{"id": "17080461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17080461", "title": "1938 Constitution of Romania", "text": "1938 Constitution of Romania\n\nThe 1938 Constitution of Romania was the fundamental law of Romania from the time of its adoption until 1940. It formed the legal basis for the royal dictatorship of King Carol II.\n\nCarol engineered a self-coup on February 10 and seized emergency powers. Soon afterward university professor Istrate Micescu began working on a new constitution, based on suggestions from the King. Micescu's draft was made public on February 20. Four days later, voters were obliged to appear before their local election bureaus and vote verbally (“yes” or “no”) on the charter. Of 4,303,064 who voted, 4,297,581 (99.87%) approved with only 5,483 (0.13%) voting against; silence was deemed to be approval. The constitution was promulgated on February 27 and published in \"Monitorul Oficial\" the next day.\n\nThe document, comprising eight titles and 100 articles, effectively codified Carol's emergency powers, turning his reign into a legal dictatorship. It abandoned the principle of separation of powers in favour of royal supremacy. The rights and freedoms codified in the 1923 Constitution were also swept away, at least in practice, by provisions that banned \"revolutionary propaganda.\" The King exercised legislative power through a corporatist Parliament, and exercised executive power through a government that he appointed and dismissed without parliamentary involvement. He could dissolve Parliament at any time and rule by decree, and was the sole person empowered to amend the Constitution.\n\nAs with the 1923 Constitution, Parliament was bicameral. The lower house, the Assembly of Deputies, was to be elected every six years and composed of members of the following professional categories: agriculture and manual labour; industry and commerce; intellectual occupations. Deputies were elected in single-member districts, by secret and compulsory ballot; districts were drawn so as to assure adequate representation based on voters’ professions. The upper house, the Senate, was composed of members appointed by the King, members by right and members elected in single districts (in the same manner as Assembly members). The proportion of appointed and elected members was equal, while senators by right had to meet the same conditions as set out in the 1923 Constitution. Appointed and elected senators had nine-year terms, while one-third of senators’ terms were renewed every three years. In December, the National Renaissance Front was formed as the only legally permitted party.\nKing Carol suspended the constitution on September 5, 1940, and parliament was dissolved. Through a decree signed that day, titled “For the investment with full powers of the president of the Council of Ministers and the restriction of royal prerogatives”, the king transferred his authoritarian powers to General Ion Antonescu, who did not convene a parliament and ruled the country by decree until he was ousted on August 23, 1944. After this date, a constitutional and transitional regime was established until a Constituent Assembly could meet to draft a new constitution, until which time the provisions of the 1866 and 1923 constitutions were applied. On July 15, 1946, the Petru Groza government issued a decree that bore a constitutional character; this document abolished the Senate and established a unicameral system (the Assembly of Deputies) and granted universal suffrage to all citizens over 21, including women.\n\nOn December 30, 1947, after King Michael’s forced abdication, Parliament adopted a constitutional law that proclaimed the Romanian People’s Republic and abrogated “the Constitution of 1866 as modified on 29 March 1923 and 1 September 1944”. Until the 1948 Constitution was adopted, legislative power was in the hands of the Assembly of Deputies that met following the 1946 elections, while the executive was composed of a five-member presidium elected by the Assembly: Constantin Ion Parhon, Mihail Sadoveanu, Ştefan Voitec, Ion Niculi and Gheorghe Stere.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27629438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27629438", "title": "AOL Seed", "text": "AOL Seed\n\nAOL Seed was an open content submission website and platform operated by AOL from 2009 to 2012, when it was closed. Writers and photographers were able to submit their work, and then get paid for each work submitted. The work was then circulated throughout AOL's network of websites . It was run by Saul Hansell, a former technology reporter for \"The New York Times\".\n\nAOL Seed has been compared to Associated Content, a website with a similar model, now owned by Yahoo. The platform was part of AOL's strategy of positioning itself as an online news and information company. After AOL acquired the Huffington Post in 2011, Seed was no longer core to this strategy.\n\n"}
{"id": "236971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236971", "title": "Adams–Onís Treaty", "text": "Adams–Onís Treaty\n\nThe Adams-Onís Treaty of 1819, also known as the Transcontinental Treaty, the Florida Purchase Treaty, or the Florida Treaty, was a treaty between the United States and Spain in 1819 that ceded Florida to the U.S. and defined the boundary between the U.S. and New Spain. It settled a standing border dispute between the two countries and was considered a triumph of American diplomacy. It came in the midst of increasing tensions related to Spain's territorial boundaries in North America against the United States and Great Britain in the aftermath of the American Revolution; it also came during the Latin American wars of independence. Florida had become a burden to Spain, which could not afford to send settlers or garrisons. It decided to cede the territory to the United States through the Adams–Onís Treaty in exchange for settling the boundary dispute along the Sabine River in Spanish Texas. The treaty established the boundary of U.S. territory and claims through the Rocky Mountains and west to the Pacific Ocean, in exchange for the U.S. paying residents' claims against the Spanish government up to a total of $5,000,000 and relinquishing the US claims on parts of Spanish Texas west of the Sabine River and other Spanish areas, under the terms of the Louisiana Purchase.\n\nThe treaty remained in full effect for only 183 days: from February 22, 1821, to August 24, 1821, when Spanish military officials signed the Treaty of Córdoba acknowledging the independence of Mexico; Spain repudiated that treaty, but Mexico effectively took control of Spain's former colony. The Treaty of Limits, signed in 1828 and effective in 1832, recognized the border defined by the Adams–Onís Treaty as the boundary between the United States and Mexico.\n\nThe Treaty was negotiated by John Quincy Adams, the Secretary of State under U.S. President James Monroe, and the Spanish \"minister plenipotentiary\" (diplomatic envoy) Luis de Onís y González-Vara, during the reign of King Ferdinand VII.\n\nSpain had long rejected repeated American efforts to purchase Florida. But by 1818, Spain was facing a troubling colonial situation in which the cession of Florida made sense. Spain had been exhausted by the Peninsular War (1807–1814) against Napoleon in Europe and needed to rebuild its credibility and presence in its colonies. Revolutionaries in Central America and South America were beginning to demand independence. Spain was unwilling to invest further in Florida, encroached on by American settlers, and it worried about the border between New Spain (a large area including today's Mexico, Central America, and much of the current US Western States) and the United States. With minor military presence in Florida, Spain was not able to restrain the Seminole warriors who routinely crossed the border and raided American villages and farms, as well as protected southern slave refugees from slave owners and traders of the southern United States.\n\nBy 1819, Spain was forced to negotiate, as it was losing hold on its American empire, with its western territories primed to revolt. While fighting escaped African-American slaves, outlaws, and Native Americans in U.S.-controlled Georgia during the First Seminole War, American General Andrew Jackson had pursued them into Spanish Florida. He built Fort Scott, at the southern border of Georgia (i.e., the U.S.), and used it to destroy the Negro Fort in northwest Florida, whose existence was perceived as an intolerable disruptive risk by Georgia plantation owners.\n\nTo stop the Seminole based in East Florida from raiding Georgia settlements and offering havens for runaway slaves, the U.S. Army led increasingly frequent incursions into Spanish territory. This included the 1817–1818 campaign by Andrew Jackson that became known as the First Seminole War, after which the U.S. effectively seized control of Northeastern Florida; albeit for purposes of lawful government and administration (in the state of Georgia); but not for the outright annexation of territory for Georgia; for additional US Territory; or, for the creation of another U.S. state.\n\nAdams said the U.S. had to take control because Florida (along the border of Georgia & Alabama Territory) had become \"a derelict open to the occupancy of every enemy, civilized or savage, of the United States, and serving no other earthly purpose than as a post of annoyance to them.\" Spain asked for British intervention, but London declined to assist Spain in the negotiations. Some of President Monroe's cabinet demanded Jackson's immediate dismissal for invading Florida, but Adams realized that his success had given the U.S. a favorable diplomatic position. Adams was able to negotiate very favorable terms.\n\nIn 1521, the Spanish Empire created the \"Virreinato de Nueva España\" (Viceroyalty of New Spain) to govern its conquests in the Caribbean, North America, and later the Pacific Ocean. In 1682, La Salle claimed La Louisiane for France. For the Spanish Empire, this was an intrusion into the northeastern frontier of Nueva España. In 1691, Spain created the Province of Tejas in Nueva España in an attempt to inhibit French settlement west of the Mississippi River. Fearing the loss of his American territories in the Seven Years' War, King Louis XV of France ceded \"La Louisiane\" to King Charles III of Spain with the secret Treaty of Fontainebleau in 1762. The Treaty of Paris of 1763 split \"La Louisiane\" with the portion east of the Mississippi River becoming a part of British North America and the portion west of the river becoming the District of Luisiana of Nueva España. This eliminated the French threat to Nueva España, and the Spanish provinces of Luisiana, Tejas, and Santa Fe de Nuevo México coexisted with only loosely defined borders. In 1800, French First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte forced King Charles IV of Spain to cede Luisiana to France with the secret Third Treaty of San Ildefonso. Spain continued to administer Luisiana until 1802, when Spain publicly transferred the district to France. The following year, Napoleon sold La Louisiane to the United States to raise money for his military campaigns.\n\nThe United States and the Spanish Empire disagreed over the territorial boundaries of the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. The United States maintained the claim of France that Louisiana included the Mississippi River and \"all lands whose waters flow to it.\" To the west of New Orleans, the United States assumed the French claim to all land east and north of the Sabine River. Spain maintained that all land west of the Calcasieu River and south of the Arkansas River belonged to Tejas and Santa Fe de Nuevo México (see #New Spain.)\n\nThe United Kingdom claimed the region west of the Continental Divide between the undefined borders of Alta California and Russian Alaska on the basis of (1) the third voyage of James Cook in 1778, (2) the Vancouver Expedition in 1791–1795, (3) the solo journey of Alexander Mackenzie to the North Bentinck Arm in 1792–1793, and (4) the exploration of David Thompson in 1807–1812. The Third Nootka Convention of 1794 called for the joint and exclusive British–Spanish exploitation of the region.\n\nThe United States claimed essentially the same region on the basis of (1) the voyage of Robert Gray up the Columbia River in 1792, (2) the United States Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804–1806, and (3) the establishment of Fort Astoria on the Columbia River in 1811. On 20 October 1818, the Anglo-American Convention of 1818 was signed setting the border between British North America and the United States east of the Continental Divide along the 49th parallel north and calling for joint Anglo-American occupancy west of the Great Divide. The Anglo-American Convention ignored the Nootka Convention of 1794 which gave Spain joint rights in the region. The Convention also ignored Russian settlements in the region. The United States referred to this region as the Oregon Country, while the United Kingdom referred to the region as the Columbia District.\n\nOn 16 July 1741, the crew of the Imperial Russian Navy ship \"Saint Peter\" (\"Апостол Пётр\"), captained by Vitus Bering, sighted Mount Saint Elias, the fourth-highest summit in North America. They became the first Europeans to land in northwestern North America. The Russian fur trade soon followed the discovery. By 1812, the Russian Empire claimed Alaska and the Pacific Coast of North America as far south as the Russian settlement of Fortress Ross, only northwest of the Spain's Presidio Real de San Francisco.\n\nThe Spanish Empire claimed all lands west of the Continental Divide throughout the Americas. Between 1774 and 1779, King Charles III of Spain ordered three naval expeditions north along the Pacific Coast to assert Spain's territorial claims. In July 1774, Juan José Pérez Hernández reached latitude 54°40′ north off the northwestern tip of Langara Island before being forced to turn south. On 15 August 1775, Juan Francisco de la Bodega y Quadra reached the latitude 59°0′ before returning south. On 23 July 1779, Ignacio de Arteaga y Bazán and Bodega y Quadra reached Puerto de Santiago on Isla de la Magdalena (now Port Etches on Hinchinbrook Island) where they held a formal possession ceremony commemorating Saint James, the patron saint of Spain. This marked the northernmost Spanish exploration in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nBetween 1788 and 1793, Spain launched several more expeditions north of Alta California. On 24 June 1789, Esteban José Martínez Fernández y Martínez de la Sierra established the Spanish colony of Santa Cruz de Nuca on the northwest coast of Vancouver Island. Asserting Spain's claim of exclusive sovereignty and navigation rights, Martínez seized several ships in Nootka Sound provoking the Nootka Crisis with the British Empire. In negotiations to resolve the crisis, Spain claimed that its Nootka Territory extended north from Alta California to the 61st parallel north and from the Continental Divide west to the 147th meridian west. On 11 January 1794, the Spanish Empire and the British Empire signed the Third Nootka Convention which called for the abandonment of all permanent settlements on Nootka Sound. Santa Cruz de Nuca was formally abandoned on 28 March 1795. The Convention also called for joint and exclusive British–Spanish exploitation of the Nootka Territory. On 19 August 1796, the Spanish Empire joined the French First Republic in war against the British Empire with the signing of the Second Treaty of San Ildefonso, thus ending Spanish and British cooperation in the Americas.\n\nEast of the Continental Divide, the Spanish Empire claimed all land south of the Arkansas River that was west of the Medina River and all land south of the Red River that was west of the Calcasieu River. The vast disputed region between the territorial claims of the United States and Spain was occupied primarily by native peoples with very few traders of either Spain or the United States. In the south, the disputed region between the Calcasieu River and the Sabine River encompassed Los Adaes, the first capital of Spanish Texas. The region between the Calcasieu and Sabine rivers become a lawless no man's land. The United States saw great potential in these western lands, and hoped to settle their borders. Spain, seeing the end of New Spain, hoped to employ its territorial claims before it would be forced to grant Mexico its independence (later in 1821). Spain hoped to regain much of its territory after the regional demands for independence subsided.\n\nThe treaty, consisting of 16 articles was signed in Adams' State Department office at Washington, on February 22, 1819, by John Quincy Adams, U.S. Secretary of State, and Luis de Onís, Spanish minister. Ratification was postponed for two years, because Spain wanted to use the treaty as an incentive to keep the United States from giving diplomatic support to the revolutionaries in South America. As soon as the treaty was signed, the U.S. Senate ratified unanimously; but because of Spain's stalling, a new ratification was necessary and this time there were objections. Henry Clay and other Western spokesmen demanded that Spain also give up Texas. This proposal was defeated by the Senate, which ratified the treaty a second time on February 19, 1821, following ratification by Spain on October 24, 1820. Ratifications were exchanged three days later and the treaty was proclaimed on February 22, 1821, two years after the signing.\n\nThe Treaty closed the first era of United States expansion by providing for the cession of East Florida under Article 2; the abandonment of the controversy over West Florida under Article 2 (a portion of which had been seized by the United States); and the definition of a boundary with the Spanish province of Mexico, that clearly made Spanish Texas a part of Mexico, under Article 3, thus ending much of the vagueness in the boundary of the Louisiana Purchase. Spain also ceded to the U.S. its claims to the Oregon Country, under Article 3.\n\nThe U.S. did not pay Spain for Florida, but instead agreed to pay the legal claims of American citizens against Spain, to a maximum of $5 million, under Article 11. Under Article 12, Pinckney's Treaty of 1795 between the U.S. and Spain was to remain in force. Under Article 15, Spanish goods received exclusive most-favored-nation privileges in the ports at Pensacola and St. Augustine for twelve years.\n\nUnder Article 2, the U.S. received ownership of Spanish Florida (British East Florida and West Florida 1763–1783). Under Article 3, the U.S. relinquished its own claims on parts of Texas west of the Sabine River and other Spanish areas.\n\nArticle 3 of the treaty states:\nThe Boundary Line between the two Countries, West of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of the River Sabine in the Sea (), continuing North, along the Western Bank of that River, to the 32d degree of Latitude (); thence by a Line due North to the degree of Latitude, where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Nachitoches, or Red-River (), then following the course of the Rio-Roxo Westward to the degree of Longitude, 100 West from London and 23 from Washington (), then crossing the said Red-River, and running thence by a Line due North to the River Arkansas (), thence, following the Course of the Southern bank of the Arkansas to its source in Latitude, 42. North and thence by that parallel of Latitude to the South-Sea [Pacific Ocean]. The whole being as laid down in Melishe's Map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first of January 1818. But if the Source of the Arkansas River shall be found to fall North or South of Latitude 42, then the Line shall run from the said Source () due South or North, as the case may be, till it meets the said Parallel of Latitude 42 (), and thence along the said Parallel to the South Sea ().\nAt the time the treaty was signed, the course of the Sabine River, Red River, and Arkansas River had only been partially charted. Furthermore, the rivers changed course periodically. It would take many years before the location of the border would be fully determined.\n\nSouth of the 32nd parallel north, the Spanish Empire and the United States settled for the U.S. claim along the Sabine River. Between the meridians 94°2′45\" and 100° west, the parties settled on the Spanish claim along the Red River. West of the 100th meridian west, the parties settled on the Spanish claim along the Arkansas River. From the source of the Arkansas River in the Rocky Mountains, the parties settled on a border due north along that meridian (106°20′37″W) to the 42nd parallel north, thence west along the 42nd parallel to the Pacific Ocean.\n\nSpain won substantial buffer zones around its provinces of Tejas, Santa Fe de Nuevo México, and Alta California in New Spain. While the United States relinquished substantial territory east of Continental Divide, the newly defined border allowed settlement of the southwestern part of the State of Louisiana, the Territory of Arkansaw, and the Territory of Missouri.\n\nSpain relinquished all claims in the Americas north of the 42nd parallel north. This was a historic retreat in its 327-year pursuit of lands in the Americas. The previous Anglo-American Convention of 1818 meant that both the United States and the British Empire could settle land north of the 42nd parallel and west of the Continental Divide. The United States now had a firm foothold on the Pacific Coast and could commence settlement of the jointly occupied Oregon Country (known as the Columbia District to the rival United Kingdom). The Russian Empire also claimed this entire region as part of Russian America.\n\nFor the United States, this Treaty (and the Treaty of 1818 with Britain agreeing to joint occupancy of the Pacific Northwest) meant that its claimed territory now extended far west from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean. For Spain, it meant that it kept its colony of Texas and also kept a buffer zone between its colonies in California and New Mexico and the U.S. territories. Many historians consider the Treaty to be a great achievement for the U.S., as time validated Adams's vision that it would allow the U.S. to open trade with the Orient across the Pacific.\n\nInformally this new border has been called the \"Step Boundary,\" although the step-like shape of the boundary was not apparent for several decades—the source of the Arkansas, believed to be near the 42nd parallel north, was not known until John C. Frémont located it in the 1840s, hundreds of miles south of the 42nd parallel.\n\nWashington set up a commission, 1821 to 1824, that handled American claims against Spain. Many notable lawyers, including Daniel Webster and William Wirt, represented claimants before the commission. During its term, the commission examined 1,859 claims arising from over 720 spoliation incidents, and distributed the $5 million in a basically fair manner.\nThe treaty reduced tensions with Spain (and after 1821 Mexico), and allowed budget cutters in Congress to reduce the army budget and reject the plans to modernize and expand the army proposed by Secretary of War John C. Calhoun.\n\nThe treaty was honored by both sides, although inaccurate maps from the treaty meant that the boundary between Texas and Oklahoma remained unclear for most of the 19th century. The American boundary was expanded in 1848 by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo with Mexico.\n\nThe treaty was ratified by Spain in 1820, and by the United States in 1821 (during the time that Spain and Mexico were engaged in the prolonged Mexican War of Independence). Spain finally recognized the independence of Mexico with the Treaty of Córdoba signed on August 24, 1821. While Mexico was not initially a party to the Adams–Onís Treaty, in 1831 Mexico ratified the treaty by agreeing to the 1828 Treaty of Limits with the U.S.\n\nWith the Russo-American Treaty of 1824, the Russian Empire ceded its claims south of parallel 54°40′ north to the United States. With the Treaty of Saint Petersburg in 1825, Russia set the southern border of Alaska on the same parallel in exchange for the Russian right to trade south of that border and the British right to navigate north of that border. This set the absolute limits of the Oregon Country/Columbia District between the 42nd parallel north and the parallel 54°40′ north west of the Continental Divide.\n\nBy the mid-1830s, a controversy developed regarding the border with Texas, during which the United States demonstrated that the Sabine and Neches rivers had been switched on maps, moving the frontier in favor of Mexico. As a consequence, the eastern boundary of Texas was not firmly established until the independence of the Republic of Texas in 1836. It was not agreed upon by the United States and Mexico until the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, which concluded the Mexican–American War. That treaty also formalized the cession by Mexico of Alta California and today's American Southwest, except for the territory of the later Gadsden Purchase of 1854.\n\nAnother dispute occurred after Texas joined the Union. The treaty stated that the boundary between the French claims on the north and the Spanish claims on the south was Rio Roxo de Natchitoches (Red River) until it reached the 100th meridian, as noted on the John Melish map of 1818. But, the 100th meridian on the Melish map was marked some east of the true 100th meridian, and the Red River forked about east of the 100th meridian. Texas claimed the land south of the North Fork, and the United States claimed the land north of the South Fork (later called the Prairie Dog Town Fork Red River). In 1860 Texas organized the area as Greer County. The matter was not settled until a in 1896 upheld federal claims to the territory, after which it was added to the Oklahoma Territory.\n\nThe treaty gave rise to a later border dispute between the states of Oregon and California, which remains unresolved. Upon statehood in 1850, California established the 42nd parallel as its constitutional de jure border as it had existed since 1819 when the territory was part of Spanish Mexico. In an 1868–1870 border survey following the admission of Oregon as a state, errors were made in demarcating and marking the Oregon-California border, creating a dispute that continues to this day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1625263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625263", "title": "Amalgamated Society of Engineers v Adelaide Steamship Co Ltd", "text": "Amalgamated Society of Engineers v Adelaide Steamship Co Ltd\n\nAmalgamated Society of Engineers v Adelaide Steamship Co Ltd, commonly known as the Engineers case, was a landmark decision by the High Court of Australia on 31 August 1920. The immediate issue concerned the Commonwealth's power under s51(xxxv) of the Constitution but the Court did not confine itself to that question, using the opportunity to roam broadly over constitutional interpretation.\n\nWidely regarded as one of the most important cases ever decided by the High Court of Australia, it swept away the earlier doctrines of implied intergovernmental immunities and reserved State powers, thus paving the way for fundamental changes in the nature of federalism in Australia.\n\nThe \"Engineers case\" arose out of a claim lodged by a union of engineers in the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration for an award relating to 844 employers across Australia. In Western Australia, the employers included three governmental employers. The question was whether a Commonwealth law made under the \"conciliation and arbitration\" power regarding industrial disputes, section 51(xxxv), could authorise the making of an award binding the three employers. The case came before the Full Court on a case stated under the \"Judiciary Act\". \n\nThe three original judges of the High Court, Griffith CJ, Barton and O'Connor JJ, and the two new judges appointed in 1906, Isaacs and Higgins JJ, had all been leading participants in the Constitutional Conventions and all are properly seen as among the framers of the Constitution, The Court described the Constitution as \"framed in Australia by Australians, and for the use of the Australian people\", thus when the Court spoke of what was framers of the Constitution knew, intended or expected, they were referring to their personal experience in that process, and not to the intention or knowledge of the Imperial Parliament in passing the \"Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act\" 1900. \n\nIn \"Webb v Outtrim\", the Privy Council criticised the High Court's approach to the interpretation of the constitution, holding that the relevant question was not the intention of the Australians who framed the Constitution, but rather what the British Parliament had in mind when it passed the \"Constitution Act\". Despite the criticism, and the challenge by the new appointments to the Court from 1906, the original members of the High Court maintained and continued their approach to constitutional interpretation.\n\nThe original High Court tended to employ the US jurisprudence governing intergovernmental immunity, expressing it as an implied immunity of instrumentalities, where neither the Commonwealth nor State governments could be affected by the laws of the other. This was first expressed in \"D'Emden v Pedder\", \"Deakin v Webb\", and the \"Railway Servants' case\". As Griffith CJ declared in the first case:\n\nIn considering the respective powers of the Commonwealth and of the States it is essential to bear in mind that each is, within the ambit of its authority, a sovereign State, subject only to the restrictions imposed by the Imperial connection and to the provisions of the Constitution, either expressed or necessarily implied... a right of sovereignty subject to extrinsic control is a contradiction in terms.\n\nThe reserved powers doctrine was a principle used in the interpretation of the Constitution that emphasised the context of the Constitution, drawing on principles of federalism, what the Court saw as the compact between the newly formed Commonwealth and the former colonies, particularly the compromises that informed the text of the constitution. The doctrine involved a restrictive approach to the interpretation of the specific powers of the Federal Parliament to preserve the powers that were intended to be left to the States.\n\nThe appointment or departure of a judge from the High Court can change the dynamics within the Court. From 1906 to 1913 there had been 5 appointments, and the death of O'Connor J in 1912. These changes did not however generally change the approach of the High Court. The first sign of significant change was in the 1919 \"Municipalities Case\" where it was held that municipal corporations responsible for the making, maintenance, control and lighting of public streets were not State instrumentalities.\n\nMore dramatic consequences flowed, however, from the retirement of Griffith CJ in 1919, the death of Barton J in 1920 and their replacement by Knox CJ and Starke J. The change was described as the departure of statesmen, who interpreted the Constitution as a political compact and their replacement by legalists and nationalists, who interpreted it as a legal document.\n\nThe Engineers were represented by Robert Menzies, then a junior barrister. His account of the hearing in Melbourne on 24 May 1920 before the High Court is that he argued that the Government sawmills in Western Australia were not State instrumentalities as they were trading rather than Government enterprises. Menzies records Starke J as describing the argument as nonsense and says\nI, in what I later realized to be an inspired moment, replied: 'Sir, I quite agree.' 'Well', intervened the Chief Justice, Chief Justice Knox, never the most genial of interrogators, 'why are you putting an argument which you admit is nonsense?' 'Because' ... 'I am compelled by the earlier decisions of this Court. If your Honours will permit me to question all or any of these earlier decisions, I will undertake to advance a sensible argument.' I waited for the heavens to fall. Instead, the Chief Justice said: 'The Court will retire for a few minutes.' And when they came back, he said, 'This case will be adjourned for argument at Sydney. Each government will be notified so that it may apply to intervene. Counsel will be at liberty to challenge any earlier decision of this Court!' \n\nWriting in 1995, Brennan CJ had access to the notebooks of both Knox CJ and Isaacs J, from which he concluded that \"It seems quite clear that Menzies lit the fuse in Melbourne, though the main charge for exploding the notion of reciprocal supremacy seems to have been prepared by Isaacs and Rich JJ. in the \"Municipalities Case\". Yet it was Leverrier's, rather than Menzies' advocacy which seems to have had the greatest impact\".\n\nThe joint majority judgment of Knox CJ, Isaacs, Rich & Starke JJ was delivered by Isaacs J and its authorship is commonly attributed to him based on its style which was long, rhetorical and polemic. Higgins J wrote a separate opinion but came to a similar conclusion. Gavan Duffy J dissented.\n\nThe joint majority opinion of the Court reviewed the jurisprudence of the Griffith Court and declared:\n\nThe more the decisions are examined, and compared with each other and with the Constitution itself, the more evident it becomes that no clear principle can account for them. They are sometimes at variance with the natural meaning of the text of the Constitution; some are irreconcilable with others, and some are individually rested on reasons not founded on the words of the Constitution or on any recognized principle of the common law underlying the expressed terms of the Constitution, but on implication drawn from what is called the principle of 'necessity', that being itself referable to no more definite standard than the personal opinion of the Judge who declares it.\n\nThe judgment then returned to first principles on how the Constitution is to be interpreted. The use of American precedent was rejected in favour of applying the settled rules of construction that gave primacy to the text of the Constitution and anchored its interpretation to its express words.\n\nSome \"reservations\" were made about State prerogatives and special Commonwealth powers (like over taxation); the reservations eventually became subsumed within some general intergovernmental immunity rules to emerge as the \"Melbourne Corporation\" doctrine.\n\nThe Court considered its earlier decision in \"D'Emden v Pedder\", which had been the foundation case for the original intergovernmental immunities doctrine. It has been said that the \"Engineers case\" attacks the reasoning in D'Emden, but rationalises the conclusion. A later case (\"Attorney-General for Queensland v Attorney-General for the Commonwealth\") that applied \"D'Emden\" was attacked as resting on opinions \"as to hopes and expectations respecting vague external conditions\".\n\nThe joint majority judgment then went on to establish that the Crown in its various capacities is bound by the Constitution. The power of the Commonwealth to bind the States was seen as an aspect of the general conclusion. Its reasoning invoked the notion of the one and indivisible Crown, which is no longer part of Australian jurisprudence, but that conclusion is capable of being reached without such a notion.\n\nPassages of the joint majority judgment discuss the paramountcy of Commonwealth law, which foreshadow the later expansion of Constitution s109 inconsistency doctrine in \"Clyde Engineering Co Ltd v Cowburn\": The language of the \"D'Emden v Pedder\" non-interference principle lives on in the second (\"rights impairment\") test of inconsistency.\n\nFormer Chief Justice of Australia Sir Anthony Mason has written:\n\nThe combination of literal interpretation and a broad construction of Commonwealth powers led to the Commonwealth assuming a dominant position in the Australian federation vis-a-vis the states. The \"Engineers case\" ushered in a period of literal interpretation of the Constitution. Literal interpretation and legalism (of which Sir John Latham was the chief exponent) were characteristic of the Court's constitutional interpretation for the greater part of the 20th century.\n\nThe decision has had its critics. In 1937, R.T.E. Latham wrote:\nIt cut off Australian constitutional law from American precedents, a copious source of thoroughly relevant learning, in favour of crabbed English rules of statutory interpretation, which are one of the sorriest features of English law, and are... particularly unsuited to the interpretation of a rigid Constitution... The fundamental criticism of the decision is that its real ground is nowhere stated in the majority judgment.\n\nOn the question of the use of American and other foreign precedents, Mason wrote:\n\nBefore the \"Engineers case\", the Court made considerable use of United States authorities. Following the \"Engineers case\", references to United States authority were much less frequent. The majority remarked: \"American authorities... are not a secure basis on which to build fundamentally with respect to our own Constitution [but] in secondary... matters they may... afford considerable light and assistance.\"Much later, in the 1980s and the 1990s, the Court made extensive use of foreign authorities and comparative law. This use of foreign precedents was associated with the demise of the Privy Council appeal and the Court's recognition of its responsibility to declare the law for Australia.\n\nDespite the case, doctrine can be based on an implication from the text or structure of the Constitution. Sir Owen Dixon, in particular, was critical of any such overblown reading of the \"Engineers case\" in this oft-quoted passage: \"The prima-facie rule is that a power to legislate with respect to a given subject enables the Parliament to make laws which, upon that subject, affect the operations of the States and their agencies. That, as I have pointed out more than once, is the effect of the Engineers case stripped of embellishment and reduced to the form of a legal proposition.\" Earlier, he had written: \"We should avoid pedantic and narrow constructions in dealing with an instrument of government and I do not see why we should be fearful about making implications.\"\n\nWriting in 1971, Windeyer J made the following assessment of the \"Engineers case\":\n\nThe Colonies which in 1901 became States in the new Commonwealth were not before then sovereign bodies in any strict legal sense; and certainly the Constitution did not make them so. They were self-governing colonies which, when the Commonwealth came into existence as a new Dominion of the Crown, lost some of their former powers and gained no new powers. They became components of a federation, the Commonwealth of Australia. It became a nation. Its nationhood was in the course of time to be consolidated in war, by economic and commercial integration, by the unifying influence of federal law, by the decline of dependence upon British naval and military power and by a recognition and acceptance of external interests and obligations. With these developments the position of the Commonwealth, the federal government, has waxed; and that of the States has waned. In law that is a result of the paramount position of the Commonwealth Parliament in matters of concurrent power. And this legal supremacy has been reinforced in fact by financial dominance. That the Commonwealth would, as time went on, enter progressively, directly or indirectly, into fields that had formerly been occupied by the States, was from an early date seen as likely to occur. This was greatly aided after the decision in the \"Engineers case\", which diverted the flow of constitutional law into new channels. I have never thought it right to regard the discarding of the doctrine of the implied immunity of the States and other results of the \"Engineers case\" as the correction of antecedent errors or as the uprooting of heresy. To return today to the discarded theories would indeed be an error and the adoption of a heresy. But that is because in 1920 the Constitution was read in a new light, a light reflected from events that had, over twenty years, led to a growing realization that Australians were now one people and Australia one country and that national laws might meet national needs. For lawyers the abandonment of old interpretations of the limits of constitutional powers was readily acceptable. It meant only insistence on rules of statutory interpretation to which they were well accustomed. But reading the instrument in this light does not to my mind mean that the original judges of the High Court were wrong in their understanding of what at the time of federation was believed to be the effect of the Constitution and in reading it accordingly. As I see it the Engineers case, looked at as an event in legal and constitutional history, was a consequence of developments that had occurred outside the law courts as well as a cause of further developments there. That is not surprising for the Constitution is not an ordinary statute: it is a fundamental law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "472063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472063", "title": "Amendment", "text": "Amendment\n\nAn amendment is a formal or official change made to a law, contract, constitution, or other legal document. It is based on the verb to amend, which means to change for better. Amendments can add, remove, or update parts of these agreements. They are often used when it is better to change the document than to write a new one.\n\nContracts are often amended when the market changes. For example, a contract to deliver something to a customer once a month can be amended if the customer wants it delivered once a week. Usually\nContracts also are categorized for their promotion in a nation, such as the Treaty of Versailles.\n\nConstitutions are often amended when people change their minds about what the government should do. Some of the most famous constitutional amendments are the First Amendment to the United States Constitution which added the freedom of speech, religion, press, and protest, the third Amendment to the Constitution of Ireland, which let Ireland join the European Union, and the amendment of the German constitution as part of the German reunification process in 1990. Constitutional amendments in some countries must be approved by both the parliament or legislature and a referendum, a vote by all citizens in a country.\n\nIn parliamentary procedure, a motion is a proposal to do something. The wording of such a proposal could be changed using the motion to amend. Amendments can remove words, add words, or change words in motions. All main motions and some secondary motions can be amended. An amendment can be amended. However, an amendment to an amendment of an amendment is not allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "13834732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13834732", "title": "Amortization (tax law)", "text": "Amortization (tax law)\n\nIn tax law, amortization refers to the cost recovery system for intangible property. Although the theory behind cost recovery deductions of amortization is to deduct from basis in a systematic manner over an asset's estimated useful economic life so as to reflect its consumption, expiration, obsolescence or other decline in value as a result of use or the passage of time, many times a perfect match of income and deductions does not occur for policy reasons. \n\nA corresponding concept for tangible assets is depreciation. Methodologies for allocating amortization to each tax period are generally the same as for depreciation. However, many intangible assets such as goodwill or certain brands may be deemed to have an indefinite useful life, or “self-created” and are therefore not subject to amortization.\n\nThe United States Congress gives taxpayers larger deductions in the early years of an asset’s useful life.\nIntangible property which is subject to amortization is described in 26 U.S.C. §§ 197(c)(1) and 197(d) and must be property held either for use in a trade, business, or for the production of income. Before 1993, the United States Tax Code did not contain provisions for cost recovery of intangible assets; rather, the intangible assets were depreciated under the current provisions for depreciation of tangible assets, 26 U.S.C. §§ 167 and 168. However, the problem before 1993 was that many intangible assets did not meet the burdensome requirements of §§ 167 and 168 because intangible assets can not necessarily be subject to “wear and tear”. This led to taxpayers having the incentive to ignore any basis in the intangible asset until it was sold.\n\nUnder §197 most acquired intangible assets are to be amortized ratably over a fifteen-year period. This is not the best treatment of an intangible whose actual life is much shorter than fifteen years. Furthermore, if an intangible is not eligible for amortization under § 197, the taxpayer can depreciate the asset if there is a showing of the assets useful life.\n\nStartup expenditures are defined as investigatory expenses incurred prior to commencing a trade or business activity which would have been deducted had they been paid or incurred when the taxpayer was already engaged in the trade or business activity. \n\nUnlike other sections in the tax code which do not allow current deductions for most startup expenses, section 195 allows a taxpayer to amortize start-up expenditures over a 180-month period. The policy behind this provision is to encourage taxpayers to explore new business ventures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40891363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40891363", "title": "Assembly of Estates", "text": "Assembly of Estates\n\nThe Assembly of Estates (, ) was the legislature of Luxembourg from 1841 to 1848, and again from 1856 to 1868. \n\nThe Congress of Vienna awarded the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to the King of the Netherlands in personal union, as his private property, though it also became part of the German Confederation. King William I therefore became King-Grand Duke. He, however, administered Luxembourg essentially as part of the Netherlands, and Luxembourg was represented in the Dutch Estates-General from 1816. In the Belgian Revolution of 1830, the southern provinces of the Netherlands split off to become the Kingdom of Belgium; many Luxembourgers wished to become part of this new Belgian state as well. In the 1839 Treaty of London, however, a compromise was found: the large French-speaking part of Luxembourg became part of Belgium, as the province of Luxembourg. The remaining, German-speaking part of Luxembourg became the Grand-Duchy of today, and remained under the Dutch King. The Treaty affirmed Luxembourg as an independent and sovereign state, and the \"rump\" Luxembourg was, in any case, geographically separated from the Netherlands. Luxembourg was therefore to receive its own government institutions. \n\nThe Grand-Ducal decree of 12 October 1841 on a \"Constitution of the Estates\" created an Assembly of Estates, consisting of 34 Deputies. Its powers were highly restricted: it could not take decisions and exercised a purely consultative role alongside the sovereign. Very few matters required its approval, and only the Grand Duke could propose laws. The Assembly only sat for 15 days a year, and these sessions were held in secret. \n\nThe Assembly was composed of Deputies who were elected in the cantons by Electors in electoral colleges. These Electors in turn were chosen by those with the right to vote. To be able to vote, one had to be a Luxembourgish citizen, over 25 years of age, and to pay 10 guilders in taxes. Becoming an Elector was subject to similar conditions, but was open only to those paying more than 20 guilders in taxes. This meant that only 3% of the population was entitled to vote, and around 30 notables per canton then chose the Deputies. The Assembly therefore consisted mostly of large-scale landowners. Deputies were elected for renewable terms of 6 years, and every 3 years, half of the Assembly was up for (re-)election. \n\nUnder the influence of the revolutionary democratic movements in France and the rest of Europe in 1848, the Constituent Assembly wrote a new Constitution for Luxembourg. This introduced a constitutional monarchy, and gave the legislature, now called the Chamber of Deputies, enhanced powers. It was now able to propose and amend laws, vote on the budget, and launch inquiries. The government became accountable to the legislature, whose sessions were now held publicly. \n\nThe period of 1856-1868 was an interlude, and saw a brief return to authoritarianism. In the Luxembourg Coup of 1856, the King-Grand Duke William III replaced the liberal constitution of 1848 with a new one: the legislature was renamed the \"Assembly of Estates\", retaining its legislative powers, but the Grand Duke was not required to approve and promulgate its laws within a specific timeframe. Taxes no longer required annual approval, and the permanent budget was re-introduced. \n\nThis state of affairs lasted until 1868. After Luxembourg had been declared independent and neutral in the Treaty of London of 1867, a compromise was found between the liberal constitution of 1848 and the authoritarian charter of 1856. The legislature was renamed the Chamber of Deputies, and recovered most of its powers lost in 1856.\n"}
{"id": "3668375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3668375", "title": "Bankruptcy Act of 1898", "text": "Bankruptcy Act of 1898\n\nThe Bankruptcy Act of 1898 (\"Nelson Act\", July 1, 1898, ch. 541, ) was the first United States Act of Congress involving bankruptcy to give companies an option of being protected from creditors. Previous attempts at federal bankruptcy laws had lasted, at most, a few years.\n\nIts popular name is a homage to the role of Senator Knute Nelson in its composition.\n\nIt was significantly amended by the Bankruptcy Act of 1938 and was superseded by the Bankruptcy Act of 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127097", "title": "Bankruptcy problem", "text": "Bankruptcy problem\n\nIn mathematical sociology, and especially game theory, the bankruptcy problem is a distribution or entitlement problem involving the allocation of a given amount of a perfectly divisible good among a group of agents. The focus is on the case where the amount is insufficient to satisfy all their demands.\n\nProblems of the bankruptcy type arise in many real life situations. The canonical example would be that of a bankrupt firm that is to be liquidated. Another example would be the division of an estate amongst several heirs, particularly when the estate cannot meet all the deceased’s commitments.\n\nThere are at least three simple methods for solving bankruptcy problems in practice, but each is deficient in one or more ways. The methods are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27896607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27896607", "title": "Barcelona Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern", "text": "Barcelona Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern\n\nThe Barcelona Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern is a multilateral treaty that was concluded at Barcelona on 20 April 1921. Its purpose is to ensure freedom of navigation in waterways (i.e. ports, rivers and artificial canals) which bear international significance. It was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 8 October 1921. It went into effect on 31 October 1922. The convention is still in force.\n\nThe convention merely reaffirmed the statute adopted the day before at a League of Nations conference held in Barcelona. Article 1 of the statute defined the term \"navigable waterways of international concern\" as any waterway that is connected to the sea and traversing through one or more sovereign states. Article 2 stated the convention shall also apply to waterways for which international commissions have been established. Article 3 obligated governments to allow free movement for in its waterways to vessels of any state whose government signed the convention. Article 4 required equal treatment for all nationalities in applying the freedom of navigation. Article 5 allowed some exceptions to the principles of freedom of navigation if a government chose to give priority to its own nationals in certain cases, conditional on the absence of any agreements to the contrary. Article 6 allowed governments to apply their rule of law in waterways under their control. Article 7 prohibited governments to levy any dues for passage in international waterways under their control, except for minimal dues necessary for the maintenance of the said above waterways. Article 8 prohibited governments from levying customs for goods passing through their territories, and stated that the principles of the Barcelona Convention and Statute on Freedom of Transit shall also apply to maritime navigation. Article 9 obligated governments to grant equal treatment to all foreign nationals in using their ports, with some exceptions. Article 10 obligated the governments controlling waterways to maintain them regularly to allow smooth navigation.\n\nArticle 11 dealt with states non signatory of the convention and their rights of use of the waterways. Article 12 stated that in case a waterway is divided between two or more states, the responsibility for the rule of law shall be divided according to territorial division of the waterway itself. Article 13 stated that previously signed agreements on navigation shall remain in force, but requested the governments involved not to implement provisions of such treaties if they conflicted with the convention. Article 14 regulated the work of international navigation commissions. Article 15 allowed exceptions in time of war. Article 16 stated that none of the statute's provisions shall conflict with obligations under the Covenant of the League of Nations. Article 17 stated the statute did not apply to war or police vessels. Article 18 prohibited governments to make navigation arrangements that were in conflict with the statute or convention. Article 19 allowed to make exceptions in times of national emergency. Article 20 allowed governments to grant greater freedom of navigation that provided for in the statute, if they chose to do so.\n\nArticle 21 allowed governments to make exceptions in implementation of freedom of navigation, in cases of part or all of their waterways were still affected by destruction caused during the First World War.\nArticle 22 provided for resolution of disputes regarding interpretation through the Permanent Court of International Justice.\nArticle 23 allowed governments to exempt from freedom of navigation waterways or parts of them passing through under-populated or otherwise problematic areas under their control.\nArticle 24 exempted waterways that are lying between two states and not being necessary for the passage into a third state that was non signatory of the convention. Article 25 stated that different arrangements shall apply in League of Nations mandated territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51552637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51552637", "title": "Boundary Treaty of 1874 between Chile and Bolivia", "text": "Boundary Treaty of 1874 between Chile and Bolivia\n\nThe Boundary Treaty of 1874 between Chile and Bolivia, also called the Treaty of Sucre, was signed in Sucre on August 6, 1874 by the Bolivian Minister of Foreign Affairs Mariano Baptista and the Chilean plenipotentiary minister Carlos Walker Martínez. It superseded the Boundary Treaty of 1866 between Chile and Bolivia and it kept the border between both countries at the 24° South parallel from the Pacific Ocean to the eastern border of Chile.\n\nThe Treaty abolished the zone of bipartite tax collection on the export dues on minerals found between parallel 23°S and 25°S, and Bolivia promised explicitly in article 4 of the Treaty not to augment the existing taxes for twenty-five years on Chilean capital and industry.\n\nTo realize its Saltpeter Monopoly, Peru tried fruitless to prevent the signing of the treaty.\n\nIn February 1878, Bolivia imposed a new tax upon saltpeter and one year later began the War of the Pacific.\n\nThe Treaty of 1874 is of capital importance in the understanding of the causes of the War, because it established the legal position that existed between both countries when that war broke\nout.\n\nThe 1866 treaty, the first boundary treaty between Bolivia and Chile, stipulated in seven articles:\n\n\nNevertheless, both countries were dissatisfied with the treaty and looked for a solution.\n\nOn 5 December 1872, after difficult talks, Bolivian and Chilean negotiators Corral and Lindsay agreed to a clarification of the treaty of 1866. The Lindsay-Corral Protocol gave Chile the right to appoint customs officers to work alongside their Bolivian counterparts in the condominium zone, stipulated that tax rates could not be modified unilaterally, confirmed Bolivian acceptance of nitrates and borax as products included in the terms of the 1866 treaty, agreed that Bolivia would make a separate account of the amount to be received for taxes not derived from the common zone, and stated that the eastern limits of the common zone would be fixed by experts of both countries, and in case of disagreement, by a third nominated by the Emperor of Brazil. This Protocol was approved by Chile in January 1873.\n\nA new grievance arose in August 1872 as Quintin Quevedo, a Bolivian diplomat, follower of Mariano Melgarejo who had been toppled as president in 1871, embarked on an expedition from Valparaiso against the Bolivian government, without any effective action of the Chilean authority, despite a warning by the Peruvian and Bolivian consulates about weapons and men on board the ships \"Maria Luisa\" and \"Paquete de Los Vilos\".\n\nPeru, which at that time enjoyed naval supremacy in South Pacific, responded with a naval demonstration in Mejillones, sending there the warships \"Huascar\" and the \"Chalaco\". Peru's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jose de la Riva Agüero, told the Chilean Government that Peru would not view with indifference the occupation of Bolivian territory by foreign forces.\n\nThe Peruvian government saw the Lindsay-Corral Protocol as an increase in the regional influence of Chile and urged Bolivia to reject it, and in fact on May 19, 1873 the Bolivian Assembly postponed approval to 1874. The Bolivian Assembly neither approved nor refused the treaty.\n\nBecause of the increasing tensions with Argentina and Peru, the Government of Chile ordered 1871 the purchase of two armored vessels, the \"Cochrane\" and the \"Blanco Encalada\", which would shift the naval balance in the South Pacific in favor of Chile, but at the end of 1874.\n\nOn February 6, 1873, Peru and Bolivia signed the secret treaty of alliance between Peru and Bolivia; the parliamentary proceedings have disappeared since then.\n\nIn Peru, which had large overseas debts, the economic situation deteriorated and the government imposed in 1873 a state control over production and sales of saltpeter. But there were also nitrate deposits in Bolivia and Chile. While the latter were not economically material, the exports from Bolivia by the Chilean \"Compañía de Salitres y Ferrocarriles de Antofagasta\" (CSFA) made Peruvian price controls impossible.\n\nThe \"Compañía de Salitres y Ferrocarriles de Antofagasta\" (CSFA) was a Chilean company, based in Valparaiso; a 29% minority share was held by the British Anthony Gibbs and Sons. From the 1860s the company had exploited the nitrate fields in Antofagasta, with a tax exemption license of the Bolivian government. The CSFA was the only competitor of Peruvian saltpeter in the international markets, and the urgent necessity to maintain the prices of saltpeter and guano brought the Peruvian government to intervene actively in the Bolivian saltpeter policy.\n\nPeruvian historian Jorge Basadre asserts that the secret treaty and the \"Estanco\" were unrelated to each other, but Hugo Pereira Plascencia has contributed several items of evidences to the contrary: in 1873 the Italian author Pietro Perolari–Malmignati cited the Peruvian interest in defending its saltpeter monopoly against the Chilean production in Bolivia as the main cause of the secret treaty, and also said that the Peruvian Foreign Minister, José de la Riva-Agüero informed the Chilean Minister in Lima, Joaquín Godoy, about negotiations with Bolivia to expand the \"estanco\" in Bolivia.\n\nAs the Peruvian Government knew from the rapprochement of Bolivia and Chile, its Chancellery took action to find some means of provoking the rupture and preventing the Chilean ships from leaving European waters, qualifying the conciliatory attitude of Walker Martinez as a blind and advising to Bolivia break the existing Treaties. Peruvian Minister of Foreign Affairs Riva Agüero wrote in August 1873 to La Torre (Peruvian Plenipotentiary in Bolivia) as follows:\n\nIn 1874, Peruvian Navy officer Miguel Grau (Commander of the Navy during the war) advised to the diplomacy of his country the internationalization of the Bolivian province of Antofagasta\n\nIn August 1874, Bolivia and Chile substituted the Treaty of 1866 with a new Treaty that kept the 24th degree parallel as the boundary between both countries but ended the Mutual Benefits Zone defined in 1866 between the 23°S and 25°S. Further, Chile relinquished its share of export taxes on minerals shipped from Bolivia, and Bolivia agreed not to raise taxes on Chilean enterprises in Bolivia for 25 years.\n\nArticle 4 of the treaty is worded:\n\nThe Treaty of 1874 suffered formidable opposition in Bolivia. The suggestions of Peru had raised the aspirations of the country to such heights that mere peace would not suffice to satisfy them. The Legislative Assembly received the Treaty with violent hostility. There was a moment in which the Government found himself impotent to dominate the current of opposition, especially with reference to Article 4. which wounded the financial policy of Peru, which aimed to monopolize the nitrate production, and among the opposing bands in Congress attempts were made to make an arrangement on the basis of the deletion of this article.\n\nOn June 1875 a complementary protocol to the 1874 treaty was signed in order to amend articles 3 and 10 and incorporate an arbitration clause.\n\nIn 1876 the Peruvian government bought the saltpeter licenses for \"El Toco\" fields in Bolivia through an intermediary, Henry Meiggs, the builder of the Peruvian railroads, but also with the involvement of Anthony Gibbs and Sons, the company that would owe Bolivia for the licenses. The picturesque agreement, as Crozier called it, about property would have long standing consequences; it was called \"Caso Squire\" in the Chilean courts after the war.\n\nIn 1876 President Pardo urged Gibbs to ensure the success of the monopoly by limiting the production of the CSFA, and in 1878, Anthony Gibbs and Sons warned the management board of the CSFA that they would get trouble with a \"neighbouring Government\" [sic] if they insisted on swamping the market with their nitrate.\n\nBolivian historian Querejazu cited George Hicks, manager of the Chilean CSFA, who knew that the highest bidder for the confiscated property of the CSFA on 14 February 1879 would be the Peruvian consul in Antofagasta.\n\nHaving surrendered its claim to the disputed territories in return for a Bolivian promise not to increase tax, Chile responded that the treaty did not allow for such a tax hike. Bolivia suspended the tax in April 1878. In November Chile proposed a mediation and cautioned that Daza's refusal to cancel the tax would force Chile to declare null the 1874 Treaty. In December 1878 Bolivia, counting in its military alliance with Peru, challenged Chile and said the tax was unrelated to the treaty and that the claim of the CSFA should be addressed in Bolivian courts, and revived the tax. When the company refused to pay the tax, Bolivia confiscated its property on 11 February and threatened to sell it on 14 February in order to liquidate the tax's debt. On 14 February 1879, Chilean forces occupied Antofagasta.\n\nPeru, bound with Bolivia by their secret treaty, tried to mediate, but on 1 March 1879 Bolivia declared war on Chile and called on Peru to activate their alliance, while Chile demanded that Peru declare its neutrality. On April 5, after Peru refused this, Chile declared war on both nations. The following day, Peru responded by acknowledging the \"casus foederis\".\n"}
{"id": "11064759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11064759", "title": "Bączkowski v Poland", "text": "Bączkowski v Poland\n\nBączkowski and Others v Poland was a European Court of Human Rights case which ruled unanimously that the banning of an LGBT pride parade in Warsaw, locally known as the Parada Równości (equality parade), in 2005 was in violation of Articles 11, 13 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Delivered on May 3, 2007, the ruling was the first which affirmed that banning LGBT pride parades goes against the right to freedom of assembly and association.\n\nIn 2005, the Mayor of Warsaw, Lech Kaczyński (later President of Poland), refused to allow a gay pride parade to take place through the city, justifying his decision by the fact that the organisers had not submitted a traffic organisation plan, that such a parade would promote a \"homosexual lifestyle\" in Warsaw, and that he is against \"propagating gay orientation\". Despite this, on 11 June 2005, approximately 2500 people marched, in defiance of the ban.\n\nOne day before the parade, on 10 June 2005, the organisers appealed to the Governor of the Mazowsze Voivodship, arguing that the city's decision had breached their right to peaceful assembly. The Governor ruled that the city's requirement of a traffic organisation plan had been unlawful and that the parade was unlawfully restricted. Despite this, further proceedings were discontinued considering that the parade had taken place on 11 June 2005.\n\nOn 16 December 2005, the organisers of the parade, headed by Tomasz Bączkowski, began a court case against the Republic of Poland at the European Court of Human Rights, alleging that their right to peaceful assembly had been breached and that they had been treated in a discriminatory manner, considering that other marches were allowed to take place on June 11. The ECHR accepted the case on 5 December 2006.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights ruled that, even though the march still took place, the fact that it was banned by the city authorities represents an infringement of freedom of assembly under Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Additionally, the ruling affirmed that:\n\nThe court also stated that Poland had violated Article 14 of the Convention, because other marches which had taken place on the same day were not subject to the same conditions as the gay rights march and were allowed to take place.\n\nFurthermore, the court ruled that Article 13 of the Convention, relating to the right to an effective remedy, had been violated in that the organisers did not have any legal procedure at their disposal which would have enabled them to appeal the decision before the date on which the march was set to be held.\n\nThe ruling was hailed by LGBT rights groups as a landmark decision for the rights of LGBT people to freedom of assembly. According to Robert Biedroń, the leader of Campaign Against Homophobia, a Polish LGBT rights organisation, the ruling represented a \"very important step towards equality for gay and lesbian people in Poland and... also in several other countries in central and eastern Europe.\"\n\nMichael Cashman, the head of the European Parliament's Intergroup on Gay and Lesbian Rights, stated that:\n\nSarah Ludford, a Liberal Democrat MEP from the United Kingdom, declared that, \"this judgement is extremely important as it is the first time that the European Court of Human Rights has ruled specifically on the question of banning Equality and Gay Pride marches. Its clarification that freedom of assembly applies fully to these events is, while fully expected, nonetheless welcome.\"\n\nNo official reaction has yet been released by the Polish authorities. However, the Secretary of State, Maciej Lopinski, stated that \"the president [Lech Kaczynski] may take further action\", and in 2007 there have been some speculation that the president of Poland may appeal against the verdict (which did not happen).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6326405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6326405", "title": "California Redemption Value", "text": "California Redemption Value\n\nCalifornia Redemption Value (CRV), also known as California Refund Value, is a regulatory fee paid on recyclable beverage containers in California. The fee was established by the California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter Reduction Act of 1986 (AB 2020, Margolin), and since 2010 the program is administered by the Cal/EPA California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) (previously administered by the California Department of Conservation, Division of Recycling). \n\nThe bottler pays CRV for beverages with aluminum, plastic, glass, and bimetal containers and anyone can receive the same amount in exchange for the container by bringing it to a recycling center. The symbol on beverage containers eligible for reimbursement is \"CA CRV\". Currently, CRV is 5 cents for containers less than and 10 cents for containers or larger. The state also allows recyclers to pay by weight, for which the state also sets a separate minimum price per pound (kg). When redeeming in quantities up to 50 containers, the consumer has the right to be paid by count on request. In larger quantities, the recycler has discretion. Recyclers have the right to refuse or offer a reduced price for contaminated materials. It is illegal to bring in out of state cans or bottles to California to recoup the CRV and violators can be charged with fraud, a felony.\n\nThe charge for California Redemption Value is similar to bottle bill deposits used in other states, but is technically a fee imposed on the distributor of the beverage. The fee tends to be passed along to the retailer and to the consumer via normal market forces. Distributors and retailers usually break out the CRV as a distinct part of the purchase price in advertising and on receipts (for example the charge for a 50-cent bottle of soda may appear on the receipt as \"45 cents plus 5 cents CRV\"). \n\nOne way the difference between CRV and a system in which the consumer pays a deposit or tax shows up is that sales tax applies to the CRV amount, if the item is subject to sales tax. If it were not part of the basic price of the product, sales tax would not apply to it. Accordingly, when the State of California raised the CRV from $.04 on 2 L bottles / $.02 cans to $.08 and $.04, respectively, then again to $.10 and $.05, respectively, it was also raising California's sales tax revenue gained on the imposed fee.\n\nOther states have similar bottle bills/deposit laws, including Connecticut, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, New York, Oregon, and Vermont.\n\nCRV is paid on the following types of beverages:\n\n\nCRV is not paid on the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23369377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23369377", "title": "Center for Transnational Legal Studies", "text": "Center for Transnational Legal Studies\n\nThe Center for Transnational Legal Studies (CTLS) is a global educational center for the study of transnational law. The Center was founded in London in October 2008 as an initiative by Georgetown University Law Center, providing educational services and student resources. It was constituted as a joint venture between ten leading law schools from around the world, each contributing faculty and students to the center. The Center's founding institutions are Georgetown University Law Center, University of Toronto, King's College London, National University of Singapore, ESADE, Fribourg University, Free University of Berlin, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, University of Torino, Melbourne Law School, and the University of São Paulo. The Center also has several affiliate institutions, including Bucerius Law School.\n\nThe CTLS facilities are located at Swan House at 37-39 High Holborn Street in London's legal quarter. Students and faculty have access to King's College Law Library and student housing at the Liberty Living Student Housing complex 'Liberty House' on St John Street. \n\nThe Center's curriculum was developed by an Academic Council of faculty from all of the founding law schools and all courses address topics in transnational or comparative law, legal theory or legal practice. designed for students intent on transnational careers. \n\nAcademics from the CTLS have also offered public lectures on international legal topics, and in addition to the Center's main academic term program, offers administrative support for the Georgetown Law summer program in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "47922714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47922714", "title": "Chief Justice of Barbados", "text": "Chief Justice of Barbados\n\nThe Chief Justice of Barbados is the head of the Supreme Court of Barbados as defined by the constitution.\n\nThe constitution of Barbados states:\n\nThe first Chief Justice of Barbados and St Lucia, Sir R Bowcher Clarke, took office on 13 December 1841. In 2011 Justice Marston Gibson was appointed the 13th incumbent.\n\n"}
{"id": "33846525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33846525", "title": "Citizenship in North Korea", "text": "Citizenship in North Korea\n\nCitizenship in North Korea is a status given to individuals recognized as North Korean by the government of the country. It is a source of shared national identity, but can also be one of contention or conflict.\n\nNorth Korea adopted a nationality law in 1963: 15 years after being founded on September 9, 1948. It has since been revised in 1995 and 1999. The nationality law of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) governs who is a citizen of the DPRK, and how one may gain or lose such citizenship. It prescribes citizenship qualifications, citizen rights, and citizen protections. While containing just 16 articles, it covers most of the basic features which can be found across modern citizenship legislation in other nations. Furthermore, North Korean nationality law incorporates anyone who resided in the country since the foundation of the DPRK. This includes varied groups due to the DPRK's annexation by Japan and the United States, occupation by the Soviet Union and final surrender to the Allies in 1945. The law assumes that people registered in North Korea became nationals of North Korea.\n\n\"Jus sanguinis\", or the \"right of blood,\" means determining citizenship through the status of a child's parents. Any child born to two North Korean nationals becomes a North Korean citizen. However, if a child is born abroad to one North Korean national and one parent of a different nationality, the citizenship is to be determined by the parents.\n\n\"Jus soli\", or the \"right of the soil,\" is better known as birthright citizenship. This type of citizenship or nationality is awarded to citizens who are born within the jurisdiction of a given state. In North Korea, birth within the country's borders does not automatically grant a child citizenship, with the exception of a child born in North Korea with \"unknown or stateless parents.\"\n\nThe process of naturalization involves formal proceedings for acquiring citizenship of a country. It is not guaranteed and can involve a wide variety of stipulations. In North Korea, the status of naturalization is unclear. It can only be granted by the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, and further specific requirements are unknown.\n\nThe government of North Korea does not recognize dual nationality. However, North Korean citizens who flee to South Korea automatically become South Korean citizens. Also, North Korean citizens who defect to South Korea and become South Korean citizens are not allowed to return to North Korea without special permission and approval from the South Korean government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1118248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118248", "title": "Communalism", "text": "Communalism\n\nCommunalism usually refers to a system that integrates communal ownership and federations of highly localized independent communities. A prominent libertarian socialist, Murray Bookchin, defines the Communalism political philosophy that he developed as \"a theory of government or a system of government in which independent communes participate in a federation\", as well as \"the principles and practice of communal ownership\". The term 'government' in this case does not imply an acceptance of a State or top-down hierarchy.\n\nThis usage of communalism appears to have emerged during the late 20th century to distinguish commune-based systems from other political movements and/or governments espousing (if not actually practicing) similar ideas. In particular, earlier communities and movements advocating such practices were often described as \"anarchist\", \"socialist\" and/or \"communist\".\n\nMany historical communities practicing utopian socialism or anarcho-communism did implement internal rules of communalist property ownership in the context of federated communalism. It is at least theoretically possible for a federation of communes to include communes which do not practice communalist rules of property, which is to say, that the overall national government may be a federation of communes, but that private property rather than communalist property is the order within each such commune. Karl Marx, often viewed as the founder of modern communism, criticized older forms, including primitive communism and/or utopian socialism, as poorly conceived and/or prone to disintegration in practice.\n\nCommunalism in the form described above is distinct from the predominant usage in South Asian forms of English: allegiance to a particular ethnic and/or religious group rather than to a broader society. As such, this usage is synonymous with sectarianism and associated with communal violence.\n\nIn this primarily religious-based community, the communist-like principle of \"Koinonia\" used by the early Christian Church as described in the \"Acts of the Apostles\" (4:32–35), which expressed the broad, general principle of \"all things in common\" (or, in some translations, \"everything in common\").\n\nCommunalistic tendencies were often present in radical Reformation-era Christian movements in Europe. (This was later argued most famously by the Marxian theorist Karl Kautsky: see, for example, \"Communism in Central Europe in the Time of the Reformation\" .)\n\nSome features of Waldensian movement and associated communes in northern Italy in the 13th and 14th centuries followed certain aspects of communal ownership.\n\nFamously, Czech Taborites (radical section of the Hussite movement) in the 15th century attempted to build a society of shared property in the city of Tábor in south Bohemia.\n\nCertain aspects and streams within the German Peasants' War in German areas of the 16th century, particularly Thomas Müntzer and the so-called Zwickau prophets had a strong social egalitarian spirit.\n\nEuropean Radical Reformation of Anabaptist and different groups of Schwarzenau Brethren started processes which later led to communal movements of Shakers , Hutterites and the Bruderhof. \n\nThe Anabaptist Münster Rebellion of 1534–1535 attempted to establish a society based on community of goods.\n\nAll of these post-Reformation attempts were led by biblical literalism in which they referred to previously mentioned passages from the Book of Acts. Radicalism of their social experiments was further heightened by chiliasm and ardent expectation of theocracy.\n\nThe Plymouth Colony was established by Separatist Pilgrims who had travelled from Europe in order to flee religious persecution and establish a religious community separate from the Church of England. The social and legal systems of the colony were tied to their religious beliefs as well as English Common Law. The presence of secular planters (\"The Strangers\") hired by the London merchant investors who funded their venture led to tension and factionalization in the fledgling settlement, especially because of the policies of land use and profit-sharing, but also in the way each group viewed workdays and holidays. This form of common ownership was the basis for the contract agreed upon by the venture and its investors. It was more akin to what we now think of as a privately held corporation, as the common ownership of property and profits was insured by the issuing of stock to the settlers and investors. It was also temporary, with a division of the common property and profits scheduled to take place after seven years.\n[I]n 1620. July 1.\nAlthough each family controlled their own home and possessions, corn was farmed on a communal plot of land with the harvest divided equally amongst the settlers. The secular planters resented having to share their harvest with families whose religious beliefs so sharply conflicted with their own and as a result shirked work and resorted to thievery, whilst the Pilgrims resented the secular planters taking days off for holidays (especially Christmas) and their frequent carousing and revelry which often left them unfit for work. This conflict resulted in a corn production which was insufficient for the needs of the settlement. Because further supplies from their investors were withheld due to a dispute of the agreed upon payments from the settlement, starvation became imminent. As a result, for the planting of 1623, each family was temporarily assigned their own plot of land to tend with the right to keep all that was harvested from that plot, whether it be sufficient or not and all other production responsibilities and the goods produced therefrom would continue to remain as was originally agreed upon.\n\nIn the mid-17th century the True Levellers, followers of Gerrard Winstanley, believed in the concept of \"levelling men's estates\" in order to create equality. They also took over common land for what they believed to be the common good.\n\nIn the 19th century the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints attempted to live a form of Christian communalism called the Law of Consecration, using organizations described as the United Order. This was established under Joseph Smith and was first practiced in Kirtland, Ohio in the early 1830s. This originally helped Latter Day Saints with settling in Ohio and was to have helped with building and sustaining entire communities in Missouri, including Independence, Adam-ondi-Ahman, and Far West. Subsequent events, including the 1838 Mormon War, made it impossible for these communities to thrive.\n\nAfter the followers of Brigham Young settled in the Utah Territory, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) began to establish a series of community cooperatives, which were collectively called the United Order of Enoch. This program was used in at least 200 LDS communities, most of them in outlying rural areas, away from the central Mormon settlements. Most of the cooperatives lasted for only two or three years before returning to a more standard economic system. One of the last United Order cooperatives was located in Orderville, which continued until an 1885 anti-polygamy law enforcement action under the Edmunds Act effectively ended it by jailing many of its leaders.\n\nThe Law of Consecration (as expressed via the LDS Church) was an attempt to base income on a families' actual needs and wants, not on their ability to produce. This was to be done through a strictly voluntary covenant; it was not deemed acceptable to establish economic equality through force (see also Agency (LDS Church)). The LDS church has never called this practice communism, instead it has formally stated that, due to matters of spirituality, the United Order and communism are materially opposite in purpose:\n\n\"Communism and all other similar isms bear no relationship whatever to the United Order. They are merely the clumsy counterfeits which Satan always devises of the Gospel plan [...]. The United Order leaves every man free to choose his own religion as his conscience directs. Communism destroys man's God-given free agency; the United Order glorifies it. Latter-day Saints cannot be true to their faith and lend aid, encouragement, or sympathy to any of these false philosophies [...].\" (Message of the First Presidency, read by J. Reuben Clark Jr., 112th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1942.)\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ, also known as the Cutlerites, are a church in the Latter Day Saint movement founded by Alpheus Cutler and headquartered in Independence, Missouri. It has operated a functioning United Order since 1913. The Church of Jesus Christ require membership in the United Order as a condition of membership in the church as The Church of Jesus Christ has reject tithing and all similar means of finance. They state that they are attempting to replicate, as far as possible, the idea of \"all things common\" as taught in the early Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.\n\nCommunalist experiments throughout history have often developed bitter animosities as the parties disputed about the exact issues underlying the confusion over definitions discussed above. The Paris Commune was one such case.\n\n\"Libertarian communalism\" is a severe and historically justified attempt to organize the political sphere fundamentally and democratically and to give it an ethical content. This is more than a political strategy. This is the desire to move from hidden or emerging democratic opportunities to a radical transformation of society, to a communitarian society focused on human needs, satisfying environmental requirements and developing a new ethic based on solidarity. This means a new definition of politics, a return to the primordial Greek meaning - the management of the community or the polis through the general meeting, on which the principal policy directions are formed, relying on reciprocity and solidarity.\n\nCommunalism as a political philosophy was first coined by the well-known libertarian socialist author and activist Murray Bookchin as a political system to complement his environmental philosophy of social ecology.\n\nWhile originally conceived as a form of social anarchism, he later developed Communalism into a separate ideology which incorporates what he saw as the most beneficial elements of left anarchism, Marxism, syndicalism, and radical ecology. Politically, Communalists advocate a stateless, classless, decentralized society consisting of a network of directly democratic citizens' assemblies in individual communities/cities organized in a confederal fashion.\n\nThis primary method used to achieve this is called libertarian municipalism which involves the establishment of face-to-face democratic institutions which are to grow and expand confederally with the goal of eventually replacing the nation-state. Unlike anarchists, Communalists are not opposed in principle to taking part in electoral politics – specifically municipal elections – as long as candidates are libertarian socialist and anti-statist in policy.\n\nStarting in the 1970s, Bookchin argued that the arena for libertarian social change should be the municipal level. In a 2001 interview he summarized his views this way: \n\n\"The overriding problem is to change the structure of society so that people gain power. The best arena to do that is the municipality — the city, town, and village — where we have an opportunity to create a face-to-face democracy.\"\n\nIn 1980 Bookchin used the term \"libertarian municipalism\", to describe a system in which libertarian institutions of directly democratic assemblies would oppose and replace the state with a confederation of free municipalities. Libertarian municipalism intends to create a situation in which the two powers — the municipal confederations and the nation-state — cannot coexist. Communalists hold that this is a method to achieve a liberated society.\n\nLibertarian municipalism is not seen merely as an effort to \"take over\" city and municipal councils to construct a more \"environmentally friendly\" government, but also an effort to transform and democratize these structures, to root them in popular assemblies, and to knit them together along confederal lines to appropriate a regional economy. Bookchin summarized this process in the saying \"democratize the republic, then radicalize the democracy\".\n\nIt is a dual power that contests the legitimacy of the existing state power. Communalists hold that such a movement should be expected to begin slowly, perhaps sporadically, in communities here and there that initially may demand only the ability to alter the structuring of society before enough interlinked confederations exist to demand the outright institutional power to replace the centralized state. The growing tension created by the emergence of municipal confederations would represent a confrontation between the state and the political realms. It is believed this confrontation can be resolved only after Communalism forms the new politics of a popular movement and ultimately captures the imagination of society at large.\n\nCommunalists see as equally important the need for confederation – the interlining of communities with one another through recallable delegates mandated by municipal citizens’ assemblies and whose sole functions are coordinative and administrative. This is similar to the system of \"nested councils\" found in participatory politics.\n\nAccording to Bookchin, \"Confederation has a long history of its own that dates back to antiquity and that surfaced as a major alternative to the nation-state. From the American Revolution through the French Revolution and the Spanish Revolution of 1936, confederalism constituted a major challenge to state centralism\". Communalism is seen to add a radically democratic dimension to the contemporary discussions of confederation (e.g. Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia) by calling for confederations not of nation-states but of municipalities and of the neighborhoods of large cities as well as towns and villages.\n\nCommunalists make a clear distinction between the concepts of \"policy\" and \"administration\". This distinction is seen as fundamental to Communalist principles.\n\nPolicy is defined by being made by a community or neighborhood assembly of free citizens; administration on the other hand, is performed by confederal councils a level up from the local assemblies which are composed of mandated, recallable delegates of wards, towns, and villages. If particular communities or neighborhoods –or a minority grouping of them– choose to go their own way to a point where human rights are violated or where ecological destruction is permitted, the majority in a local or regional confederation would have the right to prevent such practices through its confederal council. This is explained not as a denial of democracy but the assertion of a shared agreement by all to recognize civil rights and maintain the ecological integrity of a region.\n\nPolicy-making remains local, but its administration is vested in the confederal network as a whole. The confederation is intended to be a community of communities based on distinct human rights and ecological imperatives.\n\nOne of the core distinctions between left anarchism and Communalism is that Communalists are not opposed in principle to taking part in currently existing political institutions until such a time as it is deemed unnecessary. Communalists see no issues with supporting candidates or political parties in local electoral politics—especially municipal elections—as long as prospective candidates are libertarian socialist and anti-statist in policy. The particular goal of this process is to elevate Communalists (or those sympathetic to Communalism) to a position of power so as to construct face-to-face municipal assemblies to maximize direct democracy and make existing forms of representative democracy increasingly irrelevant.\n\nCommunalists are heavily critical of the market economy and capitalism. Believing that these systems destroy the environment by creating a 'grow or die' mentality and creating a large population of alienated citizens. They propose abolition of the market economy and money and replaces it with a decentralised planned economy controlled by local municipalities and cooperatives.\n\nIn such a municipal economy – confederal, interdependent, and rational by ecological, not only technological, standards – Communalists hold that the special interests that divide people today into workers, professionals, managers, capitalist owners and so on would be melded into a general interest (a \"social\" interest) in which people see themselves as citizens guided strictly by the needs of their community and region rather than by personal proclivities and vocational concerns. Here, it is hoped, citizenship would come into its own, and rational as well as ecological interpretations of the public good would supplant class and hierarchical interests.\n\nCommunalists are heavily critical of modern cities, citing urban sprawl, suburbanisation, car culture, traffic congestion, noise pollution and other negative externalities as having severe effects on the local environment and society as a whole. Communalists propose to run cities democratically and confederally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40439316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40439316", "title": "Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications", "text": "Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications\n\nThe Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications is a 1923 League of Nations anti-pornography treaty that was initially negotiated and concluded in Geneva. It was amended by a 1947 Protocol and as of 2013 has 56 state parties.\n\nThe treaty was concluded on 12 September 1923 as the International Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications and entered into force on 7 August 1924. It was intended to supplement the 1910 Agreement for the Suppression of the Circulation of Obscene Publications. By the 1923 Convention, states agreed to criminalise the production, possession, importation, exportation, trade, advertisement, or display of \"obscene writings, drawings, prints, paintings, printed matter, pictures, posters, emblems, photographs, cinematograph films or any other obscene objects\".\n\nOn 20 October 1947, a Protocol to the Convention was approved by the United Nations General Assembly as resolution 126 (II)2. On 12 November 1947, a United Nations conference at Lake Success, New York approved the Protocol and opened it for signature. One amendment that the Protocol made was dropping the word \"International\" from the name of the Convention.\n\nAs of 2013, the amended Convention has 56 state parties. The unamended Convention remains in force for one state, Zimbabwe. Denmark (1968), Germany (1974), and the Netherlands (1986, solely for the Kingdom in Europe) have denounced the Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "37009866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37009866", "title": "Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals", "text": "Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals\n\nDeferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) is an American immigration policy that allows some individuals who were brought to the United States illegally as children to receive a renewable two-year period of deferred action from deportation and become eligible for a work permit in the U.S. To be eligible for the program, recipients cannot have felonies or serious misdemeanors on their records. Unlike the proposed DREAM Act, DACA does not provide a path to citizenship for recipients, known as Dreamers. The policy, an executive branch memorandum, was announced by President Barack Obama on June 15, 2012. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) began accepting applications for the program on August 15, 2012.\n\nIn November 2014, President Obama announced his intention to expand DACA to cover additional illegal immigrants. Multiple states immediately sued to prevent the expansion which was ultimately blocked by an evenly divided Supreme Court. Under President Trump the United States Department of Homeland Security rescinded the expansion on June 16, 2017, while continuing to review the existence of the DACA program as a whole. Plans to phase out DACA were announced by the Trump Administration on September 5, 2017; implementation was put on hold for six months to allow Congress time to pass the Dream Act or some other legislative protection for Dreamers. Congress failed to act and the time extension expired on March 5, 2018, but the phase-out of DACA has been put on hold by several courts.\n\nResearch has shown that DACA increased the wages and employment status of DACA-eligible immigrants, and improved the mental health outcomes for DACA participants and their children. It also reduced the number of illegal immigrant households living in poverty. DACA has not been shown to have any major adverse impacts on the employment of native-born workers. Most economists say that DACA is a net benefit to the U.S. economy.\n\nIn August 2018, USCIS estimated there were 699,350 active DACA recipients residing in the United States. Immigration researchers estimate the population to be between 690,000 and 800,000 people.\n\nOn August 31, 2018, District Court Judge Andrew Hanen ruled that DACA is likely unconstitutional. However, he let the program remain in place as litigation proceeds.\n\nThe policy was created after acknowledgment that \"Dreamer\" students had been largely raised in the United States, and this was seen as a way to remove immigration enforcement attention from \"low priority\" individuals with good behavior. \"Dreamers\" get their name from the DREAM Act, a bill that aimed to grant legal status to young immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents. The illegal immigrant student population was rapidly increasing; approximately 65,000 illegal immigrant students graduate from U.S. high schools on a yearly basis. The vast majority of Dreamers are from Mexico.\n\nThe DREAM Act bill, which would have provided a pathway to permanent residency for illegal immigrants brought to the United States upon meeting certain qualifications, was considered by Congress in 2007. It failed to overcome a bipartisan filibuster in the Senate. It was considered again in 2011. The bill passed the House, but did not get the 60 votes needed to overcome a Republican filibuster in the Senate. In 2013, legislation had comprehensively reformed the immigration system, including allowing Dreamers permission to stay in the country, work and attend school; this passed the Senate but was not brought up for a vote in the House. The \"New York Times\" credits the failure of Congress to pass the DREAM Act bill as the driver behind Obama's decision to sign DACA.\n\nPresident Barack Obama announced this policy with a speech in the Rose Garden of the White House on June 15, 2012. The date was chosen as the 30th anniversary of \"Plyler v. Doe\", a Supreme Court decision barring public schools from charging illegal immigrant children tuition. The policy was officially established by a memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security titled \"Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children\". This policy allowed certain immigrants to escape deportation and obtain work permits for a period of two years—renewable upon good behavior. To apply, immigrants had to be younger than 31 on June 15, 2012, must have come to the U.S. when they were younger than 16, and must have lived in the U.S. since 2007. In August 2012, the Pew Research Center estimated that up to 1.7 million people were eligible.\n\nU.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) began accepting applications for the program on August 15, 2012. , USCIS had received 844,931 initial applications for DACA status, of which 741,546 (88%) were approved, 60,269 (7%) were denied, and 43,121 (5%) were pending. Over half of those accepted reside in California and Texas. According to an August 2017 survey, most current registrants (called \"Dreamers\" in a reference to the DREAM Act bill) are in their 20s, and about 80% arrived in the United States when they were 10 or younger.\n\nIn November 2014, Obama announced his intention to expand DACA to make more people eligible. However, in December 2014, Texas and 25 other states, all with Republican governors, sued the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas asking the court to enjoin implementation of both the DACA expansion and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans,(a similar program). In February 2015, Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking the expansion from going into effect while the case, \"Texas v. United States\", proceeded. After progressing through the court system, an equally divided (4–4) Supreme Court left the injunction in place, without setting any precedent.\n\nRepublican Party leaders denounced the DACA program as an abuse of executive power.\n\nNearly all Republicans in the House of Representatives (along with three Democrats) voted 224–201 to defund DACA in June 2013. Lead author of the amendment Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) stated, \"The point here is ... the President does not have the authority to waive immigration law, nor does he have the authority to create it out of thin air, and he's done both with these Morton memos in this respect.\" However, in practice Congress does not have the ability to defund DACA since the program is almost entirely funded by its own application fees rather than congressional appropriations.\n\nDACA was formally initiated by a policy memorandum sent from Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to the heads of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). The memo formally directed them to exercise their enforcement discretion on behalf of individuals who met the requirements.\n\nTo apply for DACA, eligible individuals must pay a $495 application fee, submit several forms, and produce documents showing they meet the requirements. They do not need legal representation.\n\nTo be eligible, recipients must have entered the United States before their 16th birthday and prior to June 2007, be currently in school, a high school graduate or be honorably discharged from the military, be under the age of 31 , and not have been convicted of a felony, significant misdemeanor or three other misdemeanors, or otherwise pose a threat to national security. The program does not currently provide permanent lawful status or a path to citizenship, nor does it provide eligibility for federal welfare or student aid.\n\nIn August 2012, the Migration Policy Institute estimated that as many as 1.76 million people could be eligible for DACA. Of those, 28% were under 15 and would have to wait until reaching that age to apply. In addition, roughly 20% did not meet any of the education criteria, but could become eligible by enrolling in a program before submitting their application. 74% of the eligible population was born in Mexico or Central America. Smaller proportions came from Caribbean and South America (11%), Asia (9%), and the rest of the world (6%).\n\nTo qualify for DACA, applicants must meet the following major requirements, although meeting them does not guarantee approval:\n\nTo show proof of qualification (verify these requirements), applicants must submit three forms; I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals; I-765, Application for Employment Authorization; and I-765WS Worksheet, as well as supporting documentation.\n\nIn addition to the $495 application fee, if a DACA qualifying immigrant wants to travel abroad there is an additional fee and application requirement.\n\nForm I-131 Application Type D*, with a fee of $575 needs to be submitted to USCIS.\n\nForm I-131 must also be submitted by anyone that applies for a Green Card or other residency option regardless of how they arrived upon U.S. soil.\n\nTo receive advance parole one must travel abroad for an educational, employment, or humanitarian purpose. This must be indicated on the Form I-131 as described below:\nTravel for leisure is not a valid purpose.\n\nUSCIS released the process for DACA renewals in June 2014 and directed applicants to file their documents during a 30-day window starting 150 days before the expiration of their previous DACA status. Renewing requires an additional $495 fee.\n\n, there had been 606,264 renewal cases, with 526,288 approved, 4,703 denied and 75,205 renewals pending.\n\nIn November 2014, U.S. President Barack Obama announced changes to DACA which would expand it to include illegal immigrants who entered the country prior to 2010, eliminate the requirement that applicants be younger than 31 years old, and lengthen the renewable deferral period to two years. The Pew Research Center estimated that this would increase the number of eligible people by about 330,000.\n\nHowever, in December 2014, Texas and 25 other states, all with Republican governors, sued in the District Court for the Southern District of Texas asking the court to enjoin implementation of both the DACA expansion and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (a similar program). In February 2015, Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking the expansion from going into effect while the case, \"Texas v. United States\", proceeded. After progressing through the court system, the appeals court ruled 2–1 in favor of enjoining the DACA expansion. When the Obama administration appealed to the Supreme Court, Justice Antonin Scalia's untimely death left an 8 justice court, which then ruled equally divided (4–4) for and against the injunction. Procedural rules of the Court in the case of a tie would mean that no opinion would be written, no precedent would be set by the Supreme Court in the case, and that the appellate court's ruling would stand.\n\nThe court's temporary injunction does not affect the existing DACA. Individuals may continue to come forward and request an initial grant of DACA or renewal of DACA under the guidelines established in 2012.\n\nResearch has shown that DACA increased the wages and labor force participation of DACA-eligible immigrants and reduced the number of illegal immigrant households living in poverty. Studies have also shown that DACA increased the mental health outcomes for DACA-eligible immigrants and their children. There are no known major adverse impacts from DACA on native-born workers' employment, and most economists say that DACA benefits the U.S. economy.\n\nAccording to FactCheck.org, \"there is no evidence that DACA holders are more likely to commit crimes than U.S. citizens.\" Factcheck.Org noted that \"numerous studies have found that immigrants do not commit crimes at a higher rate than non-immigrants.\"\n\nFact-checkers note that, on a large scale or in the long run, there is no reason to believe that DACA recipients have a major deleterious effect on American workers' employment chances; to the contrary, some economists say that DACA benefits the overall U.S. economy. Economists have warned that ending DACA could adversely affect the U.S. economy, and that \"most economists see immigration generally as an \"economic boon\".\" Almost all economists reject Jeff Sessions' claim that DACA \"denied jobs to hundreds of thousands of Americans by allowing those same jobs to go to illegal aliens.\" Sessions' claim is rooted in what economists call the \"lump of labor fallacy\" (i.e., the idea that there is a limit to amount of work force available in any economy).\n\nA 2016 study in the \"Journal of Public Economics\" found that DACA increased labor force participation and decreased the unemployment rate for DACA-eligible immigrants. DACA also increased the income of illegal immigrants in the bottom of the income distribution. The study estimates that DACA moved 50,000 to 75,000 unauthorized immigrants into employment. According to University of California, Davis economist Giovanni Peri, DACA consequently \"increases consumption and overall demand for U.S. services, products, and jobs where the DACA recipients live and spend. Economists have shown that highly skilled workers increase local productivity and create opportunities for the other workers too\". A 2016 study in \"Economics Letters\" found that DACA-eligible households were 38% less likely than non-eligible unauthorized immigrant households to live in poverty. Furthermore, DACA-eligible workers tend to have higher-skilled, higher-paying jobs than undocumented immigrants.\n\nAccording to one survey, 91 percent of DACA registrants are employed, and 5 percent have launched their own businesses, compared to 3.1 percent of all Americans. According to Giovanni Peri, ending DACA would bring a net loss in productivity, given that, , the U.S. economy is close to full employment. Ike Brannon and Logan Albright of the CATO Institute wrote in a 2017 that ending DACA would have an adverse economic and fiscal impact, estimating that the cost of immediately eliminating DACA and deporting those who received deferred action would be $283 billion over a decade (representing an economic loss of $215 billion, a fiscal loss of $60 billion (from lower net tax revenue), and $7.5 billion in deportation costs). Brannon and Albright wrote that their projections were \"a conservative estimate due to the fact that many DACA immigrants are young and still acquiring education credentials that will boost wages later.\" The Immigrant Legal Resource Center estimated that deporting DACA-eligible individuals would reduce Social Security and Medicare tax revenue by $24.6 billion over a decade. Peri argues that DACA recipients likely have a significant net positive fiscal impact given that DACA-eligible individuals have similar characteristics as second-generation immigrants, and that research shows that second-generation immigrants have a net positive fiscal impact of $173,000 to $259,000 per immigrant. Peri also notes that the U.S. public school system has already invested in educating these individuals, and they are at the point at which they can start contributing to the U.S. economy and public coffers; deporting them or increasing the likelihood that they be deported is economically counterproductive. A 2017 study by the Center for American Progress estimated that the loss of all DACA-eligible workers would reduce U.S. GDP by $433 billion over the next 10 years.\n\nAccording to Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas economist Pia Orrenius, due to their risk of deportation, it is likely that previously DACA-protected individuals would slip into the shadow economy or take low-profile jobs that pay less.\n\nA 2018 National Bureau of Economic Research paper found that DACA likely led to greater productivity by increasing the college attendance and employment of DACA-eligible individuals.\n\nResearch has shown mixed findings for DACA on education outcomes. A 2016 study in the \"Journal of Public Economics\" found that DACA had no significant effect on the likelihood of attending school. The study only found \"suggestive evidence that DACA pushed over 25,000 DACA-eligible individuals into obtaining their GED certificate in order to be eligible for DACA.\" However, research by Roberto G. Gonzales, professor of education at Harvard University, showed that DACA led to increased educational attainment. A 2018 National Bureau of Economic Research paper found that DACA led to greater high school attainment and college attendance for DACA-eligible individuals.\n\nA 2016 study in the \"Journal of Population Economics\" found that DACA \"reduced the probability of school enrollment of eligible higher-educated individuals, as well as some evidence that it increased the employment likelihood of men, in particular. Together, these findings suggest that a lack of authorization may lead individuals to enroll in school when working is not a viable option.\"\n\nThe effects of the rescinding and subsequent reimplementation of DACA has affected college students dramatically. The primary effects are psychological and educational in nature. The first way it does so is the general stress that comes along with having an uncertain legal status, in fact 70.9% of DACA recipients strongly agree that they worry about the future of the program. Many recipients have spoken about how their DACA status gives them anxiety because of fear for the unknown. This can then affect their education because individuals take that uncertainty and apply it to how much effort they should be putting into their school work. Thus, without knowing if they will be deported at any moment many DACA students reduce the amount of time they spend doing coursework, and some even drop out in favor of earning money at a job. A recent study shows the compound effect of being at a four-year university vs. a community college with 7.3% increase in dropout rates. Not only does this status make individuals less likely to finish their undergraduate degree, but it can even stop students from pursuing a graduate degree, especially in terms of funding.\n\nThe psychological effects of this status also becomes a barrier for DACA students in their college experience, largely because of the uncertainty that the status carries. Many reported high rates of extreme stress and anxiety as compared to their documented counterparts. Also, the internalizing of the label \"illegal\" made it so that these individuals saw themselves as less human. In certain cases this meant more instances of self-harm and even suicide in some cases. \n\nA 2017 study published in the journal \"Science\" found that DACA led to improved mental health outcomes for the children of DACA-eligible mothers. A 2017 \"Lancet Public Health\" study found that DACA-eligible individuals had better mental health outcomes as a result of their DACA eligibility. A 2018 study in the journal \"Social Sciences & Medicine\" found that DACA-eligible individuals who transitioned from illegal to legal status had improved psychological wellbeing.\n\n\"FiveThirtyEight\", summarizing the findings of past research, wrote that \"the threat of deportation alone would likely have a negative impact on families. Immigration-related stress and anxiety have been shown to have negative health effects... Generally, researchers believe the stress that stems from the fear of having a parent deported has far-reaching, negative effects on the health of children.\" In an editorial for the \"New England Journal of Medicine\", Atheendar S. Venkataramani, professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, and Alexander C. Tsai, professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, wrote, \"The evidence clearly indicates that rescinding DACA will have profound adverse population-level effects on mental health... DACA was never intended to be a public health program, but its population-level consequences for mental health have been significant and rival those of any large-scale health or social policies in recent history. Rescinding DACA therefore represents a threat to public mental health.\"\n\n21 percent of DACA-protected immigrants work in education and health services. The American Medical Association has estimated that under DACA or similar legislation, 5,400 additional physicians would work in the United States in coming decades, alleviating a projected shortage of primary care physicians.\n\nA 2016 study published in the journal \"International Migration\" found that DACA did not significantly impact the number of apprehensions of unaccompanied minors from Central America. A 2015 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report assessing the reasons behind the surge in unaccompanied minors from Central America did not mention DACA, and cited crime and lack of economic opportunity as the main reasons behind the surge.\n\nAfter The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals was repealed, a concern for safety became prominent in illegal alien families. In a study from PRI's The World, Caitlin Patler, assistant professor of sociology at UC Davis, says that DACA recipients have lost \"ontological security.\" They think about the personal information they have given the government and worry that they will be deported or unable to work or study, she says. \"These young people cannot count on the promise of the future.\" Many DACA recipients believe safety to be a prominent issue since the repeal of the act. In another journal by US Official News, it is revealed that \"almost 800,000 youth trusted the government with their \"fingerprints\" and other personal information when they applied for DACA. In return, the two-year reprieve from deportation lifted the constant, everyday fear of existence that characterized their lives. These mental health gains, in addition to the fruits of all of their hard work over the past five years, are now threatened.\"\n\nThe legality of DACA and its proposed expansions were challenged in court. But only the expansions were halted under a preliminary injunction. Legal experts are divided as to the constitutionality of DACA, but no court has yet to rule it unconstitutional.\n\nOne of challenges against DACA was filed in August 2012 by ten agents from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). The plaintiffs claimed that following the new lenient deportation policies established by DACA required them to violate the law. Almost a year later, Judge Reed O'Connor from the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas dismissed the lawsuit, ruling that the court lacked jurisdiction to decide on what essentially was a dispute between federal employees and their employer, the U.S. government. Nonetheless, in his decision to dismiss the case, the judge reiterated his view that DACA was inherently unlawful. The plaintiffs then filed an appeal but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld the dismissal on procedural grounds.\n\nThe first challenge against the DACA expansions was filed by Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Arizona, in November 2014. In the lawsuit, Arpaio claimed that DACA and its expansions were \"unconstitutional, arbitrary and capricious, and invalid under the Administrative Procedure Act as, in effect, regulations that have been promulgated without the requisite opportunity for public notice and comment.\" The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia promptly dismissed the lawsuit ruling that Arpaio did not have standing. That decision was upheld unanimously by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on August 14, 2015. Arpaio then asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case, but on January 19, 2016, the court denied that request.\n\nThe challenge that was granted a preliminary injunction was filed on December 2014 by Texas and 25 other states—all with Republican governors. The group of states sued to enjoin the implementation of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA)—another immigration policy—and the DACA expansions announced by the Obama administration. In the lawsuit, the states claimed that, by expanding DACA, the president failed to enforce the nation's immigration laws in contravention to Article Two of the U.S. Constitution. Moreover, the states claimed that the president unilaterally rewrote the law through his actions. As part of the judicial process, in February 2015, Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking the expansion from going into effect while the case, \"Texas v. United States\", proceeded. After progressing through the court system, an equally divided (4–4) Supreme Court left the injunction in place, without setting any precedent. The court's temporary injunction did not affect the existing DACA. At the time, individuals were allowed to continue to come forward and request an initial grant of DACA or renewal of DACA under the guidelines established in 2012.\n\nRegardless of the outcome of the preliminary injunction, legal opinions on the lawfulness of DACA are divided. In \"United States v. Texas\", for instance, the Obama administration argued that the policy was a lawful exercise of the enforcement discretion that Congress delegated to the executive branch in the Immigration and Nationality Act, which charges the executive with the administration and enforcement of the country's immigration laws. Conversely, Jay Sekulow, Chief Counsel of the American Center for Law and Justice, opined that DACA was unlawful by asserting that it unconstitutionally usurped Congress' role over immigration by illegally allowing certain classes of illegal aliens to violate U.S. immigration law with impunity.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, a coalition of 7 States, led by Texas, filed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the program, after originally promising to challenge the program if the administration didn't rescind it. On August 31, 2018, District Court Judge Andrew Hanen ruled that DACA is likely unconstitutional, however he let the program remain in place as litigation proceeds.\n\nState-level government officials are also divided on the issue. Those that support DACA claim that the government does not have the resources to target all illegal immigrants and that the policy thus helps federal agencies in exerting prosecutorial discretion—that is, in enforcing the law selectively by focusing limited resources on criminal immigrants rather than on non-criminal ones such as those eligible for DACA. Those that oppose the policy, however, claim that states would be forced to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on health care, education, law enforcement, and other public benefits associated with the immigrants receiving relief. For instance, DACA opponents claim that Texas could assume up to $500 million in administrative costs for issuing new driver's licenses.\n\nArizona became the first state to oppose President Obama's order for DACA when Governor Jan Brewer issued an order blocking those with deferred status from receiving any state benefits. This caused controversy, as eligible and approved applicants would still be unable to obtain a driver's license. In May 2013, a federal district court held that this policy was likely unconstitutional. In 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a preliminary injunction against Brewer's ban, and in November 2014 held this ban was in violation of the law.\n\nTo assist those eligible under the program, the state of California has agreed to support those who receive a DACA grant by allowing access to a state driver's license, provided that such individuals participate in specific state guidelines (such as paying income taxes). The state of California also allows DACA holding individuals to qualify for Medi-Cal.\n\nMayor of Chicago Rahm Emanuel stated that he wants to make Chicago the \"most immigrant-friendly city in the country\". In addition to offering in-state tuition for illegal immigrants, he has also made plans for a city ordinance that would prevent illegal immigrants with no criminal background from being turned over to immigration enforcement agencies.\n\nIn 2012, the then-director of the Iowa Department of Transportation, Paul Trombino III (now nominee for Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration), announced a policy to deny driver's licenses to Iowa residents who were part of the DACA program. The policy was reversed several weeks later.\n\nIn 2016, Mayor of Baltimore (2010-2016) Stephanie Rawlings-Blake stated that Baltimore police would not check the citizenship status of people with whom they interact.\n\nMaryland residents are eligible for in-state public tuition rates regardless of immigration status under certain conditions. A Maryland resident is eligible if they attended Maryland high schools for at least three of the previous twelve years and they graduated from a Maryland high school or received a Maryland GED within the previous ten years. They must have registered at a Maryland public college within four years of high school graduation or receiving a Maryland GED. They must have registered for Selective Service if male, and they must have filed Maryland income tax returns.\n\nIn October 2012, the Michigan Secretary of State, Ruth Johnson, announced that Michigan would not issue driver's licenses or state identification of any kind to beneficiaries of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. In making this decision, it was clear that the Secretary of State erroneously conflated the notion of \"lawful presence,\" which is required under Michigan Law to issue a driver's license, and \"lawful status,\" a different legal concept entirely. USCIS has made it clear that DACA beneficiaries do not possess legal status, but does \"not\" state that DACA beneficiaries are unlawfully present; in fact, it states that DACA beneficiaries will not accrue unlawful presence time here while they are in this deferred action status. The Secretary of State relied upon USCIS' own explanation, which discusses legal status, not lawful presence. In response to this policy, the ACLU filed a lawsuit against Johnson, alleging that the policy violated both Michigan law and the U.S. Constitution. On January 18, 2013, USCIS updated their \"Frequently Asked Questions\" page about DACA, clarifying, among other things, that DACA beneficiaries are, in fact, \"lawfully present\" in the United States. On February 1, 2013, Johnson reversed her policy and began issuing driver's licenses to DACA beneficiaries on February 19, 2013.\n\nGovernor Dave Heineman opposed Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals and in 2012 directed the Nebraska Department of Motor Vehicles to not issue driver's licenses to people who received deferred action under DACA. Heineman said that providing any benefit, including a driver's license, to an illegal immigrant would be a violation of Nebraska state law.\n\nIn 2015, however, the Nebraska Legislature determined that Section 202(c)(B)(viii) of the REAL ID Act of 2015 required states to allow people to present documentation of deferred-action status when registering for a driver's license, and the Nebraska Legislature voted to change state law to allow qualified individuals with DACA to receive licenses by using documentation of their status of deferred action. Governor Pete Ricketts vetoed the bill; the legislature voted 34–10 to override the veto. Nebraska became the last of the 50 states to allow deferred-action recipients to obtain licenses.\n\nNorth Carolina briefly suspended giving driver's licenses to DACA grantees while awaiting the state attorney general's opinion. The attorney general decided that even without formal immigration status, DACA grantees were to be granted legal presence. Subsequently, the state once again continued to give driver's licenses and allowed DACA grantees to become legal members of North Carolina.\n\nAlthough in-state tuition was still offered, Governor Rick Perry announced his opposition to DACA by distributing a letter to all state agencies, meant \"to ensure that all Texas agencies understand that Secretary Napolitano's guidelines confer absolutely no legal status whatsoever to any illegal immigrant who qualifies for the federal 'deferred action' designation.\"\n\nIn April 2014, Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring sent a letter to the director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV), the presidents of Virginia public colleges and universities, and the chancellor of the Virginia Community College System in response to inquiries from public institutions of higher education on whether DACA students were eligible for in-state tuition. The attorney general advised that under Virginia law, DACA students who met Virginia's domicile requirements were eligible for in-state tuition.\n\nWhile running for president, Donald Trump declared he intended to repeal DACA on \"day one\" of his presidency.\n\nOn February 14, 2017, a CNN report on the detention of 23-year-old Daniel Ramirez Medina in Northwest Detention Center, Tacoma, Washington following his arrest in his father's Des Moines, Washington home, observed that \"The case raises questions about what it could mean\" for the 750,000 Dreamers, who had \"received permission to stay under DACA.\" On March 7, 22-year-old Daniela Vargas of Jackson, Mississippi, another DACA recipient, was detained by ICE, further raising speculation about President Trump's commitment to Dreamers and questioning whether immigrants who speak out against the administration's policies should fear retaliation. Vargas was released from LaSalle Detention Center on March 10, 2017 and Ramirez Medina's release followed on March 29.\n\nOn June 16, 2017, the United States Department of Homeland Security announced it intended to repeal the executive order by the Barack Obama administration that expanded the DACA program, although the DACA program's overall existence would continue to be reviewed.\n\nOn September 5, 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the program is being repealed. Sessions stated that the DACA-eligible individuals were lawbreakers who adversely impacted the wages and employment of native-born Americans. Sessions also attributed DACA as a leading cause behind the surge in unaccompanied minors coming to the United States from Central America. President Trump said that \"virtually all\" \"top legal experts\" believed that DACA was unconstitutional. Fact-checkers have said that only a few economists believe DACA adversely affects native-born workers, that there is scant evidence that DACA caused the surge in unaccompanied minors, and that it is false that all \"top legal experts\" believe DACA to be unconstitutional.\n\nSessions added that implementation would be suspended for six months; DACA status and Employment Authorization Documents (\"EAD\") that expired during the next six months would continue to be renewed. DACA recipients with a work permit set to expire on or before March 5, 2018 would have the opportunity to apply for a two-year renewal if their application was received by USCIS by October 5, 2017. In a follow-up statement, Trump said \"It is now time for Congress to act!\" The approximately 800,000 immigrants who qualified for enrollment in DACA would become eligible for deportation by the end of those six months. A White House memo stated that DACA recipients should \"use the time remaining on their work authorizations to prepare for and arrange their departure from the United States.\"\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\", \"Democrats and some Republicans, business executives, college presidents and immigration activists condemned the repeal as a coldhearted and shortsighted effort that was unfair to the young immigrants and could harm the economy.\" Former President Obama condemned the repeal as \"cruel\" and wrote:\n\nThey were brought to this country by their parents, sometimes even as infants. They may not know a country besides ours. They may not even know a language besides English. They often have no idea they're undocumented until they apply for a job, or college, or a driver's license ... Whatever concerns or complaints Americans may have about immigration in general, we shouldn't threaten the future of this group of young people who are here through no fault of their own, who pose no threat, who are not taking away anything from the rest of us ... Kicking them out won't lower the unemployment rate, or lighten anyone's taxes, or raise anybody's wages.\n\nThe reaction was mixed among Republicans. Several senior Republicans praised Trump's action, such as House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Ron Johnson, chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Other Republicans, including Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake, and Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, condemned the Trump Administration's choice to rescind the executive order. In a released statement Senator McCain said:\n\nI strongly believe that children who were illegally brought into this country through no fault of their own should not be forced to return to a country they do not know. The 800,000 innocent young people granted deferred action under DACA over the last several years are pursuing degrees, starting careers, and contributing to our communities in important ways. While I disagreed with President Obama's unilateral action on this issue, I believe that rescinding DACA at this time is an unacceptable reversal of the promises and opportunities that have been conferred to these individuals.\n\nOrganizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union, Anti-Defamation League, and U.S. Chamber of Commerce condemned the repeal. A number of religious organizations condemned the repeal, with the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops describing it as \"reprehensible\". The Catholic University of Notre Dame also urged the president to not rescind DACA and announced it would stand by those affected. The United Methodist Church said it was \"not only unconscionable, but contrary to moral work and witness,\" and the Evangelical Lutheran Church called on its members to \"pray today for those that will suffer undue repercussions due to the end of this program.\" Asked about Trump's decision to rescind DACA, Pope Francis said if Trump is truly pro-life, \"he will understand that the family is the cradle of life and that it must be defended as a unit.\" Ralph Reed, chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, endorsed Trump's repeal.\n\nThe September 2017 announcement sparked protests in many cities including Washington, D.C., Chicago, and Los Angeles. At a September 5 protest in New York outside of Trump Tower, more than 30 protesters were arrested. On September 19, more protesters were arrested outside Trump Tower, including Democratic congressmen Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, Luis Gutiérrez of Illinois, and Adriano Espaillat of New York.\n\nThe rescission was challenged in court by different entities. On September 6, 2017, fifteen states and the District of Columbia filed a lawsuit, titled \"New York v. Trump\", in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York seeking to stop the repeal. A few days later, the California attorney general, Xavier Becerra, filed a separate lawsuit, which was joined by the states of Maine, Minnesota, and Maryland. Becerra stated that, as a quarter of the people in the DACA program live in California, he thinks that \"everyone recognizes the scope and breadth of the Trump decision to terminate DACA hits hardest here.\" Not only have state governments filed suit, but also six DREAMERs have filed suit against Trump in San Francisco. The University of California, which currently has approximately 4,000 undocumented students, has also filed a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security which was filed in the Northern District of California. Janet Napolitano, president of the UC system, called the rescission of DACA, \"unconstitutional, unjust, and unlawful\". In a released statement Napolitano said:\n\nI am deeply troubled by President Trump's decision to effectively end the DACA program and uproot the lives of an estimated 800,000 Dreamers across the nation. This backward-thinking, far-reaching move threatens to separate families and derail the futures of some of this country's brightest young minds, thousands of whom currently attend or have graduated from the University of California.\n\nOn December 20, 2017, the Supreme Court remanded five DACA cases originally filed in the Northern District of California back to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. This action stops the district court's order to deliver documents to the plaintiffs.\n\nOn January 9, 2018, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California temporarily blocked the rescission of the DACA program, ordering the government to renew DACA until further order of the court. On January 13, 2018, the government stated that it would immediately resume approving DACA renewal applications.\n\nOn February 13, 2018, Judge Nicholas Garaufis of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted a preliminary injunction ordering the federal government to fully restore the DACA program, including accepting brand new applicants as well as renewals. Moreover, as a rationale for his ruling, Garaufis said that DACA was neither unconstitutional nor in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) nor the Immigration and Naturalization Act (INA).\n\nOn February 26, 2018, the Supreme Court declined to hear the Trump administration's request for it to review the lower court order that the administration must continue to accept DACA applications, so the Supreme Court will allow the Ninth Circuit to review the ruling. The effect of this ruling was to delay implementation of the rescission until at least October 2018.\n\nOn April 24, 2018, John D. Bates, a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, ruled that the Trump administration must resume accepting new applications for DACA but stayed his decision for 90 days to allow the Department of Homeland Security to explain why the program was being canceled.\n\nOn August 3, 2018, Judge Bates said the Trump administration has failed to justify its proposal to end DACA; however, he stayed the ruling for 20 days to allow the Trump administration time to respond and appeal, if it chooses.\n\nIn announcing the rescission, the Trump Administration delayed implementation for six months to allow Congress to pass the DREAM Act or otherwise settle the status of Dreamers legislatively. Multiple proposals were introduced in Congress but none passed. Proposals included:\n\nIn February 2018 the Senate considered four bills to offer legal protection to people who came to the United States illegally as children, but all four bills failed to pass. On March 5, 2018 the rescission of DACA was supposed to become effective, leaving nearly 700,000 Dreamers eligible for deportation. A Supreme Court ruling postponed the effective date until at least October 2018. In the interim, DACA recipients remain protected and can continue to renew their protected status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227321", "title": "Disability Discrimination Act 1995", "text": "Disability Discrimination Act 1995\n\nThe Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (c 50) (informally, and hereafter, the DDA) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which has now been repealed and replaced by the Equality Act 2010, except in Northern Ireland where the Act still applies. Formerly, it made it unlawful to discriminate against people in respect of their disabilities in relation to employment, the provision of goods and services, education and transport.\n\nThe DDA is a civil rights law. Other countries use constitutional, social rights or criminal law to make similar provisions. The Equality and Human Rights Commission combats discrimination. Equivalent legislation exists in Northern Ireland, which is enforced by the Northern Ireland Equality Commission.\n\nThe Act was the culmination of a public campaign, and at least 100,000 people in demonstrations, to force the government to end state and business discrimination against disabled people. While the Race Relations Act 1976 and the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 guaranteed minimum standards for equality on grounds of race and gender, there had been very little concerning disabled people. Prior to the DDA, the first attempt to deal with the issue of disability was the Disabled Persons (Employment) Act 1944. This made it a legal requirement for companies with over 250 employees to employ a quota of disabled persons. This failed as there was not now appointed to monitor these rights and as such was toothless. \n\nIn addition to imposing obligations on employers, the Act placed duties on service providers and required \"reasonable adjustments\" to be made when providing access to goods, facilities, services and premises.\n\nThe duties on service providers have been introduced in three stages:\n\n\nThe Act was amended by the following legislation in Great Britain (but not Northern Ireland, where different amendments apply):\n\n\nThe DDA 1995 departed from the fundamental principles of older UK discrimination law (the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 and the Race Relations Act 1976). These Acts, also repealed and replaced by the Equality Act 2010, made direct discrimination and indirect discrimination unlawful. However, these concepts are insufficient to deal with the issues of disability discrimination.\n\nThe core concepts in the DDA 1995 are, instead:\n\n\"Reasonable adjustment\" or, as it is known in some other jurisdictions, 'reasonable accommodation', is the radical concept that makes the DDA 1995 so different from the older legislation. Instead of the rather passive approach of indirect discrimination (where someone can take action if they have been disadvantaged by a policy, practice or criterion that a body with duties under the law has adopted), reasonable adjustment is an active approach that requires employers, service providers etc. to take steps to remove barriers from disabled people's participation. For example:\n\n\nThe Disability Rights Commission's Codes of Practice give more information to bodies with duties on assessing whether a particular adjustment is reasonable. In general, the factors to consider would include:\n\nSometimes there may be no reasonable adjustment, and the outcome is that a disabled person is treated less favourably. For example, if a person was not able to understand the implications of entering into a mortgage or loan agreement, and they did not have anyone authorised to act for them, it would not make sense to require a bank or building society to enter into that agreement. The Act therefore permits employers and service providers to justify less favourable treatment (and in some instances failure to make a reasonable adjustment) in certain circumstances.\n\nAn example would be a medieval castle open for public tours that didn't have modifications made for wheelchairs. To do so would destroy the castle's historical aspects such as the restrictive nature of the original circular staircases.\n\nThe system of protection of disabled people, especially those with mental health problems to keep their homes, has been greatly enhanced by certain recent rulings in the UK Court of Appeal—City of Manchester v Romano.\n\nUnder the act it is unlawful to discriminate against a disabled person by evicting them or subjecting them to other detriment unless justified under the limited number of justifications set out in the act.\n\nIn practice the only relevant justification is that the landlord believes and also that it is objectively necessary for the protection of the health or safety of the disabled person or someone else.\n\nWhere the cause of the taking of proceedings is e.g. rent arrears which was caused by the disability e.g. by Housing Benefit being cancelled through non response to correspondence and the non response was caused by the disability, then not only is it discrimination, but it is discrimination which cannot be justified on the grounds allowed in the act.\n\nThis applies whether or not the landlord knew of the disability.\n\nThis applies even if \n\nThe tenant may counter-claim and seek an injunction restraining the landlord from continuing the possession proceedings.\n\nThe judges were very worried about the extent of the law and urged Parliament to change it. However, there has since been a new act of Parliament and there was no weakening of this protection.\n\n\nDisabled Persons (Employment) Act 1944\n\n"}
{"id": "33981787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33981787", "title": "Dogs Act", "text": "Dogs Act\n\nDogs Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used in the United Kingdom for legislation relating to dogs.\n\nActs of the Northern Ireland Assembly\n\nActs of the Scottish Parliament\n\n"}
{"id": "16858337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16858337", "title": "Electronic Municipal Market Access", "text": "Electronic Municipal Market Access\n\nThe Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA) system, operated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), serves as the official source for municipal securities disclosures and related market data in the United States. EMMA provides free on-line access to centralized new issue municipal securities disclosure documents (known as official statements), on-going continuing disclosures for all municipal securities, escrow deposit agreements for advance refundings (i.e., refinancings) of outstanding bonds, real-time municipal bond trade price information, interest rates and auction results for municipal auction rate securities (the first free source for this kind of information on the auction rate securities market) and interest rate reset information for variable rate demand obligations, together with daily statistics on trading activity and investor education materials.\n\nEMMA's disclosure collection operates in coordination with the MSRB's investor protection rules mandating that securities firms and banks selling municipal securities to customers provide them with complete disclosure of all important information about the investment. EMMA also is the central information utility through which municipal securities disclosures mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) through its Rule 15c2-12 are made freely available to the general public. The EMMA continuing disclosure service provides access to audited financial statements, default notices, taxability notices, notices of rating changes, and approximately 30 additional categories of financial and other updates relating to municipal securities. The MSRB and SEC continue to work toward expanding the types and timeliness of disclosures available through EMMA.\n\nPublic access to the integrated collection of primary market and secondary market disclosure provided through EMMA parallels the centralized disclosure currently available for securities offerings by public companies through the SEC's EDGAR system, although EMMA provides additional items of information beyond the base disclosures provided by EDGAR, such as trade prices, interest rates, market statistics and educational materials. The collection of disclosure documents available through EMMA for municipal securities is not identical to what is available through EDGAR for registered offerings of corporate or other securities since municipal securities and their state & local governmental issuers are afforded broad exemptions from most provisions of the federal securities laws (such as the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment Company Act of 1940) otherwise applicable to private-sector issuers of corporate and other types of securities.\n"}
{"id": "8190943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8190943", "title": "Employee Relations Law Journal", "text": "Employee Relations Law Journal\n\nThe Employee Relations Law Journal is a legal journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law. The journal covers employment law issues such as the Americans with Disabilities Act, family medical leave, sexual harassment, terminations, age discrimination, alternative dispute resolution, National Labor Relations Board decisions, and trends in employment law. The journal also includes regular columnists. These explore topics such as new employment and labor relations laws, regulations, court cases, developments in employee benefits administration, on-the-job safety and health issues, and labor-management relations. The journal is published quarterly by Aspen Publishers.\n"}
{"id": "393404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393404", "title": "Estates of the realm", "text": "Estates of the realm\n\nThe estates of the realm, or three estates, were the broad orders of social hierarchy used in Christendom (Christian Europe) from the medieval period to early modern Europe. Different systems for dividing society members into estates developed and evolved over time.\n\nThe best known system is the French \"Ancien Régime\" (Old Regime), a three-estate system used until the French Revolution (1789–1799). Monarchy was for the king and the queen and this system was made up of clergy (the First Estate), nobles (the Second Estate), and peasants and bourgeoisie (the Third Estate). In some regions, notably Scandinavia and Russia, burghers (the urban merchant class) and rural commoners were split into separate estates, creating a four-estate system with rural commoners ranking the lowest as the Fourth Estate. Furthermore, the non-landowning poor could be left outside the estates, leaving them without political rights. In England, a two-estate system evolved that combined nobility and clergy into one lordly estate with \"commons\" as the second estate. This system produced the two houses of parliament, the House of Commons and the House of Lords. In southern Germany, a three-estate system of nobility (princes and high clergy), \"ritters\" (knights), and burghers was used.\n\nToday the terms \"three estates\" and \"estates of the realm\" may sometimes be re-interpreted to refer to the modern separation of powers in government into the legislature, administration, and the judiciary. Additionally the term \"fourth estate\" usually refers to forces outside the established power structure (evoking medieval three-estate systems), most commonly in reference to the independent press or media. Historically, in Northern and Eastern Europe, the Fourth Estate meant rural commoners.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, advancing to different social classes was uncommon and very difficult.\n\nThe medieval Church was an institution where social mobility was most likely up to a certain level (generally to that of vicar general or abbot/abbess for commoners). Typically, only nobility were appointed to the highest church positions (bishops, archbishops, heads of religious orders, etc.), although low nobility could aspire to the highest church positions. Since clergy could not marry, such mobility was theoretically limited to one generation. Nepotism was common in this period.\n\nAnother possible way to rise in social position was due to exceptional military or commercial success. Such families were rare and their rise to nobility required royal patronage at some point. However, because noble lines went extinct naturally, some ennoblements were necessary.\n\n\"Medieval political speculation is imbued to the marrow with the idea of a structure of society based upon distinct orders,\" Johan Huizinga observes. The virtually synonymous terms \"estate\" and \"order\" designated a great variety of social realities, not at all limited to a class, Huizinga concluded applying to every social function, every trade, every recognisable grouping.\n\nThis static view of society was predicated on inherited positions. Commoners were universally considered the lowest order. The higher estates' necessary dependency on the commoners' production, however, often further divided the otherwise equal common people into burghers (also known as bourgeoisie) of the realm's cities and towns, and the peasants and serfs of the realm's surrounding lands and villages. A person's estate and position within it were usually inherited from the father and his occupation, similar to a caste within that system. In many regions and realms there also existed population groups born outside these specifically defined resident estates.\n\nLegislative bodies or advisory bodies to a monarch were traditionally grouped along lines of these estates, with the monarch above all three estates. Meetings of the estates of the realm became early legislative and judicial parliaments. Monarchs often sought to legitimize their power by requiring oaths of fealty from the estates. Today, in most countries, the estates have lost all their legal privileges, and are mainly of historical interest. The nobility may be an exception, for instance due to legislation against false titles of nobility; similarly British government well maintains the distinction- witness its House of Lords, and the House of Commons.\n\nOne of the earliest political pamphlets to address these ideas was called \"What Is the Third Estate?\" (French: Qu'est-ce que le tiers-état?) It was written by Abbé Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès in January 1789, shortly before the start of the French Revolution.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, numerous geographic and ethnic kingdoms developed among the endemic peoples of Europe, affecting their day-to-day secular lives; along with those, the growing influence of the Catholic Church and its Papacy affected the ethical, moral and religious lives and decisions of all. This led to mutual dependency between the secular and religious powers for guidance and protection, but over time and with the growing power of the kingdoms, competing secular realities increasingly diverged from religious idealism and Church decisions.\n\nThe new lords of the land identified themselves primarily as warriors, but because new technologies of warfare were expensive, and the fighting men required substantial material resources and considerable leisure to train, these needs had to be filled. The economic and political transformation of the countryside in the period were filled by a large growth in population, agricultural production, technological innovations and urban centers; movements of reform and renewal attempted to sharpen the distinction between clerical and lay status, and power, recognized by the Church also had their effect.\n\nIn his book \"The Three Orders: Feudal Society Imagined\", the French medievalist Georges Duby has shown that in the period 1023-1025 the first theorist who justified the division of European society into the three estates of the realm was Gerard of Florennes, the bishop of Cambrai.\n\nAs a result of the Investiture Controversy of the late 11th and early 12th centuries, the powerful office of Holy Roman Emperor lost much of its religious character and retained a more nominal universal preeminence over other rulers, though it varied. The struggle over investiture and the reform movement also legitimized all secular authorities, partly on the grounds of their obligation to enforce discipline.\n\nIn the 11th and 12th centuries thinkers argued that human society consisted of three orders: those who pray, those who fight, and those who labour. The structure of the first order, the clergy, was in place by 1200 and remained singly intact until the religious reformations of the 16th century. The very general category of those who labour (specifically, those who were not knightly warriors or nobles) diversified rapidly after the 11th century into the lively and energetic worlds of peasants, skilled artisans, merchants, financiers, lay professionals, and entrepreneurs, which together drove the European economy to its greatest achievements. The second order, those who fight, was the rank of the politically powerful, ambitious, and dangerous. Kings took pains to ensure that it did not resist their authority.\n\nBy the 12th century, most European political thinkers agreed that monarchy was the ideal form of governance. This was because it imitated on earth the model set by God for the universe; it was the form of government of the ancient Hebrews and the Christian Biblical basis, the later Roman Empire, and also the peoples who succeeded Rome after the 4th century.\n\nFrance under the \"Ancien Régime\" (before the French Revolution) divided society into three estates: the First Estate (clergy); the Second Estate (nobility); and the Third Estate (commoners). The king was considered part of no estate.\n\nThe First Estate comprised the entire clergy, traditionally divided into \"higher\" and \"lower\" clergy. Although there was no formal demarcation between the two categories, the upper clergy were, effectively, clerical nobility, from the families of the Second Estate. In the time of Louis XVI, every bishop in France was a nobleman, a situation that had not existed before the 18th century.\n\nAt the other extreme, the \"lower clergy\" (about equally divided between parish priests, monks, and nuns) constituted about 90 percent of the First Estate, which in 1789 numbered around 130,000 (about 0.5% of the population). \n\nThe Second Estate (Fr. \"deuxieme état\") was the French nobility and (technically, though not in common use) royalty, other than the monarch himself, who stood outside of the system of estates.\n\nThe Second Estate is traditionally divided into \"noblesse d'épée\" (\"nobility of the sword\"), and \"noblesse de robe\" (\"nobility of the robe\"), the magisterial class that administered royal justice and civil government.\n\nThe Second Estate constituted approximately 1.5% of France's population. Under the \"ancien régime\" (\"old rule/old government\"), the Second Estate were exempt from the \"corvée royale\" (forced labour on the roads) and from most other forms of taxation such as the \"gabelle\" (salt tax) and most important, the \"taille\" (the oldest form of direct taxation). This exemption from paying taxes led to their reluctance to reform.\n\nThe Third Estate comprised all of those who were not members of the above and can be divided into two groups, urban and rural, together making up 98% of France's population. The urban included wage-labourers. The rural included free peasants (who owned their own land) who could be prosperous and villeins (serfs, or peasants working on a noble's land). The free peasants paid disproportionately high taxes compared to the other Estates and were unhappy because they wanted more rights. In addition, the First and Second Estates relied on the labour of the Third, which made the latter's unequal status all the more glaring.\n\nThere were an estimated 27 million people in the Third Estate when the French Revolution started.\n\nThey had the hard life of physical labour and food shortages. Most were born within this group and died as a part of it, too. It was extremely rare for people of this ascribed status to make it out into another estate. Those who did so managed as a result of either being recognized for their extraordinary bravery in a battle or entering religious life. A few commoners were able to marry into the second estate, but this was a rare occurrence.\n\nThe first Estates General (not to be confused with a \"class of citizen\") was actually a general citizen assembly that was called by Philip IV in 1302.\n\nIn the period leading up to the Estates General of 1789, France was in the grip of an unmanageable public debt (nearly 3.56 million livres). In May 1776, finance minister Turgot was dismissed, after failing to enact reforms. The next year, Jacques Necker, a foreigner, was appointed Comptroller-General of Finance. He could not be made an official minister because he was a Protestant.), terrible inflation and widespread food scarcity (a huge famine in the winter of 1788-89). This led to widespread popular discontent and produced a group of Third Estate representatives (612 exactly) pressing a comparatively radical set of reforms, much of it in alignment with the goals of Finance Minister Jacques Necker, but very much against the wishes of Louis XVI's court and many of the hereditary nobles forming his Second Estate allies (at least allies against taking more taxes upon themselves and keeping the unequal taxation on the commoners).\n\nWhen he could not persuade them to rubber-stamp his 'ideal program', Louis XVI sought to dissolve the Estates-General, but the Third Estate held out for their right to representation. The lower clergy (and some nobles and upper clergy) eventually sided with the Third Estate, and the King was forced to yield. Thus, the Estate-General meeting was an invitation to revolution.\n\nBy June, when continued impasses led to further deterioration in relations, the Estates-General was reconstituted first as the National Assembly (June 17, 1789) seeking a solution for the realm independent of the King's management of the meetings of the Estates General which occasionally continued to meet. These self-organized meetings are today defined as the epoch event beginning the historical epoch (era) of the French Revolution, during which – after several more weeks of civil unrest – the body assumed a new status as a revolutionary legislature, the National Constituent Assembly (July 9, 1789).\n\nThis unitary body composed of the former representatives of the three estates stepping up to govern along with an emergency committee in the power vacuum existing after the Bourbon monarchy fled Paris. Among the Assembly was Maximilien de Robespierre, an influential member of the Jacobins who would years later become instrumental in the turbulent period of violence and political upheaval in France known as the Reign of Terror (5 September 1793 – 28 July 1794).\n\nWhilst the estates were never formulated in a way that prevented social mobility, the English (subsequently the British) parliament was long based along the classic estate lines being composed on the \"Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons\". The tradition where the Lords Spiritual and Temporal sat separately from the Commons began during the reign of Edward III in the 14th century.\n\nNotwithstanding the House of Lords Act 1999, the British Parliament still recognises the existence of the three estates: the Commons in the House of Commons, the nobility (Lords Temporal) in the House of Lords, and the clergy in the form of the Church of England bishops also entitled to sit in the upper House as the Lords Spiritual.\n\nThe members of the Parliament of Scotland were collectively referred to as the Three Estates (Older Scots: Thre Estaitis), also known as the community of the realm, and until 1690 composed of:\n\nThe First Estate was overthrown during the Glorious Revolution and the accession of William III. The Second Estate was then split into two to retain the division into three.\n\nA \"Shire Commissioner\" was the closest equivalent of the English office of \"Member of Parliament\", namely a commoner or member of the lower nobility. Because the Parliament of Scotland was unicameral, all members sat in the same chamber, as opposed to the separate English House of Lords and House of Commons.\n\nThe Parliament also had University constituencies (see Ancient universities of Scotland). The system was also adopted by the Parliament of England when James VI ascended to the English throne. It was believed that the universities were affected by the decisions of Parliament and ought therefore to have representation in it. This continued in the Parliament of Great Britain after 1707 and the Parliament of the United Kingdom until 1950.\n\nThe Estates in Sweden (including Finland) and later also Russia's Grand Duchy of Finland were the two higher estates, nobility and clergy, and the two lower estates, burghers and land-owning peasants. Each were free men, and had specific rights and responsibilities, and the right to send representatives to the Riksdag of the Estates. The Riksdag, and later the Diet of Finland was tetracameral: at the Riksdag, each Estate voted as a single body. Since early 18th century, a bill needed the approval of at least three Estates to pass, and constitutional amendments required the approval of all Estates. Prior to the 18th century, the King had the right to cast a deciding vote if the Estates were split evenly.\n\nAfter Russia's conquest of Finland in 1809, the estates in Finland swore an oath to the Emperor in the Diet of Porvoo. A Finnish House of Nobility was codified in 1818 in accordance with the old Swedish law of 1723. However, after the Diet of Porvoo, the Diet of Finland was reconvened only in 1863. In the meantime, for a period of 54 years, the country was governed only administratively.\n\nThere was also a population outside the estates. Unlike in other areas, people had no \"default\" estate, and were not peasants unless they came from a land-owner's family. A summary of this division is:\n\nIn Sweden, the Riksdag of the Estates existed until it was replaced with a bicameral Riksdag in 1866, which gave political rights to anyone with a certain income or property. Nevertheless, many of the leading politicians of the 19th century continued to be drawn from the old estates, in that they were either noblemen themselves, or represented agricultural and urban interests. Ennoblements continued even after the estates had lost their political importance, with the last ennoblement of explorer Sven Hedin taking place in 1902; this practice was formally abolished with the adoption of the new Constitution January 1, 1975, while the status of the House of Nobility continued to be regulated in law until 2003.\n\nIn Finland, this legal division existed until 1906, still drawing on the Swedish constitution of 1772. However, at the start of the 20th century most of the population did not belong to any Estate and had no political representation. A particularly large class were the rent farmers, who did not own the land they cultivated but had to work in the land-owner's farm to pay their rent (unlike Russia, there were no slaves or serfs.) Furthermore, the industrial workers living in the city were not represented by the four-estate system.\n\nThe political system was reformed as a result of the Finnish general strike of 1905, with the last Diet instituting a new constitutional law to create the modern parliamentary system, ending the political privileges of the estates. The post-independence constitution of 1919 forbade ennoblement, and all tax privileges were abolished in 1920. The privileges of the estates were officially and finally abolished in 1995, although in legal practice, the privileges had long been unenforceable. As in Sweden, the nobility has not been officially abolished and records of nobility are still voluntarily maintained by the Finnish House of Nobility.\n\nIn Finland, it is still illegal and punishable by jail time (up to one year) to defraud into marriage by declaring a false name or estate (Rikoslaki 18 luku § 1/Strafflagen 18 kap. § 1).\n\nThe Low Countries, which until the late sixteenth century consisted of several counties, prince bishoprics, duchies etc. in the area that is now modern Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, had no States General until 1464, when Duke Philip of Burgundy assembled the first States General in Bruges. Later in the 15th and 16th centuries Brussels became the place where the States General assembled. On these occasions deputies from the States of the various provinces (as the counties, prince-bishoprics and duchies were called) asked for more liberties. For this reason, the States General were not assembled very often.\n\nAs a consequence of the Union of Utrecht in 1579 and the events that followed afterwards, the States General declared that they no longer obeyed King Philip II of Spain, who was also overlord of the Netherlands. After the reconquest of the southern Netherlands (roughly Belgium and Luxemburg), the States General of the Dutch Republic first assembled permanently in Middelburg, and in The Hague from 1585 onward. Without a king to rule the country, the States General became the sovereign power. It was the level of government where all things were dealt with that were of concern to all the seven provinces that became part of the Republic of the United Netherlands.\n\nDuring that time the States General were formed by representatives of the States (i.e. provincial parliaments) of the seven provinces. In each States (a plurale tantum) sat representatives of the nobility and the cities (the clergy were no longer represented; in Friesland the peasants were indirectly represented by the \"Grietmannen\").\n\nIn the Southern Netherlands, the last meetings of the States General loyal to the Habsburgs took place in the Estates General of 1600 and the Estates General of 1632.\n\nAs a government, the States General of the Dutch Republic were abolished in 1795. A new parliament was created, called \"Nationale Vergadering\" (National Assembly). It no longer consisted of representatives of the States, let alone the Estates: all men were considered equal under the 1798 Constitution. Eventually, the Netherlands became part of the French Empire under Napoleon (1810:\" La Hollande est reunie à l'Empire\").\n\nAfter regaining independence in November 1813, the name \"States General\" was resurrected for a legislature constituted in 1814 and elected by the States-Provincial. In 1815, when the Netherlands were united with Belgium and Luxemburg, the States General were divided into two chambers: the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. The members of the First Chamber were appointed for life by the King, while the members of the Second Chamber were elected by the members of the States Provincial. The States General resided in The Hague and Brussels in alternate years until 1830, when, as a result of the Belgian Revolution, The Hague became once again the sole residence of the States General, Brussels instead hosting the newly founded Belgian Parliament.\n\nFrom 1848 on, the Dutch Constitution provides that members of the Second Chamber be elected by the people (at first only by a limited portion of the male population; universal male and female suffrage exists since 1919), while the members of the First Chamber are chosen by the members of the States Provincial. As a result, the Second Chamber became the most important. The First Chamber is also called Senate. This however, is not a term used in the Constitution.\n\nOccasionally the First and Second Chamber meet in a \"Verenigde Vergadering\" (Joint Session), for instance on Prinsjesdag, the annual opening of the parliamentary year, and when a new king is inaugurated.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire had the Imperial Diet (\"Reichstag\"). The clergy was represented by the independent prince-bishops, prince-archbishops and prince-abbots of the many monasteries. The nobility consisted of independent aristocratic rulers: secular prince-electors, kings, dukes, margraves, counts and others. Burghers consisted of representatives of the independent imperial cities. Many peoples whose territories within the Holy Roman Empire had been independent for centuries had no representatives in the Imperial Diet, and this included the Imperial Knights and independent villages. The power of the Imperial Diet was limited, despite efforts of centralization.\n\nLarge realms of the nobility or clergy had estates of their own that could wield great power in local affairs. Power struggles between ruler and estates were comparable to similar events in the history of the British and French parliaments.\n\nThe Swabian League, a significant regional power in its part of Germany during the 15th Century, also had its own kind of Estates, a governing Federal Council comprising three Colleges: those of Princes, Cities, and Knights.\n\nIn the late Russian Empire the estates were called \"sosloviyes\". The four major estates were: nobility (\"dvoryanstvo\"), clergy, rural dwellers, and urban dwellers, with a more detailed stratification therein. The division in estates was of mixed nature: traditional, occupational, as well as formal: for example, voting in Duma was carried out by estates. Russian Empire Census recorded the reported estate of a person.\n\nThe Parliament of Catalonia was first established in 1283 as the Catalan Courts (\"Corts Catalanes\"), according to American historian Thomas Bisson, and it has been considered by several historians as a model of medieval parliament. For instance, English historian of constitutionalism Charles Howard McIlwain wrote that the General Courts of Catalonia, during the 14th century, had a more defined organization and met more regularly than the parliaments of England or France.\n\nThe roots of the parliament institution in Catalonia are in the Sanctuary and Truce Assemblies (\"assemblees de pau i treva\") that started in the 11th century.\nThe members of the parliament of Catalonia were organized in the Three Estates (Catalan: \"Tres Estats\"):\nThe parliament institution was abolished in 1716, together with the rest of institutions of Catalonia, after the War of the Spanish Succession.\n\n\nLocation specific:\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "46794441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46794441", "title": "Extradition law in Nigeria", "text": "Extradition law in Nigeria\n\nNigeria is held by treaty to cooperate in extradition of criminals with several nations.\n\nThe extradition Treaty signed between the United States and other countries allows the United States to request from countries that have signed the Extradition Treaty to extradite persons who are wanted by the United States Security Authorities for criminal offences. Nigeria signed the Extradition Treaty with the United State in December 22, 1931 and entered into force in June 24, 1935.\n\nSince then Nigeria has extradited several persons to the United States for various reasons ranging from drug, advance fee fraud, and terrorism related offenses. In August 28, 2013 a court in Nigeria on the request of the U.S. Embassy ordered the extradition to the US one Lawal Olaniyi Babafemi's on a federal indictment charging him for providing support to al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula by recruiting members to train in Yemen.\n\nA recent incidence involving Senator-elect Buruji Kashamu, 56, who was on Monday, 25, May 2015, refused to attend a court hearing on his extradition to the United States on 20-year-old drug charges related to the TV hit \"Orange is the New Black.” After years of inaction, the United States has requested his extradition, according to Nigeria's drug agency. A U.S. State Department official told The Associated Press that the department does not comment on law enforcement matters.\n\nThere is no public record showing the extradition of United States citizens to Nigeria since the treaty became effective in 1935. Despite being the party benefit ting more from the treaty, the State Department in a 2009 report described Nigeria’s extradition practices and procedures as an obstacle to anti-crime efforts. The report states that the US has several extradition requests pending in Nigeria for years.\n\nThe Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in May 4 requested the Federal High Court in Abuja, May 4, May 2015 ordered that Emmanuel Okoyomon, former Managing Director Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPM) be extradition to the United Kingdom (UK) for trial for alleged corruption and money laundering. The court gave the Federal Government 30 days within which to extradite Okoyomon to the UK.\n"}
{"id": "28536826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28536826", "title": "Fire Safety Journal", "text": "Fire Safety Journal\n\nFire Safety Journal is a peer-reviewed scientific journal dealing with original and multidisciplinary research on all aspects of the science and engineering of fire, fire safety and fire protection. Topics include but are not limited to chemistry and physics of fire, fire dynamics, explosions, fire protection systems, detection, suppression, structural response, structural protection, fire investigations, design (including consumer products, industrial plant, transportation, buildings), people/fire interactions (physical, physiological, and psychological), risk, management, legislation, and education. It is the official journal of the International Association for Fire Safety Science and is published by Elsevier.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Cambridge Scientific Abstracts, Chemical Abstracts, Compendex, Current Contents/Engineering, Engineered Materials Abstracts, Engineering Index, Fire Technology Abstracts, Materials Science Citation Index, PASCAL, Science Citation Index, and Scopus. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2016 impact factor is 1.165.\n\n"}
{"id": "45673855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45673855", "title": "Gilles Cistac", "text": "Gilles Cistac\n\nGilles Cistac (November 11, 1961 − March 3, 2015) was a Franco-Mozambican lawyer specialised in constitutional law. He was shot and killed and political motives were suspected. The RENAMO party organised protests.\n\nGilles Cistac was born in 1961 in the French city of Toulouse. He studied public law in Toulouse and graduated there in 1998.\n\nIn 1993 Cistac came as an advisor to Mozambique working for the French embassy providing assistance to the Mozambican state in creating a new electoral law. After a short stay back in France, he moved to Mozambique in 1995. Since then he worked as a law professor at Eduardo Mondlane University. Until his death, he was the vice-chair of the investigation department of the law faculty of the university. It was his efforts that led to the creation of the \"Centro de Estudos sobre a Integração Regional\" (CEDIR), a small investigation unit working on the harmonisation of the law in the SADC member states.\n\nIn 2009, Cistac received the French order of merit Ordre des Palmes Académiques in the rank of a knight (\"Chevalier\") for his work on decentralisation in Mozambique. The \"Ordre des Palmes Académiques\" is the highest French order of merit in the science area. In 2010 Cistac acquired the Mozambican citizenship additionally to his French citizenship.\nIn the morning of the March 3, 2015 Gilles Cistac wanted to enter a taxi in front of a café in the Polana neighbourhood, when a car passed by and hit Cistac intentionally by three shots. A few hours later, Cistac died in Maputo's central hospital. The main opposition party, RENAMO, as well as certain oppositional and international media houses blamed radical forces of the ruling FRELIMO party for Cistac's death, while the FRELIMO denied having any relation to this. A few days later, several marches in several Mozambican cities honoured Cistac. Embassies of different states, as of France, the European Union and the United States, condemned the homicide and demanded a fast and effective investigation of it.\n\nCistac's homicide was seen as a further step in increasing Mozambique's political crisis since 2013.\n\nGilles Cistac was known as a sharp critic of the ruling FRELIMO party, he published his opinion in several oppositional media, despite the fact that he claimed to be independent and not affiliated to any political party. He criticised the constant violation of human rights in Mozambique, the appropriation of the state bureaucracy by the FRELIMO, the concentration of the state's executive power and the weak public prosecution.\n\nAfter the general elections in 2014 the main opposition party, RENAMO, protested heavily against the results. Especially, the RENAMO claimed to govern the provinces, in which the party won the majority of votes. At the moment, the central government nominates the governors of the provinces. RENAMO leader Afonso Dhlakama demanded the creation of so-called \"Autonomous Provinces\" and a subsequent constitutional devolution. The FRELIMO party, especially Mozambique's president Filipe Nyusi, denied these requests and called them \"unconstitutional\". Gilles Cistac contradicted Nyusi and said that, according to Mozambique's constitution, it was possible to create subaltern hierarchies. Cistac prepared a legislative proposal for the RENAMO, which is going to be discussed in the national Parliament.\n\nAfter publishing his opinion about the possibility of creating \"Autonomous Provinces\" several media close to the FRELIMO party criticised him for his opinions. The spokesperson of the FRELIMO, Damião José, called Cistac a \"liar\" and being \"dishonest\", as well as blaming him not being thankful to the Mozambican people who accepted him \"friendly\".\n\nGilles Cistac published more than 50 works about Mozambican law.\n"}
{"id": "43804011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43804011", "title": "Hawke's Bay Motor Co Ltd v Russell", "text": "Hawke's Bay Motor Co Ltd v Russell\n\nHawke's Bay Motor Co Ltd v Russell [1972] NZLR 542 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding liability in negligence, and the legal concept of res ipsa loquitur \n\nA bus owned by Hawkes Bay Motor Company was struck on a bend in a road by a car driven on the wrong side of the road by Russell. They later sued Russell for the cost of the damage, to which Russell successfully defended on the basis that he had blacked out due to a medical condition.\n\nHBMC appealed that under res ipsa loquitur, that due to the facts here, the onus of proof should be of Russell to prove the medical condition.\n\nThe court ruled that this doctrine did not apply here.\n"}
{"id": "58752562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58752562", "title": "Him Too movement", "text": "Him Too movement\n\nThe Him Too movement (or #HimToo movement), is a movement against false rape allegations. #HimToo spread virally in October 2018 after a tweet from a mother about her son being afraid to date because of a climate of false rape allegations; the son quickly disavowed the tweet, saying it does not represent him or his opinions concerning sexual assault. Data from sociology, and criminal justice, suggest that at least 1.5% of all felons are wrongfully convicted. The data is shown true because the supposed rapist is later exonerated. However, the actual number of falsely accused is thought to be much higher (Demsey, Forst, Carter, 2018). \n\nThe #HimToo movement came as part of the backlash to the #MeToo movement. A US mother tweeted about her son with this hashtag. She claimed that her son, Pieter Hanson, is afraid to go on dates because of false rape allegations. Hanson himself disavowed his mother’s tweet, saying that he does not avoid dating for fear of being falsely accused of sexual misconduct, and that he supports the #MeToo movement.\n\nSince the hash tag #HimToo went viral on Twitter, there has been widespread discussion about the movement and allegations worldwide caused by the Me Too movement.\n\n\nCRIMINAL JUSTICE INTRODUCTION (Dempsey, Forst, Carter, 2019).\n"}
{"id": "17449327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17449327", "title": "Judicial Council of California", "text": "Judicial Council of California\n\nThe Judicial Council of California is the rule-making arm of the California court system. In accordance with the California Constitution and under the leadership of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California, the council is responsible for \"ensuring the consistent, independent, impartial, and accessible administration of justice.\" It was created by an amendment to article VI of the California Constitution in 1926.\n\nThe California Rules of Court are rules adopted by the Judicial Council. Every court may also make local rules for its own government and the government of its officers not inconsistent with law or with the rules adopted and prescribed by the Judicial Council.\n\nCalifornia law encourages the Judicial Council to provide for uniformity in rules and procedures throughout all courts on the form of papers, limitations on the filing of papers, rules relating to law and motion, and requirements concerning documents to be filed at or prior to trial. One of the Judicial Council's most well-known functions is promulgating a huge number of standard court forms for use in California judicial proceedings, such as Form TR-130, the standard \"Notice to Appear\" form used by practically all California law enforcement agencies to write traffic citations.\n\nThe Judicial Council is composed of 21 voting members:\n\n\nThe California Constitution requires that the council also have two non-voting members who are court administrators. The Administrative Director is a non-voting member who serves as Secretary, and the Chief Justice can also appoint further advisory (non-voting) members.\n\nThe Judicial Council's staff of approximately 800 is responsible for implementing council policies and supporting the day-to-day operations of the Supreme Court, the courts of appeal, and the superior courts. The staff maintains a headquarters office in San Francisco where the Judicial Council regularly meets, as well as a branch in Sacramento. The staff has also created a centralized datacenter for the court system, the California Court Technology Center, which is operated under contract by Siemens IT Solutions and Services in Newark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876263", "title": "Law enforcement officer", "text": "Law enforcement officer\n\nA law enforcement officer (LEO), or peace officer in North American English, is a public-sector employee whose duties primarily involve the enforcement of laws. The phrase can include police officers, municipal law enforcement officers, special police officers, customs officers, state troopers, special agents, secret agents, special investigators, border patrol officers, immigration officers, court officers, probation officers, parole officers, arson investigators, auxiliary officers, game wardens, sheriffs, constables, corrections, marshals, deputies, detention officers, correction officers, and public safety officers (at public institutions). Security guards are civilians and therefore not law enforcement officers, unless they have been granted powers to enforce particular laws, such as those accredited under a community safety accreditation scheme. Although typically the term \"law enforcement officer\" refers to those government agents with police powers, prosecutors are also law enforcement officers.\n\nModern legal codes use the term \"peace officer\" (or in some jurisdictions, \"law enforcement officer\") to include every person vested by the legislating state with law enforcement authority—<wbr>traditionally, anyone \"sworn, badged, and armable\" who can arrest, or refer such arrest for a criminal prosecution. Hence, city police officers, county sheriffs' deputies, and state troopers are usually vested with the same authority within a given jurisdiction. Contract security officers may enforce certain laws and administrative regulations, which may include detainment or apprehension authority, including arresting. Peace officers may also be able to perform all duties that a law enforcement officer is tasked with, but may or may not be armed with a weapon.\n\nIn Canada, the Criminal Code (R.S., c. C-34, s. 2.) defines a \"peace officer\" as:\n\nSection (b) allows for designation as a peace officer for a member of the Correctional Service of Canada under the following via the \"Corrections and Conditional Release Act\":\n\nIn addition, provincial legislatures can designate a class of officers (i.e. Conservation Officers, Park Rangers and Commercial Vehicle Safety and Enforcement) to be peace officers.\n\nUnder the \"Code Of Criminal Procedure\" a peace officer includes all police officers, a Divisional Assistant Government Agent and a Grama Niladharis appointed by a Government Agent (GA) in writing to perform police duties or keep the peace. A peace officer has the power to arrest a person without a warrant or an order from a magistrate under certain circumstances such as;\n\n\nDuring the British colonial administration of Ceylon, when uniformed policing by the Ceylon Police Force in rural areas of the island was limited, the local government agent would appoint individuals from wealthy influential families deemed loyal to the crown as a Peace Officers with police powers to keep the peace. This was an influential post, the holder had much control over the people of the area. Commonly a Native Headman (Muladaniya) was appointed as the Peace Officer to maintain law and order in rural villages. \n\nFollowing the formation of the State Council of Ceylon in 1931, one of its members, H. W. Amarasuriya, called for an inquiry into the headman system. A commission was formed made up of retired civil servants and lawyers headed by H.M. Wedderburn. The commission reported on reforming the headman system or replacing it with transferable District Revenue Officers. The headman system was abolished as an administrative system, with the titles of Mudaliyar (Mudali - මුදලි) and Muhandiram retained by government to be awarded as honors. This practice remained until suspension of Celonese honors in 1956. The minor headman positions where retained, surviving well into the 1970s when the post of Vidane was replaced with the transferable post of Grama Niladhari (Village Officer).\n\nU.S. Law Enforcement Officers include (but may not be limited to) the following:\n\n\nArizona Revised Statutes defines a peace officer in Title 13, Section 105, as \"any person vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and make arrests and includes a constable.\" Title 1, Section 215(27) enumerates those who are peace officers in the State of Arizona. It includes:\n\n\nArizona Revised Statutes 41-1823 states that except for duly elected or appointed sheriffs and constables, and probation officers in the course of their duties, no person may exercise the authority or perform the duties of a peace officer unless he is certified by the Arizona peace officers standards and training board.\n\nSections 830 through 831.7 of the California Penal Code\nlist persons who are considered peace officers within the State of California. Peace officers include, in addition to many others,\n\n\nMost peace officers have jurisdiction throughout the state, but many have limited powers outside their political subdivision. Some peace officers require special permission to carry firearms. Powers are often limited to performance of peace officers' primary duties (usually, enforcement of specific laws within their political subdivision); however, most have power of arrest anywhere in the state for any public offense\nthat poses immediate danger to person or property.\n\nA private person (i.e., ordinary citizen) may arrest another person for an offense committed in the arresting person's presence, or if the other person has committed a felony whether or not in the arresting person's presence (Penal Code § 837), though such an arrest when an offense has not actually occurred leaves a private person open to criminal prosecution and civil liability for false arrest. A peace officer may:\n\nPersons are required to comply with certain instructions given by a peace officer, and certain acts (e.g., battery) committed against a peace officer carry more severe penalties than the same acts against a private person. It is unlawful to resist, delay, or obstruct a peace officer in the course of the officer's duties (Penal Code § 148<nowiki>[a][1]</nowiki>).\n\nNew York State grants peace officers very specific powers under NYS Criminal Procedure Law, that they may make warrantless arrests, use physical and deadly force, and issue summonses under section 2.20 of that law.\n\nThere is a full list of peace officers under Section 2.10 of that law. Below are some examples.\n\n\nTexas Statutes, Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 2.12, provides:\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "2515361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515361", "title": "Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003", "text": "Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003\n\nThe Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003 (c 28) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which regulates the legal deposit of publications in the United Kingdom. The bill for this Act was a private member's bill. This Act was passed to update the legislation on legal deposit to reflect the digital age.\n\nThe previous provisions covering legal deposit in the United Kingdom were under the Copyright Act 1911. They covered published paper products of almost all types, excluding only ephemera such as diaries and bus timetables. By the beginning of the 21st century many publications appeared in electronic form, either exclusively or in addition to their print form. A voluntary set of rules for deposit had been drawn up a few years earlier but it was felt that the additional force of statute was required to ensure the British national published record remained complete.\n\nAs under the previous legislation there are six libraries entitled to printed works. The British Library is entitled to a copy of every printed work published in the United Kingdom. A publisher must send a copy to the British Library within a month of the work being published. The copy sent to the British Library must be of the same quality as the best copies published in the UK at the time.\n\nThe other five libraries, the Bodleian Library, the Cambridge University Library, the Library of Trinity College, Dublin, the National Library of Wales and the National Library of Scotland are not automatically entitled to be sent a copy of the printed works. However, the five libraries have the right to send a publisher a request for a printed work within twelve months of the publication of the work. The publisher must deliver a copy within a month of receipt of the request. The quality of works sent to any of the five libraries must be of the same quality as the largest number of copies of the work published in the UK at the time of the request. Trinity College Dublin is included in the Act despite it being outside the UK's jurisdiction, as the Act continued the more ancient right bestowed on the college in 1801, when Ireland was part of the Union.\n\nEach of these five libraries sends requests via the Agency for the Legal Deposit Libraries, who receives copies of the works and distributes them to the individual libraries. Publishers may also send copies to the Agency in advance of a request being submitted to them. \n\nThe 2003 Act includes provisions for the deposit of non-print publications such as CD-ROMs and copies of websites. The Secretary of State is given powers to make regulations governing the deposit of non-print publications. The regulations are permitted to include such things as provisions determining how and when a non-print publication must be deposited; when an online work is considered to be published in the UK and therefore subject to the 2003 Act; the quality and means of delivery of the copy of the work; the format that the deposited copy must be presented in where different formats of the work exist; an obligation to give the deposit library information to make the work accessible and the timing when deposit must be made. There are also restrictions put in place as to the activities that may be undertaken with the non-print publications, unless those activities are authorised by regulations made by the Secretary of State. Those restrictions include copying the material, adapting a computer program or database, lending the material, transferring the material to a third party or disposing of the material. Even the using of the material is prohibited subject to regulations stating otherwise. The power to make regulations restricting various matters, including when non-print publications may be used, which readers may use the material and how many people may use a non-print publication at once is also provided for. The 2003 Act also contains provisions that prevent regulations meaning publishers must deposit non-print publications at Trinity College, Dublin unless Irish law on copyright and related rights contains equivalent protections to British copyright law, that the restrictions on the acts that may be done with non-print publications are equivalent to British law and that the liability exceptions in Irish law are equivalent to those in British law.\n\nThe 2003 Act also inserted various exceptions to copyright and database right into the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 and the Copyright and Rights in Databases Regulations 1997 to prevent the use of non-print publications by deposit libraries infringing copyright and/or database rights. However, the 2003 Act enabled regulations to be made restricting the exceptions to copyright for non-print publications so that deposited works may not be copied more freely than an equivalent work available at an ordinary library. Various exemptions from liability against breach of contract; infringement of copyright, database right or publication right; criminal liability or damages for defamation were also enacted by the 2003 Act to protect deposit libraries using works and publishers sending works to deposit libraries from actions for breach of those liabilities that could otherwise occur.\n\nSection 16 of the 2003 Act and the power to make regulations came into force upon Royal Assent of the 2003 Act. The rest of the Act was brought into force on 1 February 2004 by article 2 of the Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003 (Commencement) Order 2004 (SI 2004/130) (C 5). The 2003 Act extends to the whole of the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17418777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17418777", "title": "List of confidence tricks", "text": "List of confidence tricks\n\nThis list of confidence tricks and scams should not be considered complete, but covers the most common examples. Confidence tricks and scams are difficult to classify, because they change often and often contain elements of more than one type. Throughout this list, the perpetrator of the confidence trick is called the \"con artist\" or simply \"artist\", and the intended victim is the \"mark\". Particular scams are mainly directed toward elderly people, as they may be credulous and sometimes inexperienced and/or insecure, especially when the scam involves modern technology such as computers and the internet.\nGet-rich-quick schemes are extremely varied; these include fake franchises, real estate \"sure things\", get-rich-quick books, wealth-building seminars, self-help gurus, sure-fire inventions, useless products, chain letters, fortune tellers, quack doctors, miracle pharmaceuticals, foreign exchange fraud, Nigerian money scams, and charms and talismans. Variations include the pyramid scheme, the Ponzi scheme, and the matrix scheme.\n\nVictor Lustig, a German con artist, designed and sold a \"money box\" which he claimed could print $100 bills using blank sheets of paper. A victim, sensing huge profits and untroubled by ethical implications, would buy the machine for a high price—from $25,000 to $102,000. Lustig stocked the machine with six to nine genuine $100 bills for demonstration purposes, but after that it produced only blank paper. By the time victims realized that they had been scammed, Lustig was long gone.\n\nSalting or \"salting the mine\" are terms for a scam in which gemstones or gold ore are planted in a mine or on the landscape, duping the mark into purchasing shares in a worthless or non-existent mining company. During gold rushes, scammers would load shotguns with gold dust and shoot into the sides of the mine to give the appearance of a rich ore, thus \"salting the mine\". Examples include the diamond hoax of 1872 and the Bre-X gold fraud of the mid-1990s. This trick was featured in the HBO series \"Deadwood\", when Al Swearengen and E. B. Farnum trick Brom Garret into believing gold is to be found on the claim Swearengen intends to sell him. This con was also featured in \"Sneaky Pete\".\n\nThe Spanish Prisoner scam – and its modern variant, the advance-fee scam or \"Nigerian letter scam\". The basic premise involves enlisting the mark to aid in retrieving some stolen money from its hiding place. The victim sometimes believes he can cheat the con artists out of their money, but anyone trying this has already fallen for the essential con by believing that the money is there to steal (see also Black money scam). Note that the classic Spanish Prisoner trick also contains an element of the romance scam (see below).\n\nMany con men employ extra tricks to keep the victim from going to the police. A common ploy of investment scammers is to encourage a mark to use money concealed from tax authorities. The mark cannot go to the authorities without revealing that he has committed tax fraud. Many swindles involve a minor element of crime or some other misdeed. The mark is made to think that he will gain money by helping fraudsters get huge sums out of a country (the classic advance-fee fraud/Nigerian scam); hence a mark cannot go to the police without revealing that he planned to commit a crime himself.\n\nIn a twist on the Nigerian fraud scheme, the mark is told he is helping someone overseas collect debts from corporate clients. Large cheques stolen from businesses are mailed to the mark. These cheques are altered to reflect the mark's name, and the mark is then asked to cash them and transfer all but a percentage of the funds (his commission) to the con artist. The cheques are often completely genuine, except that the \"pay to\" information has been expertly changed. This exposes the mark not only to enormous debt when the bank reclaims the money from his account, but also to criminal charges for money laundering. A more modern variation is to use laser-printed counterfeit cheques with the proper bank account numbers and payer information.\n\nPersuasion fraud, when fraudsters persuade people only to target their money, is an old-fashioned type of fraud.\n\nA grandparent gets a call or e-mail from someone claiming to be their grandchild, saying that they are in trouble abroad. For instance, the scammer may claim to have been arrested and require money to be wired for bail, and asks the victim not to tell the grandchild's parents, as they would \"only get upset\". The call is fraudulent impersonation, the name of the grandchild typically obtained from social media postings, and any money wired out of the country is gone forever.\n\nThe traditional romance scam has now moved into Internet dating sites. The con actively cultivates a romantic relationship which often involves promises of marriage. However, after some time, it becomes evident that this Internet \"sweetheart\" is stuck in his or her home country or a third country, lacking the money to leave and thus unable to be united with the mark. The scam then becomes an advance-fee fraud or a check fraud. A wide variety of reasons can be offered for the trickster's lack of cash, but rather than just borrow the money from the victim (advance fee fraud), the con-man normally declares that he has checks which the victim can cash on his behalf and remit the money via a non-reversible transfer service to help facilitate the trip (check fraud). Of course, the checks are forged or stolen and the con-man never makes the trip: the hapless victim ends up with a large debt and an aching heart. This scam can be seen in the movie \"Nights of Cabiria\".\n\nIn some cases, an online dating site is itself engaged in fraud, posting profiles of fictional persons or persons which the operator knows are not currently looking for a date in the advertised locality.\n\nOne traditional swindle involves fortune telling. In this scam, a fortune teller uses cold reading skills to detect that a client is genuinely troubled rather than merely seeking entertainment; or is a gambler complaining of bad luck. The fortune teller informs the mark that he is the victim of a curse, and that for a fee a spell can be cast to remove the curse. In Romany, this trick is called \"bujo\" (\"bag\") after one traditional format: the mark is told that the curse is in his money; he brings money in a bag to have the spell cast over it, and leaves with a bag of worthless paper. Fear of this scam has been one justification for legislation that makes fortune telling a crime. See the \"Blessing Scam\" below.\n\nThis scam got a new lease on life in the electronic age with the virus hoax. Fake anti-virus software falsely claims that a computer is infected with viruses, and renders the machine inoperable with bogus warnings unless blackmail is paid. In the Datalink Computer Services incident, a mark was fleeced of several millions of dollars by a firm that claimed that his computer was infected with viruses, and that the infection indicated an elaborate conspiracy against him on the Internet. The alleged scam lasted from August 2004 through October 2010 and is estimated to have cost the victim $6–20 million.\n\nGold brick scams involve selling a tangible item for more than it is worth; they are named after selling the victim an allegedly golden ingot which turns out to be gold-coated lead.\n\nThe green goods scam, also known as the \"green goods game\", was a scheme popular in the 19th-century United States in which people were duped into paying for worthless counterfeit money. It is a variation on the pig-in-a-poke scam using money instead of other goods like a pig. The mark, or victim, would respond to flyers circulated throughout the country by the scammers (\"green goods men\") which claimed to offer \"genuine\" counterfeit currency for sale. This currency was sometimes alleged to have been printed with stolen engraving plates. Victims, usually living outside major cities, would be enticed to travel to the location of the green goods men to complete the transaction. Victims were guided by a \"steerer\" to be shown large amounts of genuine currency – represented to be counterfeit – which was then placed in a bag or satchel. Victims then received offers to purchase the money at a price much less than face value. While a victim negotiated a price or was otherwise distracted, another accomplice (the \"ringer\") would switch the bag of money for a bag containing sawdust, green paper, or other worthless items. Victims would leave unaware of the switch, and were unwilling to report the crime, as attempting to purchase counterfeit currency was itself a crime and the victim accordingly risked arrest.\n\nPig in a poke originated in the late Middle Ages. The con entails a sale of what is claimed to be a small pig, in a poke (bag). The bag actually contains a cat (not particularly prized as a source of meat). If one buys the bag without looking inside it, the person has bought something of less value than was assumed, and has learned first-hand the lesson \"caveat emptor\". \"Buying a pig in a poke\" has become a colloquial expression in many European languages, including English, for when someone buys something without examining it beforehand. In some regions the \"pig\" in the phrase is replaced by \"cat\", referring to the bag's actual content, but the saying is otherwise identical. This is also said to be where the phrase \"letting the cat out of the bag\" comes from, although there may be other explanations.\n\nIn Portuguese or Spanish speaking countries, the \"pig\" in the phrase is replaced by a hare or jackrabbit. A victim thinks he is buying a hare, when in reality he is buying a cat, hence the expression \"gato por lebre\" (in Portuguese) or \"gato por liebre\" (in Spanish).\n\nThe Thai gem scam involves layers of con men and helpers who tell a tourist in Bangkok of an opportunity to earn money by buying duty-free jewelry and having it shipped back to the tourist's home country. The mark is driven around the city in a tuk-tuk operated by one of the con men, who ensures that the mark meets one helper after another, until the mark is persuaded to buy the jewelry from a store also operated by the swindlers. The gems are real but significantly overpriced. This scam has been operating for twenty years in Bangkok, and is said to be protected by Thai police and politicians. A similar scam usually runs in parallel for custom-made suits. Many tourists are hit by con men touting both goods.\n\nIn the white van speaker scam, low-quality loudspeakers are sold—stereotypically from a white van—as expensive units that have been greatly discounted. The salesmen explain the ultra-low price in a number of ways; for instance, that their employer is unaware of having ordered too many speakers, so they are sneakily selling the excess behind the boss's back. The \"speakermen\" are ready to be haggled down to a seemingly minuscule price, because the speakers they are selling, while usually functional, actually cost only a tiny fraction of their \"list price\" to manufacture. The scam may extend to the creation of Web sites for the bogus brand, which usually sounds similar to that of a respected loudspeaker company. They will often place an ad for the speakers in the \"For sale\" Classifieds of the local newspaper, at the exorbitant price, and then show the mark a copy of this ad to \"verify\" their worth.\n\nPeople shopping for bootleg software, illegal pornographic images, bootleg music, drugs, firearms or other forbidden or controlled goods may be legally hindered from reporting swindles to the police. An example is the \"big screen TV in the back of the truck\": the TV is touted as \"hot\" (stolen), so it will be sold for a very low price. The TV is in fact defective or broken; it may in fact not even be a television at all, since some scammers have discovered that a suitably decorated oven door will suffice. The buyer has no legal recourse without admitting to the attempted purchase of stolen goods.\n\nIraqi currency is sold to would-be investors with the belief that economic/financial circumstances will drastically increase the value of their investment. In fact there is no credible rationale or information to indicate that those circumstances will materialize or, if they do materialize, that they will have significant effect on the value of the currency. Moreover, the dealers sell currency to these investors at substantial mark-up such that a significant appreciation of the currency would be required just to make their investment break even.\n\nThe badger game extortion was perpetrated largely upon married men. The mark is deliberately coerced into a compromising position, a supposed affair for example, then threatened with public exposure of his acts unless blackmail money is paid.\n\nA mail fraud that is typically perpetrated on restaurateurs, this scheme takes a receipt from a legitimate dry cleaner in the target city, duplicates it thousands of times, and sends it to every upscale eatery in town. An attached note claims a server in the victim's restaurant spilled food, coffee, wine or salad dressing on a diner's expensive suit of clothes, and demands reimbursement for dry cleaning costs. As the amount fraudulently claimed from each victim is relatively low, some will give the scammers the benefit of the doubt, or simply seek to avoid the nuisance of further action, and pay the claim.\n\nThe scam's return address is a drop box; the rest of the contact information is fictional or belongs to an innocent third party. The original dry cleaning shop, which has nothing to do with the scheme, receives multiple irate enquiries from victimised restaurateurs.\n\nA clip joint or \"fleshpot\" is an establishment, usually a strip club or entertainment bar, typically one claiming to offer adult entertainment or bottle service, in which customers are tricked into paying money and receive poor, or no, goods or services in return. Typically, clip joints suggest the possibility of sex, charge excessively high prices for watered-down drinks, then eject customers when they become unwilling or unable to spend more money. The product or service may be illicit, offering the victim no recourse through official or legal channels.\n\nAlso called a coin smack or smack game, two operators trick a victim during a game where coins are matched. One operator begins the game with the victim, then the second joins in. When the second operator leaves briefly, the first colludes with the victim to cheat the second operator. After rejoining the game, the second operator, angry at \"losing,\" threatens to call the police. The first operator convinces the victim to pitch in hush money, which the two operators later split.\n\nA consumer inquires about a payday loan or short-term credit online and is asked for a long list of personal information. The lender is a shell firm; the loan might never be made, but the victim's personal information is now in the hands of scammers who sells it to a fraudulent collection agency. That agency then launches into a series of harassing phone calls at all hours (often to the victim's workplace), attempts to obtain bank account numbers (allowing the account to be drained through direct withdrawal) or impersonates police (sometimes with caller ID spoofing) to threaten the victim with arrest. Fake debt collectors often refuse to provide a legally-required written \"validation notice\" of the debt, provide no evidence a debt is actually owed and demand payment using a money transfer service like Moneygram or Western Union with poor traceability and no chargeback protection. The underlying debt either doesn't exist, is not valid due to a statute of limitations or does not lawfully belong to the entity making the calls; in some cases, the victim is a target of identity theft.\n\nThe scammers operate under multiple names, many of which are intended to be mistaken for official or government agencies. The fraudulent calls often originate from abroad; any money extorted is immediately taken out of the country.\n\nA bogus or dishonest law firm is a valuable tool to a scammer in various ways. It can send requests for upfront payments in relation to inheritances coming from unknown relatives, a form of advance fee fraud. It also makes an effective fraudulent collection agency, as victims fear having to pay their own counsel hundreds of dollars per hour to defend against frivolous, vexatious or completely unfounded claims.\n\nIn some cases, the dishonest lawyer is merely part of a larger fraudulent scheme. A real estate fraud may involve taking deposits for a project under construction where, in theory, the lawyer is holding the money in escrow, guarding down payments as trust fund assets until a real estate deal closes. When the project is never completed, investors seek their money back but find the supposed trust fund is empty as both lawyer and real estate developer are fraudulent.\n\nInsurance fraud includes a wide variety of schemes in which insureds attempt to defraud their own insurance carriers, but when the victim is a private individual, the con artist tricks the mark into damaging, for example, the con artist's car, or injuring the con artist, in a manner that the con artist can later exaggerate. One relatively common scheme involves two cars, one for the con artist, and the other for the shill. The con artist will pull in front of the victim, and the shill will pull in front of the con artist before slowing down. The con artist will then slam on his brakes to \"avoid\" the shill, causing the victim to rear-end the con artist. The shill will accelerate away, leaving the scene. The con artist will then claim various exaggerated injuries in an attempt to collect from the victim's insurance carrier despite having intentionally caused the accident. Insurance carriers, who must spend money to fight even those claims they believe are fraudulent, frequently pay out thousands of dollars—a tiny amount to the carrier despite being a significant amount to an individual—to settle these claims instead of going to court.\n\nA variation of this scam occurs in countries where insurance premiums are generally tied to a bonus-malus rating: the con artist will offer to avoid an insurance claim, settling instead for a cash compensation. Thus, the con artist is able to evade a professional damage assessment, and get an untraceable payment in exchange for sparing the mark the expenses of a lowered merit class.\n\nThe fiddle game uses the pigeon drop technique. A pair of con men work together, one going into an expensive restaurant in shabby clothes, eating, and claiming to have left his wallet at home, which is nearby. As collateral, the con man leaves his only worldly possession, the violin that provides his livelihood. After he leaves, the second con man swoops in, offers an outrageously large amount (for example $50,000) for what he calls a rare instrument, then looks at his watch and runs off to an appointment, leaving his card for the mark to call him when the fiddle-owner returns. The \"poor man\" comes back, having gotten the money to pay for his meal and redeem his violin. The mark, thinking he has an offer on the table from the second conspirator, then buys the violin from the fiddle player who \"reluctantly\" agrees to sell it for a certain amount that still allows the mark to make a \"profit\" from the valuable violin. The result is the two con men are richer (less the cost of the violin), and the mark is left with a cheap instrument.\n\nThe fiddle game may be played with any sufficiently valuable-seeming piece of property; a common variation known as the pedigreed-dog swindle uses a mongrel dog upsold as a rare breed but is otherwise identical. An episode of the television series \"Hustle\", \"Cops and Robbers\", employs this variation of the fiddle game, as does The Streets' song \"Can't Con an Honest John\".\n\nAs a well-known scam, the fiddle game and its variants have formed the basis for a number of fictional interpretations, sometimes with unusual variations on the valuable item. In the 1981 \"Only Fools and Horses\" episode \"Cash and Curry\", the main character, Del Boy, is tricked into paying £2000 for a statue worth £17, believing it to be worth £4000. The fiddle game scam was also described in the Neil Gaiman novel \"American Gods\", where the perpetrator ironically specifies that he \"personally made it a point of honor never to pay more than five dollars for any\" of the violins he used in his scams. The traditional version of this trick is used in episodes of the British sitcom \"Steptoe and Son\" and its US incarnation as \"Sanford and Son\" (episode 36, \"\").\n\nAn episode of the American TV series \"Leverage\" titled \"The Studio Job\" featured a version of a fiddle game where the \"fiddle\" was the rights to a country music recording. In the \"Better Call Saul\" episode \"Marco\", the protagonist and a friend execute a number of short cons together, including both a traditional fiddle game and a variation using a common Kennedy half-dollar sold for a high price as a supposedly valuable mis-print.\n\nNear-identical examples of the fiddle game are seen in \"Lovejoy\" and \"Monarch of the Glen\", where it is combined with art counterfeiting. In \"The Real Thing\", the seventh episode of the first series of \"Lovejoy\", Jimmy shows Lovejoy a 'genuine George Vincent' painting he has bought for £550 from a reluctant seller who asked him to mind it. Lovejoy immediately recognises the scam and asks Jimmy whether a dealer had come in before Jimmy bought it and offered a few thousand pounds for it. Lovejoy then tells Jimmy: \"The most valuable thing you've got there is the frame, and that's worth about ten quid.\" In the first episode of the fifth series of \"Monarch of the Glen\", Molly arranges for an arts dealer to repair an item of furniture. The dealer claims the repairs cost more than had been arranged and that he would need to keep the piece to cover his costs as Molly cannot afford to pay his invoice. Later, Andrew uses his painting skills to create a counterfeit painting, which Golly leaves with the dealer to appraise. Andrew then offers substantially more for it, promising to return with the cash. Golly then exchanges the painting for Molly's furniture, which he and Andrew return to her.\n\nThis scam was recently pulled off, nearly by the book, in the TV show \"Imposters\" in Season 2, Episode 2, \"Trouble Maybe\".\n\nThe glim-dropper scam is a variation of the fiddle game. It requires several accomplices, one of whom must be a one-eyed man. One grifter goes into a store and pretends he has lost his glass eye. Everyone looks around, but the eye cannot be found. He declares that he will pay a thousand-dollar reward for the return of his eye, leaving contact information. The next day, an accomplice enters the store and pretends to find the eye. The storekeeper (the intended griftee), thinking of the reward, offers to take it and return it to its owner. The finder insists he will return it himself, and demands the owner's address. Thinking he will lose all chance of the reward, the storekeeper offers a hundred dollars for the eye. The finder bargains him up to $250, and departs. The one-eyed man, of course, cannot be found and does not return. (Described in \"A Cool Million, or, The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin\" (1934) by Nathanael West). Variants of this con have been used in movies such as \"The Flim-Flam Man\", \"Hustle\", \"The Traveller (1997)\", \"Shade (2003)\", and \"Zombieland (2009)\", and also in books such as \"American Gods\".\n\nLottery fraud by proxy is a scam in which the scammer buys a lottery ticket with old winning numbers. He or she then alters the date on the ticket so that it appears to be from the day before, and therefore a winning ticket. He or she then sells the ticket to the mark, claiming it is a winning ticket, but for some reason, he or she is unable to collect the prize (not eligible, etc.). The particular cruelty in this scam is that if the mark attempts to collect the prize, the fraudulently altered ticket will be discovered and the mark held criminally liable. This con was featured in the movie \"Matchstick Men\", where Nicolas Cage teaches it to his daughter. A twist on the con was shown in \"Great Teacher Onizuka\", where the more-than-gullible Onizuka was tricked into getting a \"winning ticket\". The ticket wasn't altered, but the daily newspaper reporting the day's winning numbers was altered with a black pen.\n\nThree-card Monte, \"find the queen\", the \"three-card trick\", or \"follow the lady\" is essentially the same as the centuries-older shell game or \"thimblerig\" (except for the props). The trickster shows three playing cards to the audience, one of which is a queen (the \"lady\"), then places the cards face-down, shuffles them around, and invites the audience to bet on which one is the queen. At first the audience is skeptical, so the shill places a bet, and the scammer allows him to win. In one variation of the game, the shill will (apparently surreptitiously) peek at the lady, ensuring that the mark also sees the card. This is sometimes enough to entice the audience to place bets, but the trickster uses sleight of hand to ensure that he always loses, unless the con man decides to let him win, hoping to lure him into betting much more. The mark loses whenever the dealer chooses to make him lose. \n\nThis con appears in the Eric Garcia novel \"Matchstick Men\" and is featured in the movie \"Edmond\". The scam is central to the Pulitzer prize-winning play \"Topdog/Underdog\". It also appears in episodes of \"White Collar\", Now You See Me 2, \"Leverage\", \"Newsradio\", \"Everybody Hates Chris\", \"The Simpsons\", and \"Hustle\" (Season 3 Ep 2). It is seen in foreign films an example of which is \"Şark Bülbülü\" wıth Kemal Sunal; in Turkish the term \"Üç Kağıtçı\" meaning 'a three carder' i.e. the dealer of a three-card monte scam; a general term for any fraudster.\n\nA variation on this scam exists in Barcelona, Spain, but with the addition of a pickpocket. The dealer and shill behave in an overtly obvious manner, attracting a larger audience. When the pickpocket succeeds in stealing from a member of the audience, he signals the dealer. The dealer then shouts the word \"aguas\" – colloquial for \"Watch Out!\" – and the three split up. The audience is left believing that the police are coming, and that the performance was a failed scam.\n\nA variant of this scam exists in Mumbai, India. The shill says loudly to the dealer that his cards are fake and that he wants to see them. He takes the card and folds a corner and says in a hushed voice to the audience that he has marked the card. He places a bet and wins. Then he asks the others to place bets as well. When one of the audience bets a large sum of money, the cards are switched.\n\nGovernmental bodies maintain a list of entities which accredit educational institutions. The US Department of Education, for instance, oversees higher education accreditation in the United States.\n\nMost diploma mills are not accredited by such an entity, although many obtain accreditation from other organizations (such as accreditation mills or corrupt foreign officials) to appear legitimate. Graduates of these institutions risk that the qualifications gained at these institutions may not be sufficient for further study, lawful employment or professional licensure as their issuers do not hold locally-valid accreditation to grant the degrees.\n\nSome diploma mills perform no instruction or examination, instead issuing credentials based on payment and \"life experience\". A few have unknowingly issued degrees and credentials to companion animals.\n\nThe Doctor of Divinity title is particularly prone to misuse. In the United Kingdom it is an earned postdoctoral credential which requires a string of publications, but in the United States any church may confer it as an honorary title; ordination mills readily grant this doctorate for a moderate fee and token amount of study.\n\nA vanity press is a pay-to-publish scheme where a publishing house, typically an author mill, obtains the bulk of its revenues from authors who pay to have their books published instead of from readers purchasing the finished books. As the author bears the entire financial risk, the vanity press profits even if the books are not promoted (or badly promoted) and do not sell. The growth of print on demand, which allows small quantities of books to be printed cheaply, has accelerated this trend.\n\nVanity publishing is not the same as self-publishing, in that self-published authors own their finished books and control their distribution, relying on a print shop solely to turn camera-ready content into printed volumes. In a vanity press, the author takes the financial risk while the publisher owns the printed volumes.\n\nA vanity award is an award which the recipient purchases, giving the false appearance of a legitimate honour. These are closely related to the Who's Who scam, where a biographic subject pays for a vanity listing in a printed directory.\n\nOperators of fraudulent \"Who's Who\"-type directories would offer listings or \"membership\" to purchasers who are often unaware of the low rates the directories in question are consulted.\n\nThe World Luxury Association is a self-proclaimed international organisation based in China that offers \"official registration\" for luxury brands, and inclusion in an \"official list\" of luxury brands, in return for a fee.\n\nComputer users unwittingly download and install rogue security software, malware disguised as antivirus software, by following the messages which appear on their screen. The software then pretends to find multiple viruses on the victim's computer, \"removes\" a few, and asks for payment in order to take care of the rest. They are then linked to con artists' websites, professionally designed to make their bogus software appear legitimate, where they must pay a fee to download the \"full version\" of their \"antivirus software\".\n\nA modern scam in which the artist communicates with the mark, masquerading as a representative of an official organization with which the mark is doing business, in order to extract personal information which can then be used, for example, to steal money. In a typical instance, the artist sends the mark an email pretending to be from a company, such as eBay. It is formatted exactly like email from that business, and will ask the mark to \"verify\" some personal information at the website, to which a link is provided, in order to \"reactivate\" his blocked account. The website is fake but designed to look exactly like the business' website. The site contains a form asking for personal information such as credit card numbers, which the mark feels compelled to give or lose all access to the service. When the mark submits the form (without double-checking the website address), the information is sent to the swindler.\n\nA similar caller ID spoofing scheme exists with misleading telephone calls (\"vishing\") facilitated by Internet telephony. A fraudster can make calls through an Internet-PSTN gateway to impersonate banks, police, schools or other trusted entities. A random dialer computer or auto-dialer can impersonate healthcare providers to get Social Security numbers and birthdates from elderly patients recently released from the hospital. The auto-dialer call states it is from a reputable hospital or a pharmacy and the message explains the need to \"update records\" to be from the hospital or a pharmacy.\n\nOther online scams include advance-fee fraud, bidding fee auctions (\"penny auctions\"), click fraud, domain slamming, various spoofing attacks, web-cramming, and online versions of employment scams, romance scams, and fake rewards.\n\nUnsuspecting computer owners and users are being targeted by people claiming to be from Windows, i.e., Microsoft or from their internet provider and then telling them that their computer/machine is creating errors and they need to correct the faults on their computers. They can even get people to go to one site or another to show them these so-called errors, at which point they are required to give their credit card details in order to purchase some form of support, after which they are asked to allow remote connection to the \"error-laden\" computer so that the problem(s) may be fixed. At this point the victim's computer is infected with malware or spyware or remote connection software such as Virtualpcsecure. Microsoft has denied any tie to such schemes, but the scams continue regardless.\n\nThe art student scam is common in major Chinese cities. A small group of 'students' will start a conversation, citing a wish to practice their English. In short order they will maneuver the conversation over to education and will claim to be art students wishing to take the mark to a free art exhibition, which will usually be in a small, well-hidden rented office. Once there the students will show the mark some art pieces which they claim to be their own work and will try to sell them at a high price, despite the pieces usually being nothing more than a worthless printout. They will often resort to 'guilt tricks' (e.g., introducing their \"starving child\") to overcome resistance or to discourage price negotiation on the part of the mark.\n\nThe bar bill scam is common in Europe, especially Budapest, Hungary. A mark, usually a man who is a tourist, is approached by an attractive woman or pair of women who start a conversation, such as asking for directions (pretending to have mistaken the tourist for a local). After a bit of conversation, the women will suggest that they go to a bar that they know of. While there, they order many entrées and drinks and encourage the mark to do the same. Either the menu does not have prices on it or the menu is later switched with one that has higher prices.\n\nWhen the bill comes, it is many times larger than expected. The women have only a small amount of cash on them, and ask the mark to pay for the bill. The mark is forced to pay before leaving (sometimes with threats of violence), and directed to an ATM on the premises where they can withdraw cash. The women apologize profusely for the situation and arrange to meet the next day to pay them back, but they do not show. In truth, the women are working with the bar and receive a cut of the payment.\n\nThe con can also be performed with a well-dressed man or a gregarious local rather than an attractive woman. A variation on this is to have a taxi driver recommend the bar to the passenger, who enters alone and orders, not realizing that they will be charged an exorbitant bill. The taxi driver receives a cut of the payment.\n\nThe Beijing tea scam is a famous variation of the Clip Joint scam practiced in and around Beijing and some other large Chinese cities. The artists (usually female and working in pairs) will approach tourists and try to make friends. After chatting, they will suggest a trip to see a tea ceremony, claiming that they have never been to one before. The tourist is never shown a menu, but assumes that this is how things are done in China. After the ceremony, the bill is presented to the tourist, charging upwards of $100 per head. The artists will then hand over their bills, and the tourists are obliged to follow suit. Similar scams involving restaurants, coffee shops and bars also take place.\n\nThe Big Store is a technique for selling the legitimacy of a scam and typically involves a large team of con artists and elaborate sets. Often a building is rented and furnished as a legitimate and substantial business. The \"betting parlor\" setup in \"The Sting\" is an example.\n\nIn 2014, a rural co-operative in Nanjing, China constructed an entire brick-and-mortar fake bank with uniformed clerks behind counters; the unlicensed bank operated for a little over a year, then defaulted on its obligations, swindling Chinese savers out of 200 million Chinese yuan.\n\nChange raising, also known as a quick-change artist, is a common short con and involves an offer to change an amount of money with someone, while at the same time taking change or bills back and forth to confuse the person as to how much money is actually being changed. The most common form, \"the Short Count\", has been featured prominently in several movies about grifting, notably \"The Grifters\", \"Criminal\", \"Nine Queens\", and \"Paper Moon\". For example, a con artist shopping at a gas station pays for a cheap item (under a dollar) and gives the clerk a ten dollar bill. The con gets back nine ones and the change and then tells the clerk he has a one and will exchange ten ones for a ten. This is what the scam artist is doing: getting the clerk to hand over the $10 before handing over the $1 bills. Then the scam artist hands over nine ones and the $10. The clerk will assume there has been a mistake and offer to swap the ten for a one. Then the con will probably just say: \"Here's another one, give me a $20 and we're even.\" Notice that the scam artist just swapped $10 for $20. The $10 was the store's money, not the con's. To avoid this con, clerks should keep each transaction separate and never permit the customer to handle the original ten before handing over the ten ones. Another variation is to flash a $20 bill to the clerk, then ask for something behind the counter. When the clerk turns away, the con artist can swap the bill he is holding to a lesser bill. The clerk might then make change for the larger bill, without noticing it has been swapped. The technique may work better when bills are the same color at a glance like, for instance, U.S. dollar bills.\n\nA similar technique exists when a con comes to a gas station with a young clerk, buying something cheap, showing him an uncommonly huge bill while not giving it and telling the clerk to prepare the change. While he's busy counting the change, the con would ask many questions in order to distract the young clerk. When change is counted and ready the con is acting as if he had given the huge bill. If the clerk does not remember having received the bill, the con will say he gave him the money. If the clerk is weak or distracted enough, he could let the con go away with the change.\n\nSometimes cab drivers in India try a similar con, when customers require some change back. For example, they may pay $100 for a $60 ride and expect a return of $40. But the con would say that he only received $10 and in fact needs $50 more. The mark is baffled, trying to remember and of course, the con has swiftly switched the $100 bill with a $10 one, waving it to show that this was really what the mark gave to him. Since the con has now made the mark look suspicious, the mark feels guilty and pays up. This scenario can also be created in markets, when vendors sometimes team up and support each other's cons, if the mark tries to resist.\n\nAnother variant is to use confusing or misdirected language. See Tens and a Five.\n\nIn this scam, the confidence artist poses as a casting agent for a modeling agency searching for new talent. The aspiring model is told that he will need a portfolio or comp card. The mark will pay an upfront fee to have photos and create his portfolio, after which he will be sent on his way in the hope that his agent will find him work in the following weeks. Of course, he never hears back from the confidence artist.\n\nIn a variation on this scam, the confidence artist is a casting agent involved with the adult entertainment industry. The mark is taken to the artist's office for an interview, in which she is told that she will have to pose for nude photos or shoot a casting video, usually involving sexual acts. Upon her agreement, the mark is sent on her way, as before. She may not have to pay upfront for a portfolio, but any material generated during her \"interview\" may be used and sold by the confidence artist without any payment to the mark.\n\nThe fake-agent scam is often targeted against industry newcomers, since they will often lack the experience required to spot such tricks. Legitimate talent agencies advise that a genuine talent agent will \"never\" ask for money up-front, as they make their entire living from commissions on their clients' earnings.\n\nVery similar to the casting agent scam is the \"job offer\" scam in which a victim receives an unsolicited e-mail claiming that they are in consideration for hiring to a new job. The confidence artist will usually obtain the victim's name from social networking sites, such as LinkedIn and Monster.com. In many cases, those running the scams will create fake websites listing jobs which the victim is seeking, then contact the victim to offer them one of the positions.\n\nIf the victim responds to the initial e-mail, the scammer will send additional messages to build up the victim's assurance that they are in the running, or have already been selected, for a legitimate job. This will include asking for the victim's resume as well as assurances that a phone interview will be the \"next step in the hiring process\".\n\nThe goal of the job offer scam is to convince the victim to release funds or bank account information to the scammer of which there are two common methods. The first is to advise the victim that they must take a test to qualify for the job and then send links to training sites which sell testing material and e-books for a fee. The victim may also be provided with an actual on-line test which is usually a fake website created by copying questions from actual certification examinations, such as the Professional in Human Resources (PHR) certification or the Project manager's exam. if the victim pays for the study material, that will usually be the end of the scam and the scammer will break off further contact.\n\nA second, more sinister variation, is when the scammer will advise the victim they have been hired for a job and request access to bank accounts and routing numbers in order to enter the \"new hire\" into the company's payroll system. This may also involve e-mails containing fake tax forms attempting to gain the victim's social security number and other personally identifiable information. If the victim complies, their bank account will be emptied and their personal information used to commit identity theft.\n\nIn this scam, tens of thousands of solicitations in the guise of an invoice are mailed to businesses nationwide. They may contain a disclaimer such as \"This is a solicitation for the order of goods or services, or both, and not a bill, invoice, or statement of account due. You are under no obligation to make any payments on account of this offer unless you accept this offer.\" (from ) or 'THIS IS NOT A BILL. THIS IS A SOLICITATION. YOU ARE UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO PAY THE AMOUNT STATED ABOVE UNLESS YOU ACCEPT THIS OFFER.' (from USPS Domestic Mail Manual §CO31, Part 1.2) but are otherwise designed to appear to be invoices or renewals of existing display advertising in a trade directory or publication. The correspondence is formatted like an invoice, often with a sequential identification number, date, personalized description of the information to be published, payment details and total amount due which includes a token discount if paid within a specified time period. In some cases, the company's current advertisement clipped from an existing publication (such as Thomas Register, Hotel and Travel Index or Official Meeting Facilities Guide) is attached to a solicitation for advertising in an unaffiliated, rival publication which operates from a drop box.\n\nOne variant sends a \"Final Notice of Domain Listing\" from an entity calling itself \"Domain Services\", which claims \"Failure to complete your Domain name search engine registration by the expiration date may result in cancellation of this offer making it difficult for your customers to locate you on the web.\" The list of prospective victims is obtained from Internet domain whois listings and the solicitations look like a renewal of an existing domain name registration or listing. The \"registration\" actually offers nothing beyond a vague claim that the entity sending the solicitation will submit the victim's domain name to existing search engines for an inflated fee. It does not obligate the vendor to publish a directory, renew the underlying domain in any ICANN-based registry or deliver any tangible product.\n\nA similar scheme uses solicitations which appear to be invoices for local yellow pages listings or advertisements. As anyone can publish a yellow page directory, the promoted book is not the incumbent local exchange carrier's local printed directory but a rival, which may have limited distribution if it appears at all. Instead of clearly stating audited circulation, the solicitations will confusingly claim to \"offer 50000 copies\" or claim \"thousands of readers\" without indicating whether the inferred quantity of directories was actually printed, let alone sold.\n\nPublic records listing legal owners of new registered trademarks are also mined as a source of addresses for fraudulent directory solicitations.\n\nThe intent is that a small fractional percentage of businesses either mistake the solicitations for invoices (paying them) or mistake them for a request for corrections and updates to an existing listing (a tactic to obtain a businessperson's signature on the document, which serves as a pretext to bill the victim).\n\nOne such vendor, World Trade Register (aka European Trade Register, World Company Register, World Business Directory, all related to EU Business Services Ltd), claims \"To update your company profile, please print, complete and return this form. Updating is free of charge. Only sign if you want to place an insertion.\" Only later does it become clear that signing the form incurs a nearly €1000/year fee for an advertisement of questionable value.\n\nIn this scam, the confidence artist poses as a retail sales promoter, representing a manufacturer, distributor, or set of stores. The scam requires assistants to manage the purchases and money exchanges while the pitchman keeps the energy level up. Passersby are enticed to gather and listen to a pitchman standing near a mass of appealing products. The trickster entices by referring to the high-end products, but claims to be following rules that he must start with smaller items. The small items are described, and 'sold' for a token dollar amount – with as many audience participants as are interested each receiving an item. The pitchman makes an emotional appeal such as saying \"Raise your hand if you're happy with your purchase\", and when hands are raised, directs his associates to return everyone's money (they keep the product). This exchange is repeated with items of increasing value to establish the expectation of a pattern. Eventually, the pattern terminates by ending the 'auction' without reaching the high-value items, and stopping midway through a phase where the trickster retains the collected money from that round of purchases. Marks feel vaguely dissatisfied, but have goods in their possession, and the uplifting feeling of having demonstrated their own happiness several times. The marks do not realize that the total value of goods received is significantly less than the price paid in the final round. Auction/refund rounds may be interspersed with sales rounds that are not refunded, keeping marks off-balance and hopeful that the next round will refund. The Jam Auction has its roots in carny culture.\n\nThis scam occurs when exchanging foreign currency. If a large amount of cash is exchanged the victim will be told to hide the money away quickly before counting it (\"You can't trust the locals\"). A substantial amount will be missing.\n\nIn some cases, insisting on counting to make sure the money is all there is the basis for a clever scam. The scam is sometimes called the Santo Domingo Sting, after an incident that took place there, reported by a journalist, Joe Harkins, who reported his involvement, in the early 1990s. It works in countries where only banks and other designated parties are allowed to hold and exchange the local currency for US dollars at an \"official\" rate that is significantly lower than the \"street\" rate. It also requires a greedy tourist who wants to beat the official rate by dealing with illegal money changers. A person posing as an illegal money changer will approach the tourist with an offer to buy dollars at an illegal rate that may be even higher than the street rate. The changer offers to buy only large US currency, typically, a 100 dollar bill. As soon as the victim (the \"mark\") shows his $100 bill, the changer will actually count out and clearly show the promised amount of local currency. He then will push the local currency into the hands of the \"mark\" and urge they be counted as he takes the $100. \"See, you've got the money. I'll wait while you make sure. Count it out loud so there is no mistake.\" And as the mark's careful count exceeds \"street\" rate, the changer pretends to realise he has overpaid the mark, and he becomes irrationally agitated and angry, accusing the mark of cheating. He grabs his money back, pushes the mark's bill back into his hands and takes back the pesos. The scam has been completed. The tourist has just lost $99. The mark has been handed back a prefolded $1 bill that has been swapped for the mark's $100 bill while he was distracted counting the local currency. (Until recently, US currency was largely uniform in size and color, meaning that when folded, a $1 and a $100 bill were almost indistinguishable. Even in 2014, careful folding of a US$100 bill easily conceals the switch). The money changer's pretended, but very credible, anger is a ruse to confuse the mark and delay his unfolding of the single bill until the scammer has departed.\n\nThere is a fraudulent confidence trick (a form of advance-fee scam) perpetrated on people in several countries who wish to be mystery shoppers. A person is sent a money order, often from Western Union, or cheque for a larger sum than a mystery purchase he is required to make, with a request to deposit it into his bank account, use a portion for a mystery purchase and fee, and wire the remainder through a wire transfer company such as Western Union or MoneyGram; the money is to be wired immediately as response time is being evaluated. The cheque is fraudulent, and is returned unpaid by the victim's bank, after the money has been wired. One scam involved fraudulent websites using a misspelled URL to advertise online and in newspapers under a legitimate company's name. It should be remembered that this is not the only type of mystery shopping scam taking place which involves money being paid, as it has been widely reported in the UK that shoppers should \"Watch out for some online mystery shopping scams which will cost you money for either training or for signing up without the promise of any work.\"\n\nValid mystery shopping companies do not normally send their clients cheques prior to work being completed, and their advertisements usually include a contact person and phone number. Some fraudulent cheques can be identified by a financial professional. On February 3, 2009, The Internet Crime Complaint Center issued a warning on this scam. A legitimate company that occasionally sends prepayment for large transactions says \"We do occasionally fund upfront for very large spend purchases but we use cheques or direct bank transfers which should mean you can see when they are cleared and so can be sure you really do have the money.\" It is standard practice for mystery shopping providers evaluating services such as airlines to arrange for the airfare to be issued beforehand at their own expenses (usually by means of a frequent flyer reward ticket). In any case, it is unlikely that any bona-fide provider would allocate a high-value assignment to a new shopper or proactively recruit new ones for that purpose, preferring instead to work with a pool of existing pre-vetted experienced shoppers.\n\nThe pigeon drop, which is depicted early in the film \"The Sting\", involves the mark or pigeon assisting an elderly, weak or infirm stranger to keep a large sum of money safe for him. In the process, the stranger (actually a confidence trickster) puts his money with the mark's money in an envelope or briefcase, with which the mark is then to be entrusted. The container is first switched for an identical one which contains no money, and a situation is engineered giving the mark the opportunity to escape, with the money, from a perceived threat (e.g., local police or rowdies). If the mark does so, he is fleeing from his own money, which the con artist will have kept or handed off to an accomplice.\n\nA number of predatory journals target academics to solicit manuscripts for publication. The journals charge high publication fees but do not perform the functions of legitimate academic journals—editorial oversight and peer review—they simply publish the work for cash. In this case, the mark's need for publications is the incentive for them to pay the fees. In some cases, predatory journals will use fictional editorial boards or use respected academics' names without permission to lend a veneer of credibility to the journal. A curated database of predatory journals can be found at \"Scholarly Open Access\".\n\nThe victim is sent a document which looks, on its face, to be a coupon or a cheque for some small amount as \"prize winnings\". Buried in the fine print is something entirely different; an authorisation to slam the victim to an alternative telephony provider or even an authorisation for monthly direct withdrawals from the victim's bank account for \"services\" which were neither used nor desired.\n\nPsychic surgery is a con game in which the trickster uses sleight of hand to apparently remove malignant growths from the mark's body. A common form of medical fraud in underdeveloped countries, it imperils victims who may fail to seek competent medical attention. The movie \"Man on the Moon\" depicts comedian Andy Kaufman undergoing psychic surgery. It can also be seen in an episode of \"Jonathan Creek\".\n\nRainmaking is a simple scam in which the trickster promises to use their power or influence over a complex system to make it do something favourable for the mark.\n\nClassically this was promising to make it rain, but more modern examples include getting someone's app 'featured' on an app store, obtaining pass marks in a university entrance exam, obtaining a job, or a politician implying that they can use their influence to get a contract awarded to the mark.\n\nThe trickster has no actual influence on the outcome, but if the favourable outcome happens anyway they will then claim credit. \nIf the event doesn't happen of course then the trickster may be able to claim that they need more money until it finally does.\n\nA recovery room scam is a form of advance-fee fraud where the scammer (sometimes posing as a law enforcement officer or attorney) calls investors who have been sold worthless shares (for example in a boiler-room scam), and offers to buy them, to allow the investors to recover their investments. A Nigerian 419 scam victim might receive a solicitation claiming to be from the Nigeria Economic and Financial Crimes Commission or another government agency.\n\nThe scam involves requiring an advance fee before the payment can take place, for example a \"court fee\".\n\nThe red flag in the 'recovery scam' is that the supposed investigative agency, unsolicited, approaches the victim. A legitimate law enforcement agency would normally allow the victim to make the first contact, and will not solicit an advance fee. The recovery scam has the victim's number only because it is operated by an accomplice of the original scammer, using a \"sucker list\" from the earlier fraud.\n\nAn apartment is listed for rent, often on an online forum such as Craigslist or Kijiji, at or just below market value. The vendor asks for first and last month's rent up front, sometimes also asking for references or personal information from the prospective tenants. The rent payment clears the bank, the new tenants arrive with a truckload of worldly possessions on moving day to find that the same unit has been rented to multiple other new tenants and that the supposed \"landlord\" is not the owner of the property and is nowhere to be found. This kind of scam is often performed online on students planning to study abroad and seeking accommodation, as their means of checking the property are limited.\n\nThe Rip Deal is a swindle very popular in Europe and is essentially a pigeon drop confidence trick. In a typical variation scammers will target, say, a jeweler, and offer to buy some substantial amount of his wares at a large markup \"provided\" he perform some type of under-the-table cash deal, originally exchanging Swiss francs for euros. This exchange goes through flawlessly, at considerable profit for the mark. Some time later the scammers approach the mark with a similar proposition, but for a larger amount of money (and thus a larger return for the mark). His confidence and greed inspired by the previous deal, the merchant agrees—only to have his money and goods taken, by sleight-of-hand or violence, at the point of exchange. This scam was depicted in the movie \"Matchstick Men\".\n\nThe same term is used to describe a crime where a vendor (especially a drug dealer) is killed to avoid paying for goods.\n\nVarious schemes exist to bill victims for unsolicited goods or services.\n\nA common scam targeting businesses is the toner bandit swindle; an unsolicited caller attempts to trick front-office personnel into providing manufacturer/model or serial numbers for office equipment and/or the name of the employee answering the call. Often, the call will be misrepresented as a \"survey\" or a \"prize\" award. The business then receives inflated invoices for unsolicited copy paper, copy machine toner, cleaning supplies, light bulbs, trash bags or other supplies, using the name of the person who answered the call to falsely claim this person ordered the items. When the business objects, the workers are threatened with lawsuits or harassed by bogus collection agencies.\n\nAnother, targeting the elderly, claims a free medical alert device has been ordered for a patient by a family member or medical doctor. An automated message says \"that someone has ordered a free medical alert system for you, and this call is to confirm shipping instructions\" before the call is transferred to a live operator who requests the elderly patient's credit card and identity card numbers. The device is not free; there is a high monthly charge for \"monitoring\". The family didn't buy or order it, nor did a practitioner; the call is fraudulent.\n\nWedding planner scams prey on the vulnerability of young couples, during a time when they are most distracted and trusting, to embezzle funds for the planner's personal use. In the first type of fraud, the wedding planner company may offer a free wedding in a tie-up with a media station for a couple in need of charity, and collect the donations from the public that were meant for the wedding. In a second type of fraud, the planner asks couples to write checks to vendors (tents, food, cakes) but leave the name field empty, which the planner promises to fill in. As most vendors were never hired nor paid, the scam would then be exposed on the day of the wedding. A real life example is a Kansas TV station story of a wedding planner, Caitlin Hershberger Theis, who scammed three couples through her wedding planner consultancy, \"Live, Love and be Married\" using these two schemes.\n\nThe blessing scam targets elderly Chinese immigrant women, convincing them that an evil spirit threatens their family and that this threat can be removed by a blessing ceremony involving a bag filled with their savings, jewelry or other valuables. During the ceremony, the con artists switch the bag of valuables with an identical bag with valueless contents and make off with the victim's cash or jewelry.\n\nThis scam is perpetrated through the phone where the caller threatens the victim with a fictitious arrest warrant. To make this threat seem real, the caller ID identifies the caller as that of the local sheriff. Victims are told they must pay a fine to avoid arrest. Fines are in the hundreds, sometimes thousands, of dollars. The payment is requested through Western Union, Green Dot prepaid card, or similar form of untraceable currency exchange.\n\nCases have been reported in Florida, Georgia, Kansas and Oregon.\n\nIn this scam, the artists pose as ticket control staff on public transport connections. They tend to look for tourists as easy marks, and therefore target train connections from the airport. They will ask to see the passenger's tickets, and once they have found a suitable mark, will claim that something is wrong with the ticket they hold. They will then claim that an instant payment is required to avoid further legal troubles. In some cases, this scam is even committed by actual public transport staff seeking to rip off tourists.\n\nThe dropped wallet scam usually targets tourists. The con artist pretends to accidentally drop his wallet in a public place. After an unsuspecting victim picks up the wallet and offers it to the con artist, the scam begins. The artist accuses the victim of stealing money from the wallet and threatens to call the police, scaring the victim into returning the allegedly stolen money. Cases have been reported in eastern Europe and major cities or railway stations in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "26909684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26909684", "title": "Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield", "text": "Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield\n\nMississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield, 490 U.S. 30 (1989), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Indian Child Welfare Act governed adoptions of Indian children, and a tribal court had jurisdiction over a state court regardless of the location of birth of the child if the child or the natural parents resided on the reservation.\n\nFrom 1850 to about 1960, American Indian children were forcibly taken from their families and their tribes to go to Indian boarding schools, in what has been described as both efforts at assimilation and genocide. At the schools, Indian children were expected to speak English and practice Christianity; they were punished for speaking their own language. Reformers wanted the Indians to choose \"assimilation over extinction.\" In 1890 approximately 12,000 Indian children were attending Indian boarding schools, and, according to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs:\n\nThe general purpose of the Government is the preparation of Indian youth for assimilation into the national life by such a course in training as will prepare them for the duties and privileges of American citizenship.\"\n\nBy 1928 assimilation through the boarding schools was no longer popular with the public, and the Meriam Report condemned the practice of forcibly removing Indian children from their families. This type of removal ended during the 1930s.\n\nAfter World War II, the intervention of social welfare workers into overseeing Indian families resulted in another type of removal, by which Indian children were removed from their families because of what were judged poor situations and placed in foster care or for adoption. In many cases, the dominant non-Indian culture justified the removal in order to protect or rescue the children from barbarism on the reservation. Indian children were placed outside the home at a rate five times greater than for non-Indian children.\n\nIn 1978, Congress passed the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA). This law was enacted to protect tribes and their children; due to the high rate of Indian children who were being removed from their families and placed with non-Indian families, the children's Indian identities were lost and tribe survival was being threatened. In many cases, the children were removed from families who resided on Indian reservations, where the state government did not have legal jurisdiction. Many parents and children were denied due process, either by the state agency or the state court, leading to a finding by Congress that the states had failed to recognize tribal culture, relations, and standards. Congress set up both procedural and substantive provisions in the ICWA that are designed to 1) eliminate the need to remove Indian children due to cultural bias; 2) try to ensure that Indian children are placed in foster and adoptive homes that reflect Indian culture; and 3) to promote the use of tribal, rather than state, courts to adjudicate Indian child custody proceedings.\n\nThe ICWA gives the tribal court exclusive jurisdiction for children who are born or who live on tribal land, and concurrent jurisdiction with state courts in all other cases.\n\nIn 1985, a set of Indian twins were born in Harrison County, Mississippi, 200 miles from the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians. The mother had moved to Harrison County for the sole purpose of giving birth off the reservation and for placing the children with the Holyfields. The natural parents were not married, and both parents executed a consent for adoption in the Harrison County Chancery Court. The Holyfields, a non-Indian couple, adopted the twins. The state court signed a final decree of adoption in early 1986. Two months later, the tribe moved to vacate the adoption, stating that the tribal court had exclusive jurisdiction. The state trial court denied their motion, noting that the children had never lived on the reservation and were not born there. The tribe appealed to the Mississippi Supreme Court, which affirmed the trial court's decision. The tribe appealed. The Supreme Court granted certiorari.\n\nJustice William J. Brennan delivered the opinion of the court. Brennan reviewed the intent of Congress and noted that one in eight Indian children were adopted out and that 90% of those children went to non-Indian homes. He noted that for children born or residing on a reservation, the tribal court has exclusive jurisdiction. In other cases, the tribal courts have concurrent jurisdiction. In those cases, on the motion of a parent or the tribe, the matter is to be transferred to the tribal court with three exceptions - for \"good cause,\" objection to the transfer by either parent, or the declination of jurisdiction in the matter by the tribal court. He ruled that the emphasis the Mississippi Supreme Court placed on the non-reservation birth of the children and the fact that they never lived on the reservation, and the voluntary relinquishment by the natural parents was error.\n\nBoth of the natural parents resided on the reservation. A child's domicile follows that of the parent. The fact that the parents traveled 200 miles to avoid giving birth on the reservation does not serve to eliminate the tribal court's exclusive jurisdiction. Since the tribal court had such jurisdiction, the state court did not, and had no authority to enter an order of adoption. Reversed and remanded.\n\nJustice John P. Stevens, joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Anthony Kennedy dissented from the majority opinion. Stevens felt that since the parents consented to the adoption and wanted to use the state court, they should be allowed to do so. Stevens believed that the ICWA was primarily intended to apply to the involuntary removal of Indian children from their families and the tribe, and a voluntary action by parents does not have the same characteristics. Stevens would have affirmed the decision of the state courts.\n\nAfter the remand from the Supreme Court, the tribal court allowed the children to remain with their adoptive family, because “it would have been cruel to take them from the only mother they knew.” The court ordered that the children stay in contact with their natural extended family and tribe.\n\nThe case has had a large effect on family law involving Indian children, having been cited in more than 1,000 cases since the decision. It has also been extensively referenced in books and journals on Native American law.\n\nAlthough the Supreme Court was clear that the ICWA was to be applied to adoption cases based on the statute and the accompanying House Report, \"by making sure that Indian child welfare determinations are not based on \"a white, middle-class standard...\"\", state courts created an \"existing Indian family\" it allows exceptions to the application of the ICWA. In those cases, courts had held that if the child was not part of an existing Indian family, a term that was not defined anywhere in the law, then the ICWA did not apply. At one point, nearly half of the states used the exception. As of 2010, only six states use the exception. The courts now appear to be viewing tribal interests as importantly as the child's interests in these cases, and also that they have begun to consider tribal cultures, in the sense of the extended family being integral to a child's support. \n\n"}
{"id": "9002758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9002758", "title": "National Court Reporters Association", "text": "National Court Reporters Association\n\nThe National Court Reporters Association, or NCRA, is a US organization for the advancement of the profession of the court reporter, closed captioner, and realtime writer. The association holds annual conventions, seminars and forums, speed and real-time contests, and teachers' workshops to assist court reporters.\n\nReporters can join NCRA for a fee that varies depending on whether the applicant is a student, teacher, or reporter.\nMembership allows a reporter to take the certifications, get discounts on conventions, attend conferences, and have access to a network of other professionals in the field.\n\nNCRA was established in 1899 in Chicago, Illinois, United States, as the National Shorthand Reporters Association (NSRA).\nThey created standardization of ethical codes, transcript rates, and information for all shorthand reporters.\nThey published \"The Shorthand Writer\" and started the National Speed Contest, which is still held today. NCRA developed the first standardized test for court reporters to gauge their proficiency. Called the Certificate of Proficiency, it was replaced by the Registered Professional Reporter.\n\nNCRA supports individuals through education and certification, promotion of the stenographic profession throughout the legal industry, and defense of the industry in government. NCRA provides news and information to its members through email newsletters and its JCR magazine, as well as on its website. Industry professionals benefit from membership with NCRA by broadening their network, bringing them new business, personal and career enhancements, and receiving access to information and education.\n\nNCRA offers three main certifications:\n\nThey have established seven other certification programs:\n\nThe written knowledge portion of the exams is offered four times a year at Pearson VUE Professional Centers, and the skills portion of the exams is offered twice a year at NCRA-sponsored testing sites.\n\nSteno contests are held annually at the NCRA Annual Convention and Exhibition in two categories: Speed and Realtime.\n\nMark Tod Kislingbury of Houston, Texas, won the 2010 speed contest with an accuracy of 99.228% topping a field of 36 competitors. Deanna Boenau of Sarasota, Florida, won the 2010 realtime contest with an accuracy of 98.667% topping a field of 40 competitors.\n\nAlan H. Brock, RDR, CRR, of Boston, Mass., won the 2011 speed contest with an accuracy of 99.265%. JoAnn Bryce, RMR, CRR, of Castro Valley, Calif., won the 2011 realtime contest with an accuracy of 99.039%.\n\nSherry Bryant, RMR, CRR, of Harrisburg, Pa., won the 2012 speed contest with an accuracy of 99.380%. Tammy Milcowitz, RMR, CRR, CBC, CCP, of Oldsmar, Fl., won the 2012 realtime contest with an accuracy of 99.583%.\n\nDana Hayden, RMR, CRR, of Huntsville, Ark., won the 2013 Speed Contest with an accuracy of 99.569%. Jo Ann Bryce, RMR, CRR, of Castro Valley, Calif., won the 2013 realtime contest with an accuracy of 99.717%.\n\nAlthough the NCRA is not an accrediting agency, they have established general requirements and minimum standards expected of a court reporting school. The following schools have met those requirements as of 2012:\n\nAlabama\n\nArizona\n\nCalifornia\n\nColorado\n\nFlorida\n\nGeorgia\n\nIllinois\n\nIndiana\n\nKansas\n\nMichigan\n\nMinnesota\n\nMississippi\n\nMissouri\n\nNevada\n\nNew Jersey\n\nNew Mexico\n\nNew York\n\nOhio\n\nPennsylvania\n\nSouth Dakota\n\nTexas\n\nWashington\n\nWest Virginia\n\nWisconsin\n\nCanada\n"}
{"id": "43050322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43050322", "title": "POM Wonderful LLC v. Coca-Cola Co.", "text": "POM Wonderful LLC v. Coca-Cola Co.\n\nPOM Wonderful LLC v. Coca-Cola Co., 573 U.S. ___ (2014), was United States Supreme Court case that held that a statutory private right of action under the Lanham Act is not precluded by regulatory provisions of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.\n\nIn 1938, the United States Congress passed the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in order to regulate the safety of food, drugs, and cosmetics. Under the Act, the Food and Drug Administration has issued regulations governing food and beverage labeling, including the labeling of mixes of different types of juice into one juice blend. In particular, if a juice blend does not name all the juices it contains and mentions only juices that are not predominant in the blend, then it must either declare the percentage content of the named juice or \"[i]ndicate that the named juice is present as a flavor or flavoring.\"\n\nPrivate parties are not allowed to bring enforcement actions under the Act. In addition, Congress amended it in order to provide for preemption of certain State laws dealing with product misbranding.\n\nIn 1946, Congress enacted the Lanham Act in order to govern the use of trademarks. Among its stated aims was the regulation of \"commerce within the control of Congress by making actionable the deceptive and misleading use of marks in such commerce,\" and provision was made for civil enforcement actions to be available for private parties in the federal courts.\n\nPOM Wonderful was a grower of pomegranates and a distributor of pomegranate juices, including a pomegranate-blueberry juice blend. The Coca-Cola Company, through its Minute Maid division, created a pomegranate-blueberry juice product that in reality was 99.4% apple and grape juices. The front label of its package carried the words \"pomegranate blueberry\" in capital letters, below which the phrase \"flavored blend of 5 juices\" appeared in much smaller type, followed in still smaller type by \"from concentrate with added ingredients and other natural flavors\" (presented over two lines).\n\nPOM brought suit under the Lanham Act in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that the name, label, marketing, and advertising of Coca-Cola's juice blend misled consumers as to its actual content, thereby causing POM to lose sales.\n\nThe District Court granted partial summary judgment to Coca-Cola, ruling that the FDCA and its regulations preclude challenges to the name and the label of Coca-Cola's juice blend. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed in the relevant part.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit ruling was reversed and remanded. In a unanimous decision written by Justice Kennedy, the Court held:\n\nThe case went back to the California federal district court and eventually proceeded to jury trial, where it was established that Coca Cola Co.'s Minute Maid \"Enhanced Pomegranate Blueberry Flavored 100% Juice Blend\" was 99.4% apple and grape juices and only 0.3% pomegranate juice, 0.2% blueberry juice, and 0.1% raspberry juice.\n\nOn March 18, 2016, POM made its closing arguments, and the case went to the jury. with POM claiming losses of $10 million per year from 2007 to 2014 (totaling more than $77 million) caused by Coca-Cola's Minute Maid pomegranate and blueberry juice drink misleading labeling and advertising. On March 21, 2016, the California jury unanimously rejected POM's claim that the labeling of Minute Maid's pomegranate-blueberry juice blend (which did comply with FDA labeling requirements) was either misleading or unfair competition and found that the labeling did not mislead a substantial portion of consumers, in favor of Coca-Cola, ending eight years of litigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "19649351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649351", "title": "Partial agreement", "text": "Partial agreement\n\nPartial agreement is a term used within the Council of Europe to refer to a major activity of European cooperation that is organised by the Council of Europe but does not include all of its member states. This form of activity dates from a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on 2 August 1951. The resolution allowed for the adoption of agreements by a limited number of member states, without the participation of the remainder. Any expenditure would be made by the participating states alone. This form of variable geometry in intergovernmental cooperation has not been imitated by other international organisations. This form of cooperation also allows some activities to include non-European states as full-fledged participants.\n\nIn 1993 the ground-rules were revised by the Committee of Ministers to take into account new developments. Statutory Resolution (93) 28 of the Committee of Ministers replaced the 1951 resolution. It defines three types of agreement:\n\n- A partial agreement: some member States of the Council of Europe;\n\n- An enlarged partial agreement: some member States with one or more non-member states;\n\n- An enlarged agreement: all member States with one or more non-member states. \n\nThe Council of Europe currently lists its agreements as the following:\n\n- The Council of Europe Development Bank (1956)\n\n- Partial Agreement in the Social and Public Health Field (1959)\n- The European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines (1964)\n\n- The Pompidou Group - Cooperation Group to Combat Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking in Drugs (1980) \n\n- EUR-OPA - The European and Mediterranean Major Hazards Agreement (1987)\n\n- The North-South Centre (1989)\n\n- Eurimages - The European Support Fund for the co-production and distribution of films (1988)\n\n- The Venice Commission) - The European Commission for Democracy through Law (1990)\n\n- The Youth Card (1991)\n\n- The European Audiovisual Observatory (1992)\n\n- The Centre for Modern Languages in Graz\n\n- GRECO - The Group of States Against Corruption (1998)\n\n- The Enlarged Partial Agreement on Sport (2007)\n\nPartial agreements are traditionally set up with a resolution of the Committee of Ministers. The European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines, which is usually listed as a Partial Agreement, falls outside of this definition, being the result of a treaty, and is thus technically a treaty body, such as the European Social Charter organs. \n\nThere is one agreement, the European Card for Substantially Handicapped Persons, dating from 1977, which was still-born, having never attracted sufficient interest from member states and so was never implemented.\n\nEach agreement has its own form of supervision and management. A number of the agreements are supervised by the Committee of Ministers, others have their own executive boards.\n\nIn 2007, the activities of the public health partial agreement were transferred to the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines, despite the fact that the member states were not the same.\n\nThe latest agreement, on sport, heralds a new development, deals with an activity that had always been a mainstream intergovernmental activity but was relegated to a partial agreement to avoid it being axed altogether.\n\nThe Venice Commission is unique as being the one agreement which began life as a partial agreement and, being of its success, had to drop the qualifier 'Partial', when the last remaining member state decided to join up.\n\nThe Council of Europe treaty office issues regularly updated information on all partial and enlarged agreements, listing all member states, observers, dates of accession and reference texts. \n\nPolakiewicz, J.: Treaty making in the Council of Europe (1999)\n"}
{"id": "24545994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24545994", "title": "Richard Labunski", "text": "Richard Labunski\n\nRichard Labunski is an American journalism professor at the University of Kentucky and newspaper columnist who is an outspoken advocate for reforming the United States Constitution in his book \"The Second Constitutional Convention\". He has been a critic of voter apathy, low voter turnout, and excessive campaign spending. Labunski's book \"James Madison and the Struggle for the Bill of Rights\" (2006) argued that Madison was initially lukewarm to the idea of a Bill of Rights to the Constitution, but later came to energetically support the ten amendments and worked hard for their inclusion. He has called for a Second Constitutional Convention of the United States, and argued that reform will not happen through the current system because Congress would be reluctant to \"limit its own powers.\"\n\nLabunski received a B.A. in political science from the University of California, Berkeley, an M.A. and Ph.D. in political science from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and a law degree from Seattle University. He worked as a radio and television reporter, producer, and editor at WTOP Radio (Washington, D.C.); KCBS Radio (San Francisco); KGUN-TV (Tucson); and KTVN-TV (Reno). He taught at the University of Washington for 11 years, as well as at Penn State University. He has been at the University of Kentucky since 1995 as a professor in the School of Journalism and Telecommunications.\n\nIn \"The Second Constitutional Convention\" (2000), Labunski proposed communication via the Internet as a way for Americans to organize a federal constitutional convention with a website serving as a \"national meeting spot, a sort of cyberspace town meeting where people can get information.\" Labunski joins scholars such as Larry Sabato and Dana D. Nelson and Sanford Levinson as well as newspaper columnists such as David Sirota who have called for serious reform of American politics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40977495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40977495", "title": "Rooftop slum", "text": "Rooftop slum\n\nRooftop Slum (Chinese: ) or penthouse slum generally refers to illegal housing on the rooftops of apartment buildings. In Hong Kong, some poor people are unable to afford traditional apartments, and they are forced to wait years for affordable public housing. They are forced to seek alternatives, like living in illegal huts on top of buildings. According to the Hong Kong Population Census, there were about 3,982 rooftop dwellers in 2006, and are now estimated in the 10's of thousands, most of whom were found in the old Kowloon districts of Sham Shui Po, Kwun Tong, and Tai Kok Tsui.\n\nA housing crisis developed in the 1950s and 1960s when a large number of refugees left mainland China and moved to Hong Kong, creating a large, unmet demand for affordable housing options.\n\nBlockhouse (Chinese: 木屋) and rooftop slums, which are low cost and offer poor living environments, became more prevalent in Hong Kong beginning in the early 1970s. In the 1970s to 1980s, there was significant economic development which also brought increased housing costs. The government continued to be unaware of the need for affordable housing for its citizens, creating greater pressure for people to find low rent options, like rooftop slums.\nRising rental costs, the lack of affordable housing, and length of time to get into public housing means that people continue to live in rooftop slums.\n\nThe cubicle dwellings, generally built atop tenement buildings of the 1950s and 1960s, range from may be built with concrete and brick walls, while others are built like shanties out of wood and tin. Between the shanties are narrow passageways. Some may have an area for growing plants or vegetables. There may be a common area to dry laundry. The sturdier buildings may have air conditioning units. The Hoi On Building in Tai Kok Tsui had 100 people living on the rooftop before it was leveled for new development, part of redevelopment projects made easier through a new policy that allows new construction of apartment buildings or shopping centers on the sites of old buildings. People that are removed from the rooftop neighborhood may end up having to live in an industrial building in a cage or cubicle.\n\n\"Legal\" apartments sell for more than HK$ million, while the rooftop slum dwellings generally sell on a grey market for less than HK$50,000. The shanty homes are contrasted against legal apartments of Hong Kong, the \"world's most expensive luxury city\".\n\nMany people have lived in rooftop dwelling for 30 years. Newer residents are from other Asian countries, like Nepal or Pakistan, or from mainland China.\n\nOne of the repercussions of rooftop slums is poor hygiene due to water leakage: the dwellings are generally made of non-water resistant materials, like wood, and there are no drainage systems for rainwater. Further complicating hygiene is the presence of rats, cockroaches, flies, and mosquitoes on the crowded, dirty rooftops, that spread diseases and contaminate food.\n\nThe slums become a breeding place for viruses and bacteria and dwellers are susceptible to infectious and respiratory illnesses. Temperature of slums is higher than the exterior due to poor ventilation system and energy-absorbing metal.\n\nAs there is no elevator, dwellers need to walk the stairs to their high-up home, which is difficult for elderly, particularly if they have joint problems.\n\nBecause the dwellings are made of lightweight materials, they are not designed to withstand heavy storms and typhoons. Fire is also a danger, especially for buildings with a single exit versus a double exit. Buildings with single fire exits are tagged for top priority demolition due to the danger.\n\nEscaping the rooftop in a hurry is further challenged by narrow passageways encumbered by possessions. Another safety risk is the weight that the rooftop dweller place on the building that was not designed to accommodate the rooftop slums.\n\nAlso, metal easily becomes rusty under high temperature and humidity, staining walls and furniture.\n\nRooftop slums are a series of tightly placed dwellings. There can be more than one hundred people living on one rooftop in dwellings that can only accommodate a few pieces of furniture and electrical appliances. The crowded conditions, with limited facilities, makes for a poor living environment.\n\nRooftop slum dwellers usually have a low self-esteem and quality of life. Complaints include feeling as if people look down on them for where they live and feeling unhappy to have no choice but to live in the old, dilapidated houses.\n\nAs the rooftop slums are unauthorized buildings, dwellers constantly worry about demolition of their home. Some claim that they’d rather be dead if they have to live in a new place.\n\nThe plight of several thousands or tens of thousands of people living in rooftop slums is gaining media attention, but there are still not enough safe, affordable housing options for Hong Kong's citizens. Because there is an inadequate supply of housing, removing people from their rooftop dwellings isn't a viable option. So, the Hong Kong government has few options in the short term. Social worker Sze Lai-Shan, who works for the Society for Community Organization and has urged the government to provide more public rental housing, said: \nThere is insufficient public housing to meet the demand. There are about 15,000 new apartment units built every year, but there are more than 300,000 people on the waiting list for public housing. The available housing may be out on the outlying islands surrounding Hong Kong. Even if rooftops’ families are assigned a regular apartment, the cost of transportation to work or their children's school, such as a school in Kowloon that have a \"program designed to help ethnic minorities and new immigrants learn Cantonese,\" may prevent them from being able to leave the slums. Some wish to stay in their illegal dwelling because of the easy access to the city and beautiful views.\n"}
{"id": "37242327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37242327", "title": "Rowe v Vale of White Horse DC", "text": "Rowe v Vale of White Horse DC\n\nRowe v Vale of White Horse DC [2003] EWHC 388 (Admin) is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning the nature of an enrichment.\n\nMr Rowe did not get charged for sewerage from 1982 to 1995 because of administrative error and till 2001 because the Vale of White Horse District Council was unsure whether it had legal power to operate the local sewerage station. In 2001 the District Council found it did have the power, and in March it wrote demanding payment since 1995. Mr Rowe said he had no idea there would be a charge beyond his council and water rates, and applied for judicial review.\n\nLightman J, treating the case as a private law question of whether the Council was entitled to payment, held that there was enrichment through an incontrovertible benefit, but was no right because there was no unjust factor. It was common ground that a benefit was received and there was no defence of change of position. There is enrichment if services are either freely accepted or there is an incontrovertible benefit. Although the Council argued that Mr Rowe freely accepted the services, there was no acquiescence in their supply for a consideration. The council could not suggest an unjust factor, e.g. mistake on the part of the council. He cited G&J para 1-019 to say that if a reasonable person ought to have known that someone would have expected payment, but did not take a reasonable opportunity to reject them, then he will be considered enriched. And normally a ratepayer will think he must pay for services, but this case was different.\n\n"}
{"id": "41393440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41393440", "title": "Saleh v. Bush", "text": "Saleh v. Bush\n\nSaleh v. Bush was a class action lawsuit filed in 2013 against high-ranking members of the George W. Bush administration (including George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, Condi Rice, Colin Powell, and Paul Wolfowitz) for their alleged involvement in premeditating and carrying out the Iraq War. In December 2014, the district court hearing the case ordered it dismissed with prejudice. The dismissal was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit.\n\nThe lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California by lawyer Inder Comar, and the lead plaintiff is Sundus Shaker Saleh, an Iraqi expatriate. Plaintiffs alleged that the defendants conspired to wage a war of aggression against the Iraqi people, a violation of the Nuremberg Principles. Plaintiffs specially claimed the primary purpose of the Iraq War was to enact regime change in Iraq, as distinct from national self defense. In pursuit of this goal, the defendants are alleged to have: planned the war as early as 1998; capitalized on the September 11 attacks in 2001 to ramp up support for the invasion; utilized fear tactics and intentional misinformation; entered Iraq without fully proper UN Security Council authorization. The United States Department of Justice (DOJ) represented the defendants, who are all former government officials. \n\nThe government moved the dismiss the suit, and in December 2014, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California dismissed the suit with prejudice. The court substituted the United States as the sole defendant in place of the individual government officials, citing the Westfall Act, which provides that \"the exclusive remedy for torts committed by Government employees in the scope of their employment\" in an action against the government itself under the Federal Tort Claims Act. \n\nThe court noted that the Attorney General had formally certified that the individual defendants \"were acting within the scope of their federal employment when performing the acts at issue.\" The court then dismissed the lawsuit because the plaintiffs had failed to exhaust administrative remedies as required under the FTCA for claims against the government, a jurisdictional requirement.\n\nPlaintiffs filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. A group of international lawyers (including former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark) filed an amicus brief in support of the plaintiffs.\n\nOn July 22, 2016, the plaintiffs filed a motion for judicial notice, submitting excerpts from the Chilcot Report in support of their claims. \n\nOral argument was held on December 12, 2016, before Judges Susan Graber, Andrew Hurwitz, and Richard Boulware, heard thirty minutes of oral arguments on December 12, 2016. \n\nOn February 10, 2017, the Ninth Circuit unanimously affirmed the judgment in an opinion by Judge Graber.\n"}
{"id": "32476277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32476277", "title": "Samuel Winslow (patentee)", "text": "Samuel Winslow (patentee)\n\nIn 1641, Samuel Winslow was granted the first patent in North America by the Massachusetts General Court for a new process for making salt.\n\n"}
{"id": "14599808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14599808", "title": "Tax efficiency", "text": "Tax efficiency\n\nA financial process is said to be tax efficient if it is taxed at a lower rate than an alternative financial process that achieves the same end.\n\nPassing one's assets onto one's heirs using a Grantor Retained Annuity Trust, for example, is potentially more tax efficient than simply letting the heirs inherit the assets directly.\n\nAnother example: An exchange-traded fund (ETF) that follows the S&P 500 Index generates fewer \"taxable events\" than a mutual fund that follows the same index.\n"}
{"id": "38173201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38173201", "title": "The Laws of New Zealand", "text": "The Laws of New Zealand\n\nThe Laws of New Zealand is an encyclopaedic work which is a New Zealand equivalent of \"Halsbury's Laws of England\".\nAuthors, who include Judges, academics, and senior members of the New Zealand legal profession, were appointed by the founding Editor-in-Chief, Lord Cooke of Thorndon. After October 2007, all new authors are approved by the current Editor-in-Chief, Justice John McGrath of the Supreme Court of New Zealand. The authors give the publication its authority through their specialist and practical knowledge of New Zealand law. It was accordingly intended to be recognized as a work of extremely high quality.\n\nThe work consists of approximately 150 titles distributed in approximately 40 ring binders with other binders providing for the service updates which are produced quarterly. The work is also available online and on CD, with the service updates in those media being consolidated into the titles. Several individual titles are reissued each year.\n"}
{"id": "1760530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760530", "title": "Three-tier system (alcohol distribution)", "text": "Three-tier system (alcohol distribution)\n\nThe three-tier system of alcohol distribution is the system for distributing alcoholic beverages set up in the United States after the repeal of Prohibition. The three tiers are importer or producers, distributors, and retailers. The basic structure of the system is that producers can sell their products only to wholesale distributors who then sell to retailers, and only retailers may sell to consumers. Producers include brewers, wine makers, distillers and importers.\n\nSome states chose to become alcoholic beverage control jurisdictions after Prohibition. In these states, part or all of the distribution tier, and sometimes also the retailing tier, are operated by the state government itself (or by contractors operating under its authority) rather than by independent private entities.\n\nThe only state with a privately operated retailing and distribution system that does not require any form of three-tier system is the State of Washington. In Washington, retailers may purchase alcoholic beverages directly from producers, may negotiate volume discounts, and may warehouse their inventory themselves. However, the three-tier system largely remains in fact a reality in Washington despite the lack of a law requiring it.\n\nIn 1933 the 18th Amendment was repealed by the 21st Amendment. (Previously, the 18th Amendment had outlawed alcohol in the US in 1919 and led to Prohibition in 1920.) Section 2 of the 21st Amendment specifies that the power to control alcohol resides with the states, leaving each state to decide when and how to repeal Prohibition.\n\nAfter Prohibition, the states began to seek methods to regulate and control the alcohol industry. The states were also eager to devise a method to levy and collect taxes on alcohol producers. Both of these concerns led to the states individually creating environments in which single ownership of all three tiers (production, distribution and retail) was entirely or partly prohibited. As states were left by the 21st Amendment to regulate themselves, alcohol laws and the nature of the three tier system can vary significantly from state to state.\n\nStates have various exceptions to this rule, the most prevalent one being the case of a brewpub, which is simultaneously a producer and retailer, and has no requirement to sell to a distributor. Some states allow an entity to have a part in two of the tiers, letting small breweries act as their own distributor, for example. Many states permit wineries to sell bottles of wine on-site to customers.\n\nUsually producers will give a distributor exclusive rights to market their product within a geographical area, so that there will not, for example, be two distributors of Anheuser-Busch products competing against each other.\n\nRules also vary according to what kind of relationships each of the tiers can enter into with the other two tiers. For example, a producer may not be allowed to give promotional items or services to a retailer. Another example is that a beer distributor might be responsible for setting up and maintaining draft lines in a restaurant, or may be legally prohibited from doing so, depending on the state.\n\nAlso, several states are alcoholic beverage control states - in any of these jurisdictions state governments maintain a monopoly on the distribution tier of the system (at least for distilled beverages). Some (such as Utah and Pennsylvania) monopolize the distribution \"and\" retail tiers. Those that maintain monopolies over the distribution system only (such as Michigan) could still be said to have a three-tier system – in such states producers sell to the distributor (in these cases, the state as opposed to a private operator) who in turn sells to private retail outlets.\n\nA substantial exception to the three-tier system is the State of Washington. In November 2011, voters in Washington approved Initiative 1183, which dismantled the state-operated retailing system and removed the legal requirement for a three-tier distribution system for alcoholic beverage sales. Under the modified law, the prior state-operated liquor retailing system was eliminated in favor of heavily taxed private retailing. By a substantial margin, Washington has the highest liquor tax rate in the nation. With a liquor tax rate around $35 per gallon, its liquor tax is about 50% higher than in Oregon, which has the next highest rate. In Washington, retailers may bypass distributors by purchasing directly from producers, may negotiate volume discounts, and may warehouse their inventory themselves. Private retailing began on June 1, 2012. Although private retailing should increase competition in principle, in many cases producers have entered into exclusive marketing agreements with distributors for the market region, to the extent that each brand is often only available from a single distributor in the state (although large retailers such as Costco have been able to take some advantage of the law and in some cases have introduced their own house brands). Contrary to the fears of some in the political process, the number of drunk-driving arrests and alcohol-related motor vehicle accidents actually dropped in the year after the conversion to the new system.\n\nA different type of exception to the three-tier system is in Oklahoma, whose laws have historically mandated a \"four-tier\" system for package sales of beer of greater than 3.2% alcohol by weight (4.0% by volume). Brewers in that state have historically been prohibited from selling to distributors; they instead must sell to brokers, who in turn sell to distributors. Following the passage of a voter referendum in 2016, the broker and distributor levels will be effectively merged effective on October 1, 2018, resulting in the three-tier system common to the rest of the U.S.\n\nWine and Spirits Wholesalers of America (WSWA), an influential trade organization and lobby group based in Washington, D.C. that works to oppose initiatives to alter the three-tier model, contends that wholesalers not only sell alcohol but also perform state functions and are in the business of encouraging social responsibility concerning alcohol.\n\nThe National Association of Wine Retailers (NAWR) is a group which represents the wine retail industry, advocating the free movement of wine across state lines. They generally oppose the view advocated by the WSWA.\n\nA similar use of a three-tier system is enforced for tobacco products in some jurisdictions. In June 2017, tobacco wholesalers proposed that the three-tier system also be imposed for recreational marijuana in Massachusetts. They argued that this would improve tax collection enforcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39472607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39472607", "title": "University and State Library Düsseldorf", "text": "University and State Library Düsseldorf\n\nThe University and State Library Düsseldorf (, abbreviated ULB Düsseldorf) is a central service institution of Heinrich Heine University. Along with Bonn and Münster, it is also one of the three State Libraries of North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1969, the University and Library Düsseldorf gradually developed out of the Medical Academy in Düsseldorf. There is no real founding year of the ULB, but the foundation stone for an integrated library system was laid when the former State and City Library of Düsseldorf was taken over by the university in 1970 and merged with the Central Library of the former Medical Academy.\n\nThe ULB consists of one central library and four decentralized locations. Management and media processing are organized centrally. Catalogues, databases, e-books and e-journals are accessible throughout the whole university as well as at home via the library network.\n\nThe ULB houses one of the largest collections of works by and about Thomas Mann. It was established by the Germanist and bookseller Hans-Otto Mayer and not only comprises editions of complete works, rare first publications, manuscripts and translations into more than 40 languages but also secondary literature including an extensive archive of excerpts. Special catalogues have been written for detailed research in these large holdings. The collection is extended constantly.\n\nThe scripts that are kept in the ULB reach back to the 8th century. They largely come from holdings of Rhenish or Westphalian convents and preserve mainly liturgical and theological texts. Thus, one can find sources of inestimable value for numerous academic disciplines.\n\nNearly 1000 incunabula can be found in the holdings of the ULB. These valuable specimens, among them unica and fragments of seldomly preserved \"consume literature\", show the beginnings of the art of printing. They originate predominantly from workshops of Rhenish or Dutch printers and offer a rich panorama of the regional book production at the beginning of the modern era.\n\nIn other collections, the ULB unites rare, valuable and unique parts of holdings that are installed as an ensemble. Deposita, unpublished works, donations, acquisition of rare books etc. were and are an important source for the constant growth of the library. These treasures and specialties - beyond their academic value - also contribute substantially to the profile of the ULB.\n\n"}
{"id": "3024258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3024258", "title": "Volenti non fit injuria", "text": "Volenti non fit injuria\n\nVolenti non fit iniuria (or injuria) (Latin: \"to a willing person, injury is not done\") is a common law doctrine which states that if someone willingly places themselves in a position where harm might result, knowing that some degree of harm might result, they are not able to bring a claim against the other party in tort or delict. \"Volenti\" applies only to the risk which a reasonable person would consider them as having assumed by their actions; thus a boxer consents to being hit, and to the injuries that might be expected from being hit, but does not consent to (for example) his opponent striking him with an iron bar, or punching him outside the usual terms of boxing. \"Volenti\" is also known as a \"voluntary assumption of risk.\"\n\n\"Volenti\" is sometimes described as the plaintiff \"consenting to run a risk.\" In this context, \"volenti\" can be distinguished from legal consent in that the latter can prevent some torts arising in the first place. For example, consent to a medical procedure prevents the procedure from being a trespass to the person, or consenting to a person visiting one's land prevents them from being a trespasser.\n\nVolenti non fit injuria is an often-quoted form of the legal maxim formulated by the Roman jurist Ulpian which reads in original: \"Nulla iniuria est, quæ in volentem fiat.\"\n\nIn English tort law, \"volenti\" is a full defence, i.e. it fully exonerates the defendant who succeeds in proving it. The defence has two main elements:\n\n\nIt is not easy for a defendant to show both elements and therefore comparative negligence usually constitutes a better defence in many cases. Note however that comparative negligence is a partial defence, i.e. it usually leads to a reduction of payable damages rather than a full exclusion of liability. Also, the person consenting to an act may not always be negligent: a bungee jumper may take the greatest possible care not to be injured, and if he is, the defence available to the organiser of the event will be \"volenti\", not comparative negligence.\n\nConsent to medical treatment or consent to risky sports on the part of the claimant excludes liability in tort where that consent is informed consent.\n\nThe similar principle in US law is known as assumption of risk.\n\nIn Canada, the \"volenti\" principles applies in much the same way as under English law. The leading Canadian cases on point are \"Dube v. Labar\", [1986] 1 SCR 649 and \"Hall v. Hebert\", [1993] 2 SCR 159.\n\nThe Occupiers' Liability Act 1984 requires all owners of property to take reasonable steps to make their premises safe for anyone who enters them, even those who enter as trespassers, if they are aware of a risk on the premises. However, the doctrine of \"volenti\" has been applied to cases where a trespasser exposed themselves deliberately to risk:\nIn the first case (decided before the Occupier's Liability Act was passed), a girl who had trespassed on the railway was hit by a train. The House of Lords ruled that the fencing around the railway was adequate, and the girl had voluntarily accepted the risk by breaking through it. In the second case, a student who had broken into a closed swimming-pool and injured himself by diving into the shallow end was similarly held responsible for his own injuries. The third case involved a man who dived into a shallow lake, despite the presence of \"No Swimming\" signs; the signs were held to be an adequate warning.\n\nThe defence of \"volenti\" is now excluded by statute where a passenger was injured as a result of agreeing to take a lift from a drunk car driver. However, in a well-known case of \"Morris v Murray\" [1990] 3 All ER 801 (Court of Appeal), \"volenti\" was held to apply to a drunk passenger, who accepted a lift from a drunk pilot. The pilot died in the resulting crash and the passenger who was injured, sued his estate. Although he drove the pilot to the airfield (which was closed at the time) and helped him start the engine and tune the radio, he argued that he did not freely and voluntarily consent to the risk involved in flying. The Court of Appeal held that there was consent: the passenger was not so drunk as to fail to realise the risks of taking a lift from a drunk pilot, and his actions leading up to the flight demonstrated that he voluntarily accepted those risks.\n\nFor reasons of policy, the courts are reluctant to criticise the behaviour of rescuers. A rescuer would not be considered \"volens\" if:\n\n\nAn example of such a case is \"Haynes v. Harwood\" [1935] 1 KB 146, in which a policeman was able to recover damages after being injured restraining a bolting horse: he had a legal and moral duty to protect life and property and as such was not held to have been acting as a volunteer or giving willing consent to the action - it was his contractual obligation as an employee and police officer and moral necessity as a human being to do so, and not a wish to volunteer, which caused him to act. In this case the court of appeal affirmed a judgement in favor of a policeman who had been injured in stopping some runaway horses with a van in a crowded street. The policeman who was on duty, not in the street, but in a police station, darted out and was crushed by one of the horses which fell upon him while he was stopping it. It was also held that the rescuer's act need not be instinctive in order to be reasonable, for one who deliberately encounters peril after reflection may often be acting more reasonably than one who acts upon impulse.\n\nBy contrast, in \"Cutler v. United Dairies\" [1933] 2 KB 297 a man who was injured trying to restrain a horse was held to be \"volens\" because in that case no human life was in immediate danger and he was not under any compelling duty to act.\n\nAlso, although to be a \"neighbour\" within Lord Atkin's dictum, a claimant must be \"so closely and directly affected by one's act that one ought reasonably to have them in contemplation\", rescuers are invariably deemed to be neighbours, even if their presence would objectively seem to be somewhat unlikely - \"Baker v Hopkins\" [1959] 3 All ER 225 (CA).\n\nExamples of cases where a reliance on \"volenti\" was unsuccessful include:\nIn the first case, the plaintiff was an instructor who was injured while teaching the defendant to drive. The defence of \"volenti\" failed: that is, because the plaintiff specifically inquired if the defendant's insurance covered him before agreeing to teach. In the second case, a doctor went in to try to rescue workmen who were caught in a well after having succumbed to noxious fumes. He did so despite being warned of the danger and told to wait until the fire brigade arrived. The doctor and the workmen all died. The court held that it would be \"unseemly\" to hold the doctor to have consented to the risk simply because he acted promptly and bravely in an attempt to save lives.\n\nGenerally courts are reluctant to recognise voluntary assumption of risk. An example of a court reluctant to find a voluntary assumption of risk includes Carey v Lake Macquarie City Council [2007] NSWCA 4. Instead the conduct amounted to contributory negligence, which is not a complete defence.\n\n"}
{"id": "608199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608199", "title": "War of aggression", "text": "War of aggression\n\nA war of aggression, sometimes also war of conquest, is a military conflict waged without the justification of self-defense, usually for territorial gain and subjugation. The phrase is distinctly modern and diametrically opposed to the prior legal international standard of \"might makes right\", under the medieval and pre-historic beliefs of right of conquest. Since the Korean War of the early 1950s, waging such a war of aggression is a crime under the customary international law. Possibly the first trial for waging aggressive war is that of the Sicilian king Conradin in 1268.\n\nWars without international legality (i.e. not out of self-defense nor sanctioned by the United Nations Security Council) can be considered wars of aggression; however, this alone usually does not constitute the definition of a war of aggression; certain wars may be unlawful but not aggressive (a war to settle a boundary dispute where the initiator has a reasonable claim, and limited aims, is one example).\n\nIn the judgment of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, which followed World War II, \"War is essentially an evil thing. Its consequences are not confined to the belligerent states alone, but affect the whole world. To initiate a war of aggression, therefore, is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\" \nArticle 39 of the United Nations Charter provides that the UN Security Council shall determine the existence of any act of aggression and \"shall make recommendations, or decide what measures shall be taken in accordance with Articles 41 and 42, to maintain or restore international peace and security\".\n\nThe Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court refers to the crime of aggression as one of the \"most serious crimes of concern to the international community\", and provides that the crime falls within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC). However, the Rome Statute stipulates that the ICC may not exercise its jurisdiction over the crime of aggression until such time as the states parties agree on a definition of the crime and set out the conditions under which it may be prosecuted. At the Review Conference on June 11, 2010 a total of 111 State Parties to the Court agreed by consensus to adopt a resolution accepting the definition of the crime and the conditions for the exercise of jurisdiction over this crime. The relevant amendments to the Statute, however has not been entered into force yet as of May 14, 2012.\n\nThe origin of the concept, Maguire argues, emerged from the debate on Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles of 1919: \"Germany accepts the responsibility of Germany and her allies for causing all the loss and damage to which the Allied and Associated Governments and their nationals have been subjected as a consequence of the war imposed upon them by the aggression of Germany and her allies.\" Maguire argues: \n\nTwo Conventions for the Definition of Aggression were signed in London on 3 and 4 July 1933. The first was signed by Czechoslovakia, Romania, the Soviet Union, Turkey and Yugoslavia, and came into effect on 17 February 1934, when it was ratified by all of them but Turkey. The second was signed by Afghanistan (ratified 20 October 1933), Estonia (4 December), Latvia (4 December), Persia (16 November), Poland (16 October), Romania (16 October), the Soviet Union (16 October) and Turkey, which ratified both treaties on 23 March 1934. Finland acceded to the second convention on 31 January 1934. The second convention was the first to be registered with the League of Nations Treaty Series on 29 March 1934, while the first was registered on 26 April. As Lithuania refused to sign any treaty including Poland, she signed the definition of aggression in a separate pact with the Soviet Union on 5 July 1933, also in London, and exchanged ratifications on 14 December. It was registered in the Treaty Series on 16 April 1934.\n\nThe signatories of both treaties were also signatories of the Kellogg–Briand Pact prohibiting aggression, and were seeking an agreed definition of the latter. Czechoslovakia, Romania and Yugoslavia were members of the Little Entente, and their signatures alarmed Bulgaria, since the definition of aggression clearly covered its support of the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization. Both treaties base their definition on the \"Politis Report\" of the Committee of Security Questions made 24 March 1933 to the Conference for the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments, in answer to a proposal of the Soviet delegation. The Greek politician Nikolaos Politis was behind the inclusion of \"support for armed bands\" as a form of aggression. Ratifications for both treaties were deposited in Moscow, as the convention was primarily the work of Maxim Litvinov, the Soviet signatory. The convention defined an act of aggression as follows:\n\nThe League prerogative under that convention to expel a League member found guilty of aggression was used by the League Assembly only once, against the Soviet government itself, on December 14, 1939, following the Soviet invasion of Finland.\n\nPrimary documents:\n\nIn 1945, the London Charter of the International Military Tribunal defined three categories of crimes, including \"crimes against peace\". This definition was first used by Finland to prosecute the political leadership in the war-responsibility trials in Finland. The principles were later known as the Nuremberg Principles.\n\nIn 1950, the Nuremberg Tribunal defined Crimes against Peace, in Principle VI, specifically Principle VI(a), submitted to the United Nations General Assembly, as:\nSee: \"Nuremberg Trials:\" \"The legal basis for the jurisdiction of the court was that defined by the Instrument of Surrender of Germany, political authority for Germany had been transferred to the Allied Control Council, which having sovereign power over Germany could choose to punish violations of international law and the laws of war. Because the court was limited to violations of the laws of war, it did not have jurisdiction over crimes that took place before the outbreak of war on September 1, 1939.\"\n\nFor committing this crime, the Nuremberg Tribunal sentenced a number of persons responsible for starting World War II. One consequence of this is that nations who are starting an armed conflict must now argue that they are either exercising the right of self-defense, the right of collective defense, or – it seems – the enforcement of the criminal law of \"jus cogens\". It has made formal declaration of war uncommon after 1945.\n\nReading the Tribunal's final judgment in court, British alternate judge Norman Birkett said:\n\nAssociate Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas charged that the Allies were guilty of \"substituting power for principle\" at Nuremberg. \"I thought at the time and still think that the Nuremberg trials were unprincipled,\" he wrote. \"Law was created ex post facto to suit the passion and clamor of the time.\"\n\nThe relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations mentioned in the RSICC article 5.2 were framed to include the Nuremberg Principles. The specific principle is \"Principle VI.a\" \"Crimes against peace\", which was based on the provisions of the London Charter of the International Military Tribunal that was issued in 1945 and formed the basis for the post World War II war crime trials. The Charters provisions based on the Nuremberg Principle VI.a are:\n\nThe Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, signed in Rio de Janeiro on September 2, 1947, included a clear definition of aggression. Article 9 stated:\n\nIn addition to other acts which the Organ of Consultation may characterize as aggression, the following shall be considered as such:\nThe discussions on definition of aggression under the UN began in 1950, following the outbreak of the Korean War. As the western governments, headed by Washington, were in favor of defining the governments of North Korea and the People's Republic of China as aggressor states, the Soviet government proposed to formulate a new UN resolution defining aggression and based on the 1933 convention. As a result, on November 17, 1950, the General Assembly passed resolution 378, which referred the issue to be defined by the International Law Commission. The commission deliberated over this issue in its 1951 session and due to large disagreements among its members, decided \"that the only practical course was to aim at a general and abstract definition (of aggression)\". However, a tentative definition of aggression was adopted by the commission on June 4, 1951, which stated:\n\nAggression is the use of force by a State or Government against another State or Government, in any manner, whatever the weapons used and whether openly or otherwise, for any reason or for any purpose other than individual or collective self-defence or in pursuance of a decision or recommendation by a competent organ of the United Nations.\nOn December 14, 1974, the United Nations General Assembly adopted Resolution 3314, which defined the crime of aggression. This definition is not binding as such under international law, though it may reflect customary international law.\n\nThis definition makes a distinction between \"aggression\" (which \"gives rise to international responsibility\") and \"war of aggression\" (which is \"a crime against international peace\"). Acts of aggression are defined as armed invasions or attacks, bombardments, blockades, armed violations of territory, permitting other states to use one's own territory to perpetrate acts of aggression and the employment of armed irregulars or mercenaries to carry out acts of aggression. A war of aggression is a series of acts committed with a sustained intent. The definition's distinction between an \"act\" of aggression and a \"war\" of aggression make it clear that not every act of aggression would constitute a crime against peace; only war of aggression does. States would nonetheless be held responsible for acts of aggression.\n\nThe wording of the definition has been criticised by many commentators. Its clauses on the use of armed irregulars are notably vague, as it is unclear what level of \"involvement\" would entail state responsibility. It is also highly state-centric, in that it deems states to be the only actors liable for acts of aggression. Domestic or transnational insurgent groups, such as those that took part in the Sierra Leone Civil War and the Yugoslav Wars, were key players in their respective conflicts despite being non-state parties; they would not have come within the scope of the definition.\n\nThe Definition of Aggression also does not cover acts by international organisations. The two key military alliances at the time of the definition's adoption, NATO and the Warsaw Pact, were non-state parties and thus were outside the scope of the definition. Moreover, the definition does not deal with the responsibilities of individuals for acts of aggression. It is widely perceived as an insufficient basis on which to ground individual criminal prosecutions.\n\nWhile this Definition of Aggression has often been cited by opponents of conflicts such as the 1999 Kosovo War and the 2003 Iraq War, it has no binding force in international law. The doctrine of \"Nulla poena sine lege\" means that, in the absence of binding international law on the subject of aggression, no penalty exists for committing acts in contravention of the definition. It is only recently that heads of state have been indicted over acts committed in wartime, in the cases of Slobodan Milošević of Serbia and Charles Taylor of Liberia. However, both were charged with war crimes, i.e. violations of the laws of war, rather than with the broader offence of \"a crime against international peace\" as envisaged by the Definition of Aggression.\n\nThe definition is not binding on the Security Council. The United Nations Charter empowers the General Assembly to make recommendations to the United Nations Security Council but the Assembly may not dictate to the Council. The resolution accompanying the definition states that it is intended to provide guidance to the Security Council to aid it \"in determining, in accordance with the Charter, the existence of an act of aggression\". The Security Council may apply or disregard this guidance as it sees fit. Legal commentators argue that the Definition of Aggression has had \"no visible impact\" on the deliberations of the Security Council.\n\nThe Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court lists the crime of aggression as one of the most serious crimes of concern to the international community, and provides that the crime falls within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC). However, Article 5.2 of the Rome Statute states that \"The Court shall exercise jurisdiction over the crime of aggression once a provision is adopted in accordance with articles 121 and 123 defining the crime and setting out the conditions under which the Court shall exercise jurisdiction with respect to this crime. Such a provision shall be consistent with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.\" The Assembly of States Parties of the ICC adopted such a definition at the 2010 Kampala Review Conference.\n\n\nList of reference documents (alphabetical by author):\n\n"}
{"id": "505721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505721", "title": "Wolfdog", "text": "Wolfdog\n\nA wolfdog is a canine produced by the mating of a domestic dog (\"Canis lupus familiaris\") with a gray wolf (\"Canis lupus\"), eastern timber wolf (\"Canis lycaon\"), red wolf (\"Canis rufus\"), or ethiopian wolf (\"Canis simensis\") to produce a hybrid.\n\nThere are a range of experts who believe that they can distinguish a wolf, a wolfdog, and dog apart but have been proven to be incorrect when providing their evidence before courts of law.\n\nAdmixture between domestic dogs and other subspecies of gray wolves are the most common wolfdogs since dogs and gray wolves are considered the same species, are genetically very close, and have shared vast portions of their ranges for millennia. Such admixture in the wild have been detected in many populations scattered throughout Europe and North America, usually occurring in areas where wolf populations have declined from human impacts and persecutions. At the same time, wolfdogs are also often bred in captivity for various purposes. Admixture of dogs and two other North American wolf species have also occurred historically in the wild, although it is often difficult for biologists to discriminate the dog genes in the eastern timber and red wolves from the gray wolf genes also present in these wolf species due to their historical overlaps with North American gray wolves as well as with coyotes, both of which have introgressed into the eastern timber and red wolf gene pools. At the same time, because many isolated populations of the three wolf species in North America have also mixed with coyotes in the wild, it has been speculated by some biologists that some of the coywolf hybrids in the northeastern third of the continent may also have both coydogs and wolfdogs in their gene pool. Hybrids between dogs and Ethiopian wolves discovered in the Ethiopian Highlands likely originated from past interactions between free-roaming feral dogs and Ethiopian wolves living in isolated areas.\n\nThe term \"wolfdog\" is preferred by most of the animals' proponents and breeders because the domestic dog was taxonomically recategorized in 1993 as a subspecies of \"Canis lupus\". Recognized wolfdog breeds by FCI are the Czechoslovakian Wolfdog and the Saarloos Wolfdog.\n\nOne of the issues that many researchers and wolfdog communities are faced with is identifying wolfdogs from pure dogs and gray wolf subspecies. The most common method used by various wolfdog communities is phenotyping, a method that involves observing the animal's physical features. This method is often favoured for many in determining the degree of wolf and northern spitz-type dog that is in a wolfdog. However, a lot of criticisms have been made by opponents within some communities who tend to point out that phenotyping cannot always determine the wolf-contents accurately. Another challenge involves determining exactly the domestic breeds and wolf subspecies involved in the admixture due to the fact that dogs are known to come in various breeds while gray wolves in turn come in various subspecies with many different regional ecotypes hence have different physical features depending on the subspecies used in the breeding.\n\nA 1982 study of canine skulls from Wyoming dating back 10,000 years ago identified some that match the morphology of wolfdogs. This study was rebutted as not providing convincing evidence four years later. Fossil evidence in Europe points to their use in hunting mammoths.\n\nIn 2010, archeologists announced that they had found the remains of wolf-dogs that had been kept by the warrior class of the Teotihuacan civilization in Mexico's central valley about two thousand years ago, and that, in light of this finding, certain animals commonly depicted in the art of that culture, which had been thought to be strange dogs or coyotes, are being re-examined.\n\nGenetic research from the Stanford University School of Medicine and the University of California, Los Angeles revealed that wolves with black pelts owe their distinctive coloration to a mutation that entered the wolf population through admixture with the dog.\nAdolph Murie was among the first wolf biologists to speculate that the wide color variation in wolves was due to interbreeding with dogs;\n\nIn 2008, Dr. Gregory S. Barsh, a professor of genetics and pediatrics at the Stanford University School of Medicine used molecular genetic techniques to analyze DNA sequences from 150 wolves, half of them black, in Yellowstone National Park, which covers parts of Wyoming, Montana and Idaho. It was discovered that a gene mutation responsible for the protein beta-defensin 3 is responsible for the black coat color in dogs. After finding that the same mutation was responsible for black wolves in North America and the Italian Apennines, he set out to discover the origin of the mutation. Barsh and his colleagues concluded that the mutation arose in dogs 13,000 to 120,000 years ago, with a preferred date of 47,000 years ago after comparing large sections of wolf, dog, and coyote genomes. At the University of California, Los Angeles, Robert K. Wayne, a canine evolutionary biologist, stated that he believed that dogs were the first to have the mutation. He further stated that even if it originally arose in Eurasian wolves, it was passed on to dogs who, soon after their arrival, brought it to the New World and then passed it to wolves and coyotes. Black wolves with recent dog ancestry tend to retain black pigment longer as they age.\n\nIn the United States, over 100,000 wolf-dogs exist. In first-generation wolfdogs, gray wolves are most often crossed with wolf-like dogs (such as German Shepherds, Siberian Huskies, and Alaskan Malamutes) for an appearance most appealing to owners desiring an exotic pet.\n\nThe Hierran Wolfdog originated in the Island of El Hierro, in the Canary Islands (Spain). Although its origin is still uncertain, in the 15th century dogs similar to wolves already existed in the Canary Islands, called cancha by Aboriginals. At the arrival of the Spanish conquest, the chaplains accompanying the Conquistadors wrote about the presence of \"wild dogs like wolves, but they are small\". It is known that the Hierran Wolfdog has been present in the last two centuries and could have probably come up with the first settlers of the island. This dog has achieved its preference among the shepherds of the island.\n\nThe first record of wolfdog breeding in Great Britain comes from the year 1766 when what is thought was a male wolf mated with a dog identified in the language of the day as a \"Pomeranian\", although it may have differed from the modern Pomeranian breed. The union resulted in a litter of nine pups. Wolfdogs were occasionally purchased by English noblemen, who viewed them as a scientific curiosity. Wolfdogs were popular exhibits in British menageries and zoos.\n\nSix breeds of dog exist that acknowledge a significant amount of recent wolf-dog admixture in their creation. One breed is the \"wolamute\", aka \"malawolf\", a cross between an Alaskan Malamute and a timber wolf. Four breeds were the result of intentional crosses with German Shepherds (one of the original intentionally bred wolf-dog crossbreeds), and have distinguishing characteristics of appearance that may reflect the varying subspecies of wolf that contributed to their foundation stock. Other, more unusual crosses have occurred; recent experiments in Germany were conducted in the crossing of wolves and Poodles. The intent behind creating the breeds has ranged widely from simply the desire for a recognizable companion high-content wolfdog to professional military working dogs. Typical examples include:\n\nIn 1932, Dutch breeder Leendert Saarloos crossed a male German Shepherd dog with a female European wolf. He then bred the female offspring back with the male German Shepherd, creating the Saarloos wolfdog. The breed was created to be a hardy, self reliant companion and housedog. The Dutch Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1975. To honor its creator they changed the name to \"Saarloos Wolfdog\". In 1981 the breed was recognized by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI). Some Saarloos Wolfdogs have been trained as guide dogs for the blind and as rescue dogs.\n\nIn the 1950s, the Czechoslovakian Wolfdog was also created to work on border patrol in the countries now known as Slovakia and the Czech Republic. It is recognized by the Foundation Stock Service of the American Kennel Club, the United Kennel Club, and the Fédération Cynologique Internationale, and today is used in agility, obedience, search and rescue, police work, therapy work, and herding in Europe and the United States.\n\nAmong the dogs used in the development of the German Shepherd, at least four were either wolfdogs or partly descended from wolfdogs.\nIn 1899, Max von Stephanitz, an ex-cavalry captain and former student of the Berlin Veterinary College, was attending a dog show when he was shown a dog named Hektor Linksrhein, who was allegedly one-quarter wolf. Renamed Horand von Grafrath, the dog and his progeny were used to create the German Shepherd. Horand became the centre-point of the breeding programs and was bred with dogs belonging to other society members that displayed desirable traits. Although fathering many pups, Horand's most successful was Hektor von Schwaben. Hektor was line bred with another of Horand's offspring and produced Beowulf, who later fathered a total of eighty-four pups, mostly through being line bred with Hektor's other offspring. In the original German Shepherd studbook, Zuchtbuch für Deutsche Schäferhunde (SZ), within the two pages of entries from SZ No. 41 to SZ No. 76, there are four wolf crosses. This is the first documented use of pure wolf genes to create a domestic dog breed, the German Shepherd, which is historically thought to be the first documented intentionally-bred wolfdog.\n\nThe Lupo Italiano is claimed to have been created in 1966 by crossing a German Shepherd with a wild wolf from northern Lazio. Its maternal genetics and gestation was from the wild wolf. Although the breed is claimed to be a hybrid of the German shepherd with an Italian wolf, a genetic study conducted in 2018 could find no connection between this dog and the Italian wolf.\n\nCurrently, the breed is protected by presidential decree stipulating that this 'State' dog can not be commercialized nor bred outside the officially recognized agency, the Etli, Ente Tutela del Lupo Italiano (Agency for the protection of the Lupo Italiano).\n\nThe Kunming wolfdog, also commonly known as the Kunming dog is an established breed of wolfdog originated in China. Unlike most other wolfdog crosses, Kunming dogs are suitable as guard dogs and working dogs due to their German Shepherd ancestry. They have been trained as military assistant dogs to perform a variety of tasks such as detecting mines. Some are also trained to be fire dogs and rescue dogs. Today they are commonly kept as family companions by many pet owners in China.\n\nA 2014 study found that 20% of wolves and 37% of dogs shared the same mitochondrial haplotypes in Georgia. More than 13% of the studied wolves had detectable dog ancestry and more than 10% of the dogs had detectable wolf ancestry. The results of the study suggest that admixture between wolves and dogs is a common event in the areas where large livestock guardian dogs are held in a traditional way, and that gene flow between dogs and gray wolves was an important force influencing gene pool of dogs for millennia since early domestication events.\n\nCases of accidental breeding of wolfdogs are known (though this is very rare), where a domestic dog female in oestrus strays and is mated by a male wild wolf.\n\nAdmixture in the wild usually occurs near human habitations where wolf density is low and dogs are common. However, there were several reported cases of wolfdogs in areas with normal wolf densities in the former Soviet Union. Wild wolfdogs were occasionally hunted by European aristocracy, and were termed \"lycisca\" to distinguish them from common wolves. Noted historic cases (such as the Beast of Gévaudan) of large wolves that were abnormally aggressive toward humans, may be attributable to wolf-dog mating.\nIn Europe, unintentional mating of dogs and wild wolves have been confirmed in some populations through genetic testing. As the survival of some Continental European wolf packs is severely threatened, scientists fear that the creation of wolfdog populations in the wild is a threat to the continued existence of European wolf populations. However, extensive admixture between wolf and dog is not supported by morphological evidence, and analyses of mtDNA sequences have revealed that such mating are rare. In 1997, during the Mexican Wolf Arizona Reintroduction, controversy arose when a captive pack at Carlsbad designated for release was found to be largely composed of wolfdogs by Roy McBride, who had captured many wolves for the recovery programme in the 1970s. Though staff initially argued that the animals' odd appearance was due to captivity and diet, it was later decided to euthanise them.\n\nIn 2018, a study compared the sequences of 61,000 Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (mutations) taken from across the genome of grey wolves. The study indicated that there exists individual wolves of dogwolf ancestry in most of the wolf populations of Eurasia but less so in North America. The admixture has been occurring across different time scales and was not a recent event. Low-level admixture did not reduce the wolf distinctiveness.\n\nThe wolfdog has been the center of controversy for much of its history, and most breed-specific legislation is either the result of the animal's perceived danger or its categorization as protected native wildlife. The Humane Society of the United States, the RSPCA, Ottawa Humane Society, the Dogs Trust and the Wolf Specialist Group of the IUCN Species Survival Commission consider wolfdogs to be wild animals and therefore unsuitable as pets, and support an international ban on the private possession, breeding, and sale of wolfdogs.\n\nAccording to the National Wolfdog Alliance, 40 U.S. states effectively forbid the ownership, breeding, and importation of wolfdogs, while others impose some form of regulation upon ownership. In Canada, the provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Newfoundland, and Prince Edward Island prohibit wolfdogs as pets. Most European nations have either outlawed the animal entirely or put restrictions on ownership. Wolfdogs were among the breeds banned from the U.S. Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton and elsewhere after a fatal dog attack by a Pitbull on a child.\n\nThe physical characteristics of an animal created by breeding a wolf to a dog are not predictable, similar to that of mixed-breed dogs. Genetic research shows that wolf and dog populations initially diverged approximately 14,000 years ago and have interbred only occasionally since, accounting for the dissimilarity between dogs and wolves in behavior and appearance. In many cases the resulting adult wolfdog may be larger than either of its parents due to the genetic phenomenon of heterosis (commonly known as \"hybrid vigor\"). Breeding experiments in Germany with Poodles and wolves, and later on with the resulting wolfdogs showed unrestricted fertility, mating via free choice and no significant problems of communication (even after a few generations). The offspring of poodles with either coyotes and jackals however all showed a decrease in fertility, significant communication problems, and an increase of genetic diseases after three generations of interbreeding between the hybrids. The researchers therefore concluded that domestic dogs and wolves are the same species.\n\nWolfdogs display a wide variety of appearances, ranging from a resemblance to dogs without wolf blood to animals that are often mistaken for full-blooded wolves. A lengthy study by DEFRA and the RSPCA found several examples of misrepresentation by breeders and indeterminate levels of actual wolf pedigree in many animals sold as wolfdogs. The report noted that uneducated citizens misidentify dogs with wolf-like appearance as wolfdogs. Wolfdogs tend to have somewhat smaller heads than pure wolves, with larger, pointier ears that lack the dense fur commonly seen in those of wolves. Fur markings also tend to be very distinctive and not well blended. Black coloured wolfdogs tend to retain black pigment longer as they age, compared to black wolves. In some cases, the presence of dewclaws on the hind feet is considered a useful, but not absolute indicator of dog gene contamination in wild wolves. Dewclaws are the vestigial first toes, which are common on the hind legs of domestic dogs but thought absent from pure wolves, which only have four hind toes.\n\nObservations on wild wolfdogs in the former Soviet Union indicate that in a wild state these may form larger packs than pure wolves, and have greater endurance when chasing prey. High wolf-content wolfdogs typically have longer canine teeth than dogs of comparable size, with some officers in the South African Defence Force commenting that the animals are capable of biting through the toughest padding \"like a knife through butter\". Their sense of smell apparently rivals that of most established scenthounds.\n\nTests undertaken in the Perm Institute of Interior Forces in Russia demonstrated that high wolf-content wolfdogs took 15–20 seconds to track down a target in training sessions, whereas ordinary police dogs took three to four minutes. The scientific evidence to support the claims by wolfdog researchers is minimal, and more research has been called for.\n\nWolfdogs are generally said to be naturally healthy animals, and are affected by fewer inherited diseases than most breeds of dog. Wolfdogs are usually healthier than either parent due to heterosis. Some of the established breeds of wolfdog that exist today were bred specifically to improve the health and vigor of working dogs.\n\nThere is some controversy over the effectiveness of the standard dog/cat rabies vaccine on a wolfdog. The USDA has not to date approved any rabies vaccine for use in wolfdogs, though they do recommend an off-label use of the vaccine. Wolfdog owners and breeders purport that the lack of official approval is a political move to prevent condoning wolfdog ownership.\n\nWolfdogs are a mixture of genetic traits, which results in less predictable behavior patterns compared to either the wolf or dog. The adult behavior of wolfdog pups also cannot be predicted with comparable certainty to dog pups, even in third-generation pups produced by wolfdog mating with dogs or from the behavior of the parent animals. Thus, though the behavior of a single individual wolfdog may be predictable, the behavior of the type as a whole is not. The majority of high wolf-content wolfdogs are very curious and are generally no more destructive than any other curious or active dogs.\n\nDue to the variability inherent to their admixture, whether a wolf–dog cross should be considered more dangerous than a dog depends on behavior specific to the individual alone rather than to wolfdogs as a group.\n\nThe view that aggressive characteristics are inherently a part of wolfdog temperament has been contested in recent years by wolfdog breeders and other advocates of wolfdogs as pets.\n\n\n\n"}
