{"id": "24488049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488049", "title": "1929 Barcelona International Exposition", "text": "1929 Barcelona International Exposition\n\nThe 1929 Barcelona International Exposition (also 1929 Barcelona Universal Exposition, or Expo 1929, in Catalan: \"Exposició Internacional de Barcelona de 1929\") was the second World Fair to be held in Barcelona, the first one being in 1888. It took place from 20 May 1929 to 15 January 1930 in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was held on Montjuïc, the hill overlooking the harbor, southwest of the city center, and covered an area of 118 hectares (291.58 acres) at an estimated cost of 130 million pesetas ($25,083,921 in United States dollars). Twenty European nations participated in the fair, including Germany, Britain, Belgium, Denmark, France, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Romania and Switzerland. In addition, private organizations from the United States and Japan participated. Latin American countries as well as the United States were represented in the \"Ibero-Americana section\" in Sevilla.\n\nThe previous 1888 Barcelona Universal Exposition had led to a great advance in the city's economic, architectural and technological growth and development, including the reconstruction of the Parc de la Ciutadella, the city's main public park. A new exposition was proposed to highlight the city's further technological progress and increase awareness abroad of modern Catalan industry. This new exhibition required the urban planning of Montjuïc and its adjacent areas and the renovation of public spaces, principally Plaça d'Espanya.\n\nThe exposition called for a great deal of urban development within the city, and became a testing-ground for the new architectural styles developed in the early 20th century. At a local level, this meant the consolidation of \"Noucentisme\", a classical style that replaced the \"Modernisme\" (in the same vein as Glasgow Style / Art Nouveau / Jugendstil, etc.) predominating in Catalonia at the turn of the 20th century. Furthermore, it marked the arrival in Spain of international \"avant-garde\" tendencies, especially rationalism, as seen in the design of the Barcelona Pavilion, created by German Bauhaus architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. The Exposition also allowed for the erection of several emblematic buildings and structures, including the Palau Nacional de Catalunya, the Font màgica de Montjuïc, the Teatre Grec, Poble Espanyol, and the Estadi Olímpic Lluís Companys.\n\nThe idea of a new exhibition began to take shape in 1905, promoted by the architect Josep Puig i Cadafalch, as a way of bringing out the new Plan of links designed by Léon Jaussely. It was initially proposed that the Exposition should be constructed in the area of the Besòs River, but instead, in 1913, planners selected Montjuïc as the site. While originally planned for 1917, the exposition was delayed due to World War I.\n\nPuig i Cadafalch's project was supported by the Fomento del Trabajo Nacional, especially Francesc d'Assis, one of its leaders, who took charge of negotiations with the various agencies involved in the project. Thus, in 1913 the organization created a joint committee for organizing the event, consisting of representatives of the National Labor Development and the City Council, be appointed commissioners of the organization Josep Puig i Cadafalch, Francesc Cambo and Joan Pitch i Pon.\n\nIn 1915, the committee presented a first draft by Puig i Cadafalch, which was divided into three specific projects, each commissioned to a team of architects. Puig i Cadafalch and Guillem Busquets reserved the area at the base of the mountain, Lluis Domenech i Montaner and Manuel Vega i March planned the area atop the mountain—designated the International Section, and Enric Sagnier and August Font i Carreras Miramar developed a Maritime Section.\nThe principal difficulty of the project was the amount of land required. The exposition would need at least 110 hectares, and the Barcelona City Council had only 26 by 1914. Thus, using an 1879 law, they resorted to land-expropriation. In 1917, development work began at Montjuïc, with assistant engineer Marià Rubio i Bellver. Landscaping was done by Jean-Claude Nicolas Forestier, who was assisted by Maria Rubio i Tudurí Nicolau. Their design was distinctly Mediterranean, with classical influences, combining the gardens with the construction of pergolas and terraces. Likewise, a funicular was built to allow access to the top of the mountain, as well as an aerial tram, which connected the mountain with the Port of Barcelona. However, the aerial tram did not open until 1931, after the fair was closed.\n\nConstruction, while somewhat delayed, was completed in 1923, but the introduction that year of the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera delayed the actual exposition, which finally occurred in 1929, coinciding with the Ibero-American Exhibition in Seville. Also, the delay made obsolete the goal of promoting electrical industry, so that in 1925 the event was renamed the International Exhibition in Barcelona. The change of objective led to the reorganization of the exhibition, so that it was devoted to three aspects: industry, the sports, and art. In this new period, the organization fell into the hands of Pere Domènech i Roura, the Marquis de Foronda, and Director of Works.\n\nFurther development of the event allowed for a great stylistic diversity in the buildings of various architects, some loyal to the \"Noucentisme\" prevailing at the time, others reflecting recurring historicist and eclectic trends that persisted since the late 19th century, with particular influence from the Spanish Baroque, in particular the architecture of Santiago de Compostela, in Galicia. Despite this diversity, most buildings—at least the official ones—had a common theme of monumentality and grandiosity. In contrast, buildings in the International Section, home to pavilions representing other countries and institutions, had a more contemporary aspect, parallel to the current state of the art of the period. This particularly included Art Deco and rationalism.\n\nThe exposition was opened by King Alfonso XIII on 19 May 1929. Led by Mayor Darius Rumeu y Freixa, baron de Viver, and Manuel de Álvarez-Cuevas y Olivella, President of the Organizing Committee. It was attended by some 200,000 people in the general public and by many Catalan political, economic, and cultural figures, including the Prime Minister (and dictator) Miguel Primo de Rivera.\n\nIn terms of cost, the exhibition lost money, with a deficit of 180 million pesetas. Its success was relative; during the event the stock market crashed in New York, on 29 October 1929, which reduced the number of participants in the event. At the social level, it was great success as it allowed for a large influx of people and achievements for the city of Barcelona, especially in the fields of architecture and urbanism.\n\nThe Exposition Center, \"el recinte de l'Exposició\", was built to designs by Puig i Cadafalch with two different types of buildings: palaces, the sections devoted to the official competition; and flags, representing countries, institutions and companies. The exposition's main axis began at the \"Plaça d'Espanya\", where four large hotels were built, through the Avenue of Americas (now the \"Avinguda de la Reina Maria Cristina\"), which housed the grand buildings of the Exposition, to the foot of the mountain, the site of the \"Magic Fountain\", the Palaces Alfonso XIII and Victoria Eugenia, and a monumental staircase.\n\nThe Avenue of the Americas was decorated with numerous fountains, as well as glass columns—illuminated by electricity—designed by Charles Buïgas, which caused a great sensation. On both sides of the avenue were the main buildings of the Exposition: Palace of Costumes; the Palace of Communications and Transport; and the Palace of Metallurgy, Electricity and Locomotion. Today, these buildings are used as exposition spaces in the Barcelona Trade Fair. Along the avenue was Mechanics Square (now the \"Plaça de l'Univers\"), at the center of which stood the \"Tower of Light\", and the sculpture \"El Treball\", by Josep Llimona.\n\nThe Plaça d'Espanya was included in Ildefons Cerdà's plan for the expansion of Barcelona, the Eixample. It was to be a major point of communication in the route between Barcelona and the towns of Baix Llobregat. After a first draft by the urbanized square Josep Amargós in 1915, the square was finally built to plans by Josep Puig i Cadafalch and Guillem Busquets, and then finished by Antoni Darder i Marsa. It was fully complete by 1926. They designed the square as a monumental rotary, to be surrounded by a Baroque colonnade. The design was influenced by Bernini's St. Peter's Square in Rome. Dividing the square from the Avenue of the Americas Ramon Reventós designed two bell-towers, known as the Venetian Towers, which were heavily influenced by St. Mark's Campanile in Venice.\n\nAt the center of the square another monumental fountain was built, designed by Josep Maria Jujol. Its ornate decoration is an allegory of Spain, surrounded by water. Three niches with sculptures symbolize the three principal rivers of the Iberian Peninsula, the Ebro, Guadalquivir, and Tagus. Around the central sculpture, three decorated columns symbolize Religion (a cross with Ramon Llull, Saint Teresa of Jesus, and Saint Ignatius of Loyola), Heroism (a sword with Pelagius of Asturias, James I and Isabella), and Arts ( a book with Ausias March and Miguel de Cervantes).\n\nThe famous Magic Fountain of Montjuïc, designed by Carles Buïgas, was constructed in 1929 on Avinguda Maria Cristina at the foot of Montjuic, and amazed the public with its light and water displays. Today, it is still an emblem of the Catalan capital, and musical lightshows are often performed there during the annual festival of La Mercè, as well as during every weekend. It enchants the public with a backdrop of the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya. Originally, four columns were built in this location by Puig i Cadafalch to represent the Catalan flag, but these were removed by Spanish dictator Primo de Rivera's orders.\n\n\nAs the Ibero-American Exposition of 1929 was taking place simultaneously in Seville, no Spanish American countries participated. From the remaining countries, the official participants were Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland and the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs (later Yugoslavia); most of these countries had their own pavilions, except for Austria, Czechoslovakia, Finland and Switzerland. Apart from these countries, Japan, the Netherlands, Portugal, the United Kingdom and the United States participated in an unofficial capacity. Each country had a week dedicated to it throughout the course of the event, with a highlight of the German week being the flight of the Graf Zeppelin airship over Barcelona, on 16 May 1929.\n\n\n\nThe landscaping of Montjuic mountain left works like the Teatre Grec, an open-air theatre inspired by ancient Greek theatres (particularly the Epidaurus), designed by Ramon Reventós. Located in the site of an old quarry, it has a 460 m semicircular area, with a diameter of 70 m and a 2,000 person capacity. It is currently the site of a summer festival in Barcelona, the Festival Grec.\n\nThe theatre is situated within Laribal Gardens, designed by Forestier and Rubió, where the famous \"Cat Fountain\" is located at the entrance to a building by Puig i Cadafalch which has been convertred into a restaurant (1925). There are many sculptures in the gardens, with works by Josep Viladomat, Enric Casanovas, Josep Clarà, Pablo Gargallo, Antoni Alsina, Joan Rebull, Josep Dunyach, etc. In the Miramar zone the Montjuic swimming pool was built, as well as a restaurant which in 1959 became the first RTVE studio in Barcelona.\n\nAt the top of the hill, next to the International Section, the Olympic Stadium was built by Pere Domènech i Roura within the sports section. It had a surface area of 66,075 m and a 62,000 person capacity, making it the second biggest stadium in Europe at the time, after Wembley. It contained fields for the practice of football and other sports, as well as athletics tracks and installations for various other sports such as boxing, gymnastics and fencing, as well as tennis courts and a swimming pool. The main façade was monumental in atmosphere, with a dome and a tall tower topped with a shrine. It was decorated with sculptures, most notably the \"Horse riders making the Olympic salute\", two bronze equestrian sculptures by Pablo Gargallo. The building was remodelled by the architects Vittorio Gregotti, Frederic de Correa, Alfons Milà, Joan Margarit and Carles Buxadé for the 1992 Summer Olympics.\n\nOne work which had great public success was the Poble Espanyol (\"Spanish Town\"), a small showground containing reproductions of different urban and architectural environments from the entire national territory, in an atmosphere which ranges from the folkloric to the strictly archaeological. It was designed by the architects Ramon Reventós and Francesc Folguera, with the artistic advice of Miquel Utrillo and Xavier Nogués. The exhibition is divided into six regional areas: Castile and Extremadura, Basque Country and Navarre, Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands, Andalusia, Aragon and Galicia, around a Grand Plaza and surrounded by walls (a replica of the walls of Ávila). With a surface area of 20,000 m, it contains 600 buildings, of which 200 can be visited. Among the monuments reproduced some of the most notable are the Mudéjar belltower of Utebo (Zaragoza), the palaces of the marquis of Peñaflor (Seville) and of Ovando Solís (Cáceres), the cloister of Sant Benet de Bages and the Roman belltower of Taradell.\n\nJust as in 1888, the 1929 Exhibition had a great impact on the city of Barcelona at an urban level, not only in Montjuic district, since improvement and refurbishment works were carried out throughout the city: Tetuán, Urquinaona and Letamendi squares were landscaped; the Marina bridge was built; the Plaça de Catalunya was urbanised; and the Avinguda Diagonal was extended to the west and the Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes to the southwest. Various public works were also carried out: street paving and sewer systems were improved, public bathrooms were installed and gas lighting was replaced with electricity. The tradition of ongoing fairs, the \"Fira de Barcelona\", was established.\n\nAt the same time, several buildings were remodelled, such as the City Hall, where Josep Maria Sert painted the \"Salón de Crónicas\", and the Generalitat, where the flamboyant bridge over Bisbe street was built. The post office and the Estació de França (France Station) were completed after having spent several years under construction. The Palau Reial de Pedralbes was also built as a residence for the royal family, designed by Eusebi Bona and Francesc Nebot. During this period the first skyscraper in Barcelona was also constructed: the Telefónica building on the corner of Fontanella and Portal del Ángel, designed by Francesc Nebot.\n\nFinally, they improved the city's communications, with construction during the 1920s of the Barcelona El Prat Airport, the removal of level crossings within the city, the improvement of links with the city's peripheral neighbourhoods, the Sarrià train being moved underground (Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya), the electrification of public trams and the extension of metro line 3 to Sants, connecting the Plaza de España with the Exhibition district. The construction of all these public works lead to a great demand for workers, causing a large increase in immigration to the city from all parts of Spain. At the same time, the increase in population lead to the construction of various workers' districts with \"cheap housing\", such as the Aunós Group in Montjuic and the Milans del Bosch and Baró de Viver Groups in Besós.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51732730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51732730", "title": "2015 Minsk Victory Day Parade", "text": "2015 Minsk Victory Day Parade\n\nThe 2015 Minsk Victory Day Parade was a parade that took place in Minsk, Belarus to celebrate the 70th anniversary of World War II. The parade was in the same style of other Russia Victory Day Parades. Delivering the address was President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko. Inspecting the parade was Minister of Defence Lieutenant General Andrei Ravkov, and commanding the parade was the Deputy Minister of Defense, Major General Mikhail Kuzikov. There were 5,000 troops on parade(Including U.S and Russian troops). 40 members of the U.S. Air Force Band in Europe were present at the parade.Russia was represented by the 234th airborne regiment, T-90 tanks and Tu-22 supersonic strategic bombers, among other units. Commanding the Central Band of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus was Colonel Serguei Kostiuchenko\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44906454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44906454", "title": "Agent Orange Act of 1991", "text": "Agent Orange Act of 1991\n\nAgent Orange Act of 1991 establishes provisions for the National Academy of Sciences to analyze and summarize scientific evidence regarding presumptive military service exposure to defoliants, dioxins and herbicides, better known as Agent Orange, during the Vietnam War era. The United States Statute endorses an observation of human medical conditions directly related to non-Hodgkin lymphoma, soft-tissue sarcoma, chloracne, and consistent acneform diseases for military personnel who served in the overseas Vietnamese region. The Act of Congress ratifies a medical research compilation of voluntarily contributed blood and tissue samples provided by Vietnam-era veterans serving in Southeast Asia between 1961 and 1975.\n\nThe H.R. 556 legislation was passed by the 102nd United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 41st President of the United States George H.W. Bush on February 6, 1991.\n\nOn December 6, 1979, the 96th United States Congress passed the \"Veterans Health Programs Extension and Improvement Act of 1979\" which was enacted into law by United States President Jimmy Carter on December 20, 1979. House Bill 3892 endorsed the United States Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct an epidemiological study concerning human exposure and the adverse health effects of dioxins and phenoxy herbicides. The persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic substances protocol was subject to approval by the Office of Technology Assessment as stated in the provisions of the H.R. 3892 legislation.\n\nThe 96th United States Senate passed bill S. 2096 sanctioning the Agent Orange study to be conducted by the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. On January 2, 1980, President Jimmy Carter vetoed the Senate bill due to the repetitive purpose of the Section 307a1 provisions as stated in House bill 3892.\n\nU.S. Congressional amendments to Title 38 regarding veterans' military benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48246508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48246508", "title": "Aleppo offensive (October–December 2015)", "text": "Aleppo offensive (October–December 2015)\n\nThe Aleppo offensive (October–December 2015) was an operation that started on 16 October when the Syrian Army launched a large-scale strategic offensive south of Aleppo. The main objective of the operation was to secure the Azzan Mountains, while also creating a larger buffer-zone around the Syrian Government’s only highway leading to the provincial capital. The objective was also reportedly to set conditions for an upcoming offensive to isolate rebel forces in Aleppo City and to relieve the long-standing siege of a pro-government enclave in Aleppo Province.\n\nGen. Qasem Soleimani was reported to have personally led the drive deep into the southern Aleppo countryside where many towns and villages were taken by government forces. Gen. Soleimani was in command of the Syrian Arab Army's 4th Mechanized Division, Hezbollah, Harakat Al-Nujaba (Iraqi), Kataebat Hezbollah (Iraqi), Liwaa Abu Fadl Al-Abbas (Iraqi), and Firqa Fatayyemoun (Afghan/Iranian volunteers). The Syrian government's progress deep into the southern Aleppo countryside has been attributed in large part to the Iranian leadership during the offensive.\n\nThe origins of the planning of the offensive in Aleppo could be traced back to Gen. Qasem Soleimani's visit to Moscow in July 2015. Gen. Soleimani was reportedly sent to Syria by the supreme leader of Iran himself, Ali Khamenei, in order to discuss military matters with his Russian counterparts and coordinate a joint escalation of forces in Syria.\n\nOne month before the offensive south of Aleppo, the military launched another operation east of the city in an attempt to break the two-year siege of the Kuweyres military air base.\n\nMajor General Qasem Soleimani reportedly traveled from Latakia Governorate's northeastern countryside to the Al-Safeera District of southern Aleppo in order to personally oversee the first phase of the large-scale offensive in the Azzan Mountains. Soleimani did not travel alone to Aleppo – he was escorted by a large convoy of armored vehicles that were largely made up of Iraqi Shi’i militiamen; these aforementioned fighters were tasked with carrying out the planned operations around the Aleppo Governorate's countryside. Major General Suleimani traveled to Syria on the night of 12 October, to meet with the Iranian and Russian military advisors overseeing the large-scale operations around the Aleppo Governorate's rural terrain. He was joined by six other senior military officers from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard.\n\nAt 10 A.M. (Damascus Time) on the morning of 16 October, the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) – in coordination with Hezbollah, the National Defense Forces (NDF), and Al-Ba'ath Battalions – launched their large-scale southern Aleppo offensive after almost one year of inactivity along this rural area in the Azzan Mountains. According to field reports from the provincial capital, the Syrian Armed Forces and Hezbollah captured four sites from the Islamist rebels of Jabhat Al-Shamiyah (Levantine Front), Harakat Ahrar Al-Sham, and the Free Syrian Army (FSA), killing a number of combatants in the process of their advance in the Aleppo Governorate's southern countryside.\n\nOn 17 October, government forces backed by Shi'ite militia captured several villages, along with the Defense Battalion Base and the farms surrounding it. By the next day, the military was in control of five villages, while it was unclear who controlled al-Shgaydalah after a rebel-counterattack to retake it from the Army. The counterattack was carried out by Sham Revolutionary Brigades and Division 13, the latter a CIA-funded secular group, with videos showing a TOW missile attack destroying a bulldozer and later capturing a BMP-1.\n\nOn 19 October, government forces captured three hills. The commander of the Harakat Nour al-Din al-Zenki rebel group was killed in the fighting during the day. Since the beginning of the offensive, the Army lost at least 11 armored vehicles to TOW AT missiles, according to the SOHR. More weapons and ammunition were also supplied to the FSA including mortars and TOWs according to Issa Al-Turkmani, a Sultan Murad brigade spokesman. Saudi Arabia alone reportedly delivered 500 AT missiles, but another rebel spokesman said that the quantity of TOWs was inadequate for the scale of the assault, pointing out that once the missiles were distributed among the groups each ended up with just a couple of tubes, stating that they needed dozens more per group.\n\nOn 20 October, a rebel official stated the \"losses are heavy on both sides and the regime’s advance is very slow\". Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people reportedly fled the southern Aleppo countryside. Between 21 and 22 October, government forces took control of seven more villages. By this time, government forces reportedly lost at least 15 tanks, armored vehicles and bulldozers since the offensive begun.\n\nOn 23 October, ISIL launched an attack on the Khanaser-Ethria highway (the main government supply route between Hama and Aleppo), after detonating two VBIED's, and captured of a road. Subsequently, government forces recaptured some parts of it. The clashes over the next 24 hours left 28 ISIL fighters and 21 soldiers dead. The attack may have been designed to coincide with a rebel offensive in the Aleppo Governate in order to increase its chances of success. Elsewhere, 24 rebels, including the military leader of the Thwar al-Sham battalions and a commander of the Army of Mujahedeen, were killed in the southern Aleppo countryside, while a rebel spokesman claimed that SAA losses of vehicles had reached 21. At the end of the day, the rebels recaptured al-Hamra village, while government forces reportedly recaptured most of the Khanaser-Ethria highway.\n\nOn 24 October, Army sources reported that it had recaptured the western outskirts of Ithriyah, however the main supply route to Aleppo remained cut off. That day, a second leader in the Nur al-Din Zanki Movement was killed, while a rebel and NDF commander were wounded. The number of government fighters killed at the Khanaser-Ethria highway rose to at least 43. At the end of the day, ISIL launched an attack on the eastern suburbs of Aleppo city and captured Tal Reeman and Al-Salihiyah, before government fighters could repel their further attacks with the help of Russian airplanes.\n\nOn 25 October, rebels attacked, captured and eventually lost the strategically important cement plant area on the outskirts of Aleppo's Sheikh Saeed neighborhood after heavy clashes that led to the death of 14 government fighters and 10 rebels. Meanwhile, government forces reportedly recaptured two checkpoints along the Khanaser-Ethria highway, before a sandstorm forcibly halted all military operations in Aleppo. According to the SOHR, ISIL was still in control of parts of the highway, blocking the main supply route to Aleppo.\n\nOn 26 October, ISIL re-attacked the Khanaser-Ethria highway and captured a checkpoint, killing eight government fighters. Meanwhile, rebels recaptured Tell Hamiriyyeh hill and the Khalsa farms in the southern Aleppo countryside. The next day, ISIL also attacked the strategical town of As-Safira in southeastern Aleppo after detonating four VBIED's in the area. ISIL captured \"key\" military positions near the town and managed to enter Tel Aran. ISIL also managed to enter the northern district of As-Safira, but were pushed out with the help of reinforcements. Later that day, government forces regained their positions in the al-Safira area.\n\nOn 28 October, Russian airstrikes bombed a rebel headquarters in the Aleppo countryside and killed at least 7 rebels.\n\nOn 30 October, Syrian government forces recaptured the Tal Ithriya hill near the Khanaser–Ethria highway and repelled ISIL at Sheikh Hilal and Al-Sa’an. According to the same sources, the SAA also conducted an operation near the town of Khan Touman and captured farms located between the towns of Khan Touman and Qarassi in southern Aleppo. Between 31 October and 2 November, the SAA and its allies captured six villages in the southern countryside of Aleppo, as the rebels withdrew to their stronghold at Al-Hadher. A rebel counter-attack was reportedly unsuccessful.\n\nOn 2 November, ISIL captured the village of Ta’anah and its hill from Syrian troops, while the rebels reportedly recaptured \"wide parts\" of Jabal al-Banjira. The next day, government forces recaptured Al-Ta’anah.\nOn 4 November, government troops regained control over the Khanasser–Ithriya Highway after twelve days of clashes with ISIL, killing seven fighters, four through beheading. While retreating towards al-Tabbaqa, a huge ISIS convoy was reportedly struck by Russian aircraft; the number of dead reported in the attack was more than 50.\n\nOn 5 November, rebels recaptured two villages but despite this, the Army captured the town of Kafr Haddad.\n\nOn 8 November, government forces captured three villages positioned directly south of Al-Hadhir, two of which the rebels retook the next day. The SAA re-took one of them on 10 November, as well as a further three.\n\nBy the end of 11 November, the rebels recaptured several areas, but the military continued its advances on 12 November with the capture of five more villages, as well as the key rebel town of Al-Hader.\n\nOn 17 November, government forces captured Khalasah (known as Halash), after they advance from the nearby village Al-Hamraa. On the next day, rebels recaptured the Banes farms.\n\nOn 21 November, rebels launched a counter-offensive at Tal al-Eiss, By 23 November, the rebels recaptured seven villages and two hills. Al-Nusra seized a number of US-made Humvees from Shia militia near Tal Mamou.\n\nOn 28 November, the rebels recaptured al-Maryoudah village. However, by 29 November, the rebel assault on the southern perimeter of the village Al-Aziziyah failed from their positions at village Al-Makalah, and they withdrew to the south in order to evade air assaults from the Russian and Syrian Air Forces.\n\nBetween 3 and 7 December, Syrian government forces recaptured three villages and two hills.\n\nOn 8 December, the rebels recaptured the village of Banes, the same day that government sources announced a third phase of the Southern Aleppo Offensive.\n\nBetween 12 and 13 December, government forces captured up to seven villages.\n\nOn 20 December, the Syrian Army captured the strategic town of Khan Tuman, as well as two nearby villages, several hills and the Khan Touman Ammunition Depot, along the Aleppo-Damascus Highway (M-5 Highway), cutting the primary rebel supply route from the provincial capital of the Idlib province toward the provincial capital of the Aleppo province. The Al-Zarbeh Poultry Farm was also seized. On the next day, government forces advanced further around Khan Tuman, taking control of two villages and two hills.\n\n On 11 January 2016, Syrian government forces launched an assault on the town of Al-Rashiddeen, to the southwest of Aleppo city, while also reportedly capturing two villages in Aleppo's southern countryside. On 28 January, they also seized the village of Blouzah.\n\nOn 3 February, the rebels recaptured the village of Al-Khalidiyah, near Khan Touman, thus reopening their supply line via the Aleppo-Damascus Highway (M-5 Highway). However, it was reported government troops recaptured Al-Khalidiyah three days later.\n\nChristopher Kozak of the Institute for the Study of War speculated that the assault was nothing more than a diversionary tactic intended to move rebel forces away from reopening the access to the Shi'ite towns of Nubl and al-Zahraa and cut the Aleppo–Turkey highway, their primary objective in his opinion. The Syrian Army eventually launched an offensive in Northern Aleppo on 1 February 2016 and broke the three-year siege of the two towns, effectively cutting the Aleppo–Turkey supply route.\n\nHezbollah's main incentive in participating in the offensive is believed to be similar to their agenda elsewhere, securing Shi'ite villages. Their ultimate objective is believed to be reaching the villages of Kafriya and Al-Fu'ah, thus lifting the siege imposed by Al-Nusra Front.\n\nWith reportedly hundreds of square kilometers brought under government control within the span of the first month of the offensive, Al-Masdar concluded that the overall effectiveness of both the senior Iranian revolutionary guards on the ground as well as the close Russian air-support have been noted as part of the main array of factors leading to a revitalized advance by government forces.\n\nThe son of Abdullah Azzam, Huthaifa Azzam, demanded mobilization for Aleppo.\n\n"}
{"id": "47877912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47877912", "title": "Asia Pop Comic Convention", "text": "Asia Pop Comic Convention\n\nAsiaPOP Comic Convention, also known as AsiaPOP Comicon, or simply APCC, is an annual comic book fan convention held in Metro Manila, Philippines. APCC features international brands in the fields of comics, toys, animation, film, television and music within the pop culture phenomena. The convention has since included a larger range of pop culture and entertainment elements across virtually all genres, such as video games, books and sports. APCC is the largest pop culture convention in the Philippines and South East Asia, and one of the largest in Asia.\n\nComic books in the Philippines, locally known as \"komiks\" have been widespread and popular throughout the country. The first indigenous cartoons may be traced to José Rizal's illustration of the fable, \"The Tortoise and the Monkey\" (1885), but it was in the 1920s, \"Liwayway\" magazine began running comic strips under the direction of Romualdo Ramos and Tony Velasquez, such as the still-running \"Mga Kabalbalan ni Kenkoy\" (The Misadventures of Kenkoy). Valasquez is considered the father of Filipino comics. With various local talents gaining recognition abroad, comic books remain popular and widespread as Filipinos enjoy a wide range of selection of comic books from the local industry to mainstream western comics and Japanese manga.\n\nAPCC is organized by Universal Events & Entertainment, a subsidiary of the Al Ahli Holding Group. The inaugural Asia Pop Comic Convention was held from September 17 to 20 at the World Trade Center Metro Manila in Pasay with various big names cosplayers, artists and other entertainers both local and international were featured. Universal Events & Entertainment introduced APCC in the United Arab Emirates (known as Pop Con Dubai) and will introduce one in South Korea both acting as sister conventions to the Manila convention.\n\nLike most comic-book conventions,APCC features a large floor-space for exhibitors. These include media companies such as movie studios and TV networks, as well as comic-book dealers and collectibles merchants. Also included are autograph areas like the Walk of Fame where invited guest can sign autographs and sell or do free sketches.There are areas for sales of merchandises from clothing, toys, gadgets and other souvenirs. Creative Circle (used to be known as Artists' Alley) is for budding or independent artist and talents to sell their works to the public and also serve as a platform to showcase their talents to potential companies. APCC also offers panels, seminars and workshops with comic book professionals. Meet and greet panels are also available for different celebrity guests.\n\nSince its inauguration, Cosplay Authority Global Challenge, or CAGE conducts cosplay competitions. There are also musical performances conducted by various artists. Different stage shows are also conducted ranging from local workshops, conferences, concerts and even wrestling shows. There are previews of upcoming feature films, and portfolio review sessions with top comic book and video game companies. In 2016, Marvel introduced its own panel, Hall M. In the same year, eSports have been introduced to the event. The following year Netflix hosted its own panel which evolved into Hall N. Disney followed suit introducing Hall D in 2018.\n\nThe inaugural Asia Pop Comic Convention was held from September 17 to 20 at the World Trade Center Metro Manila in Pasay with various big names cosplayers, artists and other entertainers both local and international were featured. Paul Bettany, who portrays the Vision in the \"Marvel Cinematic Universe\", showcased a \"\" Panel to promote the next installment in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Nathalie Emmanuel who plays Missandei of \"Game of Thrones\" also made an appearance. Colton Haynes, who plays Roy Harper in the series \"Arrow\", also appeared. Jeremy Shada, the voice actor of Finn the Human in the popular hit Adventure Time was also present with a performance with his band Make Out Monday. The convention also hosted the inaugural Cosplay Authority Global Challenge (CAGE). \n\nAlso present were local comic book artists such as Steven Segovia, Mark Torres, Mico Suayan, and Carlo Pagulayan whose work span several renowned comic book companies, such as Dark Horse, Marvel, and DC. Renowned cosplayers such as Riddle (Riki LeCotey), Alodia Gosiengfiao, and Vampy Bit Me (Linda Le) were part of the festivities. Other attendees were Pop culture industry icons such as YouTube personalities Octopimp and Commander Holly (Holly Conrad), props and costume designer Bill Doran, and several others. Over 29,000 attendees were reported.\n\nThe 2016 convention was held from August 26 through 28 at the SMX Convention Center in Pasay. English actor Nicholas Hoult who is known for portraying a young Beast in the \"X-Men\" and Nux in the critically acclaimed film \"\" appeared as one of the celebrity guests. Actress Millie Bobby Brown, who is known for her roles as \"Eleven\" in \"Stranger Things\" and young Alice in \"Once Upon a Time\", also attended the convention.\n\nActresses Holland Roden and Hayley Atwell initially confirmed their attendance in the convention, but later dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. Both of them were replaced by Australian actress Claire Holt, best known for her role in \"The Vampire Diaries\" and \"The Originals\". English actor Joe Dempsie, known for his roles of Chris Miles on the teen comedy-drama series \"Skins\" and Gendry on \"Game of Thrones\", attended the convention.\n\nMarvel Comics writer C. B. Cebulski hosted \"Hall M\", which showcased never before seen footage for the upcoming \"Luke Cage\" television series and the next installment in the MCU Doctor Strange. The Philippine Wrestling Revolution held full shows. The Philippine eSports Organization (PeSO) hosted eSports competitions as part of APCC. The second edition of CAGE returned.\n\nAPCC Manila 2016 was also attended by various guests personalities and global cosplayers such as: J-Rock singer Hiroshi Kitadani from the anime music supergroup JAM Project, comic book illustrators Mike Zeck, Ken Lashley, Billy Tan, and Jason Palmer, as well as global cosplayers, Ani Mia, Lindze Merritt, Riki LeCotey, and Yugana Senshi Uon. They are joined by artist Simone Legno of tokidoki and representing Filipino artistry were cosplayers Alodia Gosiengfiao and Myrtle Sarrosa; beauty vlogger Say Tioco and artist extraordinaire Whilce Portacio, also known as the creator of Bishop of \"Uncanny X-Men\". Over 40,000 people attended the event.\n\nThe 2017 convention took place on August 25 to 27 at SMX Convention Center, Pasay City. Marvel once again hosted \"Hall M\" which featured never before scenes from upcoming video games, television series and movies such as \"\" and \"Ant-Man and the Wasp\". Netflix brought some of its Stranger Things' casts namely Joe Keery and Noah Schnapp, who play Steve Harrington and Will Byers, and season two newcomers Dacre Montgomery, who plays Billy and Sadie Sink who plays Max.\nRay Fisher who plays Cyborg in the DC Extended Universe and Tyler Hoechlin who is known for his roles as Derek Hale in Teen Wolf and Superman in Supergirl were the major celebrity guests. Japanese idol Serena Kozuki, also known as “Live Monster” was one of the guest entertainers. Voice actor Gaku Space known for his role as Genji of the critically acclaimed Overwatch video game was also present. The Cosplay Authority Global Challenge returned for the a third edition with notable cosplayers namely Alodia Gosiengfiao, Myrtle Sarrosa, Pion Kim, Jinbehindinfinity, Philip Odango, and Haiden Hazard serving as judges.\n\nVarious comic and graphic artists such as Carl Potts, veteran penciler/inker Rodney Ramos, Whilce Portacio and Shoji Kawamori, the renowned creator of the Macross anime franchise also graced the event with their presence. The Philippine Wrestling Revolution conducted house shows for the second time. Toy designers like Tokidoki co-founder Simone Legno; Jason Freeny, whom is known for his anatomical toy sculptures; and Quiccs, an illustrator, toy designer, and graffiti artist known for his love for Japanese robot culture where in attendance. APCC reported over 60,000 attendees.\n\nThe fourth installment of APCC was held on July 27-29, 2018 at SMX Convention Center, Pasay, Manila. Celebrity guests include Finn Jones (known for his role as the titular character in Netflix's Iron Fist), Tye Sheridan (who plays the lead in Ready Player One and Cyclops in ) and Osric Chau (who portrays Kevin Tran on Supernatural) Jessica Henwick was initially announced as one of the guests celebrity but cancelled citing unforeseen circumstances.\n\nMarvel Vice-President of Creative Development Stephen Wacker hosted Hall M which presented clip from an upcoming episode of Cloak and Dagger. Disney Studios introduced Hall D featuring sessions from Disney artist Mark Henn. The hall also featured the internationally renowned furniture designer Kenneth Cobonpue and the unveiling of his works on Star Wars themed furniture collections. The Netflix panel (reintroduced as Hall N) returned which featured special screenings and previews of future releases such as Castlevania and . The showcase also included appearances from Luke Cage (along with Jones) star Mike Colter, showrunner Cheo Hodari Coker, Mustafa Shakir, who plays the villain Bushmaster, and Iron Fist producer Raven Metzner. \n\nConvention regulars, Brian Mur, Stanley Lau, Simone Legno, Alex Sinclaire, Lan Medina, Mike McKone, Phil Noto, and Whilce Portacio made their appearances along with new comers Artists Amanda Visell and Michelle Valigura. Professional cosplayers, Canvas Cosplay (Philip Odango), Leon Chiro, Vera Chimera and Yugana Senshiuon served as judges for the CAGE. ONE FC Heavyweight Champion Brandon Vera also served as a judge. \n\nThe convention was noted for the introduction of the Jollibee Funko Pop.\n\n"}
{"id": "1237052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237052", "title": "Audio Engineering Society", "text": "Audio Engineering Society\n\nEstablished in 1948, the Audio Engineering Society (AES) draws its membership from engineers, scientists, other individuals with an interest or involvement in the professional audio industry. The membership largely comprises engineers developing devices or products for audio, and persons working in audio content production. It also includes acousticians, audiologists, academics, and those in other disciplines related to audio. The AES is the only worldwide professional society devoted exclusively to audio technology.\n\nThe Society develops, reviews and publishes engineering standards for the audio and related media industries, and produces the AES Conventions, which are held twice a year alternating between Europe and the US. The AES and individual regional or national \"sections\" also hold \"AES Conferences\" on different topics during the year.\n\nThe idea of a society dedicated solely to audio engineering had been discussed for some time before the first meeting, but was first proposed in print in a letter by Frank E. Sherry, of Victoria, Texas, in the December 1947 issue of the magazine \"Audio Engineering\". A New York engineer and audio consultant, C.J. LeBel, then published a letter agreeing, and saying that a group of audio professionals had already been discussing such a thing, and that they were interested in holding an organizational meeting. He asked interested persons to contact him for details. The response was enthusiastic and encouraging. Fellow engineer Norman C. Pickering published the date for an organizational meeting, and announced the appointment of LeBel as acting chairman, and himself as acting secretary.\n\nThe organizational meeting was held at the RCA Victor Studios in New York City on February 17, 1948. Acting chairman Mr. LeBel spoke first, emphasizing the professional, non-commercial, independent nature of the proposed organization. Acting Secretary Norman Pickering then discussed the need for a professional organization that could foster an exchange of knowledge in this quickly-growing field. The group agreed to form the Audio Engineering Society, and confirmed the acting executive committee, which consisted of John D. Colvin, C. J. LeBel, C. G. McProud, Norman C. Pickering and Chester O. Rackey.\n\nThe first AES technical membership meeting followed on March 11, with about 3500 attendees. The guest speaker at the first meeting was Harry F. Olson, a prominent engineer and scientist at RCA and author of \"Acoustical Engineering\", who spoke on \"Problems of High-Fidelity Reproduction\".\n\nFrom its New York beginnings, the AES has grown worldwide and as of October 31, 2010 had 14215 members, 4306 of whom are classified as students. Members elect a Board of Governors and officers, who jointly set policy and procedures for the Society. The AES is a tax-exempt, 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation headquartered in New York.\n\nThe AES publishes a peer-reviewed journal, the \"Journal of the Audio Engineering Society\" (JAES).\n\nThe AES produces two conventions each year as well as a number of topic-specific conferences. The fall convention is in North America and the Spring convention is in Europe. The first convention was in 1949.\n\n23 Technical Committees advise the AES Technical Council on emerging trends and areas of interest in the audio engineering community. The Committee meetings, held at Conventions, are open to participation by members and non-members alike, and are the venue for planning workshops, seminars and conferences in specific technical areas.\n\nThe AES has been involved in setting technical standards for audio since 1977. The AES Standards Committee (AESSC), through a consensus system open to anyone materially affected by such standards, develops and publishes a number of standards on the subject of analog and digital audio recording, transmission, and/or reproduction. Notable standards include:\n\n\nAESSC also provides input to IEC for development and revision of international standards in audio engineering.\n\nAES does not charge for participation in the standards process, but does charge non-members for online copies of published standards. Printed copies are available for a charge to both members and non-members.\n\nThe AES Gold Medal is the Society's highest honor, and given in recognition of outstanding achievements, sustained over a period of years, in the field of Audio Engineering. The award was established in 1971; it was formerly known as the John H. Potts Memorial Award.\n\nThe AES British Section, which is the largest outside the US, issues a monthly newsletter and holds regular lectures, usually in London, with occasional visits to studios and other places of interest. Lectures, which are often on topics of topical interest to audio enthusiasts are usually recorded, with past lectures available to all as free MP3 downloads, sometimes with accompanying slides in PDF format.\n\nAlthough there are several German sections of the AES and there is no formal connection to the Verband Deutscher Tonmeister, the goals and activities of both organizations are closely related and there are several instances of double memberships, e.g. in the persons of Benjamin Bernfeld, Gerhard Steinke and Günther Theile.\n\n"}
{"id": "3728020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3728020", "title": "BRIXMIS", "text": "BRIXMIS\n\nThe British Commanders'-in-Chief Mission to the Soviet Forces in Germany (BRIXMIS) was a military liaison mission which operated behind the Iron Curtain in East Germany during the Cold War. \n\nBRIXMIS existed from 1946 – shortly after the end of the Second World War – until the eve of the reunification of Germany in 1990. Created by an agreement to exchange military missions, the stated object of BRIXMIS – and the Soviet equivalent in the British Zone, SOXMIS – was \"to maintain Liaison between the Staff of the two Commanders-in-Chief and their Military Governments in the Zones\".\n\nThis liaison was undertaken by 31 members – 11 officers and no more than 20 others – appointed to each mission. These liaison staff were issued passes allowing freedom of travel and circulation, with the exception of certain restricted areas, within each other's zone. Such \"tours\", as they became known, were conducted in uniform and in clearly identifiable vehicles. Nevertheless, although never openly stated, this liaison role also presented an ideal opportunity for the gathering of military intelligence through reconnaissance and surveillance and the occasional 'borrowing' of military matériel. This opportunity was fully exploited by both sides.\n\nBRIXMIS was ideally placed to \"test the temperature\" of Soviet intentions from its privileged position behind the Iron Curtain. However, and perhaps more importantly, it offered a channel for communication between West and East via its secondary but significant role of liaison – the initial reason for its establishment.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the four Allied zones of control in Germany after the Second World War, it became clear that some mechanism was needed to facilitate liaison between the occupying military governments, particularly between those of the Western Allies and the Soviet Union. The exchange of military liaison missions appeared to offer a convenient solution.\nThe reciprocal agreement establishing the first of these, between the British and Soviet zones – the Robertson-Malinin Agreement – was reached on 16 September 1946 between the respective chiefs of staff. Subsequent agreements in 1947 led to the exchange of similar missions between the Soviet zone and those controlled by French and US forces, although the British–Soviet arrangement was significantly larger than either of the others, with 31 individuals allowed passes in each case.\n\nThe British Mission comprised members of the British Army, Royal Navy and Royal Air Force who conducted uniformed liaison activities in marked cars and in two Chipmunk light aircraft – the latter ostensibly to allow aircrew to maintain crew currency while posted to the Mission. \n\nBRIXMIS maintained a permanent presence in its nominal home, the Mission House in Potsdam, East Germany, but its actual headquarters and operational centre were in West Berlin. These were located in London Block, a part of the Olympic Stadium complex which housed the military government of the British Sector of Berlin. The original Potsdam Mission House at Wildpark was in fact damaged during anti-British disturbances in 1958, and a new one (34 Seestrasse) was provided by the Soviet authorities, together with a sum of money in reparation.\nAlthough symbolically highly significant, the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 simply returned the situation to what it had been before its erection in 1961, and the need for liaison and the gathering of intelligence became no less pressing. The agreements therefore remained in place until 2 October 1990, when all three were suspended on the eve of Germany's reunification.\n\nWhile BRIXMIS formally disbanded on 31 December 1990, a small number of its staff remained to conduct similar operations covertly and without the quasi-diplomatic immunity of the Robertson-Malinin Agreement during the course of the next three years. The rationale for this 'son-of-BRIXMIS' unit is as curious as the paradox of the liaison-spying roles of the previous 45 years. In 1990, the fact remained that the West could not be certain that the Soviet Union would fully withdraw from the now united Germany.\n\nOther than via the occasional formal message, most official liaison consisted of formal events attended by both sides. Such events included, for example, a parade on the Queen's birthday, receptions at the Mission House, and a Remembrance Day religious service at the Stahnsdorf War Graves cemetery, just south of Berlin. There were also regular wreath-laying visits to the British memorials at the former concentration camps of Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen, and Ravensbrück.\n\nInformal contact was maintained through parties – usually in celebration of some one-off event – to which members of SERB, the Soviet External Relations Branch, were also invited. \n\nMembers of the Mission holding a full \"touring\"’ pass could also go on what were known as \"cultural tours\", in which tourers and their families could stay, usually for several nights, in hotels of some of the main cities of East Germany. Such trips offered excellent opportunities for getting to know members of the Soviet and East German armed forces (and civilians) who might not have otherwise been met in the course of normal duties.\n\nThe liaison agreement allowed staff to travel throughout the respective zones of control with only limited restrictions on movement. Some areas remained restricted on a permanent basis, whereas others were subject to temporary restriction, with processes established to notify respective missions when these were imposed.\nWhilst these were to a large extent respected, there were also many unnotified \"Missions prohibited\" signs around most military installations, which were invariably ignored and even at times taken home as souvenirs. Tours found in places where they were not supposed to be were usually pursued and, if caught, arrested and detained for a while at the nearest \"Kommandatura\". The main risk to persistent offenders was that they might be declared \"persona non grata\" and have their passes withdrawn – a complete waste of the expensive specialist training they had undergone before being posted to BRIXMIS.\n\nThis freedom of movement throughout East Germany allowed the collection of intelligence on Warsaw Pact forces, particularly those of the Soviet Union and East Germany, which included force disposition and movement, orders of battle, equipment and professional standards. The configuration of liaison teams was established in the initial agreement and remained in place throughout the life of the programme. These were made up of a tour officer, a tour NCO and a driver, all of whom in later years received similar training. Their ground operations tours were conducted in cars, reconnoitring either on an ad-hoc basis or as directed by Defence Intelligence in London. Such tours could take a number of days with the teams being entirely self-sufficient, cooking their own meals and sleeping in the countryside either in the vehicle, as the driver always had to, or, as the other two normally did, in bivouacs or one-man tents. Once they had left Potsdam, they were entirely out of contact with their headquarters, and therefore left to their own devices to deal with any unforeseen circumstances, whether they be problems or opportunities.\n\nIncidents of open hostility to tourers – such as being physically attacked or shot at, or having the vehicle deliberately rammed – were infrequent, but they did nevertheless happen occasionally. What was very common, however, was the tailing of crews by so-called \"narks\" – members of the East German State Security Service (Stasi). A combination of superior equipment, driving skills and the ever-increasing knowledge of the local terrain possessed by the BRIXMIS crews meant, however, that they could usually be shaken off.\n\nThe British Mission was almost entirely overt, in that all personnel operated in uniform and in marked vehicles, although there were occasions when the officer and tour NCO would leave the driver in the vehicle and explore on foot, while deliberately concealing any obvious evidence of their military identity. The reciprocal Soviet Mission to the British zone operated in a more covert manner, however, in that it also had an agent handling capability. \n\nBRIXMIS was also noted for many technical intelligence coups, including: \n\nThe BRIXMIS contingent used Opel Kapitän cars in the 1950s, followed by Opel Admiral cars and their later replacement, the Opel Senator, converted to four-wheel drive in the UK. However, the operational need for a vehicle with a higher degree of cross-country performance than the mainly on-road Opel Senator led them to acquire a number of extensively modified Range-Rover vehicles. These proved to be fragile and expensive to run and maintain in Germany. With this in mind, they acquired a single Mercedes-Benz G-Class for trials purposes in 1980–81. After extensive evaluation, they adopted the Geländewagen as the general tour vehicle, and in various models, it lasted in service until they ceased operations in 1990. An ex-BRIXMIS G-Wagen is on display at the Military Intelligence Museum at Chicksands, England.\nBRIXMIS also exercised the British legal right under the Potsdam Agreement to use the airspace over both West and East Berlin, as well as the air corridors to and from West Germany to the city. Two de Havilland Chipmunk T10s were based at RAF Gatow and RAF aircrew posted to BRIXMIS had access to them for the conduct of photographic reconnaissance flights within the designated airspace; a radius of 12 nautical miles within the Berlin Control Zone (BCZ) from the Berlin Air Safety Centre (BASC) located in West Berlin.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall, Chipmunk reconnaissance flights soon ceased and the two Chipmunks were flown to RAF Laarbruch, in Western Germany to await disposal action. Chipmunk WB466 was flown back to Berlin and was donated to the Allied Museum in Berlin, where it remains on display today. WG486 is still in RAF service with the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53855850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53855850", "title": "Bhishma Ashtami", "text": "Bhishma Ashtami\n\nBhishma Ashtami (Bhishmashtami) is a Hindu festival dedicated to Bhishma of the great Indian epic \"Mahabharata\". It is believed that Bhishma, also known as 'Ganga Putr Bhism' or 'Bhishma Pitamaha', departed from his soul on this chosen day. This occurred during the propitious 'Uttarayan period'; that is, the daytime of devas. Bhishma Ashtami is observed during the month of Magha in the Hindu calendar. It corresponds to the months of January–February.\n\nBhishma Ashtami is a minor holiday observed in Bengal and parts of southern India in remembrance of Bhishma, a warrior who fought and died in the Kurukshetra War, the battle which fills so many pages of the Mahabharata. Bhishma was the son of Shantanu, who had given his son a boon in that he would be allowed to choose his own day of death. Bhishma had taken an oath not to marry and that he would ever remain faithful to his father's throne.\n\nThe anniversary of Bhishma Pitamah's death is observed during Magha Shukla Ashtami. The day is known as Bhishma Ashtami and indisputably the death anniversary of Bhishma Pitamah. According to the legend associated with the day, Bhishma waited for 58 days before leaving his body. Bhishma Pitamah left his body on the auspicious day of Uttarayana, i.e. on the day when the Lord Surya started moving towards Northward after completing six month period of Dakshiyana.\n\nThis is the day Bhishma decided to leave his body. The day Bhishma left his body known as Bhishma Ashtami (Magha Shukla Ashtami). He has special boon of death as per his will (Ichha Mrityu) from his father. Hence, despite lying on a bed of arrows he continued in that position and then left his body on Sankranti. Hindus believe that the one who dies during Uttarayana goes to heaven.\n\n"}
{"id": "1870179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870179", "title": "Boston Cyberarts Festival", "text": "Boston Cyberarts Festival\n\nThe Boston Cyberarts Festival used to be the largest festival of digital art, performance and film created using new technology in the USA. Around 22,000 people attended the festival in 2007 where they witnessed the work of over 200 artists from all over the world.\n\nThe festival took place once every two years in Boston, Massachusetts, USA usually spanning the last week of April and the first week in May. The festival was first held on 1 – 15 May 1999, and the last festival took place on 22 April – 8 May 2011. The Festivals were organized by Boston Cyberarts Inc, a non-profit arts organization.\n\n, the director of Cyberarts is George Fifield, who was one of the original cofounders of the organization. Boston Cyberarts, Inc. continues to exist as a non-profit arts organization, but has redirected its energies to promoting the arts and technology year-round, rather than biennially. The most visible continuing effort is the Boston Cyberarts Gallery, which used to be the Axiom Center for New and Experimental Media. The gallery was and is located in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston, in the Green Street station building on the MBTA Orange Line rapid transit line.\n\nThe online presence of the past Boston Cyberarts Festivals, including online exhibits, is archived and still accessible free of charge.\n\nThe festival was located in Boston, Massachusetts. The festival usually featured a central headquarters where visitors could get information about the events and also attend the opening night party. Massachusetts had arguably the densest population of digital artists in the US, making Boston the high-technology cultural center of the country. The festival’s events were held in Boston’s art galleries, museums, universities, and public spaces. For those unable to attend the festival physically, there were virtual festival events held on the internet.\n\nAround 22,000 people attended the Festival in 2007 where they witnessed the work of over 200 artists from all over the world. Events and exhibitions took place at 81 Festival events organized by over 60 arts organizations in Boston. The events featured:\n\nBoston Cyberarts Inc also presented its own exhibitions and performances during the Festival. For example, at the Computer Museum they presented the exhibition ‘Mind into Matter’, co-curated by Festival director George Fifield and Francine Koslow Miller. This was the first international survey of digital sculpture. Over 100 events took place organized by 60 cultural and education institutions, including museum and gallery exhibitions and visual arts programming.\n\nThe art work at the festival has been produced using computers; often alongside more traditional mediums such as paint, photography, film, musical instruments or dance and performance.\n\nThe festival celebrates international art and the wealth of artistic talent in its home region of Massachusetts, United States.\n\nIn 2007, the Boston Cyberarts Festival received the following awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17549172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17549172", "title": "Burnishing (metal)", "text": "Burnishing (metal)\n\nBurnishing is the plastic deformation of a surface due to sliding contact with another object. Visually, burnishing smoothens the texture of a rough surface and makes it shinier. Burnishing may occur on any sliding surface if the contact stress locally exceeds the yield strength of the material.\n\nThe action of a hardened ball against a softer, flat plate illustrates the process of burnishing. If the ball is pressed directly into the plate, stresses develop in both objects around the area where they contact. As this normal force increases, both the ball and the plate's surfaces deform.\n\nThe deformation caused by the hardened ball increases with the magnitude of the force pressing against it. If the force on it is small, when the force is released both the ball and plate's surface will return to their original, undeformed shape. In this case, the stresses in the plate are always less than the yield strength of the material, so the deformation is purely elastic. Since it was given that the flat plate is softer than the ball, the plate's surface will always deform more.\n\nIf a larger force is used, there will also be plastic deformation and the plate's surface will be permanently altered. A bowl-shaped indentation will be left behind, surrounded by a ring of raised material that was displaced by the ball. The stresses between the ball and the plate are described in more detail by Hertzian stress theory.\n\nDragging the ball across the plate will have a different effect than pressing. In this case, the force on the ball can be decomposed into two component forces: one normal to the plate's surface, pressing it in, and the other tangential, dragging it along. As the tangential component is increased, the ball will start to slide along the plate. At the same time, the normal force will deform both objects, just as with the static situation. If the normal force is low, the ball will rub against the plate but not permanently alter its surface. The rubbing action will create friction and heat, but it will not leave a mark on the plate. However, as the normal force increases, eventually the stresses in the plate's surface will exceed its yield strength. When this happens the ball will plow through the surface and create a trough behind it. The plowing action of the ball is burnishing. Burnishing also occurs when the ball can rotate, as would happen in the above scenario if another flat plate was brought down from above to induce downwards loading, and at the same time to cause rotation and translation of the ball, or in the case of a ball bearing.\nBurnishing also occurs on surfaces that conform to each other, such as between two flat plates, but it happens on a microscopic scale. Even the smoothest of surfaces will have imperfections if viewed at a high enough magnification. The imperfections that extend above the general form of a surface are called asperities, and they can plow material on another surface just like the ball dragging along the plate. The combined effect of many of these asperities produce the smeared texture that is associated with burnishing.\n\nBurnishing is normally undesirable in mechanical components for a variety of reasons, sometimes simply because its effects are unpredictable. Even light burnishing will significantly alter the surface finish of a part. Initially the finish will be smoother, but with repetitive sliding action, grooves will develop on the surface along the sliding direction. The plastic deformation associated with burnishing will harden the surface and generate compressive residual stresses. Although these properties are usually advantageous, excessive burnishing leads to sub-surface cracks which cause spalling, a phenomenon where the upper layer of a surface flakes off of the bulk material.\n\nBurnishing may also affect the \"performance of a machine\". The plastic deformation associated with burnishing creates greater heat and friction than from rubbing alone. This reduces the efficiency of the machine and limits its speed. Furthermore, plastic deformation alters the form and geometry of the part. This reduces the precision and accuracy of the machine. The combination of higher friction and degraded form often leads to a runaway situation that continually worsens until the component fails.\n\nTo prevent destructive burnishing, sliding must be avoided, and in rolling situations, loads must be beneath the spalling threshold. In the areas of a machine that slide with respect to each other, roller bearings can be inserted so that the components are in rolling contact instead of sliding. If sliding cannot be avoided, then a lubricant should be added between the components. The purpose of the lubricant in this case is to separate the components with a lubricant film so they cannot contact. The lubricant also distributes the load over a larger area, so that the local contact forces are not as high. If there was already a lubricant, its film thickness must be increased; usually this can be accomplished by increasing the viscosity of the lubricant.\n\nBurnishing is not always bad. If it occurs in a controlled manner, it can have desirable effects. Burnishing processes are used in manufacturing to improve the size, shape, surface finish, or surface hardness of a workpiece. It is essentially a forming operation that occurs on a small scale. The benefits of burnishing often include combatting fatigue failure, preventing corrosion and stress corrosion, texturing surfaces to eliminate visual defects, closing porosity, creating surface compressive residual stress.\n\nThere are several forms of burnishing processes, the most common are roller burnishing and ball burnishing (a subset of which is also referred to as ballizing). In both cases, a burnishing tool runs against the workpiece and plastically deforms its surface. In some instances of the latter case (and always in ballizing), it rubs, in the former it generally rotates and rolls. The workpiece may be at ambient temperature, or heated to reduce the forces and wear on the tool. The tool is usually hardened and coated with special materials to increase its life.\n\nBall burnishing, or ballizing, is a replacement for other bore finishing operations such as grinding, honing, or polishing. A ballizing tool consists of one or more over-sized balls that are pushed through a hole. The tool is similar to a broach, but instead of cutting away material, it plows it out of the way.\n\nBall burnishing is also used as a deburring operation. It is especially useful for removing the burr in the middle of a through hole that was drilled from both sides.\n\nBall burnishing tools of another type are sometimes used in CNC milling centres to follow a ball-nosed milling operation: the hardened ball is applied along a zig-zag toolpath in a holder similar to a ball-point pen, except that the 'ink' is pressurised, recycled lubricant. This combines the productivity of a machined finish which is achieved by a 'semi-finishing' cut, with a better finish than obtainable with slow and time-consuming finish cuts. The feedrate for burnishing is that associated with 'rapid traverse' rather than finish machining.\n\nRoller burnishing, or surface rolling, is used on cylindrical, conical, or disk shaped workpieces. The tool resembles a roller bearing, but the rollers are generally very slightly tapered so that their envelope diameter can be accurately adjusted. The rollers typically rotate within a cage, as in a roller bearing. Typical applications for roller burnishing include hydraulic system components, shaft fillets, and sealing surfaces.\nVery close control of size can be exercised.\n\nBurnishing also occurs to some extent in machining processes. In turning, burnishing occurs if the cutting tool is not sharp, if a large negative rake angle is used, if a very small depth of cut is used, or if the workpiece material is gummy. As a cutting tool wears, it becomes more blunt and the burnishing effect becomes more pronounced. In grinding, since the abrasive grains are randomly oriented and some are not sharp, there is always some amount of burnishing. This is one reason the grinding is less efficient and generates more heat than turning. In drilling, burnishing occurs with drills that have lands to burnish the material as it drills into it. Regular twist drills or straight fluted drills have 2 lands to guide them through the hole. On burnishing drills there are 4 or more lands, similar to reamers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23002606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23002606", "title": "Carnaval de Ponce", "text": "Carnaval de Ponce\n\nThe Carnaval de Ponce (English: Ponce Carnival), officially Carnaval Ponceño, is an annual celebration held in Ponce, Puerto Rico. The celebration lasts one week and it ends on the day before Ash Wednesday. Thus, it is generally held in February and sometimes in March. It is one of the oldest carnivals of the Western Hemisphere, dating back to 1858. Some authorities, such as the Smithsonian Institution, believe the Ponce Carnaval can be traced to as far back as 250 years ago. The Carnaval coincides with the Mardi Gras of New Orleans, the Carnival of Venice, and Rio de Janeiro's Carnival. The estimated attendance is 100,000. Scenes of the 2011 Carnaval Ponceño were featured in the Travel Channel on 7 August 2011.\n\nThere are no documents stating the official origin of the Carnaval, but there are documents mentioning the celebration back in 1858. The Carnaval de Ponce thus began in 1858 and was started as a mask dance by a Spaniard by the name of José de la Guardia. The masquerade dance continued as a tradition through the years, but it was not until the 1950s that the municipal government added the parade to the Carnaval. In the early 1960s, the Carnaval began to integrate floats that represented civic and cultural institutions, public and private residential communities, schools, colleges and universities, banking, industry and commerce.The Office of Cultural Development of the Municipality of Ponce explains that “it is believed that the influence of the Nice Carnival extended to Barcelona and that immigrants from Barcelona brought it to Ponce. With the passing of time Poceans have added their own touches with Afro-Antillean music that fills the celebrations with percussion, rhythm and happiness.\" \n\nIn June 1995, Carnaval de Ponce was taken to New York City where, during the Puerto Rican Day Parade, over 200 entertainers, folk artists and musicians from Ponce, in addition to the Banda Municipal de Ponce and the Carnival's Queen and Child Queen, marched down New York's Fifth Avenue as part of that City's Puerto Rican Day Celebration. During the week leading to the Parade, folk artists from the Carnaval de Ponce, toured the City teaching children to make the traditional Ponce carnival's masks. In 2012, a local news weekly called Carnaval de Ponce \"Puerto Rico's National Carnival\".\n\nOne of the traditions of the Carnaval is the appearance of the \"vejigantes\", which is a colorful costume traditionally representing the devil or, simply, evil. Vejigantes carry blown cow bladders with which they make sounds and hit carnival attendees throughout the processions. \n\nThe traditional vejigante masks of the Ponce carnival are made of paper mache and are characterized by the presence of multiple horns. The mask was developed by Ponce artisans in the early part of the 20th century. They are made from newsprint paper mixed with homemade glue and paint. Sophisticated Ponce carnival masks are sought after by mask collectors and masks from Ponce have become a symbol of Puerto Rico at large. \n\nThe Carnaval ends with the Burial of the Sardine, at which point everyone sings a song in Spanish that translates into: The burial of the Sardine event started in 1967. (The Ball Dance was also started in 1967.The burial of the Sardine event started in 1967.\n\n<poem>\n\"The Carnival is dead now\"\n\"They are burying him;\"\n\"Throw just a little dirt in\"\n\"So he can rise again.\"</poem>\nThe municipal government invests close to $100,000 in the Carnival and the event infuses some $500,000 into the city's economy.\n\nThe Carnaval starts on the Wednesday before Ash Wednesday, and the events are as follows.\n\nWednesday: Vejigantes Party\nThursday: King Momo Entrance Parade\nFriday: Crowning of the Child Queen\nSaturday: Crowning of the Carnival Adult Queen\nSunday: Main Parade\nMonday: Carnival's Ball Dance\nTuesday: Burial of the Sardine\n\nIn 1959, the Carnaval introduced the crowing of a Carnaval queen. This was followed, in 1973, with the crowing of a Carnaval child queen. The following are the Carnaval queens and child queens.\n\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10380335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10380335", "title": "Delaware State Fair", "text": "Delaware State Fair\n\nThe Delaware State Fair is the annual state fair for the state of Delaware. It is held in Harrington. The fair is a ten-day event at the end of July.\n\nThe first Delaware State Fair was held in Wilmington, with mentions of the \"Delaware State Fair\" being found in newspapers as far back as 1869. In 1878, the Delaware State Fair was moved to Fairview Park Fair Grounds in Dover and held September 24–27. The opening speaker of the 1878 Delaware State Fair was Daniel Henry Chamberlain, former Republican Governor of South Carolina, as well as guest speakers J. Proctor Knott, at the time a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives representing Kentucky's 4th congressional district, and Samuel S. Cox, then Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives representing New York's 6th congressional district. \n\nIn 1917, the state fair moved to Elsmere where the Delaware State Fair Association had purchased property and built a fairgrounds within the town limits, in the area of the current Filbert, Birch, and Dover Avenues. The fairgrounds included racetracks, agricultural exhibits, and stages for various entertainment acts.\n\nThe first fair on the current grounds was held in 1920 and was known as the Kent and Sussex County Fair. It lasted four days and was held on . Today the fairgrounds encompass over and feature concerts, wrestling, rodeo, races, agricultural exhibits, slot machines, a midway, and other typical state fair demonstrations and events. The property also hosted a Donald Trump rally for his presidential campaign on April 22, 2016.\n\nThe Delaware State Fair has long been a center for regional entertainment, drawing in crowds from the rest of the state, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland. It is one of few local concert venues, so has been able to attract many popular acts to Delmarva, among them:\n"}
{"id": "33117813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33117813", "title": "Down Town (magazine)", "text": "Down Town (magazine)\n\nDown Town is a magazine published in Greece by the Imako Media Group. Aimed at fashionable Greek adults, it is one of the best-selling weekly magazines in Greece with a circulation of 27,000. It was established in December 1995. The magazine often features sexually provocative content and always features an attractive female or male Greek celebrity on the cover.\n\n2011 cover features included Sissi Christidou, Erika Prezerakou, Maria Solomou, Kalomoira Sarantis, Zeta Makrypoulia, Alexis Georgoulis, Katerina Papoutsaki, Michalis Hatzigiannis, Eleonora Meleti, Elli Kokkinou, Sakis Rouvas and Dimitra Matsouka.\n"}
{"id": "21282682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21282682", "title": "EuroSTAR Conference", "text": "EuroSTAR Conference\n\nThe EuroSTAR Conference is the premier and largest gathering of European software testing professionals. EuroSTAR Conference 2018 will take place in the Hague, Netherlands from November 12 to November 15, 2018.\n\nThe first EuroSTAR conference took place in London in October 1993 as a sister conference of (US-based) STAR Conferences organised by William C. Hetzel and Gelperin in conjunction with the British Computer Society.\n\nEuroSTAR stands for European Software Testing Analysis & Review.\n\nEuroSTAR is a pan-European software testing conference and takes place in a different European city each year. Cities visited so far include London (1993, 1995) Brussels (1994, 1997) Amsterdam (1996, 2003, 2012), Edinburgh (1997, 2002), Munich (1998), Barcelona (1999), Copenhagen (2000, 2005, 2010, 2017), Manchester (2006, 2011), Stockholm (2001, 2007, 2009), Cologne (2004), The Hague (2008), Dublin (2014) and Maastricht (2015). The annual conference has been the origin of many notable milestones in the history of software testing including the introduction of the W-Model by Paul Herzlich in 1993, the foundation of Dutch Special Interest Group in Software Testing (SIGIST) TestNet at EuroSTAR 1996 and the foundation of the Test Lab (2009) which has since become a focal point at many international conferences on software testing. Proceedings at EuroSTAR have been cited in many publications on software testing and the conference is regularly featured on best international software testing conference lists and IT journals.\n\nThe European Testing Excellence Award has been awarded at the annual EuroSTAR Conference since 1998. The award seeks to recognise significant contributions to the field of software testing in Europe. Notable past winners of the European Testing Excellence Award include Martin Pol, Dorothy Graham, Tim Koomen, Geoff Thompson and Gerald Weinberg.\n"}
{"id": "31831580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31831580", "title": "European Youth Capital", "text": "European Youth Capital\n\nThe European Youth Capital (abbreviated EYC) is the title awarded to a European city for the period of one year, during which it is given the chance to showcase, through a multi-faceted programme, its youth-related cultural, social, political and economic life and development. The \nEuropean Youth Capital is an initiative by the European Youth Forum, and the first capital was chosen in 2009. Since 2014, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe is an official endorsing partner the European Youth Capital title. The current, capital for the 2018 calendar year is Cascais.\n\nThe European Youth Capital aims in promoting intra-European co-operation between young people. Among the most important aspects of the institution is the betterment of everyday life of the youth in the city selected as youth capital, not just for the duration of the festivities, but in the long term. Additionally, participation of the youth in the design and implementation of the plans for each capital of youth is encouraged by the EYC. Ensuring that the youth are informed and actively involved in society and given opportunities for a better future is also a priority for the EYC initiative. Tourism and increased international prestige are some of the additional benefits of being named European Youth Capital.\n\nSince 2009, there have been next European Youth Capitals:\n\n"}
{"id": "1840514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840514", "title": "Expedition of the Thousand", "text": "Expedition of the Thousand\n\nThe Expedition of the Thousand (Italian \"Spedizione dei Mille\") was an event of the Italian Risorgimento that took place in 1860. A corps of volunteers led by Giuseppe Garibaldi sailed from Quarto, near Genoa (now Quarto dei Mille) and landed in Marsala, Sicily in order to conquer the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, ruled by the Spanish Bourbons.\n\nThe project was an ambitious and risky venture aiming to conquer, with a thousand men, a kingdom with a larger regular army and a more powerful navy. The expedition was a success and concluded with a plebiscite that brought Naples and Sicily into the Kingdom of Sardinia, the last territorial conquest before the creation of the Kingdom of Italy on 17 March 1861.\n\nThe sea venture was the only desired action that was jointly decided by the \"four fathers of the nation\" Giuseppe Mazzini, Giuseppe Garibaldi, Victor Emmanuel II, and Camillo Cavour, pursuing divergent goals. However, the Expedition was instigated by Francesco Crispi, who utilized his political influence to bolster the Italian unification project.\n\nThe various groups participated in the expedition for a variety of reasons: for Garibaldi, it was to achieve a united Italy; to the Sicilian bourgeoisie, an independent Sicily as part of the kingdom of Italy, and for common people, land distribution and the end of oppression.\n\nThe events of the Expedition took place within the overall process of the unification of Italy, which was largely orchestrated by Camillo Cavour, Prime Minister of Sardinia-Piedmont, as his life's work. After the annexation of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, the Duchies of Modena and Parma and the Romagna to Piedmont in March 1860, Italian nationalists set their sights on the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, which comprised all of southern mainland Italy and Sicily, as the next step toward their dream of unification of all Italian lands.\n\nIn 1860 Garibaldi, already the most famous Italian revolutionary leader, was in Genoa planning an expedition against Sicily and Naples, with the covert support of the United Kingdom. Sicilian leaders, among them Francesco Crispi, were discontented with Neapolitan rule over the island. Moreover, Britain was worried by the approaches of the Neapolitans towards the Russian Empire in the latter's attempt to open its way to the Mediterranean Sea; the strategic importance of the Sicilian ports was also to be dramatically increased by the opening of the Suez Canal. It has been also suggested (by Lorenzo del Boca, among the others) that British support for Garibaldi's expedition was spurred by the necessity to obtain more favourable economic conditions for Sicilian sulfur, which was needed in great quantities for munitions. \n\nThe Kingdom of Sardinia-Piedmont needed a presentable casus belli in order to attack the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. This was needed for the House of Savoy, which however never gave any declaration of war against the Bourbon kingdom, a necessary condition, since this was among the requirements presented to Cavour. The only occurrence that would have satisfied this requirement was an uprising from within. Such an event would have felt the alienation of the people to the dynasty that ruled in Naples and, particularly, the inability of Francis of Bourbon, to ensure, in forms acceptable public policy in their domains. Sicily, as shown by the history of the past decades, was fertile ground, and the liberal south, especially those returning after an amnesty granted by the young King, who worked in this direction for some time.\n\nIn March 1860, exile Rosolino Pilo exhorted Giuseppe Garibaldi to take charge of an expedition to liberate Southern Italy from Bourbon rule. At first, Garibaldi was against it, but eventually agreed. By May 1860, Garibaldi had collected 1,089 volunteers for his expedition to Sicily.\n\nThe largest number of volunteers came from Lombardy (434 volunteers), Other significant numbers of volunteers came from \"occupied\" Venetia (194 volunteers), Genoa (156 volunteers), and Tuscany (78 volunteers). There were about 45 Sicilian volunteers and 46 Neapolitan volunteers—but only 11 from Rome and the Papal States. Thirty three (33) foreigners joined the expedition, amongst them István Türr and three other Hungarians and fourteen (14) Italians from the Trentino of the Austrian Empire. The majority of the volunteers were students and artisans from the lower classes.\n\nThe 1,089 volunteers were poorly armed with dated muskets and were dressed in a minimalist uniform—consisting of a red shirt and grey trousers.\n\nDuring the night of 5 May, a small group led by Nino Bixio \"seized\" two steamships in Genoa from the Rubattino shipping company (which the ships were actually secretly granted by the company, but done in such approach to prevent taking any responsibility by plausible deniability) in order to transport the volunteers to Sicily. They took the two ships, which they had renamed \"Il Piemonte\" and \"Il Lombardo\", to the nearby rocks at Quarto dei Mille, Genoa, where the volunteers (including Francesco Crispi's wife, Rosalia) embarked for Sicily.\n\nThe ships landed at Marsala, on the westernmost point of Sicily, on 11 May, with the help of British ships present in the harbour to deter the Bourbon ships. The \"Lombardo\" was attacked and sunk only after the disembarkation had been completed, while the \"Piemonte\" was captured. The landing had been preceded by the arrival of Francesco Crispi and others, who had the task of gaining the support of the locals for the volunteers.\n\nOn 14 May, at Salemi, Garibaldi announced that he was assuming dictatorship over Sicily in the name of King Victor Emmanuel II of Sardinia.\n\nThe \"Mille\" won a first battle at Calatafimi against around 2,000 Neapolitan troops on 15 May. The battle boosted the morale of the \"Mille\" and, at the same time, depressed the Neapolitans, who were poorly led by their often corrupted higher officers, and started to feel themselves abandoned. Having promised land to every male who volunteered to fight against the Bourbons the ranks of the \"Mille\" enlarged to 1,200 with local men. On 27 May, with the help of a popular insurrection, the \"Mille\" laid siege to Palermo, the island's capital. The city was defended by some 16,000 men, but these were under the confused and timid direction of general Ferdinando Lanza, aged 75 (probably one of the Neapolitan officers bribed with English money).\n\nWhile two columns of Garibaldines attacked the perimeter, part of the population, strengthened by 2,000 prisoners liberated from the local jails, rose against the garrison. When his troops were driven back from most of their positions, Lanza ordered them to bombard the city for three days, causing the deaths of 600 civilians. By 28 May Garibaldi controlled much of the city and declared the Bourbon authority deposed. The following day a desperate Neapolitan counteroffensive was driven back, and Lanza asked for a truce. However, when a reinforcement party of well equipped and well trained troops arrived in the city, the situation became very serious for Garibaldi, who was saved only by Lanza's decision to surrender. Through the mediation of a British admiral, an armistice was signed and the Neapolitan fleet abandoned the port.\n\nThe Bourbon troops were ordered to retreat eastwards and evacuate the island. An insurrection that had broken out in Catania on 31 May, led by Nicola Fabrizi, was crushed by the local garrison, but the order to leave for Messina meant that this Neapolitan tactical success would have no practical results.\n\nAt the time only Syracuse, Augusta, Milazzo and Messina remained in royal hands in Sicily. In the meantime Garibaldi issued his first law. A levy failed to muster more than 20,000 troops, while the peasants, who hoped to an immediate relief from the grievous conditions to which they were forced by the landowners, revolted in several localities. At Bronte, on 4 August 1860, Garibaldi's friend Nino Bixio bloodily repressed one of these revolts with two battalions of Redshirts.\n\nThe pace of Garibaldi's victories had worried Cavour, who in early July sent him a proposal of immediate annexation of Sicily to Piedmont. Garibaldi, however, refused vehemently to allow such a move until the end of the war. Cavour's envoy, La Farina, was arrested and expelled from the island. He was replaced by the more malleable Agostino Depretis, who gained Garibaldi's trust and was appointed as pro-dictator.\n\nOn 25 June 1860, King Francis II of the Two Sicilies had issued a constitution. However, this late attempt to conciliate his moderate subjects failed to rouse them to defend the regime, while liberals and revolutionaries were eager to welcome Garibaldi.\n\nAt the time, Garibaldi had created the \"Esercito Meridionale\" (\"Southern Army\"), reinforced by other volunteers from Italy and some regular Piedmontese soldiers disguised as \"deserters\". The Neapolitans had mustered some 24,000 men for the defence of Messina and the other fortresses.\n\nOn 20 July Garibaldi attacked Milazzo with 5,000 men. The Neapolitan defence was gallant, but again the absence of coordination and the refusal of Marshal Clary, commander-in-chief of the army in the island, to send reinforcements from Messina granted the Mille another victory. Six days later Clary surrendered the city of Messina to Garibaldi, leaving only 4,000 in the citadel and other forts. The other strongholds surrendered by the end of September.\n\nOn 19 August Garibaldi's men disembarked in Calabria, a move opposed by Cavour, who had written the Dictator a letter urging him to not cross the strait. Garibaldi, however, disobeyed, an act which had the silent approval of King Victor Emmanuel.\n\nThe Bourbons had some 20,000 men in Calabria, but, apart from some episodes like that of Reggio Calabria, which was conquered at high cost by Bixio on 21 August, they offered insignificant resistance, as numerous units of the Bourbon army disbanded spontaneously or even joined Garibaldi's ranks. On 30 August a conspicuous Sicilian army, led by general Ghio, was officially disbanded at Soveria Mannelli, while only minor and dispersed units continued the fight. The Neapolitan fleet behaved in a similar way.\n\nKing Francis II was thus forced to abandon Naples and entrench himself in the formidable fortress of Gaeta, while a last stand was set up on the Volturno river, north of Naples. On 7 September Garibaldi took possession of Naples with little harm (he entered the city by train), hailed as a liberator by the population.\n\nIn the meantime the Kingdom of Sardinia invaded the Papal States conquering Central Italy (Lazio excluded) through few battles such as the Battle of Castelfidardo, and entered the Kingdom of Two Sicilies joining Giuseppe Garibaldi.\n\nIn the indecisive Battle of the Volturnus (1 and 2 October), Garibaldi, with a force of 24,000 men, was not able to conclusively defeat the Neapolitan Army (about 25,000 men). Only the arrival of the Sardinian army obliged the last organized Bourbon force to entrench in Gaeta.\n\nA few days later (21 October) a plebiscite confirmed the annexation of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies to the Kingdom of Sardinia by an overwhelming majority.\n\nThe end of the expedition is traditionally set with the famous meeting in Teano (northern Campania) between Victor Emmanuel and Garibaldi (26 October 1860). Others assign instead the end of the campaign to the King's entrance into Naples on 7 November.\n\nHowever, the military campaign was not yet fully completed, as Francis II held out in Gaeta until February of the next year, when he finally surrendered to the Sardinian army led by Enrico Cialdini, and left for exile in the Papal States. Shortly thereafter, in March 1861, the new Kingdom of Italy (\"Regno d'Italia\") was formally established.\n\nGaribaldi asked the King to remain in the former Two Sicilies for a year as dictator. He also asked that his officers be integrated in the new Italian Army. When Victor Emmanuel refused to grant the dictator his request but agreed to integrate the men and officers, he returned to Caprera.\n\nThe Expedition of the Thousand has traditionally been one of the most celebrated events of the Italian Risorgimento, the process of the unification of Italy.\n\nIn the following years, the rise of local resistance (the so-called \"brigantaggio\" or brigandage), required at one point the presence of some 140,000 Piedmontese troops to maintain control of the former Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. Traditionally, the handling of the \"brigantaggio\" has received a negative judgement by Italian historians, in strict contrast with the heroism attributed to Garibaldi and his followers; the English historian Denis Mack Smith, for example, points out the deficiencies and reticence of the sources available for the period 1861-1946, but the same historian also pointed out the backwardness of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies at the time of the unification.\n\nThe expedition, moreover, obtained the support of the powerful great landowners of southern Italy in exchange for the promise that their properties be left intact in the upcoming political settlement. Numerous Sicilian peasants, however, had joined the Mille hoping instead for a redistribution of the land to the people working it. The consequences of this misunderstanding became evident at Bronte.\n\n"}
{"id": "39311107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39311107", "title": "Fringe World", "text": "Fringe World\n\nFringe World Festival is an annual multi-arts fringe festival held in Perth, Western Australia during the city's summer festival season of January/February. Fringe World is recognised as the third largest Fringe in the world. The 2018 Festival recorded over 368,000 tickets sold, valued at $10.1 million and attendance at free and ticketed events was almost one million.\n\nThe annual program of events features artists and acts from a range of styles including circus, cabaret, comedy, music, dance, theatre, film and visual art. Fringe World is produced by Artrage who is recognised as one of the largest and most successful arts organisations in Western Australia.\n\nFringe World is an open access Festival, which means that artists from anywhere in the world can register to be part of the Festival. The open access policy is similar to that of the Adelaide Fringe and Edinburgh Fringe festivals.\n\nThe Festival features many 'pop-up' venues, such as De Parel Spiegeltent, which was purchased by Artrage in 2011 with the assistance of Lotterywest. The full name of Fringe World's spiegeltent is De Parel Van Vuren or 'The Pearl of Fire', it was built in 1905 by Belgium's renowned Klessen family. The venue has unique architecture and a long touring history in Europe. Fringe World is the only fringe festival in the world to own its own spiegeltent. In 2016, Fringe World facilitated the purchase of a spiegeltent for Edith Cowan University; the venue will be re-named The Edith Spiegeltent.\n\nFringe World Festival is held prior to and with a two-week crossover to the Perth International Arts Festival. Fringe World and the Perth Festival are separate organisations/events.\n\nIn 2019, the Festival will take place across 138 venues and performance spaces from 18 January to 17 February. This Festival will see the introduction of a new FRINGE WORLD hub at Yagan Square. A weekly busking event called Fringe Fridays will also be introduced, with buskers from all over the world performing at the Twilight Hawkers Market. Fringe Sundays is another new addition to the Festival, which consists of teaser performances from ket shows in the FRINGE WORLD Festival program.\n\nThe Festival Fringe Society of Perth was established in 1983 and was the forerunner to the Fringe World Festival. The Society held an annual Fringe Festival up until 1988 at which time the organisation decided to move the Fringe from summer to spring and to re-brand it as Artrage, an annual festival dedicated to the presentation of alternative independent arts – a format that was followed until the organisation's 25th 'Silver' Festival Anniversary in 2008. Shortly after this time Artrage began consulting with stakeholders and the wider arts community in Perth around the idea of reintroducing a genuine independent 'fringe' to the Perth summer. This led to the presentation of a pilot Fringe program in February 2011, staged in the newly purchased De Parel Spiegeltent in the Perth Cultural Centre. The pilot Festival featured 23 events at six venues and there were 12,000 tickets sold. The success of this pilot Festival gave Artrage the encouragement and confidence that there was enough appetite for a full Festival to be delivered the following year.\n\nThe 2012 Festival was the first full Fringe World Festival, held from 26 January to 19 February. The Festival presented over 200 events running across 40 traditional and non-traditional venues in Perth. Free and ticketed attendance was over 150,000 and box office sales was over $1 million.\n\nThe 2013 Festival extended one week more than in 2012 and was held from 25 January to 24 February. Ticketed attendance at the 2013 Festival was over 120,000 and the program featured more than 300 events at more than 60 venues. The total free and ticketed attendance was over 215,000 and over $2 million was spent at the box office. The majority of events in the 2011–2013 Fringe World Festivals were held in Northbridge and the Perth CBD, but more specifically at several pop-up performance venues (including De Parel Spiegeltent) in the Perth Cultural Centre.\n\nIn 2014 Fringe World revealed that it would be expanding its presence in Northbridge with another site of venues to be held in Russell Square, Perth, which would be transformed into The Pleasure Garden for the Festival's duration. The 2014 Festival was held from 24 January to 23 February and featured 1,788 participating artists, 418 free and ticketed events, 80 venues, free and ticketed attendance of over 370,000 and box office sales of over $3.2million.\n\nThe 2015 Fringe World Festival was held from 23 January to 22 February and was billed as '31 Days of Perthect' featuring a program of more than 500 events at over 100 venues throughout the Perth metropolitan area. The 2015 Festival featured The Gold Digger, a new custom-designed pop-up venue in the State Theatre Centre of Western Australia courtyard, that presented a program of Australian and international comedy talent as part of the Fringe Comedy Central program. The Gold Digger was presented by the Perth Theatre Trust as part of a long-term collaboration with Fringe World.\n\nThe 2016 Fringe World Festival was held from 22 January to 21 February. The Festival recorded over 350,000 tickets sold, valued at $9.3 million and attendance at free and ticketed events was almost one million. A new feature to the Festival was the FRINGE WORLD Fairground, which was part of the opening celebrations of the new waterside precinct, Elizabeth Quay. A 1920s fairground on Perth's waterfront called 'Uglieland' was an inspiration for the Fringe World Fairground. The 2016 Festival delivered $8.3 million in gross box office returns to artists and boosted Perth's cultural life, tourism appeal and social cohesion.\n\nThe 2017 Fringe World Festival was held from 20 January to 19 February, during which time the Festival expanded into a new venue at Cathedral Square in Perth, where the Edith Spiegeltent hosted La Soirée. Total box office across the Festival grew to $10.2 million and it is estimated that visitors to Fringe World spent more than $60.6 million with a total flow on economic impact of $84.3 million.\n\nThe 2018 Fringe World Festival was held from 26 January to 25 February 2018. The Ice Cream Factory was a new addition to the Festival, where Club Swizzle was presented in this custom built venue. Over 368,000 tickets sold were sold at the box office valued at $10.1 million.\n\n2019\n\nThe 2019 Fringe World Festival takes place across 138 venues and performance spaces from 18 January to 17 February. \n\nFringe World has been touring to regional Western Australia since 2012.\n\nWith support from Fringe World partner Woodside De Parel Spiegeltent has toured to Karratha several times since 2012 to present shows at the Red Earth Arts Festival. Also with support from Woodside, Fringe World has toured artists to the Shinju Matsuri Festival in Broome.\n\nSupport from the Western Australian Department of Premier and Cabinet enabled Fringe World to present the Outer Fringe tour to regional WA from 2013 – 2015.\n\nThe 2016 regional tour was self-funded by Artrage and visited Esperance, Kalgoorlie, Ravensthorpe, Northam and Mullewa.\n\nFringe World events are presented at venues in the Perth metropolitan area and further afield in Western Australia. The Festival hubs (clusters of venues) are located in Northbridge at Yagan Square, The Perth Cultural Centre, The Ice Cream Factory and The Pleasure Garden at Russell Square, Perth.\n\nFestival events are also presented in independent venues and programs. These include: \n\nFringe World is part of the World Fringe Alliance alongside other key fringe festivals including;\n\n"}
{"id": "52415583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52415583", "title": "GOES-T", "text": "GOES-T\n\nGOES-T is the third of the next generation of weather satellites operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), giving sequence to the GOES system. The next satellites of the series (GOES-16, GOES-17, T, and U) will extend the availability of the GOES satellite system until 2036. The satellite will be built by Lockheed Martin, it will be based on the A2100A platform and will an expected useful life of 15 years (10 operational after five years in orbit replacement).\n\nThe satellite is expected to be launched into space in June 2020 from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, United States. It will have a mass of 2,800 kg.\n"}
{"id": "24131769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24131769", "title": "Global Game Jam", "text": "Global Game Jam\n\nThe Global Game Jam (GGJ) is an annual distributed game jam. Inspired by the Nordic Game Jam, and created by Susan Gold, Ian Schreiber, Gorm Lai and Foaad Khosmood, originally developed under the International Game Developers Association Education SIG to bring together the elements of creativity, collaboration and experimentation. At each site, participants gather to develop ideas, form small groups, create new, creative, innovative games, and present them to their peers and the global community, all in a limited time span. As of 2013, GGJ is managed by Global Game Jam Incorporated.. Current and past board directors include the founders Elonka Dunin, Lindsay Grace and Zuraida Buter. In January 2018, GGJ generated teams in 803 sites in 108 countries, who over the course of one weekend created 8,606 games. The Global Game Jam carries a registered trademark.\n\nParticipants in the Global Game Jam are of all skill levels and in various fields. Everyone from professional game developers to educators to artists and designers is welcome to participate. Once the jam begins, participants come up with game ideas, before pitching those ideas to each other and forming teams to work together on a project.\n\nGroups wishing to host a jam site must fulfill certain requirements. Their location must have Internet access for everyone involved, access to development resources such as an IDE, possibly preinstalled at the location, an event coordinator, beverages and nearby food access, round-the-clock availability of the location, and security for belongings.\n\nAt each site, the Global Game Jam runs continuously for 48 hours in each time zone, beginning at 5:00 PM on the start date, and ending at 5:00 PM two days later. The recommended schedule includes a short planning and team creation period, followed by development time until 3:00 PM on the final day. The last few hours are set aside for teams to present their creation to each other. However, sites are not required to follow this schedule.\n\nAt the beginning of the event participants are given a theme, such as “Extinction” in the 2011 Jam. Participants are asked to create a game that in some way relates to this theme. Additionally, participants are given a list of “achievements”, also referred to as diversifiers. These are designed to drive creative development by adding a unique or limiting factor to their a game’s design. Examples include “Both Hands Tied Behind My Back”, in which a game should be designed to be played without the player’s hands, or “Picasso Lives”, in which game art must be cubist in style.\n\nThe first Global Game Jam was held from January 30 – February 1, 2009, at 53 locations across the globe. During the jam, 1650 participants created 370 games.\n\nThe second Jam expanded further in 2010, increasing to 138 sites and resulting in 900 games made by 4300 creators.\n\nThe 2011 Game Jam, which ran January 28–30, gathered 6500 participants at 169 sites who created over 1500 games total.\n\nThe 2012 Game Jam ran January 27–29 with over 10,684 participants in 242 locations (47 countries). 2209 games were created. According to a March 2 press release, the Global Game Jam is recognized as the largest in the world by the Guinness Book of World Records.\n\nThe 2013 Game Jam was held January 25-27 with 16,705 participants in 319 locations (63 countries). 3248 games were created.\n\nThe 2014 GGJ was held January 24–26 with 23,198 participants in 488 locations (72 countries). 4290 games were created.\n\nThe 2015 GGJ took place from 23 to 25 January with 28,837 participants in 518 registered jam sites in 518 locations (78 countries). 5438 games were created.\n\nThe 2016 GGJ was held January 29-31 with over 36,164 participants in 93 countries.\n\nThe 2017 GGJ was held January 20-22 with over 36,401 participants in 95 countries.\n\nThe 2018 GGJ was held January 26-28 with 42,811 participants in 108 countries. 8,606 games were made at 803 locations.\n\n\nAll games produced are created under the Creative Commons Non Commercial Share Alike 3.0 free license, and while they remain the intellectual property of their creators, the Global Game Jam retains the ability to use any game as promotional material. As a part of this and as part of the license, every game is archived, along with source code for many digital games, on Global Game Jam’s website.\n\n"}
{"id": "847626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847626", "title": "Iraqi insurgency (2003–2011)", "text": "Iraqi insurgency (2003–2011)\n\nAn insurgency began in Iraq after the 2003 US-led invasion, and lasted throughout the ensuing Iraq War (2003–2011).\nThe first phase of the insurgency began shortly after the 2003 invasion and prior to the establishment of the new Iraqi government. From around 2004 to May 2007, the insurgency primarily targeted the Multi-National Force – Iraq, while latterly, Iraqi security forces, seen, by Iraqi insurgents, as collaborators with the coalition, were also targeted.\n\nWith the full-scale eruption of the sectarian civil war in February 2006, many militant attacks in American-controlled central Iraq were directed at the Iraqi police and military forces of the Iraqi government. The attacks continued during the transitional reconstruction of Iraq, as the Iraqi government tried to establish itself. Civil war violence decreased in late 2008 and the insurgency continued through the American withdrawal from Iraq in 2011. After the withdrawal in December 2011, a renewed wave of sectarian and anti-government insurgency swept Iraq, causing thousands of casualties in 2012. Increasing violence in 2013 raised fears of another civil war.\n\nThe insurgents in Iraq have been composed of a diverse mix of militias, foreign fighters, all-Iraqi units or mixtures opposing the American-led Multi-National Force – Iraq and the post-2003 Iraqi government. During the height of the Iraq War in 2006 to 2008, the fighting involved both armed conflict against the American-led military coalition, as well as sectarian violence among the different ethnic groups within the population. The insurgents were involved in asymmetric warfare and a war of attrition against the American-supported Iraqi government and American forces in central Iraq, while conducting coercive tactics against rivals or other militias. Iraq's deep sectarian divides have been a major dynamic in the insurgency, with support for the insurgents varying among different segments of the population.\n\nThe 2003 invasion of Iraq (19 March – 1 May 2003) began the Iraq War, or \"Operation Iraqi Freedom\", in which a combined force of troops from the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Poland invaded Iraq and toppled the government of Saddam Hussein within 21 days of major combat operations. The invasion phase consisted of a conventionally fought war which concluded with the capture of the Iraq capital Baghdad by U.S. forces.\n\nFour countries participated with troops during the initial invasion phase, which lasted from 19 March to 9 April 2003. These were the United States (148,000), United Kingdom (45,000), Australia (2,000), and Poland (194). Thirty-six other countries were involved in its aftermath. In preparation for the invasion, 100,000 U.S. troops were assembled in Kuwait by 18 February. The United States supplied the majority of the invading forces, but also received support from Kurdish irregulars in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nThe invasion was preceded by an air strike on the Presidential Palace in Baghdad on 19 March 2003. The following day coalition forces launched an incursion into Basra Province from their massing point close to the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border. While the special forces launched an amphibious assault from the Persian Gulf to secure Basra and the surrounding petroleum fields, the main invasion army moved into southern Iraq, occupying the region and engaging in the Battle of Nasiriyah on 23 March. Massive air strikes across the country and against Iraqi command and control threw the defending army into chaos and prevented an effective resistance. On 26 March the 173rd Airborne Brigade was airdropped near the northern city of Kirkuk where they joined forces with Kurdish rebels and fought several actions against the Iraqi army to secure the northern part of the country.\n\nThe main body of coalition forces continued their drive into the heart of Iraq and met with little resistance. Most of the Iraqi military was quickly defeated and Baghdad was occupied on 9 April. Other operations occurred against pockets of the Iraqi army including the capture and occupation of Kirkuk on 10 April, and the attack and capture of Tikrit on 15 April. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and the central leadership went into hiding as the coalition forces completed the occupation of the country.\n\nOn 1 May, an end of major combat operations was declared, ending the invasion stage of the Iraq War and beginning the military occupation period and the Iraqi insurgency against coalition forces.\n\nThe Iraqi insurgency of 2003–06 erupted following the invasion of Iraq and the toppling of Saddam Hussein's rule in May 2003. The armed insurgent opposition to the United States-led multinational force in Iraq and the post-2003 Iraqi government lasted until early 2006, when it deteriorated into a sectarian civil war, the most violent phase of the Iraq War.\n\nFollowing the U.S.-launched 2003 invasion of Iraq, the situation deteriorated, and by 2007, the intercommunal violence between Iraqi Sunni and Shi'a factions was described by the National Intelligence Estimate as having elements of a civil war. In a 10 January 2007 address to the American people, President George W. Bush stated that \"80% of Iraq's sectarian violence occurs within of the capital. This violence is splitting Baghdad into sectarian enclaves, and shaking the confidence of all Iraqis.\" Two polls of Americans conducted in 2006 found that between 65% to 85% believed Iraq was in a civil war; however, a similar poll of Iraqis conducted in 2007 found that 61% did not believe that they were in a civil war.\n\nIn October 2006, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Iraqi government estimated that more than 370,000 Iraqis had been displaced since the 2006 bombing of the al-Askari Mosque, bringing the total number of Iraqi refugees to more than 1.6 million. By 2008, the UNHCR raised the estimate of refugees to a total of about 4.7 million (~16% of the population). The number of refugees estimated abroad was 2 million (a number close to CIA projections) and the number of internally displaced people was 2.7 million. The estimated number of orphans across Iraq has ranged from 400,000 (according to the Baghdad Provincial Council), to five million (according to Iraq's anti-corruption board). A UN report from 2008 placed the number of orphans at about 870,000. The Red Cross has also stated that Iraq's humanitarian situation remains among the most critical in the world, with millions of Iraqis forced to rely on insufficient and poor-quality water sources.\n\nAccording to the Failed States Index, produced by Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace, Iraq was one of the world's top 5 unstable states from 2005 to 2008. A poll of top U.S. foreign policy experts conducted in 2007 showed that over the next 10 years, just 3% of experts believed the U.S. would be able to rebuild Iraq into a \"beacon of democracy\" and 58% of experts believed that Sunni-Shiite tensions would dramatically increase in the Middle East.\n\nIn June 2008, the U.S. Department of Defense reported that \"the security, political and economic trends in Iraq continue to be positive; however, they remain fragile, reversible and uneven.\" In July 2008, the audit arm of the U.S. Congress recommended that the U.S. Government should \"develop an updated strategy for Iraq that defines U.S. goals and objectives after July 2008 and addresses the long-term goal of achieving an Iraq that can govern, defend, and sustain itself\". Steven Simon, a Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in May 2008 that \"the recent short-term gains\" had \"come at the expense of the long-term goal of a stable, unitary Iraq.\"\n\nAfter Iraqi security forces took the lead in security operations on 30 June 2009, Iraq experienced a \"dramatic reduction in war-related violence of all types ..., with civilian and military deaths down by 80 to 90 percent compared with the same period in 2008.\"\n\nIn 2010, the low point for the al-Qaeda effort in Iraq, car bombings declined to an average of 10 a month and multiple-location attacks occurred only two or three times a year.\n\nThe Iraqi attacks since U.S. withdrawal relates to the last stage of violent terror activities engaged by Iraqi, primarily radical Sunni, insurgent groups against the central government and the sectarian warfare between various factions within Iraq, in the aftermath of the U.S. withdrawal. The events of post-U.S. withdrawal violence succeeded the previous insurgency in Iraq (prior to 18 December 2011), but have showed increasingly violent patterns, raising concerns that the surging violence might slide into another civil war.\n\nThe Iraqi insurgency is composed of at least a dozen major organizations and perhaps as many as 40 distinct groups. These groups are subdivided into countless smaller cells. The Washington-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) estimates that less than 10% of insurgents are non-Iraqi foreign fighters. According to the Chief of the British General Staff, General Sir Richard Dannatt, speaking in September 2007,\n\nBecause of its clandestine nature, the exact composition of the Iraqi insurgency is difficult to determine, but the main groupings are:\n\nThe Ba'athists include former Ba'ath Party officials, the Fedayeen Saddam, and some former agents of the Iraqi intelligence elements and security services, such as the Mukhabarat and the Special Security Organization. Their goal, at least before the capture of Saddam Hussein, was the restoration of the former Ba'athist government to power. The pre-war organization of the Ba'ath Party and its militias as a cellular structure aided the continued pro-Saddam resistance after the fall of Baghdad, and Iraqi intelligence operatives may have developed a plan for guerrilla war following the toppling of Saddam Hussein from power.\n\nFollowing Saddam's capture, the Ba'athist movement largely faded; its surviving factions were increasingly shifting to either nationalist factions (Iraqi, though not Pan-Arab, such as the ideology of the pre-Ba'athist regime), or Islamist (Sunni or Shia, depending on the actual faith of the individual, though Ba'ath Party policy had been secular, and many of its members were atheist).\n\nAs the goal of restoring the Ba'ath Party to power was seemingly out of reach, the alternative solution appeared to be to join forces with organisations who opposed the U.S.-led invasion. Many former Ba'athists had adopted an Islamist façade to attract more credibility within the country, and perhaps gain support from outside Iraq. Others, especially following the January 2005 elections, became more interested in politics.\nThe fall of Baghdad effectively ended the existence of the Fedayeen Saddam as an organized paramilitary. Several of its members died during the war. A large number survived, however, and were willing to carry on the fight even after the fall of Saddam Hussein from power. Many former members joined guerrilla organizations that began to form to resist the U.S-led coalition in Iraq. By June, an insurgency was underway in central and northern Iraq, especially in an area known as the Sunni Triangle. Some units of the Fedayeen also continued to operate independently of other insurgent organizations in the Sunni areas of Iraq. On 30 November 2003, a U.S. convoy traveling through the town of Samarra in the Sunni Triangle was ambushed by over 100 Iraqi guerillas, reportedly wearing trademark Fedayeen Saddam uniforms.\n\nFollowing the execution of Saddam Hussein, Deputy Leader of the Iraqi-cell of the Iraqi-led Ba'ath Party and former Vice President of Iraq Izzat Ibrahim ad-Douri became a leading candidate to succeed him as Leader of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party. Ad-Douri had taken over the running of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party following Saddam Hussein's capture in 2003 and had been endorsed by a previously unknown group calling itself Baghdad Citizens Gathering. On 3 January 2007 the website of the banned Iraqi Ba'ath Party confirmed that he was new leader of the party.\n\nIncreasing Syrian influence in the Iraqi Ba'ath Party may well have a major effect on result in a fragmentation of Ba'athist parts of the insugency.\n\nIraqi nationalists are mostly drawn from the Arab regions. Their reasons for opposing the Coalition vary from a rejection of the Coalition presence as a matter of principle to the failure of the multinational forces to fully restore public services and to quickly restore complete sovereignty.\n\nOne notable leader of the insurgency among nationalist Sunni is former aide to Saddam Hussein and a former regional Ba'ath Party Organiser Mohammed Younis al-Ahmed al-Muwali who has been crossing the border between Iraq and Syria disbursing funds, smuggling weaponry and organising much of the fighting in the central area of Iraq.\n\nOne former minister in the interim government, Ayham al-Samarai, announced the launch in 2005 of \"a new political movement, saying he aimed to give a voice to figures from the legitimate Iraqi resistance. 'The birth of this political bloc is to silence the skeptics who say there is no legitimate Iraqi resistance and that they cannot reveal their political face,' he told a news conference.\" It is unclear what became of this movement.\n\nExamples of Sunni Islamist groups include Mujahideen Shura Council, the Islamic Army in Iraq, al-Qaeda in Iraq, the United Jihad Factions Council and Jaish al-Rashideen. The Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order are also a Sunni/Sufi Islamist organisation but are also Iraqi and Arab Nationalist in orientation.\n\nHard-line clerics and remaining underground cells of the Muslim Brotherhood in Iraq have helped provide support for the indigenous militant Islamist movement. Supportive of this strand is the founder of the ultra-conservative and Wahabbi Association of Muslim Scholars, Sheikh Hareth Al-Dhari.\n\nThe Shia militias have presented Nouri al-Maliki with perhaps the greatest conundrum of his administration given the capture of Amarah. American officials have pressed him hard to disarm the militias and rid the state security forces of their influence.\n\nA 2008 report by the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point based on reports from the interrogations of dozens of captured Shia fighters described an Iranian-run network smuggling Shia fighters into Iran where they received training and weapons before returning to Iraq.\n\nOne major Shia militia in Iraq is the Badr Organization, the military wing of the Supreme Islamic Council of Iraq. The group is currently based in Karbala, Iraq, and is also active in areas throughout southern Iraq. The group was formed by the Iranian Government to fight the Saddam Hussein-controlled Iraq during the Iran–Iraq War. Originally, the group consisted of Iraqi exiles who were banished from Iraq during the reign of Saddam Hussein. After the war ended in 1988, the organization remained in Iran until Saddam Hussein was overthrown during the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Following the invasion, the brigade then moved into Iraq, became members of the new Iraq Army, and aided coalition forces in insurgents.\n\nColonel Derek Harvey told Reuters \"that the U.S. military detained Badr assassination teams possessing target lists of Sunni officers and pilots in 2003 and 2004 but did not hold them. Harvey said his superiors told him that 'this stuff had to play itself out' – implying that revenge attacks by returning Shi'ite groups were to be expected. He also said Badr and ISCI offered intelligence and advice to U.S. officials on how to navigate Iraqi politics.\"\n\nIn a letter published by the Coalition in February 2004, an insurgent believed to be Zarqawi wrote that jihadis should start an open sectarian war so that Sunnis would mobilize against what would otherwise be a secret war being waged by Shia. The author only specifically pointed to assassinations carried out by the Badr Brigade as an example of this secret war.\n\nJerry Burke, an adviser to the Iraqi Interior Ministry, told Musings on Iraq that his plan to surveil and stop suspected Badr Brigade death squads in the special police forces was rejected when it got to an American Flag (General) Officer.\n\nIn December 2005, the group and their leaders in the Supreme Islamic Council of Iraq participated in parliament elections, under the pro-Shiite coalition known as the United Iraqi Alliance, and managed to get 36 members into the Iraqi Parliament.\n\nThe Badr organization supports the government of Nouri Al-Maliki.\n\nSupporters of the young Shi'a cleric Muqtada al-Sadr are largely impoverished men from the Shi'a urban areas and slums in Baghdad and the southern Shi'a cities. The Mahdi Army area of operation stretches from Basra in the south to the Sadr City section of Baghdad in central Iraq (some scattered Shi'a militia activity has also been reported in Baquba and Kirkuk, where Shi'a minorities exist).\n\nDuring his group's active militant phase, Al-Sadr enjoyed wide support from the Iraqi people according to some polls. A poll by the Iraq Center for Research and Studies found that 32% of Iraqis \"strongly supported\" him and another 36% \"somewhat supported\" him, making him the second most popular man in Iraq, behind only Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani. The Mahdi Army is believed to have around 60,000 members.\n\nAfter the December 2005 elections in Iraq, Al-Sadr's party got 32 new seats giving him substantial political power in the divided Iraqi Parliament. In January 2006, he used these seats to swing the vote for prime minister to Ibrahim Al-Jaafari, giving Al-Sadr a legitimate stake in the new Iraqi government and allying Al-Jaafari with the cleric.\n\nOn 27 November 2006, a senior American intelligence official told reporters that the Iranian-backed group Hezbollah had been training members of the Mahdi Army. The official said that 1,000 to 2,000 fighters from the Mahdi Army and other Shia militias had been trained by Hezbollah in Lebanon, and a small number of Hezbollah operatives have also visited Iraq to help with training. Iran has facilitated the link between Hezbollah and the Shia militias in Iraq, the official said. \"There seems to have been a strategic decision taken sometime over late winter or early spring by Damascus, Tehran, along with their partners in ait Lebanese Hezbollah, to provide more support to Sadr to increase pressure on the U.S.,\" the American intelligence official said.\n\nWhen Saddam Hussein was captured in December 2003, several documents were found in his possession. One particular document, which was apparently written after he lost power, appeared to be a directive to his Ba'athist loyalists warning them to be wary of Islamist mujahideen and other foreign Arabs entering the country to join the insurgency. The directive supposedly shows Saddam having concerns that foreign fighters would not share the same objectives as Ba'ath loyalists (i.e. the eventual return of Saddam to power and the restoration of his regime). A U.S. official commenting on the document stressed that while Saddam urged his followers to be cautious in their dealings with other Arab fighters, he did not order them to avoid contact or rule out co-operation. Bruce Hoffman, a Washington counter-terrorism expert stated that the existence of the document underscores the fact that \"this is an insurgency cut of many different cloths...[and] everybody's jockeying for their position of power in the future Iraq.\" Many experts believe that fighters from other countries who have flocked to Iraq to join the insurgents are motivated by animosity toward the United States and the desire to install an Islamic state in place of the Ba'ath Party's secular regime.\n\nForeign fighters are mostly Arabs from neighboring countries, who have entered Iraq, primarily through the porous desert borders of Syria and Saudi Arabia, to assist the Iraqi insurgency. Many of these fighters are Wahhabi fundamentalists who see Iraq as the new \"field of jihad\" in the battle against U.S. forces. It is generally believed that most are freelance fighters, but a few members of Al-Qaeda and the related group Ansar al-Islam are suspected of infiltrating into the Sunni areas of Iraq through the mountainous northeastern border with Iran. The United States and its allies point to Jordanian-born Al-Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi as the key player in this group. Zarqawi was considered the head of an insurgent group called Al-Tawhid Wal-Jihad (\"Monotheism and Holy War\") until his death on 7 June 2006, which according to U.S. estimates numbers in the low hundreds.\n\nUsage of the term \"foreign fighters\" has received criticism as being Western-centric because, taken literally, the term would encompass all non-Iraqi forces, including Coalition forces. Zarqawi has taken to taunting the American forces about the irony of the term: \"Who is the foreigner, O cross worshippers? You are the ones who came to the land of the Muslims from your distant corrupt land.\" (Communiqué of 10 May 2005). Zarqawi's group has since announced the formation of the Ansar platoon, a squad of Iraqi suicide bombers, which an AP writer called \"an apparent bid to deflect criticism that most suicide bombers in Iraq are foreigners.\"\n\nWhile it is not known how many of those fighting the U.S. forces in Iraq are from outside the country, it is generally agreed that foreign fighters make up a very small percentage of the insurgency. Major General Joseph Taluto, head of the 42nd Infantry Division, said that \"99.9 per cent\" of captured Insurgents are Iraqi. The estimate has been confirmed by the Pentagon's own figures; in one analysis of over 1000 insurgents captured in Fallujah, only 15 were non-Iraqi. According to the \"Daily Telegraph\", information from military commanders engaging in battles around Ramadi exposed the fact that out of 1300 suspected insurgents arrested in five months of 2005, none were foreign, although Colonel John Gronski stated that foreigners provided money and logistical support: \"The foreign fighters are staying north of the [Euphrates] river, training and advising, like the Soviets were doing in Vietnam\"\n\nIn September 2006, the \"Christian Science Monitor\" reported, \"It's true that foreign fighters are in Iraq, such as Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. But they are a small minority of the insurgents, say administration critics. Most Iraqi mujahideen are Sunnis who fear their interests will be ignored under Iraq's Shia-dominated government. They are fighting for concrete, local political goals – not the destruction of America.\" The paper quoted University of Michigan history professor Juan Cole: \"If the Iraqi Sunni nationalists could take over their own territory, they would not put up with the few hundred foreign volunteers blowing things up, and would send them away or slit their throats.\" In 2005, the Washington-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) concluded that foreign fighters accounted for less than 10% of the estimated 30,000 insurgents and argued that the U.S. and Iraqi Governments were \"feeding the myth\" that they comprised the backbone of the insurgency.\n\nDespite the low numbers of foreign fighters their presence has been confirmed in several ways and Coalition forces believe the majority of suicide bombings are believed to be carried out by non-Iraqi foreigners. Kenneth Katzman, a Middle East expert with the Congressional Research Service, stated in June 2005: \"I still think 80 percent of the Insurgents, the day to day activity, is Iraqi – the roadside bombings, mortars, direct weapons fire, rifle fire, automatic weapons fire...[but] the foreign fighters attract the headlines with the suicide bombings, no question.\"\n\nIn September 2005, Iraqi and U.S. forces conducted a counter-insurgency operation in the predominantly Turkmen town of Tal Afar. According to an AP, report, an Iraqi Army Captain claimed that Iraqi forces arrested 150 non-Iraqi Arabs (Syria, Sudan, Yemen and Jordan) in the operation; the American army claimed 20% of arrests were foreign combatants, while Donald Rumsfeld on PBS confirmed that foreign combatants were present. However, not all accounts of the battle mention these arrests, and U.S. Army commander Colonel H. R. McMaster said the \"vast majority\" of Insurgents captured there were \"Iraqis and not foreigners.\" Iraqi journalist Nasir Ali claimed that there were \"very few foreign combatants\" in Tal Afar and charged \"Every time the US army and the Iraqi government want to destroy a specific city, they claim it hosts Arab fighters and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.\"\n\nThere are allegations that the U.S. government has attempted to inflate the number of foreign fighters in order to advance the theory that the insurgency is not a local movement. U.S. Army Specialist Tony Lagouranis spoke about his job identifying many of the bodies after the assault on Fallujah:\n\nIn July 2007, the Los Angeles Times reported that 45% of all foreign militants targeting U.S. troops and Iraqi civilians and security forces are from Saudi Arabia; 15% are from Syria and Lebanon; and 10% are from North Africa. 50% of all Saudi fighters in Iraq come as suicide bombers. In the six months preceding that article, such bombings have killed or injured 4,000 Iraqis.\n\nAccording to a U.S. military press briefing on 20 October 2005, 312 foreign nationals from 27 different countries had been captured in Iraq from April to October 2005. This represents a component of the Iraqi insurgent movement, which also includes a nationalist movement encompassing over 30 Shia and Sunni militias.\n\nForeign insurgents captured in Iraq in the 7-month period April–October 2005:\n\nThe extent of Zarqawi's influence is a source of much controversy. Zarqawi was reported killed in action in March 2004 in \"a statement signed by a dozen alleged insurgent groups\". His Jordanian family then held a funeral service on his behalf, although no body was recovered and positively identified. Iraqi leaders denied the presence of Zarqawi in Fallujah prior to the U.S. attack on that city in November 2004. Zarqawi's existence was even questioned.\n\nInvolvement of Zarqawi in significant terrorist incidents was not usually proven, although his group often claimed it perpetrated bombings. As al-Qaeda is an \"opt-in\" group (meaning everyone who agrees to some basic Wahhabi moral tenets and the fundamental goals may consider himself a member), it is most likely that \"Al-Qaeda in Iraq\" is a loose association of largely independent cells united by a common strategy and vision, rather than a unified organization with a firm internal structure.\n\nOn 8 June 2006, Iraqi officials confirmed Zarqawi was killed by two 500 lb laser-guided bombs dropped from an F-16 the previous evening. Abu Ayyub al-Masri, an Egyptian who was trained in Al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan took his place.\n\nA document found in Zarqawi's safe house indicates that the guerrilla group was trying to provoke the U.S. to attack Iran in order to reinvigorate the resistance in Iraq and to weaken American forces in Iraq. \"The question remains, how to draw the Americans into fighting a war against Iran? It is not known whether American is serious in its animosity towards Iraq, because of the big support Iran is offering to America in its war in Afghanistan and in Iraq. Hence, it is necessary first to exaggerate the Iranian danger and to convince America and the west in general, of the real danger coming from Iran...\". The document then outlines 6 ways to incite war between the two nations. Iraqi national security adviser Mowaffak al-Rubaie said the document, shows al-Qaeda in Iraq is in \"pretty bad shape.\" He added that \"we believe that this is the beginning of the end of al-Qaeda in Iraq.\"\n\nJournalist Jill Carroll, detailing her captivity in Iraq, described one of her captors who identified himself as Abdullah Rashid and leader of the Mujahideen Shura Council in Iraq. He told her that; \"The Americans were constantly saying that the mujahideen in Iraq were led by foreigners... So, the Iraqi insurgents went to Zarqawi and insisted that an Iraqi be put in charge.\" She continued by stating; \"But as I saw in coming weeks, Zarqawi remained the insurgents' hero, and the most influential member of their council, whatever Nour/Rashid's position... At various times, I heard my captors discussing changes in their plans because of directives from the council and Zarqawi.\"\n\nLarge-scale terrorist attacks against civilians carried out by foreign fighters, as well as the interpretation of Islam that they attempt to impose on the local population in areas under their control, have increasingly turned Iraqis against them, in some cases breaking out into open fighting between different groups in the insurgency. There are signs that local Islamist insurgent groups have also increasingly caused the population to turn against them.\n\nOpinions differ on how broad this schism is. Terrorism expert Jessica Stern warned that; \"In the run-up to the war, most Iraqis viewed the foreign volunteers who were rushing in to fight against America as troublemakers, and Saddam Hussein's forces reportedly killed many of them.\" This opinion contradicts Iraqi scholar Mustapha Alani, who says that these foreigners are increasingly welcomed by the public, especially in the former Ba'athist strongholds north of Baghdad.\n\nWhile some have noted an alliance of convenience that existed between the foreign fighters and the native Sunni insurgents, there are signs that the foreign militants, especially those who follow Zarqawi, are increasingly unpopular among the native fighters. In the run-up to the December 2005 elections, Sunni fighters were warning al-Qaeda members and foreign fighters not to attack polling stations. One former Ba'athist told Reuters; \"Sunnis should vote to make political gains. We have sent leaflets telling al-Qaeda that they will face us if they attack voters.\" An unnamed Sunni leader was quoted commenting on Zarqawi; \"Zarqawi is an American, Israeli and Iranian agent who is trying to keep our country unstable so that the Sunnis will keep facing occupation.\"\n\nBy early 2006, the split between the Sunni groups and the Zarqawi-led foreign fighters had grown dramatically, and Sunni forces began targeting al-Qaeda forces for assassination. One senior intelligence official told the \"Telegraph\" that Zarqawi had fled to Iran as a result of the attacks. In response to al-Qaeda killings in Iraq, Sunni insurgents in al-Anbar province led by former Ba'athist intelligence officer Ahmed Ftaikhan formed an anti-al-Qaeda militia called the Anbar Revolutionaries. All of the militia's core members have relatives who have been killed by al-Qaeda in Iraq, and they have sought to prevent foreign jihadis from entering the country. The group \"claims to have killed 20 foreign fighters and 33 Iraqi sympathizers.\" The schism became all the more apparent in when a tape alleged to be from the Mujahedeen Shura Council urged Osama Bin Laden to replace al-Qaeda in Iraq's current head with an Iraqi national. The Mujahedeen Shura Council, however, issued a statement shortly afterwards denying the authenticity of this tape.\n\nOn 19 July 2007 seven domestic insurgent groups informed journalists in Damascus that they were forming a united front independent of al-Qaeda.\n\nAn estimated 150 Iranian intelligence officers, plus members of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, are believed to be active inside Iraq at any given time. For more than a year, U.S. troops have detained and recorded fingerprints, photographs, and DNA samples from dozens of suspected Iranian agents in a catch and release program designed to intimidate the Iranian leadership. Iranian influence is felt most heavily within the Iraqi Government, the ISF, and Shiite militias.\n\nInterrogation of members from the Asaib Ahl al Haq network revealed that the group had received substantial Iran-based training in explosives technology; arms and munitions; and some cases of advice. All this is alleged by the U.S. military to have taken place through the Quds force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. It is also alleged that Iran supports Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army.\n\nAlthough the CPA enforced a 1987 law banning unions in public enterprises, trade unions such as the Iraqi Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU) and Iraq's Union of the Unemployed have also mounted effective opposition to the Coalition. However, no trades unions support the armed insurgents, and unions have themselves been subject to attacks from the insurgents. Hadi Saleh of the IFTU was assassinated under circumstances that pointed to a Ba'athist insurgent group on 3 January 2005. Another union federation, the General Union of Oil Employees (GUOE) opposes the Coalition forces in Iraq and calls for immediate withdrawal but was neutral on participation in the election. Whereas the GUOE wants all Coalition troops out immediately, both the IFTU and the Workers Councils' call for replacement of U.S. and British forces with neutral forces from the UN, the Arab League and other nations as a transition.\n\nThe tactics of the Iraqi insurgency vary widely. The majority of militant elements use car bombs, kidnappings, hostage-taking, shootings and other types of attacks to target Iraqis and U.S. forces with little regard for civilian casualties.\nA single study has compared the number of insurgent attacks in Iraq to supposedly negative statements in the U.S. media, release of public opinion polls, and geographic variations in access to international media by Iraqis. The purpose was to determine if there was a link between insurgent activity and media reports. The researchers' study suggested it may be possible that insurgent attacks spiked by 5 to 10% after increases in the number of negative reports of the war in the media. The authors believe this may possibly be an \"emboldenment effect\" and speculated that \"insurgent groups respond rationally to expected probability of US withdrawal.\"\n\nA series of several polls have been conducted to ascertain the position of the Iraqi public further on Al Qaeda in Iraq and the U.S. presence. Some polls have found the following:\n\nDirectly after the invasion, polling suggested that a slight majority supported the US invasion. However polls conducted in June 2005 suggest that there is some sentiment towards Coalition armies being in Iraq. A 2005 poll by British intelligence said that 45% of Iraqis support attacks against Coalition forces, rising to 65% in some areas, and that 82% are \"strongly opposed\" to the presence of Coalition troops. Demands for U.S. withdrawal have also been signed on by one third of Iraq's Parliament. These results are consistent with a January 2006 poll that found an overall 47% approval for attacks on U.S.-led forces. That figure climbed to 88% among Sunnis. Attacks on Iraqi security forces and civilians, however, were approved of by only 7% and 12% of respondents respectively. Polls conducted between 2005 and 2007 showed 31–37% of Iraqi's wanted US and other Coalition forces to withdraw once security was restored and that 26–35% wanted immediate withdrawal instead.\n\nA September 2006 poll of both Sunnis and Shias found that 71% of Iraqis wanted the U.S. to leave within a year, with 65% favoring an immediate pullout and 77% voicing suspicion that the U.S. wanted to keep permanent bases in Iraq. 61% approved of attacks on U.S. forces. A later poll in March 2007 suggests the percentage of Iraqis who approve of attacks on Coalition forces has dropped to 51%. In 2006 a poll conducted on the Iraqi public revealed that 64% of the ones polled said Iraq was going in the right direction and 77% claimed it was worth ousting Saddam Hussein.\n\nDespite a majority having previously been opposed to the US presence, 60% of Iraqis opposed American troops leaving directly prior to withdrawal, with 51% saying withdrawal would have a negative effect.\n\nThe most intense Sunni insurgent activity takes place in the cities and countryside along the Euphrates River from the Syrian border town of al-Qaim through Ramadi and Fallujah to Baghdad, as well as along the Tigris river from Baghdad north to Tikrit. Heavy guerrilla activity also takes place around the cities of Mosul and Tal Afar in the north, as well as the \"Triangle of Death\" south of Baghdad, which includes the \"-iya\" cities of Iskandariya, Mahmudiya, Latifiya, and Yusufiya. Lesser activity takes place in several other areas of the country. The insurgents are believed to maintain a key supply line stretching from Syria through al-Qaim and along the Euphrates to Baghdad and central Iraq, the Iraqi equivalent of the Ho Chi Minh trail. A second \"ratline\" runs from the Syrian border through Tal Afar to Mosul.\n\nAlthough estimates of the total number of Iraqi guerrillas varies by group and fluctuates under changing political climate, the latest assessments put the present number at between 3,000 and 7,000 fighters along with numerous supporters and facilitators throughout the Sunni Arab community. At various points U.S. forces provided estimates on the number of fighters in specific regions. A few are provided here (although these numbers almost certainly have fluctuated):\nGuerilla forces operate in many of the cities and towns of al-Anbar province, due to mostly ineffective Iraqi security forces in this area. There was extensive guerrilla activity in Ramadi, the capital of the province, as well as al-Qa'im, the first stop on an insurgent movement route between Iraq and Syria. In 2006, reports suggested that the Anbar capital Ramadi had largely fallen under insurgent control along with most of the Anbar region, and that as a result the United States had sent an extra 3,500 marines to reestablish control of the region. In the early part of 2007 the insurgency suffered serious setbacks in Ramadi after they were defeated in the Second Battle of Ramadi in the fall of 2006. With the help of the Anbar Salvation Council, incidents fell from an average of 30 attacks per day in December 2006 to an average of fewer than four in April 2007.\n\nBaghdad is still one of the most violent regions of the country, even after the 2007 troop surge more than two-thirds of the violence that takes place in Iraq happens in Baghdad even though the Iraqi Government is in firm control of the entire city. Suicide attacks and car bombs are near daily occurrences in Baghdad. The road from Baghdad to the city airport is the most dangerous in the country, if not the world. Iraqi security and police forces had also been significantly built up in the capital and, despite being constantly targeted, had enjoyed some successes such as the pacification of Haifa Street, which however subsequently saw a massive surge of insurgent activity. and after the failed Coalition Operation Together Forward fell under Sunni insurgent control. The U.S. and Iraqi Forces scored many decisive victories in 2007 during the U.S. troops surge when they launched Operation Law and Order and Operation Phantam Thunder which broke the back of the insurgency and has since the saw a mass reduction in violence by 80 percent since then.\n\nAs time passed the insurgent grasp on Mosul has strengthened and by mid-2007 insurgents had control of most neighborhoods on the west bank of the Tigris, with the exception of the few Coalition bases scattered throughout the city and their immediate surroundings. Kurdish peshmerga-forces are in control of the East bank neighborhoods, mostly populated by fellow Kurds.\n\nRecent intelligence suggests that the base of foreign paramilitary operations has moved from Anbar to the religiously and ethnically mixed Diyala province. By July 2007 Diyala had fallen under almost total Insurgent control, and had become the headquarters for the Sunni-dominated Islamic State of Iraq, which has issued a proclamation declaring the regional capital Baqubah its capital.\n\nIn response to a law allowing for the partitioning of Iraq into autonomous regions, members of the Mutayibeen Coalition (\"Khalf al-Mutayibeen\"), a coalition of Sunni insurgent groups including Al Qaeda in Iraq, announced the creation of the Islamic State of Iraq encompassing parts of 6 of Iraq's 18 provinces on 15 October 2006. Yet another show of defiance came on 18 October when Sunni fighters brazenly paraded in Ramadi. Similar parades were held two days later in several towns across western Iraq, two of which occurred within two miles of U.S. military bases.\n\nBy October 2006, small radicalized militias had seemed to overshadow the larger and more organized Sunni groups which had composed the insurgency previously. As disagreements emerged in pre-existing groups for reasons ranging from the rift in the Sunni forces between foreign and Iraqi fighters, competition between Mahdi Army and Badr Brigade, and anger over various decisions such as Muqtada al Sadr's agreement to join the political process, dozens of insurgency groups sprung up across the country, though particularly in Baghdad where the U.S. army has listed 23 active militias. Residents have described the capital as being a patchwork of militia run fiefs. As a result of the insurgency's splintering nature, many established leaders seemed to lose influence. This was particularly illustrated on 19 October, when members of the Mahdi army briefly seized control of Amarah. The attack, while demonstrating the influence of the Madhi army, is believed to have originated as a result of contention between local units of the Madhi army and the allegedly Badr brigade run security forces, and the timing suggested that neither Al Sadr nor his top commanders had known or orchestrated the offensive.\n\nAt the height of the war, insurgents launched hundreds of attacks each month against Coalition forces. Overtime, insurgency groups moved to more sophisticated methods of attack such as Explosively formed penetrators, and infrared lasers, which cannot be easily jammed. These attacks contributed to the rate of civilian casualties which in turn reduced Iraq's public safety as well as the reliability of infrastructure.\n\nAs of 29 January 2009 4,235 U.S. soldiers, 178 British soldiers and 139 soldiers from other nations (allied with the coalition) have died in Iraq. 31,834 U.S. soldiers had been wounded. Coalition forces do not usually release death counts. As such, the exact number of insurgents killed by the Coalition or Iraqi forces is unknown. Through September 2007 more than 19,000 insurgents were reported to have been killed in fighting with Coalition forces and tens of thousands of Iraqi \"suspected civilians\" were captured (including 25,000 detainees in U.S. military custody at the time), according to military statistics released for the first time.\n\nOver 500 counter-insurgency operations have been undertaken by the U.S.-led Coalition or the Iraqi government. These include Operation Option North and Operation Bayonet Lightning in Kirkuk, Operation Desert Thrust, Operation Abilene and Operation All American Tiger throughout Iraq, Operation Iron Hammer in Baghdad and Operation Ivy Blizzard in Samarra – all in 2003; Operation Market Sweep, Operation Vigilant Resolve and Operation Phantom Fury in Fallujah in 2004; Operation Matador in Anbar, Operation Squeeze Play and Operation Lightning in Baghdad, Operation New Market near Haditha, Operation Spear in Karabillah and the Battle of Tal Afar – all in 2005; Operation Swarmer in Samarra and Operation Together Forward in Baghdad in 2006; and Operation Law and Order in Baghdad, Operation Arrowhead Ripper in Baqouba and Operation Phantom Strike throughout Iraq – all in 2007.\n\nChronology:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2864185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864185", "title": "Jersey Boys", "text": "Jersey Boys\n\nJersey Boys is a 2005 jukebox musical with music by Bob Gaudio, lyrics by Bob Crewe, and book by Marshall Brickman and Rick Elice. It is presented in a documentary-style format that dramatizes the formation, success and eventual break-up of the 1960s rock 'n' roll group The Four Seasons. The musical is structured as four \"seasons\", each narrated by a different member of the band who gives his own perspective on its history and music. Songs include \"Big Girls Don't Cry\", \"Sherry\", \"December 1963 (Oh, What A Night)\", \"My Eyes Adored You\", \"Stay\", \"Can't Take My Eyes Off You\", \"Working My Way Back to You\" and \"Rag Doll\", among others. The title refers to the fact that the members of The Four Seasons are from New Jersey and are male.\n\nThe musical ran on Broadway from 2005 to 2017, and since its debut it has been on two North American national tours and two national tours of The UK and Ireland. There have been productions of the show in London's West End, Las Vegas, Chicago, Toronto, Melbourne and other Australian cities, Singapore, South Africa, The Netherlands, Japan, Dubai, and China. \"Jersey Boys\" won four 2006 Tony Awards including Best Musical, and the 2009 Laurence Olivier Award for Best New Musical.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Bob Gaudio, an original Four Seasons member, sought to make a musical from the discography of the band. He hired book writers Rick Elice and Marshall Brickman, and director Des McAnuff (at the suggestion of Michael David of Dodger Theatricals). Brickman suggested creating a show about the band's history, instead of repurposing their songs for an independent story the way ABBA did with \"Mamma Mia!\". Brickman was drawn to the project because: \"It's a classic American story. It's rags to riches, and back to rags.\"\n\nLittle was known to the public about the group's history prior to the premiere of the musical, because the magazines of the era didn't write much about them. In their research, Brickman and Elice were surprised to find that the members had prison records, which might have prevented their music from being played if it had been publicized when they were active. According to Gaudio, \"Back then, things were a little clean-cut, don't forget, so the idea of our story getting out was horrifying to us.\" Other bands of the time projected street-tough images, but The Four Seasons cleaned themselves up in order to be palatable for mainstream listeners.\n\nBrickman and Elice also used material from interviews with surviving Four Seasons members Gaudio, Frankie Valli and Tommy DeVito. While the Four Seasons as a group made headlines, as individuals they did not receive much press due to groups like the Beatles receiving the attention. Brickman noted that each member had his own perspective on what happened during their tenure as a group. Of the three, they approached DeVito last, who told them, \"Don't listen to those guys. I'll tell you what really happened.\" Elice said that getting DeVito's version was a \"eureka moment\" and the contradiction in their stories ended up being incorporated in the musical for a Rashomon effect. The writers were also contacted by family members of the late mob boss Gyp DeCarlo to ensure that he would be portrayed respectfully.\n\nAlthough Gaudio was part of the initial development team, he wasn't involved in the creative process during tryouts, and only met the cast once the show had premiered. Gaudio, Valli and DeVito had decided to step back from the show's creative process because they lacked objectivity, and they left it to Brickman, Elice and McAnuff to take the story to the stage. However, Gaudio and Valli still had final say on whether to end the show if they didn't like it.\n\n\"Jersey Boys\" premiered at the La Jolla Playhouse at University of California, San Diego, in an out-of-town tryout on October 5, 2004, and ran through January 16, 2005 Christian Hoff, David Norona, Daniel Reichard and J. Robert Spencer played The Four Seasons. At the end of the tryout, Norona, who originated the role of Frankie Valli, was replaced by John Lloyd Young, who originally had auditioned for the role of Tommy DeVito.\n\nThe musical began previews on Broadway on October 4, 2005, and officially opened on November 6, 2005, at the August Wilson Theatre. The cast starred John Lloyd Young as Frankie Valli, Christian Hoff as Tommy DeVito, Daniel Reichard as Bob Gaudio and J. Robert Spencer as Nick Massi. The musical is directed by Des McAnuff, the then-artistic director at La Jolla Playhouse, with choreography by Sergio Trujillo, and music technical design by composer and conductor Deborah Hurwitz. The Broadway production had 38 previews. It reached its 4093rd performance on September 22, 2015, making it the 12th longest-running show on Broadway. Notable cast replacements include Andy Karl and Richard H. Blake as Tommy DeVito, Sebastian Arcelus as Bob Gaudio and Ryan Molloy, who originated the role in the West End production, as Frankie Valli. The Broadway production closed on January 15, 2017 after 4,642 performances, with Mark Ballas as the final Frankie Valli.\n\nThe first national U.S. tour of the musical began on December 10, 2006, at the Curran Theatre in San Francisco and went on to play in 38 cities. \"Jersey Boys\" played at the Forrest Theatre in Philadelphia, where it broke the box office record eight times before moving on to a return engagement in Boston.\n\nIn May 2007, while the first national tour continued (with Steve Gouveia from the original Broadway cast as Nick Massi), a second company debuted at the Curran and ended as an open-ended run at Chicago's Bank of America Theatre, beginning on October 5, 2007. The Chicago cast appeared on stage in the 2007 Emmy Awards in a tribute to HBO's \"The Sopranos\". A special holiday return engagement played at the Curran Theatre from November 20 through December 30, 2007, starring Rick Faugno as Frankie Valli, Andrew Rannells as Bob Gaudio, Bryan McElroy as Tommy DeVito and Jeff Leibow as Nick Massi. The majority of this cast became the original Las Vegas cast, which debuted at The Palazzo Hotel on Sunday, May 3, 2008, in the newly built Jersey Boys Theatre. The show temporarily closed on January 1, 2012, and reopened on March 6, 2012, at Paris Las Vegas. On June 7, 2016, it was announced that \"Jersey Boys\" would be ending its Las Vegas show on September 18, 2016.\n\nThe musical made its West End debut at London's Prince Edward Theatre in February 2008. The creative team were the same as for the Broadway production. Principal cast were Ryan Molloy as Frankie Valli, Stephen Ashfield as Bob Gaudio, Glenn Carter as Tommy DeVito, Philip Bulcock as Nick Massi, Stuart Milligan as DeCarlo and Tom Lorcan as Donnie/Knuckles. The production won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best New Musical. Molloy performed the lead role for six years, making him the longest-running star in a West End musical. The production moved to the Piccadilly Theatre on March 15, 2014, the same day that John Lloyd Young assumed the role of Frankie Valli. On September 28, 2016, it was announced that the West End production will close after nine years on March 26, 2017.\n\nThe Australian production opened at the Princess Theatre in Melbourne on July 4, 2009. Principal cast members were Bobby Fox as Frankie Valli, Stephen Mahy as Bob Gaudio, Scott Johnson as Tommy DeVito and Glaston Toft as Nick Massi. The Melbourne production closed on July 25, 2010 and the Sydney production opened in September 2010. The Sydney production closed on December 18, 2011. Jersey Boys then opened in Auckland in April 2012 with the new touring cast. Jeff Madden from Canada starred as Frankie Valli, Declan Egan as Bob, Ant Harkin as Tommy, Glaston Toft continuing on as Nick. The Jersey girls were: Francine and others Kat Hoyos, Lorraine and others Michelle Smitheram and Mary Delgado and others Lisa Adam. running through June 17, 2012. Following from New Zealand, the same cast then returned to Australia starting a national tour - Brisbane, return season of Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. The show ran until June 30, 2013. \n\nDue to the success of the national tour's long stop at Toronto Centre for the Arts in Toronto, Ontario, in autumn 2008, a Toronto production opened on December 12, 2008 with a new, mostly Canadian cast that included Jeremy Kushnier and Jenny Lee Stern from the first national tour. This production closed on August 22, 2010, on the show's second anniversary.\n\nAn international tour with an all-South African cast ran in Singapore at the Marina Bay Sands resort from November 23, 2012, to January 27, 2013. The production then performed in Johannesburg, South Africa, at the Teatro at Montecasino on April 3, 2013, and at Artscape Cape Town on June 19, 2013. This company also performed at the Zorlu Center PSM, the Performing Arts Center in Istanbul, Turkey from November 13–24, 2013 and in South Korea from January 17 to March 23, 2014. The same production performed an edited family-friendly version without profanity at Istana Budaya, Malaysia from April 15 to 27, 2014. This cast includes Grant Almiral as Frankie Valli, Daniel Buys as Tommy DeVito, Kenneth Meyer as Bob Gaudio and Emmanuel Castis as Nick Massi.\n\nA Dutch production, produced by Stage Entertainment, opened at the Beatrix Theatre in Utrecht on September 22, 2013. This production features the songs performed in English and the dialogue performed in Dutch, making it the first time the show has been performed in a language other than English. The cast includes Tim Driesen as Frankie Valli, René van Kooten as Tommy DeVito, Dieter Spileers as Bob Gaudio and Robbert van den Bergh as Nick Massi.\n\nA national UK tour was launched in autumn 2014, opening at Palace Theatre, Manchester, where it ran from September 4 to October 4. This production has the same creative team as the Broadway and West End productions. The cast includes Tim Driesen reprising his role from the Dutch production as Frankie Valli, with Stephen Webb as Tommy DeVito, Sam Ferriday as Bob Gaudio and Lewis Griffiths as Nick Massi. A second national tour began on December 2017 at the New Alexandra Theatre Birmingham.\n\nIn late 2014, a tour of the United States performed in a number of U.S. cities, including Den ver in December.\n\nA Japanese production, directed by Shuntaro Fujita, opened at the Theatre Crea in Tokyo on July 1, 2016. The cast includes Akinori Nakagawa as Frankie Valli.\n\nA tour in 19 cities of the United States is scheduled from March 2016 through March 2017.\n\nAn international tour of Jersey Boys opened at the \"Dubai Opera\" in October 2017. \nThis production then embarked on a tour of China from November 2017 - January 2018. For both legs of this tour, The Four Seasons were played by Luke Street/Jonathan Vickers (alternating the role of Frankie Valli), Andrew Bryant (Tommy Devito), Matt Blaker (Bob Gaudio), and Nick Martland (Nick Massi). \n\nOnly months after closing on Broadway, it was announced that the musical will reopen Off-Broadway, following the example of shows such as \"Avenue Q\". It opened November 22, 2017, at New World Stages.\n\n\"Ces soirées-là\", a modern pop-rap song that was released in 2000, is performed. Tommy DeVito arrives, introduces himself and explains how the song is a cover of The Four Seasons' \"December, 1963 (Oh, What a Night)\". He offers to tell the story of the band, explaining how he started out with the group \"The Variety Trio\" with his brother Nick DeVito and friend Nick Massi, eventually discovering teenager Frankie Castelluccio and taking him under his wing, teaching him everything he knows (\"The Early Years: A Scrapbook\"). During these early years Nick Massi helped train Frankie to sing, Tommy went in and out of prison, Frankie changed his last name to Valli, Tommy and Frankie developed a good relationship with mob boss Gyp DeCarlo, and Frankie fell in love with and married Mary Delgado. Musically, the band was still struggling and kept changing their name and sound but without any dramatic success. One day friend and fellow Jersey boy Joe Pesci comes up to Tommy and says that he knows a singer-songwriter who'd make the perfect fourth for their band: Bob Gaudio.\n\nBob Gaudio takes over the narration, telling the audience that no matter what Tommy says, he wasn't plucked from obscurity by him, since he already had a hit single with \"Short Shorts\". Bob goes with Joe Pesci to see the band perform, and is immediately impressed by Frankie's voice. Bob performs a song he'd just written: \"Cry for Me\" on piano, which Frankie, Nick Massi and then Tommy joining in with vocals, bass and guitar respectively. They negotiate an agreement, though Tommy is at first skeptical that Bobby (then still a teenager) will be good for the band. The band eventually gets a contract with producer Bob Crewe but only to sing back-up (\"Backup Sessions\"). Crewe insists that the band has an \"identity crisis\" and needs to make a firm decision on a name and a sound. The band name themselves after The Four Seasons bowling alley, and Bobby writes them three songs that finally propel them to stardom: \"Sherry\", \"Big Girls Don't Cry\" and \"Walk Like a Man\". In the wake of their success, Bob also chalks up a personal first by losing his virginity (\"December, 1963 (Oh, What a Night)\"). The band's success means that they tour a lot more, along the way discovering the girl band The Angels (\"My Boyfriend's Back\"). Unfortunately, the constant touring strains Frankie's marriage to Mary, and they eventually divorce (\"My Eyes Adored You\"). The band continues to enjoy chart successes (\"Dawn (Go Away)\") until after a concert the band is approached by a loan shark out to claim money owed by Tommy (\"Walk Like a Man (reprise)\").\n\nNick Massi, taking over as Narrator, explains that Bob was so focused on the band's musical success and future that he couldn't see that the band had been in trouble for some time. Tommy's been racking up debts, and a forgotten bill during a previous tour lands the band in jail over the weekend, which strains things between Tommy and Bob (\"Big Man in Town\"). Nick observes that Tommy became jealous of Frankie's success and closeness with Bobby, and attempted to seduce Frankie's new girlfriend Lorraine. The two never confronted each other about it, but the old friendship was not what it used to be. When the loan shark approaches the band for the $150,000 owed by Tommy, Frankie goes to Gyp DeCarlo for help despite Tommy's insistence that he doesn't need it (\"Beggin'\"). The band, Gyp, and the loan shark come to agreement: Tommy is to be \"sequestered\" in Las Vegas where the mob can keep an eye on him, and the band will willingly cover the debt, along with an additional half a million in unpaid taxes that Tommy kept hidden from the group. At this time, Nick declares that he's tired of everything and wants out, despite Frankie and Bob trying to convince him to stay (\"Stay/Let's Hang On!\").\n\nFrankie takes over narration, explaining that though he owes Tommy a great deal, he's aware that their relationship wasn't ideal, and he never understood why Nick decided to leave. Frankie and Bob find replacements to keep the band a quartet (\"Opus 17 (Don't You Worry 'Bout Me)\") until Bobby announces that he's never been comfortable in the spotlight and that Frankie should be a single, i.e. Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. In his personal life, Frankie's relationship with his daughter Francine is strained and he breaks up with girlfriend Lorraine (\"Bye, Bye, Baby (Baby, Goodbye)\"). Frankie continues to have success thanks to Bobby's songs, and hits jackpot with \"C'mon Marianne\" and the almost-never-released \"Can't Take My Eyes Off You\" which Bobby fights to get airplay for. Along with the success of \"Working My Way Back to You\", Frankie and Bobby finally finish paying off Tommy's debts, and Frankie's life is good until his daughter Francine dies from a drug overdose (\"Fallen Angel\")\n\nBob Crewe describes The Four Seasons' 1990 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, which reunited the original four members on stage one last time (\"Rag Doll\"). Each member takes a moment to address the audience in turn, explaining his pride at having been with the band and briefly notes what he did afterwards (\"Who Loves You\").\n\n\nThe score for \"Jersey Boys\" requires a small orchestra with nine musicians: three keyboards, guitar, bass, drums, two woodwind players, and trumpet. The first woodwind player doubles on alto and tenor saxophone, clarinet, flute, and oboe. The second woodwind part doubles on tenor and baritone sax, clarinet, and bass clarinet. The trumpet also doubles on flugelhorn.\n\nBen Brantley of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"THE CROWD GOES WILD. I'm talking about the real, mostly middle-aged crowd at the August Wilson Theater, who seem to have forgotten what year it is or how old they are or, most important, that John Lloyd Young is not Frankie Valli. And everything that has led up to that curtain call feels, for just a second, as real and vivid as the sting of your hands clapping together.\"\n\nCharles Spencer from \"The Daily Telegraph\" wrote: \"Overpaid, over-sexed and over here, it will, I suspect be some time before London says Bye Bye Baby (Baby Goodbye) to the PHENOMENAL \"Jersey Boys\".\" Benedict Nightingale from \"The Times\" said, \"Oh What a Night. There were times when I felt that the performers were making even the Beatles sound somewhat lacking in musical texture.\" Quentin Letts from \"The Daily Mail\" said, \"I must say I thoroughly enjoyed it. This is a big thumper of a show with fantastic songs.\"\n\nAn original cast recording was made by Rhino Entertainment, \"\" (Rhino R2 73271), released in November 2005, which won the 2007 Grammy Award for Best Musical Show Album. In February 2008, the album was certified Gold, having shipped more than 500,000 copies in the US. In October 2009, the cast album was certified Platinum, selling over 1,000,000 copies in the United States.\n\nA Movie adaptation of the musical, directed by Clint Eastwood was released in 2014.\n\nThe West End cast of \"Jersey Boys\" appeared as a guest act for the Royal Variety Performance 2008, which was staged at the London Palladium on December 11 in the presence of senior members of the Royal family. The Royal Variety Performance is a gala event held annually at a major British theatre, to raise money for the Entertainment Artistes' Benevolent Fund. In 2010, The West End cast of \"Jersey Boys\" performed a show, with the profits going to Children In Need. The show ended with Pudsey Bear joining in to sing a medley, and raised £60,150 for the charity. In 2009 the cast also appeared as a guest act for Children In Need.\n\n\"Jersey Boys\" Chicago has been honored two years in a row at the Broadway Cares event for being the top fundraiser in the Tour category. In 2008, \"Jersey Boys\" Chicago raised $220,000 for BC/EFA.\n\nFor every ticket sold for every Broadway performance in the month of October 2010, $1 was donated to the \"VH1 Save the Music Foundation\". \"Jersey Boys\" aimed to raise funds to restore one full music education program in a New York City school. The show eventually raised $43,521, enough to restore the instrumental music education program at PS 85 in the Bronx. Plans were made to donate additional funds raised to a second \"VH1 Save The Music Foundation\" grant recipient school.\n\nFour actors of the original Broadway production, Christian Hoff, Michael Longoria, Daniel Reichard and J. Robert Spencer, launched a concert tour titled \"The Boys in Concert\" in 2010. Frankie Valli, Bob Gaudio, Marshall Brickman and Rick Elice sued the production, claiming that it \"steals songs, stage elements and copyrighted logo\" that imply that it is an authorized spin-off of \"Jersey Boys\". The production was rebranded as \"The 4 Hitmen\", and Hoff, Longoria, Reichard and Spencer counter-sued, claiming that the accusations were false, and alleging the use of \"bully tactics\" in an \"effort to injure the livelihood and the reputations\" of the actors. On September 23, 2010, Valli and company dropped the original suit, on the condition that the name of the performance is changed to distance itself from \"Jersey Boys\". As of February 2013, this production is still active, and is named \"The Midtown Men\".\n\nThe HBO series \"The Sopranos\" made several nods to \"Jersey Boys\". For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "37651360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37651360", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2013", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2013\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2013 was the 11th annual Junior Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Kiev, Ukraine on 30 November 2013. The venue for the contest was announced on 10 April 2013, as the Palace \"Ukraine\". Ukrainian broadcaster National Television Company of Ukraine (NTU) was the host broadcaster for the event. It was the second time the contest was held in Kiev, the first being the . It was also the second time in the history of the Junior Eurovision Song Contest that the event took place in last year's winning country, as well as the first time that the event was held in the same city twice. A total of twelve countries participated, with and making a return, and , and choosing to withdraw. made their debut in the contest. was originally the thirteenth country to take part but pulled out the last minute.\n\nOn the evening of the contest Ruslana withdrew from appearing in the contest because of sickness. Gaia Cauchi representing won the contest with the song \"The Start\". This was Malta's first Junior Eurovision victory as well as their first victory in any Eurovision Contest. It also marked the first time in the history of the contest that a winning entry was sung entirely in English. This was also the first contest to introduce a new awards system: The winning country along with the second and third place countries each received a trophy. Sofia Tarasova, representing the host nation , took second place and Ilya Volkov singing for took the third-place trophy.\n\nOn 17 April 2013, the Ukrainian national broadcaster NTU and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) announced that the venue for the 2013 contest would take place in the Palace \"Ukraine\", in Kiev. The venue which is also known as the National Palace of Arts \"Ukraine\", which is a state company administered by the State Directory of Affairs, is one of the main venues for official events along with Palace of Sports in Kiev, Ukraine, which hosted the 2009 contest.\n\nIt was opened in 1970 as the biggest centre of culture and arts. The building was designed by a group of architects P. Zhylytskyi, I. Vayner, under the directorship of the project's author the distinguished architect of Ukrainian SSR Yevhenia Marychenko. All of the architects were awarded Shevchenko National Prize (1971) for its design and construction. The building is trapezoidal, twenty eight meters tall and consists of over 300 rooms.\n\nThe executive supervisor of the Junior Eurovision steering group, Vladislav Yakovlev, announced on 17 July 2013 that there would be some changes being introduced to the contest from 2013 onwards. The contest would no longer focus on just the winning entry, but would also award prizes to the top three entries in acknowledgement of the talents of the young performers.\n\nIt was also announced that the winner of Junior Eurovision 2013 would be at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014, however the role that they would play had not been revealed at that time.\n\nOn 7 October 2013, it was announced that the executive supervisor managed to maintain the participation of thirteen countries for the contest in Kiev, Ukraine. The name of the thirteenth country was expected to be announced by the European Broadcasting Union on 29 October 2013. It was later confirmed on 1 November 2013 that Cyprus were going to be the thirteenth country but withdrew at the last minute. The running order draw took place on 25 November 2013 during the contest's opening party.\n\nDesigner Elias Ledakis, who was responsible for the stage design of the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 in Athens, Greece, was announced on 7 October 2013 as also being the designer for the 2013 Junior Eurovision stage.\n\nThe official Junior Eurovision Twitter account revealed on 9 October that the contest was planned to be broadcast online and by national broadcasters, however the details were still being worked on. On 21 November 2013, it was revealed that 98.8 Castle FM in Scotland would be the only radio station broadcasting the ceremony in the . Radio Ukraine International would also be broadcasting the contest live.\n\nAwards were given to the top three countries, after all the votes were cast; these where Malta, Ukraine and Belarus.\n\n\nThe order in which each country announced their votes was in the order of performance. The running order draw took place on 25 November 2013 during the contest's opening party. The spokespersons from all of the participating countries are shown below alongside their respective country.\n\nMost countries sent commentators to Kiev or commentated from their own country, to add insight to the participants and, if necessary, provide voting information. For the first time, JuniorEurovision.tv featured commentary online during the broadcast with commentary from the website's editor Luke Fisher and radio broadcaster Ewan Spence.\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest 2013: Kyiv a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, was released by Universal Music Group on 22 November 2013. The album features all the songs from the 2013 contest, along with karaoke versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "21669080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21669080", "title": "KAIROS Prize", "text": "KAIROS Prize\n\nThe KAIROS Prize has been awarded to European artists and scholars from the fields of visual and performing arts, music, architecture, design, film, photography, literature and journalism since 2007 by the Alfred Toepfer Foundation in Hamburg. It is endowed with a sum of 75,000 Euro.\n\nSource: Alfred Toepfer Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "57326376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57326376", "title": "Kao nekad pred Božić", "text": "Kao nekad pred Božić\n\nKao nekad pred Božić (English: As it used to be before Christmas) is an annual one-day christmas music festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was established in 1999 as a joint venture by Croatian and Catholic cultural and religious organizations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The founders include HKD Napredak, the Franciscan Province of Bosna Srebrena and others. The festival is held in the Dom Mladih. It hosts numerous renowned church choirs, folklore groups and contemporary pop musicians. Guests and performers have included Goran Karan, Oliver Dragojević, Dražen Žerić, Klapa s Mora, Rajko Dujmić and others. \n\nApart from hosting a large christmas music concert, the festival also hosts numerous folklore and cultural groups that present traditional folk dances and kolos from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the diaspora. \n"}
{"id": "49249601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49249601", "title": "Lagos Seafood Festival", "text": "Lagos Seafood Festival\n\nThe Lagos Seafood Festival is an annual event in Lagos. The first edition of the festival held on 10 November 2012 at the Eko Hotel and Suites.\nThe festival is aimed at promoting seafood cuisine culture, local fish production and stimulating investment opportunities in relation to aquaculture and fisheries.\n"}
{"id": "47295622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47295622", "title": "List of Iwata Asks interviews", "text": "List of Iwata Asks interviews\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43545572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43545572", "title": "List of wars and battles involving ISIL", "text": "List of wars and battles involving ISIL\n\nThe following is a list of conflicts involving the militant group commonly known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/ISIS), throughout its various incarnations. The group currently controls portions of territory in Iraq and Syria and has taken part in many battles and wars.\n\nSince late 2013, the wars in Syria have merged into a single war that includes a spillover into Lebanon and Iraq.\n\nIslamic State of Iraq\nIslamic State of Iraq and the Levant\n"}
{"id": "34351115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34351115", "title": "Lithuanian independence referendum, 1991", "text": "Lithuanian independence referendum, 1991\n\nAn independence referendum was held in the Lithuania on 9 February 1991. It was approved by 93.2% of voters. The number of voters voting \"yes\" was 76.5% of all registered voters, far exceeding the threshold of 50%. Independence had been declared on 11 March 1990, and was achieved in August 1991.\n\nThe independence of the Republic of Lithuania was recognized by the United States on 2 September 1991. On 6 September 1991, the Soviet Union itself did the same.\n\n"}
{"id": "4827190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4827190", "title": "Martín Garatuza", "text": "Martín Garatuza\n\nMartín Garatuza (born 1601, Puebla, Mexico) was a famous trickster whose frauds and escapes became legendary in colonial New Spain and whose name has passed into Spanish language, folklore and literature.\n\nGaratuza, whose real name was Martín de Villavicencio Salazar, came to the attention of the authorities in Puebla in 1640 for posing as a priest without having been ordained. He played this role with great pomp, offering his hand to be kissed, hearing confessions, and saying mass. In this way he travelled through much of New Spain, gaining his living fraudulently.\n\nIn 1642 he was arrested in Nejapa, Oaxaca by the Inquisition, accused of saying mass without being ordained. He managed to escape, but a few months later he turned himself in to the Inquisition in Mexico City. He soon talked his way out of detention, being granted a leave of 40 days to return to Puebla for health reasons. Naturally, he used this opportunity to escape again and continue his escapades.\n\nHe was apprehended a third time and condemned to appear in an auto de fe \"as a penitent, with a green candle in his hands, a rope about his neck, a white hood on his head\". He was to receive 200 lashes and was sentenced to the galleys of Terrenate for five years without pay. The auto de fe was held March 30, 1648 in Mexico City. Thereafter he left New Spain to complete his sentence and was never heard from again.\n\nThe expression \"¿En qué pararán estas misas, Garatuza?\" (What will end these masses, Garatuza?) has passed into the language. It refers to a difficult position a person finds himself in through the consequences of his own actions. The word \"gartusa\" (note the variant spelling) has several meanings as a noun. There is a card game of that name. The word can also mean the use of cajolery and flattery to gain one's ends, and it is the name of a feint in fencing.\n\nVicente Riva Palacio (1832–96) wrote the novel \"Martín Gartuza\". There is also a Mexican movie based on this novel (1935). In 1986 a Mexican telenovela of the same name was broadcast.\n\nHe is remembered in Mexico as a humorous character, one who lived by his wits but did not use violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "56887765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56887765", "title": "Mo Pop Festival", "text": "Mo Pop Festival\n\nThe Mo Pop Festival is a music festival in Detroit. The festival features both emerging as well as established musicians, and its ambiance has been described as \"boutique and niche\". It showcases indie-rock, pop, and hip-hop music along with local Detroit cuisine and beverages, in addition to endeavoring to bring visitors to the city's riverfront. Though smaller in size, Mo Pop has been compared to other musical festivals such as Bonnaroo, Coachella, Lollapalooza, and Pitchfork. It has also drawn comparisons to other festivals held in the city, namely the Detroit Jazz Festival and Movement Electronic Music Festival.\n\nThe inaugural 2013 Mo Pop Festival was held on a single day at the Freedom Hill Amphitheatre in suburban Sterling Heights. It featured performances by Andrew Bird, Capital Cities, Jamaican Queens, JR JR, Manchester Orchestra, The Mowgli's, Old Crow Medicine Show, Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, Walk off the Earth, and Wild Belle. The 2014 festival, also held at Freedom Hill, staggered set times to allow attendees to watch all musical acts, and it featured performances by City and Colour, Cold War Kids, Flint Eastwood, J Roddy Walston and the Business, Lord Huron, Tokyo Police Club, and Young the Giant. Both the 2013 and 2014 festivals were attended by approximately 7,500 people. After the 2014 festival, Mo Pop looked to move to Detroit due to both its location and to enable further growth, according to festival co-producer Jason Rogalewski.\n\nThe 2015 Mo Pop Festival was the first to be held at West Riverfront Park in Detroit, just west of Downtown, and also the first two-day festival. Held on July 25–26, it was headlined by Modest Mouse and Passion Pit, and also featured performances by Atlas Genius, James Bay, Chromeo, Brandon Flowers, Jessica Hernandez & the Deltas, Iron & Wine, King Tuff, and Viet Cong. West Riverfront Park is a park on the Detroit River with views of the downtown skyline and the Ambassador Bridge, and it was created in 2014 by Detroit's Riverfront Conservancy on the site of a former \"Detroit Free Press\" printing facility. Described as \"free-spirited\" and \"whimsically themed\", Mo Pop's 2015 iteration once again featured two stages aligned so that attendees could watch both without physically moving, and alternated time slots between so they would not have to choose between acts performing simultaneously. In addition to music, the 2015 festival also included artisans and craft makers, visual artists, craft beer, food trucks, and even a Mo Tech village \"showcasing work from local start-ups and inventors\". During the festival, heavy rainfall overwhelmed the park's drainage capabilities and formed a standing body of water nicknamed \"Lake Mo Pop\". Mo Pop's 2015 total two-day attendance was estimated to be over 15,000.\n\nThe 2016 Mo Pop Festival, held on July 24–25 at West Riverfront Park for the second year, was headlined by Børns, G-Eazy, Haim, The Head and the Heart, and M83. It also featured performances by Coast Modern, Mac DeMarco, Glass Animals, Matt and Kim, Father John Misty, and Panama Wedding. It drew an attendance of over 20,000 people over its two days. New for 2016 was a tented arcade and games area, and a \"craft village\" vendor area.\n\nThe 2017 Mo Pop Festival, held on July 29–30 at West Riverfront Park, was headlined by Alt-J, Foster the People, Run the Jewels, and Solange. Other acts included Vance Joy, Middle Kids, Grace Mitchell, Phantogram, PUP, PVRIS, Tyler, the Creator, and Wavves. Both days of the festival started with back-to-back Michigan artists, including Stef Chura and Heaters. In total, the 2017 iteration of Mo Pop featured over nine hours of music with musicians on two different stages. It also included a dozen local food trucks and the Shipyard, a food and beverage court that was presented by Corktown's cocktail bar Sugar House and featured barbecue from Slows Bar BQ, hot dogs and tacos from Ferndale's Imperial restaurant, craft beers from Birmingham's Griffin Claw Brewing Company, and adult ciders from Blake's Hard Cider Company of Armada.\n\nThe 2018 Mo Pop Festival, scheduled for July 28–29, will be headlined by Bon Iver, The National, Portugal. The Man, and St. Vincent. It will be the fourth straight festival at West Riverfront Park. Also performing will be Brockhampton, Highly Suspect, Vince Staples, and the Detroit-based band Joe Hertler & The Rainbow Seekers.\n\n"}
{"id": "21634642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21634642", "title": "Novruz in Azerbaijan", "text": "Novruz in Azerbaijan\n\nNovruz in Azerbaijan () is a traditional holiday, which celebrates the New Year, and the coming of Spring. When Azerbaijan was part of the Soviet Union, celebration of Novruz was generally unofficial, and at times even prohibited. Currently in Azerbaijan, Novruz is treated as an official public holiday. In accordance with Article 105 of the Labour Code of Azerbaijan passed in 2006, workers receive five days off for Novruz. After neighbouring Iran, Azerbaijan hosts the longest observance and amount of public days related to Novruz, with thus a total (including weekend) of 7 days.\n\nUsually preparation for Novruz begins a \nmonth prior to the festival. Each of forthcoming 4 weeks is devoted to one of the four elements and called accordingly in Azerbaijan. Each Tuesday people celebrate the day of one of the four elements - water, fire, earth and wind. People do house cleaning, plant trees, make new dresses, paint eggs, make national pastries such as shekerbura, pakhlava, shorgoghal and a great variety of national cuisine. Wheat is fried with kishmish (raisins) and nuts (govurga). As a tribute to pre-Islamic Zoroastrian beliefs, every Tuesday during four weeks before the holiday children jump over small bonfires and candles are lit. On the holiday eve the graves of relatives are visited and tended.\n\nDifferent ancient traditional games and shows such as “Kos-kosa” (symbolizes the coming of spring), “Khidir Ilyas” (the symbol of fertility and blossom), fortune telling, etc. are held at musical gatherings take place at Novruz holiday. Folk singers sing songs, the wrestlers test their strength. \n\nNovruz is a family holiday. In the evening before the holiday the whole family gathers around the holiday table laid with various dishes to make the New Year rich. The holiday goes on for several days and ends with festive public dancing and other entertainment of folk bands, contests of national sports. In rural areas crop holidays are marked.\n\nThe decoration of the festive table is khoncha, a big silver or copper tray with Samani, green shoots from wheat seeds placed in the centre and candles and dyed eggs by the number of family members around it. The table should be set, at least, with seven dishes.\n"}
{"id": "29790873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29790873", "title": "Old Settler's Music Festival", "text": "Old Settler's Music Festival\n\nOld Settler's Music Festival is an annual music festival held since 1988. The festival dates for 2019 are April 11th to the 14th in Tilmon Texas, just southeast of Lockhart, Texas. As one of Central Texas' signature music events, the festival features acoustic jazz and blues, bluegrass, local favorites, and award-winning artists from around the world. Camping, arts and crafts, food and drink are available.\n\nThe festival is represented at numerous music events including the International Folk Alliance Conference, the Americana Music Festival & Conference, South By South West, the International Bluegrass Music Festival's World of Bluegrass, and the International Music Festival Conference.\n\nThe Old Settler's Bluegrass Festival was first held in Old Settler's Park in Round Rock, Texas. After the park flooded during a festival weekend, the organizers moved the festival first to Stone Mountain Events Center in Dripping Springs, Texas, and later to the Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch in Driftwood, Texas. In 2018, the festival moved to it's forever home on 145 acres of rolling meadows and tree covered campgrounds. The new location is just a cd's worth of listening from Austin. The name of the festival was modified to Old Settler's Music Festival in 2000.\n\nOld Settler’s already has been widely recognized for its contribution to Central Texas culture; with over 30 bands performing for 16,000 roots-music fans each year, it’s considered among the major events that help the region sustain its status as the “live music capital of the world.” And now, as it plants roots of its own on its new 45-acre property, Old Settler’s cements its status as the sole roots music and camping festival in the Central Texas area. \n\nThe Grateful Ball, Donna the Buffalo, The Travelin McCourys, WeBanjo 3, The Deer, Greensky Bluegrass, Calexico, Balsam Range, The Jeff Austin Band, Front Country, I’m With Her, Railroad Earth,Bob Schneider, JD McPherson, The California Honeydrops, Will Hoge, Colter Wall, Darlingside, Steve Poltz, Billy Strings, \nThe War & Treaty, The Peterson Brothers, Jon Stickley Trio, Ray Wylie Hubbard, Galeano, The Cleverlys \n\n30 April 20-23, 2017 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nAmerican Dreamer, Sam Bush, The California Honeydrops, Griffin Carter, Elephant Revival, Gaelic Storm, Shakey Graves, The Honeycutters, Gregory Alan Isakov, Sarah Jarosz, Nikki Lane, The Last Bandoleros, Leftover Salmon, The Lil’ Smokies, The Lone Bellow, Los Lobos, The Del McCoury Band, Mandolin Orange, Old 97’s, Anders Osborne, Peter Rowan’s Bluegrass Jam, The Peterson Brothers, Reckless Kelly, River Whyless, Peter Rowan & Friends, Session Americana, Shinyribs, Billy Strings, The Travelin’ McCourys, Vasen, Wood & Wire\n\n29 April 14–17, 2016 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nDawes, Del McCoury Band, Rodney Crowell, The Wood Brothers, Jerry Douglas presents The Earls Of Leicester, Hayes Carll, Bob Schneider, Sarah Jarosz, Shinyribs, The Milk Carton Kids, The Jayhawks, Deer Tick, David Ramirez, Jay Farrar Trio performs songs from Son Volts \"Trace\", The Suffers, The Jeff Austin Band, The Black Lillies, The Band of Heathens, Carolyn Wonderland, HONEYHONEY, Della Mae, Green River Ordinance, MilkDrive, Lonesome River Band, The HillBenders present The Who's TOMMY: A Bluegrass Opry, The Jitterbug Vipers, The Brothers Comatose, The Deer, Sierra Hull, The Dustbowl Revival, The Accidentals\n\n28 April 16–19, 2015 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nJeff Austin Band, The Black Lillies, Sam Bush, Dailey & Vincent, Darlingside, The Defibulators, Hot Rize, Ray Wylie Hubbard, The Infamous Stringdusters, The Jitterbug Vipers, JohnnySwim, Robert Earl Keen, Bill Kirchen, Pokey LaFarge, Lost Bayou Ramblers, The Mavericks, McCrary Sisters, JD McPherson, MilkDrive, Israel Nash, Alexander Nobles, Chuck Prophet, Rising Appalachia, Bruce Robison & Kelly Willis, Roxy Roca, Lauren Shera, Jake Shimabukuro, Shinyribs, Langhorne Slim, Nora Jane Struthers and the Party Line, Wood & Wire\n\n27 April 10–13, 2014 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nBig Head Todd & the Monsters, The Black Lillies, Jeff Bridges & the Abiders, The Deadly Gentlemen, The Del McCoury Band, The Devil Makes Three, Donna The Buffalo, Elephant Revival, Front Country, John Fullbright, Gaelic Storm, The Gibson Brothers, Humming House, Sarah Jarosz, Katy Kirby, Lake Street Dive, Lily & Madeleine, Della Mae, Parker Millsap, North Mississippi Allstars, Tim O'Brien & Darrell Scott, Robert Randolph & the Family Band, Red Wine, Peter Rowan's Twang 'an Groove, Saint Paul & The Broken Bones, Bob Schneider, Shinyribs, Shovels & Rope, Dr. Ralph Stanley & His Clinch Mountain Boys, Wood & Wire\n\n26 April 18–21, 2013 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nCarolina Chocolate Drops; The Del McCoury Band; Dirtfoot; Jerry Douglas; Casey Driessen Singularity; The Dunwells; The Fred Eaglesmith Traveling Steam Show; Justin Townes Earle; Elephant Revival; Michael Franti; The Giving Tree Band; The Gourds; Green Mountain Grass; Terri Hendrix; The James Hunter Six; Lake Street Dive; Leftover Salmon; Lone Star Swing; Della Mae; MilkDrive; Russell Moore & IIIrd Tyme Out; Steve Poltz; The Reivers; Rose's Pawn Shop; Peter Rowan's Twang & Groove; Bob Schneider; Martin Sexton; Son Volt; Wood & Wire; Kimberly Zielnicki featuring the Lost & Nameless O\n\n25 April 19–22, 2012 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nSam Baker, Audie Blaylock & Redline, The Blue Hit, The Bottle Rockets, Dale Ann Bradley, Marshall Crenshaw, Flounders without Eyes, Gaelic Storm, Greensky Bluegrass, JJ Grey & Mofro, David Grier, Ha Ha Tonka, Iron & Wine, Jason Isbell & the 400 Unit, Sarah Jarosz, Eilen Jewell, Doyle Lawson & Quicksilver, Amos Lee, Lissie, Youth Competition Winner Grace London, James McMurtry, New Country Rehab, Todd Phillips, Pine Leaf Boys, Pyschograss (Joe Walsh, Darol Anger), Railroad Earth, Slim Richey’s Jitterbug Vipers, Bob Schneider, SHEL, Frank Solivan & Dirty Kitchen, Steep Canyon Rangers, Tony Trischka, Wheeler Brothers\n\n24 April 14–17, 2011 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nThe Avett Brothers, Audie Blaylock & Redline, Band of Heathens, beatlegras, The Bridge, Elliott Brood, Sam Bush, Suzanna Choffel, Emmitt-Nershi Band, Foster & Lloyd, David Francey, Gaelic Storm, Jimmy Dale Gilmore with the Wronglers, The Gourds, Greensky Bluegrass, Green Mountain Grass, Terri Hendrix, The Hillbenders, Warren Hood & the Goods, Ruby Jane, Sonny Landreth, Jim Lauderdale, MilkDrive, Youth Competition Winners Sarah Mueller and Minnie, Tim O’Brien, Rose’s Pawn Shop, Jake Shimabukuro, Langhorne Slim, Sahara Smith, The Richard Thompson Electric Trio, Trampled by Turtles, The WayneBillies\n\n23 April 15–18, 2010 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\n7 Walkers with Bill Kreutzmann, Band of Heathens, Bearfoot, Blue Highway, Brave Combo, Alison Brown Quartet, Elizabeth Cook, Dirtfoot, Fred Eaglesmith, Joe Ely, Alejandro Escovedo, Flounders Without Eyes, Ruthie Foster, John Fullbright, The Giving Tree Band, The Gourds, Green Mountain Grass, Patty Griffin, The Infamous Stringdusters, Ruby Jane, Jitterbug Vipers, Jimmy LaFave, Doyle Lawson & Quicksilver, The Lee Boys, Buddy Miller, New Monsoon, The Rockin’ Gospel Project, Peter Rowan Bluegrass Band, Mindy Smith, Solas, Special Consensus, The Travelin’ McCourys, The Trishas, The Wronglers\n\n22 April 16–19, 2009 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nDave Alvin & The Guilty Women, Beausoleil Avec Micheal Doucet, The Belleville Outfit, Bettysoo, Blackie & The Rodeo Kings, Blue Highway, Bodeans, Marc Broussard, Hayes Carll, Fred Eaglesmith, The Fireants, Flounders Without Eyes, Flyin' $ Bunkhouse Band, Julie Fowlis, The Gibson Brothers, The Gourds, Great American Taxi (with Vince Herman), Green Mountain Grass, The Greencards, Ray Wilie Hubbard, Sarah Jarosz, Jitterbug Vipers, Robert Earl Keen, The Lee Boys, Lone Star Swing, The Lovell Sisters, Ben Mallott, Dan Navarro, New Monsoon, Onion Creek Crawdaddies, Jenny Reynolds, The Rockin' Gospel Project, Spring Creek, Stonehoney, Travelin' McCoury's\n\n21 April 17–20, 2008 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nBearfoot, Beatlegras, Bellville Outfit, Blackie & The Rodeo Kings, Brave Combo, Pieta Brown, Cadillac Sky, JD Crowe & The New South, Emily Elbert, The Flyin' $ Bunkhouse Band, Flounders Without Eyes, Eliza Gilkyson, Green Mountain Grass, David Grisman Bluegrass Experience, Terri Hendrix, The Infamous Stringdusters, Sarah Jarosz, Jitterbug Vipers, The Jones Family Singers, Bettye Lavette, Delbert McClinton, Gharle Musslewhite, New Monsoon, Slim Richey's Monster Jazzgrass, The Rockin' Gospel Project, Peter Rowan & Friends, Martin Sexton, Todd Snider, Ralph Stanley & The Clich Mountain Boys, Marty Stuart & His Fabulous Superlatives, The Waybacks\n\n20 April 19–22, 2007 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nKaren Abrahams, Big Sandy & Los Straitjackets, Sarah Borges & the Broken Singles, Sam Bush, Classical Grass, Slaid Cleaves, John Cowan Band, Iris Dement, Groupo Fantasma, Flounders Without Eyes, Ruthie Foster, Robbie Fulks and Danny Barnes, Mary Gauthier, The Gospel Project, Green Mountain Grass, Honkeytonk Homeslice (feat. Bill Nershi), Sarah Jarosz, Jim Lauderdale, Samantha Miller, New Monsoon, Joan Osborne, Psychograss, Red Stick Ramblers, Slim Richey & Kat's Meow, Peter Rowan, Darrell Scott, Slave of Utopia\n\n19 April 20–23, 2006 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nAlvin Crow and Special Guests, The Del McCoury Band, Eddie From Ohio, Kinky Friedman, Flounders Without Eyes, Susan Gibson & The Moving Parts, Grassy Knoll Boys, Green Mountain Grass, Terri Hendrix, Heybale, Erik Hokkanen, Sarah Jarosz, Lonestar Bluegrass Band, Marley's Ghost, Monte Montgomery, New Monsoon, Slim Richey & Kat's Meow, Rowan and Rice Quartet, Peter Rowan Skydancer Trio, Todd Snider, Chris Stuart & Backcountry, Chip Taylor & Carrie Rodriguez, Texas Swing Kings, Texas Tribute to the Music & Life of Vassar Clemen, Uncle Earl; Abigail Washburn with Ben Sollee, The Waybacks, Keller Williams\n\n18 April 21–24, 2005 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nKaren Abrahams, Austin Lounge Lizards, Back Porch Vipers, The Bills, Kasey Chambers, Cooper's Uncle, CPR, Rodney Crowell, Daybreak, Eddie From Ohio, Bela Fleck Acoustic Trio, Flounders Without Eyes, Sarah Jarosz, Jimmy LaFave, Lonestar Bluegrass Band, New Monsoon, Railroad Earth, Reckless Kelly, The Red Stick Ramblers, Slim Richey's Dream Band with Leeann Atherton, Ashlee Rose, Special Consensus, Steep Canyon Rangers, Steppin' In It, Texas Swing Kings, Two High String Band\n\n18 April 15–18, 2004 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nKaren Abrahams, Blue Light Special, Bluegrass Journey (a documentary), Alison Brown, Stephen Bruton & Friends, Cadillac Sky, Vassar Clements, Cooper’s Uncle, The Del McCoury Band, The Gourds, The Greencards, David Grisman Quintet, Terri Hendrix with Lloyd Maines, Hot Rize with Bryan Sutton, The Isaacs-Bryant Kids, Sarah Jarosz, Libby Kirkpatrick, Leftover Salmon, Natalie MacMaster, Thomas Mapfumo, The Motet, Trish Murphy, Tim O’Brien, Open Road, Red Stick Ramblers, Peter Rowan’s Crucial Reggae, Danny Santos & the Bluegrass Vatos, South Austin Jug Band, Split Lip Rayfield, Two High String Band, Mike Williams\n\n16 April 17–20, 2003 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nAlison Brown, Vassar Clements, Cooper's Uncle, Del McCoury Band, Jerry Douglas Band, Fred Eaglesmith, Ruthie Foster, Tony Furtado Band, Purly Gates, Mary Gauthier, Good News Band, The Greencards, Patty Griffin, David Hamburger & Mike Grigoni, Caroline Herring, Shelly King, Blue Merle, Onion Creek Crawdaddies, Railroad Earth, Reel Time Travelers, Slim Richey's Dream Band, Peter Rowan, Shoal Creek Mudstompers, South Austin Jug Band, The Spurs of the Moment, Two High String Band, Waybacks, Mike Williams, Yonder Mountain String Band\n\n15 April 19–21, 2002 Salt Lick BBQ Pavilion and Camp Ben McCulloch:\nKaren Abrahams & Reckless Abandon, the John Cowan Band with Vassar Clements, Del McCoury Band, Flounders without Eyes, Ruthie Foster, Tony Furtado Band, Terri Hendrix, Caroline Herring, Ryan Holladay, Bruce Hornsby, Jim Hurst & Missy Raines, Larry, Leftover Salmon, Monte Montgomery, Railroad Earth, Peter Rowan, Michelle Shocked, The Siekers, Darden Smith, Smokin’ Grass, South Austin Gospel Choir, South Austin Jug Band, The Special Consensus, Two High String Band, The Waybacks\n\n14 April 6–8, 2001 Stone Mountain Events Center:\nKaren Abrahams & Reckless Abandon, Leeann Atherton, Batteries Not Included, Blueground Undergrass, Nickel Creek, Charlie Daniels Band, Flounders Without Eyes, The Good News Band, Bryan Hallady, John Hartford and the Hartford String Band, Terri Hendrix Band, Caroline Herring, Two High String Band, Larry, Jim Lauderdale, Tim O'Brian & Darrell Scott, Peter Rowan, Smokin' Grass, South Austin Gospel Choir, Special Consensus, Still on the Hill, Yonder Mountain String Band\n\n13 April 7–9, 2000:\nKaren Abrahams, The Blackland Prairie Boys, Bluegrass Driveby, Sarah Elizabeth Campbell, Bela Fleck & the Flecktones, Flounders Without Eyes, The Good News Band, Sara Hickman, Hillbilly Boggiemen, Foramay Holliday, Jim Hust & Missy Raines, Shelley King, Jim Lauderdale, Leftover Salmon with John Cowan, Lonestar Bludgrass Band, Claire Lynch & The Front Porch Sting Band, Kim Miller, Moonlighters, One Riot One Ranger, Quick Draw, Willis Alan Ramsey, Peter Rowan & Tony Rice, The Karl Shiftlett & Big Country Show, Slaid Cleves, Smokin' Grass, South Austin Gospel Choir, South Austin Soul Sisters, Two High Sting Band, Two O'clock Courage\n\n12 April 1999, Old Settler’s Park, Round Rock, Texas:\nKaren Abrahams, Leeann Atherton, Bells of Joy, Cactus Pickers, Guy Clark, Classical Grass, Slaid Cleaves, Cornerstone, John Cowan, Fred Eaglesmith, Joe Ely, Good, Bad & Bluegrass, Patty Griffin, High Standard, Jill Jones & the Lonestar Chorale, Lone Star Bluegrass Band, Moonlighters, Tim O’Brien, Danny Santos & the Sinners, South Austin Gospel Choir, Southern Union, Druha Trava, Two High String Band\n\n10 4 & 5 April 1997, Old Settler’s Park, Round Rock, Texas:\nKaren Abrahams, Ana Egge Band, Asylum Street Spankers, The Bad Livers, Russ Barenburg & Edgar Meyer, Blue Highway, Bluegrass Reunion with David Grisman, Sara Elizabeth Campbell, Vassar Clements & Herb Pederson, David Grisman Quartet, Iris Dement, Darcy Deville, Jerry Douglas, Ed Miller Band, Joe Ely, Fairfield Four, Steve Forbert, Grazmatics, Richard Greene & the Grass is Greener, Erik Hokkanen & Friends, Steve James, Alison Krauss & Union Station, Claire Lynch & the Front Porch String Band, Kim Miller, Paul Glasse Band, Toni Price, Peter Rowan, Don Walser, Doc Watson & Jack Lawrence, Tony Williamson & Friends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3094255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094255", "title": "Pre-1975 North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons", "text": "Pre-1975 North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons\n\nThe years before 1975 featured the pre-1975 North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons. Each season was an ongoing event in the annual cycle of tropical cyclone formation. The North Indian tropical cyclone season has no bounds, but they tend to form between April and December, peaks in May and November. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northern Indian Ocean. Below are the most significant cyclones in the time period. Because much of the North Indian coastline is near sea level and prone to flooding, these cyclones can easily kill many with storm surge and flooding. These cyclones are among the deadliest on earth in terms of numbers killed.\n\nIt was a cyclone which struck the city of Madras (now Chennai) in the Madras Presidency on 13 and 14 November 1721. The cyclone was one of the most severe in the history of the city and destroyed bridges and even suburban villages. The damages were high and three ships of the British East India Company were lost. The Island Bridge connecting Fort St George with The Island was badly damaged as a result of the cyclone.\n\nOn 7 October 1737, a natural disaster struck the city of Calcutta (modern-day Kolkata) in India. For a long time this was believed in Europe to have been the result of an earthquake, but it is now believed to have been a tropical cyclone. Thomas Joshua Moore, the duties collector for the British East India Company in Calcutta, wrote in his official report that a storm and flood had destroyed nearly all the thatched buildings and killed 3,000 of the city's inhabitants. Other reports from merchant ships indicated an earthquake and tidal surge were to blame, destroying 20,000 ships in the harbor and killing 300,000 people. It should be noted that the population of Calcutta at the time was around 3,000–20,000.\n\nAlthough there seems to be little evidence for the popular figure of 300,000 deaths or for the existence of an earthquake at all, it is this number that shows up in popular literature. At the same time, the figure of 3,000 is only an estimation of the number of deaths inside the city itself. This apparent incongruity in the data suggests a possible mix-up with the numbers for the 1839 Coringa cyclone mentioned in this article, which also suggest 20,000 sunk ships and 300,000 fatalities. Both of these figures may stem from the 300,000 figure in the 1737 super cyclone in the West Bengal region, as neither one has similar numbers, according to the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project's site.\n\nStrong storm surge from a cyclone that hit Coringa, India destroyed the port and killed 20,000.\n\nAn intense cyclone struck Odisha.\n\nA ship reported a pressure of 891 mbar (26.30 inHg) at Kedgeree, India.\n\nOn 25 November 1839, an enormous cyclone caused a 40-foot storm surge that hit Coringa, Andhra Pradesh, wiped out the harbor city, destroyed vessels in its bay, and killed 300,000 people. Survivors never entirely rebuilt the city.\n\nThis intense cyclone moved into Bengal state. A total of 75,000 people and 6000 cattle perished during the storm.\n\nOn October 5, a powerful cyclone hit near Calcutta, India, killing around 60,000 people. The anemometer in the city was blown away during the cyclone. Over 100 brick homes and tens of thousands of tiled and straw huts were leveled. Most ships in the harbor (172 out of 195) were either damaged or destroyed. The cyclone of 1864 destroyed the ports at Khejuri and Hijli.\n\nThe anemometer in the city was blown away during the cyclone. A lack of storm surge minimized the overall damage from this system.\n\nThis severe cyclone killed 80,000 people and caused significant damage.\n\nOn October 31, a cyclone hit the Meghna River Delta area of India. The storm surge killed 100,000, and the disease after the storm killed another 100,000.\n\nA cyclone had formed near the Laccadive Islands on May 24, west of southern India. The SS Mergui encountered the cyclone off the Horn of Africa, east of Socotra on June 1 and reported it stronger than the tropical cyclone which struck Calcutta in 1864. Just before midnight on the night of June 1, the Diomed reported winds of hurricane force and a pressure of . The ship Peshawar reported a westerly hurricane at the east end of the Gulf of Aden towards midnight on the night of June 2. At noon on June 3, the Tantallon reported a pressure of near 12.5N 45.5E. On June 3, the German corvette Augusta, the French dispatch boat Renard, and the British ship SS Speke Hall were lost in the storm in the Gulf of Aden. The system continued westward and shrank in scale as it moved into the entrance of the Red Sea, crossing the coast of Djibouti.\n\nAn intense cyclone struck Odisha.\nit killed one person.\n\nThis system formed off the west coast of India during the first week of June and moved northwest towards the Arabian peninsula. Approaching the Gulf of Oman, strong winds and heavy rains affected Sur during the afternoon on June 4. Rain spread west that evening towards Muscat, where winds increased to hurricane-force from the north-northeast early on June 5. The eye of the storm made landfall at Sohar at dusk on June 5, eventually dissipating well inland. Heavy rains fell at the hospital in Muscat, where were recorded. This led to flooding which took several hundred lives. Several thousand date trees were uprooted by the storm's winds and carried away by its floods. Several homes were leveled in Muscat and Mutrah. Fifty perished from downing near the coast or being buried by debris. Overall, 727 people lost their lives.\n\nAn intense cyclone struck Odisha.\n\nIn 1895, a cyclonic storm hit the Makran coast in Balochistan province in modern-day Pakistan.\n\nIn May 1902, a cyclonic storm struck the coast in the vicinity of Karachi.\n\nIn June 1907, a tropical storm struck the coast near Karachi.\n\nOn October 16, a cyclone hit near the India/Bangladesh border, resulting in around 40,000 fatalities. A wind gust of 225 km/h (140 mph) was recorded.\n\nOn 27 July 1944, a cyclone left some 20,000 people homeless in Karachi.\n\nThis significant storm killed 750 people and led to a loss of 30,000 cattle.\n\nIn 1948, a tropical storm made landfall along the Makran coast in Balochistan province in Pakistan.\n\nTyphoon Vae crossed over into the Indian Ocean in 1952.\n\nThis cyclone brought torrential rainfall to Midnapore district in West Bengal. About 20,000 people were left homeless, while another 20,000 people were left stranded near the Assam border after the Haora River topped its banks. There was an estimated 480 fatalities, most caused by landslides.\n\nA cyclone developed over the Arabian Sea near the Gulf of Oman on December 27. Moving westward, the storm lashed Bahrain with winds of . An offshore oil rig collapsed, killing 20 Royal Dutch Shell employees.\n\nA cyclone originating over the Arabian Sea left 500 fatalities in Bahrain.\n\nThis system first became a low-pressure area near the Laccadive Islands on May 19, tracking northwest towards the Arabian peninsula. The system made landfall at Raysut on May 24. At Salalah, skies clouded over on May 23 as the pressure fell significantly. Winds turned northerly before midnight that night. At 1 a.m. on May 24 the peak of the storm's winds arrived. Maximum sustained winds were estimated at and the pressure at Salalaha fell to . Many vessels offshore, including two large passenger ships, went to pieces. Five buildings collapsed and several roofs were blown away by the cyclone. Salalah recorded of rain at their airport. A total of 141 lives from the ship Samha were taken during this tempest.\n\nFifteen depressions developed during the course of the 1960 season, with five becoming cyclonic storms. The majority of activity took place in the Bay of Bengal, with eleven cyclones forming there. The season's first storm formed over the Arabian Sea on May 10. Though it remained over water for its entire existence, several vessels encountered the storm and reported hurricane-force winds as well as a pressure of 974 mbar (hPa; 28.77 inHg). The deadliest and most intense cyclone of the season was Severe Cyclonic Storm Ten, which killed 14,174 in East Pakistan in early November. Attaining peak winds estimated at 150 km/h (90 mph) and a pressure of 966.7 mbar (hPa; 28.55 inHg), it struck just three weeks after the previous system devastated the same area. Producing a 6.1 m (20 ft) storm tide that swept 16 km (10 mi) inland, several coastal islands were completely submerged. An estimated 200,000–300,000 were left homeless in the wake of the two storms. These systems marked the start of an unusually active period of cyclones impacting East Pakistan, culminating ten years later with the 1970 Bhola cyclone that killed 300,000–500,000 people. During the course of the season, several depressions impacted India, each producing heavy rain. Collectively, these systems killed 125 people.\n\nOn May 19, a tropical disturbance formed over the Laccadive Islands, before tracking northwest towards the Arabian peninsula. The system achieved cyclone intensity on May 22. A United States Weather Bureau research flight flew into the -wide eye of the hurricane-strength system, and found a central pressure of . A ship west of the system reported winds of . At Salalah, a strong northerly wind set in during the morning of May 25. Later in the day, winds increased to gale force and a sandstorm reduced visibility to . Later in the day of May 26 winds again increased to gale force and another sandstorm reduced visibility to . As winds increased to the sandstorm became more severe, with visibility restricted to . Late on the night of the 26th, winds shifted to northeast and heavy rains fell across the region through the morning hours. Skies remained cloudy with periods of rain into May 28. A total of was recorded at Salalah.\n\nOn May 28, a cyclone hit present-day Bangladesh (then known as East Pakistan province), causing 22,000 fatalities due to storm surge and flooding.\n\nIt made landfall in Tharparkar and Hyderabad district in Sindh province in Pakistan on 12 June. However it caused a great loss of life and property in the province. It killed 450 people and left some 400,000 people homeless.\n\nTwo cyclones that hit on May 11 and June 1 killed a total of 47,000 people.\n\nA cyclone hit East Pakistan on December 15, causing about 10,000 casualties.\n\nA cyclone struck Madras, India on November 3, killing over 50 people and leaving 800,000 people homeless.\nOn October 12, an intense cyclone struck the state of Odisha and left complete devastation along its path.\n\nOn May 10, a cyclone struck Myanmar (then known as Burma), killing 1,037 people and leaving 297,768 people homeless.\n\nStorms in May and November struck Andhra Pradesh, killing 858 people.\n\nThe 1970 Bhola cyclone was a devastating tropical cyclone that struck East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and India's West Bengal on November 12, 1970. It was the deadliest tropical cyclone ever recorded, and one of the deadliest natural disasters in modern times. Up to 500,000 people lost their lives in the storm, primarily as a result of the storm surge that flooded much of the low-lying islands of the Ganges Delta. This cyclone was the sixth cyclonic storm of the 1970 North Indian Ocean cyclone season, and also the season's strongest, reaching a strength equivalent to a Category 3 hurricane.\n\nThe cyclone formed over the central Bay of Bengal on November 8 and travelled north, intensifying as it did so. It reached its peak with winds of 185 km/h (115 mph) on November 12, and made landfall on the coast of East Pakistan that night. The storm surge devastated many of the offshore islands, wiping out villages and destroying crops throughout the region. In the most severely affected Thana, Tazumuddin, over 45% of the population of 167,000 was killed by the storm.\n\nThe Pakistani government was severely criticized for its handling of the relief operations following the storm, both by local political leaders in East Pakistan and in the international media. The opposition Awami League gained a landslide victory in the province, and continuing unrest between East Pakistan and the central government triggered the Bangladesh Liberation War, which concluded with the creation of the country of Bangladesh.\n\nA tropical cyclone moved through the Arabian Sea near the end of October.\n\nOn October 27 a tropical depression formed in the Bay of Bengal. It tracked northward, steadily strengthening until reaching a peak of 115 mph winds. The cyclone struck Cuttack, a city in Odisha, India, on October 29, and dissipated 2 days later. The storm surge and flooding from the system caused 10,800 fatalities.\nA cyclone in September 1972 struck Andhra Pradesh, killing 100.\n\nThis system killed 80 people and 150 cattle. The cyclone is visible on \"The Blue Marble\" photo taken by Apollo 17.\n\nThis system formed in the Arabian Sea on May 27 and struck the Arabian peninsula on May 28, becoming the tenth system to affect the region since 1891.\n\nThis system formed as a tropical depression in the southern Bay on December 5, strengthening into a tropical storm as it turned north-northwest on December 5, then to hurricane strength on December 6. The cyclone recurved, striking Indian near Calcutta on December 9, though its main impacts were across Bangladesh.\n\nThis system developed off the eastern coast of southern India on November 23 and strengthened as it moved to the northeast. The system nearly reached hurricane strength as it made landfall near Chittagong late on November 28. A storm surge accompanied the system's approach to Bangladesh, which inundated several islands offshore. Less than 100 people perished while thousands were left homeless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24629523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24629523", "title": "Primorske novice", "text": "Primorske novice\n\nPrimorske novice () is a regional daily newspaper published in Koper, Slovenia. \n\n\"Primorske novice\" was establied in 1963 as result of the merger of weekly paper \"Nova Gorica\" (founded in 1947) with another weekly named \"Slovenski Jadran\" (meaning \"The Slovene Adriatic\" in English; founded in 1950). It started as a weekly newspaper and became a daily in 2004. It became also the first regional daily newspaper in the country.\n\n\"Primorske novice\" is published by Primorske novice d.o.o. which is based in Koper and the paper launched its website in 1996. It has no political affiliation.\n\nAs of 2009 it was still the only regional daily newspaper in Slovenia. The 2007 circulation of the paper was 23,000 copies. It became 65,000 in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "55639936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55639936", "title": "Project Blue Book (TV series)", "text": "Project Blue Book (TV series)\n\nProject Blue Book is an upcoming American science fiction drama television series, scheduled to premiere on History January 8, 2019. The main role of Josef Allen Hynek is played by Aidan Gillen, and the series will consist of ten episodes. The series is based on the real-life Project Blue Book.\n\nThe series revolves around secret U.S. Air Force investigations into supposed UFO encounters and unexplained phenomenon, undertaken by astrophysicist, and eventual ufologist, Josef Allen Hynek in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\n\nThe series was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It was co-produced by the History Channel and A&E Studios.\n\n"}
{"id": "85201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85201", "title": "Ramzi bin al-Shibh", "text": "Ramzi bin al-Shibh\n\nRamzi bin al-Shibh (, ; also transliterated as bin al-Shaibah) (born May 1, 1972) is a Yemeni citizen being held by the U.S. as an enemy combatant detainee at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. He is accused of being a \"key facilitator for the September 11 attacks\" in 2001 in the United States.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, bin al-Shibh moved as a student to Hamburg, Germany, where he allegedly became close friends with Mohamed Atta, Ziad Jarrah and Marwan al-Shehhi. Together, they are suspected of forming the Hamburg cell and becoming central perpetrators of the September 11 attacks. He was the only one of the four who failed to obtain a U.S. visa; he is accused of acting as an intermediary for the hijackers in the United States, by wiring money and passing on information from key al-Qaeda figures. After the attacks, bin al-Shibh was the first to be publicly identified by the U.S. as the \"20th hijacker\", of whom there have been several more possible candidates.\n\nBin al-Shibh has been in United States custody since he was captured on September 11, 2002, in Karachi, Pakistan. He was held by the CIA in black sites in Morocco before being transferred to Guantanamo Bay in September 2006. Finally charged in 2008 before a military commission, he and several others suspected in the 9/11 attacks went to trial beginning in May 2012.\n\nRamzi bin al-Shibh was born in Hadhramaut province in Yemen. When he was young, his family moved to a working-class neighborhood in the capital, Sana'a. In 1987, his father died. He was cared for by his older brother, Ahmed, and his mother.\n\nIn 1987, while still in high school, bin al-Shibh worked part-time as a clerk for the International Bank of Yemen. He continued working there until 1995.\n\nBin al-Shibh applied for a U.S. visa in 1995, but his request was denied. He went to Germany, where he requested political asylum, claiming that he was a political refugee from Sudan. He lived in Hamburg until 1997, when the judge refused his asylum request.\n\nBin al-Shibh returned to the Hadramaut region of Yemen. A short while later he received a German visa under his real name. While he was in Germany, bin al-Shibh used the name Ramzi Omar. In 1997, bin al-Shibh met Mohamed Atta at a mosque; he was the leader of the Hamburg cell. For two years, Atta and bin al-Shibh were roommates in Germany.\n\nIn late 1999, bin al-Shibh traveled to Kandahar in Afghanistan, where he received training at al Qaeda camps. He met others involved in planning the September 11 attacks.\n\nOriginal plans for the 9/11 attacks called for bin al-Shibh to be one of the hijacker pilots, along with three other members of the Hamburg cell, including Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, and Ziad Jarrah. From Hamburg, bin al-Shibh applied to take flight training in the United States. At that time, he also applied to Aviation Language Services, which provides language training for student pilots. Bin al-Shibh applied for an entry visa to the United States, four times, and was refused each time. He made visa applications in Germany on May 17, 2000, and again in June, on September 16, and October 25, 2000.\n\nAccording to the 9/11 Commission, this refusal of a visa was motivated by general concern by U.S. officials at the time that people from Yemen, which was struggling economically, would illegally overstay their visit and seek work in the United States. His friend, Zakariyah Essabar, was also denied visas. After failing to gain a visa to enter the United States, bin al-Shibh took on a \"coordinator\" role in the plot, serving as a link between Atta in the United States and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in Afghanistan.\n\nAccording to the \"al-Jazeera\" reporter Yosri Fouda's documentary, \"Top Secret: The Road to September 11\", three weeks prior to the attacks, Saeed al-Ghamdi is believed to have used the name \"Abdul Rahman\" to message bin al-Shibh online (who was posing as a girlfriend), writing:\n\nThe first semester commences in three weeks. Two high schools and two universities. ... This summer will surely be hot ...19 certificates for private education and four exams. Regards to the professor. Goodbye.\n\nThis was said to be a reference to two military targets and two civilian, and 19 hijackers.\n\nBin al-Shibh later said that Mohamed Atta had phoned him on the morning of August 29.\n\nHe said, 'A friend of mine gave me a puzzle and I want you to help me out.' I said to him, 'Is this the time for puzzles, Mohamed?' He said, 'Yes, I know, but no one else but you could help me.' He said, 'Two sticks, a dash and cake with a stick down. What is it?' I said, 'Did you wake me up just to tell me this?' As it turns out, two sticks is the number 11. A dash is a dash. And cake with a stick down is the number nine. And that was September 11.\n\nIn August 2000, Ziad Jarrah tried to enroll bin al-Shibh in a Florida flight school.\n\nBin al-Shibh sent money via wire transfer on September 25, 2000, to Marwan al-Shehhi in Florida.\n\nIn August 2001, bin al-Shibh sent approximately $14,000 to Zacarias Moussaoui, using the alias \"Ahad Sabet\", a few days after receiving transfer of $15,000 from Hashim Abdulrahman in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nBin al-Shibh was the first to be publicly identified by the United States as the \"20th hijacker,\" someone who was thought to have been tasked to fill out the single missing slot among the four terrorist five-person teams. This spot was never filled. United Flight 93 had four hijackers, not five, which is believed in part to have led to the success of the passenger revolt. The passengers likely caused the crash of the plane near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.\n\nAfter January 14, 2002, bin al-Shibh was featured among five suspected al-Qaeda members on videos delivering what United States Attorney General John Ashcroft described as \"martyrdom messages from suicide terrorists.\" NBC News said that the five videos had been recorded after the September 11 attacks.\n\nOn September 8, 2006, al-Qaeda released a video that shows Osama bin Laden and some of the 9/11 hijackers. The tape identifies bin al-Shibh as the \"coordinator of the 9/11 attacks\" in its English subtitles. The video shows bin al-Shibh and other hijackers training in kickboxing, as well as disarming and concealing weapons at a terrorist training camp in or near Kandahar, Afghanistan.\n\nOn January 17, 2002, the FBI published the first Most Wanted Terrorists Seeking Information list (now known as the FBI's \"Seeking Information - War on Terrorism\" list). They identified the five wanted terrorists, about whom little was known but who were suspected of plotting additional terrorist attacks in martyrdom operations. (see current version displaying photos of five terrorists on the remaining martyrdom videos FBI list, as of June 2006) Ramzi bin al-Shibh was one of the four men among the five whose names were known.\n\nThe other three are still featured in compiled video clips, in order of appearance, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, Abd al-Rahim, and Khalid Ibn Muhammad al-Juhani. The fifth was identified a week later as \"Abderraouf Jdey\", alias \"Al-Rauf bin al-Habib bin Yousef al-Jiddi\".\n\nAshcroft said the five videotapes, shown by the FBI without sound, had been recovered from the rubble of the home of Mohammad Atef outside Kabul, Afghanistan. Ashcroft called upon people worldwide to help \"identify, locate and incapacitate terrorists who are suspected of planning additional attacks against innocent civilians.\" The sound was left out to guard against the possibility that the messages contained signals for other terrorists. Ashcroft added that an analysis of the audio suggested \"the men may be trained and prepared to commit future suicide terrorist acts.\" Ashcroft said not much was known about any of them except bin al-Shibh.\n\nRamzi bin al-Shibh is suspected of having been involved in the 2000 USS \"Cole\" bombing, and the 2002 Ghriba synagogue bombing in Tunisia.\n\nBin al-Shibh was captured in Pakistan on September 11, 2002, after a gun battle in Karachi with the Pakistani ISI and the CIA's Special Activities Division. On September 14, 2002, he was transferred to the United States. CIA officers transported him by extraordinary rendition to a secret black site in Morocco for interrogation. The CIA admitted in August 2010 that it has video tapes of these interrogations.\n\nHis profile was removed from the FBI Seeking Information wanted list by October 17, 2002. Bin al-Shibh was held by the U.S. at an undisclosed CIA-led location until September 2006. On September 6, 2006, U.S. President George W. Bush announced that bin al-Shibh and thirteen other CIA-held, high-value detainees had been transferred to Guantanamo Bay detention camp.\n\nBin al-Shibh is also wanted by German courts; he had shared a Hamburg apartment with Mohamed Atta, the suspected ringleader of the September 11 hijackers. In 2005, the USA denied a German request for bin al-Shibh's extradition. In an earlier extradition and trial, Abdelghani Mzoudi, a 9/11 suspect, was acquitted of German charges.\n\nA three-page-long Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for Ramzi bin al-Shibh on February 8, 2007, for a Combatant Status Review Tribunal. The transcript of his hearing was eight pages long. It said that he chose not to attend his Tribunal, held March 9, 2007. The first two pages of the transcript were consumed with the Tribunal's officers swearing oaths, and the reading out of the Tribunal mandate and authority.\n\nThe Tribunal's President called on the captive's Personal Representative to explain his efforts to explain the captive's right to be present at his Tribunal.\n\nThe allegations prepared for the first 558 captives whose status was examined by Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRT), between August 2004 and January 2005, were broken into two sections: those that established a connection to terrorism, and those that established hostile activity. The allegations were numbered, and were generally only one or two sentences in length.\n\nThe allegations against Ramzi bin al-Shibh are as follows:\n\nOn June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008), that detainees had the right to access the federal court system in \"habeas\" challenges to their detention. It ruled that the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which had restricted their exercise of habeas corpus outside the military commission system, was unconstitutional in this respect. The first 22 captives who had pending habeas petitions in 2006 when the Act was passed, were allowed to re-initiate their petitions in August 2008. Ramzi bin al-Shibh's habeas corpus petition was filed August 29, 2008. He had been assigned a military defense lawyer, Navy Lieutenant Commander Kevin Bogucki.\n\nBin al-Shibh and four other captives classified as high value detainees (Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Mustafa al-Hawsawi, Ammar al-Baluchi and Walid Bin Attash) were charged in Guantanamo military commissions in Spring 2008. The men triggered controversy when they announced that they did not want US-appointed attorneys and they planned to boycott their commissions. The military commissions, as authorized by President George W. Bush, did not permit suspects to forgo legal representation, to act as their own attorneys, or to boycott their commissions. The commissions authorized by the Military Commissions Act of 2006, did authorize suspects to serve as their own attorneys.\n\nThe other four men eventually agreed to attend their commissions. Bin al-Shibh, however, has continued to refuse to attend. His appointed attorneys had expressed concern about him and his state of mental health. The top-secret location of Camp 7, where the high-value detainees are held, had been off limits to military attorneys. The individual detainees are hooded when they travel from the camp to their commission hearings.\n\nSuzanne Lachelier offered to wear a hood in order to be taken to him, but the camp authorities initially refused. She finally gained approval in 2008 to visit al-Shibh, together with her co-counsel. They traveled in a windowless van, which was used to transport prisoners. She was the first defense lawyer to visit Camp 7.\n\nThe judge presiding over the commission's pre-trial motions ordered bin al-Shibh and Mustafa al-Hawsawi to undergo mental competency hearings. On December 8, 2008, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed told the judge that he and the other four men who had been indicted wished to confess and plead guilty; however, the plea would be delayed until after the competency hearings for bin al-Shibh and Hawsawi. All five men wanted to make their pleas together.\n\nOn May 17, 2010, \"Saba News\" reported that Ramzi Al-Shaibah, and four other Yemenis would face charges in the summer of 2010. Two other Yemenis to face charges were: Walid Bin Atash and Abdul Rahim Al-Nasheri. \"Saba News\" did not name the fourth and fifth individuals.\n\nIn 2011, the lawyers of Bin al-Shibh argued that he may be unfit to stand trial and participate in his own defense. They have asked that the proceedings against him and his four co-accused be stayed until his mental state is determined. They say he has been prescribed psychotropic drugs of the sort that are used to treat schizophrenia. Bin al-Shibh claims that he is mentally fit, has denounced his lawyers, and says that he wants to represent himself before the commissions.\n\nIn October 2012, the US began the trials of al-Shibh and the other four 9/11 defendants.\n\nOn January 31, 2014, Carol Rosenberg, reporting in the \"Miami Herald\", wrote that Pohl had to delay al-Shibh's trial again, because the panel of three military psychiatrists who tried to determine whether he was mentally competent to stand trial had not been able to reach a conclusion.\nAl-Shibh had not been prepared to answer the doctor's questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3212374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212374", "title": "Rogers Plan", "text": "Rogers Plan\n\nThe Rogers Plan (also known as Deep Strike) was a framework proposed by United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers to achieve an end to belligerence in the Arab–Israeli conflict following the Six-Day War and the continuing War of Attrition. The plan was publicly proposed in a December 9, 1969 speech at an Adult Education conference.\n\nThe December 1969 speech followed the failure of the Jarring Mission to negotiate an implementation plan for UN Security Council Resolution 242 among the principals in the Six-Day War.\n\nSome of the points included in Rogers' ten-point paper called for the following:\n\nFailure of the Jarring Mission and the mediated peace talks reflected a long-standing stalemate between Israel and Egypt. Whereas Israel demanded a formal recognition of its sovereignty, gained via direct peace talks with Egypt, Egypt would only agree to offer a peace sponsored by the third-party United Nations (this would allow Egypt to avoid political fallout from the Arab nations, which were strongly opposed to recognition of Israel). In addition to this peace, Israel would return all land to Egypt. Both parties viewed the conflicting interests as a stalemate only to be resolved via military intimidation. Whereas the US government view hoped to use promises of arms to gain Israeli concessions on land, Israel desired arms to secure the land it refused to give up.\n\nNegotiations leading up to Rogers' plan were complicated not only by hostilities between Israel and Egypt, but also by the differing philosophies adopted by the Soviet Union and the United States in approaching the negotiations. Soviet strategy during the peace talks had been to \"bring the Egyptians with them every step of the way. American strategy was wholly different. There was never any question of trying to persuade the Israelis to endorse each American move as it was made. To secure Israel's agreement the Americans calculated that they would first have to have that of Egypt and the Soviet Union\".\n\nThus, though both Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir and Israeli Ambassador to the United States Yitzhak Rabin had conferred with U.S. President Richard Nixon in the last few months of 1969, Rogers' speech was viewed as a surprise.\n\nIsrael rejected the plan on December 10, 1969, calling it \"an attempt to appease [the Arabs] at the expense of Israel. The Soviets dismissed it as \"one-sided\" and \"pro-Israeli.\" President Nasser rejected it because it was a separate deal with Israel even if Egypt recovered all of Sinai.\n\nIn an unsuccessful attempt to draw the UN intervention following the cease-fire which ended the Six Day War, the Egyptians launched a new round of artillery duels with Israeli forces. While Secretary Rogers pursued his peace plan, Pres. Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, with the assistance of three brigades of Soviet troops, rapidly escalated the War of Attrition against Israeli forces at the Suez Canal in an attempt to inflict maximum casualties on Israeli forces.\n\nOn June 1970, Rogers initiated a ceasefire plan, sometimes called the Second Rogers Plan Egypt accepted the ceasefire plan. Israel eventually accepted it, which had resulted in the right-wing Gahal party leaving Golda Meir's government in August 1970. The acceptance had resulted in the August 7, 1970, \"in place\" cease-fire.\n\nAccording to the cease-fire agreement, both sides were required not to change \"the military status quo within zones extending 50 km to the east and west of the cease-fire line.\" Although forbidden in the ceasefire agreement, Egypt immediately moved anti-aircraft batteries into the zone. By October there were about 100 SAM sites in the zone, and Rogers made no diplomatic effort to secure their removal. He thus had little credibility in Israel, and the 1973 Yom Kippur War eventually occurred.\n\nIsraeli military assertiveness resulted in a political setback with the United States, but Nasser had gained a respite that enabled him to consolidate his missile defense systems that had grown out from the war. Nasser also used the negotiations as a way of opening the lines of communication with the United States to counter his growing reliance on the Soviet Union. The PLO was shocked and angered by the agreement, which led for Habash and Hawatmah attempts to overthrow King Hussein. The actions led to the Black September, a civil war that broke out in Jordan on September 16, 1970.\n\nIn June 1971, Rogers initiated a plan for an interim agreement across the Canal, which is sometimes called the \"Third Rogers Plan.\"<name=\"knesset.gov.il\" />\nNo breakthrough occurred, even after Sadat, in a surprise move, suddenly expelling Soviet advisers from Egypt and again signaled to Washington his willingness to negotiate. However, on 28 February 1973, during a visit in Washington, D.C., Meir agreed with Henry Kissinger's peace proposal based on \"security versus sovereignty:\" Israel would accept Egyptian sovereignty over all Sinai, and Egypt would accept Israeli presence in some of Sinai strategic positions.\n\nSadat continued the trend by both standing by the Rogers Plan and kicking out the pro-Soviet group of Ali Sabry in April 1971. It is unlikely, however, that the United States viewed the relations the same way since the State Department's focus was competition with the Soviet Union, as opposed to regional conflicts. The resolution also exacerbated the divisions between Kissinger and Rogers, and the Middle Eastern countries saw that the goals of American foreign policy were different. Kissinger did not want to involve the Soviet Union or any Arab countries friendly to them; in hopes they would turn to the United States and reject the Soviet Union.\n\nIsrael used that in hopes of preventing all peace talks, which could have resulted in getting greater land capitulations from Arab countries due to Israel's military strength. Nasser forestalled any movement toward direct negotiations with Israel. In dozens of speeches and statements, Nasser posited the equation that any direct peace talks with Israel were tantamount to surrender.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43840761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43840761", "title": "Roller Coaster Yard Sale", "text": "Roller Coaster Yard Sale\n\nThe Roller Coaster Yard Sale, sometimes referred to as the Roller Coaster Fair, is an outdoor second-hand sale held annually for three days beginning the first Thursday in October. It takes place along several US and state routes in southern Kentucky and northern middle Tennessee.\n\nThe event was started by Sarah Ann Bowers in 1986. The reason that Bowers started the event is that she wanted to improve the beautiful Cordell Hull Highway (KY Routes 63 & 90 in Barren County) and needed to prove that the road was very well traveled in the area. In 2001, over 140,000 travelers visited the area from miles around just to take in yard sales along the specific routes.\n\nIn 2002, the yard sale routes extended into Clay, Overton, and Pickett counties in Middle Tennessee. Soon after that US 127 in Clinton County, Kentucky and Kentucky Route 90 from Clinton County through Burkesville to Glasgow and Cave City, Kentucky were added to the Roller Coaster Fair itinerary to make the event go completely around the Dale Hollow Lake area.\n\nThe current yard sale route for this event, in terms of mileage, in the present day, totals about 159 miles (255 km), covering five counties in Kentucky and three counties in Tennessee.\n\nThe Roller Coaster Fair takes place at several booths located along these routes listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26821793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26821793", "title": "Rolling Stars and Planets", "text": "Rolling Stars and Planets\n\nRolling Stars and Planets is an Austrian visual art project of exhibitions and performances with sphere objects. The project mastered by Elisabeth Ledersberger-Lehoczky is joined by about 25 artists who come mostly from Austria, but also from Hungary and Germany. \n\nThe Rolling Stars and Planets are spherical art objects, standardized in size and basic material, but individually designed by each artist. The globes are painted, or designed as objects.\nThe circumfluent frame, concepted by Ledersberger-Lehoczky, consist of ring-shaped Aluminium-hoops with a diameter of about 100 cm. This frame is associated with the orbits of Celestial bodies. It provides the reservation of the artworks and allaviates the moving.\n\nThe inner Parts with a diameter of about 75 cm have been designed by the artist individually using themes like Astronomy, Astrology, Mythology and Legends.\n\nIn Autumn 2008 Ledersberger-Lehoczky and István Jankovics organized an Symposium in the \"Gothard Observatorium of Astrophysics\" of the Eötvös Loránd University in Szombathely. The main Theme was \"Men in space\". During this event sculptures of five sculptors have been shown. During the \"Planetra Science Congress\" 2008 in Münster Ledersberger-Lehoczky presented an art project which was decided to accompany the Year of Astronomy 2009.\n\nA collective action with individual designed sphere-objects was arranged during a meeting in Vienna between Günther Frank and Elisabeth Ledersberger-Lehoczky. Günther Frank suggested the moving of the globes in public spaces.\n\nIn the Year of Astronomy 2009 25 visual artists, many of them members of the Austrian association of professional art in Vienna and Graz, designed spherical paintings and objects. The artists used techniques like Painting, Collage or Object Art.\n\nAdapted to each globe painting the executing artist made a description, in which he declared his technique and the matter of his artwork.\n\nThe first event started on April 4, 2009 in front of the Kunsthistorischen Museum in Vienna. The artists rolled their artworks around the Maria Theresia-monument.\n\nIn May 2009 the \"BiondekBühne Theater- und Tanzwerkstatt\" in Baden near Vienna created a choreography for a group of 14 dancers, the \"Ladies-First-Ladies\". This choreografy concerned with the Rolling Stars and Planets was shown in Baden and in Linz while this City was European Capital of Culture.\nThe performancers \"SF - SlowForward\" showed the choreography \"Breath of the Cosmos\", which had been especially created for the Rolling Stars and Plandets. Linz September 3, 2009\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19389185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19389185", "title": "Sam Giancana", "text": "Sam Giancana\n\nSalvatore \"Sam\" Giancana (né Giangana; June 15, 1908 – June 19, 1975), was a Sicilian American mobster, notable as being boss of the criminal Chicago Outfit from 1957–1966. His nicknames were \"Mooney\", \"Momo\", \"Sam the Cigar\", and \"Sammy\".\n\nGiancana was born Salvatore Giangana, in The Patch on Chicago's West Side, to Italian Sicilian immigrants from Partanna, in the province of Trapani. His father, Antonino (later simplified to Antonio) Giangana, owned a pushcart and later briefly owned an Italian ice shop, which was later firebombed by criminal rivals of his son.\n\nSam Giancana joined the 42 Gang, a juvenile street crew working for political boss Joseph Esposito. (The name of the 42 Gang came from associating themselves with Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves. They thought they were one better, hence 42). Giancana soon developed a reputation for being an excellent getaway driver, a high earner, and a vicious killer. After Esposito's murder, in which Giancana was allegedly involved, the 42 Gang was transformed into a \"de facto\" extension of the Chicago Outfit. The Outfit was initially wary of the 42ers, thinking they were too wild. However, Giancana's reputation gained him the notice of Outfit leaders such as Frank \"The Enforcer\" Nitti, Paul \"The Waiter\" Ricca, and Tony \"Joe Batters\" Accardo. He was arrested for the first time during 1925, for auto theft. He soon graduated to \"triggerman\", and by the age of 20 had been the prime subject of three murder investigations, but was never tried for any of them. During the late 1930s, Giancana became the first 42er to join the Chicago Outfit. From the early 1940s through the 1950s, he controlled most of the illegal gambling, illegal liquor distribution, and numerous other political rackets in Louisiana through longtime friend H.A. (Hol) Killian. Killian controlled the majority of the liquor license issuance by his associations with longtime business associate Carlos Marcello from New Orleans.\n\nGiancana married Angelina DeTolve, the daughter of immigrants from the Italian region of Basilicata, on September 23, 1933. They had three daughters, Antoinette, Bonnie, and Francine. His wife died during 1954, leaving him to raise his daughters. Giancana never remarried and was known as a good family man, despite frequent infidelities. All of the Giancana daughters have married at least once. , at least one daughter, Antoinette, had taken the \"Giancana\" name again following her divorce.\n\nDuring 1945, after serving a sentence at the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute, Indiana (during which time he told his children he was away \"at college\"), Giancana made a name for himself by convincing Accardo, then the Outfit's underboss, to stage a take-over of Chicago's African-American \"policy\" (lottery) pay-out system for The Outfit. Giancana's crew is believed to have been responsible for convincing Eddie Jones to quit his racket and leave the country. Giancana's crew was also responsible for the murder on August 4, 1952 of African-American gambling boss Theodore Roe. Both Jones and Roe were major South Side gambling bosses. However, Roe had refused to surrender control of his operation as the Outfit had demanded, and on June 19, 1951, Roe fatally shot Lennard \"Fat Lennie\" Caifano, a made man of Giancana's crew.\n\nHowever, the South Side \"policy\"-game takeover by the Outfit was not complete until another Outfit member, Jackie \"the Lackey\" Cerone, scared \"Big Jim\" Martin to Mexico with two bullets to the head that did not kill him. When the lottery money started rolling in for the Outfit after this gambling war, the amount that this game had produced for the Outfit was in the millions of dollars a year and brought Giancana further notice. It is believed to have been a major factor in his being \"anointed\" as the Outfit's new boss when Accardo resigned from being the front boss to becoming \"consigliere\", during 1957. However, it was generally understood that Accardo and Ricca still had the real power. Giancana was required to consult Accardo and Ricca on all important Outfit affairs. No major business transactions, and certainly no \"hits,\" were performed without Accardo and Ricca's approval.\n\nGiancana was present at the Mafia's 1957 Apalachin meeting at the Upstate New York estate of Joseph Barbara. Later, Buffalo crime boss Stefano Magaddino and Giancana were overheard by wiretap saying the meeting should have occurred in the Chicago area. Giancana claimed that the Chicago area was \"the safest place in the world\" for a major underworld meeting because he had several police chiefs on his payroll. If the syndicate ever wanted to hold a meeting in or around Chicago, Giancana said, they had nothing to fear because they had the area \"locked up tight\".\n\nSome journalists claimed that Giancana and his Chicago crime syndicate \"played a role\" in John F. Kennedy's victory in the 1960 presidential election.\n\nIt is widely reputed and partially corroborated by the Church Committee hearings, that during the Kennedy administration, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) recruited Giancana and other mobsters to assassinate Fidel Castro. Giancana reportedly said that the CIA and the Cosa Nostra were \"different sides of the same coin\". Documents released in 2017 showed the Sam Giancana connection to the CIA and to Robert Maheu.\n\nJudith Exner claimed to be the mistress of both Giancana and JFK, and that she delivered communications between the two regarding Fidel Castro. However, Giancana's daughter, Antoinette Giancana, has stated her belief that her father was performing a scam to pocket millions of dollars of CIA funding.\n\nDocuments released during 1997 revealed that some Mafiosi worked with CIA on assassination attempts against Castro. CIA documents released during 2007 confirmed that during the summer of 1960, CIA recruited ex-FBI agent Maheu to meet with the West Coast representative of the Chicago mob, Johnny Roselli. When Maheu contacted Roselli, Maheu hid the fact that he was sent by CIA, instead portraying himself an advocate for international corporations. He offered to pay $150,000 to have Castro killed, but Roselli refused any pay. Roselli introduced Maheu to two men he referred to as \"Sam Gold\" and \"Joe\". \"Sam Gold\" was Sam Giancana; \"Joe\" was Santo Trafficante, Jr., the Tampa/Florida /Miami syndicate boss and one of the most powerful mobsters in prerevolution Cuba. Glenn Kessler of \"The Washington Post\" explained: \"After Fidel Castro led a revolution that toppled the government of Fulgencio Batista in 1959, CIA was desperate to eliminate Castro. So, the agency sought out a partner equally worried about Castro—the Mafia, which had lucrative investments in Cuban casinos.\"\n\nAccording to the declassified CIA \"Family Jewels\" documents, Giancana and Trafficante were contacted during September 1960, about the possibility of an assassination attempt by a go-between from CIA, Maheu, after Maheu had contacted Roselli, a Mafia member in Las Vegas and Giancana's number-two man. Maheu had presented himself as a representative of numerous international businesses in Cuba that were being expropriated by Castro. He offered $150,000 for the \"removal\" of Castro through this operation (the documents suggest that neither Roselli, Giancana, nor Trafficante accepted any sort of payments for the job). According to the files, Giancana was who suggested using poison pills that could be used to dose Castro's food and drink. These pills were given by CIA to Giancana's nominee, Juan Orta, whom Giancana presented as being a corrupt official in the new Cuban government and who had access to Castro. After six attempts to introduce the poison into Castro's food, Orta abruptly demanded to be relieved from the mission, giving the job to another, unnamed participant. Later, a second attempt was done by Giancana and Trafficante using Anthony Verona, the commander of the Cuban Exile Junta, who had, according to Trafficante, become \"disaffected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta\". Verona requested $10,000 in expenses and $1,000 worth of communications equipment. However, how much work was performed for the second attempt is unknown, as the entire program was cancelled soon thereafter due to the Bay of Pigs invasion during April 1961.\n\nAt the same time, Giancana, according to the \"Family Jewels\", asked Maheu to wire the room of his then-mistress Phyllis McGuire, whom he suspected of having an affair with comedian Dan Rowan. Although documents suggest Maheu acquiesced, the device was not planted due to the arrest of the agent who had been given the task of planting the device. According to the documents, Robert Kennedy prohibited the prosecution of the agent and of Maheu, who was soon linked to the wire attempt, at CIA's request. Giancana and McGuire, who had a long-lasting affair, were originally introduced by Frank Sinatra. During part of the affair, according to Sam's daughter Antoinette, McGuire had a concurrent affair with President Kennedy.\n\nGiancana's behavior was too high-profile for Outfit preferences and attracted too much federal scrutiny. He also refused to share his lavish profits from offshore casinos in Iran and Central America with his subordinates. Both of these factors resulted in much resentment among the Outfit's rank-and-file.\nGiancana was the subject of many hours of wiretaps. On one, he was heard to say, \"We're whacking a lot of the wrong guys lately.\"\n\nWhen Giancana was called before a grand jury during 1966, he was ordered to stay silent, which put him in prison for more than a year. Meanwhile, Giancana was deposed as operational boss by Ricca and Accardo, and replaced by Joseph \"Joey Doves\" Aiuppa.\n\nAfter arriving in Mexico, Giancana managed to make money from various gambling operations, among them in Iran.\n\nWhen Tony Accardo demanded that he give a share of the profits to The Outfit, Giancana refused, claiming that he did it all by himself and outside the Outfit's jurisdiction. In response, Accardo asked someone to \"explain him the facts of life. And I mean \"life\".\" Giancana, however remained adamant and refused to pay.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Giancana relocated to Cuernavaca, Mexico in order to avoid further grand jury questioning. He was arrested by Mexican authorities on July 19, 1974 and deported to the United States. He arrived back in Chicago on July 21, 1974.\n\nGiancana had another meeting with the Outfit with no resolution. The Outfit requested he give them a share of his money, and he refused.\n\nAfter Giancana's return to the U.S., the police detailed officers to guard his house in Oak Park, Illinois. However, on the night of June 19, 1975, shortly before he was scheduled to appear before the Church Committee, which was investigating CIA and Cosa Nostra collusion, someone recalled the police detail guarding his property. A gunman later entered Giancana's basement kitchen and shot him in the back of the head as he was frying sausage and peppers. After Giancana fell to the floor, the gunman turned him over and shot him six more times in the face and neck. Investigators suspected the murderer was someone known to Giancana because, due to his heart condition, he would not eat rich foods and was therefore cooking for another.\n\nGiancana was interred next to his wife, Angelina, in a family mausoleum at Mount Carmel Cemetery, in Hillside, Illinois.\n\nWithin days of Giancana's murder, Michael J. Corbitt, the police chief of Willow Springs and a mobster associate, was told by Chicago Outfit's \"capo\" Salvatore Bastone that \"[...] Sam sure loved that little guy in Oak Park [...] Tony Spilotro. Yeah, he was fuckin' crazy about him. Sam put Tony on the fuckin' map, thought he was gonna be a big fuckin' man someday. Did you know that after Marshall Caifano got out of Vegas, it was Sam who wanted Tony Spilotro out there? Even lately, with all the problems with the skim and all, Sam always stood behind the guy. Tony was over to Sam's house all the time. He lived right by there. Did you know Tony even figured out a way where he could get in through the back of Sam's place without anybody seeing him? He'd go through other people's yards, go over fences, all sorts of shit.\" When Corbitt asked for the reason for the murder, Bastone quipped, \"There's never just one reason for shit like what happened to Sam. There's a million of 'em. Let's just say that Sam should've remembered what happened to Bugsy Siegel.\"\n\nAlthough long time associate Dominic \"Butch\" Blasi was with Giancana the night he was murdered and was questioned by police as a suspect, neither the FBI nor Giancana's daughter Antoinette consider him Giancana's killer. Hitman Nicholas Calabrese told the FBI during the 2000s that he knew that Tony Accardo was part of the killing, and Angelo LaPietra got rid of the gun which used a suppressor made by Frank Calabrese, Sr. and Ronnie Jarret.\n\nAnother theory was that Santo Trafficante, Jr., the boss of the Trafficante crime family, ordered Giancana's murder due to fears he was going to testify about the Mafia's involvement in the CIA plots to kill Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Although Trafficante would have needed permission from Outfit bosses Tony Accardo and Joseph Aiuppa, Giancana's murder coincided with the discovery of the decomposing remains of Johnny Roselli in an oil drum floating off Miami, Florida, whose body had been shot and chopped up before being dumped in the sea. The killing was suspected of being committed on the orders of Trafficante.\n\nDespite rumours that the CIA may have killed Giancana because of his links to the agency, former CIA Director William Colby has been quoted as saying, \"We had nothing to do with it\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36157868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36157868", "title": "Scarborough Shoal standoff", "text": "Scarborough Shoal standoff\n\nThe Scarborough Shoal standoff refers to tensions between China (PRC) and the Philippines which began on April 8, 2012 over the Philippine Navy apprehension of eight mainland Chinese fishing vessels in the disputed Scarborough Shoal.\n\nThe Scarborough Shoal is claimed by both China and the Philippines. Taiwan also claims the shoal as part of its territory. On April 8, 2012, a Philippine Navy surveillance plane spotted eight Chinese fishing vessels anchored in the waters of Scarborough shoal. \"BRP Gregorio del Pilar\" was sent on the same day by the Philippine Navy to survey the vicinity of the shoal, and confirmed the presence of the fishing vessels and their ongoing activities. On April 10, 2012, \"BRP Gregorio del Pilar\" came to inspect the catch of the fishing vessels. The Filipino inspection team claimed that they discovered illegally collected corals, giant clams and live sharks inside the first vessel boarded by the team. \"BRP Gregorio del Pilar\" reported that they attempted to arrest the Chinese fishermen but were blocked by Chinese maritime surveillance ships, China Marine Surveillance 75 (\"Zhongguo Haijian 75\") and China Marine Surveillance 84 (\"Zhongguo Haijian 84\"). Since then, tensions have continued between the two countries.\n\n\nHackers suspected to be from China, defaced the website of the University of the Philippines on April 20, 2012. The hackers left a message claiming, \"We come from China! Huangyan Island is Ours\". On April 21 \"Anonymous #Occupy Philippines\" retaliated and attacked the China University Media Union website, defacing its homepage with an image of a Guy Fawkes mask. The hacker said, \"Chinese government is clearly retarded. Scarborough Shoal is ours!\". The website of the University of the Philippines was back online at the same day. After the attacks, Philippine President Benigno Aquino III's deputy spokesperson Abigail Valte said that it didn't appear that the attacks would have any negative effect on the talks by Manila and Beijing to find a diplomatic solution to the standoff, and urged both Filipinos and Chinese to refrain from escalating tensions. Philippine websites of Official Gazette, the Presidential Communications Development and Strategic Planning Office, and the Presidential Museum and Library were also defaced in April. On May 4, hackers defaced the websites of \"The Philippine Star\" newspaper.\n\nChina has imposed stricter regulations on its import of Philippine bananas, as a shipload of bananas was rejected in May, allegedly due to its failure to pass quarantine tests. According to Philippine banana exporters, China's move was related to the standoff in the Scarborough shoal. China also ordered stiffer inspections over Philippine pineapples and other fruits coming from the country.\n\nMost Chinese travel agencies suspended tours to the Philippines due to the standoff over the Scarborough shoal. Tourists from China make about 9% of total arrivals to the Philippines according to the Philippine Department of Tourism. \n\nThe state-owned China Travel Service, Shanghai Tourism Bureau and Ctrip.com suspended all tours to the Philippines indefinitely citing the anti-Chinese sentiment in the country and for the safety of Chinese nationals. This has caused a boost in tourism revenues for Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam, where Chinese tourists now choose to go instead.\n\nFilipinos organized a protest near the Chinese Consulate in Manila against China's policies in the Scarborough shoal on May 11. However, this was short-lived as just a fraction of the 1,000 people expected turned up to participate in the protest. \n\nChina deployed police near the Philippine Embassy in Beijing where about 200 protesters were reported. The protest in Beijing ended peacefully. The Chinese embassy in Manila advised Chinese nationals to stay off the streets. Taiwan also released a similar advisory to its residents staying in the Philippines.\n\nHong Kong activists organized a protest on May 11, to reiterate China's claim over the Scarborough shoal near the Philippine Consulate in Hong Kong. The protesters sent an open letter to the authorities claiming that the Scarborough shoal has been a Chinese territory since 1279 during the Yuan Dynasty. They also accuse the Philippines in inciting anti-China demonstration among FIlipinos and disrupting Chinese fishermen in the shoal.\n\nFive protesters unfurled banners in front of the Philippine embassy in Beijing reading, \"Huangyan Island will always belong to China\" and \"Keep your hands off Huangyan Island\". The protest did not take long and the protesters were dispersed by the police by noon.\n\nThe Chinese government unilaterally imposed a fishing ban in the South China Sea, where the Scarborough shoal lies, lasting from May 16 to August 1. Since 1999, China has been imposing the annual summer fishing ban, which covers fishermen, regardless of nationality. Mono-layer gillnets, and hook and line fishing is not covered by the ban.\n\nThe Philippines does not recognize the Chinese fishing ban but has imposed its own fishing ban. The Filipino fishing ban lasted from May 16 to July 15 and the Philippine Coast Guard will ban Filipino fishermen from the shoal. President Benigno Aquino III insisted that the ban was for the preservation of the marine resources. Fish aggregating devices were installed in the municipal waters of Santa Cruz, Candelaria, Masinloc, Palauig and Iba in Zambales, as well as in La Union, Ilocos Sur and Ilocos Norte to ensure the livelihoods of affected Filipino fishermen. As of June 26, fishing vessels, together with paramilitary ships, are still in Scarborough shoal despite the Chinese fishing ban still effect.\n\nFormer Marine Capt. Nicanor Faeldon, planned to lead a group of fishermen to the Scarborough shoal as a protest to assert the Philippines' claim over the shoal. Faeldon also considered planting a Philippine flag on the shoal. On May 18, President Aquino, called Faeldon to dissuade him from pushing through his trip. According to Faeldon, even though his plan push through, his group does not intend to plant a flag, as opposed to earlier reports, or to fish in the area.\n\nPhilippines claimed that under a 2012 deal mediated by the United States, China and the Philippines promised to withdraw their forces from the shoal until a deal over its ownership could be reached. The Philippines \"complied with the agreement\" and withdrew. China, however, did not abide by the agreement and maintained its presence at the shoal, effectively militarizing it. Philippine president Cashmere Hennessy Corral later compared China's behavior to Nazi Germany's annexation of Czechoslovakia. China claimed that no such deal had been reached, and that it was open to talking to Philippines provided that non-regional entities such as USA stayed out of such talks.\n\nBy July 2012, China had erected a barrier to the entrance of the shoal, according to the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs. Since then, vessels belonging to the China Marine Surveillance and Fisheries Law Enforcement Command have been observed in the nearby disputed shoal and Chinese government vessels have been turning away Filipino vessels sailing to the area. In response, the Philippines has stated that it would be preparing to resend vessels to the shoal, in what has been described as a \"cold standoff\". By January 2014, China continued to maintain a presence within the shoal, among heightened tensions regarded a new law which requires non-Chinese fishing boats to seek permission from China when in the South China Sea, however Philippine fishing boats were able to fish around the shoal without Chinese interaction.\n\nIn April 2015, a Chinese Coast Guard vessel used water cannons on Philippine fishing boats, and seized the catch of some of the boats, in waters near the shoal. This follows a similar use of water cannons in the waters around the shoals in late January 2014. China dismissed reports regarding the incident and reiterated their claim to the shoal. The United States called the actions of the Chinese coast guard \"provocative\".\n\nThe role of China's continued presence on the Shoals as a justification for the United States's recent \"rebalance\" to the region has provoked mixed opinions: an article in Foreign Policy identified increased Chinese patrols of the Shoals as a reason for why China's accusation that the US pivot was stoking tensions in the South China Sea was \"patently false\" while Amitai Etzioni has writes of China's dispute over the Shoals as a reason for Washington's military buildup.\n\n\nThe International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) is an intergovernmental organization created by the mandate of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, with responsibility for the regulation of seabed mining beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, and with the power to settle disputes between party states. \n\nIn June 2013 the Philippines decided to bring the territorial row before the ITLOS after it had \"exhausted all political and diplomatic avenues for a peaceful negotiated settlement of its maritime dispute with China\", saying that it would ask the tribunal to declare China's claims as \"invalid\". China formally rejected the arbitration proceedings initiated by the Philippines. According to Annex VII of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), however, China's refusal would not necessarily impede the proceedings.\n\nIn February 2014 it was reported that China had offered mutual withdrawal from the shoal and other inducements if the Philippines would refrain from submitting a formal pleading, and that the Philippine position was, \"With what's on the table, there's not enough.\"\n\nHaving observed boat activity at the shoal that could have signaled preparation for development activity, the U.S. \"flew three different air patrols near Scarborough ..., including on April 19 and 21\", 2016, and talked of and reportedly were considering other reactions in light of generally higher tensions in the Spratlys and the region. The U.S. flights did observe the 12-mile territorial limit from the shoal.\n"}
{"id": "49123833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49123833", "title": "Show-Score", "text": "Show-Score\n\nShow-Score is an independent leisure website founded in 2015 as a New York City theatre review aggregator, community review site, and ticket finder. It has been likened to \"the \"Rotten Tomatoes\" for theatre\" and also to TripAdvisor, and provides a 'leaderboard' of most active reviewers and most liked shows. However, it is not limited to numerical reviews. As of March 2017 its userbase of 125,000 had submitted nearly 200,000 reviews, an increase of more than 50% over August 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "26468824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26468824", "title": "Sports Racer Series", "text": "Sports Racer Series\n\nThe Sports Racer Series is an Australian motor racing series for competitors racing naturally aspirated small-engined (under 1.6 litres of engine capacity) prototype sports cars. The series eligibility is something of a polyglot collection of existing racing cars and racing categories, featuring Group 2C Supersport racing cars, which in itself is an amalgamation of the former Clubman or Sports 1300 regulations with some newer motorcycle engined cars built specifically for Supersports, and a group of Category 6 sports cars produced by West, Minetti, Radical, Lincspeed and ADR, many of which formerly raced as Prototype Sports Cars, or Protosports.\n\nDrawing from so many different sources, entry was likely to be diverse, and was briefly in 2010. The first race meeting for the new category was held at the 2010 Clipsal 500 V8 Supercar race meeting. By 2011 the majority of the grid were Wests.\n\nAfter two events, the third round of the series was cancelled and no further events appear likely to take place. The series stumbled heavily in its first season. Radical drivers left the series and established their own championship in 2011. A more modest series was held in 2011. Wests made up the bulk of the field.\n\nThe field will be split into two classes based on vehicle configuration and engine specification.\n\n\n\nPerformance parity will be adjusted for each individual vehicle throughout the series. Weights, and maximum engine revolutions will be adjusted if deemed necessary throughout the series. Additional weight will be added to the car in the form of success ballast, increasing the weights of cars finishing in the top three positions in each race over the course of an event. Additionally, a seeded drivers list will be drawn up by CAMS based on past racing history and drivers on that list will have added additional weight. \n"}
{"id": "4347513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4347513", "title": "Summer Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Summer Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Summer Shakespeare Festival (Czech: \"Letní shakespearovské slavnosti\", Slovak: \"Letné shakespearovské slávnosti\") takes place in the courtyard of Burgrave Palace at Prague Castle. The festival was originally initiated by Václav Havel. The performances are also presented at Špilberk in Brno and at Bratislava Castle in Bratislava. The organizers closely cooperate with Martin Hilský, who translated most of the staged plays.\n\nSo far, the most acclaimed was the performance of \"King Lear\" in 2002. In 2004, director Martin Huba was selected for an ambitious project, a performance of \"Romeo and Juliet\" such as that one evening Capulets would be Slovaks and Monteks Czechs and the next day vice versa. The project failed, Huba said to the media that even though the dialogs translated by Ľubomír Feldek and Martin Hilský were perfect, they somehow did not fit together. In the end, the only Slovak-speaking character was the Nurse, performed by Emília Vášáryová.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49204637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49204637", "title": "Tainan fake panda incident", "text": "Tainan fake panda incident\n\nThe Tainan fake panda incident refers to an incident at a private zoo in Tainan, Taiwan, where a sun bear was painted black and white and falsely presented to visitors as a Giant Panda. The bear was first unveiled on 24 December 1987, and quickly drew skepticism as experts were not permitted to enter the enclosure, and the pattern of spots on the fur appeared to change. The Tainan District Prosecutors Office sent investigators on December 31, suspecting fraud. By 3 January 1988, officials from the Council of Agriculture, and zoology experts from National Taiwan University and Normal University determined the animal was not a true panda.\n\nThis incident made popular the use of the term \"(giant) cat bear\" [\"(dà)māoxióng\", (大)貓熊] instead of \"(giant) bear cat\" [\"(dà)xióngmāo\", (大)熊貓] to refer to pandas in Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "30323236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30323236", "title": "Tech Field Day", "text": "Tech Field Day\n\nTech Field Day is an independently organized conference series centered on enterprise IT infrastructure. Organized by Gestalt IT Media LLC, the Field Day series is intended to bring together product vendors and independent bloggers, freelance writers, speakers, and leaders of online communities. The Field Day event series began in 2009 with a general datacenter event and expanded in 2010 to include an event focused on enterprise networking.\n\nEvery Field Day event includes presentations by hardware and software vendors, but some notable introductions have also occurred at these events:\n\n"}
{"id": "961978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961978", "title": "The Boy from Oz", "text": "The Boy from Oz\n\nThe Boy from Oz is a jukebox musical based on the life of singer and songwriter Peter Allen, featuring songs written by him. The original book is by Nick Enright, with a revised book by Martin Sherman. Premiering in Australia in 1998 starring Todd McKenney, the musical opened in a revised version on Broadway in 2003 with Hugh Jackman in the title role.\n\nThe musical begins with Australian performer Peter Allen recalling his life story, coming to terms with who he was (\"The Lives of Me\"). Afterwards, we go back to Allen's childhood in Tenterfield, Australia, where a young boy named Peter Woolnough is performing in local bars for money (\"When I Get My Name in Lights\"). Peter grows up and joins with Chris Bell to become the Allen Brothers, and they perform in Australian Bandstand (\"Love Crazy\"). After great success in Australia, the Allen Brothers perform in a Hong Kong Hilton hotel to Chinese businessmen. One evening, another person is watching them from the bar: the legendary Judy Garland. Peter convinces Judy to perform with them (\"All I Wanted Was the Dream\"), and Judy takes Peter to be the opening act in her concert in New York (\"Only an Older Woman\").\n\nWhile in New York, Peter is introduced to Judy's daughter, Liza, and they fall in love (\"Best That You Can Do\"). There are rumors of Peter's homosexuality, and Judy warns Liza of this (\"Don't Wish Too Hard\"). Liza gives no attention to her warning and marries Peter (\"Come Save Me\"). \n\nPeter makes some mistakes, and at one of his all night parties Liza walks in on him (\"Continental American\"), further fueling her suspicions that he is gay. Liza is working hard to get her career going (\"She Loves to Hear the Music\"), in contrast to Peter's excessive lifestyle. Judy dies, and Peter honors her (\"Quiet Please, There's a Lady on Stage\"). Liza's world comes crashing down as a result of her mother's death.\n\nLiza confronts Peter on his alleged homosexuality, and their marriage ends (\"I'd Rather Leave While I'm in Love\"). Peter returns to Australia but realizes that he is not who people thought he was (\"Not the Boy Next Door\").\n\nBack in the US, Peter has gone solo and comes to terms with his bisexuality (\"Bi-Coastal\"). He meets the hardworking fashion model Gregory Connell. Greg does not want to be a part of Peter's life in show business, but he falls in love with Peter (\"If You Were Wondering\"). They soon get discovered by music producer Dee Anthony, and he gets them a gig at the Copacabana in New York (\"Sure Thing Baby\"). Peter's career takes off, and he wins an Oscar for Arthur's Theme, in addition to recording songs that were covered by artists Olivia Newton-John and Frank Sinatra. Peter gives his best performance in the Radio City Music Hall with The Rockettes (\"Everything Old is New Again\"), and is surprised to know his mother is also in love.\n\nGreg becomes stricken with AIDS, and even though Peter tries to help him carry on, he succumbs to his illness (\"Love Don't Need a Reason\"). Peter also becomes sick with AIDS, but Greg's spirit urges him to carry on (\"I Honestly Love You\"). Liza offers her support to Peter, and they both realize they had successful lives and careers without each other (\"You and Me\").\n\nPeter returns to Australia for a triumphant performance (\"I Still Call Australia Home\") and tries to tell his mother about his illness, but he can't find a way to tell her (\"Don't Cry Out Loud\").\n\nPeter succumbs to his disease, and he reflects on his life realizing he has no regrets as he passes away (\"Once Before I Go\"), but not before going out in style with a farewell performance (\"I Go to Rio\").\n\n\"The Boy from Oz\" had its world premiere, directed by Gale Edwards, at Her Majesty's Theatre, Sydney, Australia, on 5 March 1998 and toured Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth, playing to over 1.2 million theatre patrons. It ran for a total 766 performances over two years. The production starred showman Todd McKenney as Peter Allen and Divinyls frontwoman Chrissy Amphlett as Judy Garland, Angela Toohey as Liza Minnelli and introduced Mathew Waters as Young Peter Allen.\n\n\"The Boy from Oz\" began previews on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre on 16 September 2003 and opened on 16 October 2003. It closed on 12 September 2004, at the end of Hugh Jackman's contract. It was adapted for the American audience by playwright Martin Sherman, who removed some of the Australian terms (such as \"jackaroo\") and expanded the role of U.S. characters Garland and Minnelli. The musical played 32 previews and 365 performances. Directed by Philip William McKinley, with choreography by Joey McKneely, it starred Jackman as Peter Allen, Isabel Keating as Judy Garland, Stephanie J. Block as Liza Minnelli, Beth Fowler as Marion Woolnough, Jarrod Emick as Peter's lover Greg Connell, and John Hill as Mark Herron (Judy's husband). Jackman won the 2004 Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Musical and the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actor in a Musical, and Keating won the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Featured Actress in a Musical. The show also received nominations for four other Tony Awards, including Best Musical.\n\nBen Brantley of \"The New York Times\" panned the show, calling it an \"indisputably bogus show\", but praised Jackman's performance. The musical recouped its investment of $8.25 million.\n\n\"The Boy from Oz\" returned to Australia from 3 August 2006 to 10 September 2006 in a new production especially designed for the arena stage (audiences of over 10,000 people), called \"Boy from Oz Arena Spectacular\". Directed by Kenny Ortega, Hugh Jackman reprised his New York role as Peter Allen. He was joined by Australian actresses Chrissy Amphlett and Angela Toohey, reprising their roles as Judy Garland and Liza Minnelli. Shardyn Fahey-Leigh played the role of Young Peter Allen with Dylan Speedy. Rarmian Newton and Joshua Waiss Gates, both of whom later starred in \"Billy Elliot the Musical\", were understudies in the Australian production. Peter's mother, Marion, was played by Colleen Hewett. The show had a support cast of 40 singer-dancers and a 25-piece orchestra. \n\nThe show also featured the vocals of Australian girls' high school choirs from Penrhos College when in Perth, and, while in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, it featured the vocals of 100 girls from the Australian Girls Choir.\n\nTo celebrate \"The Boy from Oz\" turning 20, The Production Company will stage a new production as a part of their 2018 season. Rohan Browne stars as Peter Allen, and Caroline O’Connor returns to The Production Company for the role of Judy Garland. Matthew Manahan will play Greg Connell.\n\nIn Peru, the musical was released in May 2013, starring Marco Zunino as Allen, Érika Villalobos appeared as Liza Minnelli and Elena Romero as Judy Garland. It was the first Spanish language adaptation of this musical.\n\n\"All songs written by Peter Allen except as noted\"\n\n\nThe Broadway production received favorable reviews. In his review for \"The New York Times\", Ben Brantley wrote, \"His limbs twirling like the blades of a windmill, Mr. Jackman channels the energy that was Allen with a rejuvenating life force all his own. And you don’t feel — as you so often do with such interpretations — that your memories of the prototype have been blurred. This is a performance that, against the odds, holds on to its integrity.\"\n\n\"Variety\", writing about the Australian arena tour, said, \"When he first performed the role on Broadway in 2003, Hugh Jackman’s charisma, vitality and breezy confidence onstage far outshone the narrative or emotional scope of the by-the-numbers biomusical of singer-songwriter Peter Allen. The scales have been tipped even further toward the performer in this pumped-up reconfiguration of the show, playing state capitals in venues of 10,000 seats or more. It’s as much a concert platform for a returning local boy made good in Hollywood as it is a life story of Peter Allen. And that’s no bad thing.\"\n\nThe original Australian production was also received six Melbourne Green Room Awards for 1999, including Outstanding Contribution by a Music Theatre Management. It was also nominated for the Green Room Award for Best New Australian Play.\n\n"}
{"id": "7743788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7743788", "title": "The San Pedro Sun", "text": "The San Pedro Sun\n\nThe San Pedro Sun is a newspaper published continuously since 1991 and serves the community of San Pedro Town located on Ambergris Caye in Belize, Central America. The editors are Ron and Tamara Sniffin, assisted by Mary Gonzalez, Dennis and Natalie Manuel. \"The Sun\" also publishes a \"Visitor's Guide\" each week that features tourism interests in San Pedro and Belize. The Visitor Guide is inserted inside each issue of \"The San Pedro Sun\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1676793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676793", "title": "Town hall meeting", "text": "Town hall meeting\n\nTown hall meetings, also referred to as town halls or town hall forums, are a way for local and national politicians to meet with their constituents, either to hear from them on topics of interest or to discuss specific upcoming legislation or regulation. During periods of active political debate, town halls can be a locus for protest and more active debate.\n\nDespite their name, town hall meetings need not take place in a town hall. They are commonly held in a range of venues, including schools, libraries, municipal buildings, and churches. A number of officials have also experimented with digital formats for town halls. Town hall meetings organized by national politicians are often held in a variety of locations distributed across a voting district so that elected representatives can receive feedback from a larger proportion of constituents.\n\nHistorically, no specific rules or guidelines have defined a town hall meeting. Any event that allows constituent participation with a politician may be called a town hall, including gatherings in person, group phone calls, or events on Internet platforms such as Facebook or Twitter. Attendees use town halls to voice their opinions and question elected officials, political candidates, and public figures. In contrast to town meetings, a type of direct democratic rule that originated in colonial New England, attendees do not vote on issues during town hall meetings.\n\nIn the United States, town halls are a common way for national politicians to connect or reconnect with their constituents during recesses, when they are in their home districts away from Washington, DC.\n\nTown hall meetings can be traced back to the colonial era of the United States and to the 19th century in Australia. The introduction of television and other new media technologies in the 20th century led to a fresh flourishing of town hall meetings in the United States as well as experimentation with different formats in the United States and other countries, both of which continue to the present day.\n\nTown hall meetings are meant to resemble the New England town meeting that originated in the 17th century. However, participants in town hall meetings do not actually vote or make legally binding decisions as town meeting voters do.\nSome political organizations track publicized town hall events by politicians across the United States.\n\nThe 1858 debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas in some respects resembled a modern town hall meeting, although the candidates did not take questions from the audience. Not until the twentieth century did presidential candidates commonly campaign in person. Gradually, especially from the 1990s onward, presidential town hall meetings have become nearly as common as stump speeches.\n\nRichard Nixon's 1968 U.S. Presidential campaign staged nine live televised question and answer sessions using a ground-breaking theatre-in-the-round format broadcast with a live studio television audience and local residents directly asking questions of the candidate. The producer of Nixon's \"Man in the Arena\" live town-hall programs was Roger Ailes , who later went to on start FOX News . Ailes' use of a direct voter-to-candidate question-and-answer format served as the blueprint for subsequent and now ubiquitous town hall candidate formats and even multiple-candidate debates.\n\nAnother step in the development of the modern town hall meeting came on March 16, 1977, when President Carter attended a televised town hall meeting in Clinton, Massachusetts, that was \"modeled after\" a real town meeting but did not include binding votes. Bill Clinton made town hall meetings a part of his presidential campaign.\n\nInterest in town halls fluctuates depending on the level of public interest in the topics being discussed. Controversial or confusing issues that are prominently discussed in the news have led to more town halls being held. Since the 2000s, town halls held by political candidates have announced and enforced rules on crowd behavior and the scope of questions that may be asked.\n\nIn 2009, Tea Party groups opposed to the proposed health care reform legislation began attending town halls to express their disagreement with the legislation. The large and vocal crowds led some representatives to cancel or scale back their town hall events. Representative Brian Baird canceled his live town hall meetings after receiving death threats, choosing to hold a telephone conference call with his constituents instead.\n\nTown hall meetings by teleconference or online grew in popularity. Obama held some as sitting President, starting in 2011. Federal agencies have held town halls on Twitter since at least 2013. Some politicians have held AMAs on Reddit, which have similar formats.\n\nIn 2017, constituents opposed to repeal of that same health care act began attending town halls to express their disagreement with abolishing the legislation. In districts where elected representatives have not scheduled town halls, some constituents have publicly petitioned for meetings. Creative requests for town hall meetings include humorous flyer and sticker campaigns as well as songs. Some constituents have held mock town halls, using a cardboard cutout or empty chair, to stand in for elected representatives who decline to meet with them.\n\nAustralian town hall meetings have been held by state politicians since at least the 19th century.\n\nCanadian town halls have been forums for provincial politicians to discuss issues of the day since at least the 20th century. During the 1993 elections, televised town hall meetings were one of a number of initiatives mainstream media adopted to center ordinary citizens at the heart of their campaign coverage. These efforts, which also included panels of voters to offer comment in print and on radio shows, have been collectively praised as an \"international best practice.\"\n\nTown hall meetings, alternately referred to as タウンミーティング (\"taunmiitingu\") and with the English-language phrase \"town meeting,\" have been held in Japan since the late 1970s. In 1979 Shunichi Suzuki, then governor of Tokyo, held a town hall meeting, its name and format inspired by President Carter's 1977 televised town hall. In subsequent years, media conglomerate TBS has organized town hall meetings with both Japanese and foreign politicians. Various governmental agencies have also held town halls, including the Cabinet Office (National Dialogue of the Town Meeting Koizumi Cabinet), Ministry of Foreign Affairs (ODA Town Meeting), and the Ministry of the Environment (Septic Town Meeting), among others. Political parties, such as the LDP, Democratic Party, Komeito, and Japanese Communist Party, also hold town hall meetings.\n\nThe format extends beyond governmental administration and political parties. Other examples include the Athlete Town Meeting held by the Japanese Olympic Committee, the JAXA Town Meeting held by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, and the Intellectual Property Town Meeting held by the Japan Patent Attorneys Association.\n\nThe purpose of town hall meetings is for local and regional officials to hear the community's views on public issues.\n\nThere have been no specific rules or guidelines for holding a town hall meeting. The format of the meetings can vary. Usually, the person holding the meeting (e.g. member of Congress) makes some opening remarks. Sometimes others (e.g. local leaders) will address the audience, as well. The main part of a town hall meeting tends to occur when the floor is opened up to questions and comments from the audience. Attendees generally present ideas, voice their opinions, ask questions of the public figures, elected officials, or political candidates at the town hall. Sometimes, the town hall meeting is televised or recorded. In recent years, town halls held by political candidates have announced and enforced rules on crowd behavior and the scope of questions that may be asked.\n\nIf the turnout is large, and if the objective of the particular town hall meeting is to give as many people as possible an opportunity to speak, then the attendees can be broken down into smaller discussion groups. Each smaller group, in that case, appoints someone to summarize discussion of their group.\n\nSome have explored alternative formats for town hall meetings, such as an “electronic town hall”. The Congress Foundation commissioned a report on online town hall meetings, which found they grew in size and importance starting in the mid-2000s.\n\nDespite the name town hall, meetings need not take place in a town hall. They commonly take place in a range of venues, including: schools, libraries, municipal buildings, churches, etc. Generally they are held in a public space and there is no charge to attend. In a given district, town hall meetings that are organized by the district's congressional representative are often held in a variety of places across the district.\n\nThe term \"town hall meeting\" is also used to describe informal corporate gatherings held to share information such as business results or personnel changes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15389188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15389188", "title": "Vermont Maple Festival", "text": "Vermont Maple Festival\n\nThe Vermont Maple Festival is a food and arts celebration held at St. Albans in the U.S. state of Vermont. \n\nThe festival is a three-day event held annually over the last weekend in April. During the event, there are exhibits and demonstrations, entertainment, and a craft show all dedicated to maple syrup. It takes place to celebrate the first harvest of the year in Vermont. A pancake breakfast is also held, a parade, antiques show, and the crowning of the festivals' Maple King and Maple Queen. \n\n\n"}
