{"id": "20360435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20360435", "title": "Aaron Edlin", "text": "Aaron Edlin\n\nAaron S. Edlin (born 1967) is a noted expert in law and economics, specializing in antitrust. In 1997–1998, he served in the Clinton White House as Senior Economist within the Council of Economic Advisers focusing on the areas of industrial organization, regulation and antitrust. In 1999, he co-founded the \"Berkeley Electronic Press\", an electronic publishing company that assists with scholarly communication.\n\nEdlin graduated in 1988 \"Summa Cum Laude\" from Princeton University, Woodrow Wilson School Science and Policy Program with an A.B. degree in physics and economics. In 1993, he received a Ph.D. in Economics, and a J.D. from Stanford University.\n\nEdlin became a tenured professor of economics at University of California, Berkeley in 1997 and the following year, he became tenured in the School of Law as well. Since 2005, he has held the Richard W. Jennings '39 Endowed Chair. He has also taught at Harvard Law School, Yale Law School, and Columbia Law School.\n\nHe is a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. From 2000 through 2003, he served on the American Law and Economics Association's board of directors, and again beginning in 2013.\nOther active professional affiliations include American Economic Association, Econometric Society, and American Association of Law Teachers.\n\nAlong with Joseph Stiglitz and J. Bradford DeLong, Edlin is the editor of \"The Economists' Voice\" journal; from 2006 to 2007, he was also president and CEO. He is a member of the editorial boards of \"Journal of Law, Economic, and Organization\" and \"International Review of Law and Economics\"; he is a retired associate editor of \"Journal of Industrial Economics\". With Phillip Areeda and Louis Kaplow, Edlin co-authored \"Antitrust analysis: Problems, text, cases\", one of the leading American casebooks on antitrust. His most recent book, \"The economists' voice: Top economists take on today's problems\" (2008), is a series of essays on the application of economics to public policy issues. Edlin has written numerous articles and contributed to several books.\n\nEdlin lives in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "452160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452160", "title": "Abdul Qadeer Khan", "text": "Abdul Qadeer Khan\n\nAbdul Qadeer Khan, (; ; born 1935 or 1936), known as A. Q. Khan, is a Pakistani nuclear physicist and a metallurgical engineer, who founded the uranium enrichment program for Pakistan's atomic bomb project. AQ Khan founded and established the Kahuta Research Laboratories (KRL) in 1976, serving as both its senior scientist and Chairman until he retired in 2001. Khan was also a figure in other Pakistani national science projects, making research contributions to molecular morphology, the physics of martensite alloys, condensed matter physics, and materials physics.\n\nIn January 2004, the Pakistani government summoned Khan for a debriefing on his active role in nuclear weapons technology proliferation in other countries after the United States provided evidence of it to the Pakistanis. Khan formally admitted his responsibility for these activities a month later. The Pakistani government dismisses allegations that Pakistani authorities sanctioned Khan's activities.\n\nAfter years of official house arrest during and following his debriefing, the Islamabad High Court (IHC) on 6 February 2009 declared Abdul Qadeer Khan to be a free citizen of Pakistan, allowing him free movement inside the country. The verdict was rendered by Chief Justice Sardar Muhammad Aslam. In September 2009, concerned because the decision also ended all security restrictions on Khan, the United States warned that Khan still remained a \"serious proliferation risk\".\n\nKhan was born in 1935 or 1936 in Bhopal. His mother, Zulekha (née Begum), was a housewife. His father, Abdul Ghafoor, was an alumnus of Nagpur University and an academic who served in the Indian Education ministry then permanently settled the family in Bhopal State after he retired in 1935. After the partition of India in 1947, his family emigrated from India to Pakistan in 1952, and settled in Karachi, Sindh. Briefly attending the D.J. Science College, he enrolled at Karachi University in 1956 to study physics. In 1960, he graduated with a degree in physics with a minor in mathematics, while his degree concentration was in solid-state physics.\n\nFor a short time, Khan worked for the city government as an inspector of weights and measures. In 1961, he went to Germany to study metallurgy at the Technical University in Berlin but made a transfer to Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands in 1965. At Delft, he obtained an engineer's degree in technology (equivalent to MS) in 1967 and joined the Catholic University of Leuven for his doctoral studies. Supervised by Martin Brabers at Leuven University, Khan received a D.Eng. degree in metallurgical engineering in 1972. His doctoral thesis included fundamental work on martensite and its extended industrial applications to the field of morphology.\n\nReceiving his doctorate engineering in 1972, Khan joined the senior staff of the Physics Dynamics Research Laboratory in Amsterdam from a recommendation by his mentor, Martin J. Brabers. His initial studies were on the high-strength metals used in the development of centrifuges. Gas centrifuges were first conceived by American physicist Jesse Beams as part of the Manhattan Project but the studies were discontinued in 1944. The Physics Laboratory was a subcontractor for Urenco Group which was operating a uranium-enrichment plant in Almelo, Netherlands. Established in 1970, Urenco employed the centrifuge method to assure a supply of enriched uranium for nuclear power plants in the Netherlands. When Urenco offered him to join the senior scientific staff there, Khan left the Physics Laboratory where he performed physics experiments on uranium metallurgy, to produce reactor-grade uranium usable for light water reactors. Urenco used the Zippe-type gas centrifuges— a method invented by German mechanical engineer Gernot Zippe in the Soviet Union's program. Enrichment of uranium is an extremely difficult physical process, as U exists in natural uranium at a concentration of only 0.7%; Urenco used the Zippe method to separate the fissile isotopes U from non-fissile U by spinning UF gas at up to ~100,000RPM. His pioneering research led to the improvement of the Zippe method, which at that time, was an emerging technology whose publications were classified by the Soviet Union. Khan's leading-edge research in metallurgy brought laurels to Urenco, which had him as one of the most senior scientists at the facility where he researched and studied. His pioneering research greatly improved the technological efficiency of the Zippe method; eventually, Urenco gave Khan access to the blueprints for the Zippe centrifuge to find mathematical solutions for the physics problems in the gas centrifuges.\n\nOn 20 January 1972, President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto approved a crash program to develop an atomic bomb after a seminar – the Multan meeting – with scientists at Multan. Reporting directly to Bhutto, the program was managed by Munir Ahmad Khan, the chairman of the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC); the outcomes of the 1971 war had greatly threatened Pakistan's strategic position. Earlier efforts had attempted Implosion-type nuclear weapons using military-grade plutonium.\n\nBefore 1974 Khan had no knowledge of the program, which calls into question his \"father-of\" claim. Following India's surprise \"Smiling Buddha\" in 1974, Bhutto accelerated Pakistan's effort to attain atomic capability. Sensing the importance of the test, Munir Ahmad launched the secretive Project-706.\n\nAfter learning of the nuclear test, Khan wanted to contribute to the military posture. He approached Pakistan government officials, who dissuaded him, saying it was as \"hard to find\" a job in the PAEC as a \"metallurgist\".\n\nUndaunted, he wrote to Prime Minister Bhutto, highlighting his specific experience, and encouraged him to develop an atomic bomb using military-grade uranium. According to Kuldip Nayyar, although the letter was received by Prime minister Secretariat, Khan was still unknown to the Pakistan government, leading Bhutto to ask the ISI to run a complete background check and prepare an assessment report on him. The ISI assessed him as \"incompetent\" but Bhutto was unsatisfied and eager to know more about him, eventually asking Munir Ahmad to dispatch a PAEC team to meet him. The PAEC team, including Bashiruddin Mahmood, arrived at the Almelo at his family home at night. After an interview, the team returned to Pakistan and Prime Minister Bhutto decided to meet with Khan, and directed a confidential letter to him. Soon after, Khan took a leave from Urenco, and departed for Pakistan in 1974.\n\nIn 1974, Abdul Qadeer Khan went to Pakistan and took a taxi straight to the Prime minister Secretariat. The session with Bhutto was held at midnight and remained under extreme secrecy where Qadeer Khan met with Bhutto, Munir Ahmad, and Mubashir Hassan– the Science Adviser. At this session, he enlightened the importance of uranium as opposed to plutonium, but Bhutto remained unconvinced to adopt uranium instead of plutonium for the development of an atomic bomb. Although Bhutto ended the session quickly, remarking: \"\"He seems to make sense\".\" Early morning the next day another session was held where he focused the discussion on HEU against plutonium with other PAEC officials presented. Even though, he explained to Bhutto why he thought the idea of \"plutonium\" would not work, Qadeer Khan was fascinated by the possibility of atomic bomb. Many of the theorists at that time, including Munir Khan maintained that \"plutonium and the fuel cycle has its significance\", and insisted that with the \"French extraction plant in the offing, Pakistan should stick with its original plan.\" Bhutto did not disagree, but saw the advantage of mounting a parallel effort toward acquiring HEU fuel. At the last session with Zulfikar Bhutto, Khan also advocated for the development of a fused design to compress the single fission element in the metalised gun-type atomic device, which many of his fellow theorists said would be unlikely to work.\n\nIn 1975, Khan finally joined the atomic bomb program, and became a member of the enrichment division at PAEC, collaborating with dr. Khalil Qureshi– a physical chemist. Calculations performed by him were valuable contributions to centrifuges and a vital link to nuclear weapon research. He continued to push his ideas for uranium methods even though they had a low priority, with most efforts still aimed to produce military-grade plutonium. Because of his interest in uranium, and his frustration at having been passed over for director of the uranium division (the job was instead given to Bashiruddin Mahmood), Khan refused to engage in further calculations and caused tensions with other researchers. He became highly unsatisfied and bored with the research led by Mahmood; finally, he submitted a critical report to Bhutto, in which he explained that the \"enrichment program\" was nowhere near success.\n\nPrime Minister Bhutto sensed great danger as the scientists were split between military-grade uranium and plutonium. Therefore, he called Khan for a meeting and with the backing of Bhutto, Khan took over the enrichment division from Bashiruddin Mahmood at PAEC; thus separating it into founding the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL). Wanting no PAEC involvement, Khan's request to work with the Corps of Engineers was granted by the Pakistan government in 1976. The Engineer-in-Chief directed Brigadier Zahid Ali Akbar of Corps of Engineers to work with Qadeer Khan in ERL. The Corps of Engineers and Brigadier Akbar quickly acquired the lands of the village of Kahuta for the project. The military realised the dangers of atomic experiments being performed in populated areas and thus remote Kahuta was considered an ideal location for research. Bhutto would subsequently promote Brigadier Zahid Akbar to Major-General and handed over the directorship of the ERL, with Qadeer Khan being its senior scientist.\n\nOn the other hand, the PAEC did not forgo the electromagnetic isotope separation research and a parallel program was conducted by theoretical physicist G.D. Alam at Air Research Laboratories (ARL) located at Chaklala PAF base, though G.D. Allam had not seen a centrifuge, but only had a rudimentary knowledge of the Manhattan Project.\n\nAt first, the ERL suffered many setbacks, and relied heavily on the knowledge from URENCO brought by Qadeer Khan. Meanwhile, in April 1976, theorist GD Allam accomplished a great feat by successfully rotating the first generation centrifuges to ~30,000 RPM. When the news reached Qadeer Khan, he immediately requested to Bhutto for G.D. Alam's assistance which was granted by the PAEC, dispatching a team of scientists including GD Alam to ERL. At ERL, Khan joined the team of theoretical physicists headed by theorist G.D. Alam, working on the physics problems involving the differential equations in the centripetal forces and angular momentum calculations in the ultra-centrifuges. On 4 June 1978, the enrichment program became fully functional after G.D. Alam succeeded in separating the U and U isotopes in an important experiment in which A.Q Khan also took part. Contrary to his expectation, the military approved to the appointment of Major-General Zahid Ali as the scientific director of the entire uranium division.\n\nIn 1981, when General Akbar was posted back to combat assignments, Khan took over the operations of ERL as its interim director and senior scientist. In 1983, his appointment as director of ERL was personally approved by President Zia-ul-Haq who renamed the ERL after him. Despite his role, Khan was never in charge of the actual development of atomic bombs, mathematical and physics calculations, and eventual weapons testing. Outgoing General Zahid Ali recommended Munir Ahmad appointment as the scientific director of the atomic bomb project. This appointment came as a shock to Khan and surprised many in the government and the military as Munir Ahmad was not known to be aligned to conservative military. The government itself restricted to provide full scientific data of atomic projects and had him required the government security clearance and clarifications of his visits of such secret weapons development sites, which he would be visiting with senior active duty officers.\n\nIn 1984, the KRL claimed to have carried out its own cold test of a nuclear weapon, which was unsuccessful while PAEC under Munir Khan had already carried out another test in 1983, codenamed: \"Kirana-I\".\n\nPAEC's senior scientists who worked with him and under him remember him as \"an egomaniacal lightweight\" given to exaggerating his scientific achievements in centrifuges. At one point, Munir Khan said that, \"most of the scientists who work on the development of atomic bomb projects were extremely \"serious\". They were sobered by the weight of what they don't know; Abdul Qadeer Khan is a showman.\" During the timeline of atomic bomb project, Qadeer Khan pushed his research into rigorous Theoretical Physics calculations and topics to compete, but yet failed to impress his fellow theorists at PAEC, generally at the physics community. In later years, Abdul Qadeer Khan became a staunch critic of Munir Ahmad Khan's research in physics, and on many different occasions tried unsuccessfully to belittle Munir Khan's role in the atomic bomb projects. Their scientific rivalry became public and widely popular in the physics community and seminars held in the country over the years.\n\nMany of his theorists were unsure that gaseous uranium would be feasible on time without the centrifuges, since Alam had notified to PAEC that the \"blueprints were incomplete\" and \"lacked the scientific information needed even for the basic gas-centrifuges.\" However, calculations by Tasneem Shah, and confirmation by Alam showed the possibility of improvise transformation of different centrifugal methods. Against popular perception, the URENCO's blueprints were based on civilian reactor technology; the blueprints were filled with serious technical errors. Its SWU rate was extremely low that it would have to be rotated for thousands RPMs on the cost of taxpayer's millions of dollars, Allam maintained. Calculations and innovation came from the team of his fellow theorists, including mathematician Tasnim Shah, and headed by theorist G.D. Alam, who solved the centrifugal problems and developed powerful versions of the centrifuges. Scientists have claimed that Qadeer Khan would have never gotten any closer to success without the assistance of Alam and others. The issue is controversial; Qadeer Khan maintained to his biographer that when it came to defending the \"centrifuge approach\" and really putting work into it, both Shah and Alam refused.\n\nIn 1998, India conducted the series of nuclear tests at the site located in Pokhran, Rajasthan. Political momentum in Pakistan began to build up on conservative Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by the influential political circle to authorize the nuclear testing program. Together with PAEC, Khan repeatedly lobbied in seeking the permission in favor of the tests. At the NSC meetings with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Khan even maintained that the tests could be performed at the controlled test site in Kahuta. But this was rebuffed by the military and Prime Minister Sharif ordered Ishfaq Ahmad of PAEC to perform the tests in Chagai due to their long experience of performing the tests in the past.\n\nWhen the news reached him, a furious Qadeer Khan was badly upset and frustrated with the Prime minister's decision. Without wasting a minute, Khan drove to Joint Staff Headquarters where he met with the Chairman joint chiefs General Jehängir Karamat, lodging a strong protest. General Karamat thereupon called the Prime minister, and decided that KRL scientists, including Qadeer Khan, would also be involved in the test preparations and present at the time of testing alongside those of the PAEC. It was the KRL's HEU that ultimately claimed the successful detonation of Pakistan's first nuclear devices on 28 May 1998, under codename \"Chagai-I\". Two days later, on 30 May, a small team of scientists belonging to PAEC, under the leadership of Samar Mubarakmand, detonated a plutonium nuclear device, codename \"Chagai-II\". The sum of forces and yields produced by devices were around ~40.0kt of nuclear force, with the largest weapon producing around 35–36kn of force. In contrast, the single plutonium device had produced the yield of ~20.0kt of nuclear force and had a much bigger impact than uranium devices.\n\nMany of Qadeer Khan's colleagues were irritated that he seemed to enjoy taking full credit for something he had only a small part in, and in response, he authored an article, \"Torch-Bearers\", which appeared in \"The News International\", emphasising that he was not alone in the weapon's development. He made an attempt to work on the Teller design for the hydrogen bomb, but PAEC had objected the idea as it went against government policy. Known for taking full credit of something he had only small contribution, he often got engrossed in projects which were theoretically interesting but practically unfeasible.\n\nProliferation network was established to acquire knowledge on electronics materials for centrifuge technology at the ERL by Khan, in the 1970s. This atomic network was subsequently used by Libya, North Korea, Iran and China as media reports first surfaced on trade negotiations between China and Pakistan for the sale of (UF) gas and HEU. Allegations were made that \"Khan paid visit to China to provide technical support to Chinese nuclear program when building a HEU plant in China's Hanzhong city. The Chinese government offered nuclear material from their side, but Pakistan refused, calling it a \"gift of gesture\" to China. According to an independent IISS report, Zia had given a \"free hand\" to Khan and given unlimited import and export access to him. The report showed that his acquisition activities were on the whole not supervised by Pakistan governmental authorities; his activities went undetected for several years.\n\nPakistan's scientific activities rapidly attracted the attention of the outside world, which quickly suspected outside assistance. Suspicions soon fell on Khan's knowledge obtained during his years working in the Urenco Group. In 1983, Khan was sentenced \"in absentia\" to four years in prison by the local court in Amsterdam for attempted espionage. When the news reached to Pakistan, Barrister SM Zafar immediately travelled to Amsterdam and filed a petition at the Court. Zafar teamed up with Qadeer Khan's old mentor professor Martin Brabers and his Leuven University to prepare evidence for the case. At the trial, Zafar and Martin argued that the technical information supplied by Khan were commonly found and taught in undergraduate and doctoral physics at the university. The sentence was overturned on appeal on a legal technicality by the Court. Reacting on the suspicion of espionage, Qadeer Khan stated: \"I had requested for it as we had no library of our own at KRL, at that time\". He strongly rejected any suggestion at Pakistan's proliferation attempts and stressed: \"All the research work [at Kahuta] was the result of our innovation and struggle. We did not receive any technical \"know-how\" from abroad, but we cannot reject the use of books, magazines, and research papers in this connection.\"\n\nIn a local interview given in 1987 he stated that: \"the U.S. had been well aware of the success of the atomic quest of Pakistan.\" Allegedly confirming the speculation of export of nuclear technology, the Pakistan Government sharply denied all claims made by Qadeer Khan. Following this, Khan was summoned for a quick meeting with President Zia-ul-Haq, who used a \"tough tone\" and strongly urged Khan to cease any information \"he'd been providing in statements, promising severe repercussions if he continued to leak harmful information against the Pakistan Government.\" Subsequently, he made several contacts with foreign newspapers, denying any and all statements he had previously released. After U.S. terminating major aid to Pakistan, Benazir government reached an understanding with the United States to \"freeze\" and \"capped\" the program to LEU which is up to 3–5%. Later, the program was restored back to 90% HEU in 1990, and on July 1996, he maintained, \"at no stage was the program of producing 90% weapons-grade enriched uranium ever stopped\".\n\nTrade and diplomatic relations were established between Pakistan and North Korea since Prime Minister Zulfikar Bhutto's period in the 1970s. After Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's state visit to North Korea in 1990, it was reported that the highly sensitive information was being exported to North Korea in exchange for missile technologies. On multiple occasions, Khan alleged that Benazir Bhutto had \"issued clear directions\" for that matter. In 1993, downloaded secret information on uranium enrichment was delivered to North Korea in exchange for information on developing ballistic missiles.\n\nIn 1987, Iran wanted to purchase a fuel-cycle technology from Pakistan, but it was rebuffed. Zia decided that the civil nuclear co-operation with Iran was purely a \"civil matter\" and part of maintaining good relations with Tehran; Zia did not further approve any nuclear deals, but Khan passed over a sensitive report on centrifuges in 1987–89. Only in 2003 were the nature of such agreements made public when the Iranian government came under intense pressure from the Western world to fully disclose its nuclear program.\n\nAccepting the tough IAEA inspections, it revealed that Iran had established a large enrichment facility using centrifuge based on the Urenco, which had been obtained \"from a foreign intermediary in 1989\". The Iranians supplied the names of their suppliers and the international inspectors quickly identified the Iranian gas centrifuges as \"Pak-1\"'s–the gas centrifuges invented by Khan during the atomic bomb project.\n\nIn 2003, the IAEA successfully dismantled Libya's nuclear program after persuading Libya to roll back its program to have the economic sanctions lifted. The Libyan officials turned over the names of its suppliers which also included Khan. The same year, the Bush administration launched its investigation on Khan's leak in 2001 and 2002, focusing on Khan's personal role.\n\nLibyan government officials were quoted saying that Libya bought nuclear components from various black market dealers, including Pakistan. US officials who visited the Libyan plants reported that the centrifuges were very similar to the \"Pak-1\" centrifuges in Iran. By the time evidence against Khan had surfaced, he was a public icon in the Pakistan and the government's Science Adviser. His vigorous advocacy for atom bombs and missiles became an embarrassment to the Pakistan government. On 31 January 2004, Khan was dismissed from his post, and the government launched an investigation of the allegations surrounding him. The \"Wall Street Journal\" quoted unnamed \"senior Pakistan government officials\" as conceding that Khan's dismissal from KRL had been prompted by US suspicions. On 4 February 2004, Khan appeared on state-owned media Pakistan Television (PTV) and confessed to running a proliferation ring, and transferring technology to Iran between 1989 and 1991, and to North Korea and Libya between 1991 and 1997.\n\nAlthough Khan was not arrested, national security hearings were launched by the joint law officers from JAG Branch. The debriefings implicated the former chief of army staff general Mirza Beg. The \"Wall Street Journal\" quoted US government officials saying that Qadeer Khan had told the military lawyers that General Beg had authorized the transfers to Iran. According to IISS reports, for several years Khan had security clearances over import and export operations which were largely unsupervised and undetected. Khan's security has been tightened since the 1970s, and he never travelled alone; always accompanied by the secret agents of the Pakistani military establishment.\n\nOn 5 February 2004, President Musharraf pardoned him as he feared that the issue would be politicised by his rivals. The Constitution allows the President of Pakistan to issue presidential pardons. The hearings of Khan badly damaged the political credibility of President Musharraf and the image of the United States. While, the Pakistan media aired sympathising documentaries, the political parties on the other hand used that issue politically to the fall of Musharraf. The US Embassy had pointed out that the successor of Musharraf could be less friendly towards the United States; this restrained the United States from applying further \"direct\" pressure on Musharraf due to a strategic calculation that may led the loss of Musharraf as an ally.\n\nStrong calls were made by many senior IAEA officials, U.S. and European Commission politicians, have Khan interrogated by IAEA investigators, given the lingering scepticism about the disclosures made by Pakistan regarding Khan's activities. All such requests were however strongly dismissed by the Prime minister Shaukat Aziz and the Pakistan government, terming it as \"case closed\".\n\nIn December 2006, the WMDC headed by Hans Blix, a former IAEA chief and UNMOVIC chief; said in a report that Abdul Qadeer Khan could not have acted alone \"without the awareness of the Pakistan Government\". Blix's statement was also reciprocated by the United States government, with one anonymous American government intelligence official quoting to independent journalist and author Seymour Hersh: \"Suppose if Edward Teller had suddenly decided to spread nuclear technology around the world. Could he really do that without the American government knowing?\".\n\nIn 2007, the hearings were suspended when Musharraf was succeeded by General Ashfaq Pervez Kiani as chief of army staff. Officially, all security hearings were terminated by the Chairman Joint Chiefs General Tariq Majid on November 2008; Khan was never officially charged with espionage activities nor any criminal charges were pressed against him. The military maintained that the debriefings were the process of questioning Khan to learn and dismantle the atomic ring. The details of debriefings were marked as \"classified\" and were quickly wrapped up quietly following the fall of General Pervez Musharraf.\n\nIn 2008, in an interview, Khan laid the whole blame on Musharraf, and labelled Musharraf as a \"Big Boss\" for proliferation deals. In 2012, Khan later implicated Benazir Bhutto in proliferation matters, pointing out to the fact as she had issued \"clear directions in thi[s] regard.\" Domestically it is believed by some that Khan was made a scapegoat by President Musharraf to prove his uttermost loyalty to the West whose support was urgently and desperately needed for the survival of his presidency. It was done so to protect the names of those high-ranking military officials and civilian politicians, under whom Musharraf served in the past.\n\nControversial, Qadeer Khan was ostracised by much of the scientific community, but still quite welcome in military science circles. In 2001, Musharraf promoted Abdul Qadeer Khan to Science Adviser to the President.\n\nAbdul Qadeer Khan remains a popular figure and many saw him as national hero of Pakistan. He often served as Pakistan's extreme national pride, and his long association with science bought Khan a tremendous popularity. In the late 1980s, Abdul Qadeer Khan promoted the funding of the Pakistan's integrated space weapons project and vigorously supported, and supervised the Hatf-I and \"Ghauri-I\" program.\nIn a television speech in 2007, Prime minister Shaukat Aziz paid tribute to Abdul Qadeer Khan and while commenting on last part of his speech, Aziz stressed: \"(...)...The services of (nuclear) scientist... Dr. (Abdul) Qadeer Khan are \"unforgettable\" for the country..(..)...\". In 2012, Abdul Qadeer Khan announced to form a political party \"Movement to Protect Pakistan\".\n\nKhan secured the fellowship and the presidency of Pakistan Academy of Sciences, whose membership is restricted to scientists. Through the Pakistan Academy of Sciences, Khan published two books on metallurgy and material science. Khan began to publish his articles from KRL in the 1980s, and began to organise conferences on Metallurgy by inviting scientists from all over the world. Gopal S. Upadhyaya, an Indian nuclear scientist and metallurgist as well, attended Khan's conference in the 1980s and met him along with Kuldip Nayar. In Upadhyaya's words, Khan was a proud Pakistani who wanted to show the world that scientists from Pakistan are inferior to no one in the world.\n\nHe contributed to the Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology when he served as the Project-Director of this university. After the construction of institute Khan took the Professorship of Physics while also serving as the Chairman of Department of Metallurgy and Materials Science. Later, Khan helped established the A. Q. Khan Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering at the Karachi University.\n\nDuring his time in the atomic bomb project, he pioneered research in the thermal quantum field and the condensed physics, while co-authored articles on chemical reactions of the highly unstable isotopic particles in the controlled physical system. He maintains his stance to use of controversial technological solutions to both military and civilian problems, including the use of military technologies for the civilian welfare. Khan also remained a vigorous advocate for a nuclear testing program and defence strength through nuclear weapons. He has justified the Pakistan's nuclear deterrence program as sparing his country the fate of Iraq or Libya. In his recent interview, Abdul Qadeer Khan maintained that he has no regrets for what he did and maintained that:\n\nAbdul Qadeer Khan faced heated and intense criticism from his fellow theorists whom he had worked with in the atomic bomb project, most notably theorist Pervez Hoodbhoy. In addition, Qadeer Khan's false claims that he was the \"father\" of the atomic bomb project since its inception and his personal attacks on Munir Khan caused even greater animosity by his fellow theorists, and most particularly, within the general physics community towards Qadeer Khan. Due to public promotion by the Pakistan media, he remains one of the best known but also most controversial scientists in the country.\n\nHe is the recipient of the following honours:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1351235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351235", "title": "Al-Burooj", "text": "Al-Burooj\n\nSūrat al-Burūj (, \"The Great Star\") is the eighty-fifth chapter (sura) of the Quran with 22 verses.\n\nThe word \"Al-Burooj\" in the first verse is translated to stars, mainly 'great stars'.\n\nThe surah opens with an oath by a heaven full of stars: by the sky containing great stars. The Arabic word Al-Burooj is interpreted in several ways. The word Al-Burooj is the plural of Burj which means fort or tower; something that can be seen from a distance. Ibn 'Abbas, Mujahid, Ad-Dahhaj, Al-Hasan, Qatadah and As-Suddi said Burj means stars. Ibn Jareer chose the view that it means the positions of the sun and the moon, which are twelve Burooj. The sun travels through each one of these Burj in one month. The moon travels through each one of these Burj in two-and-a-third days, which makes a total of twenty-eight positions, and it is hidden for two nights [making a month of 30 approximately].\n\nInterpreters give several different versions of the story to be referred to in verses 4–8: persecution of Christians by Dhu Nuwas in Yemen, persecutions by Nebuchadnezzar, and people of the trench. It has been documented that Dun Nuwas burned 20,000 Christians alive in a burning trench because they refused to convert to Judaism.\nQuranic exegetes produced different interpretations of the term 'preserved tablet' in verse 22. In this surah the relationship of Quran to the 'Preserved Tablet' is correlated with the relation of the stars 'Al-Buruj' to the heavens 'Al-Sama'. Mu'tazilites argued that revelations were created initially in the preserved tablet. This seems to be close to another term, 'Mother of all books' (\"umm al-kitab\"), mentioned in 13:39 and 43:4.\n\nThe subject matter itself indicates that this Surah was sent down at Makkah in the period when persecution of the Muslims was at its climax and the disbelievers of Makkah were trying their utmost by tyranny and coercion to turn away the new converts from Islam.\n\nIts theme is to warn the disbelievers of the evil consequences of the persecution and tyranny that they were perpetrating on the converts to Islam, and to console the believers, so as to say: \"If you remain firm and steadfast against tyranny and coercion, you will be rewarded richly for it, and Allah will certainly avenge Himself on your persecutors on your behalf.\"\n\nIn this connection, the story of the People of the Ditch (\"ashab al-ukhdud\") had been related, who were a group of people who had burnt believers to death by casting them into pits full of fire. By means of this story the believers and the disbelievers have been taught a few lessons. Firstly, that just as the People of the Ditch became worthy of Allah's curse and punishment due to their oppression and tyranny, the chiefs of Makkah are also becoming worthy of it. Secondly, that just as the believers at that time had willingly accepted to sacrifice their lives by being burnt to death in the pits of fire instead of turning away from the faith, so also the believers now should endure every persecution but should never give up their faith. Thirdly, that God's acknowledging Whom displeases the disbelievers and is urged on by the believers, is Dominant and Master of the Kingdom of the earth and heavens; He is self-praiseworthy and is watching what the two groups are striving for. Therefore, it is certain that the disbelievers will be punished in Hell for their oppression, tyranny, and cruelties, unless they have asked for sincere repentance. Likewise, it is also certain that those who believe and do good deeds will go to Paradise, and this indeed is the supreme success. Then the disbelievers have been warned, so as to say: \"God's grip is very severe. If you are proud of the strength of your leaders, then you should know that the leaders in the time of the Pharaoh and Thamud were even stronger and more numerous. Therefore, you should learn a lesson from the fate they met. God's power has so encompassed you that you cannot escape His encirclement, and the Qur'an that you are bent upon belying, is unchangeable: it is inscribed in the Preserved Tablet, which cannot be corrupted in any way.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11348580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11348580", "title": "Arne Johan Vetlesen", "text": "Arne Johan Vetlesen\n\nArne Johan Vetlesen (born 10 September 1960) is a Norwegian professor of philosophy at the University of Oslo, who concentrates on the topic of ethics and social philosophy.\n\nHe took the cand.mag. (similar to BA) degree in sociology and anthropology, before studying at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main from 1985 to 1990. He took the dr.philos. degree at the University of Oslo in 1993. Before becoming a full professor at the University of Oslo in 1998, Vetlesen worked as a research fellow and associate professor. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHis books in English include \"The Denial of Nature\" (2015), \"A Philosophy of Pain\" (2009), \"Evil and Human Agency\" (2005), \"Perception, Empathy, and Judgment\" (1994), and \"Closeness\" (1997).\n\nEvil and Human Agency is a 2005 book written by Arne Johan Vetlesen. Vetlesen combines philosophical, sociological, and psychological approaches in order to contend that evil is defined by its intentionality and harmfulness and to investigate why people commit acts of organized evil. He uses Hannah Arendt and Zygmunt Bauman as his main sources.\n\nVetlesen focuses on large-scale acts of evil such as the Holocaust and former Yugoslavia’s “ethnic cleansing” in order to investigate how human agency allows an individual to cause harm to another intentionally and how personal intention turns into a collective evil. He argues that collective evil stems from a combination of “character, situation, and structure.” Vetlesen poses an important distinction between immorality and evil. While many acts may be considered immoral, only acts that harm another with intentionality are considered acts of evil. He aims to push away what he considers to be the current “shallow” understanding of evil that observes an immoral action’s bad effects or consequences by instead focusing on what causes someone to deliberately inflict harm or pain. In the first three chapters, Vetlesen analyzes Bauman’s Modernity and the Holocaust, Hannah Arendt’s ideas on “the banality of evil” and Adolf Eichmann, and C. Fred Alford’s theories on the individual desire to commit evil. He focuses on theories of collective evil by detailing former Yugoslavia’s “ethnic cleansing.”\n"}
{"id": "8582624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8582624", "title": "Beyond Belief: Science, Religion, Reason and Survival", "text": "Beyond Belief: Science, Religion, Reason and Survival\n\nBeyond Belief: Science, Religion, Reason and Survival, the first of The Science Network's annual Beyond Belief symposia, held from November 5–7, 2006 at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California, was described by \"The New York Times\", as \"a free-for-all on science and religion,\" which seemed at times like \"the founding convention for a political party built on a single plank: in a world dangerously charged with ideology, science needs to take on an evangelical role, vying with religion as teller of the greatest story ever told.\"\n\nThe event was conceived as a response to the efforts of the Templeton Foundation to reconcile science with religion, according to its underwriter Robert Zeps, who told an interviewer, \"I am not anti-Templeton in the sense of funding scientists to say mean things about religion. I simply believe that all study should be free of any particular agenda besides learning...Most take the position that the religious right are just nuts who are loud but frankly undeserving of a response...I believe that Bill Gates and Steve Jobs and pretty much all of the tech age wealth is firmly on the side of science and they need to step up and say so in a way that is heard by the anti-science lobby.\"\n\nMany conference participants leveled strong criticism at the activities of the Templeton Foundation, charging that it attempted to blur the line between science and religion, and that it funded \"garbage research\" aimed at showing a healing effect of prayer. The Templeton foundation has funded numerous conferences intended to \"smooth over the differences between science and religion\" and portray them as metaphysically equivalent.\n\nThe conference devoted its final session to \"the negative effects of introducing religion into medicine.\" A Templeton spokesperson responded by warning against “commercialized ideological scientism,\" the effort to profit from promoting science as the only guide to truth. \n\nNew Scientist summed up the topics to be discussed as a list of three questions:\n\n\n\nMost participants were critical of religion and its effects upon public opinion, scientific inquiry, and policy. Steven Weinberg said, \"the world needs to wake up from its long nightmare of religious belief.” Sam Harris stated that science was about \"intellectual honesty.\" Richard Dawkins expressed more forceful views, calling religion \"brainwashing\" and \"child abuse.\"\n\nLawrence Krauss argued that science could not necessarily disprove the existence of god; Francisco Ayala argued that people need \"meaning and purpose and life.\"\n\nEmory anthropologist Melvin Konner condemned what he saw as overly simplistic representations of religion by Dawkins and others present. He said that the event came to resemble a \"den of vipers” debating whether to \"bash religion with a crowbar or only with a baseball bat?”\n\n"}
{"id": "487967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487967", "title": "Boyle Lectures", "text": "Boyle Lectures\n\nThe Boyle Lectures were named after Robert Boyle, son of Richard Boyle, 1st Earl of Cork, and a prominent natural philosopher of the 17th century. Under the terms of his will Boyle endowed a series of lectures or sermons (originally eight each year) which were to serve as a public forum in which to consider the relationship between Christianity and the new natural philosophy (what we today term 'science') then emerging in European society.\n\nThe first such lecture was given in 1692 by Richard Bentley to whom Isaac Newton wrote: Sir, When I wrote my Treatise about our System, I had an Eye upon such Principles as might work with considering Men, for the Belief of a Deity; nothing can rejoice me more than to find it useful for that Purpose. \n\nThe lecturers were specifically charged to prove the truth of the Christian religion against infidels, without descending to any controversies among Christians; and to answer new difficulties, scruples, etc. Some lecturers targeted Christian Deism. A learned theologian within the Bills of Mortality, was to be elected for a term, not exceeding three years, by Thomas Tenison (later Archbishop of Canterbury), and three others. To support the lectures, Boyle assigned the rent of his house in Crooked Lane. But the fund proving precarious, the salary was ill-paid. To remedy this, Archbishop Tenison procured a yearly stipend of 50 pounds, forever, to be paid quarterly, charged on a farm in the parish of Brill, Buckinghamshire.\n\nThe Boyle lectures were revived in 2004 at the Anglican church of St Mary-le-Bow by Michael Byrne. They now take place annually and are administered by a board whose members include John Boyle, 15th Earl of Cork; Robert Boyle; Julian Tregoning; David Vermont; George R. Bush; John Hedley Brooke; Alister McGrath; Russell Re Manning; and Michael Byrne (Convenor). A book to mark the 10th anniversary of the revived series was edited by Russell Re Manning and Michael Byrne and published by SCM Press in 2013 as 'Science and Religion in the Twenty-First Century: The Boyle Lectures 2004-2013'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6010929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010929", "title": "Brian O'Shaughnessy (philosopher)", "text": "Brian O'Shaughnessy (philosopher)\n\nBrian Joseph O'Shaughnessy (10 September 1925 – 7 July 2010) was an Australian philosopher of mind, who lived in London and taught at King's College London. He published influential papers on the nature of physical action and the will, at a time when this was quite unfashionable.\n\nHe was born in Kew, a suburb of Melbourne in Australia, where his father was a doctor. He studied at Xavier College and then attended Melbourne University, firstly studying engineering before changing to philosophy. He graduated in 1950 and then went to England to continue his studies at Oxford University. He is buried in Highgate Cemetery in north London in the first section on the left immediately upon entering the Eastern Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "34282681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34282681", "title": "Contemporary ethics", "text": "Contemporary ethics\n\nEthics is, in general terms, the study of right and wrong. It can look descriptively at moral behaviour and judgements; it can give practical advice (normative ethics), or it can analyse and theorise about the nature of morality and ethics.\n\nContemporary study of ethics has many links with other disciplines in philosophy itself and other sciences. Normative ethics has declined, while meta-ethics is increasingly followed. Abstract theorizing has in many areas been replaced by experience-based research.\n\nPsychology, sociology, politics, medicine and neurobiology are areas which have helped and been helped in progress in ethics. Within philosophy, epistemology (or the study of how we know) has drawn closer to ethics. This is in part due to the recognition that knowledge, like value and goodness, can be seen as a normative concept. The traditional analyses and definitions of knowledge have been shown to be unsound by the Gettier problem.\n\nNew interest has flourished in meta-ethics. This has in recent years developed as a recognised category proceeding from the work of Hume, G. E. Moore and the error theories of J. L. Mackie who seeks a real basis, if any, for talk of values and right and wrong. Mackie is sceptical about solving the dilemma posed by the distinction between values and facts.\n\nThe dominance of reason has come under increasing challenge from various quarters. Heidegger's work has become increasingly translated and interpreted in the Anglo-American sphere and the wisdom of always following reason is widely questioned.\n\nThe ethics of care, and environmental ethics are other flourishing areas of research. These point to a general increasing cultural awareness of the hitherto dominance of reason and male based values in society rather than a relational, contextual and communitarian view of the social world. Reason and emotion are seen as more equal partners in human actions \n\nThere remain major divergences of perspective, for example between continental and analytic approaches, and process/ pragmatism vs logical, \"a priori\" approaches.\n\nEdmund Gettier wrote a short but influential article showing that knowledge is not captured by a traditionally accepted reason based definitions. Pragmatism, and process philosophy in general, is increasingly adopted as a response to a constantly changing understanding of a dynamic world, both physically and in the realms of experiment and investigation.\n\nMackie (1977) states that increasing secularisation has meant that religion is not seen by many as the ground for deciding how we should act. Quine's critique of the analytic–synthetic distinction has implications for morality (for example in the work of Kant). Logic is a diverse and apparently flexible branch of thought, rather than being thought to underlie mathematics and reasoning, as previously.\n\nPostmodernism and its aftermath has left behind the aspiration for an overarching theory of ethics, single ideas which were reputed to explain or justify whole aspects of human experience and knowledge, such as Marxism, religion, Freudianism or nationalism. Writers as diverse as Jean-François Lyotard and J L Mackie (1977) point to the decline in grand narratives. Mackie (1977), in particular, saw this decline as undermining the legitimacy of traditional morality.\n\nThis has stimulated the development of both error theory and meta-ethics as moves to either review or to strengthen the basis of our inherited value systems. As a result, there is growing acceptance of the plausibility of making decisions based on the context, and the particular situation being considered, rather than by reference to principles. This move away from grand theory confirms earlier views of Adam Smith, who held that moral theories derived from moral actions rather than conversely.\n\nMajor challenges for ethics include the fact/value distinction, the error theory which seems to undermine the reality of moral claims and apparent relativism across cultures and eras. Some feel that the persistence of problems in ethics theory has led to an overall decline in the interest in working in the field of pure ethics as more opportunities arise in applied ethics and meta-ethics. Stephen Darwall \"et al\" referred to \"a genuinely new period in twentieth century ethics, the vigorous revival of metaethics coincidental with the emergence .. of a criticism of the enterprise of moral theory itself\".\n"}
{"id": "3006519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3006519", "title": "David Hugh Mellor", "text": "David Hugh Mellor\n\nDavid Hugh Mellor (; born 10 July 1938), also known as Hugh Mellor and usually cited as D. H. Mellor, is a British philosopher. He is a former Professor of Philosophy and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, now Professor Emeritus, of Cambridge University.\n\nMellor was born in London, and educated at Manchester Grammar School. After studying chemical engineering at Pembroke College, Cambridge (BA 1960) and the University of Minnesota (MSc 1962), he took up philosophy. \n\nHis primary work is metaphysics, although his philosophical interests include philosophy of science, philosophy of mind, probability, time and causation, laws of nature and properties, and decision theory. Mellor was Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cambridge and Fellow of Darwin College from 1971 to 2005. As a professor he was the subject of extensive media coverage as the main opponent of the conferment of an honorary degree in philosophy to the French philosopher Jacques Derrida.\n\nHe was president of the Aristotelian Society from 1992 to 1993, a member of the Humanist Philosophers' Group of the British Humanist Association and Honorary Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities. He was a Fellow of the British Academy between 1983 and 2008. In retirement Mellor now holds the title of Emeritus Professor.\n\nMellor is also an amateur theatre actor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "858285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858285", "title": "Dirk Verhofstadt", "text": "Dirk Verhofstadt\n\nDirk Verhofstadt (b. Dendermonde 1955) is a Belgian social liberal (Rawlsian) theorist and younger brother of former Belgian Prime Minister and ALDE European leader Guy Verhofstadt. He has a keen interest in political philosophy, and his philosophical outlook is influenced by Karl Popper, John Stuart Mill, Cesare Beccaria, Thomas Paine, Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum. \n\nHe graduated in law and press- and communication sciences, and obtained a PhD in moral philosophy at the University of Ghent. He is professor \"Media and ethics\" at the University of Ghent.\n\nOn 1 July 2010 he obtained the degree of Doctor of Moral Science at the University of Ghent with his doctoral dissertation \"Pius XII and the extermination of the Jews. A moral and historical research into the moral responsibility of Pope Pius XII regarding the Final Solution to the Jewish Question.\"\n\nHe is a member of Liberales, an independent think tank within the liberal movement. Its members consider liberalism as a progressive movement supporting individual freedom, justice and human rights. Liberales reacts against what it calls \"narrow minded conservatism\" related to social economic, ecological and ethical issues supported by \"compartmentalized\" parties and structures. \n\nHis thought is believed to have influenced the VLD in its shift from the center-right to the center-left in the late 1990s and early 2000s (decade) (mostly under the leadership of his brother Guy).\n\nWith his book \"Het menselijk liberalisme\" (Human Liberalism) he inspires politicians in Belgian liberal parties as well as in the Dutch parties Volkspartij voor Vrijheid en Democratie and Democraten 66. He defends liberalism against attacks by anti-globalists, by stating that liberalism implies / should imply solidarity and that green politics is not contradictory to liberalism. He wrote the books \"Pleidooi voor het individualisme\" (A Plea for Individualism) and \"De derde feministische golf\" (The Third Feminist Wave), much of it focusing on Islamic feminism and its impact in Europe. This book contains exclusive interviews with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Irshad Manji, Naima El Bezaz, , and Yasmine Allas. \n\nOn 26 September 2008 he released his new book \"Pius XII and the extermination of the Jews\" in the Dutch language. In this book he examines the position of Pacelli, the later Pius XII, towards Adolf Hitler’s seizure of power, the downfall of the Catholic Zentrumspartei, the Reichskonkordat between Nazi-Germany and the Vatican, the encyclical Mit brennender Sorge (‘With Burning Concern’), paganism, the national-socialist education programs, the ‘T4-program’ (the murder of physically and mentally handicapped persons), the invasion of Poland, Operation Barbarossa, the Jews in the Netherlands, priest-president Jozef Tiso of Slovakia, the Ustasha in Independent State of Croatia, the deportation of Jews from Rome, the Hungarian Holocaust, the help offered to war criminals, the resistance against Nazism, the alleged refusal of the Church to \"give back Jewish\" children who had been in hiding, the failures of the Allies, alleged antisemitism after the Holocaust, and the moral question of alleged guilt of the Church and the pope. \n\nVerhofstadt has often collaborated with Dutch jurist and philosopher Paul Cliteur.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5745524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745524", "title": "Emmanuel Chukwudi Eze", "text": "Emmanuel Chukwudi Eze\n\nEmmanuel Chukwudi Eze (18 January 196330 December 2007) was a Nigerian-born American philosopher. Eze was a specialist in postcolonial philosophy. He wrote as well as edited influential postcolonial histories of philosophy in Africa, Europe, and the Americas. Influences in his own work include Paulin Hountondji, Richard Rorty, David Hume, and Immanuel Kant.\n\nEze was most recently Associate Professor of Philosophy at DePaul University, where he also edited the journal Philosophia Africana . He died on December 30, 2007 in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania after a short illness.\n\nEze was born to Nigerian parents, Daniel and Rebecca (who are Igbo and devout Catholics), in Agbokete, in what was Northern Region of Nigeria. Because of his parents' ethnicity and religion they fled the North during the Nigerian Civil War to Nsukka, in the eastern part of the country.\n\nEze was educated by Jesuits in colleges in Benin City, Nigeria and Kimwenza, Zaire (now Democratic Republic of Congo). He attended St. Patrick’s Elementary School in Iheakpu-Awka from 1970 to 1976. In 1982 he graduated from Igbo-Eze Secondary School. From September of the same year he worked as Clerk at the Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture in Funtua.\n\nIn 1983 Eze resigned the job and enrolled at St. Ignatius Jesuit Novitiate in Benin City. From 1985 to 1987 he studied at S. Pierre Canisius College in Kimwenza, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. He then taught French language at Bishop Kelly College in Benin City for an academic year before moving to New York. He received his Masters (1989) and Ph.D. (1993) from Fordham University. His doctoral thesis was on \"Rationality and the Debates about African Philosophy.\"\n\nEze taught at Bucknell University and at Mount Holyoke College. In addition, he was a post-doctoral visiting scholar at Cambridge University (1996–1997, where he designed the M. Phil. program in African Studies), a visiting professor at the New School for Social Research (1997) and at the University of Cape Town (2003).\n\n\n\n\n\n\"On “Achieving our Humanity: The Idea of the Postracial Future”\"\n\n\n\"On “Race and the Enlightenment: A Reader”\":\n\n\n\"On “Postcolonial African Philosophy: A Critical Reader”\":\n\n\n\"On “African Philosophy: An Anthology”\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849918", "title": "Eugene Gendlin", "text": "Eugene Gendlin\n\nEugene T. Gendlin (born \"Eugen Gendelin\" in Vienna, Austria; 25 December 1926 – 1 May 2017) was an American philosopher who developed ways of thinking about and working with living process, the bodily felt sense and the 'philosophy of the implicit'. Though he had no degree in the field of psychology, his advanced study with Carl Rogers, his longtime practice of psychotherapy and his extensive writings in the field of psychology have made him perhaps better known in that field than in philosophy. He studied under Carl Rogers, the founder of client-centered therapy, at the University of Chicago and received his PhD in philosophy in 1958. Gendlin’s theories impacted Rogers’ own beliefs and played a role in Rogers’ view of psychotherapy. From 1958 to 1963 Gendlin was Research Director at the Wisconsin Psychiatric Institute of the University of Wisconsin. He served as an Associate Professor in the departments of Philosophy and Comparative Human Development at the University of Chicago from 1964 until 1995.\n\nGendlin is best known for Focusing and for \"Thinking at the Edge\", two procedures for thinking with more than patterns and concepts. In the 1950s and 60s, under the guidance of Rogers, Gendlin did seminal research demonstrating that a client's ability to realize lasting positive change in psychotherapy depended on their ability to access a nonverbal, bodily feel of the issues that brought them into therapy. Gendlin called this intuitive body-feel the “felt sense.” Realizing that people could learn this life-altering inner skill on their own, in 1978 Gendlin published his best-selling book \"Focusing\", which presented a six step method for discovering one's felt sense and drawing on it for personal development. Gendlin founded The Focusing Institute in 1985 (now the International Focusing Institute) to facilitate training and education in Focusing for academic and professional communities and to share the practice with the public.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Gendlin served on the original editorial board for the journal \"The Humanistic Psychologist\", published by Division 32 of the American Psychological Association (APA). He has been honored by the APA three times, and was the first recipient of their Distinguished Professional Psychologist of the Year award (given by Division 29, this award is now called the Distinguished Psychologist Award for Contributions to Psychology and Psychotherapy). He was awarded the Viktor Frankl prize by the Viktor Frankl Family Foundation in 2008. In 2016, he was honored with a lifetime achievement award from the World Association for Person Centered and Experiential Psychotherapy and Counseling and another lifetime achievement award was given to him that same year by the United States Association for Body Psychotherapy. Gendlin was a founder and longtime editor of the journal \"Psychotherapy: Theory, Research and Practice\" as well as the in-house journal of the Focusing Institute called the \"Folio\", and is the author of a number of books, including \"Focusing-Oriented Psychotherapy: A Manual of the Experiential Method\" (Guilford). The mass-market edition of his popular classic \"Focusing\" has been translated into 17 languages and sold more than a half million copies.\n\nGendlin regarded himself first and foremost as a philosopher and he brought a rigorous philosophical perspective to psychology, presented in his early book \"Experiencing and the Creation of Meaning\" and later developed into a comprehensive theory of the deep nature of life processes, articulated in his masterwork \"A Process Model\". From 1968 to 1995 he taught in both the philosophy and psychology departments at the University of Chicago. There he taught a course on theory-building that later gave rise to a new practice called “Thinking at the Edge,” a fourteen-step method for drawing on one’s non-conceptual, experiential knowing about any topic to create novel theory and concepts. Gendlin asserts that an organism's living interaction with its environment is prior (temporally and philosophically) to abstract knowledge about its environment. Living is an intricate, ordered interaction with the environment, and as such, is a kind of knowing. Abstract knowledge is a development of this more basic knowing.\n\nFor example, when a pen falls off a desk, that seems to be proof that gravity exists, because gravity made it fall. But what is \"gravity\"? In 1500, \"gravity\" was the pen's desire to go to the center of the earth; in 1700 \"gravity\" was a force that acted at a distance according to mathematical laws; in the 1900s \"gravity\" was an effect of curved space-time; and today physicists theorize that \"gravity\" may be a force carried by subatomic particles called \"gravitons\". Gendlin views \"gravity\" as a concept and points out that concepts can't make anything fall. Instead of saying that gravity causes things to fall, it would be more accurate to say that things falling cause [the different concepts of] gravity. Interaction with the world is prior to concepts about the world.\n\nThe fact that concepts change does not mean that they are arbitrary; concepts can be formulated in many diverse and incompatible ways, but to the extent that they are rooted in experience, each formulation has its own precise relationship to experience. Thus Gendlin's philosophy goes beyond relativism and postmodernism. He agrees with postmodernists that culture and language are always already implicit in experiencing and in concepts. Empirical testing is crucial, but it does not keep science from changing every few years. No assertions are simply \"objective\".\n\nGendlin points out that the universe (and everything in it) is implicitly more intricate than concepts, because a) it includes them, and b) all concepts and logical units are generated in a wider, more than conceptual process (which Gendlin calls \"implicit intricacy\"). This wider process is more than logical, in a way that has a number of characteristic regularities. Gendlin has shown that it is possible to refer directly to this process in the context of a given problem or situation and systematically generate new concepts and more precise logical units.\n\nBecause human beings \"are\" in an ongoing interaction with the world (they breathe, eat, and interact with others in every context and in any field in which they work), their bodies \"are\" a \"knowing\" which is more than conceptual and which implies further steps. Thus, it is possible for one to drive a car while carrying on an animated conversation; and it is possible for Einstein to say that he had a \"feel\" for his theory years before he could formulate it.\n\nHuman beings' ongoing interaction with the world provides ongoing validity. Each move, from pumping blood to discussing philosophy, implies a next step, an organic \"carrying forward\". Humans feel this carrying forward both in the move itself and in the feedback it generates: at each moment, it is possible to feel how things are moving and what is implied next. With specific training, one can learn to attend to this feeling more deeply, so that a holistic \"felt sense\" of the whole situation can form.\n\nA felt sense is quite different from \"feeling\" in the sense of emotions; it is one's bodily awareness of the ongoing life process. Because a felt sense is a living interaction in the world, it is not relative in the way that concepts are. A felt sense is more ordered than concepts and has its own properties, different from those of logic; for example, it is very precise, more intricate, and can be conceptualized in a variety of non-arbitrary ways. Much of Gendlin's philosophy is concerned with showing how this implicit bodily knowing functions in relation to logic. For example, Gendlin has found that when the felt sense is allowed to function in relation to concepts, each carries the other forward, through steps of deeper feel and new formulation.\n\nGendlin underlines that one can (and often does) \"progress\" in their understanding, and that this involves transitions in which existing conceptual models are disrupted, but that one can \"feel\" when a carrying forward in insight is (or is not) occurring. One can \"feel\" this because human logical conceptions are dependent on a more intricate order, which \"is\" living-in-the-world. Useful concepts derive from and are relative to this sense more than logical, intricate order, not the other way round.\n\nGendlin's two major philosophical works are \"Experiencing and the Creation of Meaning\", which develops explicit ways of approaching the implicit; and \"A Process Model\", which demonstrates this method by developing a body of consistent concepts for thinking about organic processes, with implications for thinking about space, time, science, genetics, ethology, consciousness, language, and spirituality.\n\nFocusing emerged from Gendlin's collaboration with psychologist Carl Rogers. Gendlin developed a way of measuring the extent to which an individual refers to a felt sense; and he found in a series of studies that therapy clients who have positive outcomes do much more of this. He then developed a way to teach people to refer to their felt sense, so clients could do better in therapy. This training is called 'Focusing'. Further research showed that Focusing can be used outside of therapy to address a variety of issues. It is described in Gendlin's book, \"Focusing\", which has sold over 400,000 copies and is printed in twelve languages. One of his most beloved quotations is from his book Focusing: \"When I use the word 'body,' I mean more than the physical machine. Not only do you physically live the circumstances around you but also those you only think of in your mind. Your physically felt body is in fact part of a gigantic system of here and other places, now and other times, you and other people–in fact, the whole universe. This sense of being bodily alive in a vast system is the body as it is felt from inside.\"\n\nIn 1970, Gendlin was the first person to receive the \"Distinguished Professional Award in Psychology and Psychotherapy\" from the Psychotherapy Division (Division 29) of the American Psychological Association. In 2000, Gendlin also received, along with The Focusing Institute, the Charlotte and Karl Bühler Award from the Society of Humanistic Psychology (Division 32 of the American Psychological Association). In 2007, he was a recipient of the Viktor Frankl Award of the City of Vienna for outstanding achievements in the field of meaning-oriented humanistic psychotherapy.\n\nThe worldwide dissemination of Focusing has been facilitated by The International Focusing Institute . This nonprofit organization defines itself as \"an international, cross-cultural organization dedicated to supporting individuals and groups world-wide who are practicing, teaching and developing Focusing and its underlying philosophy.\" Their 2010 Membership Directory listed about 2,000 members in over 40 countries. Its website houses the Gendlin Online Library.\n\n\"Thinking at the Edge\" (TAE), a practice initially developed by Mary N. Hendricks on the basis of Eugene Gendlin's \"philosophy of the implicit\", is a way of developing one's implicit knowing into an articulated theory. For example, a professional might have had an inchoate felt sense for a problem for many years. Using TAE, it is possible to develop concepts that explicate the felt sense very precisely so that what was implicit knowledge can generate an explicit theory that can contribute to the field.\n\nGendlin was born in Vienna, Austria on December 25, 1926. He lived with his parents in the 9th district of Vienna, a very Jewish district at that time. His mother was Sylvia Gendelin-Tobell. His father, Leonid Gendelin, had earned a doctoral degree in chemistry from the University of Graz. Dr. Gendelin had a dry cleaning business in Vienna. The family left Austria due to the rise of the Nazi party and the danger to Jewish families such as his. They first fled to the Netherlands and later emigrated to the United States on the SS Paris (1916) on its last voyage to New York, arriving January 11, 1939. The family changed their name to Gendlin upon their arrival in the United States, and in English it is pronounced \"JEHND-lin\" (not with the hard \"g\" as in German pronunciation). Gendlin went on to serve in the United States Navy and to become a U.S. citizen.\n\nGendlin lived in New York state until his death. He had three children: Gerry and Judith from his first marriage with wife Fran; and a daughter, Elissa, with his second wife, Mary Hendricks-Gendlin. Gerry Gendlin is an expert on Russia and serves as an Associate Professor in the department of History, Politics, Languages and Cultures at Edinboro University in Edinboro, Pennsylvania. Mary worked closely with Gendlin and served for many years as the Director of The Focusing Institute. Mary Hendricks-Gendlin died in 2015.\n\n1970: \"Distinguished Professional Award in Psychology and Psychotherapy,\" from Division 29 of the American Psychological Association (Division of Psychotherapy)\n\n2000: \"Charlotte and Karl Bühler Award\" (given jointly to Gendlin and The Focusing Institute), from Division 32 of the American Psychological Association (the Society for Humanistic Psychology)\n\n2007: \"Viktor Frankl Award of the City of Vienna for outstanding achievements in the field of meaning-oriented humanistic psychotherapy,\" from the Viktor Frankl Foundation \n\n2011: \"Distinguished Theoretical and Philosophical Contributions to Psychology,\" from Division 24 of the American Psychological Association (The Society for Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology)\n\n2016: \"Lifetime Achievement,\" from the World Association for Person Centered and Experiential Psychotherapy and Counseling\n\n2016: \"Lifetime Achievement,\" from the US Association for Body Psychotherapy\n\nGendlin's philosophical works include:\n\nHis writings on focusing and psychotherapy include:\n\nMany of Gendlin's writings are available online at the Focusing Institute and the Gendlin Online Library .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47930157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47930157", "title": "Floodgates principle", "text": "Floodgates principle\n\nThe floodgates principle, or the floodgates argument, is a legal principle which is sometimes applied by judges to restrict or limit the right to make claims for damages because of a concern that permitting a claimant to recover in such situations might open the metaphorical \"floodgates\" to large numbers of claims and lawsuits. The principle is most frequently cited in common law jurisdictions, and in English tort law in particular.\n\nMost of the situations in which the courts have employed the floodgates argument have revolved around liability in tort, and in particular in relation to the liability for nervous shock or for pure economic loss. The rationale in which the floodgates principle has been applied may vary. In some cases it is expressed to be a constraint upon when a defendant will owe a duty of care, in others it is expressed to be a limitation upon the remoteness of damage for which a defendant should be held responsible for. In other cases it is simply stated as a principle of public policy.\n\nThe floodgates principle is arguably the antithesis of the legal maxim: \"fiat justitia ruat caelum\" (\"let justice be done though the heavens fall\").\n\nThe core of the principle was enunciated by the then-Chief Justice of the New York Court of Appeals (later Associate Supreme Court Justice) Benjamin N. Cardozo in \"Ultramares Corp. v. Touche\" (1932) 174 N.E. 441 as the risk of exposing defendants to liability for \"indeterminate amount for an indeterminate time to an indeterminate class\".\n\nIn \"Spartan Steel & Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co (Contractors) Ltd\" Lord Denning MR put the same point in more expansive terms:\n\nIf a party by their negligence causes physical injury to one other person, then the pool of claimants for that physical injury is just that person. However, if each person who suffers resultant economic loss as a result of the injury to the person is also able to make a claim, then potentially the negligent party (and the courts) could be opened up to a vast array of claims. Similarly, where a party publishes a negligent in a document, if that document is published widely, if every person who read that statement was entitled to rely upon it and claim for any loss caused by relying upon it, there would similarly be an extremely wide-ranging liability for negligent misstatement. The last, and probably most difficult area where the floodates principle has been evoked relates to psychiatric injury, or \"nervous shock\". How far should a person be liable if they injure someone negligently, and then other persons see the accident and suffer psychiatric injury (but no physical harm) just from witnessing the accident? In trying to answer these questions the courts have sometimes fallen back on the floodgates principle to try and limit the potential range of claims.\n\nIn English law the first recorded reference to the floodgates principle was in 1888 in \"Victorian Railway Commissioners v Coultas\" That case involved a pregnant woman (the claimant) whose husband had driven onto train tracks at a level crossing, and due to the negligence of the gate keeper, were nearly struck by a high speed train. The plaintiff, Mrs Coultas, suffered from serious shock, leading to impaired memory and eyesight, and the loss of her unborn child. Nonetheless, the Privy Council held that she had no sustainable claim for damages, holding that:\n\nThe leading authority on nervous shock cases under English law is now \"Alcock v Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police\", a case which draws heavily upon the floodates principle. In limiting the right to recover to those who saw the accident or its immediate aftermath Lord Oliver held:\n\nAs an adjunct to the nervous shock cases, the courts have also had to consider claims by persons who are loosely classified as the \"worried well\", i.e. persons who are not actually ill, but have suffered an exposure and therefore are greatly concerned they may become gravely ill. These claims often relate to asbestos exposure, as mesothelioma can take 20 to 50 years, or longer, to manifest after an exposure. To date, the courts have appeared unwilling to consider claims from the \"worried well\".\n\nPure economic loss cases have also felt the strong influence of the concerns of the courts in relation to the floodgates principle. The English Court of Appeal in the decision of \"Spartan Steel & Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co (Contractors) Ltd\" made extensive reference to risks of such claims, and sought to limit economic loss to claims which are proximate to physical damage.\n\nJudicial concern has also been expressed about potential liability for negligent misstatements. Unlike physical acts, a negligent statement may be relied upon by a great many people leading to a wide class of potential claims. Accordingly, in \"Hedley Byrne & Co Ltd v Heller & Partners Ltd\" the House of Lords imposed the requirement that there would need to be a \"special relationship\" in order to justify a duty of care under which a person making a negligent statement could be held liable to a person who relied upon it.\n\nIn \"Hill v Chief Constable of West Yorkshire\" the House of Lords had to consider a claim by Jacqueline Hill, the last victim of Peter Sutcliffe (a serial killer known as the \"Yorkshire Ripper\"), against the police. The case argued that police had been sloppy and careless in their investigation, and if they had not been so the killer would have caught long before he murdered his last few victims. The claim was struck out on a number of grounds, one of which was the risk that every victim of crime might have an action against the police arguing that they should have caught the perpetrators at an earlier stage of their criminal careers.\n\nThe decision was upheld in \"Kent v Griffiths\" and rationalised on a different basis, viz., that the emergency services to do not owe general duties to the public on grounds of public policy.\nHowever, by contrast in \"Dorset Yacht Co Ltd v Home Office\" the House of Lords were fully prepared to hold the Home Office responsible for the acts of young offenders whom it failed to supervise, and who subsequently caused damage to the property of various members of the general public.\n\nThe floodgates principle is by no means a principle of universal application.\n\nThe courts have, on occasion, been prepared to uphold claims notwithstanding that they recognise that the effect of a decision will most likely result in a large amount of subsequent litigation. In the case of \"Hazell v Hammersmith and Fulham LBC\" the House of Lords upheld a claim that interest rate swaps entered into with local authorities in the United Kingdom were void although they knew that large numbers of such contracts had been entered into, and that unwinding the swaps would result in a large amount of litigation. In the event, over 200 separate sets of legal proceedings were launched, several of which were litigated to the Court of Appeal and three of which reached the House of Lords.\n\n"}
{"id": "54718412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54718412", "title": "Ganghwa hyanggyo", "text": "Ganghwa hyanggyo\n\nGanghwa hyanggyo is in charge of Confucian education for its surrounding area. It is located on Ganghwa island. Ganghwa hyanggyo was established in Gocheon-ri in 1127 (Injong 5), and was relocated several times to the present location in 1731 (youngjoe 7). The functions of the organization are: memorial services for ancestors in hyanggyo and the study of Confucianism.\n"}
{"id": "10847747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10847747", "title": "Gilbert Hottois", "text": "Gilbert Hottois\n\nGilbert Hottois (born 29 March 1946, Brussels) is a Belgian professor of Philosophy at the Université Libre de Bruxelles who specialises in Bioethics.\n\nHis positions include:\n\nHe is chair of the programme committee of the 2008 World Congress of Philosophy\n\nHe has published over 25 sole-authored books and numerous co-authored books and papers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29054399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29054399", "title": "Heimler method of Human Social Functioning", "text": "Heimler method of Human Social Functioning\n\nHeimler Method of Human Social Functioning (Human Social Functioning, HSF, sometimes referred to as The Heimler Method) is a form of psychotherapy that uses a client's own language and thought forms to aid them in finding their own solutions.\n\nDr. Eugene Heimler developed this approach out of his work in the United Kingdom within the National Health Service in the late 1950s and early 1960s (drawing on his earlier life experience in WWII concentration camps). He formulated a precise and powerful structure for counselling along with a sensitive questionnaire, The Heimler Scale of Social Functioning (HSSF).\n\nHSF is ideal for focused short-term work which is goal- and action-orientated, it can be used among diverse client groups, by a variety of professional disciplines on a one-to-one basis, with couples, or with groups. These include Counselling (at all levels), Supervision (management, coaching, training and counselling), Staff support, and Meetings (formal as well as informal).\n\nIn HSF, the therapist is taught to listen at depth, rather than hear and interpret, and thus is more likely to genuinely share another's world. For many people this is the best form of help that could be given. The underlying ethos \"the client knows best\" enables the therapist to support individuals to make their own choices within their own framework. The expertise of this approach lies in being a genuine and effective listener rather than providing a framework in which to understand people's problems.\n\nFor the listening process to be effective a structure is helpful to both participants. The stages of this can be identified, quickly learned and readily applied.\n\nThis structure for listening has applications within a number of spheres from problem solving to a deeper psychotherapeutic approach or in team development; with adults or children.\n\nAs a further structuring to the interviewing process, the HSSF can also be administered during counselling. Research has yielded detailed analysis that accurately identifies support needs and appropriate therapeutic responses with great accuracy. Some of the research studies concentrated on identifying specific coping patterns, while others have examined the diagnostic and predictive use of the HSSF. Other practitioners have described the use of HSF method with different types of groups: for instance with family therapy\n\nHeimler's theory reflects John Donne's well-known statement that \"no man is an island entire of itself\": that it is our relationships, positively or negatively perceived, that give life its meaning. For Heimler this means that society has a pivotal role with its more deprived members, to permit connection and meaning in their environment and that we can exist as sane or useful people only as long as we can transform and utilise the negative in us.\n\nHeimler's principles include the importance of the relationship between satisfaction and frustration. He observed that \"those who functioned in society ... had the common feature of a subjectively felt satisfaction that corresponded with their level of bearable frustration.\" Too much frustration or too little satisfaction is detrimental to good functioning for an individual. The person's life experience is valued and used as a resource for healing in addition to recognising where their energy is distributed. This enables the person to make changes that will allow more positive use of energy.\n\nAnother important principle which Heimler introduces is the use of the individual's past experience to dialogue with the present experience and project on to the future. Using a process, called the \"Fragmenta Vitae\", the person is enabled to become aware of the current emotional triggers and helped to access their early antecedents recalling childhood stories with the same emotional content. By engaging with the child in the past, the individual is encouraged to dialogue between the present and the past and to a projected future. This can help break patterns from the past and provide for an altered future outcome.\n\nHeimler understood his theory in a developmental model with three levels. Briefly put: Level 1 (L1) is the infant world of instinctual responses to pleasure or pain; Level 2 (L2) \"revolves\" around L1 as it were by taking the growing and developed child into social interactions with all the satisfactions and frustrations this can entail; while Level 3 (L3) revolves around life itself, often as a more dominant force in later life, but as well, a creative force than many people tap into from earlier years. All these levels are relatively fluid as development ebbs and flows.\n\nHeimler identified that \"when a psychiatric or medical history is taken, it is looking at what is wrong or what went wrong\" [and he continues:] \"... rarely ... will you find ... that which seeks what is right with people\". The HSF method sets out the whole of a client's current experience so that positive and negative can be set together and the client can see her/himself as a whole. In this methodology, the individuals stand firmly at the centre of their own world, exerting their will and abilities to change their own situation. Rodway sums up Heimler's philosophy as: \"the belief that man has choices, that choices should be made available to man and that freedom is equated with self-determination as man makes his choices\".\n\nHeimler's approach engages with the need to clarify the crux of the problem so as to facilitate a remedy. Although the concepts of social functioning were not new, Heimler sought a practical integrative tool which would \"focus on the positive, and how frustrations, abnormalities and difficulties could be turned into ultimate gain\". Heimler recognised that his ideas were not original but he sought an integrative whole which would offer a therapeutic tool. Along with his colleagues he produced a visual scale that showed to both therapist and client the connection between the individual's subjective experience and objective reality.\n\nHSF training is largely experientially-based with participants using their own life material when learning the interviewing techniques. Further training in therapeutic applications follows a similar pattern and incorporates imaginative techniques. Traditionally those wishing to use the HSSF have had to complete the full Human Social Functioning methodology with its disciplined structured mirroring approach as well as the administration of the HSSF. However most practitioners have a prior training in a form of counselling and find it irksome to learn another approach. Although HSF practitioners still consider that the methodology has its own distinctive value, there is a recognition that many want to use the HSF more as an assessment and add-on to their own core practice. Training in the Heimler scale includes an understanding of the ethos of the scale, administration, calculation, understanding, therapeutic aspects as well as the diagnostic opportunities it affords. Learning is through practical administration, video practice in feedback and written work to achieve a required standard in diagnosis and scale analysis. Training in the full HSF method is open to anyone with a professional health care qualification, taking 60 training hours with 20–40 hours of private study. For those who have prior counselling training, the HSSF (tool specific) training takes 30 hours with 20–30 hours of private study. Successful participants to both parts receive a certificate from The British Association of Social Functioning (BASF) and practitioner status with Heimler International. HSF training from qualified trainers in HSF has been recognised by BACP as contributing to the theory and skills development hours that are required for BACP accreditation.\n\nThe Heimler Scale of Social Functioning (HSSF) is a unique tool in that it covers a wide area of an individual's life experience, encouraging him to see himself in his societal setting. It was initially developed in the 1960s and has been widely used in a variety of contexts. It sets out, through a series of 55 questions, (most of them answered by a simple \"Yes\", \"No\", or \"Perhaps\") a pattern of energies in terms of \"Satisfactions\" and \"Frustrations\". It also puts these alongside an overall (existential) life view – Outlook. Satisfactions are set out in 25 questions under five headings: \"Work\", \"Finance\", \"Friends\", \"Family (past & present)\", and \"Personal\". These are set alongside Frustrations where there are also five areas, each with a sub-set of five questions: \"Activity\", \"Health\", \"Influences\", \"Moods\", and \"Escape Routes\". The final section, the Outlook, has five questions, which are answered in terms of a scale response.\n\nWhile recognising its diagnostic capabilities, Heimler used the scale primarily as an aid to counselling. From early in its development, researchers have shown it to be an extremely sophisticated diagnostic instrument. The balance of Satisfactions to Frustrations provides an accurate picture of how well a person feels that he or she is coping, what help, if any, they may require, and likely outcomes. These energy balances vary according to how life is being experienced at the time of filling in the questionnaire. How these energies are distributed allows for a deeper analysis and therapeutic use of the scale. More recently, through research studies, it has also come to light that definite themes emerge among different groups of people. For instance those in the caring professions are likely to be more questioning and flexible in their life approach than top managers in industry, and very high achievers in sport have greater frustration than those whom they beat. Administration of the Scale is a simple matter and takes about 15–20 minutes to complete: scoring the questionnaire allows for an immediate diagnosis of support needs. A deeper analysis of the answers can be deduced in a comparatively short period of time compared with what would otherwise take hours of interviewing. The discipline of this analysis takes time and patience to acquire – that of understanding a person's world from within and seeing the logic of that world. Once acquired it is an invaluable aid to genuine understanding and sensitive response.\n\nCriticism has largely centred around the lack of availability of the HSSF for peer review. The copyright that was meant to protect it from abuse in the hands of non-practitioners had the effect of removing it from the critical analysis of those who use psychometric tools. Despite considerable interest and research in its earlier years, this restrictive copyright has continued to prevent appropriate scrutiny. The Eugene Heimler Literary Trust (EHLT) has now accepted this and is taking steps, albeit belatedly to permit the scale to be disseminated more widely for the purpose of such examination. Another area for concern has been the response range to the questions: \"Yes\", \"Perhaps\" and \"No\" have been thought to be too limited and it has been suggested that a Likert scale with a range between 1 and 5 might give more accurate results. Van Breda, a moderate critic of the HSSF, attempted to test this out, using a large number of scales, but found that similar results were obtained when the original scale and the Likert scale were used.\n\n\nA full list of Heimler's publications including his Hungarian poetry can be found on the Heimler-International website.\n\n\n\nSome of these papers along with other conference proceedings are available through the BASF website.\n"}
{"id": "37546368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37546368", "title": "Hermeneutic Communism", "text": "Hermeneutic Communism\n\nHermeneutic Communism: from Heidegger to Marx is a 2011 book of political philosophy and Marxist hermeneutics by Gianni Vattimo and Santiago Zabala.\n\nThe authors explain the book as follows \"Although the material published here has never been released before, there are two books that have determined the production of this text: Gianni’s \"Ecce Comu: Come si diventa cio che si era\" (2007) and Santiago’s \"The Remains of Being: Hermeneutic Ontology After Metaphysics\" (2009). In the former, Vattimo emphasized the political necessity of reevaluating communism; in the latter, Zabala insisted on the progressive nature of hermeneutics. \"Hermeneutic Communism\" can be considered a radical development of both.\" In 2004, after leaving the party of the Democrats of the Left, he endorsed Marxism, reassessing positively its projectual principles and wishing for a \"return\" to the thought of Karl Marx and to a communism, rid of distorted soviet developments, which have to be dialectically overcome. Vattimo asserts the continuity of his new choices with the \"weak thought,\" thus having changed \"many of his ideas.\" He namely refers to a \"weakened Marx,\" as ideological basis capable of showing the real nature of communism. The new Marxist approach, therefore, emerges as a practical development of the \"weak thought\" into the frame of a political perspective. \n\nPart 1 of the book is called \"Framed Democracy\" in which he characterizes contemporary capitalism as \"Armed capitalism\". Also while analysing current western parliamentary democracies he speaks of \"A politics of descriptions does not impose power in order to dominate as a philosophy; rather, it is functional for the continued existence of a society of dominion, which pursues truth in the form of imposition (violence), conservation (realism), and triumph (history).\" Part II is called \"Hermeneutic Communism\" where he talks of \"Interpretation as Anarchy\" and affirms that \"existence is interpretation\" and \"hermeneutics is weak thought\". Afterwards advocates a \"weakened communism\" and praises as models for change the contemporary Latin American left wing governments such as those of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, Evo Morales in Bolivia and Lula in Brazil. For him \"this new weak communism differs substantially from its previous Soviet (and current Chinese) realization, because the South American countries follow democratic electoral procedures and also manage to decentralize the state bureaucratic system through the misiones (social missions for community projects). In sum, if weakened communism is felt as a specter in the West, it is not only because of media distortions but also for the altemative it represents through the same democratic procedures that the West constantly professes to cherish but is hesitant to apply\".\n\nThe authors dedicate the book to \"Castro, Chavez, Lula, and Morales.\"\n\nIn 2017 S. Mazzini and O. Glyn-Williams released a book on \"Hermeneutic Communism\" published by Springer Verlag, \"Making Communism Hermeneutic: Reading Vattimo and Zabala\", with critical contributions from 17 renown scholars from all over the world as well as Vattimo and Zabala's responses.\n\n\"Hermeneutic Communism is much more than a beautifully written essay in political philosophy, reaching from ontological premises to concrete political analyses: it provides a coherent communist vision from the standpoint of Heideggerian postmetaphysical hermeneutics. All those who criticize postmodern ‘weak thought’ for its inability to ground radical political practice will have to admit their mistake—Gianni Vattimo and Santiago Zabala demonstrate that weak thought does not mean weak action but is the very resort of strong radical change. This is a book that everyone who thinks about radical politics needs like the air he or she breathes!\" — Slavoj Žižek, author of \"Living in the End Times\"\n\n\"Those interested in the potential for theoretical reformulations made possible by postfoundational political thought and those following the rebellion of marginal sectors of society have a lot to learn from this remarkable book.\" — Ernesto Laclau, author of \"On Populist Reason\"\n\n\"Hermeneutic Communism is one of those rare books that seamlessly combines postmetaphysical philosophy and political practice, the task of a meticulous ontological interpretation and decisive revolutionary action, the critique of intellectual hegemony and a positive, creative thought. Vattimo and Zabala, unlike Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri, do not offer their readers a readymade political ontology but allow radical politics to germinate from each singular and concrete act of interpretation. This is the most significant event of twenty-first-century philosophy!\" — Michael Marder, author of \"Groundless Existence: The Political Ontology of Carl Schmitt\"\n\n\"The authors argue that ‘weak thought,’ or an antifoundational hermeneutics, will allow social movements to avoid both the violence attending past struggles and, if triumphant, a falling back into routines of domination—the restoration of what Jean-Paul Sartre called the ‘practico-inert.’ Vattimo and Zabala end with Latin America as a case study of applied weak thought politics, where the left in recent years has had remarkable success at the polls.\" — Greg Grandin, New York University\n\n\"The work of Vattimo and Zabala clears a new stage for political theorizing based on a careful probe of the current state of destitution and hidden edges of social vitality. While I do not always agree with the conclusions drawn by these marvelous writers, I thank them for sparking an essential debate and replenishing our critical vocabularies.\" — Avital Ronell, New York University and the European Graduate School\n\n\"...action-packed...\" — \"Asia Times\"\n\n\"...Vattimo and Zabala offer a refreshing alternative to the hegemonic discourse, a breath of fresh air from the violent imposition of “metaphysics” by those in power.\" — \"Ceasefire Magazine\"\n\n\"Despite its thin profile the content itself is formidable in achieving both its critical and scholarly aims.\" — Maxwell Kennel, \"Symposium: Canadian Journal of Continental Philosophy\", Issue 16.2 (2012): 251-259.\n\n"}
{"id": "15746223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15746223", "title": "Honmei choco", "text": "Honmei choco\n\nHomemade \"honmei choco\" is also popular.\n\nThis is generally reciprocated on White Day, celebrated on March 14, when men buy candy and gifts for women.\n"}
{"id": "9942171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9942171", "title": "Horace Jayne", "text": "Horace Jayne\n\nHorace Fort Jayne (5 March 1859, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania – 9 July 1913, Wallingford, Pennsylvania) was an American zoölogist and educator.\n\nHe was the son of patent medicine millionaire Dr. David Jayne (1799-1866) and Hannah Fort Jayne (1827–1904).\n\nHe was educated at the University of Pennsylvania (A.B., 1879; M.D., 1882), and studied biology at the universities of Leipzig and Jena in 1882–1883, and at Johns Hopkins for a year. In 1884 he was appointed professor of vertebrate morphology at The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, and became a director of the institute. He was a professor of zoölogy at the University of Pennsylvania from 1894 to 1905, secretary of Penn's biological faculty (1884–1889), and dean of Penn's college faculty (1889–1894). He became a trustee of Drexel Institute, and served as co-editor of several scientific journals.\n\nHe married ethnologist Caroline Furness Jayne (1873–1909), and they had two children. Their son, Horace H. F. Jayne (1898–1975), became the first curator of Chinese art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and later was director of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, and vice director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nHe was also the author of many scientific papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3895030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895030", "title": "Innocent (Giesel)", "text": "Innocent (Giesel)\n\nInnokenty Gizel (c. 1600 - November 18, 1683) was a Prussian-born historian, writer, political and ecclesiastic figure, who had adopted Orthodox Christianity and made a substantial contribution to Russian and Ukrainian culture. \n\nInnokentiy Gizel was a rector of the Kievan Theological School. In 1656, he was appointed archmandrite of the Kiev Pechersk Lavra. Innokentiy Gizel is known to have supported the unification of Ukraine and Russia and of the Kiev clergy, simultaneously. Innokentiy Gizel is generally credited for writing the Synopsis in 1674, but some researchers deny his authorship.\n"}
{"id": "1456593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456593", "title": "Involution (esoterism)", "text": "Involution (esoterism)\n\nThe term involution refers to different things depending on the writer. In some instances it refers to a process that occurs prior to evolution and gives rise to the cosmos, in others an aspect of evolution, and still others a process that follows the completion of evolution in the human form.\n\nIn theosophy, anthroposophy and Rosicrucianism, involution and evolution are part of a complex sequence of cosmic cycles, called Round. When the universe attains a stage of sufficient density, the individual spirit is able to descend and participate in the evolution. Involution thus refers to the incarnation of spirit in an already established matter, the necessary prerequiste of evolution:\n\nThat period of time devoted to the attainment of self-consciousness and the building of the vehicles through which the spirit in man manifests, is called \"involution\". Its purpose is to slowly carry life lower and deeper into denser and denser matter for the building of forms, till the nadir of materiality is reached. From that point, life begins to ascend into higher Worlds. This succeeding period of existence, during which the individual human being develops \"self-consciousness\" into \"divine omniscience\", is called \"spiritual evolution\".\n\nIn the cosmology of Surat Shabda Yoga, involution and evolution apply to both the macrocosm, the whole of creation, and the microcosm, the constitution of an individual soul.\n\n\"The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception\", a Rosicrucian text written by Max Heindel, advances the concept of epigenesis as the \"key\" related to the evolution (after an \"involutionary\" period) of human beings.\n\nFor Sri Aurobindo, involution is the process by which the Omnipresent Reality, i.e. the Absolute, Brahman extends Itself to create a universe of separate forms from out of Its own Force/Energy.\n\n\"Sat\", \"Chit-Tapas\", and Delight/\"Ananda\" are the three aspects of \"Satchitananda\", and they are part of involution. Spirit or consciousness manifests as these three, and then as the intermediate link of Supermind, which is transitional between the higher and lower (matter, life, and mind) nature.\n\nThe reason for involution is Delight—the Delight of Being (the Spirit or Absolute) moving to Delight of Becoming (temporal existence, the cosmos). Being throws itself forward into a multiplicity of forms, becoming lost in the inconscience of matter, and then through evolution it partakes in the Delight of rediscovering the Spirit which had been hidden in the interim.\n\nEvolution is thus the movement forward by which the created universe evolves from its initial state of inconscience (i.e. as matter), evolves animated life forms and mental beings (i.e. humans), and continues to evolve spiritual properties, and in that process rediscovers its Source. Such an Evolution of animated forms is only possible because at each stage of development, the developing entity contains within itself the conception of what it may become. Thus, the evolution of animated life out of matter supposes a previous involution of that animated capacity. This is akin to a seed that already has the essence of the tree that will emerge from it.\n\nEach plane emerges from an earlier plane through the evolutionary process, which takes place in chronological time. But in a parallel construction, each of these new planes can be understood as being a descendent of its corresponding higher order plane from the Infinite. Thus, when mentality emerged in the universe, the universal plane of Mind was implanted to a degree in those beings harboring that mentality.\n\nThe evolution is the development of all entities in the cosmos, including humans, in order to attain their fulfillment, including the discovery of spiritual Delight, which was, and always is, the experience of the Source Creator. The evolution is the progressive development from the original inconscience of matter into life (movement, sensation, desire, etc. and living physical beings), and from thence to mind (in conscious animals and most especially humans—the self-conscious thinking animal), and from thence to spiritualized mind, culminating in The Supermind or Truth Consciousness (as supramental individuals, and finally the supramental, i.e. a divine life on earth).\n\nWe cannot speak of Sat without Chit Ananda or Being, Consciousness and Bliss. They represent a totality. Sat is the vital state of that which is was and always will be. In a sense it is a beginnining but because it is pregnant with possibility it is inexorably tied to Ananda or the recognition of Being and then the subsequent realization of bliss which is divine inner knowing. Each flows out of the other and then back again. It could be said that Sat only exists through Ananda or Consciousness however, these levels of differentiation cannot grasp the true nature of either of these three qualities since they are interdependent.\n\n\"Sat—being, existence; substance; \"pure existence, eternal, infinite, indefinable, not affected by the succession of Time, not involved in the extension of Space, beyond form, quantity, quality\", the first term of saccidananda and the principle that is the basis of satyaloka; \"the spiritual substance of being\" which is cast \"into all manner of forms and movements\"; existence as \"the stuff of its own becoming\", which on every plane is \"shaped into the substance with which Force has to deal\" and \"has formed itself here, fundamentally, as Matter; it has been objectivised, made sensible and concrete to its own self-experiencing conscious-force in the form of self-dividing material substance\" short for sat brahman.\"\n\n\"Chit-Tapas\" or Consciousness-Force, in Sri Aurobindo's philosophy refers to the pure energy of Consciousness by which creation ultimately comes about; the infinite divine self-awareness which is also the infinite all-effective Will. It is also one of the seven planes of existence, according to the Vedic cosmology and the seven lokas of Hindu thought.\n\nIn chapter 10 of \"The Life Divine\", Sri Aurobindo writes at length on the nature of Consciousness-Force as a principle of the Divine. As he understands it (following the Tantric dichotomy of Shiva and Shakti), \"Chit\" or Consciousness is not an inert and passive principle; but contains the potential spiritual Energy, \"Tapas\", which in Creation becomes the dynamic and creative principle or Force, called \"Shakti\". \"Chit-Tapas\" or \"Chit-Shakti\" is therefore the universal Consciousness-Force, the divine Energy; the Mother.\n\nDelight is Sri Aurobindo's term for ananda, and plays a large part in his cosmology and spiritual teaching. Delight is the reason for creation, by which The Absolute extends its Delight of Being into multiplicity, losing itself in the inconscience and then through Delight rediscovering Itself through individuals realising their Divine nature and proceeding to spiritual realisation.\n\nIn other words, the universe was created so that the Delight of the Infinite Spirit can manifest in all the forms of creation. When we discover our higher nature, the soul and spirit, we experience the delight for which we were came into being and of which we are a part.\n\nIn chapters 11 and 12 of \"The Life Divine\", Sri Aurobindo writes at length on the nature of Delight as a principle of the Divine, and its role in creation.\n\nMeher Baba uses the term \"involution\" to mean the inner path of a spiritual aspirant toward Self-realization. He divides involution into seven stages he calls \"planes,\" and describes different experiences and powers had on each, until the Goal of full enlightenment is achieved at the seventh plane.\n\nFor Baba Hari Dass (a Maunisadhu monk who practices continual silence), evolution and involution are key concepts on universal level that have also individualized expressions in mental processes. In Samkhya and Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, in yoga practice, those two states are conditions of mind (\"chitta\"), with the mind's outward-evolution expressions (\"pravritti\") and the inward-involution expressions (\"nirvritti\"). Nirvritti is the involution stage where \"Yoga is the control of thought waves in the mind\" (Sutra 2, Samadhi Pada). Outward expressions of mental activity, vritti, draw the mind to the afflicting experiences, and in effect produce afflicting impressions of \"klishta-vritti\", or \"vyutthana samskaras\" (outgoing mind). Involution, or deep introspection in yoga, leads to the opposite results and attenuates afflicting impressions to the finest degree possible with the end result of \"aklishta-vritti\" (non-painful thought waves). Thus, when the mind is liberated from painful impressions, one-pointed mind (\"ekagra samskara\") is achieved, which can be said to be the goal of yoga. One-pointed mind is the foundation of \"samprajnata\" and \"asamprajnata samdhi\", or \"super-consciousness\".\n\nIn integral thought, involution is the process by which the Divine manifests the cosmos. The process by which the creation rises to higher states and states of consciousness is the evolution. Involution prepares the universe for the Big Bang; evolution continues from that point forward. The term \"involution\" comes from the idea that the divine \"involves\" itself in creation. After the creation, the Divine (i.e. the Absolute, Brahman, God) is both the One (the Creator) and the Many (that which was created).\n\nThe integral philosopher Ken Wilber refers to involution in his online chapter of \"Kosmic Karma\", employing concepts from Plotinus, Advaita Vedanta, Tibetan Buddhism, and Sri Aurobindo. According to Wilber, the cosmic evolution described in his previous works is preceded by an involution of Spirit into Matter. This involution follows the reverse stages to the sequence of evolution—e.g. Spirit to soul to mind to life to matter. Once the stage of insentient, lifeless matter is attained, then \"something like the Big Bang occurs\", whereupon matter and manifest world come into concrete existence, from which stage evolution follows.\n\nInvolution and evolution are important themes in the cosmology of G. I. Gurdjieff (1866? – 1949), addressed in detail in his book \"Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson\".\n\nIn a popular presentation of Gurdjieff’s teaching by P. D. Ouspensky and others, different terminologies are often preferred: \"ascending and descending octaves\" (evolutionary and involutionary processes), \"the Ray of Creation\" (the full scale of involutionary processes), \"emanation\" (the initiation of involutionary processes at the prime source), etc\n\nLike Aurobindo and others, Gurdjieff uses the word \"involution\" in reference to a top-down flow in the universe contributing to the creation and maintenance of cosmoses. Gurdjieff’s main emphasis, however, was the mystery of how the descending flow of involution could change into the ascending flow of evolution. Exactly in this mystery, Gurdjieff looked for the significance of all living creatures, particularly man.\n\nThis search of Gurdjieff coincides with the scientists' search since the late 19th century for any principle in the universe that may go against the domination of the Second Law of Thermodynamics formulated by Rudolf Julius Emmanuel Clausius. The law predicts the doom of the universe by affirming the irreversible increase of entropy (loss of creative potentials) in a closed system due to the inherent tendency of matters toward dispersion and equalization. Larger the system, more escapable it is from the sorrowful fate predicted by this Law.\n\nTherefore, as far as the normal logics go, there appears to be no way to avoid the increase of entropy in this scientifically defined process of involution, which began to have a more realistic character as a theory when the big bang theory began to be affirmed by more scientists based on observed evidences. Thus, the esoteric theory of \"involution\" or the theory of \"everything arising from one\" began to be accepted by official science.\n\nIn this context, the role of time in the Second Law of Thermodynamics is a curious alone because the irreversible increase of entropy in the universe, as a principle that can be verified through daily observations, as something equivalent of the irreversibility of time, is an enough proof of the big bang theory. That is to say, since the increase of entropy in time is continuous and irreversible, one would arrive at the prime oneness if one could travel backward in time.\n\nWhile a novel by Dan Brown depicts a Catholic priest who holds a romantic view about the big bang theory, taking it as an evidence of everything arising from one. Gurdjieff's interpretation of the same fact was exactly the opposite. The finding of \"everything arose from one\" is not a blessed one if one is intelligent enough to think of what awaits in the future as a result of this: everything is moving away from one and in the process of dispersion into nothingness.\n\nAccording to Gurdjieff, the prime force that emanates from the prime source continues to lose \"vivifyingness\" and become more \"dense\" in the process of involution as it contributes to creations of various kinds. By admitting this, Gurdjieff seems to affirm the domination of the Second Law of Dynamics not only in the physical domain but also in the spiritual domain. Gurdjieff, however, speaks also of \"evolution\" as a reverse flow back to the source. Gurdjieff seems to assert that all created beings have a seed of this urge to return to the source. Gurdjieff calls it \"remorse\", an urge to go back to the source and reblend into one.\n\nAccording to Gurdjieff, the processes of involution and evolution are governed by the Law of Three and the Law of Seven. The Law of Three concerns the dynamic interactions among the forces of Affirming, Denying and Reconciling. Some similarities to this theory may be found in Indian philosophies and their interpretation by Aurobindo. The Law of Seven concerns certain irregularities in the development of processes or in the unfolding of events comparable with irregularities in musical octaves. Similarities to this insight are found in modern science such as irregularities or nonlinear ties in the development of various phenomena such as state transitions. According to Gurdjieff, it is thanks to such irregularities that the universe may escapes the sorrowful fate logically expected from the domination of \"merciless Heropass\" (a word Gurdjieff created to mean the Action of Time or the law of irreversible increase if entropy in time).\n\nGurdjieff warns against mechanical association of \"good\" and \"bad\" with the concepts of involution and evolution. Since involution is a flow from above, an inspiration, people tend to worship this flow as something sacred. However, as the negative connotation of the word \"involution\" suggests, mechanical obedience to this top-down flow, often in the name of religion, is nothing but degeneration. In this sense, Gurdjieff raised controversy by saying that his way was \"against God\". The top-down flow of involution fulfills its purpose only when it provokes in beings a reverse flow of evolution back to the prime source.\n\nGurdjieff, with his students, did real-life experiments around the question of how the top-down flow of involution could change into the bottom-up flow of evolution. The same search was shared later by some scientists, particularly those at the [Santa Fe institute], who also were intrigued by irregularities in the development of certain phenomena that appeared to come from complex interactions among different processes and laws. Their studies suggest that interactions among different processes and laws, particularly with the involvement of consciousness, may lead to the emergence of unexpected something that might defy the seemingly unavoidable detrimental action of time according to the second law of thermodynamics.\n\nGurdjieff experimented with collective living in a commune-like format and also with intricately designed group dances called the Movements. They provided a rare environment in which one may actually witness the miracle of an upward flow emerging from the work of consciousness in to a dynamic situation involving interactions among different qualities of forces.\n\nWith the advent of computers, scientists began to use a particular kind of simulation programs called \"automatons\" to represent how the complex interactions among individuals, the behaviors of each of whom are governed by relatively simple set of rules, may result in the \"emergence\" of unexpected patterns at the group level, where \"emergence\" is a new concept signifying the true creativity for man as opposed to the traditional concept of creation by God. It is interesting to notice that many of the Movements created by Gurdjieff are programmed just like these \"automaton\" simulation codes. The only and quite a great difference seems to be that Gurdjieff employed real living human beings, instead of virtual creatures in computers, for his experiment.\n\n"}
{"id": "408150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408150", "title": "Is the glass half empty or half full?", "text": "Is the glass half empty or half full?\n\n\"Is the glass half empty or half full?\" is a common expression, a proverbial phrase, generally used rhetorically to indicate that a particular situation could be a cause for optimism (half full) or pessimism (half empty), or as a general litmus test to simply determine an individual's worldview. The purpose of the question is to demonstrate that the situation may be seen in different ways depending on one's point of view and that there may be opportunity in the situation as well as trouble.\n\nAnother perspective comes from psychology, where research has shown that a speaker's choice of frame can reflect their knowledge of the environment, and that listeners can be sensitive to this information.\n\n"}
{"id": "16372180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16372180", "title": "Jakob Gadolin", "text": "Jakob Gadolin\n\nJakob Gadolin (October 24, 1719 – September 26, 1802) was a Swedish Lutheran bishop, professor of physics and theology, politician and statesman.\n\nGadolin was born in Strängnäs, Sweden. In 1736, he studied at The Royal Academy of Turku (which later became the University of Turku). In 1745 he became Master of Philosophy and Professor of Mathematics. He became accomplished in numerous fields such as philosophy and mathematics and from 1753 was a Professor of Physics and in 1762 Professor of Theology.\nIn 1788, he succeeded Jakob Haartman as the Bishop of the Archdiocese of Turku which was then a diocese of the Church of Sweden. He held this position until his death in 1802.\n\nHe served as a representative of the clergy in the Diocese of Turku in the Swedish Riksdag of the Estates 1755-56, 1760–62 and 1771-72. In 1751, Gadolin was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nJakob Gadolin was married to Elisabet Browallia (1737-1793) and was the father of the noted chemist, Johan Gadolin.\n\n"}
{"id": "39154500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39154500", "title": "James Fieser", "text": "James Fieser\n\nJames Fieser is professor of philosophy at the University of Tennessee at Martin. He received his B.A. from Berea College, and his M.A. and Ph.D. in philosophy from Purdue University. He is founder and general editor of the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. He is author, coauthor or editor of more than ten text books.\n\n"}
{"id": "252312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252312", "title": "James Hinton", "text": "James Hinton\n\nJames Hinton (baptized 26 November 1822 – died 16 December 1875) was an English surgeon and author. He was the father of mathematician Charles Howard Hinton.\n\nHe was born at Reading, Berkshire, the son of John Howard Hinton, Baptist minister and author of the \"History and Topography of the United States\" and other works. James was educated at his grandfather's school near Oxford, and at the Nonconformist school at Harpenden, and in 1838, on his father's removal to London, was apprenticed to a woollen-draper in Whitechapel. After working there for about a year he became clerk in an insurance office. His evenings were spent in intense study, and this, combined with a concentration on moral problems, so affected his health that, aged eighteen, he tried to seek refuge from his own thoughts by running away to sea. His intention having been discovered, he was sent, on the advice of his doctor, to St Bartholomew's Hospital to study for the medical profession. After receiving his diploma in 1847, he was for some time assistant surgeon at Newport, Essex, but the same year he went out to Sierra Leone to take medical charge of the free labourers on their voyage thence to Jamaica, where he stayed some time. He returned to England in 1850, and entered into partnership with a surgeon in London, where he soon had his interest awakened specially in aural surgery, and also studied physiology.\n\nAfter being appointed aural surgeon to Guy's Hospital in 1863, he soon acquired a reputation as the most skillful aural surgeon of his day. In the 1870s his health began to break down, and in 1874 he gave up practice. He died the following year at the Azores of \"acute inflammation of the brain\".\n\nHis career as an author started in 1856 with papers on physiological and ethical subjects to the \"Christian Spectator\"; and in 1859 he published \"Man and his Dwellingplace\". A series of papers entitled \"Physiological Riddles,\" in the \"Cornhill Magazine\", afterwards published as \"Life in Nature\" (1862), as well as another series entitled \"Thoughts on Health\" (1871), proved his aptitude for popular scientific exposition. His specialist field of aural surgery was the subject of \"An Atlas of Diseases of the membrana tympani\" (1874), and \"Questions of Aural Surgery\" (1874). In addition to the works already mentioned, he was the author of \"The Mystery of Pain\" (1866) and \"The Place of the Physician\" (1874). On account of their fresh and vigorous discussion of many of the important moral and social problems of the times his writings had a wide circulation on both sides of the Atlantic.\n\nHe was also a radical advocate of polygamous relationships, and according to his wife, had once remarked to her: \"Christ was the saviour of Men but I am the saviour of Women and I don't envy him a bit.\" The notoriety of his writings on polygamy led to accusations in polite society of actual immorality leading to a renunciation of them just before he died.\n\nHis \"Life and Letters\", edited by Ellice Hopkins, with an introduction by Sir WW Gull, appeared in 1878 but overlooked references to polygamy. Some philosophical writings were published posthumously, edited by his wife Margaret and sister-in-law Caroline Haddon.The polygamous aspects led to a campaign to discredit him, fronted especially by a group of London radicals, The Men and Women's Club founded in 1885 to discuss matters of gender and sexuality. Its success led to the discrediting too of his son, Charles Howard, whose bigamy was attributed to his father's theories. In 1887 Charles Howard and Mary Ellen Boole, the eldest daughter of George Boole and Mary Everest, exiled their family to Japan.\n\nBecause of his association with Sir William Withey Gull, Hinton has been indirectly associated with the murders of Jack the Ripper.\n\nIn their fictional graphic novel on the Ripper, \"From Hell\", authors Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell extend Hinton's concern over social problems to prostitution in Whitechapel, which became the hunting grounds for the Ripper after his death. Their suggestion is that his concerns over prostitution among the lower classes greatly influenced Gull, who was put forward as a Ripper suspect in Stephen Knight's 1976 book, \"\".\n\nIn \"From Hell\", Hinton is portrayed as an idealistic doctor given to \"passionate outbursts\" and flights of metaphysical theorizing and speculation. His character is used as a complementary figure to the more worldly – and less compassionate – Dr. Gull.\n\nHinton's association with the murders has much to do with both Knight's book and Iain Sinclair's novel \"White Chappell, Scarlet Tracings\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24385757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24385757", "title": "Jangama dhyana", "text": "Jangama dhyana\n\nJangama dhyana is a meditation technique, which has been practiced by various sages over the centuries. In modern times, it has been used by Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj and his direct disciple Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj to achieve self-realization. The technique is currently taught by Shri Shivarudra Balayogi. \"Jangama\" means 'eternal existence' and \"dhyana\" means 'meditation.' Hence \"Jangama dhyana\" is 'Meditation on the Eternal Existence (of the Self).'\n\n\"Jangama dhyana\" is an ancient meditation technique which involves concentrating the mind and sight between the eyebrows. According to Patanjali, this is one method of achieving the initial concentration (\"dharana\": Yoga Sutras, III: 1) necessary for the mind to go introverted in meditation (\"dhyana\": Yoga Sutras, III: 2). In the deeper practice of the Jangama dhyana technique, the mind concentrated between the eyebrows begins to automatically lose all location and focus on the watching itself. Eventually, the meditator experiences only the consciousness of existence and achieves Self Realization. Swami Vivekananda describes the process in the following way:\nWhen the mind has been trained to remain fixed on a certain internal or external location, there comes to it the power of flowing in an unbroken current, as it were, towards that point. This state is called \"dhyana\". When one has so intensified the power of \"dhyana\" as to be able to reject the external part of perception and remain meditating only on the internal part, the meaning, that state is called \"Samadhi\".\nThe point between the eyebrows is referred to as the \"bhrikuti\" and symbolically as the \"ajna chakra\", which means 'commanding circle.' When the mind becomes totally concentrated at this point, one becomes the commander of one's mind. Until then, the meditator will not have achieved self-mastery. The Bhagavad Gita describes the process and benefits of the meditation technique as follows:\nShutting off sense \nFrom what is outward, \nFixing the gaze \nAt the root of the eye-brows, \nChecking the breath-stream \nIn and outgoing \nWithin the nostrils, \nHolding the senses, \nHolding the intellect, \nThrusts fear aside, \nThrusts aside anger \nAnd puts off desire: \nTruly that man \nIs made free for ever.\n\nIn modern times, the 19th century Yogi, Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, practiced meditating between the eyebrows in order to achieve \"Nirvikalpa Samadhi\" (bringing the mind to a complete standstill, beyond imagination). Though he was able to withdraw his mind from all external sensations and objects, he initially could not go beyond the vision of goddess Kali, which his mind had become totally concentrated upon during his long period of devotional \"tapas\". Shri Ramakrishna recounts how his Guru on the path of Advaita Vedanta, Totapuri, gave him further instruction in the meditation technique to overcome this obstacle:\nHe cast his eyes around. Finding a piece of glass he took it up and stuck it between my eyebrows... 'Concentrate the mind on this point!' he thundered. Then with stern determination I again sat to meditate... The last barrier fell. My spirit at once soared beyond the relative plane and I lost myself in \"Samadhi\".\nLater Shri Ramakrishna was to give the same instruction in meditation to his illustrious disciple Swami Vivekananda.\n\nToday, the technique is associated with Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj and his direct disciple Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj. Shri Shivabalayogi was initiated into the technique at the age of fourteen. On 7 August 1949, he experienced a vision of a tall Jangama Sage (ancient order of ascetics) with matted hair, who told him to sit in padmasana (lotus posture), and close his eyes. The Sage then touched the young boy between the eyebrows and instructed, 'Watch here.' Thus, Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj sat in \"tapas\" (deep, prolonged meditation) for twelve years, meditating for 23 hours a day for eight years and around 12 hours a day for the remaining four years. After this period, he initiated tens of thousands of people into the meditation technique he had used to achieve Self Realization. \nIn 1994, Shri Shivabalayogi initiated his direct disciple, Seenu, into \"tapas\" using the Jangama dhyana technique. He achieved Self Realization in November 1999 and was given the name Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj, after meditating for around 20 hours a day over five years.\n\nThe name for the technique was coined by Shri Shivabalayogi while walking around the Dehradun ashram one night with his direct disciple, Seenu, who was later to become the Enlightened Yogi, Shri Shivarudra Balayogi. He suddenly turned to Seenu and said:\nPerhaps it would be nice to name the meditation technique we are teaching worldwide as \"Jangama dhyana.\" Lord Shiva first appeared to me in the form of a Jangama Sage to impart the technique, and \"Jangama\" means 'Eternal Existence'; so \"Jangama dhyana\" would mean 'meditation on the Eternal Existence of the Self.'\nThe Jangama dhyana technique is as follows:\nSit, closing the eyes.\nConcentrate the mind and sight in between eyebrows.\nKeep watching there by focusing the attention.\nDo not repeat any mantra or name.\nDo not imagine anything.\nDo not open eyes until the duration of meditation is over.\nToday, initiation into this technique is given by Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj. He identifies the greatest secret of meditation as not analyzing any thoughts or visions that may appear:\nThis meditation is a purification process, but this purification doesn't occur quietly. During the purification, visions and thoughts come. It is just like when you are washing clothes; you see the dirt coming out into the water. In the same way, when the mind is going through the purification, then thoughts and visions occur. But they occur only for a moment, and then they disappear. That is why we need to be so careful in this regard, because if you are watching, then the mind can very easily get involved in the thought, and if it gets involved it can further acquire new imprints. This re-acquiring is so subtle. This is why it is so important not to analyze thoughts during meditation, and this is also why the total cleansing of the mind takes time. \n\nVisions and experiences are not important in meditation. The only symptom of progress is greater peace. After being totally cleansed through meditation, the mind becomes pure consciousness capable of realizing through deeper meditation (\"Samadhi\") its existence beyond imagination as the eternal Self. This state is known as Self Realization or Enlightenment.\n\n"}
{"id": "49499143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49499143", "title": "Joachim Ritter", "text": "Joachim Ritter\n\nJoachim Ritter (; April 3, 1903 – August 3, 1974) was a German philosopher and founder of the so-called Ritter School ().\n\nBorn in Geesthacht, Ritter studied philosophy, theology, German literature, and history in Heidelberg, Marburg, Freiburg and Hamburg. A disciple of Martin Heidegger and Ernst Cassirer, he obtained his doctorate with a dissertation on Nicolas of Cusa in 1925. Ritter was Cassirer's assistant and a lecturer at the University of Hamburg. A Marxist in the late 1920s and early 1930s, he became a member of the Nazi Party in 1937 and an officer of the German Wehrmacht in 1940. After World War II, Ritter was appointed professor of philosophy at the University of Münster.\n\nRitter's philosophical work focuses on a theory of modernity. In a liberal interpretation of Hegel's \"Philosophy of Right\", he developed the view that \"bifurcation\" is the constitutive structure of the modern world and a necessary precondition for the universal realization of individual freedom. According to Ritter's theory of culture as compensation, arts and humanities have the function of balancing the disenchanted, ahistorical condition of modern society. Alongside Hans-Georg Gadamer, his work on Aristotle's ethics and political theory initiated the renewal of practical philosophy in Germany.\n\nHe died in Münster.\n\nRitter is considered one of the most influential philosophers in postwar West Germany. Among his disciples were scholars and public intellectuals like Ernst-Wolfgang Böckenförde, Max Imdahl, Hermann Lübbe, Odo Marquard, and Robert Spaemann. Together with them, Ritter started the „Historisches Wörterbuch der Philosophie“ and contributed to development of conceptual history in the field of philosophy. In the 1980s, Jürgen Habermas opposed the Ritter School for being leading representatives of German neo-conservatism. More recent scholarship in intellectual history points out Ritter's seminal role for the modernization of German political thought and the development of a modern liberal republicanism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "442291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442291", "title": "John Harsanyi", "text": "John Harsanyi\n\nJohn Charles Harsanyi (; May 29, 1920 – August 9, 2000) was a Hungarian-American economist.\n\nHe is best known for his contributions to the study of game theory and its application to economics, specifically for his developing the highly innovative analysis of games of incomplete information, so-called Bayesian games. He also made important contributions to the use of game theory and economic reasoning in political and moral philosophy (specifically utilitarian ethics) as well as contributing to the study of equilibrium selection. For his work, he was a co-recipient along with John Nash and Reinhard Selten of the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. According to György Marx he was one of The Martians.\n\nHarsanyi was born on May 29, 1920 in Budapest, Hungary, the son of Alice Harsányi (née Gombos) and Károly Harsányi, a pharmacy owner. His parents converted from Judaism to Catholicism a year before he was born. He attended high school at the Lutheran Gymnasium in Budapest. In high school, he became one of the best problem solvers of the KöMaL, the Mathematical and Physical Monthly for Secondary Schools. Founded in 1893, this periodical is generally credited with a large share of Hungarian students' success in mathematics. He also won the first prize in the Eötvös mathematics competition for high school students.\n\nAlthough he wanted to study mathematics and philosophy, his father sent him to France in 1939 to enroll in chemical engineering at the University of Lyon. However, because of the start of World War II, Harsanyi returned to Hungary to study pharmacology at the University of Budapest (today: Eötvös Loránd University), earning a diploma in 1944. As a pharmacology student, Harsanyi escaped conscription into the Hungarian Army which, as a person of Jewish descent, would have meant forced labor.\n\nHowever, in 1944 (after the fall of the Horthy regime and the seizure of power by the Arrow Cross Party) his military deferment was cancelled and he was compelled to join a forced labor unit on the Eastern Front. After seven months of forced labor, when the German authorities decided to deport his unit to a concentration camp in Austria, John Harsanyi managed to escape and found sanctuary for the rest of the war in a Jesuit house.\n\nAfter the end of the war, Harsanyi returned to the University of Budapest for graduate studies in philosophy and sociology, earning his Ph.D. in both subjects in 1947. Then a devout Catholic, he simultaneously studied theology, also joining lay ranks of the Dominican Order. He later abandoned Catholicism, becoming an atheist for the rest of his life. Harsanyi spent the academic year 1947–1948 on the faculty of the Institute of Sociology of the University of Budapest, where he met Anne Klauber, his future wife. He was forced to resign the faculty because of openly expressing his anti-Marxist opinions, while Anne faced increasing peer pressure to leave him for the same reason.\n\nHarsanyi remained in Hungary for the following two years attempting to sell his family's pharmacy without losing it to the authorities. After it became apparent that the communist party would confiscate the pharmacy in 1950, he fled with Anne and her parents by illegally crossing the border into Austria and then going to Australia where Klauber's parents had some friends.\n\nThe two did not marry until they arrived in Australia because Klauber's immigration papers would need to be changed to reflect her married name. The two arrived with her parents on December 30, 1950, and they looked to marry immediately. Harsanyi and Klauber were married on January 2, 1951. Neither spoke much English and understood little of what they were told to say to each other. Harsanyi later explained to his new wife that she had promised to cook better food than she usually did.\n\nHarsanyi's Hungarian degrees were not recognized in Australia, but they earned him credit at the University of Sydney for a master's degree. Harsanyi worked in a factory during the day and studied economics in the evening at the University of Sydney, finishing with a M.A. in 1953. While studying in Sydney, he started publishing research papers in economic journals, including the \"Journal of Political Economy\" and the \"Review of Economic Studies\". The degree allowed him to take a teaching position in 1954 at the University of Queensland in Brisbane. While in Brisbane, Harsanyi's wife became a fashion designer for a small factory.\n\nIn 1956, Harsanyi received a Rockefeller scholarship that enabled him and Anne to spend the next two years in the United States, at Stanford University and, for a semester, at the Cowles Foundation. At Stanford Harsanyi wrote a dissertation in game theory under the supervision of Kenneth Arrow, earning a second PhD in economics in 1959, while Anne earned an MA in psychology. Harsanyi's student visa expired in 1958 and the two returned to Australia.\n\nAfter working for a short time as a researcher at the Australian National University in Canberra, Harsanyi became frustrated with the lack of interest in game theory in Australia. With the help of Kenneth Arrow and James Tobin, he was able to move to the United States, taking a position as professor of economics at the Wayne State University in Detroit between 1961 and 1963. In 1964, he moved to Berkeley, California; he remained at the University of California, Berkeley until retiring in 1990. Shortly after arriving in Berkeley, he and Anne had a child, Tom. While teaching at Berkeley, Harsanyi did extensive research in game theory. From 1966 to 1968, Harsanyi was part of a team of game theorists tasked with advising the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in collaboration with Mathematica, a consulting group from Princeton University led by Harold Kuhn and Oskar Morgenstern.\n\nJohn Harsanyi died on August 9, 2000, from a heart attack in Berkeley, California, after he suffered from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nHarsanyi began researching utilitarian ethics while at the University of Queensland in Brisbane. He published two papers explaining that before understanding moral problems, the difference between people's personal preferences and their moral preferences must be distinguished.\n\nAfter Nash's publications on game theory, Harsanyi became increasingly interested in the topic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2522313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522313", "title": "Jon Oberlander", "text": "Jon Oberlander\n\nJon Reid Oberlander FRSE (16 June 1962 – 19 December 2017) was Professor of Epistemics at the School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh. He received a BA in Philosophy from Pembroke College, Cambridge, in 1983 and a PhD in Cognitive Science from the University of Edinburgh in 1987.\n\nOberlander described three main strands in his research: intelligent labelling; affect in communication (e.g., in research on personality types in emails with Alastair Gill); and multimodal reasoning and communication (e.g., in research with Keith Stenning on diagrammatic reasoning).\n\nIn March 2016 Oberlander was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Scotland's National Academy for science and letters, where he served as a member of their Young People's committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "25306190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25306190", "title": "Jörgen Smit", "text": "Jörgen Smit\n\nJörgen Smit (July 21, 1916 in Bergen – May 10, 1991 in Arlesheim) was a Norwegian teacher, teachers teacher, speaker and writer, mainly in the context of the Anthroposophical Society and the Waldorfschool Movement. He was the general secretary of the Norwegian Anthroposophical Society, co-founder of the Rudolf Steiner Seminar in Järna, Sweden and member of the Executive Council of the General Anthroposophical Society at the Goetheanum in Dornach, Switzerland.\n\nJörgen Smit grew up as second of seven sons in Bergen later in Oslo. he studied Classical Philology in Oslo and Basel with Ancient greek as main subject. He worked from 1941 to 1965 as a teacher at the Bergen Rudolf Steiner (Waldorf) School. Next to being a teacher he started at early age as a lecturer and spoke to a wide range of subjects most of the time however in the context of Anthroposophy and Waldorf education. From 1966 to 1975 he built up the teacher-Seminar for Waldorf teachers in Järna, an adult training center which was co-founded by Jörgen Smit already 1961. In cooperation with the painter Arne Klingborg, the architect Erik Asmussen and the entrepreneur Åke Kumlander, amongst many others, a bigger center with a campus at the Baltic seashore devoted to anthroposophical inspired activities emerged.\n\n1975 he was appointed on the Executive counsel of the General Anthroposophical Society in Dornach, Switzerland. Next to his duties as an executive member of the counsel he also headed the youth section and later the pedagogical section of the Goetheanum. More than half of the 4889 lectures he gave during his lifetime were held during the 16 years in Dornach. He travelled as a lecturer on all continents lecturing in Norwegian German and English, Europe remained his main working area. Most of the printed works by Jörgen Smit derive from the lectures he gave.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1294418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294418", "title": "Karl Leonhard Reinhold", "text": "Karl Leonhard Reinhold\n\nKarl Leonhard Reinhold (26 October 1757 – 10 April 1823) was an Austrian philosopher who helped to popularise the work of Immanuel Kant in the late 18th century. His \"elementary philosophy\" (\"Elementarphilosophie\") also influenced German idealism, notably Johann Gottlieb Fichte, as a critical system grounded in a fundamental first principle.\n\nHe was the father of Ernst Christian Gottlieb Reinhold (1793–1855), also a philosopher.\n\nReinhold was born in Vienna. In late 1772, at the age of fourteen he entered the Jesuit college (Roman Catholic seminary) of St. Anne's Church, Vienna (Jesuitenkollegium St. Anna). He studied there for a year, until the order was suppressed in 1773, at which time he joined a similar Viennese Catholic college of the order of St. Barnabas, the Barnabitenkollegium St. Michael. In 1778 he became a teacher at the Barnabitenkollegium, on August 27, 1780 he was ordained as a priest, and on April 30, 1783 he became a member of the Viennese Freemasonry lodge \"Zur wahren Eintracht.\"\n\nFinding himself out of sympathy with monastic life, he fled on November 19, 1783 to Leipzig, where he converted to Protestantism. In 1784, after studying philosophy for a semester at Leipzig, he settled in Weimar, where he became Christoph Martin Wieland's collaborator on the \"German Mercury\" (\"Der Teutsche Merkur\"), and eventually his son-in-law. Reinhold married Wieland's daughter Sophia Catharina Susanna Wieland (October 19, 1768 – September 1, 1837) on May 18, 1785. In the \"German Mercury\" Reinhold published, in the years 1786–87, his \"Briefe über die Kantische Philosophie\" (\"Letters on the Kantian Philosophy\"), which were most important in making Immanuel Kant known to a wider circle of readers. As a result of these \"Letters\", Reinhold received a call to the University of Jena, where he taught from 1787 to 1794.\n\nIn 1788, Reinhold published \"Hebräischen Mysterien oder die älteste religiöse Freymaurerey\" (\"The Hebrew Mysteries; or, The Oldest Form of Freemasonry\") under the pseudonym \"Decius\". The fundamental idea of this work is that Moses derived his system from the Egyptian priesthood. He presented them in the form of two lectures in Leipzig that year.\n\nIn 1789 he published his chief work, the \"Versuch einer neuen Theorie des menschlichen Vorstellungsvermögens\" (\"Essay towards a New Theory of the Faculty of Representation\"), in which he attempted to simplify the Kantian theory and make it more of a unity by basing it on one principle, Reinhold's principle of consciousness (\"Satz des Bewußtseins\"). In 1794 he accepted a call to the University of Kiel, where he taught till his death in 1823, although his independent activity had come to an end.\n\nIn later life he was powerfully influenced by J. G. Fichte, and subsequently, on grounds of religious feeling, by F. H. Jacobi and Christoph Gottfried Bardili. However, his historical importance belongs entirely to his earlier activity. The development of the Kantian standpoint contained in the \"New Theory of Human Understanding (1789)\", and in the \"Fundament des philosophischen Wissens\" (1791), was called by its author \"Elementarphilosophie\".\n\n\"Reinhold lays greater emphasis than Kant upon the unity and activity of consciousness. The principle of consciousness tells us that every idea is related both to an object and a subject, and is partly to be distinguished from and partly united to both. Since form cannot produce matter and a subject cannot produce an object, we are forced to assume a thing-in-itself. This is a notion which is self-contradictory if consciousness were to be essentially a relating activity. There is therefore something which must be thought and yet cannot be thought.\"\n\nAs a former Catholic priest, Reinhold retained the values of Christian morality and individual dignity. The basic Christian doctrines of a transcendent God and an immortal human soul were presuppositions in his thinking. However, he disagreed with Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, who thought that the only way to avoid nihilism, fatalism, and atheism was to believe in the religious morality that was revealed by God. Reinhold tried to show that Kant's philosophy provided an alternative to either religious revelation or philosophical skepticism and fatalistic pantheism. But Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was a difficult and confusing book. It was not widely read and had little influence. Reinhold decided to write his comments on it in the literary journal \"The German Mercury\". He skipped over the beginning and middle of the book and started at the end. Reinhold showed that the book was best read backwards, that is, starting with the end section. The last part of the Critique is where Kant discussed the issues of morality and their relation to the Rational Ideas of God, Free Will, and life after death. These issues were Reinhold's main concern. By presenting these concerns to the public, instead of the extremely difficult epistemology that took up most of the beginning and middle of the book, Reinhold aroused great interest. As a result, Kant's Critique immediately became a book of great importance.\n\nAccording to historian of philosophy Karl Ameriks, \"Fichte, Hegel, Schelling, Schiller, Hölderlin, Novalis, and Friedrich Schlegel all developed their thought in reaction to Reinhold's reading of Kant...\" There is a Faustian tendency in Reinhold's assertion that a person can hope for a future reward only because that person is constantly striving to be good. It is not moral to be good merely in the hope of reward. Reinhold's emphasis on history is evident in his declaration that philosophies and religions are to be judged on the way that they respond to the needs of reason in a particular era. Philosophical development, to him, has an underlying rationality. New philosophies are fated to struggle repeatedly in order to survive in a dialectic of history in which progress is unconsciously occurring. With regard to a transcendent God, the human internal moral law is externalized in such a deity. This extreme otherness or alienation is part of a rational process. It makes possible a subsequent deeper regaining of the self through something other than the self.\n\nKant's critical philosophy was not being accepted as the final truth. According to Professor George di Giovanni, of McGill University, Reinhold tried to provide a foundation for Kant's philosophy in order to remedy this situation. Reinhold distinguished two levels of philosophy. The most basic level was the concern with consciousness and the representations that occurred in it. The second, less basic, level, was the concern with the possibility and structure of the known or desired objects.\n\nKant's important realization was that the possibility of metaphysics can be established. This can be done only by describing what occurs when the mind is conscious of objects. Kant's weakness was in being overly concerned with the objects themselves. He remained at the second, less basic, level of philosophy. He rarely examined what occurred in consciousness, which is the basic level of philosophy. Kant did not provide a phenomenological description of consciousness. Reinhold was convinced that Kant should have identified the fundamental fact of consciousness that was essential in making cognition itself possible.\n\nReinhold's \"Essay towards a New Theory of the Human Faculty of Representation\" is a description of the main parts and attributes of consciousness. In writing this book, Reinhold turned his attention from the moral issues that Kant addressed in the end section of his \"Critique of Pure Reason\" to the epistemological concerns of the beginning and middle sections.\n\nReinhold examined the necessary conditions of representation, such as subject and object, that must exist in order for an object to be consciously present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "1009112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009112", "title": "Kriyā", "text": "Kriyā\n\nKriyā (in Sanskrit \"action, deed, effort\") most commonly refers to a \"completed action\", technique or practice within a yoga discipline meant to achieve a specific result. Another meaning of Kriya is an outward physical manifestation of awakened kundalini, such as a spontaneous body movement related to Kundalini energy flow.\n\n\"Kriyā\" is a Sanskrit term, derived from the Sanskrit root, \"kri\", meaning \"to do\". \"Kriyā\" means \"action, deed, effort\". The word karma is also derived from the Sanskrit root \"\" (kri) , meaning \"to do, make, perform, accomplish, cause, effect, prepare, undertake\". Karma is related to verbal proto-Indo-European root *kwer- \"to make, form\".\n\nThe root \"kṛ\" (kri) is very common in ancient Sanskrit literature, and it is relied upon to explain ideas in Rigveda, other Vedas, Upanishads, Puranas, the Epics of Hinduism. The root \"kri\" also appears in the word Sanskrit, to imply a language that is \"well made\".\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita does not teach kriya yoga by name. Yogananda and his teachers have claimed that the practice itself is described in the \"Bhagavad Gita\". According to Paramahansa Yogananda in his book \"God Talks with Arjuna: The Bhagavad Gita\", Krishna describes kriya yoga as:\nThe Bihar School, which also teaches similar techniques of kriya yoga, claims that the descriptions of kriya yoga in the Yoga Sūtras and the Bhagavad Gīta are not related. \n\nThe \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" are generally viewed as a compendium of multiple traditions of yoga. According to Feuerstein, the \"Yoga Sutras\" are a condensation of two different traditions, namely \"eight limb yoga\" (\"ashtanga yoga\") and action yoga (\"Kriyā yoga\"), the description of the eight limbs being an interpolation into the text on \"kriya\".\nAccording to George Feuerstein, \"kriya yoga\" is contained in chapter 1, chapter 2 verse 1-27, chapter 3 except verse 54, and chapter 4. The \"eight limb yoga\" is described in chapter 2 verse 28-55, and chapter 3 verse 3 and 54.\n\nAccording to Miller, \"Kriya yoga\" is the \"active performance of yoga\". It is composed of part of the niyamas, \"observances\", the second limb of Patanjali's eight limbs. According to Miller, \"Kriya yoga\" is a threefold discipline, involving ascetic practice, the study and chanting of sacred hymns and syllables, and dedication to god.\n\nMiller also notes that some commentators regard the first five limbs together as \"kriya yoga\", but that Patanjali himself states \"kriya yoga\" to be a subset of the second limb.\n\nIt is notable, that the kriya yogi is therefor not bound by the other yamas and niyamas and hence is not bound by the rules of cleanliness, non-violence, truthfulness, chastity and various other seemingly monastic practices. This makes the kriya yogi potentially similar\n\nThe story of Lahiri Mahasaya receiving initiation into Kriya Yoga by the yogi Mahavatar Babaji in 1861 is recounted in \"Autobiography of a Yogi\". Yogananda wrote that at that meeting, Mahavatar Babaji told Lahiri Mahasaya, \"The Kriya Yoga that I am giving to the world through you in this nineteenth century, is a revival of the same science that Krishna gave millenniums ago to Arjuna; and was later known to Patanjali, and to Christ, St. John, St. Paul, and other disciples\". Yogananda also wrote that Babaji and Christ were in continual communion and together, \"have planned the spiritual technique of salvation for this age.\"\n\nSwami Sri Yukteswar Giri first told Yogananda, confirmed later directly by Mahavatar Babaji, that he had been chosen to bring Kriya Yoga to the West.. Yogananda then brought Kriya Yoga to the United States and Europe beginning in 1920 and continues to this day through his organization Self-Realization Fellowship. In India the fellowship is called Yogoda Satsanga Society of India.\n\nAccording to Yogananda,:\nSudarshan Kriya is a set of breathing techniques promoted since 1982 by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar.\n\nSudharshan Kriya employs a variety of breathing patterns.\n\nPublications on Babaji describe Kriya Yoga as practiced by Baba Haidakhan who died in 1984. Haidakhan Babaji, simply called \"Babaji\" or Bhole Baba by his students and devotees, was a teacher who appeared in northern India (Uttarakhand) and taught publicly from 1970 to 1984.\n\nSome modern teachers and institutions consider the entire Yoga Sutras to be Kriya Yoga, although Patanjali only relates the term Kriya Yoga to these three foundation practices (tapas, swadhyaya, Ishwara pranidhana). Breathing practices with attention along the spine are often included, along with other physical practices. It is useful for the student of yoga to be aware of these different approaches, so as to not get confused by the various public offerings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20123231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20123231", "title": "Manisola", "text": "Manisola\n\nThe Manisola was a holiday or feast celebrated by the Cathars, a Christian religious sect that emerged during the Middle Ages in the Languedoc region of France. It was a major initiation ceremony of the Perfecti, the members of the spiritual elite according to Cathar doctrine.\n"}
{"id": "1234674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234674", "title": "Marie de Gournay", "text": "Marie de Gournay\n\nMarie de Gournay (; 6 October 1565, Paris – 13 July 1645) was a French writer, who wrote a novel and a number of other literary compositions, including \"The Equality of Men and Women\" (\"Égalité des hommes et des femmes\", 1622) and \"The Ladies' Grievance\" (\"Grief des dames\", 1626). She insisted that women should be educated. Gournay was also an editor and commentator of Michel de Montaigne. After Montaigne's death, Gournay edited and published his \"Essays\".\n\nShe was born in Paris in 1565. Her father, Guillaume Le Jars, was treasurer to King Henry III of France. In 1568 he obtained feudal rights to the Gournay estate in Picardy, and in 1573, after he purchased the Neufvy estate, he became Seigneur de Neufvy et de Gournay. The family moved to Gournay-sur-Aronde after her father's sudden death in 1577.\n\nGournay was an autodidact. She studied the humanities and taught herself Latin. Her studies led her to discover the works of Michel de Montaigne. She met him 1588 by chance in Paris and became his \"adopted daughter\". She published her first book in 1594, \"Le Proumenoir de Monsieur de Montaigne\".\n\nAfter her mother's death in 1591, Marie moved to Paris, leaving the family home to her brother Charles, who was forced to sell it in 1608. Montaigne died the following year, and his widow, Françoise de la Chassaigne, provided Gournay with a copy of the \"Essays\" and charged her with its publication. In 1595 Gournay published the first posthumous edition of his \"Essays\" and in 1598 she published a revised edition. She settled in Paris, determined to earn a living from writing. She published a timely discussion on the education of children in 1608, \"Bienvenue à Monseigneur le Duc d'Anjou\". This work brought her to wider attention among Paris intellectuals. Her 1610 work \"Adieu de l'ame du Roy de France et de Navarre\" caused a scandal because it defended Jesuits, who were suspected of having conspired to assassinate King Henry IV. Gournay was attacked in the satirical pamphlet \"The Anti-Gournay\" and was pictured as an old shrew.\n\nIn Paris, Marie de Gournay met Henri Louis Habert de Montmor and the scholar Justus Lipsius presented her to Europe as a woman of letters. Gournay found herself protectors by writing for Queen Margo, Henry IV of France, Marie de Médicis, Louis XIII, the marquise de Guercheville, the ministers Villeroy and Jeannin. Queen Margo became her patron. Gournay was invited to the Queen's royal salon and received financial support on a quarterly basis.\n\nShe translated works by Sallust, Ovid, Virgil, and Tacitus. Gournay also wrote verses about her cat Léonore (also the name of Montaigne's daughter) and Joan of Arc, adapted Ronsard, wrote on the instruction of princes, and criticized the \"Précieuses\". In 1619 she published the translation \"Versions de quelques pièces de Virgile, Tacite, Salluste\" with a preface in which she opposed François de Malherbe's view that the French language had to be purged. Gournay was accused of being ridiculous, past-orientated, and of being an old maid. In turn, Gournay published a fierce defense of women's rights in 1622, \"Égalité des Hommes et des Femmes\", which she dedicated to Queen Anne d'Autriche. In 1624 she published a bold revision of Pierre de Ronsard's poem \"Remerciement, au Roy\".\nIn her 1626 novel \"Le Promenoir de M. de Montaigne qui traite de l’amour dans l’œuvre de Plutarque\" she explored the dangers women face when they become dependent on men. A collection of her works was published in 1626 entitled \"L'ombre de la damoiselle de Gournay\". She moved to an apartment on the rue Saint Honoré and helped to establish the French Academy. The small pension granted to her by Cardinal Richelieu allowed her to publish a 1635 edition of Montaigne's \"Essays\". In 1641 she published another collection of her own works \"Les Advis, ou les Presens de la Demoiselle de Gournay\". She died in 1645, aged 79, and is buried at the Saint-Eustache Church in Paris. Marie de Gournay is now recognized as the first woman in France to contribute to literary criticism and one of the first to argue forcibly on the equality of men and women. Her final collected works ran to nearly 1,000 pages.\n\nGournay's arguments for women's right to education had a religious underpinning. Gournay was Roman Catholic and known as an opponent of the Protestant movement in the French wars of religion. She advocated for women's education in two treatises, \"Égalité des Hommes et des Femmes\" (\"The Equality of Men and Women\"), published 1622, and \"Grief des Dames\" (\"The Ladies' Grievance\") published 1626. She argued that men and women were equal because \"the virtue of men and virtue of women are the same thing, since God bestowed on them the same creation and the same honor\".\n\n\"Happy are you, reader, if you do not belong to this sex to which all good is forbidden\"\n\nIn \"The Equality of Men and Women\" Gournay structured her argument similarly to Christine de Pizan, and started by profiling great women of the past to demonstrate the ability of women to learn. She avoided the discussion on superiority of one sex over the other by stressing the equality of men and women. But she attacked the notion that great women simply resembled great men. She argued that it was no surprise that women were perceived as incompetent, ignorant, and focused on their bodies, given that women received little education. Gournay argued that given the same opportunities, privileges, and education as men, women could equal men's accomplishments. In \"The Ladies' Grievance\" Gournay complained that women did not own property, exercise freedom, or have access to public office. She argued that educated women had the right to be heard, just as educated men do. Like René Descartes she separated the mind from the body, and argued that women were as capable as men.\n\n\nDe l'éducation des Enfans de France - Naissance des Enfans de France - Exclamation sur l'assassinat deplorable de l'année 1610 - Adieu de l'ame du Roy à la Reyne Regente son espouse - Priere pour l'ame du mesme Roy, escrite à son trépas - Gratification à Venise sur une victoire - Institution du Prince - Du langage François - De la medisance - Des fausses devotions, Si la vangeance est licite - Antipathie des ames basses et hautes - Consideration sur quelques contes de Cour - Advis à quelques gens d'Église - Que les grands esprits et les gens de bien s'entrecherchent - De la neantise de la commune vaillance de ce temps et du peu de prix de la qualité de Noblesse - Que l'integrité suit la vraye suffisance - Sur la version des Poètes antiques, ou des Metaphores - Chrysante, ou convalescence d'une petite fille - Des Vertus vicieuses - Des Rymes - Des diminutifs François - Des grimaces mondaines - De l'impertinente amitié - Des sottes ou presomptives finesses - Grief des Dames - Défense de la Poësie et du langage des Poètes - Advis sur la nouvelle edition du Promenoir - Promenoir - Apologie pour celle qui escrit - Lettre sur l'art de traduire les Orateurs - Version d'une Oraison de Tacite - Version d'une Oraison de Salluste - Epistre de Laodamie traduicte d'Ovide - Seconde Philippique de Ciceron traduicte - De la façon d'escrire de Messieurs du Perron et Bertault, qui sert d'Advertissement sur les Poesies de ce volume - Partie du Premier de l'Æneide, commençant où monsieur le Cardinal du Perron acheve de le traduire - Second de l'Æneide traduict - Partie du Quatriesme de l'Æneide, commençant comme dessus après monsieur le Cardinal, Bouquet de Pynde, composé de fleurs diverses - Si ce Livre me survit… \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30722580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30722580", "title": "Mark Kelman", "text": "Mark Kelman\n\nMark Kelman (born August 20, 1951) is jurist and vice dean of Stanford Law School. As a prominent legal scholar, he has applied social science methodologies, including economics and psychology, to the study of law. He is one of the most cited law professors. He is regarded as one of the co-founders of the critical legal studies movement and authored \"A Guide to Critical Legal Studies.\" He is widely known for his influential 1978 critique of the Coase theorem, a core part of law and economics.\n\nBeing a published novelist, Kelman is well aware of the role of narrative in forming a sense of personal identity - as also of the way narratives may be incriminating or exculpatory, depending on the time frame used.\n\nThus, for example, when viewed in a long enough time-frame, a criminal act which appears at first sight the result of individual responsibility \"may\", Kelman suggests, be instead the deterministic result of socio-economic conditions.\n\nKelman argues that much in the law involves providing rational interpretative constructs that surround a non-rational core – what he terms 'rational rhetoricism' with the result that, in his words, \"It is illuminating and disquieting to see that we are nonrationally constructing the legal world over and over again...\".\n\nStanley Fish has proposed in rebuttal that such rhetorical constructs are in fact a necessary aspect of the human condition, and thus an inevitable facet of the legal world as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "796629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796629", "title": "Max Scheler", "text": "Max Scheler\n\nMax Ferdinand Scheler (; 22 August 1874 – 19 May 1928) was a German philosopher known for his work in phenomenology, ethics, and philosophical anthropology. Scheler developed further the philosophical method of the founder of phenomenology, Edmund Husserl, and was called by José Ortega y Gasset \"the first man of the philosophical paradise.\" After his death in 1928, Martin Heidegger affirmed, with Ortega y Gasset, that all philosophers of the century were indebted to Scheler and praised him as \"the strongest philosophical force in modern Germany, nay, in contemporary Europe and in contemporary philosophy as such.\" In 1954, Karol Wojtyła, later Pope John Paul II, defended his doctoral thesis on \"An Evaluation of the Possibility of Constructing a Christian Ethics on the Basis of the System of Max Scheler.\"\n\nMax Scheler was born in Munich, Germany on 22 August 1874 to a Lutheran father and an Orthodox Jewish mother. As an adolescent, he turned to Catholicism although he became increasingly non-committal around 1921. After 1921 he disassociated himself in public from Catholicism and the Judeo-Christian God, committing himself to philosophical anthropology.\n\nScheler studied medicine at the University of Munich. He also studied philosophy and sociology under Wilhelm Dilthey, Carl Stumpf and Georg Simmel at the University of Berlin. He received his doctorate in 1897 at Munich with a thesis entitled \"Beiträge zur Feststellung der Beziehungen zwischen den logischen und ethischen Prinzipien\". He earned his habilitation in 1899 at the University of Jena with a thesis entitled \"Die transzendentale und die psychologische Methode\" and directed by Rudolf Eucken, and became \"Privatdozent\" there in 1901. Throughout his life, Scheler entertained a strong interest in the philosophy of American pragmatism (Eucken corresponded with William James).\n\nHe taught at Jena from 1900 to 1906. From 1907 to 1910, he taught at the University of Munich, where his study of Edmund Husserl's phenomenology deepened. Scheler had first met Husserl at Halle in 1902. At Munich, Husserl's own teacher Franz Brentano was still lecturing, and Scheler joined the Phenomenological Circle in Munich, centred around M. Beck, Th. Conrad, J. Daubert, M. Geiger, Dietrich von Hildebrand, Theodor Lipps, and Alexander Pfänder. Scheler was never a student of Husserl's and overall, their relationship remained strained. Scheler, in later years, was rather critical of the \"master's\" \"Logical Investigations\" (1900/01) and \"Ideas I\" (1913), and he also was to harbour reservations about \"Being and Time\" by Martin Heidegger. Due to personal matters he was caught up in the conflict between the predominantly Catholic university and the local socialist media, which led to the loss of his Munich teaching position in 1910. From 1910 to 1911, Scheler briefly lectured at the Philosophical Society of Göttingen, where he made and renewed acquaintances with Theodore Conrad, Hedwig Conrad-Martius (an ontologist and Conrad's wife), Moritz Geiger, Jean Hering, Roman Ingarden, Dietrich von Hildebrand, Husserl, Alexandre Koyré, and Adolf Reinach. Edith Stein was one of his students, impressed by him \"way beyond philosophy\". Thereafter, he moved to Berlin as an unattached writer and grew close to Walther Rathenau and Werner Sombart.\n\nScheler has exercised a notable influence on Catholic circles to this day, including his student Stein and Pope John Paul II who wrote his \"Habilitation\" and many articles on Scheler's philosophy. Along with other Munich phenomenologists such as Reinach, Pfänder and Geiger, he co-founded in 1912 the famous \"Jahrbuch für Philosophie und phänomenologische Forschung\", with Husserl as main editor.\n\nWhen his first marriage, to Amalie von Dewitz, had ended in divorce, Scheler married Märit Furtwängler in 1912, who was the sister of the noted conductor Wilhelm Furtwängler. During World War I (1914–1918), Scheler was initially drafted but later discharged because of astigmia of the eyes. He was passionately devoted to the defence of both the war and Germany's cause during the conflict. His conversion to Catholicism dates to this period.\n\nIn 1919 he became professor of philosophy and sociology at the University of Cologne. He stayed there until 1928. Early that year, he accepted a new position at the University of Frankfurt. There he looked forward to conversing with Ernst Cassirer, Karl Mannheim, Rudolph Otto and Richard Wilhelm, all of whom are occasionally referred to in his writings. In 1927 at a conference in Darmstadt, near Frankfurt, arranged by Hermann Keyserling, Scheler delivered a lengthy lecture entitled 'Man's Particular Place' (\"Die Sonderstellung des Menschen\"), published later in much abbreviated form as \"Die Stellung des Menschen im Kosmos\" [literally: 'Man's Position in the Cosmos']. His well-known oratorical style and delivery captivated his audience for about four hours.\n\nTowards the end of his life many invitations were extended to him from China, India, Japan, and Russia. \nOn the advice of his physician, he cancelled reservations on the Star Line to the United States.\n\nAt the time Scheler increasingly focused on political development. He met the Russian emigrant-philosopher Nikolai Berdyaev in Berlin in 1923. Scheler was the only scholar of rank of the then German intelligentsia who gave warning in public speeches delivered as early as 1927 of the dangers of the growing National Socialist movement and Marxism. 'Politics and Morals', 'The Idea of Eternal Peace and Pacifism' were subjects of talks he delivered in Berlin in 1927. In his analyses of capitalism Scheler argued that capitalism was a calculating, globally growing 'mind-set', rather than an economic system. While economic capitalism may have had some roots in ascetic Calvinism (cf. Max Weber), its very mind-set, however, is argued by Scheler to have had its origin in modern, subconscious \"angst\" as expressed in increasing needs for financial and other securities, for protection and personal safeguards as well as for rational manageability of all entities. However, the subordination of the value of the individual person to this mind-set was sufficient reason for Max Scheler to denounce it and to outline and predict a whole new era of culture and values, which he called 'The World-Era of Adjustment'.\n\nScheler also advocated an international university to be set up in Switzerland and was at that time supportive of programs such as 'continuing education' and of what he seems to have been the first to call a 'United States of Europe'. He deplored the gap existing in Germany between power and mind, a gap which he regarded as the very source of an impending dictatorship and the greatest obstacle to the establishment of German democracy. Five years after his death, the Nazi dictatorship (1933–1945) suppressed Scheler's work.\n\nWhen the editors of \"Geisteswissenschaften\" invited Scheler (about 1913/14) to write on the then developing philosophical method of phenomenology, Scheler indicated a reservation concerning the task because he could only report his own viewpoint on phenomenology and there was no \"phenomenological school\" defined by universally accepted theses. There was only a circle of philosophers bound by a \"common bearing and attitude toward philosophical problems.\" Scheler never agreed with Husserl that phenomenology is a method in the strict sense, but rather \"an attitude of spiritual seeing...something which otherwise remains hidden...\" Calling phenomenology a method fails to take seriously the phenomenological domain of original experience: the givenness of phenomenological facts (essences or values as \"a priori\") \"before they have been fixed by logic,\" and prior to assuming a set of criteria or symbols, as is the case in the empirical and human sciences as well as other (modern) philosophies which tailor their methods to those of the sciences.\n\nRather, that which is given in phenomenology \"is given only in the seeing and experiencing act itself.\" The essences are never given to an 'outside' observer with no direct contact with the thing itself. Phenomenology is an engagement of phenomena, while simultaneously a waiting for its self-givenness; it is not a methodical procedure of observation as if its object is stationary. Thus, the particular attitude (\"Geisteshaltung\", lit. \"disposition of the spirit\" or \"spiritual posture\") of the philosopher is crucial for the disclosure, or seeing, of phenomenological facts. This attitude is fundamentally a moral one, where the strength of philosophical inquiry rests upon the basis of love. Scheler describes the essence of philosophical thinking as \"\"a love-determined movement of the inmost personal self of a finite being toward participation in the essential reality of all possibles\".\"\n\nThe movement and act of love is important for philosophy for two reasons: (1) If philosophy, as Scheler describes it, hearkening back to the Platonic tradition, is a participation in a \"primal essence of all essences\" (\"Urwesen\"), it follows that for this participation to be achieved one must incorporate within oneself the content or essential characteristic of the primal essence. For Scheler, such a primal essence is most characterized according to love, thus the way to achieve the most direct and intimate participation is precisely to share in the movement of love. It is important to mention, however, that this primal essence is not an objectifiable entity whose possible correlate is knowledge; thus, even if philosophy is always concerned with knowing, as Scheler would concur, nevertheless, reason itself is not the proper participative faculty by which the greatest level of knowing is achieved. Only when reason and logic have behind them the movement of love and the proper moral preconditions can one achieve philosophical knowledge. (2) Love is likewise important insofar as its essence is the condition for the possibility of the givenness of value-objects and especially the givenness of an object in terms of its highest possible value. Love is the movement which \"brings about the continuous emergence of ever-higher value in the object--just as if it was streaming out from the object of its own accord, without any sort of exertion...on the part of the lover. ...true love opens our spiritual eyes to ever-higher values in the object loved.\" Hatred, on the other hand, is the closing off of oneself or closing ones eyes to the world of values. It is in the latter context that value-inversions or devaluations become prevalent, and are sometimes solidified as proper in societies. Furthermore, by calling love a movement, Scheler hopes to dispel the interpretation that love and hate are only reactions to felt values rather than the very ground for the possibility of value-givenness (or value-concealment). Scheler writes, \"Love and hate are acts in which the value-realm accessible to the feelings of a being...is either \"extended\" or \"narrowed\".\" Love and hate are to be distinguished from sensible and even psychical feelings; they are, instead, characterized by an intentional function (one always loves or hates \"something\") and therefore must belong to the same anthropological sphere as theoretical consciousness and the acts of willing and thinking. Scheler, therefore calls love and hate, \"spiritual feelings,\" and are the basis for an \"emotive \"a priori\"\" insofar as values, through love, are given in the same manner as are essences, through cognition. In short, love is a value-cognition, and insofar as it is determinative of the way in which a philosopher approaches the world, it is also indicative of a phenomenological attitude.\n\nA fundamental aspect of Scheler's phenomenology is the extension of the realm of the \"a priori\" to include not only formal propositions, but material ones as well. Kant's identification of the \"a priori\" with the formal was a \"fundamental error\" which is the basis of his ethical formalism. Furthermore, Kant erroneously identified the realm of the non-formal (material) with sensible or empirical content. The heart of Scheler's criticism of Kant is within his theory of values. Values are given \"a priori\", and are \"feelable\" phenomena. The intentional feeling of love discloses values insofar as love opens a person evermore to beings-of-value (\"Wertsein\").\n\nAdditionally, values are not formal realities; they do not exist somewhere apart from the world and their bearers, and they only exist with a value-bearer, as a value-being. They are, therefore, part of the realm of a material \"a priori\". Nevertheless, values can vary with respect to their bearers without there ever occurring an alteration in the object as bearer. E.g., the value of a specific work of art or specific religious articles may vary according to differences of culture and religion. However, this variation of values with respect to their bearers by no means amounts to the relativity of values as such, but only with respect to the particular value-bearer. As such, the values of culture are always spiritual irrespective of the objects that may bear this value, and values of the holy still remain the highest values regardless of their bearers. According to Scheler, the disclosure of the value-being of an object precedes representation. The axiological reality of values is given prior to knowing, but, upon being felt through value-feeling, can be known (as to their essential interconnections). Values and their corresponding disvalues are ranked according to their essential interconnections as follows:\n\n\nFurther essential interconnections apply with respect to a value's (disvalue's) existence or non-existence:\n\n\nAnd with respect to values of good and evil:\n\n\nGoodness, however, is not simply \"attached\" to an act of willing, but originates ultimately within the disposition (\"Gesinnung\") or \"basic moral tenor\" of the acting person. Accordingly:\n\n\nScheler argued that most of the older ethical systems (Kantian formalism, theonomic ethics, nietzscheanism, hedonism, consequentialism, and platonism, for example) fall into axiological error by emphasizing one value-rank to the exclusion of the others. A novel aspect of Scheler's ethics is the importance of the \"kairos\" or call of the hour. Moral rules cannot guide the person to make ethical choices in difficult, existential life-choices. For Scheler, the very capacity to obey rules is rooted in the basic moral tenor of\nthe person.\n\nA disorder \"of the heart\" occurs whenever a person prefers a value of a lower rank to a higher rank, or a disvalue to a value.\n\nThe term \"Wertsein\" or value-being is used by Scheler in many contexts, but his untimely death prevented him from working out an axiological ontology. Another unique and controversial element of Scheler's axiology is the notion of the emotive a priori: values can only be felt, just as color can only be seen. Reason cannot think values; the mind can only\norder categories of value after lived experience has happened. For Scheler, the person is the locus of value-experience, a timeless act-being that acts into time. Scheler's appropriation of a value-based metaphysics renders his phenomenology quite different from the phenomenology of consciousness (Husserl, Sartre) or the existential analysis of the being-in-the-world of \"Dasein\" (Heidegger). Scheler's concept of the \"lived body\" was appropriated in the early work of Maurice Merleau-Ponty.\n\nMax Scheler extended the phenomenological method to include a reduction of the scientific method too, thus questioning the idea of Husserl that phenomenological philosophy should be pursued as a rigorous science. Natural and scientific attitudes (\"Einstellung\") are both phenomenologically counterpositive and hence must be sublated in the advancement of the real phenomenological reduction which, in the eyes of Scheler, has more the shapes of an allround ascesis (\"Askese\") rather than a mere logical procedure of suspending the existential judgments. The \"Wesenschau\", according to Scheler, is an act of breaking down the Sosein limits of Sein A into the essential-ontological domain of Sein B, in short, an ontological participation of \"Sosenheiten\", seeing the things as such (cf. the Buddhist concept of \"tathata\", and the Christian theological \"quidditas\").\n\nScheler planned to publish his major work in Anthropology in 1929, but the completion of such a project was curtailed by his premature death in 1928. Some fragments of such work have been published in \"Nachlass\". In 1924, \"Man and History\" (\"Mensch und Geschichte\"), Scheler gave some preliminary statements on the range and goal of philosophical anthropology.\n\nIn this book, Scheler argues for a tabula rasa of all the inherited prejudices from the three main traditions that have formulated an idea of man: religion, philosophy and science. Scheler argues that is not enough to just reject such traditions, as did Nietzsche with the Judeo-Christian religion by saying that \"God is dead\"; these traditions have impregnated all parts of our culture, and therefore still determine a great deal of the way of thinking even of those that don't believe in the Christian God. To really get freedom from such traditions it is necessary to study and deconstruct them (Husserl's term \"Abbau\").\n\nScheler says that philosophical anthropology must address the totality of man, while it must be informed by the specialized sciences like biology, psychology, sociology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42242134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42242134", "title": "Moral intellectualism", "text": "Moral intellectualism\n\nMoral intellectualism or ethical intellectualism is a view in meta-ethics according to which genuine moral knowledge must take the form of arriving at discursive moral judgements about what one should do.\nOne way of understanding this is that if we know what is right, we will do what is right. However, it can also be interpreted as the understanding that a rationally consistent worldview and theoretical way of life, as exemplified by Socrates, is superior to the life devoted to a moral (but merely practical) life. \n\nIn the view of Socrates (469–399 BC), intellectualism allows that “one will do what is right or best just as soon as one truly understands what is right or best”; that virtue is a purely intellectual matter, since virtue and knowledge are cerebral relatives, which a person accrues and improves with dedication to reason. So defined, Socratic intellectualism became a key philosophic doctrine of Stoicism. The Stoics are well known for their teaching that the good is to be identified with virtue.\n\nThe apparent, problematic consequences of this view are “Socratic paradoxes”, such as the view that there is no weakness of will — that no one knowingly does, or seeks to do, evil (moral wrong); that anyone who does, or seeks to do, moral wrong does so involuntarily; and that virtue is knowledge, that there are not many virtues, but that all virtues are one. The following are among the so-called Socratic Paradoxes:\n\nContemporary philosophers dispute that Socrates’s conceptions of knowing truth, and of ethical conduct, can be equated with modern, post–Cartesian conceptions of knowledge and of rational intellectualism. \n\nTypically, such care of the self-involved specific ascetic exercises meant to ensure that not only was knowledge of truth memorized, but learned, and then integrated to the self, in the course of transforming oneself into a good person. Therefore, to understand truth meant “intellectual knowledge” requiring one’s integration to the (universal) truth, and authentically living it in one’s speech, heart, and conduct. Achieving that difficult task required continual care of the self, but also meant being someone who embodies truth, and so can readily practice the Classical-era rhetorical device of parrhesia: “to speak candidly, and to ask forgiveness for so speaking”; and, by extension, practice the moral obligation to speak the truth for the common good, even at personal risk. This ancient, Socratic moral philosophic perspective contradicts the contemporary understanding of truth and knowledge as rational undertakings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1896541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896541", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Belarus", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Belarus\n\nAwards and decorations of Belarus are governed by the Law of the Republic of Belarus on State Awards of 18 May 2004.\n\nThe highest award is the title of the Hero of Belarus. The law also specifies orders, medals and honorary titles of Belarus.\n\nAdditionally the President can introduce jubilee medals (юбiлейныя мядалi) on occasions of important anniversaries observed in Belarus.\n\nHonorary titles are introduced for various categories of professions and occupations. The honorary titles are accompanied by the corresponding diploma and badges.\n\nIn 1949, the Rada of the Belarusian Democratic Republic in exile under President Mikola Abramchyk has introduced a number of civic and military awards. There has been a number of decorations in the 1950s.\n\nIn 2016, the Rada of the BDR has announced plans to renew the decorations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "200340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200340", "title": "Perennial philosophy", "text": "Perennial philosophy\n\nPerennial philosophy (), also referred to as perennialism and perennial wisdom, is a perspective in modern spirituality that views each of the world's religious traditions as sharing a single, metaphysical truth or origin from which all esoteric and exoteric knowledge and doctrine has grown.\n\nPerennialism has its roots in the Renaissance interest in neo-Platonism and its idea of The One, from which all existence emanates. Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499) sought to integrate \"Hermeticism\" with Greek and Jewish-Christian thought, discerning a Prisca theologia which could be found in all ages. Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–94) suggested that truth could be found in many, rather than just two, traditions. He proposed a harmony between the thought of Plato and Aristotle, and saw aspects of the \"Prisca theologia\" in Averroes, the Koran, the Cabala and other sources. Agostino Steuco (1497–1548) coined the term \"philosophia perennis\".\n\nA more popular interpretation argues for universalism, the idea that all religions, underneath seeming differences point to the same Truth. In the early 19th century the Transcendentalists propagated the idea of a metaphysical Truth and universalism, which inspired the Unitarians, who proselytized among Indian elites. Towards the end of the 19th century, the Theosophical Society further popularized universalism, not only in the western world, but also in western colonies. In the 20th century universalism was further popularized in the English-speaking world through the neo-Vedanta inspired Traditionalist School, which argues for a metaphysical, single origin of the orthodox religions, and by Aldous Huxley and his book \"The Perennial Philosophy\", which was inspired by neo-Vedanta and the Traditionalist School.\n\nThe idea of a perennial philosophy originated with a number of Renaissance theologians who took inspiration from neo-Platonism and from the theory of Forms. Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499) argued that there is an underlying unity to the world, the soul or love, which has a counterpart in the realm of ideas. According to Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–1494), a student of Ficino, truth could be found in many, rather than just two, traditions. According to Agostino Steuco (1497–1548) there is \"one principle of all things, of which there has always been one and the same knowledge among all peoples.\"\n\nThe contemporary, scholarly oriented Traditionalist School continues this metaphysical orientation. According to the Traditionalist School, the perennial philosophy is \"absolute Truth and infinite Presence.\" Absolute Truth is \"the perennial wisdom (\"sophia perennis\") that stands as the transcendent source of all the intrinsically orthodox religions of humankind.\" Infinite Presence is \"the perennial religion (\"religio perennis\") that lives within the heart of all intrinsically orthodox religions.\" The Traditionalist School discerns a transcendent and an immanent dimension, namely the discernment of the Real or Absolute, c.q. that which is permanent; and the intentional \"mystical concentration on the Real.\"\n\nAccording to Soares de Azevedo, the perennialist philosophy states that the universal truth is the same within each of the world's orthodox religious traditions, and is the foundation of their religious knowledge and doctrine. Each world religion is an interpretation of this universal truth, adapted to cater for the psychological, intellectual, and social needs of a given culture of a given period of history. This perennial truth has been rediscovered in each epoch by mystics of all kinds who have revived already existing religions, when they had fallen into empty platitudes and hollow ceremonialism.\n\nShipley further notes that the Traditionalist School is oriented on orthodox traditions, and rejects modern syncretism and universalism, which creates new religions from older religions and compromise the standing traditions.\n\nOne such universalist was Aldous Huxley, who propagated a universalist interpretation of the world religions, inspired by Vivekananda's neo-Vedanta. According to Aldous Huxley, who popularized the idea of a perennial philosophy with a larger audience,\nIn Huxley's 1944 essay in \"Vedanta and the West\", he describes \"The Minimum Working Hypothesis\"; the basic outline of the perennial philosophy found in all the mystic branches of the religions of the world:\n\nThe perennial philosophy originates from a blending of neo-Platonism and Christianity. Neo-Platonism itself has diverse origins in the syncretic culture of the Hellenistic period, and was an influential philosophy throughout the Middle Ages.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, Alexander the Great's campaigns brought about exchange of cultural ideas on its path throughout most of the known world of his era. The Greek Eleusinian Mysteries and Dionysian Mysteries mixed with such influences as the Cult of Isis, Mithraism and Hinduism, along with some Persian influences. Such cross-cultural exchange was not new to the Greeks; the Egyptian god Osiris and the Greek god Dionysus had been equated as Osiris-Dionysus by the historian Herodotus as early as the 5th century BC (see Interpretatio graeca).\n\nPhilo of Alexandria (c.25 BCE – c.50 CE) attempted to reconcile Greek Rationalism with the Torah, which helped pave the way for Christianity with Neo-Platonism, and the adoption of the Old Testament with Christianity, as opposed to Gnostic Marcion roots of Christianity. Philo translated Judaism into terms of Stoic, Platonic and Neopythagorean elements, and held that God is \"supra rational\" and can be reached only through \"ecstasy.\" He also held that the oracles of God supply the material of moral and religious knowledge.\n\nNeoplatonism arose in the 3rd century CE and persisted until shortly after the closing of the Platonic Academy in Athens in AD 529 by Justinian I. Neoplatonists were heavily influenced by Plato, but also by the Platonic tradition that thrived during the six centuries which separated the first of the Neoplatonists from Plato. The work of Neoplatonic philosophy involved describing the derivation of the whole of reality from a single principle, \"the One.\" It was founded by Plotinus, and has been very influential throughout history. In the Middle Ages, Neoplatonic ideas were integrated into the philosophical and theological works of many of the most important medieval Islamic, Christian, and Jewish thinkers.\n\nMarsilio Ficino (1433–1499) believed that Hermes Trismegistos, the supposed author of the \"Corpus Hermeticum\", was a contemporary of Mozes and the teacher of Pythagoras, and the source of both Greek and Jewish-Christian thought. He argued that there is an underlying unity to the world, the soul or love, which has a counterpart in the realm of ideas. Platonic Philosophy and Christian theology both embody this truth. Ficino was influenced by a variety of philosophers including Aristotelian Scholasticism and various pseudonymous and mystical writings. Ficino saw his thought as part of a long development of philosophical truth, of ancient pre-Platonic philosophers (including Zoroaster, Hermes Trismegistus, Orpheus, Aglaophemus and Pythagoras) who reached their peak in Plato. The Prisca theologia, or venerable and ancient theology, which embodied the truth and could be found in all ages, was a vitally important idea for Ficino.\n\nGiovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–94), a student of Ficino, went further than his teacher by suggesting that truth could be found in many, rather than just two, traditions. This proposed a harmony between the thought of Plato and Aristotle, and saw aspects of the \"Prisca theologia\" in Averroes, the Koran, the Cabala among other sources. After the deaths of Pico and Ficino this line of thought expanded, and included Symphorien Champier, and Francesco Giorgio.\n\nThe term \"perenni philosophia\" was first used by Agostino Steuco (1497–1548) who used it to title a treatise, \"De perenni philosophia libri X\", published in 1540. \"De perenni philosophia\" was the most sustained attempt at philosophical synthesis and harmony. Steuco represents the liberal wing of 16th-century Biblical scholarship and theology, although he rejected Luther and Calvin. \"De perenni philosophia\", is a complex work which only contains the term philosophia perennis twice. It states that there is \"one principle of all things, of which there has always been one and the same knowledge among all peoples.\" This single knowledge (or sapientia) is the key element in his philosophy. In that he emphasises continuity over progress, Steuco's idea of philosophy is not one conventionally associated with the Renaissance. Indeed, he tends to believe that the truth is lost over time and is only preserved in the prisci theologica. Steuco preferred Plato to Aristotle and saw greater congruence between the former and Christianity than the latter philosopher. He held that philosophy works in harmony with religion and should lead to knowledge of God, and that truth flows from a single source, more ancient than the Greeks. Steuco was strongly influenced by Iamblichus's statement that knowledge of God is innate in all, and also gave great importance to Hermes Trismegistus.\n\nSteuco's perennial philosophy was highly regarded by some scholars for the two centuries after its publication, then largely forgotten until it was rediscovered by Otto Willmann in the late part of the 19th century. Overall, \"De perenni philosophia\" wasn't particularly influential, and largely confined to those with a similar orientation to himself. The work was not put on the Index of works banned by the Roman Catholic Church, although his \"Cosmopoeia\" which expressed similar ideas was. Religious criticisms tended to the conservative view that held Christian teachings should be understood as unique, rather than seeing them as perfect expressions of truths that are found everywhere. More generally, this philosophical syncretism was set out at the expense of some of the doctrines included within it, and it is possible that Steuco's critical faculties were not up to the task he had set himself. Further, placing so much confidence in the prisca theologia, turned out to be a shortcoming as many of the texts used in this school of thought later turned out to be bogus. In the following two centuries the most favourable responses were largely Protestant and often in England.\n\nGottfried Leibniz later picked up on Steuco's term. The German philosopher stands in the tradition of this concordistic philosophy; his philosophy of harmony especially had affinity with Steuco's ideas. Leibniz knew about Steuco's work by 1687, but thought that \"De la Verite de la Religion Chretienne\" by Huguenot philosopher Phillippe du Plessis-Mornay expressed the same truth better. Steuco's influence can be found throughout Leibniz's works, but the German was the first philosopher to refer to the perennial philosophy without mentioning the Italian.\n\nRalph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882) was a pioneer of the idea of spirituality as a distinct field. He was one of the major figures in Transcendentalism, an early 19th-century liberal Protestant movement, which was rooted in English and German Romanticism, the Biblical criticism of Herder and Schleiermacher, and the skepticism of Hume. The Transcendentalists emphasised an intuitive, experiential approach of religion. Following Schleiermacher, an individual's intuition of truth was taken as the criterion for truth. In the late 18th and early 19th century, the first translations of Hindu texts appeared, which were also read by the Transcendentalists, and influenced their thinking. They also endorsed universalist and Unitarianist ideas, leading to Unitarian Universalism, the idea that there must be truth in other religions as well, since a loving God would redeem all living beings, not just Christians.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the idea of a perennial philosophy was popularized by leaders of the Theosophical Society such as H. P. Blavatsky and Annie Besant, under the name of \"Wisdom-Religion\" or \"Ancient Wisdom\". The Theosophical Society took an active interest in Asian religions, subsequently not only bringing those religions under the attention of a western audience but also influencing Hinduism and Buddhism in Sri Lanka and Japan.\n\nMany perennialist thinkers (including Armstrong, Huston Smith and Joseph Campbell) are influenced by Hindu reformer Ram Mohan Roy and Hindu mystics Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda, who themselves have taken over western notions of universalism. They regarded Hinduism to be a token of this perennial philosophy. This notion has influenced thinkers who have proposed versions of the perennial philosophy in the 20th century.\n\nThe unity of all religions was a central impulse among Hindu reformers in the 19th century, who in turn influenced many 20th-century perennial philosophy-type thinkers. Key figures in this reforming movement included two Bengali Brahmins. Ram Mohan Roy, a philosopher and the founder of the modernising Brahmo Samaj religious organisation, reasoned that the divine was beyond description and thus that no religion could claim a monopoly in their understanding of it.\n\nThe mystic Ramakrishna's spiritual ecstasies included experiencing the sameness of Christ, Mohammed and his own Hindu deity. Ramakrishna's most famous disciple, Swami Vivekananda, travelled to the United States in the 1890s where he formed the Vedanta Society.\n\nRoy, Ramakrishna and Vivekananda were all influenced by the Hindu school of Advaita Vedanta, which they saw as the exemplification of a Universalist Hindu religiosity.\n\nThe Traditionalist School was a group of 20th century thinkers concerned with what they considered to be the demise of traditional forms of knowledge, both aesthetic and spiritual, within Western society. The principal thinkers in this tradition are René Guénon, Ananda Coomaraswamy and Frithjof Schuon. Other important thinkers in this tradition include Titus Burckhardt, Martin Lings, Jean-Louis Michon, Marco Pallis, Huston Smith, Hossein Nasr, Jean Borella, Elémire Zolla. According to the Traditionalist School, orthodox religions are based on a singular metaphysical origin. According to the Traditionalist School, the \"philosophia perennis\" designates a worldview that is opposed to the scientism of modern secular societies and which promotes the rediscovery of the wisdom traditions of the pre-secular developed world. This view is exemplified by Rene Guenon in his \"magnum opus\" and one of the founding works of the traditionalist school, \"The Reign of Quantity and the Signs of the Times\".\n\nAccording to Frithjof Schuon:\nThe term was popularized in more recent times by Aldous Huxley, who was profoundly influenced by Vivekananda's Neo-Vedanta and Universalism. In his 1945 book \"The Perennial Philosophy\" he defined the perennial philosophy as:\nIn contrast to the Traditionalist school, Huxley emphasized mystical experience over metaphysics:\nAccording to Aldous Huxley, in order to apprehend the divine reality, one must choose to fulfill certain conditions: \"making themselves loving, pure in heart and poor in spirit.\" Huxley argues that very few people can achieve this state. Those who have fulfilled these conditions, grasped the universal truth and interpreted it have generally been given the name of saint, prophet, sage or enlightened one. Huxley argues that those who have, \"modified their merely human mode of being,\" and have thus been able to comprehend \"more than merely human kind and amount of knowledge\" have also achieved this enlightened state.\n\nThe idea of a perennial philosophy is central to the New Age Movement. The New Age movement is a Western spiritual movement that developed in the second half of the 20th century. Its central precepts have been described as \"drawing on both Eastern and Western spiritual and metaphysical traditions and infusing them with influences from self-help and motivational psychology, holistic health, parapsychology, consciousness research and quantum physics\". The term \"New Age\" refers to the coming astrological Age of Aquarius.\n\nThe New Age aims to create \"a spirituality without borders or confining dogmas\" that is inclusive and pluralistic. It holds to \"a holistic worldview\", emphasising that the Mind, Body and Spirit are interrelated and that there is a form of monism and unity throughout the universe. It attempts to create \"a worldview that includes both science and spirituality\" and embraces a number of forms of mainstream science as well as other forms of science that are considered fringe.\n\nThe idea of a perennial philosophy, sometimes called perennialism, is a key area of debate in the academic discussion of mystical experience. Huston Smith notes that the Traditionalist School's vision of a perennial philosophy is not based on mystical experiences, but on metaphysical intuitions. The discussion of mystical experience has shifted the emphasis in the perennial philosophy from these metaphysical intuitions to religious experience and the notion of nonduality or altered state of consciousness.\n\nWilliam James popularized the use of the term \"religious experience\" in his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". It has also influenced the understanding of mysticism as a distinctive experience which supplies knowledge. Writers such as WT Stace, Huston Smith, and Robert Forman argue that there are core similarities to mystical experience across religions, cultures and eras. For Stace the universality of this core experience is a necessary, although not sufficient, condition for one to be able to trust the cognitive content of any religious experience.\n\nWayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" further back to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique. It was adopted by many scholars of religion, of which William James was the most influential.\n\nCritics point out that the emphasis on \"experience\" favours the atomic individual, instead of the community. It also fails to distinguish between episodic experience, and mysticism as a process, embedded in a total religious matrix of liturgy, scripture, worship, virtues, theology, rituals and practices. Richard King also points to disjunction between \"mystical experience\" and social justice:\nReligious pluralism holds that various world religions are limited by their distinctive historical and cultural contexts and thus there is no single, true religion. There are only many equally valid religions. Each religion is a direct result of humanity's attempt to grasp and understand the incomprehensible divine reality. Therefore, each religion has an authentic but ultimately inadequate perception of divine reality, producing a partial understanding of the universal truth, which requires syncretism to achieve a complete understanding as well as a path towards salvation or spiritual enlightenment.\n\nAlthough perennial philosophy also holds that there is no single true religion, it differs when discussing divine reality. Perennial philosophy states that the divine reality is what allows the universal truth to be understood. Each religion provides its own interpretation of the universal truth, based on its historical and cultural context. Therefore, each religion provides everything required to observe the divine reality and achieve a state in which one will be able to confirm the universal truth and achieve salvation or spiritual enlightenment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49034179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49034179", "title": "Pharmakon (philosophy)", "text": "Pharmakon (philosophy)\n\nPharmakon, in philosophy and critical theory, is a composite of three meanings: remedy, poison, and scapegoat. The first and second senses refer to the everyday meaning of pharmacology (and to its sub-field, toxicology), deriving from the Greek source term φάρμακον (\"phármakon\"), denoting any drug, while the third sense refers to the \"pharmakos\" ritual of human sacrifice. A further sub-sense of \"pharmakon\" as remedy which is of interest to some current authors is given by the Liddell-Scott-Jones \"Greek–English Lexicon\" as \"a means of producing something\".\n\nIn recent philosophical work, the term centers on Jacques Derrida's \"Plato's Pharmacy\", and the notion that writing is a \"pharmakon\". Whereas a straightforward view on Plato's treatment of writing (in \"Phaedrus\") suggests that writing is to be \"rejected\" as strictly poisonous to the ability to think for oneself in dialogue with others (i.e. to anamnesis), Bernard Stiegler argues that \"the hypomnesic appears as that which constitutes the \"condition\" of the anamnesic\"—in other words, externalised time-bound communication is necessary for original creative thought, in part because it is the primordial support of culture.\n\nMichael Rinella has written a book-length review of the \"pharmakon\" within a historical context, with an emphasis on the relationship between \"pharmakoi\" in the standard drug sense and the philosophical understanding of the term.\n\nDerrida uses \"pharmakon\" to highlight the connection between its traditional meaning and the philosophical notion of indeterminacy:\n\nHowever, with reference to the fourth \"productive\" sense of \"pharmakon\", Kakoliris argues (in contrast to the rendition given by Derrida) that the contention between Theuth and the king in Plato's \"Phaedrus\" is not about whether the \"pharmakon\" of writing is a remedy \"or\" a poison, but rather, the less binary question: whether it is productive of memory or remembrance. Indeterminacy and ambiguity are not, on this view, fundamental features of the \"pharmakon\", but rather, of Derrida's deconstructive reading.\n\nIn certain cases it may be appropriate to see a \"pharmakon\" as an example of anthropotechnics in Sloterdijk's sense of the term – part a \"project of treating human nature as an object of deliberate manipulation.\" This is consistent with the way in which Plato's \"noble lie\" is understood by Carl Page – namely, as a \"pharmakon\", with the philosopher in the role of moral physician.\nRelatedly, \"pharmakon\" has been theorised in connection with a broader philosophy of technology, biotechnology, immunology, enhancement, and addiction.\n\nGregory Bateson points out that an important part of the Alcoholics Anonymous philosophy is to understand that alcohol plays a curative role for the alcoholic who has not yet begun to dry out. This is not simply a matter of providing an anesthetic, but a means for the alcoholic of \"escaping from his own insane premises, which are continually reinforced by the surrounding society.\" A more benign example is Donald Winnicott's concept of a \"transitional object\" (such as a teddy bear) that links and attaches child and mother. Even so, the mother must eventually teach the child to detach from this object, lest the child become overly dependent upon it. Stiegler claims that the transitional object is \"the origin of works of art and, more generally, of the life of the mind.\"\n\nEmphasizing the third sense of \"pharmakon\" as scapegoat, but touching on the other senses, Boucher and Roussel treat Quebec as a \"pharmakon\" in light of the discourse surrounding the Barbara Kay controversy and the Quebec sovereignty movement: Another excellent example of \"pharmakon\" can be seen in the American fixation with former celebrity icon Lindsay Lohan.\n\nPersson uses the several senses of \"pharmakon\" to \"pursue a kind of phenomenology of drugs as embodied processes, an approach that foregrounds the productive potential of medicines; their capacity to reconfigure bodies and diseases in multiple, unpredictable ways.\" Highlighting the notion (from Derrida) that the effect of the \"pharmakon\" is contextual rather than causal, Persson's basic claim – with reference to the body-shape-changing lipodystrophy experienced by some HIV patients taking anti-retroviral therapy – is that:\nIt may be necessary to distinguish between \"pharmacology\" that operates in the multiple senses in which that term is understood here, and a further therapeutic response to the (effect of) the \"pharmakon\" in question. Referring to the hypothesis that the use of digital technology – understood as a \"pharmakon\" of attention – is correlated with \"Attention Deficit Disorder\", Stiegler wonders to what degree digital relational technologies can \"give birth to new attentional forms\".\nDavid Foster Wallace alludes to the idea of a \"pharmakon\" in televised celebrity:\n\nThe following quote from Gianni Vattimo serves as an epigraph for Santiago Zabla's remarks on the \"pharmakons of onto-theology\". To continue the theme above on a therapeutic response: Viattimo compares interpretation to a virus; in his essay responding to this quote, Zabla says that the virus is onto-theology, and that interpretation is the \"most appropriate \"pharmakon\" of onto-theology.\"\n\nZabala further remarks: \"I believe that finding a \"pharmakon\" can be functionally understood as the goal that many post-metaphysical philosophers have given themselves since Heidegger, after whom philosophy has become a matter of therapy rather than discovery[.]\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15170825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15170825", "title": "Ray Brassier", "text": "Ray Brassier\n\nRaymond Brassier (; born 1965) is a member of the philosophy faculty at the American University of Beirut, Lebanon, known for his work in philosophical realism. He was formerly Research Fellow at the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Middlesex University, London, England. \n\nBrassier is the author of \"Nihil Unbound: Enlightenment and Extinction\" and the translator of Alain Badiou's \"Saint Paul: The Foundation of Universalism\" and \"Theoretical Writings\" and Quentin Meillassoux's \"After Finitude: An Essay on the Necessity of Contingency\". He first attained prominence as a leading authority on the works of François Laruelle.\n\nBrassier is of mixed French-Scottish ancestry, and his family name is pronounced in the French manner.\n\nHe received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of North London in 1995 and Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Warwick in 1997 and 2001 respectively.\n\nAlong with Quentin Meillassoux, Graham Harman, and Iain Hamilton Grant, Brassier is one of the foremost philosophers of contemporary Speculative realism interested in providing a robust defence of philosophical realism in the wake of the challenges posed to it by post-Kantian critical idealism, phenomenology, post-modernism, deconstruction, or, more broadly speaking, \"correlationism\". Brassier is generally credited with coining the term \"speculative realism\", though Meillassoux had earlier used the phrase \"speculative materialism\" () to refer to his own position.\n\nBrassier himself, however, does not identify with the speculative realist movement, and, further, debates that there even is such a movement, stating\nBrassier is strongly critical of much of contemporary philosophy for what he regards as its attempt \"to stave off the 'threat' of nihilism by safeguarding the experience of meaning – characterized as the defining feature of human existence – from the Enlightenment logic of disenchantment\". According to Brassier, this tendency is exemplified above all by philosophers strongly influenced by Heidegger and Wittgenstein. Unlike more mainstream philosophers such as John McDowell, who would press philosophy into service in an attempt to bring about a \"re-enchantment of the world\", Brassier's work aims to \"push nihilism to its ultimate conclusion\".\n\nAccording to Brassier, \"the disenchantment of the world understood as a consequence of the process whereby the Enlightenment shattered the 'great chain of being' and defaced the 'book of the world' is a necessary consequence of the coruscating potency of reason, and hence an invigorating vector of intellectual discovery, rather than a calamitous diminishment\". \"Philosophy\", exhorts Brassier, \"would do well to desist from issuing any further injunctions about the need to re-establish the meaningfulness of existence, the purposefulness of life, or mend the shattered concord between man and nature. It should strive to be more than a sop to the pathetic twinge of human self-esteem. Nihilism is not an existential quandary but a speculative opportunity.\"\nBrassier's work attempts to fuse elements of post-war French philosophy with ideas arising from the (largely Anglo-American) traditions of philosophical naturalism, cognitive science, and neurophilosophy. Thus, along with French philosophers such as François Laruelle, Alain Badiou, and Quentin Meillassoux, he is also heavily influenced by the likes of Paul Churchland, Thomas Metzinger and Stephen Jay Gould. He also draws heavily, albeit often negatively, on the work of Gilles Deleuze, Edmund Husserl, and Martin Heidegger.\n\nBrassier's work has often been associated with contemporary philosophies of nihilism and pessimism. In an interview with \"True Detective\" creator and writer Nic Pizzolatto, Brassier's \"Nihil Unbound\" is cited as an influence on the TV series, along with Thomas Ligotti's \"The Conspiracy Against the Human Race\", Jim Crawford's \"Confessions of an Antinatalist\", Eugene Thacker's \"In The Dust of This Planet\", and David Benatar's \"Better Never To Have Been\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30630597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30630597", "title": "Relative utilitarianism", "text": "Relative utilitarianism\n\nLet formula_1 be a set of possible `states of the world' or `alternatives'; society wishes to choose some state from formula_1. Let formula_3 be a finite set, representing a collection of people. For each formula_4, let formula_5 be a \"utility function\". A \"social choice rule\" (or \"voting system\") is a mechanism which uses the data formula_6 to select some element(s) from formula_1 which are `best' for society. (The basic problem of social choice theory is to disambiguate the word `best'.)\n\nThe classic utilitarian social choice rule selects the element formula_8 which maximizes the \"utilitarian sum\"\n\nformula_9\n\nHowever, for this formula to make sense, we must assume that the utility functions formula_6 are both cardinal, and interpersonally comparable at a cardinal level.\n\nThe notion that individuals have cardinal utility functions is not that problematic. Cardinal utility has been implicitly assumed in decision theory ever since Daniel Bernoulli's analysis of the Saint Petersburg Paradox. Rigorous mathematical theories of cardinal utility (with application to risky decision making) were developed by Frank P. Ramsey, Bruno de Finetti,\nvon Neumann and Morgenstern, and Leonard Savage. However, in these theories, a person's utility function is only well-defined up to an `affine rescaling'. Thus, if the utility function formula_11 is valid description of her preferences, and if formula_12 are two constants with formula_13, then the `rescaled' utility function formula_14 is an equally valid description of her preferences. If we define a new package of utility functions formula_15 using possibly different formula_16 and formula_13 for all formula_4, and we then consider the utilitarian sum\n\nformula_19\n\nthen in general, the maximizer of formula_20 will \"not\" be the same as the maximizer of formula_21. Thus, in a sense, classic utilitarian social choice is not well-defined within the standard model of cardinal utility used in decision theory, unless we specify some mechanism to `calibrate' the utility functions of the different individuals.\n\n\"Relative utilitarianism\" proposes a natural calibration mechanism. For every formula_22, suppose that the values\n\nformula_23\n\nare well-defined. (For example, this will always be true if formula_1 is finite, or if formula_1 is a compact space and formula_26 is a continuous function.) Then define\n\nformula_27\n\nfor all formula_28. Thus, formula_29 is a `rescaled' utility function which has a minimum value of 0 and a maximum value of 1. The Relative Utilitarian social choice rule selects the element in formula_1 which maximizes the utilitarian sum\n\nformula_31\n\nAs an abstract social choice function, relative utilitarianism has been analyzed by Cao (1982), Dhillon (1998), Karni (1998), Dhillon and Mertens (1999), Segal (2000), Sobel (2001) and Pivato (2008). (Cao (1982) refers to it as the `modified Thomson solution'.) When interpreted as a `voting rule', it is equivalent to Range voting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15993034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15993034", "title": "Rick Lewis (journalist)", "text": "Rick Lewis (journalist)\n\nRick Lewis is the founder and editor of \"Philosophy Now\" and thereby one of the main initiators of the popular philosophy movement in the English-speaking world. \n\nLewis launched \"Philosophy Now\" in 1991, the first ever philosophy magazine worldwide. This new initiative facilitated a wave of popular philosophy activities in Great Britain, the United States, and elsewhere, which has since strengthened, and to the present owes much of its impetus to Lewis' work.\n\nA few years after launching the magazine, Lewis succeeded in having it accepted by the UK news trade, making it the first philosophy title to appear on ordinary news stands.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, France and other countries saw a wave of philosophy cafés, informal philosophy meetings held in cafes. The first of these were created by Marc Sautet in Paris, and by the late 1990s they numbered in the hundreds. In 1998 Lewis and his \"Philosophy Now\" colleague Bryn R. Williams were among the first to import this innovation into Britain, adapting it to the local culture by holding philosophy meetings in pubs rather than cafés. Their first Pub Philosophy meeting was held at The Glassblower in Piccadilly Circus, and was reported on by Radio London; later meetings took place in another West End pub, The Clachan.\n\nLewis lives in South London, and has been a guest on philosophy-related programmes on BBC Radio 4 and elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "14342884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14342884", "title": "Scepticism and Animal Faith", "text": "Scepticism and Animal Faith\n\nScepticism and Animal Faith (1923) is a later work by Spanish-born American philosopher George Santayana. He intended it to be \"merely the introduction to a new system of philosophy,\" a work that would later be called \"The Realms of Being\", which constitutes the bulk of his philosophy, along with \"The Life of Reason\".\n\n\"Scepticism\" is Santayana's major treatise on epistemology; after its publication, he wrote no more on the topic. His preface begins humbly, with Santayana saying:\nMoreover, he does not claim philosophical supremacy: \n\nWhile Santayana acknowledges the importance of skepticism to philosophy, and begins by doubting almost everything; from here, he seeks to find some kind of epistemological truths. Idealism is correct, claims Santayana, but is of no consequence. He makes this pragmatic claim by asserting that men do not live by the principles of idealism, even if it is true. We have functioned for eons without adhering to such principles, and may continue, pragmatically, as such. He posits the necessity of the eponymous \"Animal Faith\", which is belief in that which our senses tell us; \"Philosophy begins \"in medias res\"\", he assures us at the beginning of his treatise.\n"}
{"id": "673794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673794", "title": "Symbolic speech", "text": "Symbolic speech\n\nSymbolic speech is a legal term in United States law used to describe actions that purposefully and discernibly convey a particular message or statement to those viewing it. Symbolic speech is recognized as being protected under the First Amendment as a form of speech, but this is not expressly written as such in the document. One possible explanation as to why the Framers did not address this issue in the Bill of Rights is because the primary forms for both political debate and protest in their time were verbal expression and published word, and they may have been unaware of the possibility of future people using non-verbal expression. Symbolic speech is distinguished from pure speech, which is the communication of ideas through spoken or written words or through conduct limited in form to that necessary to convey the idea.\n\nAlthough the First Amendment only limited the Congress, symbolic speech has also restricted state governments starting with \"Gitlow v. New York\" (1925).\n\nWhile writing the majority opinion for \"United States v. O'Brien\", Chief Justice Warren described a series of guidelines used to determine whether a law that restricts speech violates the First Amendment. These guidelines must remain neutral in relation to the subject of the speech at hand (i.e., a speech that criticizes government action and is believed to violate a law must be treated the same way as a speech under identical circumstance, but praises the government as opposed to criticizing.) The \"O'Brien\" test is not meant to be the absolute deciding factor in cases involving non-verbal speech, but an additional tool to invoke against prohibitions. The \"O'Brien\" test is thus: The law in question must\n\nIn December 1965, a group of five students, including lead plaintiff John Tinker and his sister Mary Beth Tinker, wore black armbands overlaid with a white peace sign between the dates of December 16 and New Years Day. The principals of the students' schools had previously threatened to suspend any students who participated in the protest. Despite the warning, the small group of students proceeded to carry out their dissent, and were duly suspended. ACLU attorneys representing the students argued that the armbands constituted a form of symbolic speech and, because their demonstration was suppressed, their First Amendment rights were unconstitutionally restrained. The court voted 7–2 in favor of Tinker, finding that the suspension had violated the First Amendment. Justice Fortas, delivering the opinion of the court, held the following:\n\n\"On the morning of March 31, 1966, David Paul O'Brien and three companions burned their Selective Service registration certificates on the steps of the South Boston Courthouse. A sizable crowd, including several agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, witnessed the event. Immediately after the burning, members of the crowd began attacking O'Brien and his companions. An FBI agent ushered O'Brien to safety inside the courthouse. After he was advised of his right to counsel and to silence, O'Brien stated to FBI agents that he had burned his registration certificate because of his beliefs, knowing that he was violating federal law. He produced the charred remains of the certificate, which, with his consent, were photographed.\n\nFor this act, O'Brien was indicted, tried, convicted, and sentenced in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. He did not contest the fact that he had burned the certificate. He stated in argument to the jury that he burned the certificate publicly to influence others to adopt his anti-war beliefs, as he put it, \"so that other people would reevaluate their positions with Selective Service, with the armed forces, and reevaluate their place in the culture of today, to hopefully consider my position.\"\n\nThe court ruled 7–1 against O'Brien. In the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Warren wrote that while the First Amendment does protect freedom of speech, it does not protect all things that may extraneously be labeled 'symbolic speech'. As such, O'Brien's protest was not protected because the United States had a compelling interest in preventing the destruction or mutilation of draft cards. To help himself and future justices determine what may be protected under the free speech clause, he developed a series of requirements that laws must meet in order to stay out of conflict with the First, and thus be considered constitutional, known now as the \"O'Brien\" test.\n\nIn 1984, during a protest against the policies of the Reagan administration in Dallas, Texas, Gregory Lee Johnson doused an American flag that was given to him by a fellow demonstrator with kerosene and set it alight while those around him chanted \"America the red, white and blue, we spit on you.\" He was later arrested and convicted on a flag desecration law in Texas, and sentenced to one year in prison and a $2,000 fine. \nThe court ruled 5 to 4 in favor of Johnson. Justice Brennan wrote that because such other actions in relation to the flag (such as saluting, and displaying) are considered to be a form of expression, so must too the burning be, and that Johnson's protest was \"'Sufficiently imbued with elements of communication' to implicate the First Amendment.\" He also explained that the relevance of the \"O'Brien\" test is limited \"in which 'the governmental interest is unrelated to the suppression of free expression'\", as the Texas law in question had its interest in preventing any violent reaction that may spring from those witnessing the burning of the flag. This case helped solidify the condition that any law that inhibits freedom of speech must have an important and compelling interest to do so.\n\nIn 1968, Paul Cohen entered a Los Angeles Courthouse wearing a jacket that displayed the words \"Fuck the Draft\" knowing that the jacket displayed these words. Though he had removed the jacket and placed it under his arm before entering the courthouse, a police officer witnessed the jacket and slogan in the corridor and arrested him for \"willingly and unlawfully and maliciously disturbing the peace and quiet by engaging in tumultuous and offensive conduct.\" \n\nThe Court voted 5–4 in favor of Cohen. Justice Harlan wrote \"[A]bsent a more particularized and compelling reason for its actions, the State may not, consistently with the First and Fourteenth Amendments, make the simple public display of this single four-letter expletive a criminal offense.\" In the court's opinion, Harlan also penned the now famous line \"one man's vulgarity is another's lyric\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3732417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732417", "title": "Treebank", "text": "Treebank\n\nIn linguistics, a treebank is a parsed text corpus that annotates syntactic or semantic sentence structure. The construction of parsed corpora in the early 1990s revolutionized computational linguistics, which benefitted from large-scale empirical data. The exploitation of treebank data has been important ever since the first large-scale treebank, The Penn Treebank, was published. However, although originating in computational linguistics, the value of treebanks is becoming more widely appreciated in linguistics research as a whole. For example, annotated treebank data has been crucial in syntactic research to test linguistic theories of sentence structure against large quantities of naturally occurring examples.\n\nThe term \"treebank\" was coined by linguist Geoffrey Leech in the 1980s, by analogy to other repositories such as a seedbank or bloodbank. This is because both syntactic and semantic structure are commonly represented compositionally as a tree structure. The term \"parsed corpus\" is often used interchangeably with the term treebank, with the emphasis on the primacy of sentences rather than trees.\n\nTreebanks are often created on top of a corpus that has already been annotated with part-of-speech tags. In turn, treebanks are sometimes enhanced with semantic or other linguistic information. Treebanks can be created completely manually, where linguists annotate each sentence with syntactic structure, or semi-automatically, where a parser assigns some syntactic structure which linguists then check and, if necessary, correct. In practice, fully checking and completing the parsing of natural language corpora is a labour-intensive project that can take teams of graduate linguists several years. The level of annotation detail and the breadth of the linguistic sample determine the difficulty of the task and the length of time required to build a treebank.\n\nSome treebanks follow a specific linguistic theory in their syntactic annotation (e.g. the BulTreeBank follows HPSG) but most try to be less theory-specific. However, two main groups can be distinguished: treebanks that annotate phrase structure (for example the Penn Treebank or ICE-GB) and those that annotate dependency structure (for example the Prague Dependency Treebank or the Quranic Arabic Dependency Treebank).\n\nIt is important to clarify the distinction between the formal representation and the file format used to store the annotated data. Treebanks are necessarily constructed according to a particular grammar. The same grammar may be implemented by different file formats. For example, the syntactic analysis for \"John loves Mary\", shown in the figure on the right, may be represented by simple labelled brackets in a text file, like this (following the Penn Treebank notation):\n\nThis type of representation is popular because it is light on resources, and the tree structure is relatively easy to read without software tools. However, as corpora become increasingly complex, other file formats may be preferred. Alternatives include treebank-specific XML schemes, numbered indentation and various types of standoff notation.\n\nFrom a computational perspective, treebanks have been used to engineer state-of-the-art natural language processing systems such as part-of-speech taggers, parsers, semantic analyzers and machine translation systems. Most computational systems utilize gold-standard treebank data. However, an automatically parsed corpus that is not corrected by human linguists can still be useful. It can provide evidence of rule frequency for a parser. A parser may be improved by applying it to large amounts of text and gathering rule frequencies. However, it should be obvious that only by a process of correcting and completing a corpus by hand is it possible then to identify rules absent from the parser knowledge base. In addition, frequencies are likely to be more accurate.\n\nIn corpus linguistics, treebanks are used to study syntactic phenomena (for example, diachronic corpora can be used to study the time course of syntactic change). Once parsed, a corpus will contain frequency evidence showing how common different grammatical structures are in use. Treebanks also provide evidence of coverage and support the discovery of new, unanticipated, grammatical phenomena.\n\nAnother use of treebanks in theoretical linguistics and psycholinguistics is interaction evidence. A completed treebank can help linguists carry out experiments as to how the decision to use one grammatical construction tends to influence the decision to form others, and to try to understand how speakers and writers make decisions as they form sentences. Interaction research is particularly fruitful as further layers of annotation, e.g. semantic, pragmatic, are added to a corpus. It is then possible to evaluate the impact of non-syntactic phenomena on grammatical choices.\n\nA semantic treebank is a collection of natural language sentences annotated with a meaning representation. These resources use a formal representation of each sentence's semantic structure. Semantic treebanks vary in the depth of their semantic representation. A notable example of deep semantic annotation is the Groningen Meaning Bank, developed at the University of Groningen and annotated using Discourse Representation Theory. An example of a shallow semantic treebank is PropBank, which provides annotation of verbal propositions and their arguments, without attempting to represent every word in the corpus in logical form.\n\n\nA deep syntax treebank is a treebank lying at the interface between syntax and semantics, where the representation structure can be interpreted as a graph, representing subject of infinitival phrases, extraction, it-clef construction, shared subject ellipsis and so on. (to extend)\n\n\nMany syntactic treebanks have been developed for a wide variety of languages:\n\nTo facilitate the further researches between multilingual tasks, some researchers discussed the universal annotation scheme for cross-languages. In this way, people try to utilize or merge the advantages of different treebanks corpora. For instance, \nThe universal annotation approach for dependency treebanks; and the universal annotation approach for phrase structure treebanks.\n\nOne of the key ways to extract evidence from a treebank is through search tools. Search tools for parsed corpora typically depend on the annotation scheme that was applied to the corpus. User interfaces range in sophistication from expression-based query systems aimed at computer programmers to full exploration environments aimed at general linguists. Wallis (2008) discusses the principles of searching treebanks in detail and reviews the state of the art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43146378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43146378", "title": "Tunnel problem", "text": "Tunnel problem\n\nThe tunnel problem is a philosophical thought experiment first introduced by Jason Millar. It is a variation on the classic trolley problem designed to focus on the ethics of autonomous vehicles, as well as the question of who gets to decide how they react in life-and-death scenarios.\n\nThe tunnel problem is intended to draw one's attention to a specific issue in design/engineering ethics, and was first presented as follows:\n\nTunnel Problem: You are travelling along a single lane mountain road in an autonomous car that is fast approaching a narrow tunnel. Just before entering the tunnel a child attempts to run across the road but trips in the center of the lane, effectively blocking the entrance to the tunnel. The car has but two options: hit and kill the child, or swerve into the wall on either side of the tunnel, thus killing you. How should the car react?\n\nSimilar thought experiments have been brought forth by other philosophers focusing on the topic of autonomous cars. The premise of these thought experiments is that even with highly sophisticated self-driving-car technologies, the cars will face situations where harm cannot be avoided.\n\nThe tunnel problem is meant to focus one's attention on two questions that it raises for designers and users of autonomous cars:\n\nIn its original formulation, the tunnel problem is discussed as an \"end-of-life\" decision for the passenger of the car: depending on the way the car reacts, the passenger either lives or dies. Because of that feature, Millar argues that the tunnel problem forces us to question whether designers/engineers have the legitimate moral authority to make the decision on behalf of autonomous car users. Indeed, the second question is meant to challenge the standard notion that all design decisions are just technical in nature. Where design features provide \"material answers to moral questions\" in the use context, Millar argues that designers must find ways to incorporate user preferences in order to avoid unjustifiable paternalistic relationships between technology and the user.\n\nBecause the tunnel problem focuses on ethical design issues in semi-autonomous technologies, it is considered a problem in roboethics.\n\nRoger Crisp featured the tunnel problem on the Oxford University Practical Ethics blog. The entry contains a critique of the problem as presented by Millar.\n\nThe tunnel problem was the focus of a poll conducted by the Open Roboethics Initiative (ORi). In response, 64% of participants said the car should continue straight and kill the child, while 36% said it should swerve and kill the passenger. In addition, 48% of respondents reported that the decision was \"easy\", while 28% and 24% claimed it was \"moderately difficult\" and \"difficult\" respectively. When asked who should make the decision, only 12% felt the designer/manufacturer should make it, 44% felt the passenger should make it, and 33% thought it should be left to lawmakers.\n"}
{"id": "2192526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192526", "title": "United States of Greater Austria", "text": "United States of Greater Austria\n\nThe United States of Greater Austria () was a proposal, conceived by a group of scholars surrounding Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, that never came to pass. This specific proposal was conceived by the lawyer and politician Aurel Popovici in 1906 and aimed at federalizing Austria-Hungary to help resolve widespread ethnic and nationalist tensions.\n\nThe first program for the federalisation of the Habsburg Empire was developed by the Hungarian nobleman Wesselényi Miklós. In his work titled \"Szózat a magyar és a szláv nemzetiség ügyében\" and published in Hungarian in 1843 and in German in 1844, he proposed not only social reforms but reforms of the state structure of the Empire its nationality policy. He aimed to replace the centralized empire with a federation of five states: a German state (containing the Slovene provinces as well), a state of Bohemia and Moravia, Galicia as a Polish state, and the state of historical Hungary (including Croatia).\n\nAnother idea came from Hungarian revolutionary Lajos Kossuth: \"True liberty is impossible without federalism\". Kossuth proposed to transform the Habsburg Empire into a \"Danubian State\", a federal republic with autonomous regions.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 established the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary. The Compromise partially re-established the sovereignty of the Kingdom of Hungary, separate from, and no longer subject to the Austrian Empire. However, the favoritism shown to the Magyars, the second largest ethnic group in the dual monarchy after the Germans, caused discontent on the part of other ethnic groups like the Slovaks and Romanians.\n\nAs the twentieth century started to unfold, the greatest problem facing the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary was that it consisted of about a dozen distinctly different ethnic groups, of which only two, the Germans and Hungarians (who together accounted for about 44% of the total population), wielded any power or control. The other ethnic groups, which were not involved in the state affairs, included Slavic (Bosniaks, Croats, Czechs, Poles, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenes and Ukrainians) and Romance peoples (Italians, Romanians). Among them, only Croats had limited autonomy in the Kingdom of Croatia and Slavonia. In the Kingdom of Hungary, several ethnic minorities faced increased pressures of Magyarization.\n\nThe idea of the Dual Monarchy system of 1867 had been to transform the previous Austrian Empire into a constitutional union, one German-dominated and one Hungarian-dominated part, having also common institutions. However, after various demonstrations, uprisings and acts of terrorism, it became readily apparent that the notion of two ethnic groups dominating the other ten could not survive \"in perpetuum\".\n\nFranz Ferdinand had planned to redraw the map of Austria-Hungary radically, creating a number of ethnically and linguistically dominated semi-autonomous \"states\" which would all be part of a larger confederation renamed the United States of Greater Austria. Under this plan, language and cultural identification was encouraged, and the disproportionate balance of power would be corrected. The idea was set to encounter heavy opposition from the Hungarian part of the Dual Monarchy, since a direct result of the reform would have been a significant territorial loss for Hungary.\n\nHowever, the Archduke was assassinated at Sarajevo in 1914, triggering the outbreak of the First World War. After the war, Austria-Hungary was dismantled and several new nation-states were created, and various Austro-Hungarian territories were ceded to neighbouring countries by the victorious Entente powers.\n\nAccording to Popovici's plans, the following territories were to become states of the federation after the reform. The majority ethnic group within each territory is also listed.\n\n\nIn addition, a number of mostly German-speaking enclaves in eastern Transylvania, the Banat and other parts of Hungary, southern Slovenia, large cities (such as Prague, Budapest, Lviv, and others) and elsewhere were to have autonomy within the respective territory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3240916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3240916", "title": "Unspoken rule", "text": "Unspoken rule\n\nUnspoken rules are behavioral constraints imposed in organizations or societies that are not voiced or written down. They usually exist in unspoken and unwritten format because they form a part of the logical argument or course of action implied by tacit assumptions. Examples involving unspoken rules include unwritten and unofficial organizational hierarchies, organizational culture, and acceptable behavioral norms governing interactions between organizational members.\n\nFor example, the captain of a ship is always expected to be the last to evacuate it in a disaster. Or, as Vince Waldron wrote, \"A pet, once named, instantly becomes an inseparable member of the family.\"\n\nIn the workplace, some unspoken rules can have a significant impact on one’s job satisfaction, advancement opportunities, and career trajectory.\n\nIn sports, Scottish football club, Rangers until 1989 had an unwritten rule of not signing any player who was openly Catholic. Yorkshire County Cricket Club also historically had an unwritten rule that cricketers could only play for them if they were born within the historical county boundaries of Yorkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "49243276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49243276", "title": "William Egginton", "text": "William Egginton\n\nWilliam Egginton (born 1969) is a literary critic and philosopher. He has written extensively on a broad range of subjects, including theatricality, fictionality, literary criticism, psychoanalysis and ethics, religious moderation, and theories of mediation.\n\nWilliam Egginton was born in Syracuse, New York in 1969. He received his PhD in Comparative Literature from Stanford University in 1999. His doctoral thesis, \"Theatricality and Presence: a Phenomenology of Space and Spectacle in Early Modern France and Spain,\" was written under the direction of Hans Ulrich Gumbrecht. He currently resides with his wife, Bernadette Wegenstein, and their three children, in Baltimore. William Egginton is the Decker Professor in the Humanities and Director of the Alexander Grass Humanities Institute at the Johns Hopkins University, where he teaches Spanish and Latin American literature, literary theory, and the relation between literature and philosophy.\n\nWilliam Egginton is the author of \"How the World Became a Stage\" (2003), \"Perversity and Ethics\" (2006), \"A Wrinkle in History\" (2007), \"The Philosopher's Desire\" (2007), \"The Theater of Truth\" (2010), \"In Defense of Religious Moderation\" (2011), and \"The Man Who Invented Fiction: How Cervantes Ushered In the Modern World\" (2016). He is the co-author of \"Medialogies: reading reality in the age of inflationary media\" (2017). He is also co-editor with Mike Sandbothe of \"The Pragmatic Turn in Philosophy\" (2004), translator of Lisa Block de Behar's \"Borges, the Passion of an Endless Quotation\" (2003, 2nd edition 2014), and co-editor with David E. Johnson of \"Thinking With Borges\" (2009). In 2017, he co-authored the book \"Medialogies: Reading Reality in the Age of Inflationary Media\" with David R. Castillo. In 2018, Bloomsbury will publish his newest book, \"The Splintering of the American Mind: Identity, Inequality, and the Future of Community\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
