{"id": "35026718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35026718", "title": "AeTopus", "text": "AeTopus\n\nAeTopus is a progressive Electronic music project performed and produced by composer Bryan Tewell Hughes. The music has received critical acclaim within the new-age and electronic music genres, and the album \"Between Empires\" won the award of Best Electronic album in the 2012 Zone Music Reporter Awards. The album \"Tempula\" was nominated in the Best Electronic category in the 2006 NAR Lifestyle Music Awards. Other nominations for ZMR Best Electronic album include the 2013 EP \"Angels and Machines\" and the 2015 CD \"When\".\n\nBryan Tewell Hughes (May 19, 1966) was born in Quantico, Virginia. He began taking piano lessons at age 6, and took up playing bass guitar at age 17. He claims to have been introduced to Electronic and New Age music by his grandparents in the early 1980s, and cites Ray Lynch and Kitaro (notable pioneers in the genre) as two of his early influences.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1997, he played bass guitar in local Blues, Reggae, Funk, and Punk bands in Moscow, Idaho (where he earned a B.F.A. in Fine Arts/Painting at University of Idaho in 1989), Portland, Oregon, and his current home of Bellingham, Washington. After releasing a solo industrial CD, AnthroPile: \"Take\" (1999), he began an audio engineering internship at Binary Recording Studio in Bellingham.\n\nHughes has dedicated his musical energy to AeTopus since the release of the full-length CD \"Memories of the Elder\" in 2002. He is also a visual artist, and is credited with the art and graphic design of his CD liner notes.\n\nAeTopus' sound combines both synthesized and recorded elements, and often features sound bites and spoken human vocalizations that are used to solidify each album's theme. The music is reminiscent of early Electronic New Age in that it contains many common synthesizer sounds (such as arpeggio beeps and bass pads), yet has an exotic presence due to the use of orchestral and ethnic instruments (such as violins, pipe organs, and African percussion).\n\nThe music of AeTopus has generally been described as a blend of several Electronic music subgenres. Jim Brenholts of Ambient Visions refers to \"Memories of the Elder\" as a \"hybrid\", describing it as possessing \"...elements of the Berlin school, pastoral new age, dark ambience and droning minimalism. At the same time, it is none of those styles. In a 2008 review of \"Tempula\", Bill Binkelman of Zone Music Reporter noted that \"...Hughes has fashioned a type of music that belongs to no country and yet also [sic] all countries.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "344695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344695", "title": "Al-Tabari (disambiguation)", "text": "Al-Tabari (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Tabari or al-Tabari means simply \"from Tabaristan\", an Iranian province corresponding to parts of modern Iranian province of Mazandaran. \n\nMore than one scholar is known by this nisbat:\n\n"}
{"id": "38153954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38153954", "title": "B. B. Ashok Kumar", "text": "B. B. Ashok Kumar\n\nB. B. Ashok Kumar (also known as Tiger Ashok Kumar) is a retired Assistant Commissioner of Police credited with arresting several notorious criminals and the many police encounters in which he was involved trying to capture hardened criminals.\n\nBorn in bavali village, parane postVirajpet, Kodagu district of Karnataka state, he is the son of a coffee estate manager in Koppa-Chikkamagalur.\n\nKumar joined the Karnataka State Police Service in 1977 and is credited with 18 encounters. While being a part of Special Task Force of Karnataka Police tasked to nab forest brigand Veerappan, Ashok is reported to have slain 13 accomplices of the brigand.\n\nAshok and his police team were in the news for the Kammanahalli encounter killing of history-sheeter Station Shekar.\n\nKumar retired from service on 31 July 2012 and faces constant threat to his life from the criminal underworld.\n\nHe won the President of India's Gold Medal three times and the gold medal of the Chief Minister of Karnataka once. Ashok was given the nickname of 'Tiger' by the Home Minister in 1984.\n\nThere are five Kannada movies made on his experience and adventures to date.\n\nKumar has authored two books,\n"}
{"id": "44728799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44728799", "title": "Bali Mauladad", "text": "Bali Mauladad\n\nMuhammad Iqbal Mauladad (1926–1970), nicknamed Bali, was a big game hunter in Kenya.\n\nHe was born into a rich and influential family of Kenyan Asians but, rather than joining the family engineering business, he became a professional guide, leading parties on safari to hunt large animals, especially elephant. He was the first Muslim to be recognised as a white hunter and won the Shaw & Hunter trophy for best professional guide in 1966. He also competed in the Safari Rally, placing fourth in 1961. He died in 1970, following severe goring by a Cape buffalo.\n\nHe came from a rich family as his father, Chaudry Mauladad, was a successful civil engineer in East Africa. He attended the Government Indian School in Nairobi and his father then taught him construction and contracting. But, from the age of ten, he had learned to shoot a rifle and so, rather than join the family business like his brother Basheer, he chose to be a professional hunter in Kenya where he was born and spent his life.\n\nHe joined the well-established business, Safariland, after World War Two and was successful as a big game hunter, leading rich clients on safari and killing many game animals, especially elephant. The hunters he guided included the King and Queen of Nepal and the Governor of Colorado, Teller Ammons. British shooting-brakes were converted into safari cars for these shooting parties and he designed a lightweight rifle rack for these which was made in Naroibi for him and most of the other hunters by the gunsmiths Wali Mohamed & Co.\n\nThough he was from a Kenyan Asian background, he was admitted to the East African Professional Hunter's Association which was normally only open to white hunters. He was the first Muslim to be recognised in this way. His closest colleague in the hunting business was another Asian, Ikram Hassan, whose business was African Hunting Safaris, and they hunted elephant together in the coastal regions of Kenya.\n\nHe was a large, powerful man, weighing 250 pounds and standing over six feet in his prime. He had a distinctive moustache and a warm, extrovert manner which made him popular with clients and the other hunters. He liked joking and jazz, racehorses and rifles, fast cars and food, women and whisky – his favourite was Johnny Walker Black Label. Besides hunting, he was also an enthusiastic cricket player and rally driver. He took part in the Safari Rally four times. In 1961, he and Californian doctor, Lee Talbot, placed fourth, driving a Humber Super Snipe over 3,000 miles. He also took part in the 1956 production of the movie \"Bhowani Junction\" on location in Lahore.\n\nHe was awarded the prestigious Shaw & Hunter prize for leading a client, Donald Harris, to the finest trophy of the year on October 4, 1966. This was an Oribi antelope whose horns measured 7 inches, beating the previous world record of 6¼ inches. The small size of the antelope was incongruous because Bali was himself known for his prowess in hunting elephants with enormous ivory tusks of up to 152 pounds.\n\nHunting was dangerous as he was once mauled by a leopard and finally gored by a buffalo in Kibwezi. The buffalo inflicted injuries which ruptured his liver and, despite treatment and recuperation, complications subsequently led to his death in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5424433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5424433", "title": "Chris Cormier", "text": "Chris Cormier\n\nBroderick Christopher Cormier (born August 19, 1967), known as Chris Cormier, is a retired American bodybuilder who competed in the International Federation of BodyBuilders.\n\nHe was born in Palm Springs, California in 1967. In 1984, he placed 4th in the 167 pound weight group at the California Interscholastic Federation State High School Wrestling Championships for Palm Springs High School. Cormier's first Mr. Olympia came in 1994, where he placed 6th. The same year he also participated in his first Arnold Classic and the Ironman Pro Invitational, where he placed 4th and 2nd respectively. In 1995 he competed in his first Night of Champions tournament (now called the New York Pro), where he placed 6th. Cormier has been featured in many fitness and bodybuilding magazines, including being featured on the cover of \"Muscular Development\" magazine.\n\nIn mid-2006 Cormier was hospitalized with an infected spine resulting from a bodybuilding-related injury before he was due to train with veteran English bodybuilder and ex-Mr. Olympia, Dorian Yates. He has started his recovery, which includes extensive physiotherapy. \n\nSince then he has turned his efforts into working with athletes all over the world, sharing the knowledge and expertise he gained over his 30+ years in the sport, which included competing in over 72 IFBB competitions, with 12 professional wins and first runner-up a record 6 times at the prestigious Arnold Classic. His website is www.thegrind.guru.\n\nThe below is an incomplete competition history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5939764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5939764", "title": "Clark Gaudin", "text": "Clark Gaudin\n\nEdward Clark Gaudin (; born December 26, 1931) is a Baton Rouge attorney who served for twenty-one years in the Louisiana House of Representatives (1967–1968; 1972–1992) as the first Republican member from East Baton Rouge Parish in the 20th century.\n\nGaudin was born in New Roads in Pointe Coupee Parish to Mr. and Mrs. Alton F. Gaudin. Gaudin's mother was reared in Ventress, also in Pointe Coupee Parish.\n\nGaudin graduated from the parochial St. Joseph's Academy in New Roads in 1948. He then received his bachelor's degree from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge in 1952. He entered the United States Army Artillery as a second lieutenant on an ROTC commission in 1952. He left the service in 1954 as a first lieutenant but remained a major in the Army Reserve for another decade thereafter. Gaudin graduated from the Louisiana State University Law Center with a Juris Doctor degree in 1958.\n\nGaudin won a 1967 special election created by the resignation of Democratic lawmaker Luther F. Cole, who became a judge. He defeated Democrat Richard E. Cheek, 9,856 votes (50.3 percent) to 9,730 (49.7 percent) in a special election for the one-year unexpired term. In his first year in the legislature, Gaudin served with three other Republicans, Morley A. Hudson and Taylor W. O'Hearn of Shreveport and Roderick Miller of Lafayette, all of whom are deceased. Gaudin was defeated for a four-year term in 1968, with Richard Cheek claiming victory after defeat the previous year. O'Hearn was also defeated; Hudson did not seek reelection, and Miller lost in a bid for the Louisiana State Senate. Gaudin rebounded in 1972 to win the first of five consecutive terms. From 1970 to 1972, there was only one Republican in the Louisiana House, the New Orleans attorney James Sutterfield, who won a special election to fill the vacancy created by the election of Nat G. Kiefer to the state Senate.\n\nIn 1972, Gaudin benefited from the presence of Republican gubernatorial candidate David C. Treen, a Baton Rouge native then residing in Jefferson Parish. Gaudin unseated the Democrat Lillian W. Walker, 6,949 (51 percent) to 6,645 (49 percent). Thereafter, Gaudin won comparatively easy victories to hold his seat. When Gaudin was reelected in the 1975 nonpartisan blanket primary, he had only four incoming Republican colleagues, and one of those, A. J. McNamara of Jefferson Parish, had been elected as a Democrat but switched affiliation in 1977.\n\nIn his last election for the District 69 seat, which then encompassed the Jefferson Street area and Tara subdivision, in 1987, Gaudin polled 48 percent in the primary and was forced into a general election (often called the \"runoff\" in Louisiana) with the Democrat Marilyn Barfield. He then won by a comfortable margin, 7,370 (58 percent) to 5,441 (42 percent). He did not run again in the 1991 primary, but his seat remained in Republican hands with the general election victory of Chuck McMains, who later left the legislature and ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate in the 1996 jungle primary. District 69 was dismembered by the legislature after Gaudin announced that he would not seek reelection, and part of the base now lies in District 68.\n\nDespite his success in legislative races, Gaudin narrowly failed in a bid for a judgeship of the 19th Judicial District Court in Baton Rouge. In an election held on December 8, 1990, Gaudin received 16,944 votes (48.7 percent) compared to his Democratic opponent, Linda Holliday, who finished successfully with 17,857 votes (51.3 percent).\n\nIn his last legislative session, Gaudin attempted to revive Louisiana's medical marijuana law.\nGaudin was among a virtual handful of Louisiana legislators who supported a state right-to-work law in his 1967-1968 term. By 1976, after his reelection, the legislature passed right-to-work on the theory that it would encourage economic growth by allowing workers the choice of whether they should join a union. Gaudin accused opponents of the legislation of taking cues from labor officials such as the AFL-CIO president Victor Bussie of Baton Rouge. Louisiana was the last traditional southern state to adopt such legislation. In gaining passage, Gaudin worked with Representative Bruce Lynn, a fellow Republican and a banker from Caddo Parish. Lynn was elected to succeed another right-to-work supporter, Democrat (later Republican) James H. \"Jimmy\" Wilson of Vivian. Other leading right-to-work advocates were Representative R. Harmon Drew, Sr. of Minden and John Hainkel of New Orleans.\n\nGaudin worked to eliminate the Louisiana Milk Commission, which lawmakers eventually concluded kept milk prices in the state artificially high and forbade out-of-state companies from selling within Louisiana.\n\nGaudin retained an interest in Republican politics after he left the legislature. He was a delegate to the 1996 Republican National Convention held in San Diego, which nominated the ticket of Robert J. Dole and Jack French Kemp. The Dole-Kemp combination, however, lost Louisiana's then nine electoral votes in the fall campaign to Bill Clinton and Al Gore.\n\n"}
{"id": "19399275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19399275", "title": "Dan Tucker (lawman)", "text": "Dan Tucker (lawman)\n\nDan Tucker, better known as \"Dangerous Dan\" Tucker, (1849 – unknown), is a little-known lawman and gunfighter of the Old West. Author Bob Alexander, who wrote the biography \"Dangerous Dan\" Tucker, New Mexico's Deadly Lawman\", proclaimed Tucker was more dangerous and more effective than better known lawmen, including Wild Bill Hickock and Wyatt Earp. He was supported in this claim by historian Leon C. Metz. He was also a subject in the book \"Deadly Dozen\", by author Robert K. DeArment, who included Tucker as one of the twelve most underrated gunmen of the Old West.\n\nTucker first ventured into New Mexico Territory in the early 1870s. Born in Canada, Tucker was said to have been soft-spoken and laconic, and with a slight accent often mistaken for being southern. Famed New Mexico sheriff Harvey Whitehill was, at the time, serving as the Grant County, New Mexico sheriff. Whitehill first met Tucker in 1875, when the latter drifted into Silver City, New Mexico from parts unknown. Although some were suspicious of Tucker, who initially introduced himself as David Tucker, Whitehill took a liking to him, and hired him as a deputy sheriff.\n\nTucker was rumored to have last been in Colorado, but had fled after stabbing a man to death. He was also said to have killed men in El Paso, Texas and Santa Fe, New Mexico, but these claims were never confirmed. The only known facts were that he had ridden with outlaw John Kinney and that he did, after arriving in New Mexico, take part in the El Paso Salt War.\n\nOne of the first incidents of violence in which Tucker took part after accepting his new job occurred in 1876 and was witnessed by Sheriff Whitehill's son, Wayne Whitehill, who was then a child but able to give a full account of the incident during an interview in 1949. According to him, two Mexican men began fighting inside \"Johnny Ward's Dance Hall\", in Silver City. One of the men stabbed the other, wounding him, then ran out into the street to escape. Just as he rounded a corner on Broadway Street, Dan Tucker shot him in the neck in full view of many citizens, the young Whitehill being one. An account of this shooting was also taken from Dan Rose, who was 12 years old at the time but also on the street that night.\n\nAnother incident, occurring in 1877 and also witnessed by Wayne Whitehill, concerned a report that a Mexican man was intoxicated and throwing rocks at people as they passed by, on a side street in Silver City. Tucker responded, with several young boys running a short distance behind, due to his being somewhat of a fascination to them and an enigma to the locals after the first shooting. According to witnesses, Tucker merely located the intoxicated man and, without ever muttering even one word to him, killed him with one shot. No charges were ever filed against Tucker for that shooting. In 1878, Tucker shot and killed a fleeing thief, as well as becoming engaged in a gunfight with three suspected horse thieves inside a Silver City saloon, killing two of the thieves and wounding the third. By this time, Tucker was legendary in the area, and had acquired the nickname \"Dangerous Dan\" after the shooting of the rock throwing suspect.\n\nIn early May, 1880, Sheriff Whitehill dispatched Deputy Tucker to track down two suspects who had broken into a prospector's cabin and stolen numerous goods and personal property. Tucker was gone for two days, then returned with all the stolen property, along with the horses, saddles, and weapons of the two suspects. He reported to Sheriff Whitehill that he had located the two on a ranch and killed them, with the owner of the ranch agreeing to bury them. Days later, Tucker responded to a domestic dispute, during which a man had clubbed his wife and child to near death. As Tucker entered the house, the man knocked Tucker's gun from his hand with the club. In the altercation that followed, Tucker was able recover his gun from the floor and shot the man, killing him.\n\nIn 1878, although remaining a deputy sheriff, Tucker had accepted the position of Silver City Marshal, the town's first, and a position he would hold through several terms. By later accounts, Tucker brought the town's violent crime rate under control quickly, and was feared due to his lack of hesitation when he deemed violence was necessary to solve a problem. By newspaper accounts from the \"Grant City Herald\", in November 1878 Tucker was shot and wounded during a shootout with cowboy Caprio Rodriguez, when the latter resisted arrest following a disturbance in a saloon. Tucker killed Rodriguez in the exchange.\nIn 1881, Tucker assisted Sheriff Whitehill in a double hanging, had previously acted as the hangman in several other hangings for Grant County, and later accepted the position of Marshal for Shakespeare, New Mexico; in September, he shot and killed rustler Jake Bond. In November, 1881, he arrested outlaw Sandy King after he shot and wounded a storekeeper. On November 9, 1881, he captured outlaw \"Russian Bill\" Tattenbaum for cattle rustling. The two were hanged by the town's \"Vigilance Committee\" that same day.\n\nTucker was sent to Deming, New Mexico on November 27, 1881, due to several outlaws causing disturbances and basically taking over the town. He began patrolling the streets with a double-barrel shotgun and within three days, according to journalist C.M. Chase who was in the area doing a story on the Southern Pacific Railroad, Tucker shot and killed three men and wounded two more. In 1882, James H. Cook became the manager of the \"WS Ranch\" and later would comment Tucker was, to his personal knowledge, involved in several gunfights as a shotgun rider while working for Wells Fargo.\n\nDuring 1882, Tucker became involved in the most controversial shooting of his career. On August 24, James D. Burns, who worked as a deputy in the mining camp of Paschal, in Grant County, entered the \"Walcott & Mills Saloon\". Burns became intoxicated, and began twirling and flaunting his pistol. Deputy Cornelius A. Mahoney attempted to disarm Burns, but he refused, saying that as a law officer he was entitled to retain his weapon. Town Marshal Glaudius W. Moore also threatened to arrest Burns, but he ignored him and continued on his drinking binge, going from saloon to saloon.\n\nThe following afternoon, Burns, whose binge had resulted in him staying up all night with no sleep, found himself in the \"Sam Eckstein Saloon\", where he goaded Bob Kerr into a fight, but when Burns produced his pistol, Kerr fled. Burns then left that saloon and walked down in front of the \"Centennial Saloon\", where he began firing his pistol in the air. He then entered the saloon and began gambling with Frank Thurmond, a professional gambler. Marshal Moore entered shortly thereafter, due to several people complaining about Burns.\n\nHe approached Burns as he was seated at the table, and demanded he come outside to speak with him. Burns refused, stating he had done nothing and would not leave until the game was finished. Marshal Moore again ordered him up, and again Burns refused. At this point, Marshal Moore produced his pistol and yet again ordered Burns outside. Also seated at the table were former deputy John W. Gilmo and Dan Tucker.\n\nGilmo convinced Marshal Moore to holster his pistol, but as soon as he did, Burns jumped to his feet, pulling his own pistol. Tucker then drew on Burns and ordered him to drop his gun, which he did. Marshal Moore departed to obtain an arrest warrant for Burns. After he departed, Burns began verbally confronting Tucker, stating Tucker was wrong for involving himself in the incident.\n\nA while later, Marshal Moore returned with Deputy Bill McClellen, warrant in hand. The two lawmen then demanded Burns turn over his weapons, stating they had \"papers\" for him. What followed is confusing, and has never been cleared completely. Burns drew and fired, missing everyone and, despite both lawmen having their pistols unholstered, Tucker was the first to react, drawing and shooting Burns in the ribcage. The percussion of both the first two shots extinguished the lamps, thus leaving the men in the dark. Moore and McClellen then also fired on Burns, with McClellen firing one round and Moore firing four in quick succession, all hitting their mark. Burns died immediately.\n\nA decision to file charges against McClellen and Moore was made, based mainly on the fact Burns had been extremely popular with the local miners, and there was a loud public outcry for justice, despite the shooting having been justified. Tucker was not to be charged. On September 3, 1882, an attempt by local authorities to arrest both men was made, but they refused and no one pressured them. Instead, they went to nearby Central City and surrendered to authorities there, to avoid a possible lynching in Silver City.\n\nTucker, although previously told he was cleared, was also arrested, and also jailed in Central City. McClellen was released on bail and, while riding after an all-night drunk, his horse threw him and he died of injuries from the fall, thus never coming to trial. Tucker and Moore were eventually cleared of the shooting, but Moore was dismissed as Marshal.\n\nTucker's reputation suffered as a result of the shooting but Tucker himself, as those who knew him later commented, seemed to not be bothered by this. On December 14, 1882, Tucker was ambushed by a Mexican man as he entered a brothel in Deming to investigate a complaint, which turned out to be false. He was shot in the shoulder, but he shot and killed one man and one of two prostitutes who were assisting in the assassination attempt. Several other Mexican men also attempted to involve themselves but backed away when several citizens entered, having heard the gunshots from the street.\n\nOn November 24, 1883, Tucker was part of a posse, led by Sheriff Whitehill, in pursuit of bandits who had robbed a train near Deming, killing the engineer and messenger near Gage Station. The posse captured the gang, but they later escaped from the jail. Again, Whitehill led a posse in pursuit of the gang and two other prisoners, engaging the escapees in a shootout near the mountains outside Silver City. Escapee Carlos Chavez and gang member George Washington Cleavland were killed, posse member Joe Le Fur was killed. Escapee Charles Spencer and gang members Mitch Lee and Frank Taggert surrendered, Lee having been badly wounded. Gang leader Kit Joy escaped, getting wounded in the process. The posse hanged all but Spencer on sight. Joy was later wounded again by rancher Erichus \"Rackety\" Smith, and captured near the Gila River, resulting in Joy being sentenced to life in prison. In November of that year, Tucker arrested York Kelly, an outlaw who had killed three men and murdered a woman who was eight months pregnant during a bank robbery in Bisbee, Arizona. For a time after this, Tucker operated a saloon in Deming, but in 1885 he was appointed as a Deputy US Marshal for that region.\n\nIn November, 1885, he and friend William Graham were involved in a gun battle with marauding Apache warriors 11 miles west of Deming, but they were able to drive the warriors off. Tucker had resigned his position by 1888, and moved on to California. The last time anyone who knew him saw him was in 1892, when he made his last known visit to Grant County. Where he went following that, or when or where he died, remains unknown. Although little known today, Tucker is considered by some historians to have been one of the most dangerous, albeit underestimated, gunmen in the history of the Old West.\n\n"}
{"id": "39055248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39055248", "title": "Death and funeral of Margaret Thatcher", "text": "Death and funeral of Margaret Thatcher\n\nOn 8 April 2013, former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher died of a stroke in London at the age of 87. On 17 April, she was honoured with a ceremonial funeral. Due to polarised opinion about her achievements and legacy, reaction to her death was mixed throughout Britain and evoked contrasting praise and criticism. The funeral, including a formal procession through Central London, followed by a church service at St Paul's Cathedral, cost around £3.6 million including £3.1 million for security. The funeral was notable for the attendance of the reigning monarch, Elizabeth II; all four of her successors as prime minister paid homage at the funeral. Her body was subsequently cremated at Mortlake Crematorium.\n\nThatcher's ashes were buried at the Royal Hospital Chelsea, London, in a private ceremony on 28 September 2013, alongside those of her husband Denis.\n\nThatcher suffered several small strokes in 2002 and was advised by her doctors not to engage in any more public speaking. On 23 March, she announced the cancellation of her planned speaking engagements and that she would accept no more. But despite her illness, she pre-recorded a eulogy for the funeral of Ronald Reagan in June 2004, and attended her 80th birthday celebration in 2005 with the Queen and 650 other guests in attendance. However, her health continued to decline as the decade went on; she was briefly hospitalised in 2008 after feeling unwell during a dinner, and again after falling and fracturing her arm in 2009. In June 2009, her daughter Carol spoke to the press of her mother's struggle with dementia.\n\nPlanning for the funeral began in 2009. The committee was originally chaired by Sir Malcolm Ross, the former Master of the Royal Household. Following the 2010 general election that brought the coalition government into power, Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude was made the new chairman of the committee; the codename given to the plans was changed to \"True Blue\" from \"Iron Bridge\" to give it \"a more Conservative feel\".\n\nDetails of Thatcher's funeral had been agreed with her in advance. Specifically, Thatcher had chosen the hymns and stipulated that the prime minister of the day would deliver a reading from the Bible. She had previously vetoed a state funeral; reasons included cost, parliamentary deliberation, and that it suggested similar stature to Winston Churchill (with which she disagreed). Instead with her and her family's agreement, she received a \"ceremonial\" funeral, including military honours, a guard of honour, and a service at St Paul's Cathedral, London. The arrangements were similar to those for the Queen Mother in 2002 and for Diana, Princess of Wales in 1997, except with greater military honours as she had been a former head of government. Thatcher's body was cremated after the funeral, in accordance with her wishes.\n\nSome of Thatcher's supporters expressed disappointment that she would not be given a full state funeral. However, Peter Oborne in \"The Daily Telegraph\" argued that the scale of the ceremony amounted to a \"de facto\" state funeral and disagreed with the status of a ceremonial funeral. Oborne contended that the Queen's attendance might be seen as \"partisan\", since she had not attended Labour prime minister Clement Attlee's funeral.\n\nThe scale and the cost to the taxpayer of the funeral, inaccurately estimated before the event at up to £10 million in total, was also criticised by public figures including the Bishop of Grantham, Lord Prescott and George Galloway. Thatcher's family agreed to meet part of the cost of the funeral, unspecified but thought to cover transport, flowers and the cremation. The government would fund the remaining costs, including security. After the event, it was reported by 10 Downing Street that in fact the total public spending on the funeral was £3.6 million, of which £3.1 million (86 per cent) had been the costs of police and security.\n\nAnticipating possible protests and demonstrations along the route, police mounted one of the largest security operations since the 2012 Summer Olympics. Against the backdrop of the bombings at the Boston Marathon two days earlier, it was announced that over 4,000 police officers would be deployed. In the event, the crowds were peaceful, with supporters drowning out most of the scattered protests with cheers and applause. A few hundred people turned up to protest at Ludgate Circus, some shouting and others turning their backs, with other protesters picketing along the route.\n\nFlags along Whitehall were lowered to half-mast at 08:00, and as a rare mark of respect the chimes of the Palace of Westminster Great Clock, including Big Ben, were silenced from 09:45 for the duration of the funeral. At the Tower of London, a 105mm gun fired every 60 seconds during the procession. Muffled bells tolled at St Margaret's Church at Westminster Abbey, and at St Paul's.\n\nThe funeral cortège commenced at the Houses of Parliament, where Thatcher's coffin had lain overnight in the Chapel of St Mary Undercroft beneath St Stephen's Hall at the Palace of Westminster. The funeral procession was as follows:\n\nThe bidding (introductory words) was given by the Dean of St Paul's, David Ison. Granddaughter Amanda gave the first Bible reading; the second reading was given by David Cameron. The Bishop of London also gave an address.\n\nIt was expected that there would be about 2,300 mourners within St Paul's Cathedral for the funeral. Invitations were decided by the Thatcher family and their representatives, together with the government and the Conservative Party. The guest list included her family and friends; former colleagues including former British Cabinet members; and personal staff who worked closely with her. Invitations were also sent to representatives of some 200 countries, and to all five living presidents of the United States and four British prime ministers. Two current heads of state, 11 serving prime ministers, and 17 serving foreign ministers, were present.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II led mourners at the funeral. It marked only the second time in the Queen's reign that she attended the funeral of one of her prime ministers, the only other time was for that of Sir Winston Churchill in 1965. Her presence at the funeral was interpreted by some as having elevated \"the status [of the funeral] to that of state funeral in all but name\". The Queen and Prince Philip were led in and out of the cathedral by the Lord Mayor of London Roger Gifford, bearing the Mourning Sword. The sword had last been used at Churchill's funeral.\n\nFollowing the church service, the coffin was taken by motor hearse from St Paul's Cathedral to Mortlake Crematorium, where Sir Denis Thatcher had been cremated nearly a decade before. The cremation service was only attended by the immediate family. On 28 September 2013, a private and unpublicised service for Thatcher was held in the All Saints Chapel of the Royal Hospital Chelsea's Margaret Thatcher Infirmary. Afterwards Thatcher's ashes were interred in the grounds of the hospital, next to those of her husband.\n\nOn 10 April, two days following Thatcher's death, her son Mark spoke of his mother's death on the steps of her Chester Square home. He told a gathering of journalists that his family was \"proud and equally grateful\" that her funeral service would be attended by the Queen, whose presence he said her mother would be \"greatly honored as well as humbled by\". He expressed gratitude for all the messages of support and condolences from far and wide. Three days later on 13 April her daughter Carol thanked President Obama of the United States and others for their tributes, and all those who had sent messages of sympathy and support.\n\nA Buckingham Palace spokesman reported the Queen's sadness on hearing the news of her death, and that she would be sending a private message to the family.\n\nPrime Minister and Conservative Party leader David Cameron cut short a visit abroad and ordered flags to be flown at half-mast. He issued a statement lamenting Britain's loss of \"a great prime minister, a great leader, a great Briton\". The Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, eulogised Thatcher as having defined modern British politics and that, while she may have \"divided opinion\" during her time, there would be scant disagreement about \"the strength of her personality and the radicalism of her politics\".\n\nLeader of the Opposition and Labour Party leader Ed Miliband said that she would be remembered for having \"reshaped the politics of a whole generation [and moving] the centre ground of British politics\" and for her stature in the world. He said that, although the Labour Party had disagreed with much of what she did, \"we can disagree and also greatly respect her political achievements and her personal strength\".\n\nSir John Major, her successor as prime minister, credited Thatcher's leadership with turning Britain around in large measure. \"Her reforms of the economy, trades union law, and her recovery of the Falkland Islands elevated her above normal politics.\" Former Labour prime ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown said that even those who disagreed with her would admire her strength of character, her convictions, her view of Britain's place in the world and her contribution to British national life.\n\nScottish National Party leader and First Minister Alex Salmond acknowledged that \"Margaret Thatcher was a truly formidable prime minister whose policies defined a political generation\". Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood, while expressing sympathy to her family, criticised her policies' effects on Wales.\n\nFormer Green Party leader Caroline Lucas voiced regret that, although Thatcher was the first female prime minister, \"she did little for women either inside or outside the House of Commons\". UKIP leader Nigel Farage expressed his sympathy in a tweet, paying homage to \"a great patriotic lady\".\n\nThe House of Commons held a special session discussing Thatcher's legacy. While current and former cabinet ministers struck a conciliatory tone in their speeches, some in the Labour Party attacked Thatcher's legacy. Over half of all Labour MPs chose to boycott the tribute to Thatcher, with many saying it would have been hypocritical for them to honour her as their constituents continued to suffer from some of the decisions she made. Retired MP Tony Benn, former London mayor, Ken Livingstone, and Paul Kenny, General Secretary of the GMB trade union, stated that her policies were divisive and her legacy involved \"the destruction of communities, the elevation of personal greed over social values and legitimising the exploitation of the weak by the strong\", however Benn did acknowledge some of her personal qualities.\n\nMany reactions were unsympathetic, particularly from her opponents. Residents in Orgreave, South Yorkshire, site of the Battle of Orgreave between striking coal miners and police in June 1984, declared that their village had been \"decimated by Thatcher\". The AP quoted a number of miners as responding to her death simply with \"good riddance\". Chris Kitchen, General Secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers, stated that miners would \"not be shedding a tear for her\". A mock funeral was held in the pit village of Goldthorpe in South Yorkshire, in which an effigy of Thatcher was burned alongside the word \"scab\" spelled out in flowers.\n\nSpontaneous street parties were held by some across Britain, comparable to the enthusiasm shown by many for the assassination of incumbent Prime Minister Spencer Perceval in 1812; \"celebrations\" took place in Glasgow, Brixton, Liverpool, Bristol, Leeds, Belfast, Cardiff and elsewhere; Glasgow City Council advised citizens to stay away from street parties organised without their involvement or consent out of safety concerns. A larger demonstration with around 3,000 protesters took place at Trafalgar Square in London on 13 April. Graffiti was posted calling for her to \"rot in hell\". Left-wing director Ken Loach suggested privatising her funeral and tendering it for the cheapest bid. \"The Daily Telegraph\" website closed comments on all articles related to her death due to brigading by online trolls.\n\nThe issue of whether to fly the flag at half-mast for her funeral caused controversy for some councils where local feelings remained hostile. The government's national flag protocol dictates that union flags should be lowered to half mast on the funeral days of all former prime ministers; however most Scottish councils did not lower the flag for the funeral. Councils in England that refused to lower the flag included Barnsley, Sheffield and Wakefield in Yorkshire, and Coventry in the West Midlands.\n\nWhilst business leaders, including Alan Sugar, Richard Branson, Archie Norman and CBI chief John Cridland, credited her for creating a climate favourable to business in Britain, and lifting the UK \"out of the economic relegation zone\", the Premier League and the Football League rejected having a minute's silence around the country's football grounds, a move backed by the Football Supporters' Federation and the Hillsborough Family Support Group, the latter in reaction to her perceived lack of interest in uncovering abuse committed by the police during the 1989 disaster. However, Saracens and Exeter Chiefs held a minute's silence for her before their Premiership rugby union games.\n\nAlong with the eulogies and expressions of condolence, there were less than sympathetic reactions in Argentina, due to her role in the Falklands War, and in South Africa, given her opposition to economic sanctions against South Africa.\n\nBan Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, described Thatcher as \"a great model as the first woman Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, who not only demonstrated her leadership but has given such great hope for many women for equality, gender equality in Parliament\". The message from Pope Francis \"recalls with appreciation the Christian values which underpinned her commitment to public service and to the promotion of freedom among the family of nations\".\n\nBarack Obama, President of the United States, lamented the loss of \"a true friend\". His statement praised her as \"an unapologetic supporter of our transatlantic alliance, she knew that with strength and resolve we could win the Cold War and extend freedom's promise\". Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper acknowledged Thatcher as having \"define[d] the age in which she served [as well as] contemporary conservatism itself\".\n\nFrench President François Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel remarked that Thatcher left \"a deep impression on her country's history\". Merkel went on to hail Thatcher's belief in the freedom of the individual as having contributed to \"overcoming Europe's partition and the end of the Cold War\"\n\nIrish President Michael D. Higgins extended his condolences saying: \"She will be remembered as one of the most conviction-driven British prime ministers who drew on a scholarship that demanded markets without regulation\" and that \"her key role in signing the Anglo-Irish Agreement will be recalled as a valuable early contribution to the search for peace and political stability\". Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams castigated Thatcher for \"the great hurt done to the Irish and British people during her time as British prime minister\", adding: \"Here in Ireland, her espousal of old draconian militaristic policies prolonged the war and caused great suffering\".\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Julia Gillard expressed her admiration for Thatcher's achievements as a woman. \n\nAustralia's Minister for Foreign Affairs Bob Carr would disclose that In a conversation with her \"in her retirement\", Mr Carr said the former UK prime minister had warned Australia against Asian immigration. She said \"if we allowed too much of it we'd see the natives of the land, the European settlers, overtaken by migrants\", he said.\n\nNew Zealand Prime Minister John Key praised Thatcher's determination and expressed his \"[sadness] for her family and Great Britain\". Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lamented losing \"a true friend of the Jewish people and Israel\".\n\nRomanian President Traian Băsescu and the premier and foreign minister of Bulgaria, Marin Raykov, cited her influence on them, and sent their condolences. They recognised Thatcher as a central figure in modern European history, and that her application of the law and economic liberal principles contributed to the downfall of communism in the Eastern Bloc.\n\nAt the wishes of Thatcher's family, Argentina's president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner was not invited to the funeral. Argentine foreign minister Héctor Timerman said that any invitation would have been \"just another provocation\". The Argentine ambassador Alicia Castro was invited in line with diplomatic protocol, but declined the invitation.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and South African President Jacob Zuma expressed their \"deepest sympathies\". as did Russian President Vladimir Putin, who said that Thatcher was \"a pragmatic, tough and consistent person\". Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev expressed sadness at the loss of a \"great\" politician \"whose words carried great weight\".\n\nSocial media played a significant role in the aftermath of her death, with celebrities channelling polarised views about Thatcher on Twitter, and endorsing campaigns and demonstrations. Anti-Thatcher sentiment prompted a campaign on social media networks to bring the song \"Ding-Dong! The Witch Is Dead\" from \"The Wizard of Oz\" into the UK Singles Chart, followed by a counter-campaign adopted by Thatcher supporters in favour of the 1979 tongue-in-cheek punk song \"I'm in Love with Margaret Thatcher\" by the Notsensibles, which had been started by the band's lead singer. On 12 April 2013, \"Ding-Dong!\" charted at number 2 across the UK (it made number 1 in Scotland), and \"I'm in Love with Margaret Thatcher\" at number 35. Radio 1 Controller Ben Cooper said that the station's chart show would not play the No. 2 song but that a portion of it would be aired as part of a news item. Cooper explained that its delicate compromise balanced freedom of speech and sensitivity for a family grieving for a loved one yet to be buried.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898122", "title": "Diane Disney Miller", "text": "Diane Disney Miller\n\nDiane Marie Disney Miller (December 18, 1933 – November 19, 2013) was the oldest and only biological child of Walt Disney and his wife Lillian Bounds Disney. Diane co-founded the Walt Disney Family Museum alongside her family. She was president of the Board of Directors of the Walt Disney Family Foundation. The museum, which opened in 2009, was established to promote and inspire creativity and innovation and celebrate and study the life of Walt Disney.\n\nMiller was a patron of the arts, as well as a lifelong classical music enthusiast and a generous philanthropist as well . \n\nMiller published a series of eight pieces for the \"Saturday Evening Post\" in 1956 titled \"My Dad, Walt Disney\", co-written with Pete Martin. In 1957 she published the book \"The Story of Walt Disney\". After her husband was removed from his executive position at Walt Disney Productions in 1984, Miller began to limit her involvement with the company. In an interview with Diane in 2005, she recalled that she and Sharon lived a typical life, as both parents were very protective, caring and loving. \n\nMiller was instrumental in pushing ahead with the Walt Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles. The project was initiated with a $50 million gift from her mother in 1988, but was stalled for a time due to cost negotiations. She was an ardent supporter of architect Frank Gehry as its designer. The hall finally opened in 2004.\n\nAfter devoting her earlier life to raising her seven children, Miller undertook an active advocacy to document the life and accomplishments of her father, who has been the subject of poorly researched biographies and inaccurate rumors. She was also concerned that his name had become more of a corporate identity than a reference to the man himself. In 2001, the Walt Disney Family Foundation released \"The Man Behind the Myth\", a documentary film about Walt Disney’s life featuring interviews with his colleagues, peers, and family. In 2009, Diane co-founded the Walt Disney Family Museum with her son Walter Elias Disney Miller, who is a movie producer, and Disney was also the President of the Board of Directors of the Walt Disney Family Foundation at the time of her death, which is a nonprofit organization that owns and operates the Walt Disney Family Museum, located in Presidio in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2015, the inaugural Diane Disney Miller Lifetime Achievement Award was created to honor the Museum's founder, to recognize those who have made an outstanding impact in the field of arts, education, community involvement, or technological advancements.\n\n\nBorn in Los Angeles on December 18, 1933, Diane Disney Miller attended Los Feliz Grammar School, before moving to Immaculate Heart High School (Los Angeles) for junior high school and high school. She went on to study English at the University of Southern California.\n\nWhen she was 20 years old, Diane was introduced to 21-year-old University of Southern California student Ron Miller, a member of the USC Trojans football team, on a blind date after a University of California–USC game. They married in a small Episcopal church ceremony in Santa Barbara on May 9, 1954. Together, Diane and Ron had several children whom they were survived by: Tamara Scheer, Patrick D., Jennifer Miller-Goff, Christopher D., Walter Elias, Joanna. Ronald then served in the Army and played professional football before Walt convinced him to work the Walt Disney Studios, and ascended from film directing and production to president and CEO of what is now The Walt Disney Company. In 1988, Lillian Disney, her mother, announced plans to contribute $50 million to the Los Angeles Concert Hall in Downtown Los Angeles, which Diane would later come to support it throughout her life. More than 70 architectural firms submitted proposals to the head director, Frank Gehry. By 1996, the project was almost dead, but Diane persuaded Gehry to move forward with it, as it had run into problems with poor management and disagreements over the design, and Los Angeles County officials wanted to cancel it. It was supposed to be worth $10 million by 1997. Diane arranged for the Walt Disney Family Foundation to contribute about $25 million to keep Gehry in control, and the hall finally opened in 2003, at the cost of $247 million. Although Lillian Disney, never got a concert there (she died in 1997), Diane continued to support it. \n\nDuring that time, Diane traveled to Napa Valley with her mother, Lillian, to visit several wineries. The trip inspired Miller to start a vineyard, with the possibility of a winery. With the children grown, Ron left the company and the entertainment industry in 1984, and both he and Diane went on to develop the renowned Silverado Vineyards Winery in Napa, which became their home. In 1976, the family purchased a large property along the Silverado Trail in the Stags Leap District. They planted Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay and started making wine in 1981. They expanded the winery to only using estate-grown grapes, and Diane helped create a home and a family-like atmosphere rather than just a business. \n\nThe couple had seven children: Christopher (b. 1954), Joanna (b. 1956), Tamara (b. 1957), Jennifer (later Miller-Goff; b. 1960), Walter (b. 1961), Ronald (b. 1963), and Patrick (b. 1967).\n\nDiane Disney Miller died on November 19, 2013, at age 79 from medical complications that developed after a fall. She is interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, where her father's ashes are also located. She was survived by her seven children, thirteen grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.\n\nThe film \"Saving Mr. Banks\" is dedicated to her memory (Disney Miller died shortly before it opened theatrically). \n\nRon and Diane Disney Miller received a special thank you in \"Inside Out\" (2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5970281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5970281", "title": "Female sex tourism", "text": "Female sex tourism\n\nFemale sex tourism is sex tourism by women who travel intending to engage in sexual activities with one or more locals, usually male sex workers. Female sex tourists may seek aspects of the sexual relationship not shared by male sex tourists, such as perceived romance and intimacy. Women who fit this profile – especially wealthy, single, older white women – plan their holidays to have romance and sex with a companion who knows how to make them feel special and give them attention. The prevalence of female sex tourism is significantly lower than male sex tourism. \n\nFemale sex tourism occurs in diverse regions of the world. The demographics of female sex tourism vary by destination, but in general female sex tourists are usually classified as women from a developed country, who travel to less developed countries in search of romance or sexual outlets.\n\nFemale sex tourists can be grouped into three types: \n\n\nWithin the realm of female sex tourism, male sex workers are vital for the satisfaction of these women, whether physical or emotional. Without the employment of local sex workers, sex tourism for both men and women would not exist. Sex tourism is becoming a global phenomenon . With this movement of different populations to different countries, problems concerning health increase, especially ailments involving sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV/AIDS. Women involved with sex tourism do not find themselves using barrier contraceptives during the majority of their visit, leaving them unprotected against STIs.\n\nThere is an ongoing debate on terminology regarding female sex tourism. Pruitt and LaFont argue that the term \"female sex tourism\" is not representative of the relationship that female tourists have with local men. They argue that \"female sex tourism\" oversimplifies the motives of these women and that \"romance tourism\" explains the complex nature of what these women are engaging themselves in while involved in romance tours. They also propose that the expression \"female sex tourism\" \"serves to perpetuate gender roles and reinforce power relations of male dominance and female subordination, romance tourism in Jamaica provides an arena for change\".\n\nScholars such as Klaus de Alburquerque counter that the term \"romance tourism\" overcomplicates what the motives of sex tourists are. de Albuquerque stated that concepts like \"romance tourism\" are only representative of small niches, like that of Jamaica and its cultural beliefs. Through his research, he concludes that the majority of female sex tourists are solely touring for physical encounters and not romance. He also says that the \"tourist and beach boys may define their relationships as one of romance, [but] in reality, the relationship is one of prostitution\".\n\nResearcher Jacqueline Sanchez-Taylor argues that the term \"female sex tourism\" and even the term \"romance tourism\" undermine what is actually happening in these situations. She compares female and male sex tourism and shows how each relationship is based upon sexual-economic relationships. She also explores whether or not female sex tourism is based on romance and if there is some sort of sexual-economic relationship occurring between the two parties. She added, \"The fact that parallels between male and female sex tourism are widely overlooked reflects and reproduces weaknesses in existing theoretical and commonsense understandings of gendered power...[and] sex tourism.\"\n\nA number of countries have become destinations for female sex tourism, including Southern Europe (mainly in Greece, Italy, Spain and Croatia); the Caribbean (Barbados, Dominican Republic, Cuba and Jamaica); Ecuador, Costa-Rica, Morocco, Turkey, Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and Fiji; and Gambia and Kenya in Africa. Other destinations include Bali in Indonesia is a destination where females from Western Europe, Japan and Australia engage in sex tourism with male locals.. A survey from 2009 conducted by Wanjohi Kibicho in Malindi Kenya from the book Sex Tourism in Africa: Kenya's Booming Industry, found that out of the sex tourist surveyed 61% were between the ages of 46-50, 31-35(3%) being the youngest age bracket. Of the background of these women surveyed 22% were from Germany, 19% from Italy and 15% from Netherlands. In addition 71% of those surveyed were re-visting the destination. In gauging the reasoning for sex touring Kibicho summarizes that women who feel rejected by men in the developed countries for being \"overweight and older\" find that in Kenya this is suddenly reversed. There they are \"romanced\", appreciated and \"loved\" by men. \n\nTraditional female sex tourists have the same intentions as their male counterparts, and travel to foreign countries that have lower wages, and take advantage of cheap prostitution at a level unaffordable in their own countries.\n\nExamples of these sexual-economic relationships can be found in countries like Kenya, Africa, where women from the United Kingdom travel to Kenya to enjoy the sun and enjoy the “company of young men” in a sexual manner.\n\nSituational sex tourists differ from traditional sex tourists by considering their sexual activities with the sex worker as an added amenity to their original motive to travel.\n\nThe background of the situational sex tourist consists of first time tourists who do not plan on being involved intimately with local men. The majority of these first time tourist will become involved in relationships where the tourist becomes romantically involved with the local men rather than being exclusively physical with the sex workers.\n\nSituational sex tourism occurs when foreign tourists are lured in by male sex workers, known as either \"beach boys\" in the Caribbean, \"gringueros\" in Costa Rica or local men. According to the tourists, they are usually lured in due to the exotic appeal that these men emulate. The exotic appeal can come from the ethnic differences between the sex worker and the sex tourist or the foreign lifestyle that these men live\n\nThe sex workers will target women who they deem vulnerable for various reasons, such as weight or age.\n\nRomance tourism refers to a different relationship than female sex tourism.\n\nThe concept of romance tourism came from researchers' observations in Jamaica; it appeared to them that the female tourist and local males viewed their relationship with each other solely based on romance and courtship rather than lust and monetary value. Romance tourism is an issue of gender identification: “gender identity is a relational construct, the Western women who seek to break from conventional roles require a different kind of relationship with men in order to realize a new gender identity”. With increasing independence and financial self-reliance, women are able to travel, showing their independence from men of their culture, “female tourists have the opportunity to explore new gender behavior”. Like traditional sex tourists, romance tourists have a motive for travel, romance tourists travel to underdeveloped countries to find romantic relationships.\n\nMale sex workers have more freedom and security than female sex workers do because males are not confined to a brothel or a pimp and are not generally physically abused by their clients.\n\nSimilar to the sex tourists, sex workers have their own intentions. Just as some Western women may consider the local men exotic, the local men may consider Western women to be exotic. Popular characteristics that appeal to a majority of sex workers are women with blonde hair and light colored eyes. Some of the sex workers will specifically target this type of exotic woman for their own personal pleasure with no guarantee of monetary gain.\n\nOn the other side of the spectrum, most sex workers have the intention of making some form of monetary gain. Such a sex worker typically profiles tourists, in hopes of increasing his monetary wealth the fastest. While profiling he will look for older women, over the age of forty or young, overweight women. The sex worker considers these women vulnerable and will play on their vulnerability to get the tourists to obtain feelings for the sex worker. Once the tourist and sex worker obtain a relationship, the sex worker finds it easier for them to engage in a monetary exchange.\n\nRomance tourists do not label their sex workers “prostitutes”. The local men and the tourists understand their roles in the relationship. The primary difference in definition of a local man to a romance tourist and a local man to a sex tourist is the emphasis the romance tourist places on passion instead of a transaction of goods or money for sexual favors.\n\nThe rate of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV/AIDS, may be relatively high in some countries which are popular destinations for female sex tourism, particularly in comparison to the home countries of many sex tourists. Little or no research has been done into the transmission rates of HIV and other STDs pertaining to sex tourism. Neither has there been reliable research done into whether or not condom use is prevalent among female sex tourists. However, writer Julie Bindel speculates, in an article for the Guardian, that HIV infection figures for the region suggest that condom use by the \"beach boys\" in the Caribbean may be sporadic, yet female sex tourists do not appear especially preoccupied by the potential risks.\n\nWomen seeking to experience sex with foreign men put themselves at a higher risk for STIs. Condom use during sex tours is relatively low. It is often cited that women have the intention to have safe sex with their casual sex partners while on vacation, but at some point during the initiation of the condom, the women do not follow through.\n\nThe sex workers usually will not initiate the use of a condom due to either the limited availability of condoms, cost, beliefs or previous experiences the sex worker has had with condoms.\n\nThe lack of barrier contraceptives increases the risk of the tourist obtaining a sexually transmitted infection from their foreign partner especially when their partner has been with multiple women.\n\nWith sex tourism, women report that, given the atmosphere and the exoticness of their lover; condoms are rarely used or discussed prior to engaging in sexual activities.\n\nIt has been found that in the Monteverde region of Costa Rica data researched by Nancy Romero Daza, has shown that female tourists in the region engage in some form of unprotected sexual activity with local men known as Gringueros. The women in the study were found to not be traditional sex tourists but situational sex tourists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560984", "title": "Floyd Soileau", "text": "Floyd Soileau\n\nJames Floyd Soileau (born November 2, 1938) is an American record producer.\n\nSoileau was born in Faubourg, a small community between Ville Platte and Washington, Louisiana. He grew up speaking Cajun French and did not speak English until attending school at the age of 6 years. In his junior year of high school, he did an afternoon Cajun music show as a part-time job with KVPI radio in Ville Platte. After graduating from Ville Platte High in 1956, he opened a small record store, Floyd's Record Shop and discovered that although people were still interested in them, Cajun French records were no longer being produced. With the financial help of a friend, Ed Manuel (a juke box operator from Mamou, Louisiana), who wanted new French records for his juke boxes, Floyd released his first record on the Big Mamou label by artists Austin Pitre and Milton Molitor. In 1957 Lawrence Walker and Aldus Roger helped Floyd launch his own label, Swallow Records.\n\nOver the past 40 years, Swallow Records has released 265 45rpm single records and 151 albums of Cajun French music, including recordings by Adam Hebert, Belton Richard, Dewey Balfa and the Balfa Brothers, Nathan Abshire, Jambalaya Cajun Band, Paul Daigle & Cajun Gold, D.L. Menard, and many more, plus recordings by the Cajun French story teller, Marion Marcotte. 1958 saw the beginning of Jin Records with artists such as Clint West, Tommy McLain & the Boogie Kings, Lil' Bob & The Lollipops, Warren Storm, Skip Stewart, Rockin' Sidney, Rod Bernard, Johnny Allan and others making significant contributions to what was the, then, controversial swamp pop music. In 1975 he established his Maison de Soul record label, devoted to Creole and Zydeco music, including artists such as Clifton Chenier, Rockin' Dopsie, Keith Frank, Chris Ardoin, Zydeco Force, Jeffery Brousard, and others. He has always encouraged his artists to compose new songs to record, and his Flat Town Music Company now publishes over 2800 songs, a majority of which are Cajun, swamp pop, and zydeco songs.\n\nHis Swallow Publications has published two books on the Cajun French language, \"Cajun Dictionary\" and \"Cajun Self-taught\", both by Rev. Jules Daigle, and Jeff Hannusch's \"I Hear You Knockin\"', the story of early New Orleans rhythm and blues. He operated Swallow Recording Studios in Ville Platte for over 15 years, and sold his last studio in 1975 to Ronnie Kole, who moved the studio to Slidell, Louisiana. That year he opened a vinyl record pressing plant and printing company for LP record jackets and labels, the only such facility in Louisiana. The plant closed in 1994. Eventually, the store would close but the online mail order business still continues.\n\nIn 1959, he married his high school sweetheart Jinver Ortego. They have three daughters, Catherine, Connie and Cindy, and one son, Christopher. Floyd was inducted into the Acadian Museum in Louisiana on October 19, 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596133", "title": "Geoff Regan", "text": "Geoff Regan\n\nGeoffrey Paul \"Geoff\" Regan (born 22 November 1959) is a Canadian politician, member of parliament for Halifax West and the current Speaker of the House of Commons. Under Paul Martin, he was Minister of Fisheries and Oceans from 2003 to 2006.\n\nRegan was born in Windsor, Nova Scotia. Regan is the son of Gerald Regan, a former Premier of Nova Scotia and Cabinet Minister under Pierre Trudeau, and Carole Harrison, the daughter of John Harrison, a Member of Parliament from Saskatchewan. Two of his sisters are also well-known: Nancy Regan was a well-known local television personality with ATV, Laura Regan is an actress.\n\nRegan graduated from Sackville High School in 1977 and then earned his Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from St. Francis Xavier University in 1980. Following university, Regan went on to earn a law degree from Dalhousie University, graduating in 1983. He was admitted to the Nova Scotia Barristers’ Society in 1984 and practiced real estate and commercial law before entering public life.\n\nRegan was a member of Toastmasters for almost ten years, in the late 1980s to early 1990s.\n\nRegan was first elected to the House of Commons as part of the Liberal landslide victory in the 1993 federal election under Jean Chrétien. He was defeated in the 1997 election by NDP candidate Gordon Earle, mainly because of the federal government's changes to employment insurance.\n\nAfter regaining his seat in the 2000 federal election, Regan was appointed Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Government in the House of Commons, a position then held by Don Boudria. In 2003, Paul Martin appointed him as Minister of Fisheries and Oceans.\n\nRegan was the Regional Minister for Nova Scotia in the newly formed government of Paul Martin, sworn in on December 12, 2003. Regan was re-elected in the 2004 federal election. He would keep position in cabinet in Martin’s minority government. In February 2004, Regan was appointed to act as Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada, in matters related to Maher Arar.\n\nUpon the defeat of the Liberal government in the 2006 election, he was appointed by Bill Graham, Interim Leader of the Official Opposition, to the shadow cabinet as the Official Opposition Critic for Human Resources and Skills Development. During his time as critic, Regan introduced a private members’ bill to expand Canada Access Grants for disabled and low income students. In January 2007, he was appointed to the newly created Liberal Priorities and Planning Committee, which was chaired by then Liberal Opposition Leader Stéphane Dion. In March 2008, Regan was named Chair of the Caucus Committee on Environmental Sustainability. Regan also served as Vice-Chair of the House of Commons Standing Committee on Environment and Sustainable Development.\n\nRegan was re-elected in 2008, and 2011 federal elections, despite significant Liberal losses in both. Regan won his seat by a few percentage points in the latter election as the Liberals finished in third place. Under the leadership of Stephane Dion, Regan served as Opposition Critic for Human Resources and Skills Development. Under Michael Ignatieff, Regan served as Liberal Critic for Natural Resources, and later, Public Works and Government Services and also as the Liberal Natural Resources Critic under leader Justin Trudeau and the Vice-Chair of the Standing Committee on Natural Resources.\n\nRegan was re-elected in the 2015 federal election with 68% of the vote as the Liberal party swept all 32 Atlantic Canada seats and formed a majority government. On December 2, 2015, Regan was selected as Speaker of the House of Commons in secret ballot by members of the 42nd Parliament over Liberal candidates Denis Paradis, Yasmin Ratansi and Conservative Bruce Stanton. Regan won on the first ballot and is the first speaker from Atlantic Canada in over a hundred years.\n\n\nRegan's wife, Kelly Regan, is a provincial MLA and Liberal cabinet minister in Nova Scotia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20923452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20923452", "title": "Government scientist", "text": "Government scientist\n\nA government scientist is a scientist employed by a country's government, either in a research-driven job (for example J. Robert Oppenheimer on the Manhattan Project), or for another role that requires scientific training and methods. In some countries other terms such Technical officers is also used for scientists.\n\nIn Australia, most government scientists are employed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. A Chief Scientist is appointed to advise the government through the Office of the Chief Scientist.\n\nIn Singapore, government scientists are classified according to the Departmental Titles (Alteration) (Amendment) Act 1996, which amended the Departmental Titles (Alteration) Ordinance of 1950.\nIn the United Kingdom, government scientists are part of the Scientific Civil Service. However, that was not always the case. Before the Second World War, government scientists were recruited and employed by the Civil Service on an ad hoc basis, with grades, job titles, and organizations that varied between departments. In 1930, the Carpenter Committee was appointed to investigate the organization of civil service scientific and technical staff, and its report proposed a reorganization that covered the entire Service. This report was endorsed by the Tomlin Commission, however it was impossible to reach agreement with the relevant staff associations, who wanted other professional groups within the civil service to be similarly reorganized, and nothing ended up happening.\n\nWorld War Two changed this by causing a far greater number of scientific and technical staff to be employed by the government. The Barlow Committee on Scientific Staff in Government Departments reviewed the positions of government scientists during wartime, issuing a report on 1943-04-23. This report spurred the creation of a government white paper, entitled \"The Scientific Civil Service\", which resulted in a reorganization of government scientisgts across the entire Service. This reorganization classified governmenvnt scientists across the entire Service into three major classes similar to those civil servants for the Treasury had already been classified in:\n\nIn the United States, the employment of scientists by state and federal governments was, like in the U.K., affected by the Second World War. President Roosevelt first created the National Defense Research Committee under Vannevar Bush. This was then expanded to the Office of Scientific Research and Development, also led by Bush. The OSRD employed scientists on a contract basis, with the OSRD as client and individual scientists as contractors. Scientists were contracted to research (through study and experiment) a specified subject, without constraints as to method, and to issue reports to the OSRD.\n\nAfter the war, scientific research was continued by agencies such as the Office of Naval Research established in 1947, which again employed scientists as contractors. Scientific research was published in the normal way. The Atomic Energy Commission, established in 1946, and the National Institutes of Health, established in 1930, also paid scientists for scientific research, and were major sources of government research funding.\n\nThe National Science Foundation was eventually established in 1950. Defence research was explicitly excluded from its charter, even though Dr Bush had originally envisioned the NSF as including that as well. The armed forces established their own research departments, such as the Office of Ordnance Research for the Department of the Army, established on the campus of Duke University in June 1951.\n\nU.S. local, state, and federal governments also employ scientists directly. The federal government employs them in departments such as the Department of Agriculture, Department of the Interior, and the Public Health Service. States and cities employ scientists in similar roles, including at fish and game commissions, parks, aquariums, arboretums, and museums; and at agencies such as environmental inspection agencies, crime laboratories, and public health monitoring agencies.\n"}
{"id": "7139144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7139144", "title": "Grace Marguerite Hay Drummond-Hay", "text": "Grace Marguerite Hay Drummond-Hay\n\nGrace Marguerite, Lady Hay Drummond-Hay (née Lethbridge, 12 September 1895 – 12 February 1946) was a British journalist, who was the first woman to travel around the world by air (in a zeppelin). Although she was not an aviator herself at first, she contributed to the glamour of aviation and general knowledge of it, by writing articles about her aerial adventures for US newspapers in the late 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nGrace Lethbridge was the eldest daughter of Sidney Thomas Lethbridge and his wife Grace Emily (née Willis). Her father was the managing director of the Spratt's dog and animal food company. She was married in 1920 to Sir Robert Hay Drummond-Hay (1846–1925) at the age of 25, her husband being nearly fifty years older. Sir Robert was born in Tangiers, Morocco and had been the British consul-general for years in Beirut, Lebanon. Sir Robert was previously married to Euphemia Katrina Willis Flemming. Four children were produced in this marriage, Arnold Robert, Edward William, Cecil, and Florence Caroline. The children were all significantly older than their new stepmother, Florence Caroline being 15 years older. After six years of marriage, Sir Robert died. Lady Drummond-Hay then was 31 years old. As a young aristocratic widow she lived in her apartment in Finchley Road London.\n\nHaving contributed to British papers such as \"The Sphere\", she began to write for Hearst papers in the late 1920s. She wrote a series of articles for the Chicago \"Herald and Examiner\", as one of the passengers aboard the first transatlantic flight of a civilian passenger zeppelin in 1928.\n\nThis airship, the LZ 127 \"Graf Zeppelin\", was also the first one to circumnavigate the world, in 1929. This trip around the world took place in August 1929, taking off at Lakehurst, New Jersey and arriving there again 21 days later, after stops in Friedrichshafen, Germany, Tokyo, and Los Angeles. Captain Hugo Eckener commanded \"Graf Zeppelin\" on the flight. Lady Hay Drummond-Hay, or Lady Drummond-Hay, as she was often referred to, was the only female passenger. Among her 19 companion travellers were:\n\"Around the World by Zeppelin\" (BBC documentary programme published 8 Jan 2012)</ref>\n\nLady Drummond-Hay gained fame after she arrived in New York, and her career as a journalist was secured for the next decade.\n\nShe went to war zones such as Abyssinia (Ethiopia) and was a foreign correspondent in Manchuria (China). She worked closely together for many years with her senior colleague Karl von Wiegand. Lady Drummond-Hay was a well-known and respected journalist of the time, known for her extraordinary beauty and wit, and the intelligence and flair of her writing. Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie presented her with a precious jewel, which was displayed on her body at her funeral.\n\nDuring World War II, Lady Drummond-Hay and von Wiegand were interned in a Japanese camp in the Philippines. When they were set free in 1943, she was ill and Karl suffered poor eyesight after a bomb blast. They returned to the United States on the Swedish rescue ship the SS Gripsholm in December 1943. Lady Drummond-Hay died of coronary thrombosis in the Lexington Hotel 12 Feb 1946. At her funeral service, many notable people paid their last respects, including William Randolph Hearst and Marion Davies. After she was cremated, her ashes were brought to the United Kingdom by von Wiegand.\n\nThough well known in the late 1920s and early 1930s, Lady Hay Drummond-Hay has been largely forgotten. Her name is mentioned in a number of books on the history of zeppelin flights, but no major biography or other significant document has been written about her life.\n\nAn Australian documentary, \"The Airships: Ship Of Dreams\" (2004), included footage of her.\n\nLady Drummond-Hay's 1929 experience was explored in \"Vaarwel\" (\"Farewell\"), an episode of the Dutch documentary series \"Het Uur van de Wolf\" (\"The Hour of the Wolf\"), released in 2009. It was directed by Ditteke Mensink and researched by Gerard Nijssen, and told her story in semidocumentary form. The footage is of her and \"Graf Zeppelin\"s round-the-world flight. Extensive newsreel footage from the time showed in some detail how an airship operated. The narration consisted mainly of readings from Lady Drummond-Hay's articles and journal, and included discussion of her relationship with von Wiegand.\n\nHowever, some parts of the film are fictitious; the airship's tail fin did not rip during the flight, but during a previous transatlantic flight in October 1928, nor did the airship have to land on water to do repairs.\n\nVariety described the documentary as 'absorbing'.\n\n\"Vaarwel\" was later broadcast in the UK, on BBC Four, as \"Around The World by Zeppelin\", on 7 February 2010. The English-language narration was read by Poppy Elliott.\n\n"}
{"id": "925558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925558", "title": "Hugh Sinclair", "text": "Hugh Sinclair\n\nAdmiral Sir Hugh Francis Paget Sinclair, (18 August 1873 – 4 November 1939), known as Quex Sinclair, was a British intelligence officer. Between 1919 and 1921, after World War I, he was Director of British Naval Intelligence, and helped to set up the Secret Intelligence Service (SIS, commonly MI6) before the Second World War.\n\nSinclair was educated at Stubbington House School; he joined the Royal Navy at 13 in 1886 and entered the Naval Intelligence Division at the beginning of the First World War. He became Director of Naval Intelligence in February 1919 and Chief of the Submarine Service in 1921. He became the second director of SIS in 1923.\n\nBeginning in 1919 he attempted to absorb the counter-intelligence service MI5 into the SIS to strengthen Britain's efforts against Bolshevism, an idea that was finally rejected in 1925. The SIS remained small and under-funded during the inter-war years. By 1936 Sinclair realized that the Gestapo had penetrated several SIS stations and Claude Dansey, who had been removed from his station in Rome, set up Z organization, intended to work independently of the compromised SIS.\n\nIn 1938, with a second war looming, Sinclair set up Section D, dedicated to sabotage. In spring of 1938, using £6,000 of his own money, he bought Bletchley Park to be a wartime intelligence station.\n\nSinclair was asked in December 1938 to prepare a dossier on Adolf Hitler, for the attention of Lord Halifax, the Foreign Secretary, and Neville Chamberlain, the Prime Minister. In the dossier, which was received poorly by Sir George Mounsey, the Foreign Office assistant under-secretary—who believed that it did not gel with Britain's then contemporary policy of appeasement—Sinclair described Hitler as possessing the characteristics of \"fanaticism, mysticism, ruthlessness, cunning, vanity, moods of exaltation and depression, fits of bitter and self-righteous resentment; and what can only be termed a streak of madness; but with it all there is a great tenacity of purpose, which has often been combined with extraordinary clarity of vision.\" \n\nSinclair became seriously ill with cancer, causing Alexander Cadogan to note on 19 October 1939, that he was \"going downhill\". On 29 October, Sinclair underwent an operation for his cancer and died on 4 November 1939, aged 66, five days before the Venlo incident.\n"}
{"id": "14258726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14258726", "title": "Ismail Akbay", "text": "Ismail Akbay\n\nIsmail Akbay (October 17, 1930 – July 26, 2003) was a Turkish scientist. He is mostly remembered as the first Turk to work for NASA.\n\nHe was born in Mudanya (Tirilye-Zeytinbağı) near Bursa, Turkey on October 17, 1930. Early on, Akbay was recognized as a gifted child with exceptional mental aptitude. He graduated from Bursa Erkek Lisesi and Haydarpaşa Lisesi before choosing to move to the United States. In 1956, he received a B.S. degree in Engineering Physics from the University of Tennessee. Akbay died in a fire at his home, apparently while trying to save the family dog.\n\nAkbay was personally selected by Dr. Wernher von Braun, the famous astronautical engineer, to be the lead aerospace engineer for the F1 Engine Integration on the Apollo Saturn V-S1C Rocket. Mr. Akbay also spearheaded the Saturn 1B/H-1 Engine Integration for the Apollo-Soyuz Rendezvous Mission. Between 1963 and 1975, Akbay served in various managerial capacities during NASA’s Apollo, Skylab and Apollo-Soyuz projects.\n\nHis 31-year career at NASA earned him recognition as one of American’s early space pioneers. In Turkey, at the end of the 1960s, newspaper headlines heralded him as the \"Turkish Villager Who Helped Put Man on the Moon\".\n\nAfter his career with NASA, Akbay worked on the transfer of space technology to the U.S. private sector and the commercialization of other federally funded technologies.\n\nDuring a meeting in 1996 about technology transfer, Akbay introduced Kaya Tuncer to the idea of building a Space Camp at the Aegean Free Zone. Until his death in July 2003, Akbay was an enthusiastic supporter of Space Camp Turkey, attending its opening ceremony in June 2000 and following its progress and developments.\n"}
{"id": "13110985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13110985", "title": "Jerome D'Souza", "text": "Jerome D'Souza\n\nFather Jerome D'Souza, SJ (6 August 1897, Mangalore, South Canara, British India – 12 August 1977, Madras, India) was an Indian Jesuit priest, educationist, writer and member of the Indian Constituent assembly (1946–50).\n\nBorn in the Moolki town of Mangalore in the erstwhile South Canara district of British India, to a Catholic family cultivating intellectual interest, Jerome was soon at home in several local languages. He did his secondary schooling at St. Aloysius College (Mangalore) and college studies in St. Joseph's College (Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, India). Completing finally the English Literature course at the University of Madras (Chennai) he first taught a year at St Joseph's College, Trichy, before deciding to enter the Society of Jesus (29 May 1921). He then went through the usual Jesuit training, doing his theological studies with the French Jesuits in Belgium at the end of which he was ordained priest on 30 August 1931 (Enghien, Belgium). He hailed from the Mangalorean Catholic community.\n\nBack in India in 1933, he was appointed professor in his alma mater, the St Joseph’s College of Trichy of which he became within a few years, rector and president. An able administrator, Jerome was also a convincing orator. He soon attracted the attention of Sir C. Rajagopalachari (known as Rajaji), the then president of the Indian National Congress. Transferred in 1942 to the Loyola College of Chennai (formerly Madras), to be its rector and later its Principal, D’Souza soon became involved in the legal establishment of the University of Madras (Chennai). When the time came to form an assembly that would draw a constitution for the country—the independence of India was near—D’Souza’s name was proposed by Rajagopalachari to the Madras legislative assembly. He was elected to represent them at the constituent assembly of Delhi.\n\nAt the assembly (1946 to 1950), along with the Protestant leader H.C. Mukherjee, D’Souza ensured the rights of the minorities (especially of worship and education) were fully protected by the proposed text and the right to practice and propagate one’s religion were included in the constitution as fundamental rights of all citizens of India.\n\nIn Delhi he soon gained the trust and admiration of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of independent India who often consulted him in educational matters and used his oratorical skill. At the instance of Nehru he was also involved in delicate diplomatic negotiations:\n\nAt the request of the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, D’Souza founded in Pune (India) the Indian Social Institute (now in New-Delhi, 10, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road New Delhi), and started publishing a journal \"Social Action\" that has nowadays a large circulation in social and academic circles. That was in 1951. He became its first Director (1951–1956). Later, in 1957, D’Souza was made the Assistant and adviser of the Superior General of the Jesuits (Jean-Baptiste Janssens) for Indian and Asian affairs. He returned to India in 1968 and spent his last years writing articles and books, giving lectures and courses. Jerome D’Souza was one of the best known Jesuits of his times. Still many gratefully visit his tomb at Christ the King Church, in Loyola College, Chennai campus.\n\nIn 1997, the Indian government issued a stamp to commemorate his birth centenary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2702296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2702296", "title": "John Cumming (clergyman)", "text": "John Cumming (clergyman)\n\nJohn Cumming (10 November 1807 – 5 July 1881) was a Scottish clergyman.\n\nHe was born in Fintray in Aberdeenshire and attended Aberdeen Grammar School and then stiudied Divinity at Aberdeen University.\n\nIn 1832, Cumming was appointed to the Crown Court Church in Covent Garden, London, a Church of Scotland congregation that catered for Scots living in London. At the time, the congregation had approximately 80 members, but Cumming was able to grow his congregation to around 900, and he regularly preached to congregations of 500-600 on Sundays.\n\nCumming was a controversial figure in his day, George Eliot being the most prominent figure to criticize him for his anti-Catholicism, obsession with the End Times, and perceived intellectual dishonesty.\n\nIn 1853 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposer was Sir John Archibald Murray.\n\nCumming retired in 1879. In total, he published approximately 180 books during his lifetime.\n\nHe died on 5 July 1881 in Chiswick near London and was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Nicholson in 1833. She died in 1879.\n\nCumming was one of the most virulently anti-Catholic preachers of his day. Several of his books attacked Catholicism, including \"The Romish Church a Dumb Church\" (Arthur Hall, 1853) and \"Ritualism, the Highway to Rome\" (James Nisbet & Co., 1867). He gave public lectures denouncing Cardinals Nicholas Wiseman and John Henry Newman. \"The Times\" also frequently printed letters from Cumming in which he pointed to perceived misdeeds on the part of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nCumming also took a deep interest in Christian eschatology, adhering to the Historicist school of Christian eschatology. He believed that historical events such as the French Revolution and the Irish Potato Famine had fulfilled prophecies contained in the biblical Books of Daniel and Revelation. He preached that the sixth vial of judgment (discussed in Revelation 16) had been poured out in 1820. Cumming therefore taught that Judgment Day would occur some time between 1848 and 1867.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53430457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53430457", "title": "Kumar Paudel", "text": "Kumar Paudel\n\nKumar Paudel () is a Nepalese conservationist focused on most threatened wildlife; co-founder and director of Greenhood Nepal. He has designed and conducting ground breaking conservation research and programs in Nepal. He is extensively into curb illegal wildlife trade and scale up pangolin conservation initiatives in Nepal. He has been awarded a fellowship at University of Oxford, within the Oxford Martin Programme on the Illegal Wildlife Trade. He is also a producer of the critically acclaimed documentary \"Looking The Un-eyed Way\" with Pradeep Bashyal and Ankit Babu Adhikari.\n"}
{"id": "751252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751252", "title": "Lajos Batthyány", "text": "Lajos Batthyány\n\nCount Lajos Batthyány de Németújvár (10 February 1807 – 6 October 1849) was the first Prime Minister of Hungary. He was born in Pozsony (modern-day Bratislava) on 10 February 1807, and was executed by firing squad in Pest on 6 October 1849, the same day as the 13 Martyrs of Arad.\n\nHis father was Count József Sándor Batthyány (1777–1812), his mother Borbála Skerlecz (1779-1834). At an early age, he moved to Vienna with his mother and his brother after his parents' divorce. Batthyány had a private tutor, but his mother sent him to a boarding school and Battyhány rarely saw his mother again.\n\nAt the age of 16 Batthyány finished his studies at boarding school and attended the Academy in Zágráb (now University of Zagreb, Croatia). In 1826 he took a tour of duty in Italy for four years, where he was promoted to lieutenant and got his law degree.\n\nIn 1830 he became a hereditary peer in the Upper House in Hungary and took his seat in the Parliament, but at this time Battyhány was not a politician by nature.\n\nIn December 1834 he married Antónia Zichy (daughter of Károly Zichy and Antónia Batthyány). Their children were: Amália Batthyány (1837–1922), Ilona Batthyány (1842–1929) and Elemér Batthyány (1847–1932). Batthyány's friend said that Antónia (his wife) encouraged him to take on larger responsibilities in politics.\n\nBatthyány became more involved after the 1839–1840 diet in Pozsony and was the Leader of the Opposition. He drew up a reform plan for them. Batthyány advised employing stenographers to record verbatim the proceedings of the Upper House starting in 1840.\n\nBatthyány agreed with István Széchenyi's views on economics and politics. At the beginning of the 1830s Batthyány was one of the people who promoted horse breeding in Hungary. Later they expanded into other animal breeding and established the Association of Hungarian Economy. Batthyány, following Széchenyi, supported breeding silkworms: he planted more than 50,000 mulberry trees on his farm to cultivate them. The Vas shire county and the Economics Association of Szombathely were founded with Batthyány's help.\n\nAt the start he agreed with Széchenyi that the new noblemen and aristocrats had to lead the new reform movement, but Batthyány's views were much closer to that of the nobility. Because of this Batthyány tried to bite his tongue when dealing with Széchenyi and Lajos Kossuth. From 1843 onward he started to work with Kossuth.\n\nIn the 1843–1844 parliament Batthyány was the Leader of the Opposition for the entire parliament, and criticised the Habsburg Monarchy's internal affairs and foreign policy.\n\nAfter the dissolution of parliament Batthyány moved to Pest and in 1845 he was elected as the chairman of the Central Election Office. He had an important role in the other economic associations and set up the (roughly: \"Defence society\" ). On 15 March 1847 an amalgamation of the Hungarian Leftist movements (the Maverick Party) was founded and Batthyány became its first President.\n\nBatthyány supported Kossuth both morally and financially. Kossuth became the representative for in the 1847 diet. After this Batthyány was the Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House while Kossuth had the same role in the Lower House.\n\nBatthyány was part of the delegation to the Emperor Ferdinand I of Austria. They insisted Hungary's government be supreme in its territory. On 17 March 1848 the Emperor assented and Batthyány created the first Hungarian Diet. On 23 March 1848, as head of government, Batthyány commended his administration to the Diet.\n\nThe first task of the new government was to work out the revolution's policies. After these were agreed, the government began to take action on 11 April 1848. At that time the internal affairs and foreign policy of Hungary were unstable, and Batthyány faced many problems. His first and most important act was to organise the armed forces and the local government. He insisted that the Austrian army, when in Hungary, would come under Hungarian law, and this was conceded by the Austrian Empire. He tried to repatriate conscripted soldiers to Hungary. He established the Organisation of Militiamen, whose job was to ensure internal security. In May 1848 he started to organise the independent Hungarian Revolutionary Army and recruited men into it. Batthyány took control of the Organisation of Militiamen until Lázár Mészáros returned. At the same time, he was Minister of War.\n\nBatthyány was a very capable leader, but he was in the middle of a clash between the Austrian monarchy and the Hungarian separatists. He was devoted to the constitutional monarchy and aimed to uphold the constitution, but the Emperor was dissatisfied with his work. On 29 August, with the assent of parliament, Batthyány and Ferenc Deák went to the Emperor to ask him to order the Serbs to capitulate and to stop Jelačić, who was planning to attack Hungary. At the same time, Batthyány made Jelačić the offer that Croatia - as part of the lands of the Hungarian Crown -, could separate from it peacefully. Batthyány's efforts were unsuccessful: even though the Emperor formally relieved Jelačić of his duties, in practice Jelačić and his army invaded Hungary on 11 September 1848.\n\nSo Batthyány and his government resigned, except for Kossuth, Szemere, and Mészáros. Later, at the request of Archduke Stephen, Palatine of Hungary, Batthyány became Prime Minister again. On 13 September Batthyány announced a rebellion and requested that the Palatine lead it. However the Palatine, under orders from the Emperor, resigned his position and left Hungary.\n\nThe Emperor did not recognise the new government on 25 September. He also invalidated Batthyány's leadership and nominated Count Franz Philipp von Lamberg as the leader of the Hungarian army. But Lamberg was assassinated by the rebels in Pest on 28 September. Meanwhile, Batthyány travelled to Vienna again to seek a compromise with the Emperor.\n\nBatthyány was successful in his hurried efforts to organize the Hungarian Revolutionary Army: the new army defeated the Croatians on 29 September at the Battle of Pákozd.\n\nBatthyány realised that he could not compromise with the Emperor, so on 2 October he resigned again and nominated Miklós Vay as his successor. At the same time, Batthyány resigned his seat in parliament.\n\nAs an ordinary soldier, Batthyány joined József Vidos' army, and fought against general Kuzman Todorović, but on 11 October 1848 he fell off his horse and broke his arm.\n\nAfter Batthyány recovered he was again elected as a politician. Batthyány didn't want the Parliament to move to Debrecen. Because of his proposal the Parliament sent a delegation (including Batthyány himself) to General Alfred I, Prince of Windisch-Grätz to meet with him as the Parliament wanted to know Windisch-Grätz's purpose. But the general didn't want to meet with Batthyány, only with the other members of the delegation.\n\nOn 8 January 1849 Batthyány went back to Pest, where he was captured at the Károly Palace and imprisoned in the Budai barracks. When the Hungarian army was nearer Pest, Batthyány was taken away to Pozsony, Ljubljana and Olmütz (now Olomouc, Czech Republic). The Hungarians tried to rescue him many times, but Batthyány asked them not to. Batthyány insisted that his actions were legitimate and that the court had no jurisdiction.\n\nOn 16 August 1849 in Olmütz the Military Court sent Batthyány to his fate. At first they wanted to confiscate his possessions and give him a prison sentence, but under pressure from Prince Schwarzenberg and the Austrian Empire they instead sentenced Batthyány to death.\n\nThe Hungarians carried Batthyány to Pest, because they hoped that Haynau (in the name of the Emperor) would give him mercy, but Haynau sentenced him to hang. In her last visit, Batthyány's wife smuggled a small sword into the prison. Batthyány tried to commit suicide by cutting his jugular veins, but he failed in the attempt. Because of the scars on his neck, the court changed the sentence to execution by firing squad.\n\nOn the evening of 6 October Batthyány was drugged and because of this he walked to the New Building. He had lost much blood because of his suicide attempt so that two people had to escort him. He was relieved to see that there were no gallows. Johan Kempen, the commander of the military district in Pest and Buda knew that it was impossible to execute Batthyány by firing squad in his drugged state, but he sought no delay, so decided to shoot him in the head. Batthyány knelt in front of the firing squad and shouted: (\"Long live my country! Come on, huntsmen!\").\n\nBatthyány's funeral was in the city centre, in the vault of the Greyfriars Church. After the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, in 1870 his remains were moved to the newly built mausoleum in the Kerepesi Cemetery.\n\nBatthyány's parliamentary speeches are preserved in contemporary diaries and political newspapers. His essay on cultivating sugar beet was printed in the periodical in 1842.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52794025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52794025", "title": "List of NASCAR race wins by Tony Stewart", "text": "List of NASCAR race wins by Tony Stewart\n\nTony Stewart is an American racing driver who won three NASCAR Sprint Cup Series championships. Over the course of his racing career, Stewart won multiple NASCAR races, 49 of which were in NASCAR's Sprint Cup Series.\n\nIn the Cup Series, Tony Stewart, the 1999 Rookie of the Year and three-time series champion, has won 49 races at 21 different tracks.\n\nIn the Nationwide Series, Stewart has won eleven races.\n\nIn the Craftsman Truck Series, Stewart has won two races.\n"}
{"id": "79215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79215", "title": "List of biblical names starting with B", "text": "List of biblical names starting with B\n\n<br>\nA – B – C – D – E – F – G – H – I – J – K – L – M – N – O – P – Q – R – S – T – U – V – Y – Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3832641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832641", "title": "Lord Nicholas Hervey", "text": "Lord Nicholas Hervey\n\nLord Frederick William Charles Nicholas Wentworth Hervey () (26 November 1961 – 26 January 1998) was a British aristocrat and political activist. He was the only child born to the 6th Marquess of Bristol and his second wife, Lady Juliet Wentworth-FitzWilliam, and was heir presumptive to the Marquessate. At Yale University, Hervey founded the Rockingham Club, a society for the upper class royalty and aristocracy. He had clinical depression as an adult and committed suicide in 1998.\n\nHervey's mother was the only child of the wealthy 8th Earl Fitzwilliam; she was 13 years old when her father died in a small aircraft crash that also killed his intended second wife, Kathleen Cavendish, Marchioness of Hartington, sister of John F. Kennedy, in 1948. Lady Juliet was the sole heir to her father's estate, then estimated at £45 million. As an adult, she ran a family stud farm.\n\nHervey's parents married in 1960, his father for the second time, his mother for the first. He was the only child of that marriage. His father was Victor Hervey, 6th Marquess of Bristol, who also had significant inherited wealth, some of which he invested into new enterprises. He was once tagged \"Mayfair's No. 1 Playboy,\" in a series of \"life story\" articles he wrote after serving a gaol sentence for jewel robbery, a crime he claimed he had committed for a dare.\n\nHervey was the second heir to the title and estates of the Marquess of Bristol after his elder half-brother John, the 7th Marquess, the only child of his father's first marriage. Nicholas and John were fond of one another. When Nicholas was eleven years old, his mother divorced his father and married his 60-year-old friend, Somerset de Chair (d. 1996), with whom five years later she had a daughter, Helena de Chair. In 1996, his mother married for a third time and is now known as Lady Juliet Tadgell.\n\nHervey's father's final marriage was to his private secretary, Yvonne Sutton, and with her had three further children, Frederick Hervey, 8th Marquess of Bristol, at whose Roman Catholic christening Hervey stood godfather, and two daughters Lady Victoria and Lady Isabella Hervey.\n\nNicholas was known as a keen traditionalist. He was educated at Eton, Yale and the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. At Eton he was \"an industrious boy with plenty of initiative\"; he took part in the House debate, and during his last two halves (terms) was in the House Library (i.e., a prefect). He founded and was president of the Burlington Society, a fine arts society with an emphasis on modern art. He was also a member of the Agricultural and Political Societies, leaving Eton at Christmas 1979 with A-levels in French, Spanish and Economics. At Yale he took a degree in the History of Art and studied Economics in depth.\n\nIn 1981 he founded the Rockingham Club, a Yale social club for descendants of royalty and aristocracy, which was later modified to allow membership to the children of the \"super-wealthy\". The Club and Nicholas Hervey were profiled in Andy Warhol's \"Interview\" magazine but was dissolved shortly thereafter in 1986. (Nicholas' older half-brother John was posthumously reported to be a friend of Andy Warhol.) He was a member, through his mother, of the Turf Club, a gentlemen's club in Carlton House Terrace in central London connected to horse racing.\nHis sister Helena attended Bristol University.\n\nHe was a leading member of the International Monarchist League. He was elected President of its International Youth Association (under 21s) in February 1979 and recruited numerous new members. In 1985 he became a Vice-Chancellor of the League proper, and made the formal toast to the guests, The Prince and Princess of Lippe, at the League's Annual Dinner in the Cholmondeley Room, the House of Lords, on 1 April 1986. In later years he allowed his membership and vice-chancellorship to lapse.\n\nThrough the League, which his father had subsidised for many years, he became friendly with Gregory Lauder-Frost, who introduced him to numerous right-wing conservative activities. One such event, on 25 September 1989, was the Western Goals Institute dinner at Simpson's-in-the-Strand, chaired by Lord Sudeley, for the President of El Salvador, Alfredo Cristiani, and his inner cabinet.\n\nIn 1983, Lord Nicholas was diagnosed as with mild schizophrenia which was treated with medication. In 1986, he graduated from Yale University and, in 1991, voluntarily underwent treatment in a clinic.\n\nIn 1991, he was forced to declare bankruptcy due to lawyers' debts of £38,000 (which his trustees refused to fund), following the failure of the lawsuit, he and his elder half-brother brought against the principal beneficiaries of the will of their father, i.e., his third wife and their young children. His own mother, while on the Sunday Times Rich List (in 2003 her wealth was estimated at £45,000,000), did not act to prevent the bankruptcy, which immediately preceded his entry into a clinic. She subsequently declared that \"he was never himself again\" after the clinic stay.\n\nHe had severe depression and became increasingly reclusive. His landlady said that he \"drew no shred of comfort from the high rank and great riches to which he was born\" and that \"he was a recluse, in the sense that he was heavily sedated and slept all day – a typical schizophrenic. He was very quiet, very Old Etonian. He was a nice guy, but very 'out of it'. Nobody visited him here, except sometimes we would hear someone come and take him out to dinner.\"\n\nLord Nicholas Hervey was found dead in his Chelsea flat on 26 January 1998 at the age of 36, having hanged himself. He never married and had no children.\n\nHis half-brother, John Hervey, 7th Marquess of Bristol, died less than a year later.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "27115869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27115869", "title": "Luis Jorge Mayser Ardaya", "text": "Luis Jorge Mayser Ardaya\n\nLuis Jorge Mayser Ardaya (born July 21, 1928, San Ignacio de Velasco, Santa Cruz) is a Bolivian politician. He is the general secretary of the Bolivian Socialist Falange (FSB). Mayser joined FSB at the age of twelve.\n\nMayser was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1997, from the single-member constituency 58 in Santa Cruz (covering areas in the provinces Velasco, Chiquitos, Angel Sandoval and German Busch) on a Nationalist Democratic Action (ADN) ticket. At the time he was the sole FSB parliamentarian.\n\nIn 2004 Mayser was awarded the title \"hijo ilustre\" by the Santa Cruz de la Sierra municipal council, for his role in founding the Comité Pro Santa Cruz.\n\nMayser is the author of \"Alto Paragua: Verdaderas Guerrillas Bolivianas\", an account of the struggle of the FSB against the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement government. He has also authored \"Santa Cruz y sus provincias\".\n"}
{"id": "4276999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4276999", "title": "Marilou Awiakta", "text": "Marilou Awiakta\n\nMarilou Awiakta (born January 24, 1936, Knoxville, Tennessee) is a poet whose perspective fuses her Cherokee, Scots-Irish, and Appalachian heritage with experiences of growing up in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, on the atomic frontier. \nShe is internationally known for her poetry and cultural essays.\n\nMarilou Awiakta is the seventh generation of her family to grow up in Appalachia, mostly in East Tennessee. Since 1730, her family has lived in the mountainous area of the state.\n\nAwiakta graduated from the University of Tennessee in 1958 receiving a B.A. \"magna cum laude\", in both English and French. She worked as a civilian liaison officer and translator for the U.S. Air Force at Laon-Couvron Air Base, France from 1964-1967 where her husband, Dr. Paul Thompson, was based.\n\nShe lives in Memphis, Tennessee, where she has worked in the Arts-In-Schools program and formed poetry workshops in the Women's Prison. She was co-founder of the Far Away Cherokee Association which is now the Native American Intertribal Association.\nShe has conducted many programs and writers' workshops nationwide, including Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, Georgia, Alaska, Massachusetts, Kentucky, New York, and California.\n\nIn July 2014, editors in France featured her work in www.recoursaupoeme.fr\n\n\n\nAwiakta's poetry is analysed at length in \"Our Fire Survives the Storm\" by Daniel Heath Justice (Cherokee Nation).\n\n"}
{"id": "20833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20833", "title": "Mary Tyler Moore", "text": "Mary Tyler Moore\n\nMary Tyler Moore (December 29, 1936 – January 25, 2017) was an American actress, known for her roles in the television sitcoms \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" (1970–1977), in which she starred as Mary Richards, a single woman working as a local news producer in Minneapolis, and \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" (1961–1966), in which she played Laura Petrie, a former dancer turned Westchester homemaker, wife and mother. Her film work includes 1967's \"Thoroughly Modern Millie\" and 1980's \"Ordinary People\", in which she played a role that was very different from the television characters she had portrayed, and for which she was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress.\n\nDue to her roles on both \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" and \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", in which her characters often broke from stereotypical images of women and pushed gender norms, Moore became a cultural icon and served as an inspiration for many younger actresses, professional women, and feminists. She was later active in charity work and various political causes, particularly the issues of animal rights, vegetarianism and diabetes. She was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes early in the run of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". She also suffered from alcoholism, which she wrote about in her first of two memoirs. She died from cardiopulmonary arrest due to pneumonia at the age of 80 on January 25, 2017.\n\nMoore was born in Brooklyn, New York, to George Tyler Moore (1913–2006), a clerk, and his wife Marjorie Hackett (1916–1992). Moore was the oldest of three children (her siblings were John and Elizabeth). Moore's family lived on Ocean Parkway in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Her paternal great-grandfather Lieutenant Colonel Lewis Tilghman Moore owned the house which is now the Stonewall Jackson's Headquarters Museum in Winchester, Virginia. When she was eight years old, Moore's family moved to Los Angeles at the recommendation of Moore's uncle, an MCA employee. She was raised Catholic, and attended St. Rose of Lima Parochial School in Brooklyn until the third grade. She then attended Saint Ambrose School in Los Angeles, followed by Immaculate Heart High School in Los Feliz, California. Moore's sister, Elizabeth, died at age 21 \"from a combination of...painkillers and alcohol\" while her brother died at age 47 from kidney cancer.\n\nMoore decided at age 17 that she wanted to be a dancer. Her television career began with Moore's first job as \"Happy Hotpoint\", a tiny elf dancing on Hotpoint appliances in TV commercials during the 1950s series \"Ozzie and Harriet\". After appearing in 39 Hotpoint commercials in five days, she received approximately $6,000. She became pregnant while still working as \"Happy\" and Hotpoint ended her work when it was too difficult to conceal her pregnancy with the elf costume. Moore modeled anonymously on the covers of a number of record albums and auditioned for the role of the older daughter of Danny Thomas for his long-running TV show, but was turned down. Much later, Thomas explained that \"she missed it by a nose... no daughter of mine could ever have a nose that small.\"\n\nMoore's first regular television role was as a mysterious and glamorous telephone receptionist on \"Richard Diamond, Private Detective\". On the show, Moore's voice was heard, but only her legs appeared on camera, adding to the character's mystique. About this time, she guest-starred on John Cassavetes's NBC detective series \"Johnny Staccato\". She also guest-starred in \"Bachelor Father\" in the episode titled \"Bentley and the Big Board\". In 1960, she was featured in two episodes of the William Bendix-Doug McClure NBC western series, \"Overland Trail\" and several months later in the first episode of NBC's one-season \"The Tab Hunter Show\", a sitcom starring the former teen idol as a bachelor cartoonist. In 1961, Moore appeared in several big parts in movies and on television, including \"Bourbon Street Beat\", \"77 Sunset Strip\", \"Surfside 6\", \"Wanted: Dead or Alive\", \"Steve Canyon\", \"Hawaiian Eye\", \"Thriller\" and \"Lock-Up\".\n\nIn 1961, Carl Reiner cast Moore in \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", a weekly series based on Reiner's own life and career as a writer for Sid Caesar's television variety show \"Your Show of Shows\", telling the cast from the outset that it would run for no more than five years. The show was produced by Danny Thomas' company, and Thomas himself recommended her. He remembered Moore as \"the girl with three names\" whom he had turned down earlier. Moore's energetic comic performances as Van Dyke's character's wife, begun at age 24 (11 years Van Dyke's junior), made both the actress and her signature tight capri pants extremely popular, and she became internationally known. When she won her first Emmy Award for her portrayal of Laura Petrie, she said, \"I know this will never happen again\".\n\nIn 1970, after having appeared earlier in a pivotal one-hour musical special called \"Dick Van Dyke and the Other Woman\", Moore and husband Grant Tinker successfully pitched a sitcom centered on Moore to CBS. \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" is a half-hour newsroom sitcom featuring Ed Asner as her gruff boss Lou Grant. Moore's show proved so popular that three other regular characters, Valerie Harper as Rhoda Morgenstern, Cloris Leachman as Phyllis Lindstrom and Ed Asner as Lou Grant were also spun off into their own series. The premise of the single working woman's life, alternating during the program between work and home, became a television staple.\n\nAfter six years of ratings in the top 20, the show slipped to number 39 during season seven. Producers decided to cancel the series because of falling ratings, afraid that the show's legacy might be damaged if it were renewed for another season. Despite the decline in ratings, the 1977 season would go on to win an Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series, to add to the awards it had won in 1975 and 1976. All in all, during its seven seasons, the program held the record for winning the most Emmys – 29. That record remained unbroken until 2002 when the NBC sitcom \"Frasier\" won its 30th Emmy. \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" became a touchpoint of the Women's Movement for its portrayal of an independent working woman, which challenged the traditional woman's role in marriage and family.\n\nDuring season six of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", Moore appeared in a musical/variety special for CBS titled \"Mary's Incredible Dream\", which featured Ben Vereen. In 1978, she starred in a second CBS special, \"How to Survive the '70s and Maybe Even Bump Into Happiness\". This time, she received significant support from a strong lineup of guest stars: Bill Bixby, John Ritter, Harvey Korman and Dick Van Dyke. In the 1978–79 season, Moore attempted to try the musical-variety genre by starring in two unsuccessful CBS variety series in a row: \"Mary\", which featured David Letterman, Michael Keaton, Swoosie Kurtz and Dick Shawn in the supporting cast. CBS canceled the series. In March 1979, the network brought Moore back in a new, retooled show, \"The Mary Tyler Moore Hour\", which was described as a \"sit-var\" (part situation comedy/part variety series) with Moore portraying a TV star putting on a variety show. The program lasted just 11 episodes.\n\nIn the 1985–86 season, she returned to CBS in a series titled \"Mary\", which suffered from poor reviews, sagging ratings, and internal strife within the production crew. According to Moore, she asked CBS to pull the show as she was unhappy with the direction of the program and the producers. She also starred in the short-lived \"Annie McGuire\" in 1988. In 1995, after another lengthy break from TV series work, Moore was cast as tough, unsympathetic newspaper owner Louise \"the Dragon\" Felcott on the CBS drama \"New York News\", her third series in which her character worked in the news industry. As with her previous series \"Mary\" (1985), Moore quickly became unhappy with the nature of her character and was negotiating with producers to get out of her contract for the series when it was canceled.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Moore had a cameo and a guest-starring role as herself on two episodes of \"Ellen\". She also guest-starred on Ellen DeGeneres's next TV show, \"The Ellen Show\", in 2001. In 2004, Moore reunited with her \"Dick Van Dyke Show\" castmates for a reunion \"episode\" called \"The Dick Van Dyke Show Revisited\".\n\nIn 2006, Moore guest-starred as Christine St. George, a high-strung host of a fictional TV show, on three episodes of Fox sitcom \"That '70s Show\". Moore's scenes were shot on the same soundstage where \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" was filmed in the 1970s. Moore made a guest appearance on the season two premiere of \"Hot in Cleveland\", which starred her former co-star Betty White. This marked the first time that White and Moore had worked together since \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" ended in 1977. In the fall of 2013, Moore reprised her role on \"Hot in Cleveland\" in a season four episode which not only reunited Moore and White, but also former MTM cast members Cloris Leachman, Valerie Harper and Georgia Engel as well. This reunion coincided with Harper's public announcement that she had been diagnosed with terminal brain cancer and was given only a few months to live.\n\nMoore appeared in several Broadway plays. She starred in \"Whose Life Is It Anyway\" with James Naughton, which opened on Broadway at the Royale Theatre on February 24, 1980, and ran for 96 performances, and in \"Sweet Sue\", which opened at the Music Box Theatre on January 8, 1987, later transferred to the Royale Theatre, and ran for 164 performances. She was the star of a new musical version of \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\" in December 1966, but the show, titled \"Holly Golightly\", was a flop that closed in previews before opening on Broadway. In reviews of performances in Philadelphia and Boston, critics \"murdered\" the play in which Moore claimed to be singing with bronchial pneumonia.\n\nMoore appeared in previews of the Neil Simon play \"Rose's Dilemma\" at the off-Broadway Manhattan Theatre Club in December 2003 but quit the production after receiving a critical letter from Simon instructing her to \"learn your lines or get out of my play\". Moore had been using an earpiece on stage to feed her lines to the repeatedly rewritten play.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Moore and her production company produced five plays: \"Noises Off\", \"The Octette Bridge Club\", \"Joe Egg\", \"Benefactors\", and \"Safe Sex\".\n\nMoore made her film debut in 1961's \"X-15\". Following her success on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", she appeared in a string of films in the late 1960s (after signing an exclusive contract with Universal Pictures), including 1967's hit \"Thoroughly Modern Millie\", as a would-be actress in 1920s New York who is taken under the wing of Julie Andrews' title character, and the 1968 films \"What's So Bad About Feeling Good?\" with George Peppard, and \"Don't Just Stand There!\" with Robert Wagner.\n\nIn 1969, she starred opposite Elvis Presley as a nun in \"Change of Habit\". Moore's future television castmate Ed Asner also appeared in that film as a police officer. Moore did not appear in another feature film for eleven years. On her return to the big screen in 1980, she received her only Oscar nomination for her role in the coming-of-age drama \"Ordinary People\", as a grieving mother unable to cope either with the drowning death of one of her sons or the subsequent suicide attempt of her surviving son, played by Timothy Hutton who won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in the film. Despite that success, Moore's only two films in the next fifteen years were the poorly received \"Six Weeks\" (1982) and \"Just Between Friends\" (1986). In 1996 she made her return to films with the independent hit \"Flirting with Disaster\".\n\nMoore appeared in the television movie \"Run a Crooked Mile\" (1969), and after the conclusion of her series in 1977, she starred in several prominent movies for television, including \"First, You Cry\" (1978), which brought her an Emmy nomination for portraying NBC correspondent Betty Rollin's struggle with breast cancer. Her later TV films included the medical drama \"Heartsounds\" (1984) with James Garner, which brought her another Emmy nomination, \"Finnegan Begin Again\" (1985) with Robert Preston, which earned her a CableACE Award nomination, the 1988 mini-series \"Lincoln\", which brought her another Emmy nod for playing Mary Todd Lincoln, and \"Stolen Babies\", for which she won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in 1993. Later she reunited with old co-stars in \"Mary and Rhoda\" (2000) with Valerie Harper, and \"The Gin Game\" (2003) (based on the Broadway play), reuniting her with Dick Van Dyke. Moore also starred in \"Like Mother, Like Son\" (2001), playing convicted murderer Sante Kimes.\n\nMoore wrote two memoirs. In the first, \"After All\", published in 1995, she acknowledged that she was a recovering alcoholic, while in \"Growing Up Again: Life, Loves, and Oh Yeah, Diabetes\" (2009), she focuses on living with type 1 diabetes .\n\nMoore and her husband Grant Tinker founded MTM Enterprises, Inc. in 1969. This company produced \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" and several other television shows and films. It also included a record label, MTM Records. MTM Enterprises produced a variety of American sitcoms and drama television series such as \"Rhoda\", \"Lou Grant\" and \"Phyllis\" (all spin-offs from \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show)\", \"The Bob Newhart Show\", \"The Texas Wheelers\", \"WKRP in Cincinnati\", \"The White Shadow\", \"Friends and Lovers\", \"St. Elsewhere\" and \"Hill Street Blues\", and was later sold to Television South, an ITV Franchise holder in 1988. The MTM logo resembles the Metro Goldwyn Mayer logo, but with a cat named Mimsie instead of a lion.\n\nAt age 18 in 1955, Moore married Richard Carleton Meeker, whom she described as \"the boy next door\", and within six weeks she was pregnant with her only child, Richard Jr. (born July 3, 1956). Meeker and Moore divorced in 1961. Moore married Grant Tinker, a CBS executive (later chairman of NBC), in 1962, and in 1970 they formed the television production company MTM Enterprises, which created and produced the company's first television series, \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". Moore and Tinker divorced in 1981.\n\nOn October 14, 1980, at the age of 24, Moore's son Richard died of an accidental gunshot to the head while handling a small .410 shotgun. The model was later taken off the market because of its \"hair trigger\".\n\nMoore married Robert Levine on November 23, 1983, at the Pierre Hotel in New York City. They met when Moore’s mother was treated by him in New York City on a weekend house call, after Moore and her mother returned from a visit to the Vatican where they had a personal audience with Pope John Paul II.\n\nMoore was a recovered alcoholic, and had been diagnosed with Type I diabetes in 1969, after having a miscarriage. In 2011, she had surgery to remove a meningioma, a benign brain tumor. In 2014, friends reported that she had heart and kidney problems and was nearly blind.\n\nMoore died at the age of 80 on January 25, 2017, at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Connecticut from cardiopulmonary arrest complicated by pneumonia after having been placed on a respirator the previous week. She was interred in Oak Lawn Cemetery, in Fairfield, Connecticut, during a private ceremony.\n\nIn addition to her acting work, Moore was the International Chairman of JDRF (formerly the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation). In this role, she used her celebrity to help raise funds and awareness of diabetes mellitus type 1.\n\nIn 2007, in honor of Moore's dedication to the Foundation, JDRF created the \"Forever Moore\" research initiative which will support JDRF's Academic Research and Development and JDRF's Clinical Development Program. The program works on translating basic research advances into new treatments and technologies for those living with type 1 diabetes.\n\nA long-time animal rights activist, she had advocated for animal rights for years, and supported charities like the ASPCA and Farm Sanctuary. She helped raise awareness about factory farming methods and promoted more compassionate treatment of farm animals. She was a pescetarian.\n\nMoore appeared as herself in 1996 on an episode of the Ellen DeGeneres sitcom \"Ellen\". The storyline of the episode includes Moore honoring Ellen for trying to save a 65-year-old lobster from being eaten at a seafood restaurant. She was also a co-founder of Broadway Barks, an annual animal adopt-a-thon held in New York City. Moore and friend Bernadette Peters worked to make it a no-kill city and to encourage adopting animals from shelters.\n\nIn honor of her father, George Tyler Moore, a lifelong American Civil War enthusiast, in 1995 Moore donated funds to acquire an historic structure in Shepherdstown, West Virginia, for Shepherd College (now Shepherd University) to be used as a center for Civil War studies. The center, named the George Tyler Moore Center for the Study of the Civil War, is housed in the historic Conrad Shindler House (c. 1795), which is named in honor of her great-great-great-grandfather, who owned the structure from 1815 to 1852.\n\nMoore also contributed to the renovation of the house used as headquarters during 1861–62 by Confederate Major General Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson. Use of the house had been offered to Jackson by its owner, Lieutenant Colonel Lewis Tilghman Moore, commander of the 4th Virginia Infantry and a great-grandfather of Mary Tyler Moore.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Moore had a reputation as a liberal or moderate, although she endorsed President Richard Nixon in 1972. She endorsed President Jimmy Carter for re-election in a 1980 campaign television ad. In 2011, friend and former co-star Ed Asner said during an interview on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" that Moore \"has become much more conservative of late\". Bill O'Reilly, host of the aforementioned program, previously stated that Moore had been a viewer of his show and that her political views had leaned conservative in recent years. In a \"Parade\" magazine article from March 22, 2009, Moore identified herself as a libertarian centrist who watches Fox News. She stated, \"...when one looks at what's happened to television, there are so few shows that interest me. I do watch a lot of Fox News. I like Charles Krauthammer and Bill O'Reilly... If McCain had asked me to campaign for him, I would have.\" In an interview for the 2013 PBS series \"Pioneers of Television,\" Moore said that she was recruited to join the feminist movement of the 1970s by Gloria Steinem but did not agree with Steinem's views. Moore said she believed that women have an important role in raising children and that she did not believe in Steinem's view that women owe it to themselves to have a career.\n\nIn February 1981, Moore was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in the drama film \"Ordinary People\" but lost to Sissy Spacek for her role in \"Coal Miner's Daughter\". In 1981 she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Drama for that role.\n\nMoore received a total of seven Emmy Awards.\n\nOn Broadway, Moore received a special Tony Award for her performance in \"Whose Life Is It Anyway?\" in 1980, and was nominated for a Drama Desk Award as well. In addition, as a producer, she received nominations for Tony Awards and Drama Desk Awards for MTM's productions of \"Noises Off\" in 1984 and \"Benefactors\" in 1986, and won a Tony Award for Best Reproduction of a Play or Musical in 1985 for \"Joe Egg\".\n\nIn 1986, she was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame. In 1987, she received a Lifetime Achievement Award in Comedy from the American Comedy Awards.\n\nMoore's contributions to the television industry were recognized in 1992 with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The star is located at 7021 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nOn May 8, 2002, Moore was present when cable network TV Land and the City of Minneapolis dedicated a statue in downtown Minneapolis of the television character she made famous on \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". The statue, by artist Gwendolyn Gillen, was chosen from designs submitted by 21 sculptors. The bronze sculpture was located in front of the Dayton's department store – now Macy's – near the corner of 7th Street South and Nicollet Mall. It depicts the iconic moment in the show's opening credits where Moore tosses her Tam o' Shanter in the air, in a freeze-frame at the end of the montage. While Dayton's is clearly seen in the opening sequence, the store in the background of the hat toss is actually Donaldson's, which was, like Dayton's, a locally based department store with a long history at 7th and Nicollet. In late 2015 the statue was placed in storage during renovations to the mall, and in December it was relocated to the city's visitor center, where it will remain until the renovation is complete in 2017, after which the plan is for it to be returned to its original location.\n\nMoore was awarded the 2011 Screen Actors Guild's lifetime achievement award. In New York City in 2012, Moore and Bernadette Peters were honored by the Ride of Fame and a double-decker bus was dedicated to them and their charity work on behalf of \"Broadway Barks\", which the duo co-founded.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "54855068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54855068", "title": "Mary V. Riley", "text": "Mary V. Riley\n\nMary V. Riley (December 24, 1908 – October 5, 1987) was an Apache tribal council member who was instrumental in the economic development of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. She was the first woman to be elected to serve on the tribal council and worked toward bringing timber and tourism industries to the reservation to ensure their economic stability. She was inducted into the Arizona Women's Hall of Fame posthumously in 1988.\n\nMary Velasquez was born on December 24, 1908 at Fort Apache, on the White Mountain Apache Reservation to Nalatzalay (Belle née Ivins) and Jesus Velasquez. Her father was born in Fort Davis, Texas to Mexican nationals from Coahuila, Martín and Juana (née Rivers) Velasquez, and came to Fort Apache traveling with soldiers from Ft. Davis, as a child with his mother. He worked for a time as a translator and scout and then managed a ranch where he provided supplies to the soldiers at the fort. Her mother was a full-blood Apache and the daughter of Nadischaay. Velasquez and her siblings grew up on their father's farm, helping with farm chores. She attended three years of school, but was forced to leave in the 1918 flu pandemic to help with sick relatives.\n\nThough she was unable to return to school, Velasquez became fluent in three languages: Apache, Spanish, and English. She read newspapers widely. Velasquez first married Kurt Johnson and then around 1936, married Peter Kessay Riley, with whom she raised her five children, all of whom were also trilingual, and to whom she stressed the importance of gaining an education. She farmed as her father had, raising corn, potatoes, pumpkin and squash, as well as turkey, goat and sheep.\n\nIn 1958, Riley became the first woman elected to serve on the White Mountain Apache Tribal Council. She served on the health, education and welfare committee of the tribe and at various times, chaired the committee. She made numerous trips to both the state capital, Phoenix and federal capital in Washington, D. C., lobbying on behalf of the tribe. In an effort to improve situations for tribal members, she evaluated many programs for both economic and socio-cultural gains, looking at federal programs such as Job Corps the Boy Scouts of America, and Bureau of Indian Affairs loan programs for economic development. Riley represented three districts of the reservation and was instrumental in projects, such as the Alchesay-Williams Creek National Fish Hatchery Complex, the Fort Apache Timber Company (FATCO), and the Sunrise Park Ski Resort and Hotel, among others, to expand the tribal enterprises and provide economic stability for the tribe.\n\nGround was broken for FATCO in 1962 and by 1963 had replaced the hiring of outside operators to manage the timber reserves of the tribe. By managing their own lumber harvests and operating three saw mills, the tribe was able to provide both jobs for tribal members and goods to sell to a wider clientele. Around the same time, the Alchesay-Williams Hatchery was developed to stock the local lakes which had been created on the reservation and protect species listed as threatened or endangered. Employment opportunities for tribal members were increased through jobs at the hatchery, related jobs in the tourism sector, and additional revenues were garnered through the sale of fishing licenses. One of the largest projects was to convert 1.6 million acres of their lands into the Sunrise Park Resort. Constructing 20 recreational lakes, campsites, fishing and hunting venues, a ski resort, and hotels, the Tribal Council utilized their lands to generate a year-round tourist industry.\n\nRiley was interviewed as part of an Oral History Project sponsored by the Arizona State Department of Libraries and Archives in 1977. After twenty years on the council, Riley retired in 1978. She was honored by the state in 1984 during the Statehood Day Celebrations for her leadership and development. Profits from FATCO were used to build the Mary V. Riley Building, which houses the tribal educational department.\n\nRiley died on October 5, 1987 at White Mountain River Indian Hospital in Whiteriver, Arizona. Posthumously, she was inducted into the Arizona Women's Hall of Fame, in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "16265755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16265755", "title": "Mohamed Chalali", "text": "Mohamed Chalali\n\nMohamed Chalali (born 4 April 1989) is an Algerian footballer. He plays for Boulogne-Billancourt in the Championnat National 2.\n\nChalali was born in Montreuil-sous-Bois, Paris, to Algerian parents. His family is originally from the village of Ighil Ouantar, in the Seddouk District of Béjaïa.\n\nChalali began his career with CA Romainville before he was scouted in summer 2003 from Le Havre AC. He made his Ligue 2 debut on 2 November 2007, coming on as a substitute against EA Guingamp. On 15 July 2009 he agreed a contract with LB Châteauroux.\n\nOn 23 August 2010, Chalali signed a three-year contract with Greek club Panionios, joining them on a free transfer from Châteauroux. He made 12 league appearances for the club, 5 of which were as substitute.\n\nThe 2011 Greek riots motivated Chalali to seek a move abroad, and former Rangers defender and fellow Algerian Majid Bougherra recommended that he consider playing in Scotland. On 23 August 2011, Chalali signed for Scottish Premier League club Aberdeen. He had been recommended to Aberdeen manager Craig Brown by former Superleague Greece colleague Youl Mawene, and had impressed during a trial earlier in the same month. Brown said Chalali had been the most impressive of all the trialists at the club in the 2011 summer transfer window, including Icelandic international Kari Arnason and former Dutch under-21 Maceo Rigters.\n\nOn the same day, despite having gone without sleep the previous evening to return to Greece to retrieve transfer-related paperwork, Chalali made his debut for Aberdeen as a second-half substitute in a 2011-12 Scottish League Cup win against Dundee. He was assigned squad number 18 for the 2011–12 Scottish Premier League season, and made his league debut, also as a substitute, in a 2–0 defeat away to Rangers on 28 August 2011. He made his first start for the club in an Aberdeenshire Cup semi-final fixture against Deveronvale the following day.\n\nHe scored his first goals for the club on 13 September 2011 in a testimonial match against Highland League side Keith, where he got a double and created another in a 6–0 victory. His first league start came in a 2–2 draw against Kilmarnock on 17 September 2011.\nHe scored his first league goal for Aberdeen at Tannadice against Dundee United, scoring the equaliser to make it 1–1, in a game which Aberdeen went on to win 2–1. In the same week he scored his second competitive goal for Aberdeen, in a 4–0 win in the Scottish Cup against Forfar. Near the end of the 2011–12 season, Chalali was advised that his contract with Aberdeen would not be extended.\n\nOn 10 August 2012, Chalali signed a two-year contract with Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 club ES Sétif.\n\nChalali has three caps with the Algerian Under 20 National Team. On 12 October 2010, Chalali made his debut for the Algerian Under-23 National Team in a 1–0 friendly win over Qatar.\n\nHe went on to become captain of the U-23 side. In August 2011, he informed Aberdeen that he was likely to feature in the 2011 CAF U-23 Championship, a tournament that also serves as the qualification process for the 2012 Olympics, and that he had ambitions to represent the full national side in the qualifiers for the 2012 African Cup of Nations. On 16 November 2011, he was selected as part of Algeria's squad for the 2011 CAF U-23 Championship in Morocco.\n\n"}
{"id": "58222003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58222003", "title": "Nigel R. Franks", "text": "Nigel R. Franks\n\nNigel R. Franks (born 21 August 1956) is an English emeritus professor of Animal Behaviour and Ecology at the University of Bristol. He obtained a BSc and PhD in biology at the University of Leeds.. After receiving his BSc in 1977 he began his PhD, during which he spent two years doing field work in Panama on army ants with the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. He was awarded the Thomas Henry Huxley Award in 1980 from the Zoological Society of London for the best British PhD in Zoology. He then received a Postdoctoral Fellowship from the Royal Commission for the Great Exhibition of 1851 allowing him to undertake postdoctoral work under Edward O. Wilson at Harvard University before becoming a lecturer at the University of Bath in 1982, later being promoted to full professor in 1995. He moved to the University of Bristol in 2001. He is renowned for his studies of collective animal behaviour, particularly of ant colonies. His Ant Lab at Bristol pioneered the use of Temnothorax (Temnothorax albipennis) as a model ant species for the study of collective decision-making and complex systems. In a 2009 profile in Science he discusses his pioneering use of radio-frequency identification tags (RFID) glued to the backs of each ant for tracking individuals in their society. His book \"Social evolution in ants\" with Andrew Bourke was an important contribution to the understanding of kin selection theory and sex ratio theory with respect to social evolution in insects, while his co-authored book \"Self-organization in biological systems\" has been cited well over 3000 times\n\nTemnothorax albipennis ants have been observed teaching each other through a process known as tandem running. An experienced forager leads a naive nest-mate to a newly discovered resource such as food or an empty nest site. The follower obtains knowledge of the route by following in the footsteps of the tutor, maintaining contact with its antennae. Both leader and follower are aware of the progress made by the other with the leader slowing when the follower lags and speeding up when the follower gets too close. Depending on how far away a new resource is, colonies will modulate the number of tandem runs that they perform, with a greater number of tandem runs occurring when the desired resource is more distant. Furthermore, the relative contribution that workers make to this process differs widely among individuals, with certain ants attempting many more tandem runs than others.\n"}
{"id": "8417021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8417021", "title": "Olly Smith", "text": "Olly Smith\n\nOlly Smith (born 18 September 1974) is a British TV presenter, wine expert, columnist and author.\n\nHis brother is the comedian and writer Will Smith. Olly Smith was born in Jersey. He lives in Sussex with his family.\n\nSmith is wine editor of \"The Mail on Sunday\"'s Event Magazine and writes a weekly wine column. He has formerly written columns for \"Wine & Spirit\", \"Men's Health\", and Waitrose and Sainsbury's supermarket magazines, and features for such publications as \"The Independent on Sunday\", \"London Lite\", and \"Country Life\".\n\nSmith has written three books, \"Eat & Drink: Good Food That’s Great to Drink With\" in 2010, \"Wine: Both Barrels\" in 2012, and \"Behind Enemy Wines\" in 2013.\n\nSmith previously wrote for film and TV including Pingu, Wallace and Gromit and Charlie and Lola.\n\nSmith regularly appears as a wine expert on BBC1's \"Saturday Kitchen\" and is a frequent guest on ITV's \"This Morning\". In September 2014 Smith presented a four-part series \"Last Taste of Summer\", which aired on \"This Morning\".\n\nSmith was host of the short-lived \"Iron Chef UK\" during 2010.\n\nIn 2011, Smith presented a ten-part series for Channel 4 entitled \"The Secret Supper Club\". Outside of the UK, he presented a documentary series about Chilean wine, \"Uncorking the South\", for Canal 13.\n\nHe is also a voice-over artist, narrating \"Chic Eats\" for The Discovery Channel, performing voices for ITV show \"The Amazing Adrenalini Brothers\" as well as writing and presenting \"Dude, Where's My Title?\" for BBC Radio 4. He also performed alongside Roger Moore in \"The Fly Who Loved Me\" Christmas cartoon for UNICEF.\n\nIn 2011, Smith was named by Off License News among the top 75 most influential people in the UK wine trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24804170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24804170", "title": "Oumar Baldé", "text": "Oumar Baldé\n\nOumar Balde (1931–?) was a Guinean engineer. He served a director of the Highways Department and secretary-general of the Organization of States Bordering the Senegal River under Sékou Touré. After his arrest, he was neither tried nor sentenced, and is believed to have died in detention in Kindia .\n"}
{"id": "26536750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26536750", "title": "Pandelela Rinong", "text": "Pandelela Rinong\n\nPandelela Rinong Anak Pamg, (born 2 March 1993) is a Malaysian diver specialises in the 10-metre platform event. She is a two-time Olympic medalist and has won a total of four medals at the World Championships.\n\nPandelela represented Malaysia at the 2008 Summer Olympics where she finished 27th in 10m platform. She won the gold medal at the 2010 Commonwealth Games. She was chosen to be the flagbearer of Malaysia at the 2012 Summer Olympics. She went on to win the bronze medal in the 10m platform, becoming the first Malaysian female athlete to win an Olympic medal, as well as the first in any sport other than badminton. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, she won the silver medal in the 10m synchronized platform with Cheong Jun Hoong.\n\nPandelela was born in (Kampung) Kupuo Jugan, a Bidayuh village in Bau, Sarawak to Hartini Lamin and Pamg Joheng. She is of Bidayuh ethnicity, a Bumiputera native to the Malaysian state of Sarawak. She is the second of four siblings. At the age of seven she was selected as a state diver and continued her training at the Bukit Jalil Sports School. She graduated from University of Malaya in 2018, majoring in Sports Management Science.\n\nPandelela speaks Mandarin Chinese as well as her Bidayuh mother tongue, Bahasa Malaysia and English. \n\nPandelela made her international competition debut in 2007 at the Asian Junior Aquatics Championships where she won four gold medals. At the 2007 Southeast Asian Games in Thailand, she won the gold medal in 10m synchronized platform with Cheong Jun Hoong.\n\nPandelela made her Olympic debut at the 2008 Beijing Olympics as a 15 year old. She finished 27th in the 10 m platform. At the 2009 World Aquatics Championships, she finished fifth in the 10 m platform. She went on to win the bronze medal in the 10 m synchronized platform with Leong Mun Yee where it was also the first-ever diving medal for Malaysia at the World Championships.\n\nPandelela won two gold medal at the 2009 Southeast Asian Games in Vientiane. She was the flag bearer for the Malaysian contingent at the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics in Singapore where she won the silver medals in the 10 m platform event and 3 m springboard event.\n\nAt the 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, she won Malaysia's first ever Commonwealth Games gold medal in an aquatic sport by winning the 10 m platform event. At the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, she won the bronze medal in 10 m platform and the silver medal in 10m synchronized platform with Leong Mun Yee.\n\nPandelela was chosen to be the flag bearer of Malaysia at the 2012 Summer Olympics Parade of Nations where she is first national female athlete to be accorded the honour. She competed in the individual 10 m platform, 3m synchronized springboard with Cheong Jun Hoong and the 10 m synchronised platform event with Leong Mun Yee.\n\nShe became the first Malaysian female athlete to win an Olympics medal, and the first Malaysian athlete to win an Olympics medal in a sport besides badminton by winning a bronze medal in the 10 m platform at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. To commemorate her success, she was presented with the Johan Bintang Kenyalang (Companion of the Order of the Star of Hornbill) by the Sarawak State Government, in a special investiture ceremony held at the Astana shortly after her triumphant return to her homeland. She became Sarawak's first athlete to be accorded with the award.\n\nAt the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Pandelela and Mun Yee clinch the bronze medal in 10m synchronized platform with 331.14 points. She also finished sixth in individual 10m platform event. At the 2013 Southeast Asian Games in Naypyidaw, she retained her gold medal in 10m platform event.\n\nPandelela competed at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. Despite a knee injury, she won the bronze medal in 10m synchronized platform with Nur Dhabitah Sabri. She also bagged a silver in the 10m platform with a score of 368.55 points. At the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, she won the bronze medal in 10 m synchro platform with Leong Mun Yee.\n\nIn July 2015, Pandelela made history when she became the first Malaysian to finish on the podium in an individual event at the World Aquatics Championships. She clinched a bronze medal in the individual 10 m platform in Kazan and qualify for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics in Brazil.\n\nAt the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, she won the silver medal in the 10 m synchronized platform with Cheong Jun Hoong, becoming the first Malaysian women's team to win a silver medal at the Olympics. In honour of her achievement at the 2016 Summer Olympics, The Sarawak Aquatic Centre in Petra Jaya, Sarawak was officially named Pandelela Rinong Aquatic Centre. After 2016 Summer Olympics, Pandelela took a break to recuperate from back and shoulder injuries.\n\nAt the 2017 World Aquatics Championships in Budapest, she won the bronze medal in 10 m synchronized platform with Cheong Jun Hoong. She finished ninth in the individual 10m platform which was won by her partner, Jun Hoong. At the 2017 Southeast Asian Games in Kuala Lumpur, she won the gold medal in newly introduced team event with Gabriel Gilbert Daim. She also retained her gold medal in the individual 10m platform event.\n\n\n\nIn June 2018, Pandelela and six other divers were caught in controversy after a video showed them partying and drinking alcohol during a training camp in Guangzhou, China. The video was allegedly recorded on the eve of Chinese New Year day. Following the incident, the Amateur Swimming Union of Malaysia (ASUM) suspended the allowances of the seven national divers with immediate effect with more disciplinary action set to follow. Pandelela and the six other divers apologised publicly and promised the incident will not be repeated. ASUM announced later that no further action will be taken to the seven divers as the divers have already expressed remorse for their actions. \n\n"}
{"id": "22400674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22400674", "title": "Phil Radford", "text": "Phil Radford\n\nPhilip David Radford (born January 2, 1976) is an American environmental, clean energy and democracy leader who served as the youngest executive director of Greenpeace USA. He is the founder and President of Progressive Power Lab, an organization that incubates companies and non-profits that build capacity for progressive organizations, including the Progressive Multiplier Fund and Membership Drive. Radford is a co-founder of the Democracy Initiative, was founder and executive director of Power Shift, and is a board member of the Mertz Gilmore Foundation. He has a background in grassroots organizing, corporate social responsibility, climate change, and clean energy. Radford lives in Washington, D.C. with his wife Eileen.\n\nRadford's theory of change shifted from viewing governments as arbitrators between public and private interests on environmental issues, to finding that most governments are captured by industry. Rather than fighting first for new laws, which could be blocked by industries, he has focused on pressuring large companies to change their practices and enlisted them as allies in pushing for strong environmental protections. Examples include Greenpeace campaigns that convinced Apple, Inc. and similar companies to shift to 100% clean energy and lobby utilities and regulators to make that possible, as well as work to protect both the Indonesian rainforest and the Bering Sea Canyons. Radford argues that the combination of creating industry champions and \"outside pressure\" focused on the government are the keys to passing new laws to protect the environment. However, Radford has also been a vocal leader calling for the United States to pass campaign finance reform and respect all Americans' voting rights to shift power in politics from corporations towards people and fulfill \"the promise of American democracy.\" Radford is considered by many to be a modern-day transcendentalist, in that he is very focused on nature and the environment, and he is an advocate of democracy.\n\nRadford received his B.A. from Washington University in St. Louis in 1998.\n\nRadford began his environmental activism as a high school student at Oak Park and River Forest High School in Oak Park, a Chicago suburb, volunteering for an environmental justice campaign to stop the building of trash incinerators in the West Side of Chicago near his family's Oak Park home.\n\nHis first job as a grassroots organizer came as a canvasser for Illinois PIRG. While studying political science and business at Washington University in St. Louis, he directed campaign and canvass offices during summers for the Fund for Public Interest Research for clients including the Human Rights Campaign, PIRGIM, and Ohio PIRG and worked part-time during school for the Sierra Club.\n\nAfter graduating college in 1998, Radford became a lead organizer at Green Corps, the field school for environmental organizing.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001 Radford was field director for Ozone Action, an organization dedicated to working on the atmospheric threats of global warming and ozone depletion. As field director, Radford planned and executed a number of grassroots campaigns, including a campaign during the 2000 presidential primaries, which was the initial impetus for Senator John McCain sponsoring the Climate Stewardship Act.\n\nRadford also managed the grassroots mobilization for the Global Warming Divestiture Campaign, which resulted in Ford, General Motors, Texaco, and other companies ending their funding the Global Climate Coalition, which spread misinformation about global warming. According to the \"New York Times\", the result of the campaign was \"the latest sign of divisions within heavy industry over how to respond to global warming.\"\n\nIn 2001, Radford founded Power Shift, a non-governmental organization dedicated to driving clean energy market breakthroughs and building the grassroots base to stop global warming.\n\nAs executive director of Power Shift, Radford worked closely with the cities of San Diego, Chula Vista, and Berkeley, California, as well as nine other municipalities, to secure investments for installation of solar energy systems and implementation of energy efficiency measures in municipal buildings. Radford also helped to convince Citigroup to adopt innovative new means of financing clean energy infrastructure for wind and solar installations that made them affordable to average Americans.\n\nIn 2009, at the age of 33, Radford was selected as the youngest ever executive director of Greenpeace. Radford's tenure at Greenpeace USA is best known for convincing over 100 corporations to change their environmental practices; exposing the anti-environmental influence of the Koch Brothers, making them a household name; increasing the organization's net income by 80%; launching the organization's grassroots organizing and significantly growing the canvass programs; and serving as a founder of the Democracy Initiative, a national coalition of major unions, environmental groups, civil rights and government reform organizations working for universal voter registration, to get money out of politics, and to reform Senate rules. In September 2013, Radford announced that he would step down on April 30, 2014, once he had completed five years of service as executive director.\n\nNew York Times reporter Andrew Revkin referred to a Greenpeace campaign during Radford's tenure as \"Activism at Its Best.\"\n\nBen Jealous, former president and chief executive officer of the NAACP as well as co-founder of the Democracy Initiative with Radford, described Radford at the helm of Greenpeace as \"a modern movement building giant. He has built powerful diverse coalitions to bolster the fights for the environment and voting rights. In the process he has shown himself to be unmatched in mobilizing everyday people to fund their movements directly.\" Environmental leader Bill McKibben stated: \"During Radford's tenure, Greenpeace has been helping the whole environmental movement shift back towards its roots: local, connected, tough.\"\n\nBefore becoming executive director of Greenpeace USA, Radford served as the director of the organization's Grassroots Program. In that capacity, he directed and significantly grew the organization's street canvass and launched and directed the door-to-door canvasses, online-to-offline organizing team, social media team, the Greenpeace Student Network, and the Greenpeace Semester. Under Radford, the street and door-to-door canvassing programs grew to include nearly 400 canvassers in almost 20 cities across the country and was responsible for doubling the organization's budget.\n\nRadford managed the grassroots efforts of a national divestment/disinvestment campaign, which forced Ford, General Motors, Texaco, and other companies to stop funding the Global Climate Coalition, which spread misinformation about global warming. Soon thereafter, the GCC ended operations. Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist Ross Gelbspan called the industry defections a \"Technical Knockout\" of the Global Climate Coalition.\n\nIn 2001, while running Power Shift, Radford launched a campaign to push Citibank to offer and promote Energy Efficient Mortgages (EEMs). Citi was \"missing the opportunity to help stop global warming by phasing out fossil fuel investments and promoting clean energy now,\" Radford said. \"The irony is that if Citi financed solar for people's homes, solar energy could be made immediately affordable for millions of Americans today.\" In 2004, Citigroup agreed to offer and promote EEMs for residential wind, energy efficiency, and solar installations that would make clean energy affordable for millions of Americans.\n\nRadford oversaw the grassroots mobilization efforts on the Kleercut Campaign in the United States and, later, the entire U.S. component of the global campaign when he became Greenpeace's executive director, targeting Kimberly-Clark for sourcing 22% of its paper pulp from Canadian boreal forests containing 200-year-old trees. The campaign included intervening in Kleenex commercial shoots, convincing twenty-two universities and colleges to take action such as cancelling contracts, recruiting 500 companies to boycott Kimberly-Clark, over 1,000 protests of the company, and more. The result: On August 5, 2009, Kimberly-Clark announced that it would source 40% of its paper fiber from recycled content or other sustainable sources – a 71% increase from 2007 levels. The demand created by Kimberly-Clark for sustainably logged fiber was greater than the supply, enabling the company to convince logging companies to change their practices.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2013, Radford managed Greenpeace US team that persuaded major U.S. companies to cancel their contracts with Asia Pulp and Paper (APP) – the world's third largest paper company – to push APP to stop destroying ancient forests. Greenpeace and its allies succeeded in convincing more than 100 corporate customers of APP to sever their ties with the company, including Mattel, Hasbro, Lego, Kmart, IGA, Kroger, Food Lion, \"National Geographic\", and Xerox. In total, the campaign against APP cut nearly 80% of APP's U.S. market. On February 5, 2013, Asia Pulp and Paper announced a deforestation policy protecting Indonesian rainforests. Referring to the victory, \"New York Times\" reporter Andrew Revkin heralded the campaign with a piece titled: \"Activism at Its Best: Greenpeace's Push to Stop the Pulping of Rainforests\".\n\nOn April 21, 2011, Greenpeace released a report highlighting data centers, which consumed up to 2% of all global electricity and this amount was projected to increase. Radford stated \"we are concerned that this new explosion in electricity use could lock us into old, polluting energy sources instead of the clean energy available today.\" Business Insider reported that after Greenpeace USA campaigns, \"tech giants like Apple, Google, Facebook, and Salesforce have promised to power their data centers with renewable energy, a pledge that led Duke Energy, the nation's largest power utility and one of the most flagrant emitters of CO2, to begin providing clean energy to win their business.\"\n\nIn 2014, deforestation in Indonesia, which accounts for .1% of the world's surface, caused 4% of global warming pollution. One of the major drivers of deforestation was clearing the forest to grow palm oil plantations. Under Radford, the Greenpeace USA team persuaded Procter & Gamble, Colgate Palmolive, Mondelez, and other major companies to demand sustainably grown palm oil.\n\nUnder Radford, Greenpeace ran a campaign targeting supermarket chains – which sell 50% of all seafood in the U.S. – to convince them to stop selling threatened fish, adopt sustainable seafood policies, and lobby for policies such as marine reserves to protect the oceans. Some retailers simply moved from being scored in a report; others like Costco and Trader Joe's required public campaigns to change them. The result: major seafood retailers such as Whole Foods, Safeway Inc., Wegmans, Target Corporation, Harris Teeter, Meijer, and Kroger have implemented sustainable seafood purchasing policies; Trader Joe's, Aldi, Costco, Target Corporation, and A&P have dramatically cut the threatened fish that they sell; Whole Foods, Safeway Inc., Trader Joe's, Walmart, and Hy-Vee introduced sustainably caught canned tuna; and Wegmans, Whole Foods, Safeway Inc., Target, and Trader Joe's have lobbied for strong ocean policies, such as protecting the Ross Sea and Bering Sea Canyons as marine reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56798722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56798722", "title": "Philomène Belliveau", "text": "Philomène Belliveau\n\nPhilomène Belliveau (1854 – 1940) was a Canadian artist of Acadian descent.\n\nThe daughter of Modeste Cormier and Joseph Belliveau, she was born in Memramcook and was educated at the convent of the Sisters of Sacré Cœur (known as Reed's Castle) in Saint John. In 1889, she travelled to Boston, where she took courses in painting and drawing. After she returned to New Brunswick, her portraits in pastel became very popular. The Acadian museum at the Université de Moncton has four of these portraits in their collection.\n\nIn 1904, she married judge Alphonse Pierre Garon. The couple settled in Shediac, later moving to Rimouski.\n\nShe died in Rimouski at the age of 85.\n"}
{"id": "24507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24507", "title": "Pierre Trudeau", "text": "Pierre Trudeau\n\nJoseph Philippe Pierre Yves Elliott Trudeau (; ; October 18, 1919 – September 28, 2000), often referred to by the initials PET, was a Canadian statesman who served as the 15th Prime Minister of Canada (1968–1979 and 1980–1984). He was the third longest-serving Prime Minister in Canadian history (behind William Lyon Mackenzie King and John A. Macdonald), having served for 15 years, 164 days.\n\nTrudeau rose to prominence as a lawyer, intellectual, and activist in Quebec politics. In the 1960s he entered federal politics by joining the Liberal Party of Canada. He was appointed as Lester B. Pearson's Parliamentary Secretary and later became his Minister of Justice. Trudeau became a media sensation, inspiring \"Trudeaumania\", and took charge of the Liberals in 1968. From the late 1960s until the mid-1980s, his personality dominated the political scene to an extent never before seen in Canadian political life. Despite his personal motto, \"Reason before passion\", his personality and political career aroused polarizing reactions throughout Canada.\n\nAdmirers praise what they consider to be the force of Trudeau's intellect and his political acumen, maintaining national unity over the Quebec sovereignty movement, suppressing a Quebec terrorist crisis, fostering a pan-Canadian identity, and in achieving sweeping institutional reform, including the implementation of official bilingualism, patriation of the Constitution, and the establishment of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Critics accuse him of arrogance, of economic mismanagement, and of unduly centralizing Canadian decision-making to the detriment of the culture of Quebec and the economy of the Prairies. He retired from politics in 1984, and John Turner succeeded him.\n\nHis eldest son, Justin Trudeau, became the 23rd and current Prime Minister as a result of the 2015 federal election and is the first prime minister of Canada to be a descendant of a former prime minister.\n\nThe Trudeau family can be traced to Marcillac-Lanville in France in the 16th century and to a Robert Truteau (1544–1589). In 1659 the first Trudeau to arrive in Canada was Étienne Trudeau or Truteau (1641–1712), a carpenter and home builder from La Rochelle.\n\nPierre Trudeau was born at home at 5779 Durocher Avenue, Outremont, Montreal, on October 18, 1919, to Charles-Émile \"Charley\" Trudeau, a French-Canadian businessman and lawyer, and Grace Elliott, who was of mixed Scottish and French-Canadian descent. He had an older sister named Suzette and a younger brother named Charles Jr.; he remained close to both siblings for his entire life. The family had become quite wealthy by the time Trudeau was in his teens, as his father sold his prosperous gas station business to Imperial Oil. Trudeau attended the prestigious Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf (a private French Jesuit school), where he supported Quebec nationalism. Trudeau's father died when Pierre was 15 years old. This death hit him and the family very hard emotionally. Trudeau remained very close to his mother for the rest of her life.\n\nAccording to long-time friend and colleague Marc Lalonde, the clerically influenced dictatorships of António de Oliveira Salazar in Portugal (the Estado Novo), Francisco Franco in Spain (the Spanish State), and Marshal Philippe Pétain in Vichy France were seen as political role models by many youngsters educated at elite Jesuit schools in Quebec. Lalonde asserts that Trudeau's later intellectual development as an \"intellectual rebel, anti-establishment fighter on behalf of unions and promoter of religious freedom\" came from his experiences after leaving Quebec to study in the United States, France and England, and to travel to dozens of countries. His international experiences allowed him to break from Jesuit influence and study French progressive Catholic philosophers such as Jacques Maritain and Emmanuel Mounier as well as John Locke and David Hume.\n\nTrudeau earned his law degree at the Université de Montréal in 1943. During his studies, he was conscripted into the Canadian Army as part of the National Resources Mobilization Act. When conscripted, he decided to join the Canadian Officers' Training Corps, and he then served with the other conscripts in Canada, since they were not assigned to overseas military service until after the Conscription Crisis of 1944 after the Invasion of Normandy that June. Before this, all Canadians serving overseas were volunteers, and not conscripts.\n\nTrudeau said he was willing to fight during World War II, but he believed that to do so would be to turn his back on the population of Quebec that he believed had been betrayed by the government of William Lyon Mackenzie King. Trudeau reflected on his opposition to conscription and his doubts about the war in his \"Memoirs\" (1993): \"So there was a war? Tough ... if you were a French Canadian in Montreal in the early 1940s, you did not automatically believe that this was a just war ... we tended to think of this war as a settling of scores among the superpowers.\"\n\nIn an Outremont by-election in 1942 he campaigned for the anticonscription candidate Jean Drapeau (later the Mayor of Montreal). After the war Trudeau continued his studies, first taking a master's degree in political economy at Harvard University's Graduate School of Public Administration (now the John F. Kennedy School of Government). He then studied in Paris, France in 1947 at the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris. Finally, he enrolled for a doctorate at the London School of Economics, but did not finish his dissertation.\n\nTrudeau was interested in Marxist ideas in the 1940s and his Harvard dissertation was on the topic of Communism and Christianity. Thanks to the great intellectual migration away from Europe's fascism, Harvard had become a major intellectual centre in which he profoundly changed. Despite this, Trudeau found himself an outsider – a French Catholic living for the first time outside of Quebec in the predominantly Protestant American Harvard University. This isolation deepened finally into despair, and led to Trudeau's decision to continue his Harvard studies abroad.\n\nIn 1947 Trudeau travelled to Paris to continue his dissertation work. Over a five-week period he attended many lectures and became a follower of personalism after being influenced most notably by Emmanuel Mounier. He also was influenced by Nikolai Berdyaev, particularly his book \"Slavery and Freedom\". Max and Monique Nemni argue that Berdyaev's book influenced Trudeau's rejection of nationalism and separatism. The Harvard dissertation remained unfinished when Trudeau entered a doctoral program to study under the socialist economist Harold Laski at the London School of Economics. This cemented Trudeau's belief that Keynesian economics and social science were essential to the creation of the \"good life\" in democratic society.\n\nFrom the late 1940s through the mid-1960s, Trudeau was primarily based in Montreal and was seen by many as an intellectual. In 1949 he was an active supporter of workers in the Asbestos Strike. In 1956 he edited an important book on the subject, \"La grève de l'amiante\", which argued that the strike was a seminal event in Quebec's history, marking the beginning of resistance to the conservative, Francophone clerical establishment and Anglophone business class that had long ruled the province. Throughout the 1950s, Trudeau, as the co-founder and editor of \"Cité Libre\", a dissident journal that helped provide the intellectual basis for the Quiet Revolution, was a leading figure in the opposition to the repressive rule of Premier of Quebec Maurice Duplessis.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1951 Trudeau worked briefly in Ottawa, in the Privy Council Office of the Liberal Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent as an economic policy advisor. He wrote in his memoirs that he found this period very useful later on, when he entered politics, and that senior civil servant Norman Robertson tried unsuccessfully to persuade him to stay on.\n\nHis progressive values and his close ties with Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) intellectuals (including F. R. Scott, Eugene Forsey, Michael Kelway Oliver and Charles Taylor) led to his support of and membership in that federal democratic socialist party throughout the 1950s. Despite these connections, when Trudeau entered federal politics in the 1960s he decided to join the Liberal Party of Canada rather than the CCF's successor, the New Democratic Party (NDP). Trudeau felt the federal NDP could not achieve power, expressed doubts about the feasibility of the centralizing policies of the party, and felt that the party leadership tended toward a \"deux nations\" approach he could not support.\n\nIn his memoirs, published in 1993, Trudeau wrote that during the 1950s he wanted to teach at the Université de Montréal, but was blacklisted three times from doing so by Premier Maurice Duplessis. He was offered a position at Queen's University teaching political science by James Corry, who later became principal of Queen's, but turned it down because he preferred to teach in Quebec. During the 1950s he was blacklisted by the United States and prevented from entering that country because of a visit to a conference in Moscow, and because he subscribed to a number of left-wing publications. Trudeau later appealed the ban and it was rescinded.\n\nAn associate professor of law at the Université de Montréal from 1961 to 1965, Trudeau's views evolved towards a liberal position in favour of individual rights counter to the state and made him an opponent of Quebec nationalism. He admired the labour unions, which were tied to the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (CCF), and tried to infuse his Liberal party with some of their reformist zeal. By the late 1950s Trudeau began to reject social democratic and labour parties, arguing that they should put their narrow goals aside and join forces with Liberals to fight for democracy first. In economic theory he was influenced by professors Joseph Schumpeter and John Kenneth Galbraith while he was at Harvard. Trudeau criticized the Liberal Party of Lester Pearson when it supported arming Bomarc missiles in Canada with nuclear warheads. Nevertheless, he was persuaded to join the party in 1965, together with his friends Gérard Pelletier and Jean Marchand. These \"three wise men\" ran successfully for the Liberals in the 1965 election. Trudeau himself was elected in the safe Liberal riding of Mount Royal, in western Montreal. He would hold this seat until his retirement from politics in 1984, winning each election with large majorities.\n\nUpon arrival in Ottawa, Trudeau was appointed as Prime Minister Lester Pearson's parliamentary secretary, and spent much of the next year travelling abroad, representing Canada at international meetings and bodies, including the United Nations. In 1967 he was appointed to Pearson's cabinet as Minister of Justice.\n\nAs Minister of Justice, Trudeau was responsible for introducing the landmark Criminal Law Amendment Act, an omnibus bill whose provisions included, among other things, the decriminalization of homosexual acts between consenting adults, the legalization of contraception, abortion and lotteries, new gun ownership restrictions as well as the authorization of breathalyzer tests on suspected drunk drivers. Trudeau famously defended the segment of the bill decriminalizing homosexual acts by telling reporters that \"there's no place for the state in the bedrooms of the nation\", adding that \"what's done in private between adults doesn't concern the Criminal Code\". Trudeau paraphrased the term from Martin O'Malley's editorial piece in \"The Globe and Mail\" on December 12, 1967. Trudeau also liberalized divorce laws, and clashed with Quebec Premier Daniel Johnson, Sr. during constitutional negotiations.\nAt the end of Canada's centennial year in 1967, Prime Minister Pearson announced his intention to step down, and Trudeau entered the race for the Liberal leadership. His energetic campaign attracted massive media attention and mobilized many young people, who saw Trudeau as a symbol of generational change. Going into the leadership convention, Trudeau was the front-runner and a clear favourite with the Canadian public. However, many Liberals still had reservations given that he joined the Liberal Party in 1965 and that his views, particularly those on divorce, abortion, and homosexuality, were seen as radical and opposed by a substantial segment of the party. During the convention, prominent Cabinet Minister Judy LaMarsh was caught on television profanely stating that Trudeau wasn't a Liberal.\n\nNevertheless, at the April 1968 Liberal leadership convention, Trudeau was elected as the leader on the fourth ballot, with the support of 51% of the delegates. He defeated several prominent and long-serving Liberals including Paul Martin Sr., Robert Winters and Paul Hellyer. As the new leader of the governing Liberals, Trudeau was sworn in as Prime Minister two weeks later on April 20.\n\nTrudeau soon called an election, for June 25. His election campaign benefited from an unprecedented wave of personal popularity called \"Trudeaumania\", which saw Trudeau mobbed by throngs of youths. Trudeau's main national opponents were PC leader Robert Stanfield and NDP leader Tommy Douglas, both popular figures who had been Premiers, respectively, of Nova Scotia and Saskatchewan. As a candidate Trudeau espoused participatory democracy as a means of making Canada a \"Just Society\". He defended vigorously the newly implemented universal health care and regional development programmes, as well as the recent reforms found in the Omnibus bill.\n\nOn the eve of the election, during the annual Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day parade in Montreal, rioting Quebec sovereignists threw rocks and bottles at the grandstand where Trudeau was seated, chanting \"Trudeau au poteau!\" (Trudeau – to the stake!). Rejecting the pleas of his aides that he take cover, Trudeau stayed in his seat, facing the rioters, without any sign of fear. The image of the defiant Prime Minister impressed the public, and he handily won the election the next day.\n\nTrudeau's first government implemented many procedural reforms to make Parliament and the Liberal caucus meetings run more efficiently, significantly expanded the size and role of the Prime Minister's office, and substantially expanded the welfare state, with the establishment of new programmes.\n\nTrudeau's first major legislative push was implementing the majority of recommendations of Pearson's Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism via the Official Languages Act, which made French and English the co-equal official languages of the federal government. More controversial than the declaration (which was backed by the NDP and, with some opposition in caucus, the PCs) was the implementation of the Act's principles: between 1966 and 1976, the francophone proportion of the civil service and military doubled, causing alarm in some sections of anglophone Canada that they were being disadvantaged.\n\nTrudeau's Cabinet fulfilled Part IV of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism's report by announcing a \"Multiculturalism Policy\" on October 8, 1971. This statement recognized that while Canada was a country of two official languages, it recognized a plurality of cultures – \"a multicultural policy within a bilingual framework\". This annoyed public opinion in Quebec, which believed that it challenged Quebec's claim of Canada as a country of two nations.\n\nThe first major policy failure of Trudeau's first term was the 1969 White Paper on Indians, which was promoted by new Department of Indian and Northern Affairs minister Jean Chrétien as part of Trudeau's push for classical liberal participatory democracy. The statement proposed the general assimilation of First Nations into the Canadian body politic through the elimination of the Indian Act and Indian status, the parcelling of reserve land to private owners, and the elimination of the Department of Indian and Northern Affairs. The White Paper prompted the first major national mobilization of Indian and Aboriginal activists against the federal government's proposal, leading to Trudeau setting aside the legislation.\n\nTrudeau's first serious test came during the October Crisis of 1970, when a Marxist group, the \"Front de libération du Québec\" (FLQ) kidnapped British Trade Consul James Cross at his residence on October 5. Five days later Quebec Labour Minister Pierre Laporte was also kidnapped. Trudeau, with the acquiescence of Premier of Quebec Robert Bourassa, responded by invoking the War Measures Act which gave the government sweeping powers of arrest and detention without trial. Trudeau presented a determined public stance during the crisis, answering the question of how far he would go to stop the violence by saying \"Just watch me\". Laporte was found dead on October 17 in the trunk of a car. The cause of his death is still debated. Five of the FLQ members were flown to Cuba in 1970 as part of a deal in exchange for James Cross' life, although they eventually returned to Canada years later, where they served time in prison.\n\nAlthough this response is still controversial and was opposed at the time as excessive by parliamentarians like Tommy Douglas and David Lewis, it was met with only limited objections from the public.\n\nAfter consultations with the provincial premiers, Trudeau agreed to attend a conference called by British Columbia Premier W. A. C. Bennett to attempt to finally patriate the Canadian constitution. Negotiations with the provinces by Minister of Justice John Turner created a draft agreement, known as the Victoria Charter, that entrenched a charter of rights, bilingualism, and a guarantee of a veto of constitutional amendments for Ontario and Quebec, as well as regional vetoes for Western Canada and Atlantic Canada, within the new constitution. The agreement was acceptable to the nine predominantly-English speaking provinces, while Quebec's Premier Robert Bourassa requested two weeks to consult with his cabinet. After a strong backlash of popular opinion against the agreement in Quebec, Bourassa stated Quebec would not accept it.\n\nIn foreign affairs, Trudeau kept Canada firmly in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), but often pursued an independent path in international relations. He established Canadian diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, before the United States did, and went on an official visit to Beijing. He was known as a friend of Fidel Castro, the leader of Cuba.\n\nTrudeau was the first world leader to meet John Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono on their \"tour for world peace\". Lennon said, after talking with Trudeau for 50 minutes, that Trudeau was \"a beautiful person\" and that \"if all politicians were like Pierre Trudeau, there would be world peace\".\n\nIn the federal election of 1972, the Liberals won a minority government, with the New Democratic Party led by David Lewis holding the balance of power.\n\nRequiring NDP support to continue, the government would move to the political left, including the creation of Petro-Canada.\n\nIn May 1974 the House of Commons passed a motion of no confidence in the Trudeau government, defeating its budget bill after Trudeau intentionally antagonized Stanfield and Lewis. The election of 1974 focused mainly on the current economic recession. Stanfield proposed the immediate introduction of wage and price controls to help end the increasing inflation Canada was currently facing. Trudeau mocked the proposal, saying to a newspaper reporter that it was the equivalent of a magician saying \"Zap! You're frozen\", and instead promoted a variety of small tax cuts to curb inflation. A campaign tour featuring Trudeau's wife and infant sons was popular, and NDP supporters scared of wage controls moved toward the Liberals.\n\nThe Liberals were re-elected with a majority government with 141 of the 264 seats, prompting Stanfield's retirement. The Liberals won no seats in Alberta, though, where Peter Lougheed was a vociferous opponent of Trudeau's 1974 budget.\n\nWhile popular with the electorate, Trudeau's promised minor reforms had little effect on the growing rate of inflation, and he struggled with conflicting advice on the crisis. In September 1975 the popular Finance Minister John Turner resigned over a perceived lack of support in countervailing measures. In October 1975, in an embarrassing about-face, Trudeau and new Finance Minister Donald Macdonald introduced wage and price controls by passing the Anti-Inflation Act. The breadth of the legislation, which touched on many powers traditionally considered the purview of the provinces, prompted a Supreme Court reference that only upheld the legislation as an emergency requiring Federal intervention under the British North America Act. During the annual 1975 Christmas interview with CTV, Trudeau discussed the economy, citing market failures and stating that more state intervention would be necessary. However, the academic wording and hypothetical solutions posed during the complex discussion led much of the public to believe he had declared capitalism itself a failure, creating a lasting distrust among increasingly neoliberal business leaders.\n\nTrudeau continued his attempts at increasing Canada's international profile, including joining the G7 group of major economic powers in 1976 at the behest of U.S. President Gerald Ford. On July 14, 1976, after long and emotional debate, Bill C-84 was passed by the House of Commons by a vote of 130 to 124, abolishing the death penalty completely and instituting a life sentence without parole for 25 years for first-degree murder.\n\nTrudeau faced increasing challenges in Quebec, starting with bitter relations with Bourassa and his Liberal government in Quebec. After a rise in the polls after the rejection of the Victoria Charter, the Quebec Liberals had taken a more confrontational approach with the Federal government on the constitution, French language laws, and the language of air traffic control in Quebec. Trudeau responded with increasing anger at what he saw as nationalist provocations against the Federal government's bilingualism and constitutional initiatives, at times expressing his personal contempt for Bourassa.\n\nPartially in an attempt to shore up his support, Bourassa called a surprise election in 1976 that resulted in René Lévesque and the Parti Québécois (PQ) winning a majority government. The PQ had chiefly campaigned on a \"good government\" platform, but promised a referendum on independence to be held within their first mandate. Trudeau and Lévesque had been personal rivals, with Trudeau's intellectualism contrasting with Lévesque's more working-class image. While Trudeau claimed to welcome the \"clarity\" provided by the PQ victory, the unexpected rise of the sovereignist movement became, in his view, his biggest challenge.\n\nAs the PQ began to take power, Trudeau faced the prolonged failure of his marriage, which was covered in lurid detail on a day-by-day basis by the English language press. Trudeau's reserve was seen as dignified by contemporaries and his poll numbers actually rose during the height of coverage, but aides felt the personal tensions left him uncharacteristically emotional and prone to outbursts.\n\nIn 1976, Trudeau, succumbing to pressure from the Communist Chinese, issued an order barring Taiwan from participating as China in the 1976 Montreal Olympics, although technically it was a matter for the IOC. His action strained relations with the United States – from President Ford, future President Carter and the press – and subjected Canada to international condemnation and shame.\n\nAs the 1970s wore on, growing public exhaustion towards Trudeau's personality and the country's constitutional debates caused his poll numbers to fall rapidly in the late 1970s. At the 1978 G7 summit, he discussed strategies for the upcoming election with West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who advised him to announce several spending cuts to quell criticism of the large deficits his government was running.\n\nAfter a series of defeats in by-elections in 1978, Trudeau waited as long as he could to call a statutory general election in 1979. He finally did so in the 1979, only two months from the five-year limit provided under the British North America Act.\n\nIn the election of 1979, Trudeau and the Liberals faced declining poll numbers and the Joe Clark–led Progressive Conservatives focusing on \"pocketbook\" issues. Trudeau and his advisors, to contrast with the mild-mannered Clark, based their campaign on Trudeau's decisive personality and his grasp of the Constitution file, despite the general public's apparent wariness of both. The traditional Liberal rally at Maple Leaf Gardens saw Trudeau stressing the importance of major constitutional reform to general ennui, and his campaign \"photo-ops\" were typically surrounded by picket lines and protesters. Though polls portended disaster, Clark's struggles justifying his party's populist platform and a strong Trudeau performance in the election debate helped bring the Liberals to the point of contention.\n\nThough winning the popular vote by four points, the Liberal vote was concentrated in Quebec and faltered in industrial Ontario, allowing the PCs to win the seat-count handily and form a minority government. Trudeau soon announced his intention to resign as Liberal Party leader and favoured Donald Macdonald to be his successor.\n\nHowever, before a leadership convention could be held, with Trudeau's blessing and Allan MacEachen's maneuvering in the house, the Liberals supported an NDP subamendment to Clark's budget stating that the House had no confidence in the budget. In Canada, as in most other countries with a Westminster system, budget votes are indirectly considered to be votes of confidence in the government, and their failure automatically brings down the government. Liberal and NDP votes and Social Credit abstentions led to the subamendment passing 139-133, thereby toppling Clark's government and triggering a new election for a House less than a year old. The Liberal caucus, along with friends and advisers persuaded Trudeau to stay on as leader and fight the election, with Trudeau's main impetus being the upcoming referendum on Quebec sovereignty.\n\nTrudeau and the Liberals engaged in a new strategy for the February 1980 election: facetiously called the \"low bridge\", it involved dramatically underplaying Trudeau's role and avoiding media appearances, to the point of refusing a televised debate. On election day Ontario returned to the Liberal fold, and Trudeau and the Liberals defeated Clark and won a majority government.\n\nThe Liberal victory in 1980 highlighted a sharp geographical divide in the country: the party had won no seats west of Manitoba. Trudeau, in an attempt to represent Western interests, offered to form a coalition government with Ed Broadbent's NDP, which had won 22 seats in the west, but was rebuffed by Broadbent out of fear the party would have no influence in a majority government. Trudeau then took the unusual step of appointing Liberal Senators from Western provinces to Cabinet, in the 22nd Canadian Ministry.\n\nThe first challenge Trudeau faced upon re-election was the referendum on Quebec sovereignty, called by the Parti Québécois government of René Lévesque, the date of which (May 20, 1980) was announced when Parliament re-opened after the election. Trudeau immediately initiated federal involvement in the referendum, reversing the Clark government's policy of leaving the issue to the Quebec Liberals and Claude Ryan. He appointed Jean Chrétien as the nominal spokesman for the federal government, helping to push the \"Non\" cause to working-class voters who tuned out the intellectual Ryan and Trudeau. Unlike Ryan and the Liberals, he refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of the referendum question, and noted that the \"association\" required consent from the other provinces.\n\nAs the campaign began to pick up steam, and the Quebec Liberals struggled in the legislative debate, Trudeau and Lévesque became heavily involved, with Lévesque mocking Trudeau's English middle name and aristocratic upbringing. Trudeau dramatically intervened in the best-received speech of his career a week before the referendum, extolling the virtues of federalism, mocking the unclear nature of the referendum, and dramatically pointing out that his name was neither French nor English, but a \"Canadian\" name. Trudeau noted that English Canada would have to listen to the various issues prompted by the referendum, and he promised a new constitutional agreement should it decide to stay in Canada. The \"No\" side (that is, \"No\" to sovereignty) ended up receiving nearly 60% of the vote. Trudeau stated that night that he \"had never been so proud to be a Quebecer and a Canadian\".\n\nTrudeau had attempted patriation of the constitution earlier in his tenure, most notably with the Victoria Charter, but ran into the combined force of provincial premiers on the issues of an amending formula, a court-enforced Charter of Rights, and a further devolution of powers to the provinces. After the victory in the Quebec referendum, Chrétien was immediately tasked with creating a constitutional settlement.\n\nAfter chairing a series of increasingly acrimonious conferences with first ministers on the issue, Trudeau announced the intention of the federal government to proceed with a request to the British parliament to patriate the constitution, with additions to be approved by a referendum without input from provincial governments. Trudeau was backed by the NDP, Ontario Premier Bill Davis, and New Brunswick Premier Richard Hatfield and was opposed by the remaining premiers and PC leader Joe Clark. After numerous provincial governments challenged the legality of the decision using their reference power, conflicting decisions prompted a Supreme Court decision that stated unilateral patriation was legal, but was in contravention of a constitutional convention that the provinces be consulted and have general agreement to the changes.\n\nAfter the court decision, which prompted some reservations in the British parliament of accepting a unilateral request, Trudeau agreed to meet with the premiers one more time before proceeding. At the meeting, Trudeau reached an agreement with nine of the premiers on patriating the constitution and implementing the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, with the caveat that provincial legislatures would have the ability to use a notwithstanding clause to protect some laws from judicial oversight. The notable exception was Lévesque, who, Trudeau believed, would never have signed an agreement. The objection of the Quebec government to the new constitution became a source of continued acrimony between the federal and Quebec governments, and would forever stain Trudeau's reputation amongst nationalists in the province.\n\nThe Canada Act, which included the Constitution Act, 1982 and the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, was proclaimed by Queen Elizabeth II, as Queen of Canada, on April 17, 1982.\n\nA series of difficult budgets by long-time loyalist Allan MacEachen in the early 1980s did not improve Trudeau's economic reputation. However, after tough bargaining on both sides, Trudeau did reach a revenue-sharing agreement on energy with Alberta Premier Peter Lougheed in 1982. Amongst the policies introduced by Trudeau's last term in office were an expansion in government support for Canada’s poorest citizens and the introduction of the National Energy Program (NEP), which created a firestorm of protest in the Western provinces and increased what many termed \"Western alienation\".\n\nTrudeau's approval ratings slipped after the bounce from the 1982 patriation. Meanwhile, the Progressive Conservatives raced out to a substantial lead in opinion polls under new leader Brian Mulroney. By the beginning of 1984, it was obvious that the Liberals would be heavily defeated if Trudeau remained in office. On February 29, after what he described as a \"long walk in the snow\", Trudeau announced he would not lead the Liberals into the next election. He formally retired on June 30, ending his 15-year tenure as Prime Minister. Trudeau was succeeded as Liberal leader and Prime Minister by former cabinet minister John Turner, who had been out of politics for almost a decade.\n\nBefore handing power to Turner, Trudeau advised Governor General Jeanne Sauvé to appoint over 200 Liberals to patronage positions. He and Turner then crafted a legal agreement calling for Turner to advise an additional 70 patronage appointments. The sheer volume of appointments, combined with questions about the appointees' qualifications, led to condemnation from across the political spectrum. However, an apparent rebound in the polls prompted Turner to call an election for September 1984, almost a year before it was due. Turner's appointment deal with Trudeau came back to haunt the Liberals at the English-language debate, when Mulroney demanded that Turner apologize for not advising that the appointments be canceled—advice that Sauvé would have been required to follow by convention. Turner claimed that \"I had no option\" but to let the appointments stand, prompting Mulroney to tell him, \"You had an option, sir--to say 'no'--and you chose to say 'yes' to the old attitudes and the old stories of the Liberal Party.\" The Liberals never recovered from this. Combined with anger in Quebec at being left out of patriation, the Liberals were heavily defeated at the 1984 election, losing 95 seats in what was then the worst defeat of a sitting government at the federal level.\n\nTrudeau joined the Montreal law firm Heenan Blaikie as counsel and settled in the historic Maison Cormier in Montreal following his retirement from politics. Though he rarely gave speeches or spoke to the press, his interventions into public debate had a significant impact when they occurred. Trudeau wrote and spoke out against both the Meech Lake Accord and Charlottetown Accord proposals to amend the Canadian constitution, arguing that they would weaken federalism and the Charter of Rights if implemented. His opposition to both Accords was considered one of the major factors leading to the defeat of the two proposals.\n\nHe also continued to speak against the Parti Québécois and the sovereignty movement with less effect.\n\nTrudeau also remained active in international affairs, visiting foreign leaders and participating in international associations such as the Club of Rome. He met with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and other leaders in 1985; shortly afterwards Gorbachev met President Ronald Reagan to discuss easing world tensions.\n\nHe published his memoirs in 1993; the book sold hundreds of thousands of copies in several editions, and became one of the most successful Canadian books ever published.\n\nIn the Old age of his life, he was afflicted with Parkinson's disease and prostate cancer, and became less active, although he continued to work at his law practice until a few months before his death at the age of 80. He was devastated by the death of his youngest son, Michel Trudeau, who was killed in an avalanche on November 13, 1998.\n\nPierre Elliott Trudeau died on September 28, 2000, and was buried in the Trudeau family crypt, St-Rémi-de-Napierville Cemetery, Saint-Rémi, Quebec. His body lay in state in the Hall of Honour in Parliament Hill's Centre Block to allow Canadians to pay their last respects. Several world politicians, including former US President Jimmy Carter and Fidel Castro, attended the funeral. His son Justin delivered the eulogy during the state funeral which led to widespread speculation in the media that a career in politics was in his future. Eventually, Justin did enter politics, was elected to the House of Commons in late 2008, became the leader of the federal Liberal Party in April 2013, and was elected Prime Minister of Canada on October 19, 2015—the first time a father and his son have become prime ministers in Canada.\n\nTrudeau was a Roman Catholic and attended church throughout his life. While mostly private about his beliefs, he made it clear that he was a believer, stating, in an interview with the \"United Church Observer\" in 1971: \"I believe in life after death, I believe in God and I'm a Christian.\" Trudeau maintained, however, that he preferred to impose constraints on himself rather than have them imposed from the outside. In this sense, he believed he was more like a Protestant than a Catholic of the era in which he was schooled.\n\nMichael W. Higgins, a former President of St. Thomas University, has researched Trudeau's spirituality and finds that it incorporated elements of three Catholic traditions. The first of these was the Jesuits who provided his education up to the college level. Trudeau frequently displayed the logic and love of argument consistent with that tradition. A second great spiritual influence in Trudeau's life was Dominican. According to Michel Gorges, Rector of the Dominican University College, Trudeau \"considered himself a lay Dominican\". He studied philosophy under Dominican Father Louis-Marie Régis and remained close to him throughout his life, regarding Régis as \"spiritual director and friend\". Another skein in Trudeau's spirituality was a contemplative aspect acquired from his association with the Benedictine tradition. According to Higgins, Trudeau was convinced of the centrality of meditation in a life fully lived. He took retreats at Saint-Benoît-du-Lac, Quebec and regularly attended Hours and the Eucharist at Montreal's Benedictine community.\n\nAlthough never publicly theological in the way of Margaret Thatcher or Tony Blair, nor evangelical, in the way of Jimmy Carter or George W. Bush, Trudeau's spirituality, according to Michael W. Higgins, \"suffused, anchored, and directed his inner life. In no small part, it defined him.\"\n\nDescribed as a \"swinging young bachelor\" when he became prime minister in 1968, Trudeau also dated Hollywood star Barbra Streisand in 1969 and 1970. They had a serious romantic relationship, although (contrary to one published report) there was no express marriage proposal.\n\nOn March 4, 1971, while Prime Minister, he quietly married Margaret Sinclair at St. Stephen's Roman Catholic parish church in North Vancouver.\n\nContrary to his publicized exploits, Trudeau was an intense intellectual with robust work habits and little time for family or fun. As a result, Margaret felt trapped and bored in the marriage, feelings that were exacerbated by her retroactively diagnosed bipolar depression.\n\nThe couple had three sons: the first two, 23rd and current Prime Minister Justin (born 1971), and Alexandre (born 1973), were both born on Christmas Day two years apart. Their third son, Michel (1975–1998), died in an avalanche while skiing in Kokanee Glacier Provincial Park. They separated in 1977, and were finally divorced in 1984.\n\nWhen his divorce was finalized in 1984, Trudeau became the first Canadian Prime Minister to become a single parent as the result of divorce. In 1984, Trudeau was romantically involved with Margot Kidder (a Canadian actress famous for her role as Lois Lane in \"Superman: The Movie\" and its sequels) in the last months of his prime-ministership and after leaving office.\n\nIn 1991, Trudeau became a father again, with Deborah Margaret Ryland Coyne, to his only daughter, Sarah.\n\nCoyne later stood for the leadership of the federal Liberal Party in 2013, the same election that Trudeau's son Justin won, at which she came in fifth.\n\nTrudeau began practising the Japanese martial art judo sometime in the mid-1950s when he was in his mid-thirties, and by the end of the decade he was ranked \"ikkyū\" (brown belt). Later, when he travelled to Japan as Prime Minister, he was promoted to \"shodan\" (first-degree black belt) by the Kodokan, and then promoted to \"nidan\" (second-degree black belt) by Masao Takahashi in Ottawa before leaving office. Trudeau began the night of his famous \"walk in the snow\" before announcing his retirement in 1984 by going to judo with his sons.\n\nTrudeau remains well regarded by many Canadians. However, the passage of time has only slightly softened the strong antipathy he inspired among his opponents. Trudeau's strong personality, contempt for his opponents and distaste for compromise on many issues have made him, as historian Michael Bliss puts it, \"one of the most admired and most disliked of all Canadian prime ministers\". \"He haunts us still\", biographers Christina McCall and Stephen Clarkson wrote in 1990. Trudeau's electoral successes were matched in the 20th century only by those of Mackenzie King.\n\nTrudeau's most enduring legacy may lie in his contribution to Canadian nationalism, and of pride in Canada in and for itself rather than as a derivative of the British Commonwealth. His role in this effort, and his related battles with Quebec on behalf of Canadian unity, cemented his political position when in office despite the controversies he faced—and remain the most remembered aspect of his tenure afterwards.\n\nSome consider Trudeau's economic policies to have been a weak point. Inflation and unemployment marred much of his tenure as prime minister. When Trudeau took office in 1968 Canada had a debt of $18 billion (24% of GDP) which was largely left over from World War II, when he left office in 1984, that debt stood at $200 billion (46% of GDP), an increase of 83% in real terms. However, these trends were present in most western countries at the time, including the United States.\n\nMany politicians still use the term \"taking a walk in the snow\", the line Trudeau used to describe how he arrived at the decision to leave office in 1984. Other popular Trudeauisms frequently used are \"just watch me\", the \"Trudeau Salute\", and \"Fuddle Duddle\".\n\nMaclean's 1997 and 2011 scholarly surveys ranked him twice as the fifth best Canadian prime minister.\n\nOne of Trudeau's most enduring legacies is the 1982 patriation of the Canadian constitution, including a domestic amending formula and the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. It is seen as advancing civil rights and liberties and has become a cornerstone of Canadian values for most Canadians. It also represented the final step in Trudeau's liberal vision of a fully independent Canada based on fundamental human rights and the protection of individual freedoms as well as those of linguistic and cultural minorities. Court challenges based on the Charter of Rights have been used to advance the cause of women's equality, re-establish French school boards in provinces such as Alberta and Saskatchewan, and to mandate the adoption of same-sex marriage all across Canada. Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982, has clarified issues of aboriginal and equality rights, including establishing the previously denied aboriginal rights of Métis. Section 15, dealing with equality rights, has been used to remedy societal discrimination against minority groups. The coupling of the direct and indirect influences of the charter has meant that it has grown to influence every aspect of Canadian life and the override (notwithstanding clause) of the charter has been infrequently used.\n\nCanadian conservatives claim the constitution has resulted in too much judicial activism on the part of the courts in Canada. It is also heavily criticized by Quebec nationalists, who resent that the 1982 amendments to the constitution were never ratified by any Quebec government and the constitution does not recognize a constitutional veto for Quebec.\n\nBilingualism is one of Trudeau's most lasting accomplishments, having been fully integrated into the Federal government's services, documents, and broadcasting (not, however, in provincial governments, except for Ontario, New Brunswick, and Manitoba). While official bilingualism has settled some of the grievances Francophones had towards the federal government, many Francophones had hoped that Canadians would be able to function in the official language of their choice no matter where in the country they were.\n\nHowever, Trudeau's ambitions in this arena have been overstated: Trudeau once said that he regretted the use of the term \"bilingualism\", because it appeared to demand that all Canadians speak two languages. In fact, Trudeau's vision was to see Canada as a bilingual confederation in which \"all\" cultures would have a place. In this way, his conception broadened beyond simply the relationship of Quebec to Canada.\n\nOn October 8, 1971, Pierre Trudeau introduced the Multiculturalism Policy in the House of Commons. It was the first of its kind in the world, and was then emulated in several provinces, such as Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and other countries most notably Australia, which has had a similar history and immigration pattern. Beyond the specifics of the policy itself, this action signalled an openness to the world and coincided with a more open immigration policy that had been brought in by Trudeau's predecessor Lester B. Pearson.\n\nIn the last years of his tenure he ensured both the National Gallery of Canada and the Canadian Museum of Civilization had proper homes in the national capital region. The Trudeau government also implemented programs which mandated Canadian content in film, and broadcasting, and gave substantial subsidies to develop the Canadian media and cultural industries. Though the policies remain controversial, Canadian media industries have become stronger since Trudeau's arrival.\n\nTrudeau's posthumous reputation in the Western Provinces is notably less favourable than in the rest of English-speaking Canada, and he is sometimes regarded as the \"father of Western alienation\". To many westerners, Trudeau's policies seemed to favour other parts of the country, especially Ontario and Quebec, at their expense. Outstanding among such policies was the National Energy Program, which was seen as unfairly depriving western provinces of the full economic benefit from their oil and gas resources, in order to pay for nationwide social programs, and make regional transfer payments to poorer parts of the country. Sentiments of this kind were especially strong in oil-rich Alberta where unemployment rose from 4% to 10% following passage of the NEP. Estimates have placed Alberta's losses between $50 billion and $100 billion because of the NEP.\n\nMore particularly, two incidents involving Trudeau are remembered as having fostered Western alienation, and as emblematic of it. During a visit to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan on July 17, 1969, Trudeau met with a group of farmers who were protesting the Canadian Wheat Board. The widely remembered perception is that Trudeau dismissed the protesters' concerns with \"Why should \"I\" sell your wheat?\" – however, he had asked the question rhetorically and then proceeded to answer it himself. Years later, on a train trip through Salmon Arm, British Columbia, he \"gave the finger\" to a group of protesters through the carriage window – less widely remembered is that the protesters were shouting anti-French slogans at the train.\n\nTrudeau's legacy in Quebec is mixed. Many credit his actions during the October Crisis as crucial in terminating the Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) as a force in Quebec, and ensuring that the campaign for Quebec separatism took a democratic and peaceful route. However, his imposition of the War Measures Act—which received majority support at the time—is remembered by some in Quebec and elsewhere as an attack on democracy. Trudeau is also credited by many for the defeat of the 1980 Quebec referendum.\n\nAt the federal level, Trudeau faced almost no strong political opposition in Quebec during his time as Prime Minister. For instance, his Liberal party captured 74 out of 75 Quebec seats in the 1980 federal election. Provincially, though, Québécois twice elected the pro-sovereignty Parti Québécois. Moreover, there were not at that time any pro-sovereignty federal parties such as the Bloc Québécois. Since the signing of the Constitutional Act of Canada in 1982 and until 2015, the Liberal Party of Canada had not succeeded in winning a majority of seats in Quebec. He was disliked by the Quebecois nationalists.\n\nTrudeau was a strong advocate for a federalist model of government in Canada, developing and promoting his ideas in response and contrast to strengthening Quebec nationalist movements, for instance the social and political atmosphere created during Maurice Duplessis' time in power.\n\nFederalism in this context can be defined as \"a particular way of sharing political power among different peoples within a state...Those who believe in federalism hold that different peoples do not need states of their own in order to enjoy self-determination. Peoples ... may agree to share a single state while retaining substantial degrees of self-government over matters essential to their identity as peoples\".\n\nAs a social democrat, Trudeau sought to combine and harmonize his theories on social democracy with those of federalism so that both could find effective expression in Canada. He noted the ostensible conflict between socialism, with its usually strong centralist government model, and federalism, which expounded a division and cooperation of power by both federal and provincial levels of government. In particular, Trudeau stated the following about socialists:\n\nTrudeau pointed out that in sociological terms, Canada is inherently a federalist society, forming unique regional identities and priorities, and therefore a federalist model of spending and jurisdictional powers is most appropriate. He argues, \"in the age of the mass society, it is no small advantage to foster the creation of quasi-sovereign communities at the provincial level, where power is that much less remote from the people.\"\n\nTrudeau's idealistic plans for a cooperative Canadian federalist state were resisted and hindered as a result of his narrowness on ideas of identity and socio-cultural pluralism: \"While the idea of a 'nation' in the sociological sense is acknowledged by Trudeau, he considers the allegiance which it generates—emotive and particularistic—to be contrary to the idea of cohesion between humans, and as such creating fertile ground for the internal fragmentation of states and a permanent state of conflict\".\n\nThis position garnered significant criticism for Trudeau, in particular from Quebec and First Nations peoples on the basis that his theories denied their rights to nationhood. First Nations communities raised particular concerns with the proposed 1969 White Paper, developed under Trudeau by Jean Chrétien.\n\nTrudeau chose the following jurists to be appointed as justices of the Supreme Court of Canada by the Governor General:\n\n\nAccording to Canadian protocol, as a former Prime Minister, he is styled \"The Right Honourable\" for life.\n<br>\n\n<br>\n\nThe following honours were bestowed upon him by the Governor General, or by Queen Elizabeth II herself:\n\nOther honours include:\n\nPierre Trudeau received several Honorary Degrees in recognition of His political career, These Include\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTrudeau was appointed a Companion of the Order of Canada on June 24, 1985. His citation reads:\nLawyer, professor, author and defender of human rights this statesman served as Prime Minister of Canada for fifteen years. Lending substance to the phrase \"the style is the man,\" he has imparted, both in his and on the world stage, his quintessentially personal philosophy of modern politics.\nThrough hours of archival footage and interviews with Trudeau himself, the documentary \"Memoirs\" details the story of a man who used intelligence and charisma to bring together a country that was very nearly torn apart. Trudeau's life is depicted in two CBC Television mini-series. The first one, \"Trudeau\" (with Colm Feore in the title role), depicts his years as Prime Minister. \"Trudeau II: Maverick in the Making\" with Stéphane Demers as the young Pierre, and Tobie Pelletier as him in later years) portrays his earlier life.\n\nThe 1999 documentary film \"\" explores the impact of Trudeau's vision of Canadian bilingualism through interviews with eight young Canadians. He was the co-subject along with René Lévesque in the Donald Brittain-directed documentary mini-series \"The Champions\".\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nNews media\n\nOther online sources\n\nEditorial cartoons & humour\n\nArchival videos of Trudeau\n"}
{"id": "49124186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49124186", "title": "Preciado Bakish", "text": "Preciado Bakish\n\nPreciado Bakish (Hebrew: פרסיאדו בקיש ) was a rabbi and a Bulgar member of the Zionist Movement.\n\nBorn in 1828 at Sofia (Bulgaria) to a Sephardic Jewish family. He died in Jerusalem at the age of 82 (1910). He was named Chief Rabbi of Bulgaria (1885–1889; 1895–1898 or 1900) and Av Beit Din (Chairman of the Rabbinical Court) He participated in the First Zionist Congress held on 29, 30 and 31 August 1897 to Basel (Switzerland) along with three other delegates from Bulgaria (Zvi Belkovsky, Karl Herbst, Yehoshua Kalef) and some 200 other members from around the world. These activities have created difficulties and Rabbi Preciado Bakish was not maintained in his functions as Chief Rabbi of Bulgaria after 1900. A photograph of Rabbi Bakish was published on a genealogy website\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988474", "title": "Pyotr Sviatopolk-Mirsky", "text": "Pyotr Sviatopolk-Mirsky\n\nPrince Pyotr Dmitrievich Svyatopolk-Mirsky () (, Vladikavkaz – , Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire) was a Russian noble, politician and police official.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky was born in Vladikavkaz into the prominent Svyatopolk-Mirsky family. He was the only son of the general Dmitry Ivanovich Svyatopolk-Mirsky and Princess Sofia Orbeliani. Pyotr was educated at Page Corps, graduating in 1874 with first-class honours, and was appointed Page of the Chamber. In 1875, he became a cornet at \"Her Empress Leib-Guards Hussars\". He was father to literary historian D. S. Mirsky.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky took part in the Russo-Turkish War, 1877–78 and was decorated for valor in the Battle of Kars. Then he studied at the General Staff Academy and graduated in 1881. \n\nIn 1884, he was made the acting commander of the staff of 31st Infantry division, and in 1887, he was appointed to commander of staff of 3d Grenadier division.\n\nIn 1895, he was appointed the governor of Penza, and in 1897 the governor of Yekaterinoslav.\n\nIn 1900, Dmitry Sipyagin appointed Svyatopolk-Mirsky assistant Minister of the Interior and commander of the Imperial Corps of Gendarmes. After Sipyagin's assassination in 1902, Svyatopolk-Mirsky resigned as assistant minister but was persuaded to accept the position of Governor-General of Vilna (modern-day Lithuania and Belarus). As the Governor-General, Svyatopolk-Mirsky was credited with successful liberal reforms, defusing national tensions in the provence by allowing more rights to the national minorities, stopping pogroms against the Jews.\n\nIn July 1904, he succeeded to the position of Minister of the Interior after Plehve's assassination. His appointment was seen as a victory of Liberals over the Conservatives and in the Court term as a victory of the party of widow Empress Maria Fyodorovna (who supported the liberal reforms and was a patroness of Pyotr's sister Olga) over the party of Empress consort Alexandra Fyodorovna.\n\nConservative Ministers Witte and Sipiagin credited Svyatopolk-Mirsky with being an honorable, intelligent man of the highest moral principles, which is notable due to his attempts at liberal reform in Imperial Russia while minister. These reforms began with permitting members of the local Zemstvos to gather to discuss broader policy issues and coordination of Zemstvo programs, something that had not been permitted in Russia regularly. The remaining reforms were embodied in a decree that called for the inclusion of elected members to the State Council, removal of the restrictions on the Old Believers, measures to strengthen legality, extend freedom of the press and religion, broaden the authority of local self-government, eliminate unnecessary restrictions on non-Russians, and do away with exceptional laws in general. Svyatopolk-Mirsky not only allowed the congress, but also participated in its work and personally delivered its decision to Tsar Nicholas II along with his own plan for constitutional reforms. \n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky's plan included transferring more power to the State Council of Imperial Russia. The plan was much less radical than the reforms implemented by the October Manifesto 1905, but in December 1904 it was considered ultra-radical and was dismissed.\n\nThe massacre of a peaceful demonstration in Saint Petersburg, known as Bloody Sunday, occurred on . According to Svyatopolk-Mirsky, he never had authorised the shooting of the demonstrators, but still fulfilled his final duty to the tsar, becoming the scapegoat for the massacre. According to Svyatopolk-Mirsky's opponents, he not only did authorise the shooting, but also actively encouraged the demonstration in order to push his own political agenda.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky was replaced as minister of the Interior by Alexander Bulygin in February 1905 and retired from government service. As a retired Minister of Interior, he was expected to be appointed a member of the State Council of Imperial Russia, but it was not the case. He retired from the political life until his death on 16 May 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "40253191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40253191", "title": "Rachel Bloom", "text": "Rachel Bloom\n\nRachel Leah Bloom (born April 3, 1987) is an American actress, singer, songwriter, and comedian. She wrote and plays the lead role of Rebecca Bunch in The CW comedy-drama series \"Crazy Ex-Girlfriend\", for which she won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy and a Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Actress in a Comedy Series. She also created the Hugo Award-nominated music video \"Fuck Me, Ray Bradbury\".\n\nBloom was born in Los Angeles and grew up in Manhattan Beach, the daughter of Shelli (née Rosenberg) and Alan Bloom. Her mother is a musician while her father is a healthcare lawyer. Her family is Jewish.\n\nBloom attended Manhattan Beach public schools including Mira Costa High School, where she was involved in the school's drama program. In 2009, Bloom graduated from the New York University's Tisch School of the Arts with a BFA in Drama. While at NYU, Bloom was the head writer and director of the school's premier sketch comedy group, Hammerkatz. Post-college, Bloom performed at Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in New York and Los Angeles. She was once roommates with comedian Ilana Glazer after college in Brooklyn.\n\nIn April 2010, Bloom wrote and sang the song, \"Fuck Me, Ray Bradbury\", which gained a cult following when it was released on Ray Bradbury's 90th birthday in 2010. The song was inspired by her favorite Ray Bradbury book, \"The Martian Chronicles\". There was a photo of Bradbury posted online that purported to show him watching the video. She worked as an intern for head writer Seth Meyers at \"Saturday Night Live\". In 2012, she unsuccessfully auditioned for the show, submitting an audition video that included a bit as Katharine Hepburn doing the voice for Bugs Bunny in \"Space Jam\".\n\nOn May 13, 2013, Bloom released her first album of musical comedy, \"Please Love Me\", which included the songs \"Fuck Me, Ray Bradbury\" and \"You Can Touch My Boobies\". On November 19, 2013, she released her second album \"Suck It, Christmas\", which featured a comedic look at Chanukah. It included the hit song \"Chanukah Honey\". On December 17, 2013, Bloom was the voice of Princess Peach in the song \"Luigi's Ballad\", on Starbomb's self-titled debut album. Bloom co-wrote \"Super Friend\" performed by Melissa Benoist and Grant Gustin. The song was featured on the musical crossover episode of \"Supergirl\" and \"The Flash\" and the soundtrack released from the episode.\n\nBloom has worked as a television writer on \"Allen Gregory\" and \"Robot Chicken\".\n\nIn April 2017, Bloom appeared on \"The Sexual Spectrum\" episode of \"Bill Nye Saves the World\", performing the song \"My Sex Junk\" concerning the gender and sexual spectra. The performance and episode were controversial, garnering a mixed response with backlash from conservative groups and on social media, where Bloom was threatened. The episode went on to receive an Emmy nomination.\n\nBloom co-starred in the film \"Most Likely to Murder\", opposite Adam Pally and Vincent Kartheiser. The film was directed by Dan Gregor, Bloom's husband. It premiered at the SXSW Film Festival in March 2018, and was released on Digital and On Demand in May 2018.\n\nOn May 7, 2015, Bloom filmed a half-hour pilot for Showtime with co-executive producer Aline Brosh McKenna (\"The Devil Wears Prada\") and directed by Marc Webb, \"Crazy Ex-Girlfriend\". It was eventually picked up by The CW for the fall 2015–2016 season. The show became an hour long series with more network-friendly content when it transitioned from cable to network TV and features musical numbers. The show premiered on October 12, 2015.\n\nOn January 10, 2016, she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Television Series, Musical or Comedy. The following week, Bloom won the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Actress in a Comedy Series.\n\nBloom married her boyfriend of six years, Dan Gregor, in early 2015 with her cousin, a rabbi, performing the ceremony.\n\nBloom has a history of mental illness, having been diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and OCD, about which she has candidly spoken. As such, she is a mental health advocate, often discussing issues of mental illness in society such as stigma, discrimination, and poor media portrayals. Bloom's character in \"Crazy Ex-Girlfriend\" suffers from similar illnesses, and the show addresses these issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "28144360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28144360", "title": "Redford White", "text": "Redford White\n\nCipriano Cermeño II (December 5, 1955 – July 25, 2010), known by his screen name Redford White was a Filipino actor and comedian.\n\nWhite first came to prominence in the late 1970s for his supporting role in the sitcom \"Iskul Bukol\". He had a string of hits as the leading man in several 1980s comedies such as \"Bino and Klayd\", \"Darakula\" and \"Hee Man: Master of None\", his first major role. For several years, he starred in the TV sitcom \"Buddy en Sol\" with Eric Quizon.\n\nIn the latter part of his career, White appeared in several films for Star Cinema such as \"Tar-San\", \"Ala eh... Con Bisoy! Hale-hale-hoy!: Laging panalo ang mga unggoy\", and \"Haba-baba-doo! Puti-puti-poo!\" paired with various comedians including Babalu, Bonel Balingit, Carding Castro and Leo Martinez. His last film and television appearances were in \"Iskul Bukol 20 Years After\" and \"Palos\" on ABS-CBN, respectively, in 2008.\n\nWhite was reportedly born with albinism, which gave rise to his screen name. He was married to Elena Cermeño and they had a daughter, Jeruie. His closest friends were his fellow \"Buddy En Sol\" co-star Eric Quizon, Vic Sotto who worked with him in the sitcom \"Daddy Di Do Du\", singer-songwriter Jim Paredes and comedians Gabe Mercado and Leo Martinez.\n\nWhite died at the age of 54 from lung cancer and a brain tumor on July 25, 2010 at 06:47 PST (GMT+8). He had reportedly experienced dizziness and difficulty walking, and loss of balance as early as July 2008, which the actor initially mistook for symptoms of vertigo. His physician advised magnetic resonance imaging, which White refused. He was later diagnosed with Stage 4 brain cancer in February 2010.\n\nHis wake took place at Santo Niño de Maligaya Shrine in Maligaya Park Subdivision, Novaliches, Quezon City, Metro Manila.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7952693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952693", "title": "Robert Boyer (artist)", "text": "Robert Boyer (artist)\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Boyer (July 20, 1948 – August 30, 2004) was a Canadian visual artist and university professor of aboriginal heritage. He was a Métis Cree artist known for his politically charged abstract paintings.\n\nBoyer grew up in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan and earned a BEd from the Regina Campus of the University of Saskatchewan in 1971. He joined the Saskatchewan arts community in 1973 and worked on community programming at the Norman MacKenzie Art Gallery in Regina until the mid-1970s. He was then a professor of Indian Fine Arts at the Saskatchewan Indian Federated College (\"SIFC\") (now First Nations University of Canada), a federated college of the University of Saskatchewan, Regina Campus, later the University of Regina, until 1997. During his time at the SIFC, Boyer acted as the Head of the Department of Indian Fine Arts.\n\nBoyer's early paintings use material such as acrylics, paper, and canvas. The earliest paintings are realistic, but he soon embarked on an effort to incorporate an abstract style in his work. One of the earliest results of this is \"Horses Can Fly, Too,\" a representation of a horse-figure streaking through the sky. Boyer is well known for his large-scale geometric paintings on felt blankets that he produced primarily in the late 1980s and early 1990s. This began after a trip to China and Japan. He said, \"There were paintings on silk or cloth and gradually this whole thing about art not having to be made on stretched canvas really began to get through to me.\" Boyer used oil paints applied thickly, using rough brush strokes in many of these works. The geometric designs on the blanket paintings come from the tradition motifs of Siouan and Cree groups in Western Canada. Boyer tended to use traditional colour combinations in early blanket paintings, but some later examples are painted in pastels.\n\nAt first Boyer painted about the wrong Europeans have done to Aboriginal peoples, but he later switched to things about the Aboriginal culture and the meaning of life. Boyer called all of this 'Blanket Statements'.\n\nMany of the pieces from the Boyer's 'Blanket Period' are in the permanent collections of major galleries such the National Gallery of Canada and the Norman MacKenzie Gallery. Paintings bear unique and enigmatic titles that came to Boyer at poignant moments such as after sweat lodge ceremonies.\n\nBoyer's influences from aboriginal art traditions are obvious, but he was also influenced by local Saskatchewan artists such as Ted Godwin and Art McKay of the \"Regina Five\", and to a lesser extent Joe Fafard. As a university professor and elder, Boyer mentored many young aboriginal and non-aboriginal artists. \n\nBoyer died in 2004 while powwow dancing.\n\nBoyer painted large murals in the First Nations Gallery of the Royal Saskatchewan Museum. A large mural forms part of the display of the winter camp in the \"Seasonal Round\" section of the Gallery.\n\nOne of Boyer's larger works is the Carousel of Life mural, painted on the exterior west wall of the building located at 2941-13th Avenue in the Cathedral district of Regina, which is adjacent to the 13th Avenue Canada Safeway grocery store. It depicts four horses framed by one of Boyer's blankets. It was commissioned by the Cathedral Area Community Association in 1996, as part of the annual arts festival.\n\nOn August 2, 2011, the City of Regina announced that Safeway had applied for zoning changes to allow it to expand its 13th Avenue store. The Information Sheet for the proposed re-zoning application states that \"... most of the flanking on the existing site will be lost to the grocery store expansion...\" The Information Sheet does not state if the Boyer mural will be preserved in some fashion, or if Canada Safeway will destroy the mural as part of the expansion of its store.\n\nThe issue of the mural attracted some attention in a column in the local newspaper, and in letters to the editor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55667664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55667664", "title": "Rosemary Brown Stanton", "text": "Rosemary Brown Stanton\n\nRosemary Ruth Ellman-Brown Stanton (3 February 1924 - 21 January 2017) worked in the decoding room at Bletchley Park in World War II, and led an \"extraordinary life\".\n\nStanton was born on 3 February 1924, in Radlett, a town between St. Albans and Borehamwood in Hertfordshire, the daughter of Reginald and Janet Brown (née Anderson).\n\nBrown first served in the British Navy in her younger years, and then later joined in working with the British codebreakers at Bletchley Park during the Second World War. She was based in Block D(6), the decoding room.\n\nRosemary Brown Stanton met her future husband, an American serviceman, Frank \"Fran\" H. Stanton (died 1989), whilst working at Bletchley Park, and they married in 1945. They had five children, and lived in Franklin, Tennessee, US.\n\nBrown Stanton died at the age of 92 on 21 January 2017. \n\nShe is survived by her sibling Michael Ellman-Brown, as well as by her children: Victoria, John, Robert, David and Rebecca, 26 grandchildren and great-grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "6964544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6964544", "title": "Rufus Hannah", "text": "Rufus Hannah\n\nRufus Hannah (November 27, 1954 – October 4, 2017), also known as Rufus the Stunt Bum, was an American advocate for homeless rights who became known for his role in the early \"Bumfights\" videos: in 2000, while himself a homeless alcoholic, he was paid $5 to be filmed running headfirst into a stack of milk crates. \n\nHannah was raised in Swainsboro, Georgia. He started drinking at 14, despite having a \"good family.\" He was a construction worker until the age of 27, when he joined the U.S. Army. He was soon discharged after injuring himself during basic training. After his injury, he started drinking heavily, leading to his homelessness and alcoholism. In the early 1990s, he moved to California, where he was approached by Ryan McPherson to produce \"Bumfights\".\n\nHe subsequently was filmed performing other \"stunts\" for the \"Bumfights\" videos, including riding a shopping cart down a flight of stairs, ramming his head into steel doors so hard that he suffered from epilepsy, and beating up Donald \"Donnie\" Brennan, another homeless man, so badly that Brennan's leg was broken in two places and required surgical intervention. Brennan, an army veteran, and Hannah (who was injured in basic training), were paid an average of $10 per stunt. Both men were also paid to get \"Bumfights\" tattoos: Hannah's tattoo was across his knuckles and Brennan's was on his forehead. \n\nIn 2002, Hannah and Brennan testified in the criminal trials of the producers of \"Bumfights\" on several charges, including the soliciting of felonies; the defendants were acquitted on the majority of charges and sentenced to community service for conspiring to stage an illegal fight (in 2005, they were sentenced to 6 months in prison for having failed to complete the community service).\n\nHannah and Brennan also filed a civil suit against the producers; the producers agreed to pay an unspecified amount in damages, and to no longer use Hannah and Brennan's images for promotional purposes.\n\nHannah remained sober from 2003 until his death. He worked as a property manager, and spent 40 hours a week performing such duties as painting apartments and constructing fences. He hoped to one day get the 'Bum Fights' tattoo removed from his knuckles. In 2010 he released a book co-written with Barry Soper entitled \"A Bum Deal: An Unlikely Journey from Hopeless to Humanitarian\" detailing his ordeal from becoming a homeless alcoholic, his time during the filming of \"Bumfights\", and his struggle to get sober.\n\nOn October 4, 2017, Hannah was killed when the car he was riding in as a passenger was hit by a truck.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019236", "title": "Scott Verplank", "text": "Scott Verplank\n\nScott Rachal Verplank (born July 9, 1964) is an American professional golfer, who has played on the PGA Tour and the PGA Tour Champions.\n\nBorn and raised in Dallas, Texas, Verplank was a leading member of the W.T. White High School golf team and a regular at Brookhaven Country Club in Dallas. He graduated from high school in 1982 and attended Oklahoma State University in Stillwater. At OSU, he was a member of the 1983 NCAA Championship team, finishing T3 alongside teammates Tommy Moore, Willie Wood, Andy Dillard, and Philip Walton. He went on later to win the 1984 U.S. Amateur at the Oak Tree Golf Club, and in 1986, win the NCAA individual title.\n\nPrior to his senior year at Oklahoma State, Veplank won the Western Open outside Chicago in August 1985; it was the first victory by an amateur on the PGA Tour in 29 years (Doug Sanders, 1956 Canadian Open). He defeated Jim Thorpe on the second extra hole of a playoff for the win at Butler National Golf Club in Oak Brook, Illinois.\n\nVerplank graduated and turned professional in 1986, using his two-year exemption on the PGA Tour; his first event as a pro was the U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills in June, his sixth tour event He earned five wins on the PGA Tour, and two Ryder Cup appearances, in 2002 and 2006. Verplank has type 1 diabetes and uses an insulin pump during play. He was awarded the 2002 Ben Hogan Award, given by the Golf Writers Association of America to an individual who has continued to be active in golf despite a physical handicap or serious illness. Verplank has been featured in the top 20 of the Official World Golf Rankings, reaching as high as eleventh in 2001.\n\nHe hit a hole-in-one in the Ryder Cup, on the 14th hole during a singles match against Pádraig Harrington in 2006. The shot did not impact the overall result, however, as Europe had already won the trophy. Nonetheless, he was the first American player to card an ace during the Ryder Cup; his overall record in the competition is 4 wins and 1 loss.\n\nVerplank's most recent win was the 2007 EDS Byron Nelson Championship, in which he defeated Luke Donald by one stroke. As a Dallas native, Verplank called the EDS Byron Nelson Championship \"a fifth major,\" and also mentioned that \"Byron was with me today\" (the 2007 tournament was the first held after Nelson's death). His best finish in a major championship was a tie for fourth at the PGA Championship in 2011.\n\nIn December 2010, Verplank was named a 2011 winner of the NCAA Silver Anniversary Award, given annually to six former NCAA student-athletes for distinguished career accomplishment on the 25th anniversary of their college graduation.\n\nVerplank competed in the 2011 Arnold Palmer Invitational finishing T38 and then the following week at the Shell Houston Open in which Verplank finished T2 behind Phil Mickelson. Verplank had held a joint 54-hole lead with Mickelson and even held the lead on his own at a number of stages during the final round, however his lack of competitive golf proved costly throughout the final few holes and he was unable to close out the victory. This was his best finish on tour in 18 months since finishing T2 at the Deutsche Bank Championship in 2009. Verplank has amassed over $27 million in career earnings.\n\nVerplank played the 2013 season on a Major Medical Extension after hip and wrist injuries in 2012. He started the 2014 season in a similar fashion, but was not able to satisfy the medical exemption and used his career money list exemption for the remainder of the season. Verplank turned 50 in July 2014 and made his Champions Tour debut at the at Oak Tree National, near his residence in Edmond, Oklahoma.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Verplank won the Western Open as an amateur.\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (2–4)\n\nLA = Low amateur<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCancelled due to September 11, 2001 attacks<br>\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3181434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181434", "title": "The Kennedys (band)", "text": "The Kennedys (band)\n\nThe Kennedys are an American folk-rock band, consisting of husband and wife Pete and Maura Kennedy. They are recognized for their harmonies and instrumental prowess, blending elements of country music, bluegrass, Western swing and janglepop.\n\nThey met in Austin, Texas in 1992, when Pete Kennedy was playing in Nanci Griffith's band. For their first date, they each drove 500 miles to meet at Buddy Holly's grave in Lubbock, Texas.\n\nSoon, Maura Kennedy (née Maura Boudreau) joined Griffith's band as a harmony singer, and the Maura and Pete began their career as a duo when they opened for Griffth during her Ireland tour.\n\nPete is from the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C. Maura grew up in Syracuse, New York. They lived for many years living in the East Village in New York City, and in 2006 they joined other folk musicians living in Northampton, Massachusetts. They then returned to the East Village in 2008.\n\nTheir first album, \"River of Fallen Stars\", was released under the name \"Pete and Maura Kennedy\"; they released all subsequent albums as \"The Kennedys\".\n\nTheir 1998 album \"Angel Fire\" featured many songs with literary references, such as \"A Letter To Emily\" and \"Just Like Henry David\".\n\nWhen performing live, Pete plays the acoustic guitar, electric sitar, bass and ukulele, while Maura plays acoustic and electric guitars and uke.\n\nThey have performed in clubs and theatres throughout the United States, on a cruise, and at Bill Clinton's first and second inaugurations.\n\nIn late 2006, Pete and Maura joined with Chris and Meredith Thompson to form The Strangelings, a folk-rock band prominently featuring Pete's electric sitar. Their first performance was on January 12, 2007. The music includes songs by both the Kennedys and the Thompsons in addition to traditional songs and covers. The current full lineup of The Strangelings includes Pete, Maura, Chris Thompson, Eric Lee on fiddle, Cheryl Prashker on percussion, and Ken Anderson and Rebecca Hall, also known as Hungrytown.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8233758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8233758", "title": "Theodor Herzl", "text": "Theodor Herzl\n\nTheodor Herzl (; ; \"Te'odor Hertsel\"; ; Hebrew name given at his brit milah Binyamin Ze'ev (), also known in Hebrew as , \"Chozeh HaMedinah\", lit. \"Visionary of the State\"; 2 May 1860 – 3 July 1904) was an Austro-Hungarian journalist, playwright, political activist, and writer who was the father of modern political Zionism. Herzl formed the Zionist Organization and promoted Jewish immigration to Palestine in an effort to form a Jewish state. Though he died before its establishment, he is known as the father of the State of Israel.\n\nWhile Herzl is specifically mentioned in the Israeli Declaration of Independence and is officially referred to as \"the spiritual father of the Jewish State\", i.e. the visionary who gave a concrete, practicable platform and framework to political Zionism, he was not the first Zionist theoretician or activist; scholars, many of them religious such as rabbis Yehuda Bibas, Zvi Hirsch Kalischer and Judah Alkalai, promoted a range of proto-Zionist ideas before him.\n\nTheodor Herzl was born in the \"Tabakgasse\" (\"Dohány utca\" in Hungarian), a street in the Jewish quarter of Pest (now eastern part of Budapest), Kingdom of Hungary (now Hungary), to a secular Jewish family. His father's family were originally from Zimony (today Zemun, Serbia). He was the second child of Jeanette and Jakob Herzl, who were German-speaking, assimilated Jews. It is believed Herzl was of both Ashkenazi and Sephardic lineage predominately through his paternal line and to a lesser extent through the maternal line. He also claimed to be a direct descendent of the famous Greek Kabbalist Joseph Taitazak.\n\nJakob Herzl (1836–1902), Herzl's father, was a highly successful businessman. Herzl had one sister, Pauline, a year older than he was, who died suddenly on 7 February 1878, of typhus. Theodor lived with his family in a house next to the Dohány Street Synagogue (formerly known as Tabakgasse Synagogue) located in Belváros, the inner city of the historical old town of Pest, in the eastern section of Budapest.\n\nAs a youth, Herzl aspired to follow in the footsteps of Ferdinand de Lesseps, builder of the Suez Canal, but did not succeed in the sciences and instead developed a growing enthusiasm for poetry and the humanities. This passion later developed into a successful career in journalism and a less-celebrated pursuit of playwrighting. According to Amos Elon, as a young man, Herzl was an ardent Germanophile who saw the Germans as the best \"Kulturvolk\" (cultured people) in Central Europe and embraced the German ideal of \"Bildung\", whereby reading great works of literature by Goethe and Shakespeare could allow one to appreciate the beautiful things in life, and thus become a morally better person (the \"Bildung\" theory tended to equate beauty with goodness). Through \"Bildung\", Herzl believed that Hungarian Jews such as himself could shake off their \"shameful Jewish characteristics\" caused by long centuries of impoverishment and oppression, and become civilized Central Europeans, a true \"Kulturvolk\" along the German lines.\n\nIn 1878, after the death of his sister, Pauline, the family moved to Vienna, Austria-Hungary, and lived in the 9th district, Alsergrund. At the University of Vienna, Herzl studied law. As a young law student, Herzl became a member of the German nationalist \"Burschenschaft\" (fraternity) Albia, which had the motto \"Ehre, Freiheit, Vaterland\" (\"Honor, Freedom, Fatherland\"). He later resigned in protest at the organisation's antisemitism.\n\nAfter a brief legal career in the University of Vienna and Salzburg, he devoted himself to journalism and literature, working as a journalist for a Viennese newspaper and a correspondent for \"Neue Freie Presse\", in Paris, occasionally making special trips to London and Istanbul. He later became literary editor of \"Neue Freie Presse\", and wrote several comedies and dramas for the Viennese stage. His early work did not focus on Jewish life. It was of the feuilleton order, descriptive rather than political.\n\nAs the Paris correspondent for \"Neue Freie Presse\", Herzl followed the Dreyfus affair, a political scandal that divided the Third French Republic from 1894 until its resolution in 1906. It was a notorious antisemitic incident in France in which a Jewish French army captain was falsely convicted of spying for Germany. Herzl was witness to mass rallies in Paris following the Dreyfus trial. There has been some controversy surrounding the impact that this event had on Herzl and his conversion to Zionism. Herzl himself stated that the Dreyfus case turned him into a Zionist and that he was particularly affected by chants of \"Death to the Jews!\" from the crowds. This had been the widely held belief for some time. However, some modern scholars now believe that due to little mention of the Dreyfus affair in Herzl's earlier accounts and a seemingly contrary reference he made in them to shouts of \"Death to the traitor!\" that he may have exaggerated the influence it had on him in order to create further support for his goals.\n\nJacques Kornberg claims that the Dreyfus influence was a myth that Herzl did not feel necessary to deflate and that he also believed that Dreyfus was guilty. Another modern claim is that, while upset by antisemitism evident in French society, Herzl, like most contemporary observers, initially believed in Dreyfus' guilt and only claimed to have been inspired by the affair years later when it had become an international cause célèbre and that, rather, it was the rise to power of the antisemitic demagogue Karl Lueger in Vienna in 1895 that seems to have had a greater effect on Herzl, before the pro-Dreyfus campaign had fully emerged. It was at this time that Herzl wrote his play \"The New Ghetto,\" which shows the ambivalence and lack of real security and equality of emancipated, well-to-do Jews in Vienna. The protagonist is an assimilated Jewish lawyer who tries unsuccessfully to break through the social ghetto enforced on Western Jews.\n\nAccording to Henry Wickham Steed, Herzl was initially \"fanatically devoted to the propagation of Jewish-German 'Liberal' assimilationist doctrine\". However, Herzl came to reject his early ideas regarding Jewish emancipation and assimilation and to believe that the Jews must remove themselves from Europe. Herzl grew to believe that antisemitism could not be defeated or cured, only avoided, and that the only way to avoid it was the establishment of a Jewish state. In June 1895, he wrote in his diary: \"In Paris, as I have said, I achieved a freer attitude toward anti-semitism ... Above all, I recognized the emptiness and futility of trying to 'combat' anti-semitism.\" Herzl's editors of Neue Freie Presse refused any publication of his Zionist political activities. A mental clash gripped Herzl, between the craving for literary success and a desire to act as a public figure. Around this time, Herzl started writing pamphlets about 'A Jewish State'. Herzl claimed that these pamphlets resulted in the establishment of the Zionist Movement, and they did play a large role in the movement's rise and success. His testimony before the British Royal Commission reflected his fundamental, romantic liberal view on life as the 'Problem of the Jews'.\n\nBeginning in late 1895, Herzl wrote \"Der Judenstaat\" (\"The State of the Jews\"), which was published February 1896 to immediate acclaim and controversy. The book argued that the Jewish people should leave Europe if they wished to, either for Argentina or, preferably, for Palestine, their historic homeland. The Jews possessed a nationality; all they were missing was a nation and a state of their own. Only through a Jewish state could they avoid antisemitism, express their culture freely and practice their religion without hindrance. Herzl’s ideas spread rapidly throughout the Jewish world and attracted international attention. Supporters of existing Zionist movements, such as the Hovevei Zion, immediately allied themselves with him, but establishment Jewry vilified him and considered his ideas as a threat to their attempts at integration and a rebellion against God.\n\nIn \"Der Judenstaat\" he writes: \"The Jewish question persists wherever Jews live in appreciable numbers. Wherever it does not exist, it is brought in together with Jewish immigrants. We are naturally drawn into those places where we are not persecuted, and our appearance there gives rise to persecution. This is the case, and will inevitably be so, everywhere, even in highly civilised countries—see, for instance, France—so long as the Jewish question is not solved on the political level.\"\n\nThe book concludes: \n\nHerzl began to energetically promote his ideas, continually attracting supporters, Jewish and non-Jewish. According to Norman Rose, Herzl \"mapped out for himself the role of martyr ... as the Parnell of the Jews\".\n\nOn 10 March 1896, Herzl was visited by Reverend William Hechler, the Anglican minister to the British Embassy in Vienna. Hechler had read Herzl's \"Der Judenstaat\", and the meeting became central to the eventual legitimization of Herzl and Zionism. Herzl later wrote in his diary, \"Next we came to the heart of the business. I said to him: (Theodor Herzl to Rev. William Hechler) I must put myself into direct and publicly known relations with a responsible or non responsible ruler – that is, with a minister of state or a prince. Then the Jews will believe in me and follow me. The most suitable personage would be the German Kaiser.\" Hechler arranged an extended audience with Frederick I, Grand Duke of Baden, in April 1896. The Grand Duke was the uncle of the German Emperor Wilhelm II. Through the efforts of Hechler and the Grand Duke, Herzl publicly met Wilhelm II in 1898. The meeting significantly advanced Herzl's and Zionism's legitimacy in Jewish and world opinion.\n\nIn May 1896, the English translation of \"Der Judenstaat\" appeared in London as \"The Jewish State\". Herzl had earlier confessed to his friend Max Bodenheimer that he \"wrote what I had to say without knowing my predecessors, and it can be assumed that I would not have written it [\"Der Judenstaat\"] had I been familiar with the literature\".\n\nIn Istanbul, Ottoman Empire, 15 June 1896, Herzl saw an opportunity. With the assistance of Count Filip Michał Newleński, a sympathetic Polish émigré with political contacts in the Ottoman Court, Herzl attempted to meet Sultan Abdulhamid II in order to present his solution of a Jewish State to the Sultan directly. He failed to obtain an audience but did succeed in visiting a number of highly placed individuals, including the Grand Vizier, who received him as a journalist representing the \"Neue Freie Presse\". Herzl presented his proposal to the Grand Vizier: the Jews would pay the Turkish foreign debt and attempt to help regulate Turkish finances if they were given Palestine as a Jewish homeland under Turkish rule. Prior to leaving Istanbul, 29 June 1896, Newleński obtained for Herzl a symbolic medal of honor. The medal, the \"Commander's Cross of the Order of the Medjidie\", was a public relations affirmation for Herzl and the Jewish world of the seriousness of the negotiations.\n\nFive years later, 17 May 1901, Herzl did meet with Sultan Abdulhamid II, but the Sultan refused Theodor Herzl's offer to consolidate the Ottoman debt in exchange for a charter allowing the Zionists access to Palestine.\n\nReturning from Istanbul, Herzl traveled to London to report back to the Maccabeans, a proto-Zionist group of established English Jews led by Colonel Albert Goldsmid. In November 1895 they received him with curiosity, indifference and coldness. Israel Zangwill bitterly opposed Herzl, but after Istanbul, Goldsmid agreed to support Herzl. In London's East End, a community of primarily Yiddish speaking recent Eastern European Jewish immigrants, Herzl addressed a mass rally of thousands on 12 July 1896 and was received with acclaim. They granted Herzl the mandate of leadership for Zionism. Within six months this mandate had been expanded throughout Zionist Jewry: the Zionist movement grew rapidly.\n\nIn 1897, at considerable personal expense, he founded the Zionist newspaper \"Die Welt\" in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, and planned the First Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland. He was elected president of the Congress (a position he held until his death in 1904), and in 1898 he began a series of diplomatic initiatives to build support for a Jewish country. He was received by Wilhelm II on several occasions, one of them in Jerusalem, and attended the Hague Peace Conference, enjoying a warm reception from many statesmen there.\n\nHis work on Autoemancipation was pre-figured by a similar conclusion drawn by Marx's friend Moses Hess, in \"Rome and Jerusalem\" (1862). Pinkser had never yet read it, but was aware of the distant and far off Hibbat Zion. Herzl's philosophical instruction highlighted the weaknesses and vulnerabilities. To Herzl each dictator or leader had a nationalistic identity, even down to the Irish from Wolfe Tone onwards. He was drawn to the mawkishness of Judaism rendered distinctively as German. But he remained convinced that Germany was the centre \"(Hauptsitz)\" of antisemitism rather than France. In a much quoted aside he noted \"If there is one thing I should like to be, it is a member of old Prussian nobility\". Herzl appealed to the nobility of Jewish England - the Rothschilds, Sir Samuel Montagu, later cabinet minister, to the Chief Rabbis of France and Vienna, the railroad magnate, Baron Hirsch.\n\nHe fared best with Israel Zangwill, and Max Nordau. They were both well-known writers or 'men of letters'—imagination that engenders understanding. Hirsch's correspondence led nowhere. Baron Albert Rothschild had little to do with the Jews. Herzl was disliked by the bankers \"(Finanzjuden)\" and detested them. Herzl was defiant of their social authority. He also shared Pinkser's pessimistic opinion that the Jews had no future in Europe; that they were too antisemitic to tolerate because each country in Europe had tried antisemitic assimilation. In Berlin they said \"Juden raus\" in a well worn phrase. Herzl therefore advocated a mass exodus from Europe to the \"Judenstaat\". Pinkser's manifesto was a cry for help; a warning to others \"Mahnruf\", a call for attention to their plight. Herzl's vision was less about mental states of Jewry, and more about delivering prescriptive answers about land. \"The idea that i have developed is a very old one; it is the restoration of the Jewish State\" was a follow-up of Pinkser's early weaker version \"Mahnruf an seine Stammesgenossen von einem nassichen Juden\".\n\nHerzl visited Jerusalem for the first time in October 1898. He deliberately coordinated his visit with that of Wilhelm II to secure what he thought had been prearranged with the aid of Rev. William Hechler, public world power recognition of himself and Zionism.\nHerzl and Wilhelm II first met publicly on 29 October, at Mikveh Israel, near present-day Holon, Israel. It was a brief but historic meeting. He had a second formal, public audience with the emperor at the latter's tent camp on Street of the Prophets in Jerusalem on 2 November 1898. The English Zionist Federation, the local branch of the World Zionist Organization was founded in 1899, that Herzl had established in Austria in 1897.\n\nIn 1902–03, Herzl was invited to give evidence before the British Royal Commission on Alien Immigration. His appearance brought him into close contact with members of the British government, particularly with Joseph Chamberlain, then secretary of state for the colonies, through whom he negotiated with the Egyptian government for a charter for the settlement of the Jews in Al 'Arish in the Sinai Peninsula, adjoining southern Palestine.\n\nIn 1903, Herzl attempted to obtain support for the Jewish homeland from Pope Pius X, an idea broached at 6th Zionist Congress. Palestine could offer a safe refuge for those fleeing persecution in Russia. Cardinal Rafael Merry del Val ordained that the Church's policy was explained non possumus on such matters, decreeing that as long as the Jews denied the divinity of Christ, the Catholics could not make a declaration in their favour. The pogroms included 47 Jews murdered at Kishinev, and hundreds more injured, their property looted and destroyed. The delegates to the Congress backed Herzl's line of argument. A vociferous minority of opposition came from those who thought adoption of a Ugandan Plan over Palestine was a sell-out. Still later the East African Scheme failed, dying with Herzl himself. It was taken off the agenda in 1905. Yet another nationalistic splinter group with Zionist aspirations, in England called the Jewish Territorial Association (JTO) was founded.\n\nAfter the failure of that scheme, which took him to Cairo, he received, through Leopold Greenberg, an offer (August 1903) from the British government to facilitate a large Jewish settlement, with autonomous government and under British suzerainty, in British East Africa. At the same time, the Zionist movement was threatened by the Russian government. Accordingly, Herzl visited St. Petersburg and was received by Sergei Witte, then finance minister, and Viacheslav Plehve, minister of the interior, the latter placing on record the attitude of his government toward the Zionist movement. On that occasion Herzl submitted proposals for the amelioration of the Jewish position in Russia. He published the Russian statement, and brought the British offer, commonly known as the \"Uganda Project\", before the Sixth Zionist Congress (Basel, August 1903), carrying the majority (295:178, 98 abstentions) on the question of investigating this offer, after the Russian delegation stormed out. In 1905 the 6th Zionist Congress, after investigations, decided to decline the British offer and firmly committed itself to a Jewish homeland in Palestine. A \"Heimstatte\"—a homeland for the Jewish people in Palestine secured by public law.\n\nHerzl did not live to see the rejection of the Uganda plan. At 5 p.m. 3 July 1904, in Edlach, a village inside Reichenau an der Rax, Lower Austria, Theodor Herzl, having been diagnosed with a heart issue earlier in the year, died of cardiac sclerosis. A day before his death, he told the Reverend William H. Hechler: \"Greet Palestine for me. I gave my heart's blood for my people.\"\n\nHis will stipulated that he should have the poorest-class funeral without speeches or flowers and he added, \"I wish to be buried in the vault beside my father, and to lie there till the Jewish people shall take my remains to Israel\". Nevertheless, some six thousand followed Herzl's hearse, and the funeral was long and chaotic. Despite Herzl's request that no speeches be made, a brief eulogy was delivered by David Wolffsohn. Hans Herzl, then thirteen, read the \"kaddish\".\n\nIn 1949, his remains were moved from Vienna to be reburied on the top of Mount Herzl in Jerusalem, named in his memory.\n\nHerzl Day () is an Israeli national holiday celebrated annually on the tenth of the Hebrew month of Iyar, to commemorate the life and vision of Zionist leader Theodor Herzl.\n\nHerzl's grandfathers, both of whom he knew, were more closely related to traditional Judaism than were his parents. In Zemun (Zemlin), his grandfather Simon Loeb Herzl \"had his hands on\" one of the first copies of Judah Alkalai's 1857 work prescribing the \"return of the Jews to the Holy Land and renewed glory of Jerusalem\". Contemporary scholars conclude that Herzl's own implementation of modern Zionism was undoubtedly influenced by that relationship. Herzl's grandparents' graves in Semlin can still be visited. Alkalai himself witnessed the rebirth of Serbia from Ottoman rule in the early and mid-19th century and was inspired by the Serbian uprising and subsequent re-creation of Serbia.\n\nIn 25 June 1889, he married Julie Naschauer, daughter of a wealthy Jewish businessman in Vienna. The marriage was unhappy, although three children were born to it: Paulina, Hans and Margaritha (Trude). Herzl had a strong attachment to his mother, who was unable to get along with his wife. These difficulties were increased by the political activities of his later years, in which his wife took little interest.\n\nHis daughter Paulina suffered from mental illness and drug addiction. She died in 1930 at the age of 40 of a heroin overdose.\n\nHis only son Hans was given a secular upbringing and Herzl notably refused to allow him to be circumcised. After Herzl's early death, Hans successively converted and became a Baptist, then a Catholic, and flirted with other Protestant denominations. He sought a personal salvation for his own religious needs and a universal solution, as had his father, to Jewish suffering caused by antisemitism. Hanz Herzl voluntarily had himself circumcised 29 May 1905; Hans shot himself to death on the day of his sister Paulina's funeral; he was 39 years old.\n\nHans left a suicide note explaining his reasons.\n\nIn 2006 the remains of Paulina and Hans were moved from Bordeaux, France, and reburied not far from their father on Mt. Herzl.\n\nPaulina and Hans had little contact with their young sister, \"Trude\" (Margarethe, 1893–1943). She married Richard Neumann, a man 17 years her elder. Neumann lost his fortune in the Great Depression. Burdened by the steep costs of hospitalizing Trude, who suffered from severe bouts of depressive illness that required repeated hospitalization, the Neumanns' financial life was precarious. The Nazis sent Trude and Richard to the Theresienstadt concentration camp where they died. Her body was burned. (Her mother, who died in 1907, was cremated. Her ashes were lost by accident.)\n\nAt the request of his father Richard Neumann, Trude's son (Herzl's only grandchild), Stephan Theodor Neumann, (1918–1946) was sent for his safety to England in 1935 to the Viennese Zionists and the Zionist Executive in Israel based there . The Neumanns deeply feared for the safety of their only child as violent Austrian antisemitism expanded. In England he read extensively about his grandfather. Zionism had not been a significant part of his background in Austria, but Stephan became an ardent Zionist, was the only descendant of Theodor Herzl to have become one. Anglicizing his name to Stephen Norman, during World War II, Norman enlisted in the British Army rising to the rank of Captain in the Royal Artillery. In late 1945 and early 1946 he took the opportunity to visit the British Mandate of Palestine \"to see what my grandfather had started.\" He wrote in his diary extensively about his trip. What most impressed him was the \"look of freedom\" on the faces of the children, which were not like the sallow look of those from the concentration camps of Europe. He wrote upon leaving Israel, \"My visit to Israel is over ... It is said that to go away is to die a little. And I know that when I went away from Erez Israel, I died a little. But sure, then, to return is somehow to be reborn. And I will return.\"\n\nNorman planned to return to Israel following his military discharge. The Zionist Executive had worked for years through Dr. L. Lauterbach to get Norman to come to Israel as a symbol of Herzl's returning.\n\nOperation Agatha of 29 June 1946, precluded that possibility: British military and police fanned out throughout Israel and arrested Jewish activists. About 2,700 individuals were arrested. On 2 July 1946, Norman wrote to Mrs.Stybovitz-Kahn in Haifa. Her father, Jacob Kahn, had been a good friend of Herzl and a well-known Dutch banker before the war. Norman wrote, \"I intend to go to Israel on a long visit in the future, in fact as soon as passport & permit regulations permit. But the dreadful news of the last two days have done nothing to make this easier.\" He never did return to Israel.\n\nDemobilized from the British army in late spring 1946, without money or job and despondent about his future, Norman followed the advice of Dr.Selig Brodetsky. Dr. H. Rosenblum, the editor of \"Haboker\", a Tel Aviv daily that later became Yediot Aharonot, noted in late 1945 that Dr. Weizmann deeply resented the sudden intrusion and reception of Norman when he arrived in Britain. Norman spoke to the Zionist conference in London. Haboker reported, \"Something similar happened at the Zionist conference in London. The Chairman suddenly announced to the meeting that in the hall there was Herzl's grandson who wanted to say a few words. The introduction was made in an absolutely dry and official way. It was felt that the chairman looked for—and found—some stylistic formula which would satisfy the visitor without appearing too cordial to anybody among the audience. In spite of that there was a great thrill in the hall when Norman mounted on the platform of the praesidium. At that moment, Dr.Weizmann turned his back on the speaker and remained in this bodily and mental attitude until the guest had finished his speech.\" The 1945 article went on to note that Norman was snubbed by Weizmann and by some in Israel during his visit because of ego, jealousy, vanity and their own personal ambitions. Brodetsky was Chaim Weizman's principal ally and supporter in Britain.\n\nChaim Weizmann secured for Norman a desirable but minor position with the British Economic and Scientific Mission in Washington, D.C. In late August 1946, shortly after arriving in Washington, he learned that his family had perished. Norman had re-established contact with his old nanny in Vienna, Wuth, who told him what happened. Norman became deeply depressed over the fate of his family and his inability to help the Jewish people \"languishing\" in the European camps. Unable to endure his suffering any further, he jumped to his death from the Massachusetts Avenue Bridge in Washington, D.C. on 26 November 1946.\n\nNorman was buried by the Jewish Agency in Washington, D.C. His tombstone read simply, 'Stephen Theodore Norman, Captain Royal Artillery British Army, Grandson of Theodor Herzl, 21 April 1918 − 26 November 1946'. Norman was the only descendent of Herzl to have been a Zionist, been to Israel and openly stated his desire to return.\n\nOn 5 December 2007, sixty-one years after his death, he was reburied with his family on Mt. Herzl, in the Plot for Zionist Leaders.\n\nThe Stephen Norman garden on Mount Herzl in Jerusalem—the only memorial in the world to a Herzl other than Theodor Herzl—was dedicated on 2 May 2012 by the Jerusalem Foundation and the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation. On one of the walls of the garden, located between the Herzl Museum and the Herzl Educational Center, is a quote from Norman from when he visited Israel in 1946. The quote sums up the meaning of Zionism and Israel.\n\"You will be amazed at the Jewish Youth in Palestine ... they have the look of freedom.\"\n\nBeginning in late 1895, Herzl wrote \"Der Judenstaat\" (\"The State of the Jews\"). The small book was initially published 14 February 1896, in Leipzig, Germany, and Vienna, Austria, by M. Breitenstein's Verlags-Buchhandlung. It is subtitled \"Versuch einer modernen Lösung der Judenfrage\", (\"Proposal of a modern solution for the Jewish question\"). \"Der Judenstaat\" proposed the structure and beliefs of what political Zionism was.\n\nHerzl's solution was the creation of a Jewish state. In the book he outlined his reasoning for the need to reestablish the historic Jewish state.\n\n\"The idea I have developed in this pamphlet is an ancient one: It is the restoration of the Jewish State ...\"\n\n\"The decisive factor is our propelling force. And what is that force? The plight of the Jews ... I am profoundly convinced that I am right, though I doubt whether I shall live to see myself proved so. Those who today inaugurate this movement are unlikely to live to see its glorious culmination. But the very inauguration is enough to inspire in them a high pride and the joy of an inner liberation of their existence ...\"\n\n\"The plan would seem mad enough if a single individual were to undertake it; but if many Jews simultaneously agree on it, it is entirely reasonable, and its achievement presents no difficulties worth mentioning. The idea depends only on the number of its adherents. Perhaps our ambitious young men, to whom every road of advancement is now closed, and for whom the Jewish state throws open a bright prospect of freedom, happiness, and honor, perhaps they will see to it that this idea is spread ...\"\n\n\"It depends on the Jews themselves whether this political document remains for the present a political romance. If this generation is too dull to understand it rightly, a future, finer, more advanced generation will arise to comprehend it. The Jews who will try it shall achieve their State; and they will deserve it ...\"\n\n\"I consider the Jewish question neither a social nor a religious one, even though it sometimes takes these and other forms. It is a national question, and to solve it we must first of all establish it as an international political problem to be discussed and settled by the civilized nations of the world in council.\n\n\"We are a people—one people.\n\n\"We have sincerely tried everywhere to merge with the national communities in which we live, seeking only to preserve the faith of our fathers. It is not permitted us. In vain are we loyal patriots, sometimes superloyal; in vain do we make the same sacrifices of life and property as our fellow citizens; in vain do we strive to enhance the fame of our native lands in the arts and sciences, or her wealth by trade and commerce. In our native lands where we have lived for centuries we are still decried as aliens, often by men whose ancestors had not yet come at a time when Jewish sighs had long been heard in the country ...\"\n\n\"Oppression and persecution cannot exterminate us. No nation on earth has endured such struggles and sufferings as we have. Jew-baiting has merely winnowed out our weaklings; the strong among us defiantly return to their own whenever persecution breaks out ...\"\n\n\"Wherever we remain politically secure for any length of time, we assimilate. I think this is not praiseworthy ...\"\n\n\"Israel is our unforgettable historic homeland ...\"\n\n\"Let me repeat once more my opening words: The Jews who will it shall achieve their State. We shall live at last as free men on our own soil, and in our own homes peacefully die. The world will be liberated by our freedom, enriched by our wealth, magnified by our greatness. And whatever we attempt there for our own benefit will redound mightily and beneficially to the good of all mankind.\"\n\nHis last literary work, \"Altneuland\" (in English: \"The Old New Land\", 1902), is a novel devoted to Zionism. Herzl occupied his free time for three years in writing what he believed might be accomplished by 1923. Though the form is that of a romance, It is less a novel than a serious forecast of what could be done within one generation. The keynotes of the story are love of Zion and insistence upon the fact that the suggested changes in life are not utopian but to be brought about simply by grouping all the best efforts and ideals of every race and nation. Each such effort is quoted and referred to in such a manner as to show that \n\"Altneuland\", though blossoming through the skill of the Jew, will in reality be the product of the benevolent efforts of all the members of the human family.\n\nHerzl envisioned a Jewish state that combined modern Jewish culture with the best of the European heritage. Thus a \"Palace of Peace\" would be built in Jerusalem to arbitrate international disputes, and at the same time the Temple would be rebuilt on modern principles. Herzl did not envision the Jewish inhabitants of the state as being religious, but there was respect for religion in the public sphere. He also assumed that many languages would be spoken, and that Hebrew would not be the main tongue. Proponents of a Jewish cultural rebirth, such as \"Ahad Ha'am\", were critical of \"Altneuland\".\n\nIn \"Altneuland\", Herzl did not foresee any conflict between Jews and Arabs. One of the main characters in \"Altneuland\" is a Haifa engineer, Reshid Bey, who is one of the leaders of the \"New Society\". He is very grateful to his Jewish neighbors for improving the economic condition of Israel and sees no cause for conflict. All non-Jews have equal rights, and an attempt by a fanatical rabbi to disenfranchise the non-Jewish citizens of their rights fails in the election which is the center of the main political plot of the novel.\n\nHerzl also envisioned the future Jewish state to be a \"third way\" between capitalism and socialism, with a developed welfare program and public ownership of the main natural resources. Industry, agriculture and trade were organized on a cooperative basis. Along with many other progressive Jews of the day, such as Emma Lazarus, Louis Brandeis, Albert Einstein, and Franz Oppenheimer, Herzl desired to enact the land reforms proposed by the American political economist Henry George. Specifically, they called for a land value tax. He called his mixed economic model \"Mutualism\", a term derived from French utopian socialist thinking. Women would have equal voting rights—as they had in the Zionist movement from the Second Zionist Congress onwards.\n\nIn \"Altneuland\", Herzl outlined his vision for a new Jewish state in the Land of Israel. He summed up his vision of an open society:\"It is founded on the ideas which are a common product of all civilized nations ... It would be immoral if we would exclude anyone, whatever his origin, his descent, or his religion, from participating in our achievements. For we stand on the shoulders of other civilized peoples ... What we own we owe to the preparatory work of other peoples. Therefore, we have to repay our debt. There is only one way to do it, the highest tolerance. Our motto must therefore be, now and ever: 'Man, you are my brother.'\"\n\n\"If you will it, it is no dream.\" a phrase from Herzl's book \"Old New Land\", became a popular slogan of the Zionist movement—the striving for a Jewish National Home in Israel.\n\nIn his novel, Herzl wrote about an electoral campaign in the new state. He directed his wrath against the nationalist party, which wished to make the Jews a privileged class in Israel. Herzl regarded that as a betrayal of Zion, for Zion was identical to him with humanitarianism and tolerance—and that this was true in politics as well as religion. Herzl wrote:\n\"Matters of faith were once and for all excluded from public influence ... Whether anyone sought religious devotion in the synagogue, in the church, in the mosque, in the art museum, or in a philharmonic concert, did not concern society. That was his [own] private affair.\"\n\"Altneuland\" was written both for Jews and non-Jews: Herzl wanted to win over non-Jewish opinion for Zionism. When he was still thinking of Argentina as a possible venue for massive Jewish immigration, he wrote in his diary:\n\nThe name \"Tel Aviv\" was the title given to the Hebrew translation of \"Altneuland\" by the translator, Nahum Sokolow. This name comes from Ezekiel 3:15 and means tell—an ancient mound formed when a town is built on its own debris for thousands of years—of spring. The name was later applied to the new town built outside Jaffa that became Tel Aviv-Yafo the second-largest city in Israel. The nearby city to the north, Herzliya, was named in honour of Herzl.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7949102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7949102", "title": "Tishani Doshi", "text": "Tishani Doshi\n\nTishani Doshi (born 9 December 1975) is an Indian poet, journalist and dancer based in Chennai.\n\nBorn in Madras, India, to a Welsh mother and Gujarati father, she received an Eric Gregory Award in 2001. Her first poetry collection, Countries of the Body, won the 2006 Forward Poetry Prize for best first collection. She was invited to the poetry galas of the Guardian-sponsored Hay Festival of 2006 and the Cartagena Hay Festival of 2007. Her first novel, \"The Pleasure Seekers\", was published by Bloomsbury in 2010 and was long-listed for the Orange Prize in 2011, and shortlisted for The Hindu Best Fiction Award in 2010.\n\nShe writes a blog titled \"Hit or Miss\" on Cricinfo, a cricket-related website. In the blog, which she started writing in April 2009, Tishani Doshi makes observations and commentaries as a television viewer of the second season of the Indian Premier League. She is also collaborating with cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan on his biography, to be published when he retires.\n\nShe works as a freelance writer and worked with choreographer Chandralekha until the latter's death in December 2006. She graduated with a master's degree in creative writing from the Johns Hopkins University.\n\n\"Countries of the Body\" was launched in 2006 at the Hay-on-Wye festival on a platform with Seamus Heaney, Margaret Atwood, and others. The opening poem, \"The Day we went to the Sea\", won the 2005 British Council-supported All India Poetry Competition; she was also a finalist in the Outlook-Picador Non-Fiction Competition.\n\nHer short story \"Lady Cassandra, Spartacus and the dancing man\" was published in its entirety in the journal \"The Drawbridge\" in 2007.\n\nHer poetry collection, \"Everything Begins Elsewhere\", was published by Copper Canyon Press in 2013.\n\nHer most recent book of poetry, \"Girls Are Coming Out of the Woods\", was published by HarperCollins India in 2017.\n\nTishani Doshi delivered the keynote address at the 13th annual St. Martin Book Fair on the Caribbean island of St. Maarten (St. Martin) in 2015. Her book \"The Adulterous Citizen – poems stories essays\" (2015) was launched at the festival by House of Nehesi Publishers.\n\n"}
{"id": "293863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293863", "title": "Wild Man Fischer", "text": "Wild Man Fischer\n\nLawrence Wayne \"Wild Man\" Fischer (November 6, 1944 – June 16, 2011) was an American street performer known for offering erratic, acapella performances of \"new kinds of songs\" for a nickel or a dime each on the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood. Most of his life was spent homeless or institutionalized, and he later became regarded as \"the godfather of outsider music\".\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, Fischer was repeatedly sent to mental institutions as a teenager, where he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In 1968, he recorded a double album, \"An Evening with Wild Man Fischer\", that was produced by Frank Zappa for the Bizarre label. At one point, Fischer was the opening act for the Byrds, Iron Butterfly, Solomon Burke, and Bo Diddley. His relationship with Zappa came to an abrupt end after Fischer threw a bottle that nearly hit Zappa's daughter Moon.\n\nIn 1975, Fischer helped jumpstart Rhino Records with the novelty single \"Go to Rhino Records\". The label put out a trilogy of albums that ultimately became his last: \"Wildmania\" (1977), \"Pronounced Normal\" (1981), and \"Nothing Scary\" (1983); the latter two were produced by the comedy music duo Barnes & Barnes. A documentary about Fischer's life, \"\", premiered at the South by Southwest festival in 2005. In 2004, he consented to move into an assisted-living hospital. He died of heart failure several years later at the age of 66.\n\nLaurence Wayne Fischer was born on November 6, 1944 in Los Angeles, California. From an early age, he experienced major mood swings, and developed a habit of singing Paul Anka songs at the top of his voice, which he called having \"the pep\". When his mood worsened, he experienced auditory hallucinations and acted violently toward his family. He attended Fairfax High School but was expelled in 1962 for singing in class. In 1963, he was committed to Camarillo State Hospital for threatening his mother with a knife, and he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenic and manic depression. Released one year later, he appeared at numerous talent shows and was discovered by R&B singer Solomon Burke, who gave him the nickname \"Wild Man\" and brought him along on a tour. Fischer was still living at home at this time, and in 1965, was once again institutionalized for his behavior. According to Fischer, the hospital stays only exacerbated his condition.\n\nBy 1967, Fischer was on medication and acting as a street performer in Hollywood. For a nickel or a dime, he would offer a \"new kind of song\" to passersby as an acapella performance. This led him to become an opening act for the Byrds, Bo Diddley, and Iron Butterfly. While performing onstage and outside at the Sunset Strip, he was noticed by Frank Zappa, bandleader for the Mothers of Invention. Zappa later said: \"I thought from the first day I met him that someone should make an album about Wild Man Fischer.\" He invited Fischer into a studio and recorded him singing about topics such as his mother, mental hospitals, fame, circles, and how he could move faster than a cat could see him. The Mothers of Invention, record producer Kim Fowley, and Zappa's girl group the GTOs made guest appearances on some of the tracks.\n\nReleased as a double album in 1968, \"An Evening with Wild Man Fischer\" was given a positive review in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, where it was described as \"captur[ing] the total being of one strange member of the human community\". On September 23, 1968, thanks to his connections with Zappa, Fischer appeared on \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\", singing \"Leaves Are Falling\" and \"Merry-Go-Round\". In December, Zappa arranged for him to perform at a Christmas show involving the Mothers, the GTOs, and Alice Cooper. Fischer sang \"Circles\".\n\nFischer was frustrated that the album failed to bring him the fame he expected. One day, he visited Zappa and threw a bottle that nearly hit Zappa's infant daughter Moon. This ended their relationship. In a song Fischer later wrote (\"Frank Zappa\"), he alleged that Zappa subsequently withheld his recording income (\"Frank's got my publishing rights / You could say he's on my mind / I think about him all the time\"). After Frank's death in 1993, Gail Zappa inherited her husband's musical copyrights, and refused to reissue the album for as long as she lived.\n\nIn 1974 Larry appeared as a guest vocalist on noise band Smegma's album \"Sing Popular Songs\". In 1975, he recorded Rhino Records' first release, a novelty single entitled \"Go to Rhino Records\". At the time, Rhino Records was only a record shop in Los Angeles. According to the \"New York Times\": \"Demand for [the single] proved so great that it catapulted the store's owners into the record-producing business.\" Two years later he recorded their very first LP, \"Wildmania\". In the 1980s, Fischer worked with the comedy music duo Barnes and Barnes (Bill Mumy and Robert Haimer) to produce two more albums for Rhino, \"Pronounced Normal\" (1981) and \"Nothing Scary\" (1984). In 1986, Barnes and Barnes also wrote and produced \"It's a Hard Business\", a duet featuring Fischer and Rosemary Clooney. The song was the result of a telephone friendship they began due to mutual acquaintances. In 1988, a judge awarded Fischer royalties on his song \"Merry-Go-Round\" (from the videocassette release of the movie \"Medium Cool\"), but the attorney representing Fischer did not know how to contact him. Fischer was still homeless, living in motels and on the streets while panhandling at places like Dodger Stadium and Disneyland. He performed at the 1988 San Diego Comic Con with Bill Mumy's group as his backing band.\n\nIn 1998, \"Date with the Devils Daughter\", an album by Robert Williams (a drummer formerly with Captain Beefheart) includes \"Hello Robert\", which consists of messages that Fischer left on Williams's phone. In 1999, Rhino released \"The Fischer King\", a two-CD package comprising 100 tracks and a 20-page booklet, which sold out within weeks. The limited-edition album comprises his entire Rhino catalog, including all three of the Rhino albums plus singles, unreleased material, interviews done for this release, and his duet with Clooney. It releases almost everything Fischer ever recorded, except \"An Evening with Wild Man Fischer\", for which the Zappa family still held the rights.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Fischer was filmed as the subject of a full-length documentary, \"\", which premiered at South by Southwest in March 2005. Co-director Josh Rubin called the four years making the film \"the most arduous, trying time of my life\" due to Fischer's erratic behavior. It included an appearance from Devo's Mark Mothersbaugh who called him: \"as pure a rock and roll icon as you can find. He's mainlined into the creative subconscious.\" In 2004, Fischer was the subject of a comic book (\"The Legend of Wild Man Fischer\" by Dennis Eichhorn), and in October, appeared on ABC-TV's late-night talk/comedy show, \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\".\n\nIn 2003, Fischer suffered a six-month-long paranoid episode, convinced somebody was trying to kill him, and he started living on the streets again. He called Bill Mumy up to 20 times a day, hanging up each time, until Mumy finally had to change his phone number. Fischer eventually moved in with his aunt Josephine, but three weeks later she was diagnosed with terminal cancer (this happened during the filming of \"Derailroaded\"). Fischer and his family consented to move him into an assisted-living mental institution in Van Nuys. The medications he was prescribed helped him control his behavior, but it also eliminated his creative drive, or \"pep\". Fischer made his final performance on August 16, 2006, at the Trunk Space in Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nThe last seven years of Fischer's life were spent peacefully but uneventfully. On June 16, 2011, he died of heart failure at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, at the age of 66.\n\nStudio albums\n\nEP\n\nCompilations\n\nSingles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15055822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15055822", "title": "William Charles John Pitcher", "text": "William Charles John Pitcher\n\nWilliam John Charles Pitcher (21 March 1858 – 2 March 1925), known as Wilhelm or C. Wilhelm, was an English artist, costume and scenery designer, best known for his designs for ballets, pantomimes, comic operas, and Edwardian musical comedies.\n\nWilhelm was born at Northfleet, in Kent, England, the son of a shipbuilder. \n\nThe young artist showed early promise, and J. R. Planché recommended him to design for the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. There, Wilhelm created costumes, beginning in 1877, for numerous works, including the famous pantomimes of Sir Augustus Harris and for others until 1897, including the spectacular drama, \"Armada\" (1888). He also designed costumes for various music hall artists and for many London theatres, including Her Majesty's Theatre, The Coliseum, The Crystal Palace, and for three pantomimes at the Lyceum Theatre. For Robert Courtneidge in Manchester, England, Wilhelm designed two Shakespeare plays: \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" and \"As You Like It\". Wilhelm also designed costumes for numerous pantomimes, including \"Cinderella\", \"Dick Whittington\", and \"Blue Beard\". He was the designer for some of the costumes in several of the original Gilbert and Sullivan operas at the Savoy Theatre in the 1880s, including \"Iolanthe\", \"Princess Ida\", \"The Sorcerer\" (revival), \"The Mikado\", and \"Ruddigore\". He also designed costumes for \"Jane Annie\" at the Savoy (1893) and for the Olympia, London spectacles \"Nero\" (1889) and \"Venice\" (1891).\nWilhelm was, perhaps, best known for his work for the Empire Theatre, London, from 1887 to 1915, where he designed both scenery and costumes for (and sometimes produced) numerous ballets, many of which starred Adeline Genée, and which established a fashion for stage design and were much imitated. His later costume designs included \"The New Aladdin\" (1906); Edward German's opera \"Tom Jones\" (1907); \"Peter Pan\" (the famous mermaid costumes for the 1905 revival); and \"The Arcadians\" (1909) and \"The Mousmé\" (1911), among other musical comedies. Wilhelm's costume designs were seen on Broadway in \"Ruddigore\" (1887), \"A Runaway Girl\" (1898–99), \"The Toreador\" (1902), \"Three Little Maids\" (1903), \"The Babes and the Baron\" (1905–06), \"The Red Mill\" (1906–07), \"The Soul Kiss\" (1908), \"The Silver Star\" (1909–10), \"The Old Town\" (1910), \"The Arcadians\" (1910), \"The Girl in the Train\" (1910), \"The Lady of the Slipper\" (1912–13), \"Chin Chin\" (1914–15), \"The Yankee Princess\" (1922), \"Stepping Stones\" (scenic and costume design, 1923–24), \"Madame Pompadour\" (1924–25).\n\nLondon's \"The Times\" wrote, \"Wilhelm excelled especially in rendering the spirit and detail of historical periods, but he had also an amusing skill in turning modern costumes to his fantastic purposes... to his imaginative gifts he added remarkable precision and firmness in execution and great ingenuity in the treatment of colour.\" Wilhelm also contributed a number of articles on the art of the theatre to \"The Magazine of Art\", including \"Art in Ballet\" (1895). In his last years, he focused on watercolour painting, especially of flowers and plant life, and illustrating children's books, including \"The Child of the Air\", and he was elected to the Royal Institute of Painters in Water Colours in 1920.\n\nHe died in London just short of his 67th birthday and is buried in Brompton cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "8055944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055944", "title": "Young Perry Alsbury", "text": "Young Perry Alsbury\n\nYoung Perry Alsbury (1814 – November 19, 1877) was a YA YEETsoldier in the Texas Army during the Texas Revolution. He was among the group of volunteers for the mission that was successful in burning the strategically important Vince's Bridge during the Battle of San Jacururuinto. Additionally Juana Navarro Alsbury, the wife of his brother Horace Arlington Alsbury (AKA Horatio Alexander Alsbury), was one of the few survivors of the battle of the Alamo.\n\nYoung Perry Alsbury was born in Hopkinsville, Kentucky in 1814. He was the youngest son of ten children. His father, Thomas Alsbury, Jr., was a frontiersman and Indian spy in Virginia (now West Virginia) in the 1790s, and then an early settler and tavern/innkeeper in Hopkinsville, Christian County, Kentucky in the early 1800s. His mother was Leah Catlett, born in Maryland. In the early 1820s the Alsbury family moved from Kentucky to Texas. Stephen F. Austin had written a letter to his father asking the Alsbury family, which included seven sons, to move to Texas and become part of the original Austin Colony. They settled in Brazoria on the Brazos River. Land was what had enticed the family to move to the area. Thomas Alsbury was given two leagues and 1½ labors (between 9,000 and 10,000 acres) (36 and 40 km²). (A league of land was , a labor 177.136 acres). The property was located on the west bank of the Brazos River. Three of the older sons of Thomas (Charles, Harvey, and Horace) were also given land. It was located in the Indian country, along the Gulf Coast, a bit west of where the Dow Chemical Company is now located. Young Perry Alsbury was too young at that time to obtain his own land grant.\n\nWhen he was 22, during the 1836 Texas Revolution, Young Perry Alsbury fought on the Texian side in Captain Henry Wax Karnes’ Cavalry, better known as \"Deaf Smith's spy company\". Prior to the pivotal Battle of San Jacinto on April 21, 1836, he joined a small company in passing close to enemy lines to burn the strategic Vince's Bridge to prevent reinforcement and escape of Antonio López de Santa Anna. The others who were with him on that mission were Deaf Smith, John Coker, Denmore W. Reaves, John T. Garner, Moses Lapham and Edwin R. Rainwater.\n\nOn May 28, 1838 he was issued Donation Certificate No. 247 for of land for having participated in the battle. He received a Bounty Certificate No. 3599 for of land for having served in the army from March 1 to May 28, 1836. On March 5, 1839, he was issued a Headright Certificate for one-third of a league of land by the Brazoria County Board. Shortly after the Battle of San Jacinto, Young Perry Alsbury came to San Antonio, Texas and in 1845 during the U.S.-Mexican War he went into Mexico with General Scott.\n\nAfter the war he returned to San Antonio, and was married there about 1847 to Mary Rodriguez, said to be a daughter of wealthy Spanish-Americans. He purchased 200 acres of land from Maria de Jesus Olivarri, wife of Ambrosio Rodriguez, and in early spring of 1848 he moved to the East bank of the Salado Creek, just north of Dittmar Road (now Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.) and built a home. His mother Leah moved from Brazoria to live there with him. He raised four children: Leah Jane, b. 1849 (married John R. Hester), Thomas Jefferson, b. 1851 (married Bertha Edwards), Young Perry Jr., b. 1855 (married Mary Elizabeth Jowers), and Mary Ann, b. 1860 (married Albert Moody). Y.P. served as a Texas Ranger and was involved in several Indian skirmishes. Young Perry Alsbury died November 19, 1877 in his early 60s, and was buried only a few yards from the home on the Salado that he loved. His wife Mary died 3 years later, in 1880. A huge pecan tree marked the head of his grave. To his right lies the body of his wife, and to his left is that of his mother. In 1936, centennial year of the Texas Revolution, the Texas Historical Commission placed a polished marble historical marker on his grave.\n\n\n"}
