{"id": "6866417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6866417", "title": "42nd Street–Bryant Park/Fifth Avenue (New York City Subway)", "text": "42nd Street–Bryant Park/Fifth Avenue (New York City Subway)\n\n42nd Street–Bryant Park/Fifth Avenue is an underground New York City Subway station complex, consisting of stations on the IRT Flushing Line and IND Sixth Avenue Line, formerly without direct connection, now connected by a pedestrian tunnel. Located at 42nd Street between Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue (Avenue of the Americas) in Manhattan, it is served by the:\n\n\nThe Sixth Avenue Line platforms are located one block west of, and above, the Flushing Line platforms; the platforms are connected by a passageway. Free transfers between the two stations were available on Mondays to Fridays from December 18, 1967, until 1968, by providing paper tickets to passengers, who would exit one station and follow the sidewalk in order to enter the other. The tunnel now permits leaving a train in one station and walking underground to one in the other, and takes away the need for transfer tickets. The entire station complex was fully renovated in 1998. There are three elevators to street level – one each located on the southwestern and northwestern corners of Sixth Avenue and 42nd Street, and one on the western side of Sixth Avenue between 39th and 40th Streets – but there are no elevators to either platform level, so the station complex is not fully ADA-accessible.\n\nIn 2010, it was rated the noisiest place in New York City.\n\nA transfer to the 42nd Street Shuttle at Times Square is proposed as part of the 2015–2019 MTA Capital Program. A new platform for the shuttle, which would be wide and located between Tracks 1 and 4 (the outer tracks of the shuttle tunnel), would replace the existing curved platforms for tracks 1, 3, and 4. The platform would be built along the section of the shuttle that runs under 42nd Street, which is located within a straight tunnel. The whole project will cost $235.41 million. The Times Square shuttle platform will be extended east to allow for a second point of entry at Sixth Avenue, with a connection to the IND Sixth Avenue Line platforms.\n\n42nd Street–Bryant Park, opened on December 15, 1940 as part of the opening of the IND Sixth Avenue Line from 47th–50th Streets–Rockefeller Center to West Fourth Street. It is an express station, with four tracks and two island platforms. B and D trains stop at the inner express tracks while F and M trains stop at the outer local tracks.\n\nBoth outer track walls have a scarlet red trim line with a chocolate brown border and small white \"42\" signs on a black background below them at regular intervals. Red I-beam columns run along both sides of both platforms at regular intervals with alternating ones having the standard black station name plate in white lettering. Some of the columns between the express tracks have black \"42\" signs on a white background.\n\nThis station has a full length mezzanine above the platforms and tracks. It originally extended south from 42nd Street to the 34th Street–Herald Square station, with additional entrances at 38th Street. The passageway was long, dim, and lightly traveled, and it was finally closed in 1991 after a series of rapes took place there. It is now used for storage. The mezzanine has a florist, orange I-beam columns, lit-up ads, and space rentals along the walls.\n\nSouth of this station, there are three sets of crossovers, allowing trains to switch between all four tracks. Those switches are not currently used in revenue service.\n\nOn either end of the mezzanine is a fare control area. The full-time side is at the north end. This is where the passageway to the IRT Flushing Line is located. Two staircases from each platform go up to a turnstile bank, where outside there is a token booth, one staircase going up to the southwest corner of 42nd Street and Sixth Avenue, and a passageway through some abandoned ticket counters under 1095 Avenue of the Americas that lead to a staircase that goes up to the building's pedestrian plaza.\n\nOn the south end of the mezzanine, two staircases from each platform go up to an unstaffed bank of regular and HEET turnstiles. Outside fare control, there are three staircases going up to the northwestern, northeastern, and southeastern corners of 40th Street and Sixth Avenue with the northwestern one being built inside a building. There is another exit at the northwest corner of Sixth Avenue and 39th Street.\n\nThis station has another fare control area at its extreme north end. A staircase from each platform goes up to a mezzanine, where a bank of regular and HEET turnstiles provide access to/from the station. Outside fare control, there is a Customer Assistance Booth and a staircase built inside 1100 Avenue of the Americas (HBO headquarters) that goes up to the northeast corner of 42nd Street and Sixth Avenue.\n\nTwo modern, glass-enclosed staircases, and one elevator go up to the northwest corner of this intersection outside of the Bank of America Tower. Another elevator, located within a building, leads from the mezzanine to the southwest corner of the intersection via a staircase and wheelchair ramp. One more elevator, at the northwest corner of Sixth Avenue and 39th Street entrance, was created for the 40th Street mezzanine. The station has a total of 3 elevator entrances. However, because there are no elevators from the mezzanine to the platforms, the platforms themselves are not ADA-accessible.\n\nFifth Avenue (signed as Fifth Avenue – Bryant Park) on the IRT Flushing Line has a local station configuration with two tracks serving the 7 train at all times and the <7> train on weekdays in the peak direction.\n\nThe Fifth Avenue station opened on March 22, 1926, extending the IRT Flushing Line one stop to the west from the line's previous terminus at Grand Central. This station served as the western terminus of the line until the Times Square station on the line opened on March 14, 1927.\n\nThe platforms at Fifth Avenue and all other stations on the Flushing Line with the exception of Queensboro Plaza were extended in 1955–1956 to accommodate 11-car trains.\n\nThis station has two tracks and one island platform. The platform walls have a mosaic golden trimline with \"5\" tablets at regular intervals along it.\n\nThe 2002 artwork here is called \"Under Bryant Park\" by Samm Kunce. It is located in the transfer passageway and consists of glass mosiac and etched granite depicting roots of trees with various literary quotes.\n\nThe Fifth Avenue station is the first within the subway system to receive a vending machine that dispenses make up and other retail products. It is part of a pilot program to increase retail activity within the MTA system, and it capitalizes on a new trend in vending machine development.\n\nThe station has a full length mezzanine directly above the platform and tracks. The full-time fare control is at the east end. A single stair on the southwest corner of 5th Avenue and 42nd Street in front of the New York Public Library Main Building goes down to an area that has a full-time token booth and turnstile bank that leads to several staircases down to the platform.\n\nTowards the west end, the mezzanine splits in 2 with 1 portion becoming a down hill ramp where there is another staircases up from the platform before leading to the passageway to the IND Sixth Avenue Line. The portion of the mezzanine that curves up leads to some HEET turnstiles and a small fare control area. The two adjacent street stairs here have elaborate ironwork and go up to the south side of 42nd Street between 5th and 6th Avenues on the northern edge of Bryant Park.\n"}
{"id": "41236201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41236201", "title": "456 Montgomery Plaza", "text": "456 Montgomery Plaza\n\n456 Montgomery Plaza is a , 26-story class-A office skyscraper on Montgomery Street in the Financial District of San Francisco, California.\n\n456 Montgomery was constructed in the mid-1980s on the site of the Italian American Bank (designed by Albert Pissis in 1907) and A. Borel and Company (designed by Howard and Galloway in 1908). The modern tower retains the classic temple facades at its base.\n\nThe original bank facade architects are incorrectly attributed in the earlier comments.\n\n456 Montgomery, completed in August 1985, is a 26-story steel frame high-rise office tower rising above two circa 1907 landmark granite banking facades. Serving as the primary building entrance at 456 Montgomery is the former Borel Bank (then 440 Montgomery (Albert Pissis)) while at the corner of Montgomery and Sacramento Streets is the original Italian American Bank headquarters (John Galen Howard) that now fronts a leased commercial banking space at 460 Montgomery Street.\n\nPreserving the two landmark facades took advantage of a new, and at times controversial, urban design precedent as illustrated by other similar projects such as 353 Sacramento and One Sansome Streets. All three of these projects serve to varying degrees of success as examples of a design strategy intended to resolve conflicts between the architectural preservation and development communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "52403557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52403557", "title": "Adolf Engström", "text": "Adolf Engström\n\nCarl Adolf Engström (17 February 1855 — 19 June 1924) was a Finnish engineer, businessman and vuorineuvos.\n\nEngström got familiar already at early age with large machinery and engineering workshop environment due to his stepfather's work as engineer in the Finnish State Railways. After completing his mechanical engineering studies in Helsinki Polytechnic School in 1877, Engström went to gain experience abroad in Sweden, Germany, United Kingdom and United States.\n\nUpon his return in 1884, Engström got vacance in the State Railways. He took successfully part in steam locomotive designing, which was followed by railway projects in Savonia and Karelia. He worked as director for stone company Ab Granit in 1889–1895, after which he returned to State Railways for another five years.\n\nEngström was appointed manager of Hietalahti Shipyard and Engineering Works in 1900. During his time the company developed rapidly and the sales increased significantly, largely due to Russo-Japanese War and the First World War. On the other hand, the time was difficult due to increased strikes and confrontation between the workers and employers. Engström left his position as company manager in 1918; this was affected by the death of his son in the previous Finnish Civil War.\n\nAdolf Engström was born in Vörå, Ostrobothnia. His parents were land surveyor Leonhard Engström and Adolfina née Taxell, who was daughter of Messukylä vicar Jonas Gabriel Taxell. The couple had two daughters and sons Adolf and Otto. Leonhard Engström died when Adolf was four years old, and the widow got married to her late husband's older brother Carl Petter Engström, who was Mechanical Engineer. The family moved to Helsinki in 1862, and the Ostrobothnian boy had to adopt to a new environment. The stepfather worked for the Finnish State Railways, and that way Adolf got familiar with engineering workshops and large machinery during his childhood. C. P. Engström became Chief Engineer in the State Railways in 1870 and during 1877–1890 he was board member in railway administration.\n\nEngström graduated from Helsinki Swedish Normal Lyceum in 1874 and continued his studies in Helsinki Polytechnic School and graduated Mechanical Engineer in 1877. He wanted to gain abroad useful practical experience abroad, which he could later use for developing his home country. Engström first worked for Motala Engineering Works in Sweden as draftsman, and then in Germany for Hannoversche Maschinenbau AG and Hohenzollern Locomotive Works. He went next to England, where he worked for Beyer Peacock & Co in Manchester. Engström's following step was the United States; he worked for Pennsylvania Railroad Company Altoona Works.\n\nIn 1884 Engström returned to Finland, for State Railways, to take part in a locomotive project. The target was to design a locomotive suitable for Oulu railway; it should be firewood compatible and also stronger and more fuel efficient, than a type used on Nikolaistad railway. Engström redesigned the firebox and made the structure more robust. This locomotive type was produced total 104 units.\n\nAfter the Oulu railway was built, Engström continued in Savonian and Karelian railway projects. He worked for State Railways until 1889.\n\nEngström returned to State Railways for 1895–1900 to work as engineering workshop manager's assistant.\n\nAs there were no new railway development projects, Engström sought for new opportunities. In 1889 he was appointed director and technical manager of Ab Granit, which was a stone company in Hanko. The company had gained foothold in construction business in Helsinki and grown amongst 30 largest companies of Finland. At the turn of the 1890s the company employed 268 people. The 1894 erected Tsar Alexander II statue in Senate Square, of which foundation was constructed by Granit, promoted the company's sales in Russia.\n\nEngström was appointed manager of Sandvikens Skeppsdocka och Mekaniska Verkstads Ab (\"Hietalahti Shipyard and Engineering Works\") in 1900. He followed engineer Edvin Bergroth, who was the first manager of the company that was re-established after bankruptcy. Bergroth had developed the operations through investments, and Engström received leadership of a financially solid company, which he continued developing determinedly. Engström sometimes faced situations which needed quick decisions – he for example received repair work of a shipwrecked vessel which was too large to the dock; the dock was extended during the salvage process.\n\nThe Russo-Japanese War in 1904–1905 led to increased order intake of torpedo boats for the Imperial Russian Navy. During 1900–1914 the company built total about 60 steam and motor vessels. In addition to shipbuilding, the company produced large number of ship engines, steam boilers and also railway wagons. Engström's personal contribution was significant in the rolling stock production, and the wagon projects balanced the wintertime docking workload drop.\n\nEngström developed and modernised the shipyard; this meant new methods, as electrical welding and pneumatic tools. The dock was further extended in 1910 and 1912 and a new brass foundry was taken into use in 1914. Two years later a new main engineering workshop was opened. Prior to the First World War, the company employed 597 people and the annual sales reached 2.4 million marks. The First World War increased the business again; during 1915–1917 the company docked total 400 vessels. Engström had also further plans which did not actualise, such as a new dock layout, that would have enabled building many large ships simultaneously. All the investments were funded by company profit, and the company did not collect capital from outside during that. By 1919, when Engström left his position, the share capital had grown from half million to six million marks.\n\nEngström's era as shipyard leader was the time of organisation of labour and employers. The yard experienced some occasional strikes at the late 19th century, and after the yard faced larger strikes and conflicts in 1902, Engström called other engineering industry employers to negotiate about forming an employers' association. The first general collective agreement between the union and employers was signed in 1906. Already in 1908 the employers planned to end the agreements because they had not put an end to striking. At the beginning Engström supported collective agreements, but changed his mind in 1909. This led to a long-term strike, which eventually ended to defeat for the union – the engineering industry workers returned to work without having a collective agreement. Consequently, the relations between employers' association and trade unions suffered badly.\n\nEngström was founding member of the 1903 created Finnish Engineering Industry Employers' Association and deputy chairman until 1911, after which he served as chairman until 1919. He also took part in founding the Swedish Technical Science Academy of Finland and he became honorary member of the Finnish Technical Association in 1920. During 1903−1911 he was member of Helsinki City Council.\n\n\nEngström got married to Eva Alexandra Karolina née Jansson in 1885. Their only son died in the Finnish Civil War in 1918. This made Engström to leave his position as company manager. The couple donated a large sum to be shared as scholarships to young technicians, who were orientated to shipbuilding and engineering industry.\n"}
{"id": "9603402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9603402", "title": "Alan Goodman", "text": "Alan Goodman\n\nAlan Goodman is an American media executive, writer, and television producer. He has worked in media since 1981.\n\nGoodman began his media career while still in high school as a reporter at The Hunterdon County Democrat in Flemington, New Jersey. When entering Columbia University in 1970, he joined the college radio station, WKCR-FM where he first encountered his future collaborators, Albie Hecht and Fred Seibert.\n\nIn 1980 Goodman was part of the team that launched MTV: Music Television, alongside his college radio colleague Fred Seibert. Goodman supervised hundreds of animations and their accompanying soundtracks depicting the MTV trademark designed by Manhattan Design. Later, Goodman was part of the team that re-launched Nickelodeon. They were also the company's advertising agency, launching VH-1 and Nick-at-Nite.\n\nGoodman worked with MTV Networks, the parent company of both MTV and Nickelodeon, for over 30 years.\n\nGoodman has written scripts for several television shows including \"Hey Dude\", \"Clarissa Explains It All\", \"Clifford's Puppy Days\", \"JoJo's Circus\", and \"Generation O!\". He was the co-producer and show runner for two seasons of \"Clarissa Explains It All\".\n\nDuring his consulting engagement at BBC America, Goodman wrote and produced entertainment news content and specials for the network.\n\nGoodman created or co-created the television series \"Kids' Court\", \"The Movie Masters\" (both with Albie Hecht) \"Hey Dude\", \"The Mystery Files of Shelby Woo\", among others. Goodman co-created the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "364614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364614", "title": "American Tobacco Company", "text": "American Tobacco Company\n\nThe American Tobacco Company was a tobacco company founded in 1890 by J. B. Duke through a merger between a number of U.S. tobacco manufacturers including Allen and Ginter and Goodwin & Company. The company was one of the original 12 members of the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1896. The American Tobacco Company dominated the industry by acquiring the Lucky Strike Company and over 200 other rival firms. Antitrust action begun in 1907 broke the company into several major companies in 1911.\n\nThe American Tobacco Company restructured itself in 1969, forming a holding company called American Brands, Inc., which operated American Tobacco as a subsidiary. American Brands acquired a variety of non-tobacco businesses during the 1970s and 1980s and sold its tobacco operations to Brown & Williamson in 1994. American Brands subsequently renamed itself Fortune Brands.\n\nJames Buchanan Duke’s entrance into the cigarette industry came about in 1879 when he elected to enter a new business rather than face competition in the shredded pouched smoking tobacco business against the Bull Durham brand, also from Durham, North Carolina.\n\nIn 1881, two years after W. Duke Sons & Company entered into the cigarette business, James Bonsack invented a cigarette-rolling machine. It produced over 200 cigarettes per minute, the equivalent of what a skilled hand roller could produce in one hour, and reduced the cost of rolling cigarettes by 50%. It cut each cigarette with precision, creating uniformity in the cigarettes it rolled. Public stigma was attached to this machine-rolled uniformity, and Allen & Ginter rejected the machine almost immediately.\n\nDuke set a deal with the Bonsack Machine Company in 1884. Duke agreed to produce all cigarettes with his two rented Bonsack machines and in return, Bonsack reduced Duke’s royalties from $0.30 per thousand to $0.20 per thousand. Duke also hired one of Bonsack’s mechanics, resulting in fewer breakdowns of his machines than his competitors’. This secret contract resulted in a competitive advantage over Duke's competitors; he was able to lower his prices further than others could.\n\nIn the 1880s, while Duke was beginning to machine-roll all his cigarettes, he saw that growth rates in the cigarette industry were declining. His solution was to combine companies and found “one of the first great holding companies in American history.” Duke spent $800,000 on advertising in 1889 and lowered his prices, accepting net profits of less than $400,000, forcing his major competitors to lower their prices and, in 1890, join his consortium by the name of the American Tobacco Company. The five constituent companies of American Tobacco: W. Duke & Sons, Allen & Ginter, W.S. Kimball & Company, Kinney Tobacco, and Goodwin & Company – produced 90% of the cigarettes made in 1890, the first year the American Tobacco Company was listed on the NYSE. Within two decades of its founding, the American Tobacco company absorbed about 250 companies and produced 80% of the cigarettes, plug tobacco, smoking tobacco, and snuff produced in the United States. With Duke's innovation, American Tobacco grew its equity from $25,000,000 to $316,000,000.\n\nAmerican Tobacco Company quickly became known as the “Tobacco Trust” upon its founding. Duke controlled the cigarette market, and his trust caught the attention of legislators in the United States, a country with historical aversion to monopolies.\n\nAmerican Tobacco Company focused solely on making and selling cigarettes, leaving growing of tobacco and retail distribution to independent entrepreneurs. Nonetheless, Duke aimed to eliminate inefficiencies and middlemen through vertical consolidation. The American Tobacco Company began to expand to Great Britain, China, and Japan. The company also maintained an interest in producing other tobacco products in case fads shifted; Duke wanted to be sure that he would be prepared with a multitude of tobacco styles. The Tobacco Trust's international expansion in conjunction with its consolidation of all types of tobacco “ultimately made the Trust so vulnerable to regulation and judicial dissolution”.\n\nThe Sherman Antitrust Act was passed in 1890, and in 1907, the American Tobacco Company was indicted in violation of it. In 1908, when the Department of Justice filed suit against the company, 65 companies and 29 individuals were named in the suit. The Supreme Court ordered the company to dissolve in 1911 on the same day that it ordered the Standard Oil Trust to dissolve. The ruling in \"United States v. American Tobacco Co.\" stated that the combination of the tobacco companies “in and of itself, as well as each and all of the elements composing it whether corporate or individual, whether considered collectively or separately [was] in restraint of trade and an attempt to monopolize, and a monopolization within the first and second sections of the Anti-Trust Act.”\n\nDissolution proved complicated. The American Tobacco Company had combined many prior companies and processes. One department would manage a certain process for the entire organization, producing brands previously owned by other companies. “Plants had been assigned specific products without regard for previous ownership.” Over the course of eight months, a plan for the dissolution, meant to assure competition among the new companies, was negotiated.\n\nThe trust needed to dissolve in such a way that no manufacturer had a monopoly on any type of tobacco product. Investors, holding millions of dollars of securities, also needed to be considered. A large question was how to distribute trademarks and brands between the resulting companies.\n\nThe American Tobacco Company's assets were split off into: American Tobacco Company, the existing R. J. Reynolds, Liggett & Myers, and Lorillard. The monopoly became an oligopoly. The main result of the dissolution of American Tobacco Trust and the creation of these companies was an increase in advertising and promotion in the industry as a form of competition.\n\nLiggett & Myers kept control of these plants: Liggett and Myers, St. Louis; Spaulding and Merrick, Chicago; Allen and Ginter, Richmond; smoking tobacco factory in Chicago; Nall and Williams, Louisville; John Bollman Company, San Francisco; Pinkerton Company, Toledo; W. R. Irby, New Orleans; two cigar factories in Baltimore and Philadelphia, and the Duke-Durham branch of the American Tobacco Company.\n\nP. Lorillard retained the Lorillard properties in addition to S. Anargyos; the Luhrman and Wilburn Tobacco Company; plants in Philadelphia, Wilmington, Brooklyn, Baltimore, and Danville; and the Federal Cigar Company.\n\nAt the same time as the antitrust action in 1911, the company's share in British American Tobacco (BAT) was sold. In 1994, BAT acquired its former parent, American Tobacco Company (though reorganized after antitrust proceedings). This brought the Lucky Strike and Pall Mall brands into BAT's portfolio as part of BAT's American arm, Brown & Williamson. B&W later merged with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in 2004.\n\nAmerican Tobacco left Durham in the late 1980s. Brown & Williamson took over the Reidsville, North Carolina operation in 1995 and closed it, costing 1000 people their jobs, but Commonwealth Brands took it over in a deal completed in October 1996, when the plant had 311 employees, and kept 100 of them. ITG Brands announced November 1, 2018 that the plant would close in 2020.\n\nIn 2004, the previously abandoned American Tobacco Campus (ATC) in Durham was reopened as a complex of offices, shops, and restaurants. Developed by Capitol Broadcasting and reopened as the American Tobacco Historic District, phase 1 consisted of the Fowler, Crowe, Strickland, Reed, and Washington Buildings, and included the construction of two new parking garages and a waterfall feature through the center of the campus designed by Smallwood, Reynolds, Stewart, Stewart of Atlanta, Georgia and constructed by W. P. Law, Inc. based in Lexington, South Carolina. Phase 2, consisting of the remaining buildings and expansion of the water feature at the north end of the site, was under construction as of late 2006. Many office spaces in the ATC are now used by Duke University. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000 as the American Tobacco Company Manufacturing Plant. The nearby Watts and Yuille Warehouses were listed in 1984 and the Smith Warehouse in 1985.\n\nThe American Tobacco Trail, named for the company, is a multi-use rail-trail that begins just south of the Durham complex and runs towards Chatham and Wake Counties. It follows the route of the railroad (Norfolk Southern Railway (former) Durham Branch) that once served the factories, but was later abandoned when these facilities were shut down.\n\nIn the golden age of radio, as well as early television, American Tobacco was known for advertisements featuring a fast-talking tobacco auctioneer named L. A. \"Speed\" Riggs. His rapid-fire and song-like patter would always end with the exclamation, \"SOLD, American!\" Another famous tobacco auctioneer, F. E. Boone, was often heard in tandem with Riggs.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "58846494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58846494", "title": "Andrew Entrican", "text": "Andrew Entrican\n\nAndrew Jack Entrican (1858 – 19 February 1936) was an Irish-born New Zealand businessman and local-body politician. He was twice deputy mayor of Auckland.\n\nEntrican was born in Stoneyfield, County Tyrone, Ireland in 1858 to Robert Entrican, a local farmer, and was educated at Edwards School.\n\nIn 1883 he married Elizabeth Mackay with whom he had one son.\n\nHe began his business career in Derry with a firm of merchants. When he was 21 he emigrated to New Zealand arriving in Auckland in January 1880 on the ship \"Ben Nevis\". After his arrival he became the assistant manager of a retail business owned by Charles Major, later taking it over himself in partnership with Samuel Taylor. This business was dissolved in 1885 and Entrican then became a commission agent. In 1887 he established the firm of A. J. Entrican and Company (later joined by his younger brother) and served as executive manager until his death.\n\nIn 1897 he was elected to the Auckland Harbour Board and the following year to the Auckland City Council. He resigned from the Harbour Board in 1899 but remained on the council until 1918, and again from 1920 until 1935. He served under 10 Mayors, and was deputy to six of them, holding that office for two separate terms for a combined 17 years. A popular councillor he was returned at the top of the City Council poll on three occasions. Entrican returned the Harbour Board in 1907 and remained a member until 1921, serving as chairman between 1910 and 1911.\n\nHe contested the electorate as the Liberal Party candidate in the where he polled third out of three candidates.\n\nHe was also a trustee of the Auckland Savings Bank, a member of the executive of the Auckland Patriotic Association, the Auckland Fire Board, the Auckland and Suburban Drainage Board.\n\nHe died on 19 February 1936 of a stroke.\n"}
{"id": "9316990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9316990", "title": "Andrey Akimov", "text": "Andrey Akimov\n\nAndrey Igorevich Akimov (in , born 1953 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) is the Chairman of the Management Board of Gazprombank (open joint-stock company).\n\nAkimov was born in Leningrad in 1953. He earned his degree from the Moscow Financial Institute in 1975, studying international economics, finance and banking.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1987, Andrey Akimov was employed in Vneshtorgbank at senior positions. From 1985 to 1987, he held a post of Deputy Director General of the Vneshtorgbank branch in Zurich (Switzerland). From 1987 to 1990 he took up a post of Director General of the Soviet-controlled Donau Bank in Vienna (Austria).\n\nFrom January 1991 to November 2002, he was a Managing Director of the financial company IMAG GmbH in Vienna (Austria) as well as a regular advisor to the Chairman of the Management Board of Vneshtorgbank.\n\nIn November 2002, Akimov has taken up a post of the Chairman of the Management Board of the GPB (OJSC).\n\nIn April 2018, the United States imposed sanctions on him and 23 other Russian nationals.\n\nSince December 2006, Akimov is a member of the Novatek Board of Directors. Since June 2011, he is a member of the Gazprom Board of Directors.\n"}
{"id": "4877683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4877683", "title": "Arturo Pellerano Alfau", "text": "Arturo Pellerano Alfau\n\nArturo Joaquín Pellerano Alfau (1864–1935) was a Dominican merchant, publisher, and journalist. He, along with Julian Atiles, founded Listín Diario, the leading newspaper of the Dominican Republic, in 1889. Pellerano tried to maintain the independence of his newspaper through many troubled times. During the US military intervention of 1916-24, he maintained a nationalistic line of constant protest. During Rafael Trujillo's reign, his newspaper office was attacked and he and his family were detained due to his decidedly Anti-Trujillo political views.\n\nHe married twice and had a total of 14 children. His family remained connected with the Diario until it was purchased by Banco Intercontinental in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "26357222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26357222", "title": "Brett Arends", "text": "Brett Arends\n\nBrett Arends, born in Poughkeepsie, New York, is an American writer and journalist. Since 2007, Arends has been a columnist for the \"Wall Street Journal\" (WSJ) and other Dow Jones publications, such as MarketWatch. He was a contributing editor and wrote a weekly column for WSJ's personal finance magazine, \"SmartMoney\", until it closed in 2012. He now writes for the Wall Street Journal's online edition's R.O.I. or Return on Investment, daily.\n\nPrior to joining WSJ, Arends was a columnist and reporter for the \"Boston Herald\" and TheStreet.com, a financial news service. He has also written for \"Private Eye\" and the \"Daily Mail\" in London. He is a former analyst and consultant for the McKinsey & Co., a management consulting firm. He took a \"double first\" in History at Cambridge, and received his master's degree from Oxford University.\n\nIn 2012, Arends received a Best in Business Journalism award from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers (SABEW) for his columns in TheStreet.com. He was also part of a \"Boston Herald\" team that won two SABEW awards in 2006. He has appeared on \"60 Minutes\", \"PBS NewsHour\" with Jim Lehrer, CNBC, MSNBC, CNN, \"The John Batchelor Show\", and many other radio and TV programs.\n\nArends' publications include:\n"}
{"id": "3320853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3320853", "title": "Chemical process", "text": "Chemical process\n\nIn a scientific sense, a chemical process is a method or means of somehow changing one or more chemicals or chemical compounds. Such a chemical process can occur by itself or be caused by an outside force, and involves a chemical reaction of some sort. In an \"engineering\" sense, a chemical process is a method intended to be used in manufacturing or on an industrial scale (see Industrial process) to change the composition of chemical(s) or material(s), usually using technology similar or related to that used in chemical plants or the chemical industry. \n\nNeither of these definitions are exact in the sense that one can always tell definitively what is a chemical process and what is not; they are practical definitions. There is also significant overlap in these two definition variations. Because of the inexactness of the definition, chemists and other scientists use the term \"chemical process\" only in a general sense or in the engineering sense. However, in the \"process (engineering)\" sense, the term \"chemical process\" is used extensively. The rest of the article will cover the engineering type of chemical process. \n\nAlthough this type of chemical process may sometimes involve only one step, often multiple steps, referred to as unit operations, are involved. In a plant, each of the unit operations commonly occur in individual vessels or sections of the plant called units. Often, one or more chemical reactions are involved, but other ways of changing chemical (or material) composition may be used, such as mixing or separation processes. The process steps may be sequential in time or sequential in space along a stream of flowing or moving material; see Chemical plant. For a given amount of a feed (input) material or product (output) material, an expected amount of material can be determined at key steps in the process from empirical data and material balance calculations. These amounts can be scaled up or down to suit the desired capacity or operation of a particular chemical plant built for such a process. More than one chemical plant may use the same chemical process, each plant perhaps at differently scaled capacities. \nChemical processes like distillation and crystallization go back to alchemy in Alexandria, Egypt.\n\nSuch chemical processes can be illustrated generally as block flow diagrams or in more detail as process flow diagrams. Block flow diagrams show the units as blocks and the streams flowing between them as connecting lines with arrowheads to show direction of flow. \n\nIn addition to chemical plants for producing chemicals, chemical processes with similar technology and equipment are also used in oil refining and other refineries, natural gas processing, polymer and pharmaceutical manufacturing, food processing, and water and wastewater treatment.\n\nUnit processing is the basic processing in chemical engineering. Together with unit operations it forms the main principle of the varied chemical industries. Each genre of unit processing follows the same chemical law much as each genre of unit operations follows the same physical law.\n\nChemical engineering unit processing consists of the following important processes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336130", "title": "Chief knowledge officer", "text": "Chief knowledge officer\n\nA chief knowledge officer (CKO) is an organizational leader, responsible for ensuring that the organization maximizes the value it achieves through \"knowledge\". The CKO is responsible for managing intellectual capital and the custodian of Knowledge Management practices in an organization. CKO is not just a relabelling of the title \"chief information officer\" - the CKO role is much broader. CKOs can help an organization maximize the returns on investment in knowledge (people, processes and intellectual capital), exploit their intangible assets (know-how, patents, customer relationships), repeat successes, share best practices, improve innovation, and avoid knowledge loss after organizational restructuring.\n\nCKOs must have skills across a wide variety of areas. They must be good at developing/understanding the big picture, advocacy (articulation, promotion and justification of the knowledge agenda, sometimes against cynicism or even open hostility), project and people management (oversight of a variety of activities, attention to detail, ability to motivate), communications (communicating clearly the knowledge agenda, have good listening skills and be sensitive to organizational opportunities and obstacles), leadership, teamworking, influencing, and interpersonal skills. The CKO who successfully combines these skills is well equipped as an excellent agent of change for their organization.\n\nOther terms for CKO include knowledge manager, director of intellectual capital (e.g. Scandia), director of knowledge transfer (e.g. Buckman Laboratories), and knowledge asset manager (e.g. Dow Chemical).\n\nCKO responsibilities include such things as:\n\nSunassee and Sewry argued that top management needs to create and share a vision for the knowledge management initiative. The vision is the long-term strategy that will drive the knowledge management initiative and provide the scope within which the knowledge management effort and the organization will grow. The vision should also encompass the core beliefs and values of the organization.\n\nThe creation of the vision can be done in two ways. Top management can either appoint a Chief Knowledge Officer (CKO), who will create the vision, or they can create a vision and entrust the CKO to carry it out. It is extremely important at this point that the employees of the organization are allowed to share in the making of vision of the organization. This will create a sense of belonging for the employees, and allow them to participate in the change process. It will also make them accept the change process more readily than if they were not allowed to participate in it.\n\nThe views of the employees in the organisations should be considered and there should be a proper system created to share the views.\n\nSunassee and Sewry proposed a \"knowledge life-cycle\" to create and maintain individual and organizational learning in the organization:\n\n\nThe CKO should actively manage all stages of the \"knowledge life-cycle\", but most importantly encourage people to disseminate knowledge, and to use it. The last step of the cycle involves re-evaluating assumptions held by the organization and using these new assumptions with the knowledge created by the organization to create new knowledge. This process will generate innovative knowledge and allow the organization to produce innovative products and business processes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1176041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176041", "title": "Controlling interest", "text": "Controlling interest\n\nA controlling interest is an ownership interest in a corporation with enough voting stock shares to prevail in any stockholders' motion. A majority of voting shares (over 50%) is always a controlling interest. When a party holds less than the majority of the voting shares, other present circumstances can be considered to determine whether that party is still considered to hold a controlling ownership interest.\n\nIn the United States, Delaware corporations have a 2/3 vote requirement for a motion to pass. In theory, this could mean that a controlling interest would have to be over one third of the voting shares.\n\n"}
{"id": "234835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234835", "title": "Corporate development", "text": "Corporate development\n\nCorporate development refers to the planning and execution of strategies to meet organizational objectives. The kinds of activities falling under corporate development may include management team recruitment, phasing in or out of markets or products, arranging strategic alliances, identifying and acquiring companies (M&A), securing corporate financing, divesting of assets or divisions, and management of intellectual property. The activities encompassed are often the role of the CEO. \n\nCorporate strategy depends on the circumstances of a company and the area where development is desired. Corporate development is usually a process that takes place over an extended period of time and may be adjusted or refined as the project moves forward\n\nOne of the manifestations of corporate development has to do with reshaping the management arm of the corporation. This may involve a process of phasing certain management positions out of the existing structure or creating new positions in an effort to strengthen the management team. As part of this type of approach, corporate development may also demand that one or more current managers are released from the company and replaced with people who possess skills required to move the company forward. When this is the case, the corporate development team will handle the functions of recruitment and evaluation of potential hires.\n\nThe process of corporate development can also be applied to the task of growing the company through mergers and acquisitions. In this scenario, the project development will involve identifying potential target companies for acquisitions or unions resulting in a new and more aggressive corporation. The team will consider all possible outcomes from any given potential merger or acquisition and attempt to project if the action is likely to result in positive growth or could possibly impair the company permanently.\n\nJust as a management team may be revamped, corporate development may also be employed to change the current focus for clients. This may mean looking into the potential for breaking into new markets with existing products or developing complementary products that will allow this type of expansion. Corporate development strategy would monitor the trends associated with a corporation's products or services and helps the corporation establish strategies to find more customers. In addition, corporate development works to maximize the profits of a corporation by figuring out the appropriate pricing for a given good or service. A corporate development team also leads discussions with sales department heads regarding how to market corporate goods, organize marketing campaigns, analyze market research and incorporate any customer advice or complaints into marketing strategies in such cases; extensive industry specific business experience is often preferred which is why companies may hire an external firm to help them engage in such moves.\n\nDepending on the status of the base market, corporate development may also look at shifting away from a shrinking consumer market while seeking market share in a different consumer market with newer products. For example, many typewriter manufacturers during the 1980s and 1990s slowly phased out their core business and began to focus more on computer parts and accessories as a way to continue operations.\n\nParticularly in larger companies, corporate development is provided as a charter for a particular executive or team. In these cases, the opportunities and initiatives are numerous enough to justify specialists, instead of being delegated to the office of the CEO and line of business executives. When focused on product or financial issues, corporate development executives often have MBA, CFA or CPA credentials. Often the internal corporate development executives come from a legal or investment banking background, due to the complex contractual and valuation issues associated with many transactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57275837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57275837", "title": "Deputy Commissioner (Bangladesh)", "text": "Deputy Commissioner (Bangladesh)\n\nDeputy Commissioner (popularly abbreviated to \"DC\") or District Magistrate is a chief administrative and revenue officer of a district or an administrative sub-unit of a division. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure of Bangladesh, the Government shall appoint as many persons as it thinks fit to be Executive Magistrates and shall appoint one of them to be the District Magistrate.\n\nThe term District Magistrate is used in the Criminal procedure code to denote the principal executive magistrate of the district. However, after 1960, the district magistrate term came to be redesignated throughout the country as Deputy Commissioner or DC. During the early year, before Bangladesh era, the deputy commissioner's office used to be concerned with internal security and revenue administration. Over the time, however, the office has become increasingly occupied with the general welfare of the people in the district. The Deputy Commissioner is a representative of the Government in the field of law and order, land administration, disaster management and general and local elections. The deputy commissioner works under the general guidance and supervision of the Divisional Commissioner. They are under the administrative control of the Cabinet Division although their posting and transfer are made by the Ministry of Public Administration. The deputy commissioners are drawn from the members of the Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration).\n"}
{"id": "2159930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2159930", "title": "Edward Clarke Cabot", "text": "Edward Clarke Cabot\n\nEdward Clarke Cabot (August 17, 1818 – January 5, 1901) was an American architect and artist.\n\nCabot's father was Samuel Cabot Jr., a shipping businessman. His mother was Eliza Perkins Cabot. He had six siblings: Thomas Handasyd Cabot (b. 1814), Samuel Cabot III (b. 1815), James Elliot Cabot (b. 1821), Stephen Cabot (b. 1826), Walter Channing Cabot (b. 1829), and Louis Cabot (b. 1837).\n\nCabot designed the Gibson House for widow Catherine Hammond Gibson and her son Charles Hammond Gibson Jr, as well as the new building for the Boston Athenaeum between 1847 and 1849. After the opening of the Boston Athenaeum, he became a leading figure in Boston architectural circles. The Athenaeum was influenced by Charles Barry's Italianate club house in London. He is also noted for producing several distinguished Queen Anne Style houses in the 1870s.\n\nCabot later formed a firm \"Cabot and Chandler\" which built numerous residences in the Back Bay and Boston environs. In 1879, Cabot & Chandler responded to H.H. Richardson's introduction of the Stick Style of Architecture into the U.S. by his Sherman Watts House in Newport, with Cabot's splendid mansion for Elbridge Torrey at 1 Melville Avenue in Dorchester, MA. The same year the firm designed 12 Fairfield Street in Boston's Back Bay for Georgiani Lowell.\n\nIn 1842, Cabot married Martha Eunice Robinson. In 1873, he married Louisa Winslow Sewall. He was the father of football player Norman Winslow Cabot.\n"}
{"id": "29503005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29503005", "title": "Enterprise social networking", "text": "Enterprise social networking\n\nEnterprise social networking focuses on the use of online social networks or social relations among people who share business interests and/or activities. Enterprise social networking is often a facility of enterprise social software (regarded as a primary component of Enterprise 2.0), which is essentially social software used in \"enterprise\" (business/commercial) contexts. It encompasses modifications to corporate intranets (referred to as social intranets) and other classic software platforms used by large companies to organize their communication, collaboration and other aspects of their intranets. Enterprise social networking is also generally thought to include the use of a standard external social networking service to generate visibility for an enterprise.\n\nSocial networking sites started to form in the 1990s; an example of these websites is Theglobe.com, which began in 1995. As other websites such as GeoCities and Tripod.com started to form online communities, they encouraged their users to interact with each other via chat rooms and other tools. They also provided easy-to-use publishing tools along with free web space. Classmates.com’s approach was to link people together via their emails, the website was like a friends search engine.\n\nBusinesses eventually realized that social networking websites could provide a fast and efficient way of marketing. Social media websites are great places for businesses to reach their customers, and the environment can provide a means for growing a business. \nIn 2005, as social networking websites were becoming more and more popular, Myspace had more page views than Google. Myspace was followed by Facebook which started in February 2004.\nWhen Facebook began, users were limited to college students in the United States, who had to use a college email with a .edu extension to join the network. In September 2005 some high schools were allowed to join the network, but they needed an invitation to join. On September 26 of 2006, Facebook announced that anyone around the world older than 13 years old with a valid email would be able to join \nFacebook’s online community. \nIn October 2007, Microsoft purchased a 1.6% share of Facebook. That gave them the right to place international ads on Facebook. In July 2010 it was reported that Facebook had more than 500 million active users. This means that one out of fourteen people around the world is a Facebook user. \nThe growth of Facebook was a boom in the social networking space. Facebook became a huge corporation that had 1400 employees in 2009; their estimated revenue was US$800 million in 2009. In 2010, it was reported that there were more than 200 social networking websites on the web.\n\nMany companies are starting to implement social networks to promote collaboration amongst their employees. Vendors are now starting to use this as a way to help out the different companies. Some companies are starting to teach their employees about cloud computing and SaaS. These new technologies are being added to the enterprise social networks. These networks are being implemented to get employees collaborating and sharing tips and ideas about how to improve the workplace. Some social networks are homegrown systems that are built internally. Companies are using social networks to trade information amongst team members or other people who are part of the company. Sometimes this might also mean trading documents in real time. Based on research by Gartner (2010), 50% of enterprises will be using some sort of social network by 2012.\n\nCompanies such as Jive Software and IBM have recently been doing research to see how social networking can impact enterprise networks. Different companies have embraced social networking and they are creating their own internal social networking sites. IBM is one example and they have created the Beehive research project, based on their Lotus Connections product. Another example is Atos, which is deploying its in house blueKiwi product across all 76,000 employees to achieve its Zero Email ambition by the end of 2013. Many companies are encouraging employees to use their social networks so they can connect with other employees, help people socialize when they take a break, or even help contribute to other work-related issues. Some companies are even joining typical social networking sites like Facebook or MySpace to gain more clients, communicate with their clients, or target individuals based on their likes. These companies want to gain the trust of their clients.\n\nThe year 2009 saw 92% of Inc. 500 companies using at least one social media channel, a dramatic increase over the 77% reported in 2008.\n\nMedpedia is one of about 70 medical wikis that allows physicians and researchers to share information. While the information is free and publicly available, contributions are limited to those provided by medical professionals.\n\nIntellipedia is a set of three wikis used by the US intelligence community to share information of varying classifications.\n\nDeloitte has been a pioneer in its use of the corporate social networking applications for consulting.\n\nBoral Limited was one of the first major building and construction materials companies in Australia to adopt Enterprise Social Networking using the Yammer platform. Engagement levels of over 25% were achieved. Other notable uses include Lockheed Martin and Pfizer as documented by the Queensland University of Technology (QUT).\n\nThe adoption of social networking in sales organizations has recently been given a new name, S2.0 or Sales 2.0. Implementing a private sales social network provides a means to quickly disburse company sales knowledge.\n\nSmart companies are using social media tools to outsource their work to their customers. In addition to using social networking to market the enterprise, companies are involving customers in the design process. Chicago company Threadless invites their customers to submit their T-shirt designs to the Threadless web site for review by other customers. Smart companies are also involving their customers in technical support using enterprise social networking. eBay was an early adopter of the practice of allowing users to assist each other online.\n\nIf training in the use of enterprise social networking tools is not provided to employees who do not have experience using them, they are unlikely to be widely adopted. The use of enterprise social networking must be championed at the highest levels of the enterprise to provide the resources needed and promote adoption throughout the organization. Gartner have said that only 10% of organisations see value in a social collaboration product, primarily due to the lack of change management provided during rollout.\n\nThe lack of adoption is a complex issue with many theories put forward:\n\nThe sharing of information across the enterprise through social networking creates a transparency that may or may not necessarily be welcomed by all sectors of the organization.\n\nThere is often an assumption that social networking will not work well in a particular industry or that its use may be perceived as unprofessional. In addition the ability to justify use of enterprise social networking, based on return on investment is not always readily apparent.\n\nMembers of traditional or conservative organisations perceive social networking as a time wasting tool. However once employees see usage by other employees, they often begin seeing the value and hence engaging and contributing content.\n\nPrivacy issues associated with social networking sites can be seen from many perspectives. Some people will argue that this is just a part of globalization and the growth of technology, while others will still believe that it is a right for any citizen, and will never change their views and perspectives about their privacy. With the increase in popularity of social networking, many users have given up their personal privacy in order to join these networks. Social media privacy issues didn’t begin with social networking sites; they have historically been persistent issues with many other types of social media such as text messaging, instant messaging and computer-supported collaboration work.\n\nOscar Gandy in 1993 claimed that in the age of digital media, people probably do not have any privacy. He stated that “the panoptic sort is an antidemocratic system of control that cannot be transformed because it can serve no purpose other than that for which it was designed — the rationalization and control of human existence.” Gandy demanded creation of an agency that would ensure the survival of privacy.\n\nFrom a policy perspective, according to Schement and Curtis (1994), privacy is seen “as security against intrusion by government”. According to Garfinkel (2000) “Privacy isn’t just about hiding things. It’s about self–possession, autonomy, and integrity.” \n\nBecause social tools make many things that were normally private much more public, including all types of corporate data, many organizations would rather wait for best practices or to see what their peers are doing before delving very far into social networking. Privacy can become a huge issue at the enterprise level, when customer and employee data are at stake. Security concerns must be addressed prior to embarking upon creation of an enterprise social network.\n\nOne of the significant areas of concern with the use of social networking internally within organisations is the impact and effect of behavioral issues. As the interactions within a social network are loosely coupled to business process and structured information systems, the effect of individual personalities and human psychology become more pronounced within social networks. Such emerging concerns cover issues such as attention management, death by trivia, dominant personalities, behavioral adoption and influence strategies.\n"}
{"id": "10826418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10826418", "title": "Executory contract", "text": "Executory contract\n\nAn executory contract is a contract that has not yet been fully performed or fully executed. It is a contract in which both sides still have important performance remaining. However, an obligation to pay money, even if such obligation is material, does not usually make a contract executory. An obligation is material if a breach of contract would result from the failure to satisfy the obligation. A contract that has been fully performed by one party but not by the other party is an executory contract.\n\nIn US bankruptcy law, \"executory contract\" assumes a special meaning, a contract in which continuing obligations exist \"on both sides\" of the contract at the time of the bankruptcy petition. It still requires both debtor and counterparty to make further performance. A trustee or debtor in possession may assume any prepetition executory contract or unexpired lease of the debtor, preserving obligations of both the debtor and the counterparts by the bankruptcy process. If he rejects it, there is a breach of contract as of the date of the petition. Affirmation and rejection are subject to court approval. .\n\nMany installment contracts are commonly executors such as installment credit loans, period loan payments, mortgages, and paychecks.\n\n"}
{"id": "50059281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50059281", "title": "Folorunsho Coker", "text": "Folorunsho Coker\n\nFolorunsho Coker (born July 27, 1965) is a Nigerian socialite, businessman, politician and Director General of Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation since March 2017. He was formerly the managing director of the number plate production authority of State of Lagos and commissioner for tourism, Arts & Culture and Special Adviser Central Business District in Lagos State. \nCoker was the chief executive officer of Brown Restaurant and La Casa Group prior to his appointment as commissioner for tourism, Arts & Culture. \nHe was a jury member for the 2nd edition of the Nigerian Travel Awards (NTA). .\nHe was a jury member for the 2nd edition of the Nigerian Travel Awards (NTA). In 1992, Coker was appointed as personal assistant to Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, He was later appointed as the Managing Director of the Number Plate Production Authority of State of Lagos. In 2014, he was appointed special adviser on the Central Business District of Lagos to Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), then governor of Lagos State.\nAs the DG of NTDC, Coker launched “Tour Nigeria” a project aimed at promoting domestic tourism in Nigeria. Coker also organized “Food Flavor” a festival that showcased Nigerian food and culture and promote the city as a destination for fun, hospitality and relaxation. He initiated the revocation of the NTDC Act of 1992 ( the law that established it) . The new law has been passed to law by the senate awaiting concurrence from Nigerian House of Representatives. Coker led administration at NTDC also partnered Google Nigeria for the digitization of tourism sights and street view with the hope of deepening the positive digital story of Nigerian tourism industry.\nAs Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, in Lagos state, he organized “One Lagos Fiesta” a 5day event held in five different locations in Lagos as a mark of promoting Nigeria culture through music and other form of entertainment. In 2018, with partnership of Kano State Government he initiated the proposed implementation of Kano/Durbar repackaging plan. He also started the repackaging of the Iri ji Yam Festival, Anambra, Ogidi Ijumu Festival, Kogi and Osun-Osogbo Festival, Osun.\nHe started his education at Coroma College Obalende before travelling to UK in 1992 where he attended St. Bees School, Cumbria . He holds bachelor's degree in combined studies, Economic and Geography from Manchester University. He obtained postgraduates degrees in diplomacy. International trade and finance University of Westminster where he finished with distinction. \n\nFolorunsho was born on 27th July 1965 in Ikoyi, Lagos State and his father Chief Folarin Coker popularly known as ‘’Baba eto of Lagos and Yorubaland (Ife)’’ was a former public servant in Lagos State and his mother is Agoro of Idumota. He obtained his first school leaving certificate at Corona School, Ikoyi before he proceeded to St. Gregory's College Obalende where he completed his secondary education. He attended St Bees School, Cumbria, UK in 1982 and holds a bachelor's degree in combined studies, Economics and Geography from Manchester University . He also obtained a post-graduate degree in diplomacy, international trade and finance from the University of Westminster where he finished with distinctions. \nIn 1999, Folorunsho was appointed as personal assistant to senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the former governor of Lagos State and national leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and in 2003, he was appointed Deputy Chief of Staff to the Lagos State Government.He was later appointed as the managing director of the number plate production authority of State of Lagos, a position he held for 10 years. \nIn 2014, he was appointed Special Adviser on the Central Business District of Lagos to Raji Babatunde Fashola (SAN), then governor of Lagos State. On October 19, 2015, Folorunsho was appointed commissioner for tourism, Arts & Culture for Lagos State, a position he held until October 19, 2016. In March 2017, he was appointed Director General of Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation by President MuhammaduBuhari. \nHe was erroneously named the Director General of the National Film and Video Censors Board before it was corrected and announced by Femi Adesina, the special adviser on media and publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari. \n\nIt is a brand launched by Coker Led NTDC administration for the promotion of domestic tourism in Nigeria. The vision of the brand is to build the premier online destination for authentic Nigerian content, using technology, creativity, arts and culture to push the new national agenda. It will showcase the true spirit of Nigeria and tell the visual story of the most populous black nation in the world.” \nCoker launched the project when he became DG of the NTDC, as an initiative to encourage and enhance patronage of the Nigerian tourism industry by locals. \nAccording to Vanguard Newspaper “Folorunsho Coker speaking at the unveiling of the initiative, said it would help shape the narrative of Nigeria as a major destination for tourism, hospitality, arts and entertainment in Africa. Activities are scheduled through the year across different captivating locations, making it easier for citizens to explore the nation’s alluring landscape and nature’s beauty. \nIt is also aimed at creating new channels of tourism markets, increasing spending in the economy and creating more jobs. The initiative also is geared towards the promotion of tourism, taking advantage of Nigeria’s population, wealth, density and its unique culture to improve the sector in the country”.\n\nWhile he was still Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, in Lagos state, Coker and his team organised the One Lagos Fiesta (OLF). The event, which went on for about 5 days and was held in 5 different locations including, Lagos Atlantic, Agege, Ikorodu, Badagry and Epe, was a combination of music and other forms of entertainment. According to the the Nation , The budget of 2 billion Naira was earlier planned for the projected was slashed to N500 million, by Coker and his team, yet over 50 artists, including the Mavin crew, Olamide and Tuface Idibia, performed live at the event.\n\nIn a bid to improve the corporate governance of NTDC, Coker led administration revoked the NTDC Act of 1992 (the law that established it) and enact a new one. The Act has now been passed by the senate and but is presently awaiting concurrence from the House of Reps.\n\nAlso in a bid to put the agency in line with world best practices in the tourism industry, Coker led administration began the digitalization of NTDC by training its staff in collaboration with Google, especially in areas regarding the gathering of data. The partnership is for data capture of tourism sights and street view in the hope of deepening the positive digital story of Nigeria. Google Nigeria is also soon set to commence a training with the organisation on Google tools and Mining Tourism Data.\n\nThis is a food festival organised by the Coker and his team at the NTDC in Abuja to showcase Nigerian food and culture and also promote the city as a destination for fun, hospitality and relaxation. The event with was held in collaboration with the National Institute for Tourism and Hospitality, (NIHOTOUR), under Mrs Chika Balogun.\n\nCoker and his team worked on drafting a preliminary tourism development plan for the rehabilitation of the TigaDam, Kano, the National Park and Zoo, Abuja, KatampeHill, Abuja, Owu Waterfalls, Kwara and Kurra Falls – 64 hectares of land allocated by Plateau State Government now under design.\n\nIt was reported that The Panama Paper named Coker a sole shareholder of BVI, a company that owns a £1.65m townhouse in Kensington and Chelsea. His lawyers has stated that Folorunsho has multiple sources of income and all interest have been declared. \n\nFolorunsho's spouse, Aisha Rimi was rumored to have business dealings with the number plate production authority of Lagos State, during Folorunsho's tenure as managing director of the parastatal. \n\n"}
{"id": "291279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291279", "title": "Harvey Ball", "text": "Harvey Ball\n\nHarvey Ross Ball (July 10, 1921 – April 12, 2001) was an American commercial artist. He is recognized as the designer of a popular smiley graphic picture, which became an enduring and notable international icon. Ball was born and raised in Worcester, Massachusetts by his parents Ernest G Ball and Christine or Kitty Ross Ball. Ball had 5 siblings, three younger by the names of Merrit, Virginia, and Raymond, and two older by the names of Jessie and Ernest Jr. During his time as a student at Worcester South High School, he became an apprentice to a local sign painter, and later attended the Worcester Art Museum School, where he studied fine arts.\n\nBall was based in Asia and the Pacific during World War II and was awarded the Bronze Star for heroism during the Battle of Okinawa. He served 27 years in the National Guard, retired as a full Colonel in 1973 and then served six years in the Army Reserves. He retired as a Brigadier General in 1979. Ball was awarded the Veteran of the Year award from the Worcester Veterans Council in 1999.\n\nAfter World War II, Ball worked for a local advertising firm until he started his own business, Harvey Ball Advertising, in 1959. He designed the smiley in 1963.\n\nThe State Mutual Life Assurance Company of Worcester, Massachusetts (now known as Hanover Insurance) had purchased Guarantee Mutual Company of Ohio. The merger resulted in low employee morale. In an attempt to solve this, Ball was employed in 1963 as a freelance artist, to come up with an image to increase morale. What he created was a smiley face, with one eye bigger than the other. In less than ten minutes, Harvey Ball came up with the simple yet world-changing smiley face. The simplicity of the image brought smiles to the faces of the executives, who paid him $45 for his creation.\n\nThe use of the smiley face became part of the company's friendship campaign whereby State Mutual handed out 100 smiley pins to employees. The aim was to get employees to smile while using the phone and doing other tasks. The buttons became popular, with orders being taken in lots of 10,000. More than 50 million smiley face buttons had been sold by 1971, and the smiley has been described as an international icon.\n\nBall never applied for a trademark or copyright of the smiley and earned just $45 for his work (US $315 in 2010 inflation-adjusted dollars). State Mutual, similarly, did not make any money from the design. Ball's son, Charles, is reported to have said his father never regretted not registering the copyright. Telegram & Gazette reported Charles Ball as saying \"he was not a money-driven guy, he used to say, 'Hey, I can only eat one steak at a time, drive one car at a time.'\"\n\nThe phrase \"Have a happy day\" became associated with the smiley although it was not part of Ball's original design. Philadelphian brothers Bernard and Murray Spain designed and sold products with the phrase and logo in the early 1970s. They trademarked the combination and later changed the phrase to \"Have a nice day\", which itself has become a phrase in everyday use in North America\n\nThe smiley was introduced to France in 1972 as a signal of a good news story in the newspaper \"France Soir\". Frenchman Franklin Loufrani used the image this way and made swift moves to trademark the image. His company now turns over $100 million a year and became embroiled in a copyright dispute with Walmart over the image in the 1990s.\n\nThe BBC broadcast a radio documentary on 4 February 2012 called \"Smiley's People\" that covered the story of the smiley. This is currently available for playback.\n\nOn July 18, 1998, around the 35th anniversary of the design's inception, Ball appeared at That's Entertainment to meet fans and sign smiley pins and art. At this appearance Ball was shown copies of the graphic novel \"Watchmen\" issue #1, which featured a notorious image of a smiley face with a splatter of blood across it. Store Manager Ken Carson was quoted as saying Ball seemed amused to see it on the cover.\n\nA Harvey Ball smiley face can be identified by three distinguishing features: Narrow oval eyes (with the one on the right slightly larger than the one on the left), a bright sunny yellow color, and a mouth that is not a perfect arc, which has been claimed to be similar to a \"Mona Lisa Mouth\". The face has creases at the sides of the mouth, and the mouth is slightly off-center (with the right side a little higher than the left) and the right side of the mouth is a slightly thicker than on the left.\n\nThe World Smile Corporation was founded by Ball in 1999. The Corporation licenses Smileys and organizes World Smile Day. World Smile Day raises money for the Harvey Ball World Smile Foundation, a non-profit charitable trust that supports children's causes. World Smile Day is held on the first Friday of October each year and is a day dedicated to \"good cheer and good works\". The catch phrase for the day is \"Do an act of kindness - help one person smile\".\n\nBall died on April 12, 2001, aged 79, as a result of liver failure following a short illness.\n\nThe land that was owned by the Ball Family, off Granite Street in Worcester, was purchased by the City of Worcester in June 2007, with help from Mass Audubon and a $500,000 grant from the state Executive Office of Environmental Affairs' Division of Conservation Services. This property links Mass Audubon's Broad Meadow Brook Sanctuary with the developing Blackstone River Bikeway. It is now known as the \"Harvey Ball Conservation Area\" and is home to the appropriately named \"Smiley Face Trail\".\n"}
{"id": "22604955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22604955", "title": "Henrik Ekelund", "text": "Henrik Ekelund\n\nHenrik Ekelund is the founder, President and CEO of BTS Group AB, a global consulting firm headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. \n\nHenrik Ekelund graduated from the Stockholm School of Economics in 1978. \n\n"}
{"id": "22978914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22978914", "title": "Iland", "text": "Iland\n\niland Internet Solutions provides hosted cloud infrastructure as a service for production business applications, disaster recovery and business continuity, testing and development, and software as a service enablement for independent software vendors. iland also provides traditional colocation and hybrid cloud solutions. Founded in 1995, iland provides its services from high availability hubs specifically designed for cloud infrastructure in Boston, Washington D.C., Houston, Los Angeles, Dallas, and London. iland is a Premier-level partner in the VMware Service Provider Program (VSPP).\n\niland provides cloud-based disaster recovery and business continuity services. Its solution, the iland Continuity Cloud, includes data replication targets for enterprise data, and standby resources that can be activated during disasters to restore data, application, and business services. Other services include the iland Workforce Cloud that integrates desktop virtualization with a company's overall business continuity and disaster recovery plan, the iland SaaS Cloud that provides a cloud environment specifically for software as a services (SaaS) providers, and the iland Hybrid Cloud that merges virtual cloud and physical colocated servers for custom enterprise configurations. The iland Enterprise Cloud provides a cloud environment for production business systems and iland Replication-as-a-Service (RaaS) provides a data replication service for Dell EqualLogic customers to the iland cloud environment.\n"}
{"id": "10520543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10520543", "title": "Index of auditing-related articles", "text": "Index of auditing-related articles\n\nThis page is a list of auditing topics.\n\nAudit\n\nConfirmation\n-Control risk\n-Correctness\n-Cut-off\n\nDetection risk\n-Due diligence\n-Engagement letter\n\nExistence\n-External audit\n-External auditor\n\nFinancial statement assertions\n\nFraud deterrence\n\nGoing concern\n\nInherent risk\n-Internal audit\n-Internal auditor\n-Internal control\n-International Federation of Accountants\n-International Standards on Auditing\n\nManagement representations\n\nRisk assessment\n\nSampling risk\n-Stocktaking\n"}
{"id": "43371533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43371533", "title": "Indian Sale of Goods Act 1930", "text": "Indian Sale of Goods Act 1930\n\nIndian Sale of Goods Act 1930 is a Mercantile Law. The Sale of Goods Act is a kind of Indian Contract Act. It came into existence on 1 July 1930. It is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the title (ownership) in the goods to the buyer for consideration. It is applicable all over India, except Jammu and Kashmir.\nThe goods are sold from owner to buyer for a certain price and at a given period of time.The name Indian is removed from the act with effect from 23 September 1963 hence the act name is now Sale of Goods act 1930\n\n\" According to section 6 of the Indian sales of goods act, a contract of sales means such contract by which the seller transfer the title or ownership of the goods to the buyer or makes an agreement to transfer it against a fixed price \"\n\n1. Buyer\nA person who buys or agrees to buy goods.Section-2(1)\n2. Seller\nA person who sells or agrees to sell goods.section-2(13)\n\n3. Goods\nEvery kind of movable property other than actionable things and money,includes stocks and share, growing crops and grass and things attached to or forming to a part of land which is agreed to be severed before the sale or under the contract of sale.section-2(7)\n\n4. Existing goods\nGoods which are in existence at the time of contract of sale.section-6\n\n5. Future goods\nGoods which are to be manufactured /produced by seller after making contract of sale.section-2(6)\n\n6. Specific goods\nGoods which are identified & agreed upon at the time of contract of sale has been made..section-6(2)\n\n"}
{"id": "26185765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26185765", "title": "Javier Carballo", "text": "Javier Carballo\n\nJavier Carballo is a Spanish entrepreneur who has developed his professional career mainly in the new technologies and entertainment sectors.\n\nHe was born in Madrid on August 19, 1961 secondary school being Salesianos of Atocha, also in Madrid. In 1985 he graduates in Marketing and Commerce at ESIC Business & Marketing School, and follow different courses at IESE Business School, in Madrid; at École Supérieure des Sciences Économiques et Commerciales-ESSEC, in Paris; and at University of Michigan.\n\nHaving lived in France and in the United States, in 1990 returned to Spain to work in the organization of the Barcelona Olympic Games as Purchasing and Sponsors Director. From 1993 he resides permanently in Madrid though with short professional stays in countries as China and México. Added to his business activity, he participates in philanthropic activities, is visiting professor at ESIC Business & Marketing School and participates in conferences on innovation and entrepreneurship.\n\nPassionate of reading and flying, he is the father of three children.\n\nJavier Carballo founded several companies in the last 14 years. In 1999 creates Loyalt-eCommerce, Internet portal that will become later the professional services website of the company of telecommunications Vodafone.\n\nIn 2004 together with a pool of financial investors founded a company in Madrid to develop a themed park for children called Micropolix. Opened in 1999 by the President of the Community of Madrid Doña Esperanza Aguirre, in its 9400 m2 recreates a real city with all its common occupations (firefighters, police, supermarket, airport, road safety circuit...). There, children aged 5 to 13 years, play grown-up, understanding how society works and learning at the same time universal values such as tolerance and coexistence. The success of the concept was absolute and only two years after its opening the park had already received over 1,5 million visitors. Since then the park has deserved wide praise to its educational merits. Amid the honors received: \"Childhood 2009 Award\"; \"Protagonist of Education 2012 Award\". In 2009 Javier Carballo was awarded with the prestigious \"Best Entrepreneur of the Year\" and in early 2010 he opted to divest from the company to start new challenges.\n\n\nJavier Carballo is a member of Rotary International, the largest and oldest humanitarian service organization in the world with one and half million members spread across hundreds of countries, since 1905 contributing to various projects of social improvement. Among them the best known global project: the so-called Polio-Plus program aimed at total eradication of polio. Since its inception in 1985, Rotarians have helped to make this project reach its goal contributing a total of over 500 million dollars and tens of thousands of volunteer man-hours for the inoculation of more than one billion vaccines to children around world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40259298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40259298", "title": "Jæger Dokk", "text": "Jæger Dokk\n\nJæger Dokk (12 December 1921 – 17 June 2000) was a Norwegian insurance leader. He was born in Aker. He was CEO of the insurance company Samtrygd/Gjensidige from 1958 to 1984. He was decorated Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "51375190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51375190", "title": "KP Technology", "text": "KP Technology\n\nKP Technology Ltd was established in 2000 as an international multidisciplinary engineering, science and technology research company offering services particularly in the research, material, energy, defence, environment, corrosion and medical sectors. It specialises in Kelvin probes, surface photovoltage and air photoemission.\n\nKP Technology specialises in design, design support, research and consultancy. It operates in over 35 countries, with primary bases in Europe and North America. It is based in Wick, in the Scottish Highlands and is recognised as a \"state of the art\" local company.\n\nOriginally formed as a spin off from CEO Prof Iain Baikie research, KP Technology has engaged in scientific research for more than a decade.\n\nKP Technology has an active and successful research lab. It has partnered with Harvard University and MIT, CERN Institute, European Space Agency and the University of St Andrews among others.\n\nThe company has won two Queens Awards and a John Logie Baird Award for Impact through Innovation.\n\nAffiliations:\n\nAffiliation\n\n\nKP Technology developed a NASA Probe.\n\nA motion was passed in the Scottish Parliament congratulating the company.\"That the parliament congratulates business across Scotland and in particular those in the Highlands and Islands who have scooped the Queens Awards for outstanding achievement; notes that KP Technology Ltd of Wick which manufactures and sells Kelvin Probes used to measure Electronic Work Function received an award; notes the firms have significantly increased their export sales over the past few years and are international success storys that are bucking the economic trend across Scotland and the U.K.\"\n"}
{"id": "15715221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15715221", "title": "Latigent", "text": "Latigent\n\nLatigent LLC was an international provider of Business Intelligence, Enterprise RSS, and Call Center Reporting and Analytics software.\n\nLatigent, LLC of Chicago, IL, was founded in 2002, as a privately held and funded company, by Chris Crosby and Jason Kolb, two veterans of the contact center industry. Both founders believed that there was a more efficient way of using the information typically gathered in the contact center to better serve the customer and more profitably serve the enterprise. As a result, the Latigent BlueVue performance management product was born and introduced to the market in 2003.\n\nIn December 2005, Latigent released BlueVue II, a Business Information (BI) suite. Besides reporting functionality and complete data warehousing capabilities, BlueVue II also offered data integration capabilities for performance management.\n\nOn September 27, 2007 Cisco Systems announced a definitive agreement to acquire Latigent LLC.\n\n"}
{"id": "42564069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42564069", "title": "Laura María Garro Sánchez", "text": "Laura María Garro Sánchez\n\nLaura María Garro Sánchez is a Costa Rican educator and a current deputy from Heredia in the Legislative Assembly.\n\nGarro studied business at the National University of Costa Rica. She earned a Master's in business administration from the Autonomous University of Central America.\n\nGarro worked for 25 years in public banking and finance.\n\nGarro is a member of the Citizens' Action Party (PAC for its Spanish initials). She has been a provincial secretary, cantonal president, and party congressional participant.\n\nWhile running for mayor of Puntarenas in 2006 for PAC, Garro said that she wanted to improve tourist infrastructure in Puntarenas. She also wanted to create better opportunities for citizens. She lost the election.\n\nGarro was elected deputy to the Legislative Assembly in 2014. At the time of her election to deputy, Garro was 62 years old. She will serve alongside Henry Mora Jiménez, another PAC member also from Heredia.\n\nShe became second pro-secretary of the Legislative Assembly on 1 May 2014.\n"}
{"id": "10070184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10070184", "title": "Loan agreement", "text": "Loan agreement\n\nA loan agreement is a contract between a borrower and a lender which regulates the mutual promises made by each party. There are many types of loan agreements, including \"facilities agreements,\" \"revolvers,\" \"term loans,\" \"working capital loans.\" Loan agreements are documented via a compilation of the various mutual promises made by the involved parties.\n\nPrior to entering into a loan agreement, the \"borrower\" first makes representations about his affairs surrounding his character, creditworthiness, cashflow, and any collateral that he may have available to pledge as security for a loan. These representations are taken into consideration and the lender then determines under what conditions (terms), if any, they are prepared to advance money.\n\nLoan agreements, like any contract, reflect an \"offer,\" the \"acceptance of the offer,\" \"consideration,\" and can only involve situations that are \"legal\" (a term loan agreement involving heroin drug sales is not \"legal\"). Loan agreements are documented via their commitment letters, agreements that reflect the understandings reached between the involved parties, a promissory note, and a collateral agreement (such as a mortgage or a personal guarantee). Loan agreements offered by regulated banks are different from those that are offered by finance companies in that banks receive a \"banking charter\" granted as a privilege and involving the \"public trust.\"\n\nLoan agreements are usually in written form, but there is no legal reason why a loan agreement cannot be a purely oral contract (although oral agreements are more difficult to enforce).\n\nFor commercial banks and large finance companies, \"loan agreements\" are usually not categorized although \"loan portfolios\" are often broadly characterized into \"personal\" and \"commercial\" loans while the \"commercial\" category is then subdivided into \"industrial\" and \"commercial real estate\" loans. \"Industrial\" loans are those that depend on the cashflow and creditworthiness of the company and the widgets or service that it sells. \"Commercial real estate\" loans are those that repay loans but that depend on the rental revenues paid by tenants who lease space, usually for extended times. More granular categorizations of loan portfolios exist but these are always variations around the larger themes.\n\nThe loan agreements originated by commercial banks, savings banks, finance companies, insurance organizations, and investment banks are very different from each other and all feed a different purpose. \"Commercial banks\" and \"Savings banks,\" because they accept deposits and benefit from FDIC insurance, generate loans that incorporate the concepts of the \"public trust.\" Prior to interstate banking, that \"public trust\" was easily measured by State bank regulators who could see how local deposits were used to fund the working capital needs of local industry and businesses, and the benefits associated with those organization's employment. \"Insurance\" organizations, who collect premiums for providing either life or property/casualty coverage, created their own types of loan agreements. \"Banks\" and \"Insurance\" organizations' loan agreements and documentation standards evolved from their individual cultures and were governed by policies that somehow addressed each organizations liabilities (In the case of \"banks,\" the liquidity needs of their depositors; in the case of insurance organizations, the liquidity needs associated with their expected \"claims\" payments).\n\n\"Investment banks\" create loan agreements that cater to the needs of the investors whose funds they attempt to attract; \"investors\" are always sophisticated and accredited organizations not subject to bank regulatory supervision and the need to cater to the public trust. Investment banking activities are supervised by the SEC and their main focus is on whether the correct or proper disclosures are made to the parties who provide the funds.\n\nTypes of Loans:\n\nCategorizing loan agreements by type of facility, usually results in two primary categories:\n\nWithin these two categories though, there are various subdivisions such as interest-only loans, and balloon payment loans. It is also possible to subcategorize on whether the loan is a secured loan or an unsecured loan, and whether the rate of interest is fixed or floating.\n\nForms of loan agreements vary tremendously from industry to industry, country to country, but characteristically a professionally drafted commercial loan agreement will incorporate the following terms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519828", "title": "Mackay Trophy", "text": "Mackay Trophy\n\nThe Mackay Trophy is awarded yearly by the United States Air Force for the \"most meritorious flight of the year\" by an Air Force person, persons, or organization. The trophy is housed in the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum. The award is administered by the U.S. National Aeronautic Association.\n\nThe award was established on 27 January 1911 by Clarence Mackay, who was then head of the Postal Telegraph-Cable Company and the Commercial Cable Company. Originally, aviators could compete for the trophy annually under rules made each year or the War Department could award the trophy for the most meritorious flight of the year.\n\nThe following is a list of awardees:\n\n"}
{"id": "1343538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343538", "title": "Michael Cudahy (industrialist)", "text": "Michael Cudahy (industrialist)\n\nMichael Cudahy (December 7, 1841 – November 27, 1910) was an American industrialist who, along with two brothers, established the Cudahy Packing Company in 1890.\n\nCudahy was born in Callan, County Kilkenny in 1841 to Patrick and Elizabeth (née Shaw) Cudahy. The family emigrated to the United States in 1849, and eventually settled in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nCudahy dropped out of school at age 14 and found a job working at Layton and Plankinton, Milwaukee, an area meat packing plant. He worked his way up the ranks and eventually became a private meat inspector. By 1869, Cudahy was a manager in charge of the packing house at Plankinton, Armour and Company, which had been established in Milwaukee in 1852. In 1873, he was made partner in Armour and Company.\n\nWith the help of his brothers Edward and Patrick, he established the Cudahy Packing Company in South Omaha, Nebraska in 1890.\n\nBy the late 19th century, Cudahy had become a wealthy man living a comfortable life. He took an interest in Mackinac Island, Michigan as a summer home. He also owned a home in Hubbard's Annex on the island in the late 19th century, which he later sold to his brother Edward. He then went to California in 1897 and traded in real estate to expand his fortune. He returned to Mackinac Island in 1904 and bought , making him one of the largest landowners on Mackinac Island. In 1908, Cudahy sold his share of the Cudahy Meatpacking Company and acquired a 2,800 acre (11 km²) Rancho San Antonio east of Los Angeles, California. He subdivided the ranch and sold it as one acre (4,000 m²) lots. This area was incorporated in 1960 as the City of Cudahy.\n\nCudahy handpicked renowned architect Frederick Wainwright Perkins to fulfill his visions of a West Bluff mansion. Perkins also designed the Governors Mansion on the island. In 1904, construction was completed on his mansion which he named Stonecliffe which was the largest private home on Mackinac Island. It went through a number of owners after Cudahy's death in 1910. In 1970, Stonecliffe was purchased by an entrepreneur named George Staffan who converted the mansion and associated buildings into a first class resort hotel called The Inn at Stonecliffe in which capacity it continues to function to this day.\n\nIn 1866, Cudahy married Catharine Sullivan. The couple had seven children, four boys and three girls.\n\nOn November 27, 1910, Cudahy died of double pneumonia at a Chicago hospital. He is buried in Calvary Cemetery in Evanston, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "50032522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50032522", "title": "Monmouthshire and South Wales Coal Owners' Association", "text": "Monmouthshire and South Wales Coal Owners' Association\n\nThe Monmouthshire and South Wales Coal Owners' Association (MSWCOA) was an association of mine owners in South Wales that was active between 1873 and 1955.\nIt fought wage increases, safety regulations, unionisation and other changes that would cut into profits. \nIt managed to link miners wages, which were based on piece-work, to the price of coal.\nIt was involved in various labour disputes, including a lengthy strike in 1926. \nThe coal mines became unprofitable in the 1930s, and were nationalized in 1947, making the association irrelevant.\n\nThe Coal Owners Association has its origins in the Aberdare Steam Collieries Association, founded in 1864.\nIn 1870 this association was restructured and renamed the South Wales Steam Collieries Association.\nIt joined with the Iron Masters in 1873, taking the name of Monmouthshire and South Wales Collieries Association.\nIn 1880 the association was restructured again.\nIn 1890 it took its final name, the Monmouthshire and South Wales Coal Owners Association.\n\nThe executives of the Coal Owners Association included a chairman, vice chairman and secretary.\nSecretaries included Alexander Dalziel (1874–84), W. Gascoyne Dalziel (1884–1916), Finlay A. Gibson (1916–46) and Iestyn R. Williams (1947–50). \nEach of the three districts of Cardiff, Newport and Swansea had a chairman and vice-chairman.\nThere was a chairman of the Sliding-Scale committee, a chairman of the Finance committee and a solicitor. Other committees were the Conciliation Board, District Boards, Commercial Committee, Disputes Committee and Coal Cutters and Conveyers Committee.\nAt meetings of the association and district boards, each member in good standing had votes weighted depending on their mines' assured tonnage. Membership fees were also based on assured tonnage, so the larger owners paid more and had a greater say in decisions.\n\nThe Coal Owners Association represented the owners of the mines so they could present a common front when dealing with the miners and could resist wage increases.\nIt also represented the owners in court cases resulting from labour disputes, and presented the owners' views on proposed legislation.\nThe association was strongly opposed to safety legislation, working hours reductions and recognition of trade unions, and this resulted in a series a labour disputes.\nThe members agreed to observe contracts made by the Association with workmen regarding their wages and employment conditions.\nThey agreed not to hire workmen from another colliery during a strike at that colliery.\nThe association defined the \"Sliding Scale\", an arrangement that regulated all coal mining wages based on the price of coal.\nDifferent sliding scales were defined in 1875, 1880, 1882, 1890 and 1892. \nThe scale of 1 January 1892 was agreed by representatives of the Coal Owners Association and delegates representing the colliery workmen other than engine men, stokers and outside fitters.\nThe principle was that wages were based on the rates actually paid by the collieries under the December 1879 agreement, with a percentage increase or decrease based on the selling price of coal. \nThis price was determined every two months as the average net selling price of coal delivered free on board at the docks of Cardiff, Newport, Swansea and Barry.\nThe hewers received piece rates based on the net weight of coal extracted after eliminating small coal, paid every two weeks.\nThe Sliding-Scale committee had to mediate constant disputes over wages between members.\n\"The Times\" of 29 December 1891 described the Association as follows,\n\nThe \"Times\" went on to describe that the men were fully aware of the huge resources of the mineowner, backed up by the Association, and also that if they worked at a colliery immediately before a strike they would not be employed by any of the Association members. \nThe sliding scale was used to force both coalowners and workers to accept standard wages. \nIf a worker refused, he would not find work in any of the Association's collieries.\n\nThe driving force behind creation of the Association was William Thomas Lewis (1837–1914), one of the largest colliery owners, who also owned most of the Cardiff Docks and many other enterprises. \nSidney Webb described him in the 1890s as \"the best-hated man\" among Welsh workers.\nLewis was the architect of the sliding scale agreement, introduced in 1875.\nThe arrangement was unstable.\nIn 1892 concern was expressed that the sliding scale, which had raised the men's wages by 60%, might be terminated by December, affecting 80,000 men in 200 collieries.\nIn August–September 1893 the South Wales coal workers went on strike over a 25% wage reduction caused by the sliding scale linked to a fall in the price of coal.\nThe strike seemed to be collapsing by 31 August 1893, when it was estimated that 60,000 miners were working, more than half the total.\nThat day the Emergency Committee of the Coal Owners' Association published a statement saying collieries producing half the assured output of the Association were at work.\n\nWith coal prices falling from the mid-1890s, D.A. Thomas campaigned for a cooperative organization that would treat the South Wales coalfield as a single enterprise, and would regulate production and prices. Although owners who controlled 79.3% of output were willing to adopt Thomas's plan, as chairman of the Coal Owners Association Lewis ensured that it was rejected in 1896.\nThe Welsh coal strike of 1898 began as an attempt by the colliers to remove the sliding scale. The strike quickly turned into a disastrous lockout which lasted for six months.\nIn the end the sliding scale stayed in place.\nAfter the strike the South Wales Miners' Federation (SWMF) was founded in October 1898, with William Abraham (Mabon) as the first president.\nIn 1889 the SWFM joined the newly formed Miners' Federation of Great Britain based in Newport, Wales.\n\nIn 1907 the Association represented 80% of the output of the South Wales Coal Field, which then had 588 mines in operation and employed about 174,000 workmen.\n\nThe Eight Hours Day Act of 1908 limited working hours to eight hours, but since it excluding winding times the average bank-to-bank hours in the UK were in fact eight hours and thirty nine minutes.\nThe Coal Owners' Association published figures for many of the South Wales collieries that showed that bank-to-bank hours had been reduced from nine and a half to eight and a half hours.\nTo partially offet the reduction, meal times had been cut by ten minutes.\nThe 1908 Act allowed for an additional 60 hours to be worked annually over and above the eight hours daily, and the owners insisted on these hours being worked.\n\nThere was a strike in 1912 where the Coal Owners Association wanted troops sent into the Rhondda valley to suppress the disturbances.\nSir Charles Edward Troup (1857–1941) of the Home Office was reluctant to comply.\n\nDuring World War I (1914–18) the Admiralty requisitioned coal throughout the war at the price that it chose.\nCoal for domestic use was regulated from July 1915 by the Coal Prices Limitation Act.\nDuring labour negotiations in 1916 the owners found themselves forced to retreat from selling prices as the key factor in setting wages towards one in which profit became the main consideration.\nIn May 1919 the former chairman of the Association, Hugh Bramwell, told a Coal Industry Commission hearing, \nThe State took control of the South Wales coal industry in November 1916, halting discussion of profit sharing and joint consultation as ways to solve the industry problems, although these would re-emerge after the war.\n\nFollowing World War I (1914–18) there was discussion about the possibility of the mines being nationalized. \nSome of the owners were open to this if they could get sufficient compensation. \nEvan Williams, chairman of the MSWCOA and soon to become president of the Mining Association of Great Britain (MAGB), told the MSWCOA that there would inevitably be some change in structure, and \"there are certain owners who think it would be advisable to accept Nationalisation. There is, to an extent, an amount of justification for this, but it must be remembered that it is not in the Nation's interests, as well as the Owner's interests, that this should be resorted to.\"\n\nIn 1921 there was a three-month lockout in the UK coal industry in response to wage reductions that were as high as 49% for labourers in South Wales.\nHugh Clegg wrote in 1985, \"The lockout ... became a fight to the finish, to be settled, if not by actual starvation, by the expenditure of all personal resources, the exhaustion of every source of credit, and the hunger of wives and children.\" The miners completely failed to obtain their objectives.\n\nThe South Wales miners were involved in the General Strike of 1926, and the miners did not accept the settlement in May 1926.\nHowever there were large stocks of coal in the country, and imports from the USA and Europe started arriving in July 1926.\nThe strong community spirit in South Wales meant that miners there held out longer than elsewhere in the United Kingdom, since it was \"social suicide\" to return to work.\nMiners began to trickle back to work in October, and in growing numbers in November, although until the strike ended there were no more than 38,000 miners working in South Wales out of a total of 250,000.\nOn 19 November 1926 the Miners' Federation of Great Britain accepted defeat and allowed the opening of district negotiations. \nOn 30 November 1926 the South Wales Miners' Federation executive council met the Coal Owners Association and agreed to order an immediate return to work.\n\nBy the mid-1920s it was clear that the coal industry was in long-term decline.\nIn 1927 the Coal Owners Association accepted that wages could not be further lowered and other approaches must be tried such as production quotas to manage prices.\n25% of the work force was wholly or temporarily out of work by June 1928.\n\nUntil the mid-1930s the somewhat isolated anthracite mining district in rural West Glamorgan, Brecon and Carmarthen was not covered by the MSWCOA policies, but the pits in this region had many strikes. \nThe owners here were criticized by other coalowners for failing to apply tougher policies such as reprisal, extended lay-offs and prosecution of unofficial strikers.\n\nCompensation for growing numbers of certified silicosis cases was causing severe financial problems at some coal companies by the late 1930s.\nIn 1937 the MSWCOA set up a Coal Dust Research Committee to investigate dust-induced respiratory disease.\nThe committee pioneered ways of sampling mine dust, but at the time there was no device capable of accurately sampling dust in the mines.\nThe committee understood that the main cause of health problems was dust particles less than 5 microns in diameter, but thought silica dust was the main threat, rather than coal dust, and therefore argued that protection was only needed for men exposed to silica dust.\nThe chairman of the MSWCOA stated,\n\nThe MSWCOA became less relevant after the coal mines were nationalized in 1947 and placed under the National Coal Board.\nThe association ceased activity in 1955.\nThe records of the Coal Owners Association are now held by the National Library of Wales, and provide a valuable source of information on the history of coal mining and industrial relations in the South Wales coalfields.\nTwo volumes of surveys by Alexander Dalziel, an early secretary of the association, include reports and personal observations on many aspects of mining including underground workings, lamp lighting, ventilation, wages payment, colliery management, miners' housing and stable arrangements at pits.\n\n"}
{"id": "49275127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49275127", "title": "National Service Products Organization", "text": "National Service Products Organization\n\nThe National Service Products Organization (NSPO) manufactures military and civilian products and provide contracting services.\n\nIt is subordinate to the Egyptian Ministry of Defense system, was its establishment in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 32 of 1979 under President Anwar Sadat, and describes a device aimed at the \"achievement of relative self-sufficiency of the main needs of the armed forces to ease the burden of management of the burden of the state with the introduction of excess production capacities in the local market and help in state economic development projects through a sophisticated industrial base productivity.\n"}
{"id": "48602250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48602250", "title": "Oliver Harriman Jr.", "text": "Oliver Harriman Jr.\n\nOliver Harriman Jr. (1862–1940) was an American heir and stockbroker.\n\nOliver Harriman Jr. was born on November 29, 1862 in New York City. His father, Oliver Harriman, was a dry goods businessman. His mother was Laura Low. He had four brothers and three sisters.\n\nHarriman attended Princeton University, where he was a member of the Ivy Club, and graduated in 1883.\n\nHarriman started his career at Winslow, Lanier & Co., an investment firm in New York City, where he worked from 1883 to 1888. He became a partner in Harriman & Co. in 1888.\n\nHarriman served on the Board of Directors of the Continental Trust Company of New York.\n\nHarriman married Grace Carley of Louisville, Kentucky on January 28, 1891. They had three sons, including Oliver Carley Harriman. They resided at 70 Park Avenue on the island of Manhattan in New York City, and they summered in White Plains, New York. They also owned a residence in Silver Spring, Maryland.\n\nHarriman served in the National Guard of New York from 1888 onward. He was a member of the University Club of New York, the Metropolitan Club, the Knickerbocker Club, the New York Yacht Club, and the Westchester Country Club.\n\nHis wife became a philanthropist, serving as president of the National Conference on Legalizing Lotteries and the Camp Fire Girls. Additionally, she joined the Southern Women's Democratic Club. Her miniature portrait was done by Meave Thompson Gedney circa 1900 for art collector Peter Marié.\n\nHarriman died on August 14, 1940 in Silver Spring, Maryland. His funeral was held in White Plains, New York, where he was buried. His widow died a decade later, on March 28, 1950.\n"}
{"id": "11727753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11727753", "title": "Patricia Santo Tomas", "text": "Patricia Santo Tomas\n\nPatricia Aragon Santo Tomas is the Chairman of the Board of Development Bank of the Philippines since 2006.\n\nShe has been a Secretary of Labor and Employment and Chairwoman of the Philippine Civil Service Commission for several years.\n\nPatricia Aragon Santo Tomas graduated from Kamuning Elementary School and Quirino High School, both in Quezon City, Philippines. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Far Eastern University, her Master of Science from the University of the Philippines Los Baños, and her Master of Public Administration from the John F. Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University.\n\nPatricia Aragon Santo Tomas first worked in the government as a clerk at the Philippine Senate from 1964 to 1966. She gradually rose from the ranks and was transferred from one agency to another until her appointment as Chief of the Manpower Development and Utilization Division in the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) until 1977.\n\nSanto Tomas held other positions as policymaker until her appointment as Administrator of the Philippine Overseas Employment Agency (POEA) from May 1982 to September 1987. She was appointed Assistant Secretary at the Department of Education, and was shortly re-appointed at the DOLE.\n\nIn March 1988, she was appointed Chairperson of the Civil Service Commission (CSC) until March 1995. The CSC is the central personnel agency of the government of the Philippines.\n\nIn 2001, she led an Executive Search Committee tasked to find qualified professionals to man key positions in the Cabinet and attached agencies of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. Soon, she was appointed by President Arroyo as Secretary of the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE).\n\nSanto Tomas was elected as Chairperson of the Governing Body of the International Labour Organization based in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nIn 2006, Santo Tomas was appointed by President Arroyo as Chair of the Board of Directors of the Development Bank of the Philippines, a state-owned financial institution with a nationwide branch office network.\n\nSanto Tomas has received numerous professional awards for government service and public leadership. She was a Ten Outstanding Women in the Nation's Service Awardee for Public Administration; an Outstanding Graduate of the Career Executive Service Development Program Phase 2; an Edward S. Mason Fellow at John F. Kennedy School of Government; a Harvard University Fellow; a Grantee of the United States International Visitor Program, and the United States International Communication Agency.\n\nSanto Tomas is a Professorial Lecturer at the University of the Philippines Los Baños and a Consultant at the Communication Technology for Rural Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "32473729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32473729", "title": "Paul Campbell (entrepreneur)", "text": "Paul Campbell (entrepreneur)\n\nPaul Andrew Campbell (born 1959) is a British entrepreneur and musician. He is the founder of amazing, the digital media brand, and CEO of Amazing Media, operator of amazingtunes.com and Amazing Radio.\n\nCampbell was born in north-east England and educated at RGS Newcastle and New College, Oxford, where he read English Literature.\n\nCampbell started his media career as a BBC General Trainee in 1980. He became a Producer of File on 4, the BBC Radio 4 current affairs programme, in 1982. After producing BBC Television programmes such as Russell Harty and Brass Tacks, he left the BBC to freelance as a TV Producer with Diverse Production and then Zenith Productions in 1987.\n\nIn 1989 he founded Bell Television, a London-based television production company which made programmes for Sky Television and Channel 4. Bell diversified into radio, commercials, corporate films and new media, building its first website for The Barbican Centre in 1992. It was an early adopter of desktop digital production techniques to deliver content across multiple platforms.\n\nDuring the dot-com bubble Bell focused entirely on new media, working for clients such as Granada Television, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and UBS Warburg from offices in Carnaby Street, London and New York. In 2002 Campbell re-located to north-east England and co-founded Liberty Bell Productions (the TV company which produces Grumpy Old Men for the BBC) with former ITV CEO Stuart Prebble and The Tube creator Andrea Wonfor. In 2003 he founded 'amazing'.\n\namazing started life as an educational software company, producer of the study website Amazing Grades and other online products for 14–19-year-old students. Amazing Grades was designed to speed the process of using the internet for students, combining web search results with expert input from teachers at leading British schools in both the private and state-maintained sector.\n\nIn 2005, looking for ways to extend the amazing brand, Campbell conceived the idea of amazingtunes.com while reading a biography of Steve Jobs. The concept combined his digital media and music experience and was designed to re-shape the music industry with an ethical business model which rewarded musicians fairly for their work. 'amazingtunes.com' launched as a beta website in 2006. In 2007 it was spun off as a separate company, The Amazing Media Group. In 2009 Amazing Radio launched, a national digital station broadcasting 100% new music drawn from amazingtunes.com. In 2010 it launched Amazing Instore, delivering new music to shops and business premises, and The Amazing Chart, an unsigned chart published weekly by the European music industry journal Music Week.\n\nCampbell has performed as a freelance professional musician for most of his life, playing timpani, percussion and drums. He started studying aged 9, gave his professional debut aged 11 and by age 21 had played in The Royal Albert Hall, Royal Festival Hall, The Marquee Club and BBC Maida Vale Studios. He now freelances part-time as a timpanist with Northern Sinfonia and other professional orchestras and plays jazz and rock drums for pleasure. He also plays the piano.\n\nCampbell has an MA from Oxford University, is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and in 2011 was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Business Administration by Sunderland University.\n\nHe won the Broadcasting Press Guild Award for 'outstanding radio programme' in 1984 for File on 4 and has other creative awards in a variety of electronic media, including three New York Film Festival Awards and a Communication Achievement Award for 'Excellence in the Use of Video'.\n\nCampbell is a member of the British Association of Snowsport Instructors, having taught skiing in the European Alps before his marriage. He is a Governor of Royal Grammar School, Newcastle, a Governor of Sunderland University\nand a founder member and Director of The Entrepreneurs' Forum, a networking association for British entrepreneurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "643553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643553", "title": "Porto Digital", "text": "Porto Digital\n\nPorto Digital is an initiative in Recife, Brazil to foster technological innovation in the northern region of Brazil. It began in July 2000 on the island called Old Recife, where the port was located from the time of the 17th century Dutch occupation of the area. Recife is the capital of the state of Pernambuco in the Northeast region of Brazil. The Porto Digital has grown steadily since 2000, reporting 240 technology companies and 500 entrepreneurs within the zone, and another 150 similar companies in Recife but not on the island by 2014.\n\nPorto Digital was created in Recife in July 2000 as a result of a joint effort of the Pernambuco state government, private sector and the Inter-American Development Bank(IDB). Most of the funding for the creation of the Porto Digital Science Park came from the privatization of CELPE, the state’s electricity company. The companies and incubators that form the Science Park are mostly housed in buildings most of which warehoused sugar in colonial times, on the island that is known as Old Recife. The city is the ninth largest in the country.\n\nPorto Digital hosts C.E.S.A.R., the most innovative R&D institute of Brazil, according to a Federal Government assessment in 2004. The Science Park was evaluated as the largest of Brazil in 2005 by AT Kearney and won in 2007 the prize of the best Brazilian Science Park, given by the Brazilian Association of Science Parks and Business Incubators (ANPROTEC). It was described in 2013 as a coordinated effort between the federal and state governments, becoming an economic keystone in Pernambuco state since its start in 2000.\n\nThe local and federal government do not directly pool resources in order to invest in the park, they offer however a certain amount of fiscal incentives to its companies. The biggest ones are a discount of up to 60 per cent on the ISS, a sort of municipal services tax and the \"Lei de Informática\" (Leis 8.248/91, 10.176/01 e 11.077/04) which concedes reduction of the IPI taxes for companies which develop hardware and automation solutions. In a country with one of the world’s most onerous tax systems, fiscal incentives are a game changing and decisive factor for the success of a tech hub in the region. The incentives are not only tax reductions but also labor incentives: by reducing bureaucracy and costs involved in the process of hiring new workforce.\n\nThe lack of real government funding for the tech hub is mainly due to lack of long-term planning strategy to foster the technological sector of the region. A program similar to Ohio’s Third Frontier could not only benefit the region but the whole country. Ohio’s Third Frontier showed an unprecedented large scope of financial support at different key sectors of Ohio’s economy. The public sector dollars are very important in creating momentum in a very short amount of time, which would not necessarily happen so fast with exclusive private sector rounds of investment. Two key aspects of the Third Frontier program are the outside match requirement (government funds must be matched by another funding source). The second factor in the process is the validation and recommendation options for allocation of resources. This work alongside the private sector produces high standards of professionalism and transparency in the process.\n\nThird Frontier has also been able to measure its success through metrics such as job creation and the increase in productivity and quality in existing jobs. The most similar program to Ohio’s Third Frontier is the Start-up Brasil program implemented by the Brazilian federal government. Start-up Brasil was created by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI) - in order to provide support to emerging technology-based companies and to strengthen their connection to accelerators. The funds made available by the federal government for the program allow up to R$200,000 in direct investment for selected startups.\n\nStart-up Brasil focus on domestic companies, that have been incorporated for less than four years. International companies can also apply for the program as long as they incorporate in Brazil within a certain time frame.\n\nThe accelerators act as third party evaluators by selecting and mentoring startups for the program; there is no outside match requirement, that is, government funds do not have to be matched by another funding source.\n\nBusiness incubator and innovation center Recife Center for Advanced Studies and Systems (C.E.S.A.R) is the largest business of Porto Digital and works as a flagship company of the technological park. One of the reasons for the success of the Digital Port is the high-skilled workforce delivered by the Center of Informatics (CIn) of the Federal University of Pernambuco, (UFPE). Sergio Cavalcante, CEO of C.E.S.A.R is also a professor at CIn, which shows a healthy and close relationship between industry and academy. An entrepreneurial spirit is also cultivated in the university through an “Entrepreneurship Project” Course “Projetao”, which helps students develop innovative ideas and turn them into products. Many of the products developed on this course grew to be real products sold by real startups. One success story is that of In Loco Media (previously UBee) which developed an accurate indoors location app. The company offers a mobile Ad-network powered by its indoor location technology and boasts to be the largest Brazilian mobile advertising company. Porto Digital is a research development center for international clients like Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. \n\nThe strategy of Porto Digital includes 10 year plans. Its vision and main objective is to be the best environment in the country for disruptive innovation and entrepreneurship on IT related areas and also on creative industries. Porto Digital intends to be a vital asset for the economical development of the state of Pernambuco and to be an anchor for the sustainable development of the region. The first strategic goal is to have, by 2020, 20,000 professionals employed and the aggregated value of 400 innovative enterprises. To achieve these goals, Porto Digital develops 40 articulated projects on 6 strategic areas:\n\n1. Increase the capacity of Porto Digital to attract new investments and to strengthen the competitiveness of the businesses installed on the technological park;\n\n2. Integration of the Porto Digital with other sectors of the economy which lack appropriate technological support;\n\n3. National expansion and internationalization of Porto Digital;\n\n4. Strengthening of the image and brand of the technological park;\n\n5. Actions to promote social, economic and environmental susteinability;\n\n6. Strengthening of the technical and managerial capabilities of the Porto Digital.\n\nIn 2014, Porto Digital included 500 entrepreneurs and 240 institutions, with another 150 related companies located in Recife but not in the Porto Digital zone.\n\nThe private organization responsible for running Porto Digital is a non-profit organization called the Porto Digital Management Unit (NGPD) and was entrusted by the government to be a flexible option to govern the technological park. NGPD not only runs Porto Digital but also tries to forge ties with other institutions which also promote social and economic development in the region.\n\nIts management structure is based on an Administrative Council, with 18 members. These members represent the firms installed in the park, other companies with ties to the Porto Digital, the state government, UFPE university and Recife City Hall.\nIt is the Council’s responsibility to decide policies and strategies which enable and promote Porto Digital’s development. \nThe Council has the freedom to appoint a board of directors of the NGPD comprising a president, a director of innovation and business competition and an executive officer. The NGPD’s permanent technical staff members all have degrees in fields related to innovation, information technology, project management, urban planning, etc.\n"}
{"id": "56026006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56026006", "title": "Rahim (rapper)", "text": "Rahim (rapper)\n\nSebastian Salbert better known as Rahim (born November 17, 1978 in Katowice) is a Polish rapper, producer and entrepreneur. He is the owner of record company MaxFloRec, the former member of groups such as 3xKlan, MZD, Erka and Paktofonika. Since 2003 He has been the one half of a duo Pokahontaz which he creates with Fokus. He has released several albums under his alter ego Straho.\n\nIn 2001 he, along with his then group Paktofonika, received the Polish music award Fryderyk in \"Album of the year - hip-hop\" category for their album \"Kinematografia\". In 2011, magazine Machina classified him at number 25 on list of \"30 best Polish rappers\".\n\nHe has a younger brother, Minx, who is a beatboxer and won Polish championship in beatbox in 2007.\n\nSebastian Salbert was born on November 17, 1978 in Katowice, where he spent his early childhood. He moved out to Mikołów with his family later where he lives to this day. He began to be active as an artist in 1994 when he, along with Maczo, B.U.C and DJ Bambus, formed a group 3xKlan. In 1996, he produced two track for Kaliber 44's debut album \"Księga Tajemnicza. Prolog\" and rapped on a track \"Psychodela\". A year later, in 1997, 3xKlan released their debut and the only album \"Dom pełen drzwi\" which stylistically and lyrically was similar to Kaliber's debut. A few tracks from the album such as \"Pozytywka\" and \"Łza wyobraźni\" gained some popularity in Poland, peaking at Szczecińska Lista Przebojów chart. The album was also nominated for the Fryderyk award in category \"Album of the year – rap & hip-hop\". Subsequently, he was a part of short-lived projects eRKa and MZD.\n\nIn 1998, after the dissolution of 3xKlan, Rahim contacted with two rappers from Katowice: Magik and Fokus, and after a short period of time they created a new group Paktofonika. In April 2000, the group signed a contract with Gigant Records. On 18 December 2000, the debut album \"Kinematografia\" was released. Eight days after the release, Magik committed suicide by jumping out of the window. One year after the release of \"Kinematografia\", Rahim decided to co-produce the album \"Zawieszeni w czasie i przestrzeni\" of side-project Pijani Powietrzem. The album was finally released on 2002. On September 2002, Paktofonika's second and final studio album \"Archiwum kinematografii\", containing old Magik's verses, was released. Meanwhile, he was working on his studio album \"Experyment: PSYHO\" which eventually was released on November 17, 2002 under his alter ego name Straho.\n\nIn 2003, Paktofonika performed their last show at Spodek in Katowice and on the same day Rahim, along with Fokus and DJ Bambus, announced the start of the group Pokahontaz. In 2004 he founded his own record label MaxFloRec which is the continuation of MaxFloStudio which was opened in 1998. In April 2005, the group released their first studio album \"Receptura\". The album was promoted with singles \"Wstrząs dla mas\", \"Nie1\", and \"Cyfroni\" and it debuted at number 3 on Polish OLiS chart. In 2006 he produced the debut album \"Miraż\" for hip-hop group Projektor. \n\nOn 2007, Rahim started collaborating with L.U.C, an alternative hip hop and nu jazz artist, and on October 19, 2007 they released their joint album \"Homoxymoronomatura\". The album was promoted with singles \"Hemoglobina\" and \"Nibyminipocieszne Psychomarionety\". On November, the same year, Rahim released, as previously under his nickname Straho, his second studio album \"DynamoL\". The album features guest appearances from rappers like Abradab, Grubson and the group Projektor.\n\nA year later, he performed in a play \"Szepty\", directed by Jack Burban at Polish Theatre in Wrocław. In the same year, he released \"Homoxymoronomatura Live\" - a live version of \"Homoxymoronomatura\". In 2010, Rahim released his first debut studio album under his normal pseudonym. The album, titled \"Podróże po amplitudzie\", was finally released on March 5, 2010. On December 6, 2010, a remix album of the album, titled \"Amplifikacja\" was released. The remixes were produced by producers such as: O.S.T.R, DiNO, Vixen and others.\n\nOn 2012, Rahim, along with Fokus, were focused on working on \"Jesteś Bogiem\", a movie, directed by Leszek Dawid, which tells a story of Paktofonika. The movie was released on September 21, 2012 and received highly positive reviews. On October 19, Pokahontaz released their second studio album \"Rekontakt\" which debuted at number 2 on Polish OLiS chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "27924040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27924040", "title": "Recaredo Santos Tornero", "text": "Recaredo Santos Tornero\n\nRecaredo Santos Tornero Olmos (October 14, 1842 – July 26, 1902) was a Chilean editor, journalist and director of \"El Mercurio de Valparaíso\" and founder of \"El Comercio\".\n\nTornero was born in Valparaíso, on October 14, 1842. His parents were Carmen Olmos de Aguilera Orrego, and Spanish immigrant José Santos Tornero Monteros, the proprietary of the first public library in Chile. He studied in the National Institute of Santiago, and he later went to France to study on the Ecole Superieure de Commerce de Paris. He returned to Chile in 1860, and he succeeded his father as director of \"El Mercurio de Valparaíso\" in 1866. He married Elena Stuven Olmos, and they had 4 children: Carmela, Recaredo, Teresa and Enrique.\n\nHis father's enterprises included the Spanish Library (), the printing house of \"El Mercurio\" and the Valparaíso newspaper of the same name. They remained in the family for 33 years. In 1866, Tornero and his brother Orestes bought the enterprise from their father.\n\nOrestes maintained the library and its dependencies, while Recaredo continued administering the printing house and the newspaper. Later, they formed Tornero & Sons Society () with his father, who was living in outside Chile.\n\nSince 1867, Tornero was the only editor of \"El Mercurio de Valparaíso\" until 1870, when he partnered with Camilo Letelier. Blanco Cuartín assumed as main editor of the newspaper later; who proposed a cultural and literary-scoped topic.\n\nHe published \"Chile Ilustrado\" in 1872, the first illustrated album of Chile, with a descriptive guide, historic, politic, industrial, social and statistical review of the country and a rich graphic backup, with more than 200 wood engravings and 10 lithographs. He was awarded for this book on 1876 Philadelphia Exposition.\n\nAfter 9 years as director, he sold his part of the newspaper to Camilo Letelier. He revisited Europe in 1877, where he stayed until 1880. He bought machinery in Europe to create the first paper factory in Chile, after which he began publishing foreign works translated into Spanish.\n\nAfter his comeback to Valparaíso, Tornero established a library and a printing house in Almendral. When his brother Orestes died in 1881, he took over Mercurio library, that was mainly focused on editing teaching books and works translated from French.\n\nHe founded \"El Comercio\" newspaper in 1890, on the eve of the 1891 Chilean Civil War, to support President José Manuel Balmaceda, who had bad relationship with the Chilean press.\n\nHe died in Santiago on July 26, 1902.\n"}
{"id": "9551008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9551008", "title": "Robert Adler", "text": "Robert Adler\n\nRobert Adler (December 4, 1913 – February 15, 2007) was an Austrian-born American inventor who held numerous patents.\nHe worked for Zenith retiring as the company's Vice President and Director of Research. His work included developing early sound based remote controls for televisions, which were the standard for 25 years until replaced by IR remotes that could transmit more complex commands.\n\nAdler was born in Vienna in 1913, the son of Jenny (née Herzmark), a doctor, and Max Adler, a social theorist. He earned a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Vienna in 1937. Following Austria's annexation by Nazi Germany in 1939, Dr. Adler, who was Jewish, left the country. He traveled first to Belgium, then to England, where he acted on the advice of friends, who recommended that he emigrate to the United States. After emigrating to the United States, he began working at Zenith Electronics in the research division in 1941. In his lifetime, Adler was granted 58 US patents.\n\nThe invention Adler is best known for is the wireless remote control for televisions. While not the first remote control, its underlying technology was a vast improvement over previous remote control systems.\n\nThe \"Zenith Flash-Matic\" remote control, invented by Eugene Polley, another engineer at Zenith, was the first wireless remote control, replacing the signal cable based remote control devices, which never were a success. The Flash-Matic used directional flashlight in the transmitter device, and photo cells in the television set itself. One of the major shortcomings of this technology was that if the television set was exposed to direct sunlight, it could inadvertently trigger one of the remote control functions. The company president sent the engineers back to the drawing board to come up with a better solution.\nA system based on radio waves was briefly considered but rejected because the signals could easily travel through walls and could inadvertently change the channel on a neighbor's television. Furthermore, the marketing people at Zenith desired a remote control which did not require batteries, as it was perceived at the time that if the battery died, the customer might think something was wrong with the television set itself.\n\nAdler's solution was to use sound waves to transmit signals to the TV. The first remote control he developed, the \"Space Command\", used aluminum rods, analogous to tuning forks, struck by hammers toggled by the buttons on the device, to produce high-frequency tones that would be interpreted to control functions on the television set.\n\nIn the 1960s, Adler modified the remote control to use ultrasonic signals, a technology which went on to be used in television sets manufactured for the next 25 years, until replaced by infrared systems which could transmit more complex commands (but, alas, require batteries to run).\n\nBy the time of his retirement from Zenith, officially in 1982, Adler was the company's Vice President and Director of Research. He remained a technical advisor to Zenith until 1999. In 1980, Adler was awarded the Edison Medal. In 1997, Adler and Polley were jointly awarded an Emmy Award by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Adler's latest patent application was filed on October 6, 2006 for work on touch-screen technology.\n\nRobert Adler died in a Boise, Idaho nursing home of heart failure at age 93 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "19335001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19335001", "title": "Robert Boehringer", "text": "Robert Boehringer\n\nRobert Boehringer (30 July 1884 in Winnenden – 9 August 1974 in Geneva) was a German industrialist and poet.\n\nBoehringer was the son of a factory owner. He spent his childhood, youth, and his student years in Basel, where he also had his Ph.D. approved at the local university. Until 1920 he was the head of the family firm C.H. Boehringer in Ingelheim. From 1931 he took part in the establishment of Hoffmann-La Roche in Basel. In 1930 he settled in Geneva.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War II Boehringer gave up his German citizenship and became a Swiss national. He founded the Commission mixte de Secours de la Croix Rouge Internationale and after the war he worked for J. R. Geigy AG.\n\nFrom about 1905 Boehringer became a member of the circle of Stefan George and one of his most trusted friends. After George's death Boehringer became inheritor and administrator of George's estate. In 1959 he established the \"Stefan George Foundation\" and the \"Stefan George Archive\".\n\nWorks by Boehringer: „Über das Leben von Gedichten“, „Bildnisse und Nachweise“ and „Das Antlitz des Genius“.\n\nBoehringers papers are held by the German Federal Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41352085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41352085", "title": "Robert N. Anthony", "text": "Robert N. Anthony\n\nRobert Newton Anthony (September 6, 1916 – December 1, 2006) was an American organizational theorist, and professor of management control at Harvard Business School, known for his work in the field of management control systems.\n\nBorn in Orange, Massachusetts to Charles H. and Grace Newton Anthony in 1916, Anthony skipped a grade in elementary school and attended high school in Haverhill, Massachusetts. There he played the saxophone in the school band, and graduated in 1933 at the age of 16. In 1938 Anthony graduated from Colby College, and in 1942 received his master's degree in business administration from Harvard, and in 1952 his Doctor of Commercial Science degree.\n\nAnthony was a Harvard Business School faculty member from 1940 to 1982. In 1942 he became research assistant to Ross G. Walker (1891-1970), Harvard Professor of Business Administration since 1936. After his service in the US Navy from 1943 to 1946 he returned to Harvard, where he was appointed Full professor in 1956. In 1965 he took another leave of absence from Harvard to serve as the Under Secretary of Defense under his friend, Defense Secretary Robert McNamara. In 1973 and 1974, he was president of the American Accounting Association.\n\nHarvard Business School professor Regina Herzlinger explained about the impact of Anthony's work in the 2006 obituary in the Harvard Gazette: \nAnd furthermore:\nAnd Harvard accounting professor Charles Christenson added: \n\nIn 1965 Anthony served as comptroller at the US Department of Defense under Robert S. McNamara, where he supervised the quality of accounting and financial reporting of the organization. Antony was credited for aligning the accounting service among the five military services. Charles Christenson explained: \n\nAnthony wrote or had a role in writing 27 books on accounting and management control. A selection:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "32016370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32016370", "title": "Sam Nazarian", "text": "Sam Nazarian\n\nSam Nazarian (born 1975) is an Iranian-American businessman, investor and philanthropist. He is the Founder, Chairman and CEO of SBE Entertainment Group.\n\nNazarian was born to a Persian Jewish family in Tehran in 1975. The Nazarian family immigrated to the United States following the Iranian Revolution. He is the son of Younes Nazarian who made a fortune along with his brother Izak Parviz Nazarian as an early investor in Qualcomm. He was raised in Beverly Hills, California where he attended Beverly Hills High School and later studied at the University of Southern California.\n\nHis first entrepreneurial venture was in 1998, when he invested a little bit of money into Platinum Wireless, a telecommunications business specializing in the distribution of Nextel software. Within one year of its founding, Platinum Wireless was the number one Nextel distributor in Southern California. He then entered the world of real estate by diversifying his family's assets into real estate holdings, beginning with the establishment of 3Wall Development in 1999. Under Sam's guidance 3Wall became one of Southern California's largest owners of multi-family housing.\n\nSBE owns several Los Angeles nightclubs and lounges: \"Create\", \"Greystone Manor\", \"Emerson\", \"Hyde\", \"XIV\", \"Colony\", \"Eden\", \"MyHouse\", \"MyStudio\" and \"The Abbey\". As clubs tend to wane in popularity quickly, Nazarian typically only keeps his clubs open for eight months to a year, closes them for extensive renovations, and then reopens them (often under a new name, preferably short) to keep the brand fresh. SBE generally owns each of its venues outright giving it the flexibility to quickly adjust to the vagaries of the market. These venues continue to see a high level of popularity and celebrity patronage, as well as being frequently visited by the characters of HBO's \"Entourage\". Nazarian made an appearance as himself greeting the main characters of the show in the episode \"No Cannes Do\". Nazarian's SBE brand has also been featured on episodes of \"The Hills\". Nazarian owns the Hyde Lounge at Staples Center in Los Angeles and he also owns the Hyde at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami. In 2014, SBE agreed to lease the top two floors of 5900 Wilshire, a skyscraper in Los Angeles, CA.\n\nHe has secured partnerships with Philippe Starck and chefs Katsuya Uechi, José Andrés and Michael Mina. His partnership with Katsuya and Starck resulted in the restaurant Katsuya, with locations in Brentwood, Hollywood, Glendale, downtown Los Angeles and downtown San Diego. XIV, in partnership with Chef Michael Mina, opened on the Sunset Strip in October 2008. Nazarian opened The Bazaar with José Andrés, which is integrated into SLS Hotel in Beverly Hills, in 2008. SBE is also invested in hamburger chain Umami Burger.\n\nSLS Las Vegas, SLS Brickell, SLS Lux, SLS Beverly Hills and SLS South Beach.\n\nRedbury Hollywood, Redbury South Beach and Redbury New York.\n\nRaleigh Hotel Miami Beach and Townhouse Hotel Miami Beach.\n\nNazarian has served as executive producer for the films \"Waiting...,\" \"Down in the Valley\", \"Five Fingers,\" \"The Last Time\", \"Pride\", \"Mr. Brooks\" and \"College\".\n\nIn 2006, Nazarian was honored as the youngest executive to be named one of the \"Top 100 Most Powerful People in Southern California\" by \"West,\" the \"Los Angeles Times Magazine,\" and was named among \"The Influentials.\". Since 2008, Nazarian has served on the Board of Directors of the Southern California Institute of Architecture. The Beverly Hills High School basketball court was renamed \"Sam Nazarian Court\" after Nazarian, a 1993 Beverly Hills High School graduate, made a $200,000 donation to the Beverly Hills Athletic Alumni Association. In July 2009, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa appointed Nazarian to the Board of Airport Commissioners of Los Angeles World Airports. In 2014, Nazarian was named to \"Fortune\"'s 40 Under 40 list.\n\nHe is married to Albanian American model, Emina Cunmulaj; they have two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "46332720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46332720", "title": "Sandy Kemper", "text": "Sandy Kemper\n\nAlexander Sandy Kemper (born June 18, 1965) is an American entrepreneur, known for being founder and board chairman of Agriculture Future of America, founder of Education, Inc., chairman of Global Trading Web Association, founder of The Collector’s Fund, and founder and CEO Perfect Commerce, formerly known as eScout. Kemper is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of C2FO.\n\nKemper was born in Chicago in 1965 and raised in the Kansas City area by adoptive parents Mary “Bebe” Kemper and R. Crosby Kemper, Jr. who died in 2014. He received a bachelor's in history from Northwestern University in 1987. \n\nKemper grew up in a family of bankers. While still in college, he started working with Continental Illinois Bank as an analyst in the treasury management division. Following graduation, he returned to Kansas City and, between 1995 and 2000, moved up through the ranks to become chairman and CEO of UMB Bank, founded in 1919 and run by a succession of family members, and CEO and President of UMB Financial Corporation.\n\nThe first company he founded, Education Inc., was a program that created a series of schools within public schools inside the Kansas City Public School district. Under his leadership, Education, Inc. grew to serve nearly 1,000 at-risk students in the Kansas City Missouri School District, giving them extended academic instruction, additional social services support, and mentors in the community to provide support and leadership.\n\nKemper has been recognized as a \"Top banker in the US,” by \"American Banker\", and in numerous local publications as a leader and entrepreneur in the business community. Featured in media outlets such as \"The Wall Street Journal\", Bloomberg, CNN, CNBC National Public Radio and \"The Financial Times\". Kemper has been widely recognized as a leader in B2B e-commerce and supply chain financial health.\n\nFollowing his tenure at UMB Financial Corporation, he founded and served as the Chairman and CEO of Perfect Commerce (formerly eScout LLC), a provider of supplier relationship management technology. Under his leadership, Perfect Commerce created the Open Supplier Network™ (OSN™) and became a provider of on-demand supplier relationship management (SRM) technology to businesses across the globe. Perfect Commerce expanded to become the world’s single largest independent supplier network, with over 500,000 suppliers. In 2001, he was named chairman of the Global Trading Web Association. Kemper retired as chairman and CEO of Perfect Commerce in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Kemper co-founded The Collectors Fund (TCF), the first art fund in the United States. In addition to creating and managing The Kansas City Collection program, TCF also serves as the management company for the American Masters Collection and the Twentieth Century Masters Collection, two art ownership and investment funds for over 100 member families and businesses across the United States. The collections comprise works by many of the most recognized American artists of the 20th and 21st centuries. Their distinguished features include the art rotation program that allows members to enjoy museum-quality art in their homes, and unique educational events around the country.\n\nIn 2007, Kemper founded his next tech company, C2FO. It is a financial technology company and the creator of the first market for working capital. C2FO operates the C2FO working capital market for companies of all sizes around the world. C2FO has earned the attention and backing of venture firm Union Square Ventures, which is well known for investments in other fast-growing companies like Twitter and Zynga. C2FO is also backed by other venture capital firms including Peter Thiel's Mithril Capital Management, Tiger Global and Summerhill Venture Partners.\n\nIn 2013, Kemper was invited by the U.S. Treasury to discuss innovative solutions to improve access to capital for American businesses in order to spur the country’s economic growth. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew delivered opening remarks at the summit and Gene Sperling, National Economic Council Director, closed the event. They were joined by SBA Administrator Karen Mills and other thought leaders found throughout the business and finance communities. Kemper has also been a featured speaker at the World Bank.\n\nIn October 2015, C2FO reported its Q3 2015 working capital flows of $8.7BN, five times the rate compared to $1.7BN in Q3 2014. The market generated $1.1BN in volume in a single week. C2FO’s client base includes Amazon, Kellogg's, Macy's, Hanes, Walgreens, HP, Nordstrom, Sysco, ULTA Beauty, Pfizer, Toys R Us, Dannon, Costco and Mothercare, among others. C2FO was named to the first Forbes Fintech 50 List in 2015 and 2016. \n\nIn 2018, he was named to a national list of the top 100 most influential financial executives. The Business Journals' Influencers list spotlights 100 executives who are having an impact on business being done in communities nationwide. \n\nKemper currently sits on the board of UMB Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: UMBF), AXA Art Insurance (NYSE: AXA), and NIC (Nasdaq: EGOV) where he serves on the Audit committee and is Chairman of its Compensation committee. Kemper previously served on the boards of BATS and Cboe, two of the largest stock and options exchanges in the world.\nKemper is a Trustee of the Enid and Crosby Kemper Charitable Trust, whose focus is primarily in giving to arts and education, and is also a Trustee for the Kemper Museum of Art.\n\nKemper and his family are also engaged in a number of academic, civic and philanthropic endeavors. Kemper serves on the board of the Agriculture Future of America (AFA), a non-profit scholarship and leadership development organization, which he co-founded and has now grown to include more than 10,000 college scholars in active leadership development programs across the country. Kemper and his wife, Christine, have served as the Co-Chairmen for the World War I Museum's \"Call to Duty\" campaign, and have raised nearly $20 Million to enable construction of a new exhibition gallery at the Museum and renovation of existing outdoor space, as well as amenities to enhance the visitor experience as a venue for community and corporate events. In 2016, Sandy and Christine co-founded YEPKC (Young Entrepreneurs Program, Kansas City) along with four other C2FO employees. YEPKC allows juniors and seniors in high school to develop and practice entrepreneurial skills and explore their interests through hands-on professional experience by interning with fast-growth and start-up businesses in the Kansas City area. In 2017, the Henry W. Bloch School of Management named Sandy and Christine its Regional Entrepreneurs of the Year.\n\nKemper lives with his wife Christine Kemper and their four children in Kansas City.\n"}
{"id": "43711892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43711892", "title": "Sean Mulryan", "text": "Sean Mulryan\n\nSean Mulryan (born September 1954) is an Irish property developer, and the founder and chairman and CEO of the Ballymore Group, a Dublin-based international property development company. He was named on the Estates Gazette 2017 'Power List', which lists the 50 most powerful individuals in Britain's commercial real estate sector. Mulryan was the only Irish person to be named on the list, which included US Billionaire and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the Chairman of CC Land, Cheung Chung Kiu.\n\nSean Mulryan was born in September 1954, the son of John and Josephine Mulryan. He grew up in rural poverty in the village of Oran, near Castlerea, Co Roscommon, in the west of Ireland, in a farming family with seven children.\n\nMulryan left school at the age of 17, and trained as a bricklayer. Aged 19, he bought his first plot of land. At 26 he set up his own company and shortly afterwards founded Ballymore, which is now considered one Europe's biggest property developers.\n\nBallymore Group was founded in 1982 by Mulryan, then aged 28, who is the chairman. David Brophy is the group chief executive.\n\nBallymore has become one of the biggest providers of residential space in London.\nIn 2017, it was reported that the previous year's profits at the UK arm of Ballymore had increased almost three-fold to £154.9m (€217.6m).\n\nBallymore Group works on large-scale projects in London and across Europe, with a particular focus on urban regeneration.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that Oran native Sean Mulryan launched the latest development in Dublin, \nwhich is a €700 million development in the docklands.\n\nSeveral members of the Mulryan family have been involved in Ballymore. John Mulryan is a son of Sean Mulryan and the managing director of Ballymore UK, meanwhile, Sean's brother Donal Mulryan used to work for Ballymore before starting his own development company, West Properties, which owns various developments in the UK, including Skyline Central, the tallest apartment complex in Manchester.\n\nAs of 2012, he is one of the richest men in Ireland. According to London's \"The Evening Standard\", Mulryan owns more land in London than the Duke of Westminster.\n\nOn 16 February 2012, Wandsworth Council approved Ballymore Group's plans for the 15 acre development in Nine Elms. Embassy Gardens is set to provide \"up to 1,982 new homes alongside shops, cafes, bars, restaurants, business space, a 100 bed hotel, a health centre, children's playgrounds and sports pitches\". In 2014, it was reported that Mulryan had engaged Lazard and CBRE Group to raise about €2.5bn to fund the Embassy Gardens development.\n\nOutside of his work with Ballymore, Mulryan is set to join the board of the Ireland West Airport Knock in 2017. Knock confirmed the appointment in May 2017, along with two other new Directors. The airport is considered key for regional development and it expects to handle around 750,000 passengers in 2017, making it its busiest year.\n\nMulryan and his wife Bernadine live at the Ardenode Stud, County Kildare, with five children. They are very active in horse racing and own \"somewhere between 50 and 100\" racehorses, trained in Ireland and France. Among his top horses was Forget the Past, which was a multiple winner at the highest level over jumps and trained by Michael O’Brien, who handled a number of Mulryan-owned horses. He also owned flat horses, including Thewayyouare, which was once considered to be a strong contender for The Derby. In 2017, Mulryan's Ballymore Properties sponsored the headline race on the last day of the Punchestown National Hunt Festival. Worth over €100,000, the Ballymore Handicap Hurdle is run over two and a half miles and is one of the most hotly contested races of the festival.\n\nHis friends include the athlete and politician Seb Coe and Bono, the singer in the Irish pop group U2. Debbie Harry, of the pop group Blondie sang at his 50th birthday party.\n"}
{"id": "1580715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580715", "title": "Stanisław Albrecht Radziwiłł", "text": "Stanisław Albrecht Radziwiłł\n\nPrince Stanisław Albrecht \"Stash\" Radziwiłł (21 July 1914 – 27 July 1976) was a scion of the Polish-Lithuanian princely House of Radziwiłł, born in Szpanów in the Volhynian Governorate of the Russian Empire (now Szpaniv, Ukraine).\n\nHis parents were Janusz Franciszek, Prince Radziwiłł (1880–1967) and Princess Anna Lubomirska (1882–1947). Stanisław had two elder brothers, Edmund Radziwiłł (1906–1971) and Ludwik Radziwiłł (1911–1928). Through his father, Stanislaw Albrecht was second cousin twice removed of Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, wife of the Heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria.\n\nRadziwiłł married Countess Rose de Mauléon (1913–1996), on 10 April 1940 and they were divorced in 1945. She later married Baron de Chollet, a Swiss banker.\n\nRadziwill married Grace Maria Kolin on 2 May 1946. They were divorced in 1958. The marriage produced one son: \n\nKolin later married William Ward, 3rd Earl of Dudley (1894–1969) as his third wife, and from 1975, she lived with Robert B. Silvers.\n\nRadziwiłł married Caroline Lee Bouvier Canfield on 19 March 1959. They had two children:\n\nRadziwiłł was one of the organisers of the Sikorski Historical Institute in London and founder of St. Anne's Church at Fawley Court, the site of Divine Mercy College, a school for boys of Polish origin, set up by the Marian Fathers in 1953 near Henley-on-Thames, England.\n\nHe died on 27 July 1976, in London at the age of 62. His body was interred in the crypt of St Anne's Church at Fawley Court.\n\nUpon becoming a British subject and in keeping with standard practice, Radziwiłł would have needed permission to use his princely title from Queen Elizabeth II, but did not receive special dispensation and was known in Britain as \"Mr. Radziwiłł\" legally and as \"Prince Radziwiłł\" by courtesy.\n\n"}
{"id": "835735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=835735", "title": "Thomas Nelson Page", "text": "Thomas Nelson Page\n\nThomas Nelson Page (April 23, 1853 – November 1, 1922) was a lawyer and American writer. He also served as the U.S. ambassador to Italy under the administration of President Woodrow Wilson during World War I.\n\nBorn at Oakland, one of the Nelson family plantations, in the village of Beaverdam in Hanover County, Virginia to John Page, a lawyer and a plantation owner, and Elizabeth Burwell (Nelson). He was a scion of the prominent Nelson and Page families, each First Families of Virginia. Although he was from once-wealthy lineage, after the American Civil War, which began when he was only 8 years old, his parents and their relatives were largely impoverished during Reconstruction and his teenage years. In 1869, he entered Washington College, known now as Washington and Lee University, in Lexington, Virginia when Robert E. Lee was president of the college. In Page's later literary works, Robert E. Lee would come to serve as the model figure of Southern Heroism. Page left Washington College before graduation for financial reasons after three years, but continued to desire an education specifically in law. To earn money to pay for his degree, Page tutored the children of his cousins in Kentucky. From 1873 to 1874, he was enrolled in the law school of the University of Virginia. At Washington College and thereafter at UVA, Nelson was a member of the prestigious fraternity Delta Psi, AKA St. Anthony Hall.\n\nAdmitted to the Virginia Bar Association, he practiced as a lawyer in Richmond between 1876 and 1893, and also began his writing career. He was married to Anne Seddon Bruce on July 28, 1886. She died on December 21, 1888 of a throat hemorrhage.\nHe remarried on June 6, 1893, to Florence Lathrop Field, a widowed sister-in-law of retailer Marshall Field. In the same year Page, who had become disillusioned with the Southern legal system, gave up his practice entirely and moved with his wife to Washington, D.C. There, he kept up his writing, which amounted to eighteen volumes when they were compiled and published in 1912. Page popularized the plantation tradition genre of Southern writing, which told of an idealized version of life before the Civil War, with contented slaves working for beloved masters and their families. He based much of his writing on his personal experience living on a plantation in the Antebellum South. Page viewed the Antebellum South as a representation of moral purity, and often vilified the reforms of the Gilded Age as a sign of moral decline. His 1887 collection of short stories, \"In Ole Virginia\", is Page's quintessential work, which provides an depiction of the Antebellum South. Criticism of Page's works runs the gamut, largely based upon whether the critic holds traditionalist or revisionist viewpoints of the antebellum South, War and Reconstruction years. His most well-known short-story from that collection was \"Marse Chan.\" \"Marse Chan\" was popularized because of Page's ability to capture southern dialect. Another short-story collection of his is entitled \"The Burial of the Guns\" (1894). As a result of his literary success, Page was popular amongst the Capital elite, and was regularly invited to socialize with politicians from around the country. During the first quarter of the 20th century, he founded a library in the Sycamore Tavern structure near Montpelier, Virginia, in memory of his wife, Florence Lathrop Page.\n\nUnder President Woodrow Wilson, Page was appointed as U.S. ambassador to Italy for six years between 1913 and 1919. Despite being untrained in Italian and having little experience in governmental affairs, Page was determined to do a good job. He eventually learned Italian, formed beneficial relationships with Italian government officials, and accurately reported on the Italian state during World War I. During his time as ambassador Page managed to maintain and improve American-Italian relations during World War I, and provided a sympathetic ear to the Italian and Triple Entente cause in the U.S government. After a disagreement with President Wilson over the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, in which he argued for increased Italian benefits, Page resigned his post in 1919. His book entitled \"Italy and the World War\" (1920) is a memoir of his service there.\n\nReturning to his home in Oakland, Virginia, Page continued to write for the remainder of his years. He died in 1922 at Oakland in Hanover County, Virginia.\n\nPage was an activist in stimulating the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities to mobilize to save historical sites at Yorktown and elsewhere, especially in the Historic Triangle of Virginia, from loss to development. He was involved in gaining Federal funding to build a seawall at Jamestown in 1900, protecting a site where the remains of James Fort were later discovered by archaeologists working on the Jamestown Rediscovery project which began in 1994.\n\nThe Page and Nelson families were each among the First Families of Virginia. The Page lineage in Virginia began with the arrival at Jamestown of Colonel John Page at Jamestown in 1650. Col. Page was a prominent founder of Middle Plantation, which was later renamed Williamsburg. The Page family included Mann Page, U.S. Congressman and Governor John Page. The Nelson lineage began with Thomas \"Scotch Tom\" Nelson, a Scottish immigrant who settled at Yorktown, and his son, William Nelson, who was a royal governor of Virginia. Thomas Nelson Page was a direct descendant of Thomas Nelson, Jr., a signer of the Declaration of Independence and a governor after Statehood, and thus of Robert \"King\" Carter, who served as an acting royal governor of Virginia and was one of its wealthiest landowners in the late 17th and early 18th centuries. The Nelson family had settled in Hanover County, where Thomas's mother Elizabeth Burwell Nelson, married John Page.\n\nA contemporary cousin of Thomas Nelson Page was William Nelson Page (1854–1932), who became a civil engineer and mining manager had helped develop the natural resources of western Virginia and southern West Virginia in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. William Page is credited with, in partnership with millionaire financier Henry Huttleston Rogers, planning and Building the Virginian Railway. His family's Victorian-era mansion, the Page-Vawter House in Ansted, West Virginia, is a National Historical Landmark as is a former company store of the Page Coal and Coke Company in Pageton.Other cousins were Confederate officers Robert Edward Lee and Richard Lucian Page\n\nThe ruins of Rosewell Plantation, the home of early members of the Page family and one of the finest mansions built in the colonies, sit on the banks of the York River in Gloucester County. In 1916, a fire swept the mansion leaving a magnificent shell which is testament to 18th century craftsmanship and dreams. There are ongoing archaeological studies at the site.\n\nThomas Nelson Page was one of the best-known writers of his day. He served as Woodrow Wilson's ambassador to Italy, and the president referred to him as a \"national ornament\".\nPage's postbellum fiction featured a nostalgic view of the South in step with what is termed Lost Cause ideology. Slaves are happy and simple, slotted into a paternalistic society. For example, the former slave in Marse Chan is uneducated, speaks phonetically, and has unrelenting admiration for his former master. The gentry are noble and principled, with fealty to country and to chivalry—they seem like knights of a different age. The strain epitomized by Page would carry through the postwar era, cropping up again in art with films like \"Birth of a Nation\". The ideology and thoughts that appear in Page's writing and in Southern ideology are no mere simplistic, archaic world-view; they are part of a complex history that has informed, for worse and for better, the evolution of the Southern mind to today.\n\nThomas Nelson Page lamented that the slavery-era \"good old darkies\" had been replaced by the \"new issue\" (blacks born after slavery) whom he described as \"lazy, thriftless, intemperate, insolent, dishonest, and without the most rudimentary elements of morality\" (pp. 80, 163). Page, who helped popularize the images of cheerful and devoted Mammies and Sambos in his early books, became one of the first writers to introduce a literary black brute. In 1898 he published \"Red Rock\", a Reconstruction novel, with the heinous figure of Moses, a loathsome and sinister black politician. Moses tried to rape a white woman: \"He gave a snarl of rage and sprang at her like a wild beast\" (pp. 356–358). He was later lynched for \"a terrible crime\".\nPage dealt with the morality of lynching by acquitting the mob from any guilt, holding, instead, the supposedly debased Negroes responsible for their own violent executions. The following excerpts are taken from Page's essay, \"The Negro: The Southerner's Problem,\" published in 1904. Page expected his reader to read his entire book with care before making judgments on complex, difficult subjects, in accordance with a society that read in depth. In his words in his introduction:\n\nWith that in mind, Page's works include the following for which the disclaimer was necessary:\n\nLikewise, Thomas Nelson Page complained that African American leaders should cease \"talk of social equality that inflames the ignorant Negro,\" and instead, work to stop \"the crime of ravishing and murdering women and children.\"\n\n\nSelected articles\n\nCollected works\n\n"}
{"id": "52631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52631", "title": "Tobacco industry", "text": "Tobacco industry\n\nThe tobacco industry comprises those persons and companies engaged in the growth, preparation for sale, shipment, advertisement, and distribution of tobacco and tobacco-related products. It is a global industry; tobacco can grow in any warm, moist environment, which means it can be farmed on all continents except Antarctica.\n\nTobacco, one of the most widely used addictive substances in the world, is a plant native to the Americas and historically one of the half-dozen most important crops grown by American farmers. More specifically, tobacco refers to any of various plants of the genus \"Nicotiana\" (especially \"N. tabacum\") native to tropical America and widely cultivated for their leaves, which are dried and processed chiefly for smoking in pipes, cigarettes, and cigars; it is also cut to form chewing tobacco or ground to make snuff or dipping tobacco, as well as other less common preparations. From 1617 to 1793 tobacco was the most valuable staple export from the English American mainland colonies and the United States. Until the 1960s, the United States not only grew but also manufactured and exported more tobacco than any other country.\n\nTobacco is an agricultural commodity product, similar in economic terms to agricultural foodstuffs: the price is in part determined by crop yields, which vary depending on local weather conditions. The price also varies by specific species or cultivar grown, the total quantity on the market ready for sale, the area where it is grown, the health of the plants, and other characteristics individual to product quality.\n\nSince 1964 conclusive medical evidence of the deadly effects of tobacco consumption has led to a sharp decline in official support for producers and manufacturers of tobacco, although it contributes to the agricultural, fiscal, manufacturing, and exporting sectors of the economy. Laws around the world now often have some restrictions on smoking, but almost 6 trillion cigarettes are still produced each year, representing over a 12% increase since the year 2000. China accounts for over 40% of current world production. Tobacco is often heavily taxed to gain revenues for governments and as an incentive for people not to smoke.\n\nFor a history of how tobacco has been grown and marketed, see tobacco, smoking and articles on similar topics.\n\nThe phrase \"tobacco industry\" generally refers to the companies involved in the manufacture of cigarettes, cigars, snuff, chewing tobacco and pipe tobacco. China National Tobacco Co. has become the largest tobacco company in the world by volume. Following extensive merger and acquisition activity in the 1990s and 2000s, four firms dominate international markets - in alphabetical order:\n\n\nAltria, formerly called the Philip Morris Cos. (Philip Morris Companies Inc.), still owns the Philip Morris tobacco business in the United States, but Philip Morris International has been fully independent since 2008. In most countries these companies either have long-established dominance, or have purchased the major domestic producer or producers (often a former state monopoly). Until 2014 the United States had one other substantial independent firm, Lorillard, which Reynolds American, Inc. acquired. India has its own major player, ITC Limited (25.4%-owned by British American Tobacco). A small number of state monopolies survive, as well as some small independent firms.\n\nTobacco advertising is becoming increasingly restricted by the governments of countries around the world citing health issues as a reason to restrict tobaccos appeal\n\nThe tobacco industry in the United States has suffered greatly since the mid-1990s, when it was successfully sued by several U.S. states. The suits claimed that tobacco causes cancer, that companies in the industry knew this, and that they deliberately understated the significance of their findings, contributing to the illness and death of many citizens in those states.\n\nThe industry was found to have decades of internal memos confirming in detail that tobacco (which contains nicotine) is both addictive and carcinogenic (cancer-causing). The industry had long denied that nicotine is addictive.\n\nThe suit resulted in a large cash settlement being paid by a group of tobacco companies to the states that sued. Further, since the suit was settled, other individuals have come forth, in class action lawsuits, claiming individual damages. New suits of this nature will probably continue for a long time.\n\nSince the settlement is a heavy tax on the profits of the tobacco industry in the US, regressive against smokers, and further settlements being made only add to the financial burden of these companies, it is debatable if the industry has a money-producing long term outlook.\n\nThe tobacco industry has historically been largely successful in this litigation process, with the majority of cases being won by the industry. During the first 42 years of tobacco litigation (between 1954 and 1996) the industry maintained a clean record in litigation thanks to tactics described in a R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company internal memo as \"the way we won these cases, to paraphrase Gen. Patton, is not by spending all of Reynolds' money, but by making the other son of a bitch spend all of his.\" Between 1995 and 2005 only 59% of cases were won by the tobacco industry either outright or on appeal in the US, but the continued success of the industry's efforts to win these cases is questionable. In Florida, the industry has lost 77 of the 116 \"Engle progeny\" cases that have gone to trial. The U.S. Supreme Court has\nalso denied the industry's major grounds for appeal of Engle cases.\n\nIn June 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act which has been called a \"sweeping anti-smoking\" bill. Among other restrictions, this Act banned the use of any constituent, additive, herb or spice that adds a \"characterizing flavor\" to the tobacco product or smoke (Section 907)(a)(1)(A). The aim of this ban is to prevent children and teenagers from becoming addicted to cigarettes at a young age with the US Department of Health and Human Services citing that \"studies have shown that 17 year old\nsmokers are three times as likely to use flavored cigarettes as are smokers over the age of 25\". This ban however does not apply to menthol cigarettes, which are exempt from the bill.\n\nLawsuits against the tobacco industry are primarily restricted to the United States due to differences in legal systems in other countries. Many businesses class ongoing lawsuits as a cost of doing business in the US and feel their revenue will be only marginally affected by the activities.\n\nLarge tobacco companies have entered the electronic cigarette market by either buying some of the small e-cigarette companies or by starting their own e-cigarette companies.\n\nOn May 11, 2004, the U.S. became the 108th country to sign the World Health Organization's Global Treaty on Tobacco Control. This treaty places broad restrictions on the sale, advertising, shipment, and taxation of tobacco products. The U.S. has not yet ratified this treaty in its senate and does not yet have a schedule for doing so.\n\nMost recently, there has been discussion within the tobacco control community of transforming the tobacco industry through the replacement of tobacco corporations by other types of business organizations that can be established to provide tobacco to the market while not attempting to increase market demand.\n\nOn February 20, 2007, the US Supreme Court ruled that the Altria Group (formerly Philip Morris) did not have to pay $79.5 million in punitive damages awarded to Mayola Williams in a 1999 Oregon court ruling, when she sued Phillip Morris for responsibility in the cancer death of her husband, Jesse Williams. The Supreme Court's decision overturns a ruling made by the Oregon Supreme Court that upheld the award.\n\nOn April 3, 2008, The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit threw out a $800 billion class-action lawsuit filed on behalf of a group or class of people who smoked light cigarettes. The plaintiffs' lawyers were confident that they would be able to win this suit due to the success of the Schwab case wherein tobacco companies were found guilty of fraud-like charges because they were selling the idea that light cigarettes were safer than regular cigarettes. The ruling by the three-judge panel will not allow the suit to be pursued as a class, but instead need proof for why individual smokers chose light cigarettes over regular cigarettes.\n\nThe United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates the following production of unprocessed tobacco by country/region in 2000. (Figures are in thousands of tonnes.)\n\nThe tobacco industry has had a long relationship with the entertainment industry. In silent era movies, back-lit smoke was often used by filmmakers to create sense of mystery and sensuality in a scene. Later, cigarettes were deliberately placed in the hands of Hollywood stars as an early phase of product placement, until health regulating bodies tightened rules on tobacco advertisement and anti-smoking groups pressured actors and studio executives against such tactics. Big Tobacco has since been the subject focus of films such as the docudrama \"The Insider\" (1999) and \"Thank You For Smoking\" (2005).\n\nThese issues have also constituted a recurring storyline in the AMC series \"Mad Men\", from season 1 beginning with the pilot episode (\"Smoke Gets In Your Eyes\") through season 7's midseason finale, \"Waterloo\". In another television show, the Netflix original program \"Orange Is the New Black\" season 2, episode 2 (\"Looks Blue, Tastes Red\"), \"Black Cindy bring[s] some Naderism to Lichtfield (a women's federal penitentiary) when talking about Philip Morris: 'Nah they ain't so bad. The people can decide for themselves if they wanna smoke. The real evil is them companies killing us without our consent. Monsanto. Rio Tinto. Big Pharma. BP. Halliburton. I've been reading there's some dark shit goin' down. Not that those motherfuckers are ever gonna hire us! The real criminals? They don't bother with small timers.' \".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46992771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46992771", "title": "UAE company formation", "text": "UAE company formation\n\nThis Wikipedia page deals with various aspects UAE company formation in Dubai and other emirates in UAE.\n\nThe types of Business Licenses issued in Dubai and other emirates in United Arab Emirates (UAE) are professional, commercial and industrial. The professional license covers services offered by professionals, artisans and craftsmen; the commercial license covers all trading and commercial activities performed with an intention of making profit ; the industrial license covers all industrial and manufacturing activities. The type of license depends on the business activity of the company or enterprise.\n\nIn UAE, a company can be formed in any of the following three jurisdictions: Mainland, Free Zone and Offshore. The licensing authority in mainland is the Department of Economic Development of the respective emirates. In Free Zones, the relevant Free Zone Authority will be the licensing authority and respective Offshore Authority in the case of Offshore jurisdiction.\n\nThe common legal forms of business in the UAE are:\nUnder UAE Law, there are five types of business establishments applicable to foreign entities interested in establishing a formal presence in the UAE. UAE government has implemented wide range of economic and administrative policies which has made UAE an attractive business destination.\n\nA company can create a permanent establishment, create an entity in a UAE free zone, enter into a commercial agency agreement, establish a branch office, create a civil company (currently possible to establish a company in Dubai, Sharjah and Ajman).\n\nA Limited Liability Company (LLC) is the most common type of registration in the UAE and is recommended where the purpose of the entity is to make sales within the region. However, it should be noted that 100% foreign ownership of such an entity is not permitted. Under the UAE Commercial Companies Law (CCL), foreign investors are permitted to hold up to 49 per cent equity ownership in UAE companies and 51 per cent of the equity must be held at all times by one or more UAE nationals.\n\nIn accordance with Article (218) of the CCL a Limited Liability Company can be formed by a minimum of 1 (as per Article 8 of the Federal Commercial Company Law of 2015) and a maximum of 50 shareholders whose liability is limited to their shares in the capital of the company. Recent amendments to Article (217) of the CCL that came into force in June 2009 removed the requirement for minimum share capital (previously AED 300,000 in Dubai and AED 150,000 in other Emirates) allowing founders of a limited liability company the freedom to determine the company’s share capital which could be less than the earlier prescribed bottom line.\n\nA LLC must appoint a minimum of one manager and up to a maximum of five managers for the business. Managers must be appointed by a Memorandum of Association or by a management contract, for a fixed term or an unlimited term. Unless the Memorandum of Association states otherwise, the manager has full powers of administration and management of the LLC. LLC is not allowed to practice its activities in the UAE without a Trade License and Commercial Registration Certificate.\n\nEstablishing a business entity in one of the UAE's many Free trade zones (FTZs) can be an attractive option for foreign investors. UAE has over 35 FTAs of which more than 20 are located in Dubai. \nThe main attraction for setting up a company in a free zone is that there is no UAE national shareholding required. All free zones in UAE offer the following incentives:\n\nUAE Free Zone companies can only operate within the free zone boundaries and are generally limited to performing solely those activities listed in their license(s).\n\nIt is mandatory for every company registered in the Free Zone to lease minimum office space within that particular Free Zone. A Free Zone Company can obtain UAE residence visas for the director, shareholder and also employees of the company through the Free Zone where it is registered.\n\nUAE Offshore company registration is a very popular method of doing business in the Middle East region. \nIn UAE there are three offshore jurisdictions – Dubai (Jebel Ali Offshore Company) Ras Al Khaimahand Ajman. They offer similar services but serve different strategic goals of offshore company registration.The Jebel Ali Offshore Company is an International Business Crown/holds the only offshore vehicle that is permitted to own / hold real estate in the Emirate of Dubai.\n\nThe RAK Offshore and the RAK International Company (RAKIC) are International Business Companies. They provide a flexible and credible option for foreign investors to register an offshore company in UAE without the need to establish a physical presence in the UAE.\n\nUAE Offshore companies offer the following benefits:\n\nA branch office has the same legal identity as its parent company and conducts business under the name of its parent company. A branch office may only be engaged in activities similar to those of its parent company but it is not permitted to carry on the business of importing the products of its parent company, a function reserved for local trade agents. In some cases the Branch of a foreign company are required to obtain an additional license from UAE Ministry of Economy.\n\nRepresentative office, on the other hand, is limited to promoting its parent company’s activities i.e. gathering information and soliciting orders and projects to be performed by the company’s head office.\n\nA UAE national must be appointed as a ‘service agent’ for the branch or representative office.\n\nA civil company is a business partnership for professionals like doctors, lawyers, engineers and accountants.\nA civil company is 100% owned by the professional partners (except for engineering civil company), however, a UAE National Local Service Agent is normally required. \nA foreign company can be a partner in a civil company, as long as the foreign company is in the same field as the civil company.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "58084730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58084730", "title": "Yoni Assia", "text": "Yoni Assia\n\nJohnathan ‘Yoni’ Alexander Assia is an Israeli entrepreneur, inventor and founding CEO of financial technology startup and social trading platform eToro. \n\nAssia obtained a bachelor's degree in management and computer science with the Open University in 2005, and a master’s degree in computer science from the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in 2007. \n\nIn 2003, Assia co-founded \"CDRide\", a startup which developed a system to film people on roller-coasters and wirelessly transmit the footage to a booth where it could be purchased by the rider. The company won several large contracts, including one with Paramount Parks.\n\nAssia was appointed to the board of the Bancor protocol in May 2017.\n\nAssia founded eToro in 2006 together with his brother Ronen Assia and David Ring. The social trading platform enables users to watch and copy the investment patterns of successful users, as well as perform cryptocurrency trading, supporting a range of crypocurrencies. As of 2018, eToro had more than 10 million registered users and had raised US$162M.\n\nIn 2013, Assia invented colored coins, a class of methods for associating real world assets with addresses on the bitcoin network.\n\n"}
