{"id": "32863566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32863566", "title": "Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences Act, 1998", "text": "Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences Act, 1998\n\nThe Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences Act, 1998 (AARTO, Act No. 46 of 1998) is an act of the Parliament of South Africa which introduces a points demerit system for violations of traffic law. It is managed by the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC), a public entity under the Department of Transport. Although the act was enacted in 1998, it has not yet been fully implemented, but has now been rescheduled for a national rollout to the whole country early in 2012. \n\nSouth Africa has one of the highest road accident and fatality statistics in the world and the intention of AARTO is to address the situation by encouraging responsible driving habits amongst the motoring public.\n\nAARTO introduces a Demerit Points System, for the first time in South Africa, which is intended to penalize drivers and fleet operators who are habitual offenders. Under AARTO, traffic infringements will result in points being allocated to a driver's licence. On reaching 12 points the licence is suspended. If no infringements occur within a three-month period a point will be deducted. If a license is suspended three times it is permanently revoked.\n\nThe Act has serious implications for the entire South African Transport Industry. ALL role players, from senior management to the lowest level driver employee are affected. Driver based employees stand to lose their livelihood if their licence is suspended. Management and fleet operators may face crippling blows to their business as entire fleets can be grounded.\n\nIn spite of its pending implementation on a national basis, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the AARTO Act and numerous amendments have made it difficult for the public and business sector to adequately prepare.\n\nEducation on AARTO is imperative for all role players to be adequately trained on AARTO prior to its implementation. Failure to prepare for and comply with the provisions of this act could be disastrous for individuals and businesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19135792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19135792", "title": "ArizonaNativeNet", "text": "ArizonaNativeNet\n\nArizonaNativeNet is the first online virtual university designed for use by Native American communities in the United States and Native Nations around the world. \n\nIt was developed and produced by The University of Arizona through a partnership led by the Native Nations Institute at the Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy, the Native Peoples Technical Assistance Office, and the Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program at the University of Arizona's James E. Rogers College of Law. \n\nThe main purpose of ArizonaNativeNet is to provide Native Nations with access to the most up-to-date research, education, and distance-learning resources. The site is designed to be used by tribal leaders, policymakers, students, educators, media and the general public.\n\nS. James Anaya,\nJames J. Lenoir Professor of Human Rights Law and Policy\n\nRobert A. Williams, Jr.,\nE. Thomas Sullivan Professor of Law and American Indian Studies \nDirector of the Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy (IPLP) Program\n\nMelissa L. Tatum,\nResearch Professor of Law\nAssociate Director, Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program\n\nRaymond D. Austin,\nDistinguished Jurist in Residence\n\nRobert A. Hershey,\nDirector, Indigenous Peoples Law Clinic\n\nJames C. Hopkins,\nAssociate Clinical Professor, Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program\n\nJoseph P. Kalt & Lance G. Morgan,\nAdjunct Professors\n\n"}
{"id": "2994742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994742", "title": "Atlantic Reporter", "text": "Atlantic Reporter\n\nThe Atlantic Reporter is a United States regional case law reporter. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson West.\n\nThe \"Atlantic Reporter\" contains select opinions of state supreme courts and lower appellate courts from the following jurisdictions:\n\n\nThe first series of the \"Atlantic Reporter\" was published from 1895 until 1938, for 200 volumes. The \"Atlantic Reporter, Second Series\", was published from 1939 until 2010, for 999 volumes. The \"Atlantic Reporter, Third Series\", is published from 2010 to the present. The citation forms for these series are A., A.2d, and A.3d respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "433111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433111", "title": "Attorney General for England and Wales", "text": "Attorney General for England and Wales\n\nHer Majesty's Attorney General for England and Wales, usually known simply as the Attorney General, is one of the Law Officers of the Crown. Along with the subordinate Solicitor General for England and Wales, the Attorney General serves as the chief legal adviser of the Crown and its government in England and Wales.\n\nThe position of Attorney General existed since at least 1243, when records show a professional attorney was hired to represent the King's interests in court. The position first took on a political role in 1461 when the holder of the office was summoned to the House of Lords to advise the government there on legal matters. In 1673 the Attorney General officially became the Crown's adviser and representative in legal matters, although still specialising in litigation rather than advice. The beginning of the twentieth century saw a shift away from litigation and more towards legal advice. Today prosecutions are carried out by the Crown Prosecution Service and most legal advice to government departments is provided by the Government Legal Service, both under the supervision of the Attorney General.\n\nThe job of the Attorney General is a demanding one, and Sir Patrick Hastings wrote while serving that \"to be a law officer is to be in hell\". Duties include superintending the Crown Prosecution Service, the Serious Fraud Office, and other government lawyers with the authority to prosecute cases. Additionally, the Attorney General superintends the Government Legal Department (formerly the Treasury Solicitor's Department), HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate and the Service Prosecuting Authority. The Attorney advises the government, individual government departments and individual government ministers on legal matters, answering questions in Parliament and bringing \"unduly lenient\" sentences and points of law to the Court of Appeal of England and Wales. Since the passing of the Law Officers Act 1997 duties can be delegated to the Solicitor General, and any actions are treated as if they came from the Attorney General.\n\nThe origins of the office are unknown, but the earliest record of an \"attorney of the crown\" is from 1243, when a professional attorney named Laurence Del Brok was paid to prosecute cases for the King, who could not appear in courts where he had an interest. During the early days of the office the holder was largely concerned with representing the Crown in litigation, and held no political role or duties. Although a valuable position, the Attorney General was expected to work incredibly hard; although Francis North was earning £7,000 a year as Attorney General he was pleased to give up the office and become Chief Justice of the Common Pleas because of the smaller workload, despite the heavily reduced pay. The office first took on a political element in 1461, when the holder was summoned by writ to the House of Lords to advise the government on legal matters. This was also the first time that the office was referred to as the office of the \"Attorney General\". The custom of summoning the Attorney General to the Lords by writ when appointed continues unbroken to this day, although until the appointment of Lord Williams of Mostyn in 1999, no Attorney General had sat in the Lords since 1700, and no Attorney General had obeyed the writ since 1742.\n\nDuring the sixteenth century the Attorney General was used to pass messages between the House of Lords and House of Commons, although he was viewed suspiciously by the Commons and seen as a tool of the Lords and the King. In 1673 the Attorney General began to take up a seat in the House of Commons, and since then it has been convention to ensure that all Attorneys General are members of the House of Commons or House of Lords, although there is no requirement that they be so. During the constitutional struggle centred on the Royal Declaration of Indulgence in 1672 and 1673 the Attorney General officially became the Crown's representative in legal matters.\n\nIn 1890 the ability of an Attorney General to continue practising privately was formally taken away, turning the office-holder into a dedicated representative of the government. Since the beginning of the twentieth century the role of the Attorney General has moved away from representing the Crown and government directly in court, and it has become more of a political and ministerial post, with the Attorney General serving as a legal adviser to both the government as a whole and individual government departments. Despite this change, until the passing of the Homicide Act 1957 the Attorney General was bound to prosecute any and all poisoning cases.\n\nHowever, in recent times the Attorney General has exceptionally conducted litigation in person before the courts, for instance before the House of Lords in \"A and Others v Secretary of State for the Home Department\", where the legality of the Government's detention of terrorist suspects at Belmarsh was at issue.\n\nThe Attorney General is a non-cabinet minister who leads the Attorney General's Office. The rule that no Attorney General may be a cabinet minister is a political convention rather than a law, and for a short time the Attorney General did sit in cabinet, starting with Lord Birkenhead in 1915 and ending with Douglas Hogg in 1928. There is nothing that prohibits Attorneys-General from attending meetings of the cabinet, and on occasion they have been asked to attend meetings to advise the government on the best course of action legally. Despite this it is considered preferable to exclude Attorneys General from cabinet meetings so as to draw a distinct line between them and the political decisions on which they are giving legal advice. As a government minister, the Attorney General is directly answerable to Parliament.\n\nHe or she is also the chief legal adviser of the Crown and its government, and has the primary role of advising the government on any legal repercussions of their actions, either orally at meetings or in writing. As well as the government as a whole, he also advises individual departments. Although the primary role is no longer one of litigation, the Attorney General still represents the Crown and government in court in some select, particularly important cases, and chooses the Treasury Counsel who handle most government legal cases. By convention, he represents the government in every case in front of the International Court of Justice. The Attorney General also superintends the Crown Prosecution Service and appoints its head, the Director of Public Prosecutions. Decisions to prosecute are taken by the Crown Prosecution Service other than in exceptional cases i.e. where the Attorney General's consent is required by statute or in cases of relating to national security. An example of a consent case is the Campbell Case, which led to the fall of the first Labour government in 1924.\n\nThe Attorney General also superintends the Government Legal Department and the Serious Fraud Office. The Attorney General also has powers to bring \"unduly lenient\" sentences and points of law to the Court of Appeal, issue writs of \"nolle prosequi\" to cancel criminal prosecutions, supervise other prosecuting bodies (such as DEFRA) and advise individual ministers facing legal action as a result of their official actions. He is responsible for making applications to the court restraining vexatious litigants, and may intervene in litigation to represent the interests of charity, or the public interest in certain family law cases. He or she is also officially the leader of the Bar of England and Wales, although this is merely custom and has no duties or rights attached to it. The Attorney General's duties have long been considered strenuous, with Sir Patrick Hastings saying that \"to be a law officer is to be in hell\". Since the passing of the Law Officers Act 1997, any duties of the Attorney General can be delegated to the Solicitor General for England and Wales, and his or her actions are treated as coming from the Attorney General.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29743382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29743382", "title": "Australian Made logo", "text": "Australian Made logo\n\nThe Australian Made and Australian Grown trade mark logos signify products whose ingredients or production mostly originate from Australia. This programme was established in 1986 with a logo created by Ken Cato and is conducted by the Australian Made Campaign Limited, a not-for-profit public foundation created by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and various Australian business chambers.\n\nThe logo is accompanied by one of the following phrases, either Australian Grown, Australian Made or Product of Australia.\n\nIn the 1930s a group of businesses gathered up and created a media campaign to publicise Australian made products.\n\nIn 1961 a national campaign was launched by the various chambers of commerce and called \"Operation Boomerang\", a red boomerang on blue circle, this campaign was a direct forebear to the current Australian Made logo that utilises a stylised yellow kangaroo on a green triangle.\n\nFrom 1 July 2016, the Australian Government has changed food labelling laws to add a bar showing the percentage of Australian ingredients for any product made in Australia. Any business in Australia will have from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2018 to comply with the new rule.\n\nLocal purchasing is a preference to buy locally produced goods and services over those produced more distantly. In the context of the Australian Made and Australian Grown brands the purpose being to encourage consumers to exercise their preference for buying Australian, and promoting Australian products in Australia and markets around the world. The Australian Made logo represents a country of origin label.\n\nAnother non profit organisation within Australia is Ausbuy, that has a similar objective to promote Australian made products. Many countries have similar buy local initiatives such as Made in USA.\n\nA business launched in 2009 BuyAustralianMade promotes Australian made products, Australian grown produce and Australian delivered services. BuyAustralianMade's philosophy is that if one does not know what is made in Australia and where and how to buy it, they will not promote the product otherwise.\n\nThe logo has different variations on the text 'Australian made', depending on what in a certain product has originated from Australia. Here are the examples with their definitions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28035718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28035718", "title": "Avocats Sans Frontières", "text": "Avocats Sans Frontières\n\nAvocats Sans Frontières (ASF), also known as Advocaten Zonder Grenzen, is an international NGO, active in the human rights and development sector. Created in 1992 by a group of Belgian lawyers, ASF’s main objective is the realisation of institutions and mechanisms that facilitate access to independent and fair justice systems that ensure legal security and guarantee fundamental human rights for everyone.\n\nThe ambition of the first Lawyers Without Frontiers in 1992 was to lend assistance and/or to defend persons whose rights were not respected in their country, because the cases were ‘sensitive’. Between 1992 and 1996 countless missions for immediate assistance were realised. As part of the project ‘Solidarity and Defence’ (later renamed ‘Lawyer for Lawyer’), lawyers were sent abroad for several weeks to give assistance and/or intervene in sensitive cases.\n\nIn 1994 the genocide in Rwanda caused commotion within the international community. Even though ASF was not yet equipped for long-term interventions, it decided to take action anyway. Between 1995 and 1998 different trainings were realised in Arusha, Tanzania, to educate lawyers on the proceedings of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.\n\nFurthermore, there was the problem of a gross lack of lawyers in the country. During the genocide many people died, while others fled. The remaining lawyers could not or did not want to be involved in trials to convict the perpetrators. To answer this problem ASF started the program ‘Rights for Everyone in Rwanda’. To realise this program, ASF opened its first permanent mission abroad in Rwanda.\n\nThe necessity to execute a long-term detailed project facilitates ASF’s growth into an international organisation. Besides the initial mission for direct assistance and defence of people, ASF sets itself another goal: to contribute, as an independent actor, to a more just and equitable society, in which the law serves the most vulnerable people.\n\nIn this respect, ASF opens new missions in Burundi (1999), Kosovo (2000), the Democratic Republic of Congo (2000), Timor-Leste (2000), Uganda (2007), en Nepal (2010).\n\nAvocats Sans Frontières (ASF), also known as Advocaten Zonder Grenzen (AdZG) is an international non-governmental organization contributing to the creation of fair and equitable societies, in which the law and its institutions serve the most vulnerable groups and individuals. ASF aims to realise this objective through field interventions in the areas of access to justice, legal aid and legal assistance before both national and international jurisdictions, such as the International Criminal Court.\n\nASF uses the law to serve the most vulnerable people: e.g. minors, women, persons illegally imprisoned, victims of human rights violationsm and any individual or group unable to access justice.\n\nASF currently has field offices in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Nepal and Uganda and projects in Israel/Palestinian territories, Colombia, Chad and Tunisia. The organisation also works on thematic issues such as access to justice, defending the 'defenders', international criminal justice, strategic litigation, and economic and social rights.\n\nIn the countries of intervention, ASF teams work in close collaboration with local partners (lawyers, bar associations and civil society organisations). The legal professionals in the International Legal Network (ILN) support ASF missions on ad hoc basis.\n\nWhere the legal aid system is inadequate or absent, the most vulnerable populations have limited access to courts and other mechanisms used for resolving disputes. Their right to fair and equitable justice is at risk.\n\nTogether with local partners, ASF develops and establishes mechanisms, tailored to the local situation, improving access to justice for the most vulnerable populations. We organize awareness campaigns amongst the local population to improve knowledge on their rights. Our legal aid centres offer free legal information, advice and referrals. ASF lawyers are available to help the most vulnerable. If needed, mobile courts are organised to ensure access to justice in remote and rural areas.\n\nFinally, ASF strengthens the capacity of local NGOs and bar associations by providing structural support and regular training.\n\nASF intervenes in cases where lawyers and human rights defenders are threatened, criminalised, harassed or even killed. ASF intervenes in these cases by providing legal and/or material aid to the victim, or serves as an observer at their trial.\n\nASF also supports local bar associations and human rights organisations through capacity building and advocacy.\n\nAn international justice system assures the protection of human rights and supports the restoration of victims’ dignity. ASF assists victims who wish to be represented before national and international courts that prosecute international crimes. In this context, ASF provides assistance to victims in several court cases pending before the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague.\n\nIntervening in a specific case not only contributes to ending injustice for the involved parties, but can also serve – by changing the law – greater public interest.\n\nASF intervenes for the benefit of vulnerable people in emblematic cases through negotiation, mediation and/or taking a case to court for groups such as child soldiers, victims of human trafficking, torture or mistreatment, threatened journalists, etc.\n\nEconomic and social rights, such as the rights to decent work conditions, the highest attainable standard of health, education, adequate standard of living including access to land, food and water, are typically violated as a result of lack of political will, negligence and/or discrimination. \nASF provides legal assistance to vulnerable communities to ensure that they have equal access to legal mechanisms in their interactions with more powerful actors (State and non-State), to ensure that people know their rights and are empowered to use them. ASF works with communities to encourage legislative reform through advocacy and, if need be, strategic litigation.\n\nCreated by Avocats Sans Frontières (ASF) in 2010, the ILN brings together legal professionals from around the world eager to share their expertise and participate in activities to ensure that the law is a driving force for sustainable change.\n\nMembers of the ILN take part in ASF interventions in countries where justice is inaccessible or where there are few security guarantees for vulnerable populations. They contribute to developing mechanisms and actions for strengthening judicial stakeholders and improving access to justice.\n\nWith a strong emphasis on solidarity, members of the ILN perform their missions in accordance with pro bono conditions: voluntary work, constantly ensuring quality of services that benefit the most vulnerable people. The ILN offers a lasting partnership for law firms and other legal professionals wishing to develop their pro bono activities.\n\nIn 2007, ASF was granted the CCBE Human Rights Award by the Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe.\n\nIn 2009, ASF won the Law and Sustainability Prize of the Association of Flemish Jurists.\n\nAvocats Sans Frontières has no affiliation with \"Lawyers Without Borders\". Its Dutch name is \"Advocaten Zonder Grenzen\"; the organization does not carry an English name. Avocats Sans Frontières is also commonly known by its abbreviation \"ASF\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36519561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36519561", "title": "Bowen v. Kendrick", "text": "Bowen v. Kendrick\n\nBowen v. Kendrick, 487 U.S. 589 (1988), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court upheld the constitutionality of the Adolescent Family Life Act.\n\nThe Adolescent Family Life Act was implemented by the United States Congress in 1981 as an amendment to the Public Health Service Act. The purpose behind this statute was to combat the social and economic consequences associated with pregnancy and childbirth among unmarried youths. The statute sought to achieve this goal by promoting “… adolescent premarital sexual abstinence, adoption as an alternative to early parenting, parenting and child development education, and comprehensive health, education, and social services…” In order to effectively promote these behaviors and services, the statute permitted federal funds to go toward public and private organizations that offer services and research toward premarital adolescent sexual relations and pregnancy. One of the statute’s provisions required that AFLA grants may not be given to programs that provide abortion counseling, nor to programs that promote abortion as a valid means of birth control.\n\nIn 1983, a group of federal taxpayers, clergymen, and the American Jewish Congress filed suit against Otis R. Bowen, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, arguing that the Adolescent Family Life Act violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The Establishment Clause forbids Congress from passing laws “… respecting an establishment of religion…” As a result of the AFLA, federal grants were distributed to religious organizations that encourage adolescents to refrain from involvement in sexual relationships. The plaintiffs argued that federal funds directed towards religiously affiliated organizations have the effect of advancing religion and thus are unconstitutional.\n\nWhen deciding this case, the United States Supreme Court applied the three-part test set forth by \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\". According to this test, a statute will be upheld if it can satisfy each of the following three parts: 1) the statute has a secular legislative purpose, 2) its primary effect neither advances nor inhibits religion, and 3) it does not excessively entangle government with religion. The Court first held that the Adolescent Family Life Act had a secular purpose, as it was enacted to combat the social and economic problems associated with teenage sexuality, pregnancy, and parenthood, with no reference to religious matters. Second, the Court found that the extent to which this statute advances religion is “incidental and remote” at most. The statute does not require that any grant recipients be affiliated with a religious organization and the services that the act provides are not themselves religiously motivated. Lastly, the Court found that the statute does not excessively entangle government with religion because it requires that the grants be monitored to ensure that the federal funds are being spent in the manner intended by Congress. Therefore, since the Court found that the Adolescent Family Life Act satisfies all three parts of the \"Lemon\" test, the statute’s constitutionality was upheld.\n\nOn January 19, 1993 the parties agreed to a settlement regarding the federal funds distributed by the Adolescent Family Life Act. The settlement required that sexuality education funded by the Act “… may not include religious references, may not be offered in a site used for religious worship services, or offered in sites with religious iconography.”\n\n"}
{"id": "30491832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30491832", "title": "Center of Official Publications (Albania)", "text": "Center of Official Publications (Albania)\n\nThe Center of Official Publications (QBZ) () is a government entity that serves as the official journal of the Republic of Albania.\n\nAs a subordinate institution of the Ministry of Justice, QBZ is responsible for the publication of acts, printed publications of updated codes and summaries of legislation (by topic), the keeping and non-publication of data, laws and other acts, until they are published in the Official Journal or the Official Announcement Bulletin.\n"}
{"id": "3262111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262111", "title": "Chief magistrate", "text": "Chief magistrate\n\nChief magistrate is a public official, executive or judicial, whose office is the highest in its class. Historically, the two different meanings of magistrate have often overlapped and refer to, as the case may be, to a major political and administrative officer (usually at a subnational or colonial level) or a judge and barrister.\n\nIf the jurisdiction he or she heads is considered to have statehood (sovereign or not), the official is generally its head of state and (in various degrees of authority) chief executive. However, the precise meaning depends upon the particular circumstances where it is given.\n\nChief magistratures in antiquity include the following titles:\n\nChief magistratures in the feudal era (and sometimes beyond) include the following titles:\n\n\"Chief magistrate\" is also used as a generic term in English for the various offices in the role of head of state of the various Swiss (confederal) cantons, with such styles as Landamman.\n\n\nReferences to the President of the United States as \"Chief Magistrate\" were common in the early years of U.S. existence, although use of the term is rare today. In 1793, George Washington described himself as his country's \"Chief Magistrate\" in his second inaugural address. In 1800, Alexander Hamilton wrote in a private letter to Aaron Burr, later published by Burr with his permission, that he considered John Adams \"unfit for the office of Chief Magistrate.\" James Monroe told the 18th Congress, shortly before leaving office in a House report dated February 21, 1825, \"By the duties of this office, the great interests of the nation are placed, in their most important branches, under the care of the Chief Magistrate.\" Abraham Lincoln referred to the President as chief magistrate in his first inaugural address in 1861. In 1908, Woodrow Wilson remarked, \"Men of ordinary physique and discretion cannot be Presidents and live, if the strain cannot be somehow relieved. We shall be obliged to always be picking our chief magistrates from among wise and prudent athletes, a small class.\" Wilson was himself elected President four years later.\n\nIn the British Interregnum and during the existence of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland, the Lord Protector was referred to as 'Chief Magistrate' in the state's two major constitutional documents: the Instrument of Government (1653) and the Humble Petition and Advice (1657).\n\nUnlike the previous section, this does not require any political autonomy for the jurisdiction, so there can be additional circonscriptions, even created solely for the administration of justice. It is not uncommon for magistratures to perform additional functions separate from litigation and arbitration, rather as a registrar or notary, but as these are not their defining core-business, they are irrelevant in the context of this article.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the Chief Magistrates Court in Colombo is the senior of the Magistrates Courts in the judicial division of Colombo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4907725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4907725", "title": "Copyright law of Ireland", "text": "Copyright law of Ireland\n\nCopyright law of Ireland is applicable to most typical copyright situations (films, sound recordings books etc.). Protection expires 70 years after the death of the author/creator. Irish law includes a provision for \"fair dealing,\" similar to that used by other countries. Nonetheless, Ireland may have a law similar to SOPA passed soon – and \"without Parliamentary vote.\" The Irish law is entitled, \"S.I. No. 337/2011 – European Communities (Electronic Communications Networks and Services) (Universal Service and Users' Rights) Regulations 2011.\"\n\nIrish copyright law is subject to EU directive \"2001/29/EC – Harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society\", most of the provisions of which were transposed into Irish law under the Copyright and Related Rights Act 2000. Irish copyright law was brought into further compliance with the EU directive by the amendment act \"European Communities (Copyright and Related Rights) Regulations 2004\".\n\nThe 2000 Act repeals much earlier Irish copyright law, but not all. Related acts are referenced in section 10 of the 2000 Act, and these may also be accessed online in the Irish Statute Book.\n\nUntil 93/98/EEC the term of copyright protection on a work was the life of the author and 50 years after death.\n\nFrom the foundation of the State to 1927, when the first Irish copyright law was passed, there were lacunae in Irish copyright law.\n\nBroadly, Irish copyright applies to books for seventy years from the end of the year of death of the author, editor or creator. The term for films is also seventy years, but the expiry conditions are more complex.\n\nUnless it is specifically stated in the contract commissioning the work, ownership will vest in the first owner of copyright which will be the person or organisation that was asked to create the work. Notwithstanding the ownership of the copyright, where the employer is a newspaper or periodical, the author may use the work freely for any purpose other than publication in another newspaper or periodical.\n\nWhere a work is genuinely anonymous or pseudonymous, copyright expires seventy years from the end of the year of creation.\n\nSound recordings, and broadcast and cable programmes, are protected for fifty years from first transmission. [Musicians' copyright was recently extended from 50 to 70 years by the Irish Government]\nThe arrangement of a publication is protected for fifty years.\n\nAny work created by any officer or employee of the Irish Government or State is protected by Government copyright, which is regulated somewhat differently from general Irish copyright law, and which lasts fifty years from the end of the year in which the work is created. The position of State companies is not clear, so, for example, Ordnance Survey mapping up to the reconstitution of OSi as a state company is copyright for fifty years, while mapping published after that time may, or may not, be subject to a longer term.\n\nSince 2005 Government organisations, local authorities and state-sponsored bodies are obliged by law to have a permissive reuse policy for copyrighted material under the Directive on the re-use of public sector information. The Government has a dedicated website on the re-use of public sector information at psi.gov.ie.\n\nAny Bill or Act of the Oireachtas is protected by Oireachtas copyright for fifty years from the end of the year in which it was made available lawfully to the public. Any work made by or under the direction of a House or Houses of the Oireachtas enjoys similar protection, the copyright vesting in the relevant House, or Houses jointly.\n\nDespite most DVDs' and video cassettes' copyright warnings in Ireland claiming that performance in schools is prohibited, Irish copyright law has a provision that showing \"for the purposes of instruction\" (i.e. for educational purposes) does not constitute infringement of the copyright of the work.\n\nA work whose copyright term is not calculated from the author's death and which is not lawfully made available to the public within 70 years of creation, loses copyright protection.\n\nThe publisher of any publication in Ireland must deliver within one month of publication copies of the work to the National Library of Ireland, the British Library, and the Libraries of Trinity College Dublin, DCU, UL, and of the four constituent universities of the National University of Ireland; these nine bodies do not need to request such copies. Where such a publication is a serial work, a copy of every issue must be provided. In addition, four other libraries, those of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and the National Libraries of Scotland and Wales, may require copies to be provided to them. All of the named bodies may also require an electronic copy of the work, which must be provided if it exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1329951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1329951", "title": "Craig v. Boren", "text": "Craig v. Boren\n\nCraig v. Boren, 429 U.S. 190 (1976), was the first case in which a majority of the United States Supreme Court determined that statutory or administrative sex classifications were subject to intermediate scrutiny under the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause.\n\nOklahoma passed a statute prohibiting the sale of \"nonintoxicating\" 3.2% beer to males under the age of 21 but allowed females over the age of 18 to purchase it. The statute was challenged as Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause violation by Curtis Craig, a male who was over 18 but under 21, and Carolyn Whitener, an Oklahoma vendor of alcohol. The nominal defendant was David Boren, who was sued \"ex officio\" by virtue of his serving as Governor of Oklahoma at the time of the lawsuit. Ruth Bader Ginsburg, working as an attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, advised the plaintiff's attorney, submitted an amicus brief, and was present at counsel table during oral argument before the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court was called upon to determine whether a statute that denied the sale of beer to individuals of the same age based on their gender violated the Equal Protection Clause. Also, the Supreme Court examined for \"jus tertii\" (third-party rights), in this case the vendor of the 3.2% beer.\n\nJustice William J. Brennan delivered the opinion of the Court in which he was joined by Justices White, Marshall, Powell and Stevens (Justice Blackmun joined all but one part of the opinion, and Blackmun, Powell, Stevens, and Stewart wrote concurrences).\n\nThe Court held that the gender classifications made by the Oklahoma statute were unconstitutional because the statistics relied on by the state were insufficient to show a substantial relationship between the statute and the benefits intended to stem from it.\n\nThe Court instituted a standard, dubbed \"intermediate scrutiny,\" under which the state must prove the existence of specific important governmental objectives, and the law must be substantially related to the achievement of those objectives.\n\nAs to third-party rights, the court, expanding on the doctrine of standing, held that the vendors of 3.2% beer would be economically affected by the restrictive nature of the sales to males between 18 and 20. To have standing, one must show a \"nexus\" of the injury to oneself and the constitutional violation of the statute. In this case, the statute directly affected Whitener only economically, but the Supreme Court explained that Whitener and other vendors have standing to assert concomitant rights of other parties, such as Craig.\n\nThe Court acknowledged that parties economically affected by regulations may challenge them \"by acting as advocates of the rights of third parties who seek access to their market or function.\"\n\nJustice Blackmun wrote a concurring opinion, agreeing that a higher standard of scrutiny was appropriate.\n\nChief Justice Burger and Justice Rehnquist dissented.\n\nRehnquist dissented because he felt that the law needed to pass only \"rational basis,\" as previous cases in the area, such as \"Stanton v. Stanton\", had used only the \"rational basis\" test.\n\nBurger was \"in general agreement with Mr. Justice Rehnquist's dissent\" but penned a separate dissent to emphasize that \"a litigant may only assert his own constitutional rights or immunities.\" He felt that the indirect economic injury to Whitener and other vendors introduced \"a new concept of constitutional standing to which I cannot subscribe.\"\n\n\n\n Daddy\n"}
{"id": "30966640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966640", "title": "Customs duties in the United States", "text": "Customs duties in the United States\n\nThe United States imposes tariffs (customs duties) on imports of goods. The duty is levied at the time of import and is paid by the importer of record. Customs duties vary by country of origin and product. Goods from many countries are exempt from duty under various trade agreements. Certain types of goods are exempt from duty regardless of source. Customs rules differ from other import restrictions. Failure to properly comply with customs rules can result in seizure of goods and criminal penalties against involved parties. The United States Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) enforces customs rules.\n\nGoods may be imported to the United States subject to import restrictions. Importers of goods may be subject to tax (“customs duty” or “tariff”) on the imported value of the goods. “Imported goods are not legally entered until after the shipment has arrived within the port of entry, delivery of the merchandise has been authorized by CBP, and estimated duties have been paid.” Importation and declaration and payment of customs duties is done by the importer of record, which may be the owner of the goods, the purchaser, or a licensed customs broker. Goods may be stored in a bonded warehouse or a Foreign-Trade Zone in the United States for up to five years without payment of duties.\n\nGoods must be declared for entry into the U.S. within 15 days of arrival or prior to leaving a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone. The importer of record declares the transaction value of the goods and country of origin, along with other information. The declarations must include an invoice and packing list (or equivalent) listing all goods. CBP then assesses duty, which must be paid by the importer of record before goods can be released. Many importers participate in a voluntary self-assessment program with CBP. Special rules apply to goods imported by mail.\n\nAll goods imported into the United States are subject to inspection by CBP.\n\nSome goods may be temporarily imported to the United States under a system similar to the ATA Carnet system. Examples include laptop computers used by persons traveling in the U.S. and samples used by salesmen.\n\nRates of tax on transaction values vary by country of origin. Goods must be individually labeled to indicate country of origin, with exceptions for specific types of goods. Rules of origin are used to determine the country of origin. Goods are considered to originate in the country with the highest rate of duties for the particular goods unless the goods meet certain minimum content requirements. These minimum content requirements may vary under certain trade agreements or special arrangements. Reduced rates of duty apply under these agreements and arrangements for certain classes or subclasses of goods in certain circumstances. Extensive modifications to normal duties and classifications apply to goods originating in Canada or Mexico under the North American Free Trade Agreement.\n\nAll goods that are not exempt are subject to duty computed according to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule for the United States. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule provides the applicable tariff rates and statistical categories for all merchandise imported into the United States. This lengthy schedule provides rates of duty for each class of goods. Most goods are classified based on the nature of the goods, though some classifications are based on use.\n\nCustoms duty rates may be expressed as a percentage of value or dollars and cents per unit. Rates based on value vary from zero to 20% in the 2011 schedule. Rates may be based on relevant units for the particular type of goods (per ton, per kilogram, per square meter, etc.). Some duties are based in part on value and in part on quantity. The United States applies a Customs tariff that is among the lowest in the world: 3% on average.\n\nWhere goods subject to different rates of duty are commingled, the entire shipment may be taxed at the highest applicable duty rate.\n\nMany categories of goods are subject to zero customs duty. Such goods must still be declared. Some goods and goods from some countries are exempt from duty. These reductions of duty are based on classification and origin.\n\nImported goods are generally accompanied by a bill of lading or air waybill describing the goods. For purposes of customs duty assessment, they must also be accompanied by an invoice documenting the transaction value. The goods on the bill of lading and invoice are classified and duty is computed by the importer or CBP. The amount of this duty is payable immediately, and must be paid before the goods can be imported. Most assessments of goods are now done by the importer and documentation filed with CBP electronically.\n\nAfter duties have been paid, CBP approves the goods for import. They can then be removed from the port of entry, bonded warehouse, or Foreign-Trade Zone.\n\nAfter duty has been paid on particular goods, the importer can seek a refund of duties if the goods are exported without substantial modification. The process of claiming a refund is known as duty drawback.\n\nCertain civil penalties apply for failures to follow CBP rules and pay duty. In addition, goods of persons subject to such penalties may be seized and sold by CBP. In addition, criminal penalties may apply for certain offenses. Criminal penalties may be as high as twice the value of the goods plus twenty years in jail.\n\nForeign-trade Zones are secure areas physically in the United States but legally outside the customs territory of the United States. Goods in a Foreign-Trade Zone are not considered imported to the United States until they leave the zone. Foreign goods may be used to manufacture other goods within the zone for export without payment of customs duties. Zones are limited in scope and operation based on approval of the Foreign-Trade Zones Board. Zones are generally near ports of entry, and may be within the warehouse of an importer.\n\n"}
{"id": "140281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140281", "title": "Deregulation", "text": "Deregulation\n\nDeregulation is the process of removing or reducing state regulations, typically in the economic sphere. It is the repeal of governmental regulation of the economy. It became common in advanced industrial economies in the 1970s and 1980s, as a result of new trends in economic thinking about the inefficiencies of government regulation, and the risk that regulatory agencies would be controlled by the regulated industry to its benefit, and thereby hurt consumers and the wider economy.\n\nEconomic regulations were promoted during the Gilded Age, in which progressive reforms were touted as necessary to limit externalities like corporate abuse, unsafe child labor, monopolization, pollution, and to mitigate boom and bust cycles. Around the late 1970s, such reforms were deemed as burdensome on economic growth and many politicians espousing neoliberalism started promoting deregulation.\n\nThe stated rationale for deregulation is often that fewer and simpler regulations will lead to raised levels of competitiveness, therefore higher productivity, more efficiency and lower prices overall. Opposition to deregulation may usually involve apprehension regarding environmental pollution and environmental quality standards (such as the removal of regulations on hazardous materials), financial uncertainty, and constraining monopolies.\n\nRegulatory reform is a parallel development alongside deregulation. Regulatory reform refers to organized and ongoing programs to review regulations with a view to minimizing, simplifying, and making them more cost effective. Such efforts, given impetus by the \"Regulatory Flexibility Act\" of 1980, are embodied in the United States Office of Management and Budget's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, and the United Kingdom's Better Regulation Commission. Cost–benefit analysis is frequently used in such reviews. In addition, there have been regulatory innovations, usually suggested by economists, such as emissions trading.\n\nDeregulation can be distinguished from privatization, where privatization can be seen as taking state-owned service providers into the private sector.\n\nArgentina underwent heavy economic deregulation, privatization, and had a fixed exchange rate during the Menem administration (1989–1999). In December 2001, Paul Krugman compared Enron with Argentina, claiming that both were experiencing economic collapse due to excessive deregulation. Two months later, Herbert Inhaber claimed that Krugman confused correlation with causation, and neither collapse was due to excessive deregulation.\n\nHaving announced a wide range of deregulatory policies, Labor Prime Minister Bob Hawke announced the policy of \"Minimum Effective Regulation\" in 1986. This introduced now familiar requirements for \"regulatory impact statements\", but compliance by governmental agencies took many years. The labour market under the Hawke/Keating Labor governments operated under an accord. John Howard's Liberal Party of Australia in 1996 began deregulation of the labor market, subsequently taken much further in 2005 through their WorkChoices policy. However, it was reversed under the following Rudd Labor government.\n\nNatural gas is deregulated in most of the country, with the exception of some Atlantic provinces and some pockets like Vancouver Island and Medicine Hat. Most of this deregulation happened in the mid-1980s. There is price comparison service operating in some of these jurisdictions, particularly Ontario, Alberta and BC. The other provinces are small markets and have not attracted suppliers. Customers have the choice of purchasing from a local distribution company (LDC) or a deregulated supplier. In most provinces the LDC is not allowed to offer a term contract, just a variable price based on the spot market. LDC prices are changed either monthly or quarterly.\n\nThe province of Ontario began deregulation of electricity supply in 2002, but pulled back temporarily due to voter and consumer backlash at the resulting price volatility. The government is still searching for a stable working regulatory framework.\n\nThe current status is a partially regulated structure in which consumers have received a capped price for a portion of the publicly owned generation. The remainder of the price has been market price based and there are numerous competitive energy contract providers. However, Ontario is installing Smart Meters in all homes and small businesses and is changing the pricing structure to Time of Use pricing. All small volume consumers are to be shifted to the new rate structure by the end of 2012. There is price comparison service operating in these jurisdictions.\n\nThe province of Alberta has deregulated their electricity provision. Customers are free to choose which company they sign up with, but there are few companies to choose from and the price of electricity has increased substantially for consumers because the market is too small to support competition. If they choose they may remain with the utility at the Regulated Rate Option.\n\nFormer Premier Ralph Klein based the entire deregulation scheme on the Enron model, and continued with it even after the highly publicized and disastrous California electricity crisis (and the collapse of Enron because of illegal accounting practices.)\n\n\nThe taxi industry was deregulated in Ireland leading to an influx of new taxis. This was due to the price of a licence dropping overnight. The number of taxis increased dramatically.\n\nThe Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher started a program of deregulation and privatisation after the general election of 1979. These included express coach (\"Transport Act 1980\"), British Telecom (completed in 1984), privatisation of London bus services (1984), local bus services (\"Transport Act 1985\") and the railways (1993). The feature of all those privatisations was that their shares were offered to the general public.\n\nSince 1997 the Labour governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown developed a programme of what they called \"better regulation\". This included a general programme for government departments to review, simplify or abolish their existing regulations, and a \"one in, one out\" approach to new regulations. In 1997, The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the \"freeing\" of the Bank of England to set monetary policy. They freed the Bank of England from direct government control and removed the power by the Bank of England (and therefore by the government) from controlling the financial activities of banks in the UK. In 2006, new primary legislation (the \"Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006\") was introduced to establish statutory principles and a code of practice and it permits ministers to make Regulatory Reform Orders (RROs) to deal with older laws which they deem to be out of date, obscure or irrelevant. This act has often been criticised and called \"The abolition of Parliament Act\".\n\nThe Labour governments did not privatise many publicly owned services because most had been privatised by the previous government. However, some government-owned businesses such as Qinetiq were privatised. But a great deal of infrastructure and maintenance work previously carried out by government departments was contracted out (out-sourced) to private enterprise under the public–private partnership, with competitive bidding for contracts within a regulatory framework. This included large projects such as building new hospitals for the National Health Service, building new state schools, and maintaining the London Underground. These privatisations were never offered to the general public to buy shares, they were all offered to commercial companies only.\n\nNew Zealand Governments adopted policies of extensive deregulation from 1984 to 1995. Originally initiated by the Fourth Labour Government of New Zealand, the policies of deregulation were later continued by the Fourth National Government of New Zealand. The policies had the goal of liberalising the economy and were notable for their very comprehensive coverage and innovations. Specific policies included: floating the exchange rate; establishing an independent reserve bank; performance contracts for senior civil servants; public sector finance reform based on accrual accounting; tax neutrality; subsidy-free agriculture; and industry-neutral competition regulation. Economic growth was resumed in 1991. New Zealand was changed from a somewhat closed and centrally controlled economy to one of the most open economies in the OECD. As a result, New Zealand, went from having a reputation as an almost socialist country to being considered one of the most business-friendly countries of the world, next to Singapore. However, critics charge that the deregulation has brought little benefit to some sections of society, and has caused much of New Zealand's economy (including almost all of the banks) to become foreign-owned.\n\nRussia went through wide-ranging deregulation (and concomitant privatization) efforts in the late 1990s under Boris Yeltsin, now partially reversed under Vladimir Putin. The main thrust of deregulation has been the electricity sector (see RAO UES), with railroads and communal utilities tied in second place. Deregulation of the natural gas sector (Gazprom) is one of the more frequent demands placed upon Russia by the United States and European Union.\n\nOne problem that encouraged deregulation was the way in which the regulated industries often controlled the government regulatory agencies, using them to serve the industries' interests. Even where regulatory bodies started out functioning independently, a process known as regulatory capture often saw industry interests come to dominate those of the consumer. A similar pattern has been observed with the deregulation process itself, often effectively controlled by the regulated industries through lobbying the legislative process. Such political forces, however, exist in many other forms for other special interest groups. Some of the examples of deregulation in the United States in the setting of industries are banking, telecommunications, airlines, and natural resources.\n\nDuring the Progressive Era (1890s–1920), Presidents Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson instituted regulation on parts of the American economy, most notably in regulating big business and industry. Some of their most prominent reforms are trust-busting (the destruction and banning of monopolies), the creation of laws protecting the American consumer, the creation of a federal income tax (by the Sixteenth Amendment; the income tax used a progressive tax structure with especially high taxes on the wealthy), the establishment of the Federal Reserve, and the institution of shorter working hours, higher wages, better living conditions, better rights and privileges to trade unions, protection of rights of strikers, banning of unfair labor practices, and the delivery of more social services to the working classes and social safety nets to many unemployed workers, thus helping to facilitate the creation of a welfare state in the United States and eventually in most developed countries.\n\nDuring the Presidencies of Warren Harding (1921–23) and Calvin Coolidge (1923–29), the federal government generally pursued laissez-faire economic policies. After the onset of the Great Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt implemented many economic regulations, including the \"National Industrial Recovery Act\" (which was struck down by the Supreme Court), regulation of trucking, airlines and the communications industry, the institution of the \"Securities Exchange Act of 1934\", and the \"Glass–Steagall Act\", which was passed in 1933. These 1930s regulations stayed largely in place until Richard Nixon's Administration. In supporting his competition-limiting regulatory initiatives President Roosevelt blamed the excesses of big business for causing an economic bubble. However, historians lack consensus in describing the causal relationship between various events and the role of government economic policy in causing or ameliorating the Depression.\n\nDeregulation gained momentum in the 1970s, influenced by research by the Chicago school of economics and the theories of George Stigler and others. The new ideas were widely embraced by both liberals and conservatives. Two leading 'think tanks' in Washington, the Brookings Institution and the American Enterprise Institute, were active in holding seminars and publishing studies advocating deregulatory initiatives throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Cornell economist Alfred E. Kahn played a central role in both theorizing and participating in the Carter Administration's efforts to deregulate transportation.\n\nThe first comprehensive proposal to deregulate a major industry in the United States, transportation, originated in the Richard Nixon Administration and was forwarded to Congress in late 1971. This proposal was initiated and developed by an interagency group that included the Council of Economic Advisors (represented by Hendrik Houthakker and Thomas Gale Moore), White House Office of Consumer Affairs (represented by Jack Pearce), Department of Justice, Department of Transportation, Department of Labor, and other agencies.\n\nThe proposal addressed both rail and truck transportation, but not air carriage. (92d Congress, Senate Bill 2842) The developers of this legislation in this Administration sought to cultivate support from commercial buyers of transportation services, consumer organizations, economists, and environmental organization leaders. This 'civil society' coalition became a template for coalitions influential in efforts to deregulate trucking and air transport later in the decade.\n\nAfter Nixon left office, the Gerald Ford presidency, with the allied interests, secured passage of the first significant change in regulatory policy in a pro-competitive direction, in the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976. President Jimmy Carter devoted substantial effort to transportation deregulation, and worked with Congressional and civil society leaders to pass the Airline Deregulation Act (October 24, 1978), Staggers Rail Act (signed October 14, 1980), and the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 (signed July 1, 1980).\n\nThese were the major deregulation acts in transportation that set the general conceptual and legislative framework, which replaced the regulatory systems put in place between the 1880s and the 1930s. The dominant common theme of these Acts was to lessen barriers to entry in transport markets and promote more independent, competitive pricing among transport service providers, substituting the freed-up competitive market forces for detailed regulatory control of entry, exit, and price making in transport markets. Thus deregulation arose, though regulations to promote competition were put in place.\n\nU.S. President Ronald Reagan campaigned on the promise of rolling back environmental regulations. His devotion to the economic\nbeliefs of Milton Friedman led him to promote the deregulation of finance, agriculture, and transportation. A series of substantial enactments were needed to work out the process of encouraging competition in transportation. Interstate buses were addressed in 1982, in the \"Bus Regulatory Reform Act\" of 1982. Freight forwarders (freight aggregators) got more freedoms in the \"Surface Freight Forwarder Deregulation Act of 1986\". As many states continued to regulate the operations of motor carriers within their own state, the intrastate aspect of the trucking and bus industries was addressed in the \"Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994\", which provided that \"a State, political subdivision of a State, or political authority of two or more States may not enact or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having the force and effect of law related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier.\" (c)(1) (Supp. V 1999).\n\nOcean transportation was the last to be addressed. This was done in two acts, the \"Ocean Shipping Act of 1984\" and the \"Ocean Shipping Reform Act of 1998\". These acts were less thoroughgoing than the legislation dealing with U.S. domestic transportation, in that they left in place the \"conference\" system in international ocean liner shipping, which historically embodied cartel mechanisms. However, these acts permitted independent rate-making by conference participants, and the 1998 Act permitted secret contract rates, which tend to undercut collective carrier pricing. According to the United States Federal Maritime Commission, in an assessment in 2001, this appears to have opened up substantial competitive activity in ocean shipping, with beneficial economic results.\n\nThe \"Airline Deregulation Act\" is an example of a deregulatory act whose success has been questioned. Since deregulation, real prices for air travel has fallen by more than half, and travellers have more options; but there have been questions about disruptions, employee pensions and the lack of small city service.\n\nThe \"Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act\" was a regulating law, consisting of a mix of regulations and deregulation, which passed in response to OPEC price hikes and domestic price controls which affected the 1973 oil crisis in the United States. After adoption of this federal legislation, numerous state legislation known as Natural Gas Choice programs have sprung up in several states, as well as the District of Columbia. Natural Gas Choice programs allow residential and small volume natural gas users to compare purchases from natural gas suppliers with traditional utility companies. There are currently hundreds of federally unregulated natural gas suppliers operating in the US. Regulation characteristics of Natural Gas Choice programs vary between the laws of the currently adoptive 21 states (as of 2008).\n\nDeregulation was put into effect in the communications industry by the government at the start of the Multi-Channel Transition era. This deregulation put into place a division of labor between the studios and the networks. Communications in the United States (and internationally) are areas in which both technology and regulatory policy have been in flux. The rapid development of computer and communications technology – particularly the Internet – have increased the size and variety of communications offerings. Wireless, traditional landline telephone, and cable companies increasingly invade each other's traditional markets and compete across a broad spectrum of activities. The Federal Communications Commission and Congress appear to be attempting to facilitate this evolution. In mainstream economic thinking, development of this competition would militate against detailed regulatory control of prices and service offerings, and hence favor deregulation of prices and entry into markets. On the other hand, there exists substantial concern about concentration of media ownership resulting from relaxation of historic controls on media ownership designed to safeguard diversity of viewpoint and open discussion in the society, and about what some perceive as high prices in cable company offerings at this point.\n\nThe financial sector in the U.S. has evolved a great deal in recent decades, during which there have been some regulatory changes and the creation of new financial products such as the securitization of loan obligations of various sorts and credit default swaps. Among the most important of the regulatory changes was the \"Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act\" in 1980, which repealed the parts of the \"Glass–Steagall Act\" regarding interest rate regulation via retail banking. The \"Financial Services Modernization Act\" of 1999 repealed part of the \"Glass–Steagall Act\" of 1933, removing barriers in the market among banking companies, securities companies and insurance companies that prohibited any one institution from acting as any combination of an investment bank, a commercial bank, and an insurance company.\n\n\nThe deregulation movement of the late 20th century had substantial economic effects and engendered substantial controversy. As preceding sections of this article indicate, the movement was based on intellectual perspectives which prescribed substantial scope for market forces, and opposing perspectives have been in play in national and international discourse.\n\nThe movement toward greater reliance on market forces has been closely related to the growth of economic and institutional globalization between about 1950 and 2010.\n\nCritics of economic liberalisation and deregulation cite the benefits of regulation, and believe that certain regulations do not distort markets and allows companies to continue to be competitive, or according to some, grow in competition. Much as the state plays an important role through issues such as property rights, appropriate regulation is argued by some to be \"crucial to realise the benefits of service liberalisation\".\n\nCritics of deregulation often cite the need of regulation in order to:\n\n\nMany economists have concluded that a trend towards deregulation will increase economic welfare long-term and a sustainable free market system. Regarding the electricity market, contemporary academic Adam Thierer, \"The first step toward creating a free market in electricity is to repeal the federal statutes and regulations that hinder electricity competition and consumer choice.\" This viewpoint stretches back centuries. Perhaps the most famous economist of all, Adam Smith, argued the benefits of deregulation in his seminal work, The Wealth of Nations:[Without trade restrictions] the obvious and simple system of natural liberty establishes itself of its own accord. Every man...is left perfectly free to pursue his own interest in his own way... The sovereign is completely discharged from a duty [for which] no human wisdom or knowledge could ever be sufficient; the duty of superintending the industry of private people, and of directing it towards the employments most suitable to the interest of the society.Scholars who theorize that deregulation is beneficial to society often cite what is known as the Iron Law of Regulation, which states that all regulation eventually leads to a net loss in social welfare.\n\nSharon Beder, a writer with PR Watch, wrote \"Electricity deregulation was supposed to bring cheaper electricity prices and more choice of suppliers to householders. Instead it has brought wildly volatile wholesale prices and undermined the reliability of the electricity supply.\"\n\nWilliam K. Black claims that inappropriate deregulation helped create a criminogenic environment in the savings and loan industry, which attracted opportunistic control frauds like Charles Keating, whose massive political campaign contributions were used successfully to further remove regulatory oversight. The combination substantially delayed effective governmental action, thereby substantially increasing the losses when the fraudulent Ponzi schemes finally collapsed and were exposed. After the collapse, regulators in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) were finally allowed to file thousands of criminal complaints that led to over a thousand felony convictions of key Savings and Loan insiders. By contrast, between 2007 and 2010, the OCC and OTS combined made zero criminal referrals; Black concluded that elite financial fraud has effectively been decriminalized.\n\nEconomist Jayati Ghosh is of the opinion that deregulation is responsible for increasing price volatility on the commodity market. This particularly affects people and economies in developing countries. More and more homogenization of financial institution which may also be a result of deregulation turns out to be a major concern for small-scale producers in those countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23599825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599825", "title": "Development easement", "text": "Development easement\n\nA development easement is a legal agreement by which a landowner surrenders the right to develop a designated parcel of property. Some local and state governments have programs to acquire development easements from private landowners to prevent conversion of farmland to other uses.\n"}
{"id": "39198603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39198603", "title": "Digital Future Coalition", "text": "Digital Future Coalition\n\nThe Digital Future Coalition (DFC) was a US-based copyright advocacy organization established in 1995. Founded by leading scholars and activists in the library and public interest world, DFC was a precursor to organizations like Public Knowledge and the Library Research Coalition. The organization emerged from a round table of legal scholars and library associations members convened by Peter Jaszi in fall of 1995 to review the Clinton Administration's White Paper on Intellectual Property and the National Information Infrastructure, authored by Bruce Lehman. That White Paper proposed a variety of new legislative approaches within copyright, generally broadening its scope and reach, and the roundtable discussion brought forward the notion of establishing a lobbying group to counter the commercial copyright interests' lobbying groups.\n\nThe DFC had at its peak at least 42 institutional members, drawn from library associations, scholarly societies, public interest groups, and IT-related commercial entities. The organization was active in the legislative debates and lobbying surrounding the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Copyright Term Extension Act, and proposed database protection legislation, and was instrumental in inserting limiting provisions and exceptions into the DMCA and CTEA, and in defeating the proposed database protection legislation. (See Database and Collections of Information Misappropriation Act, H.R. 3261, 108th Congress.)\n\n\nMembership rosters drawn from public comments and filings, but changed over time.\n"}
{"id": "48820570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48820570", "title": "Dignity for All Students Act", "text": "Dignity for All Students Act\n\nNew York State’s Dignity for All Students Act, also known as The Dignity Act, and most commonly referred to by its acronym, DASA, is legislation in the U.S. state of New York, established to provide a school environment free of discrimination and harassment. It was signed into law by former Governor David Paterson on September 13, 2010 but was not implemented in school districts statewide until July 1, 2012. \nThis act was first introduced to the New York State Senate in 1999 by Senator Thomas Duane. \"The Act to support student’s mental health at school and during school related events. It enforces a strict zero-tolerance policy for student discrimination, harassment, intimidation, taunting and bullying.\n\n\"The Dignity Act (Education Law §11[7]) defines \"harassment\" in terms of creating a hostile environment that unreasonably sustainably interferes with a student’s educational performance, opportunities or benefits, or mental, emotional or physical well-being or conduct, verbal threats, intimidation or abuse that reasonably causes or would reasonably be expected to cause a student to fear for his or her physical safety.\" This act holds students liable for making comments, either in person, on paper or through the internet on a student’s race, color, weight, ethnicity, religion, religious practices, disabilities, sexual orientation, gender or sex. The most important factor when deliberating if an act is harassment is a student’s intent. The Dignity Act states bullying is the intent to cause another individual pain and/or misery. This act establishes a precedent to follow throughout elementary and secondary schools in New York State and provides a response for the \"…large number of harassed and stigmatized students from skipping school and engaging in high risk behavior.\" In order to have a standardized response from all schools, The Dignity Act outlines the proper protocol to follow.\n\nThe laws enforced by The Dignity for All Students Act ordered school districts to \"revise their codes of conduct and adopt policies intended to create a school environment free from harassment and discrimination.\" All schools must partake in a professional training seminar on these issues in order to implement an effective harassment, bullying and discrimination prevention and intervention program. Additionally, one employee must be trained in \"non-discriminatory instructional and counseling methods and handling human relations.\" This act mandates that each individual account of bullying must be documented by the school district and an annual report titled, \"Reports of Incidents Concerning School Safety and the Educational Climate\" must be submitted. There are two parts to this report, the first pertaining to violent altercations and the second documenting individuals who violate the Dignity Act. These reports are due to the New York State Education Department (NYSED) at the end of school term.\n\nAccording to NYSED, it is the teacher’s responsibility to create a rich learning environment that is engaging and safe. This notion entails forming relationships with their students, making sure they are emotionally and physically looked after and that their environment is structuralized. Under DASA faculty must take collective actions enforcing the \"School Climate Improvement Process.\" This process requires preparation, evaluation, action, implementation and re-evaluation. Teachers work together to acknowledge what is wrong with their school’s climate, prioritize these concerns, enforce new policies and reevaluate this process as often as possible. NYSED states, \"Social and emotional learning helps students develop fundamental and effective life skills, including: recognizing and managing emotions; developing caring and concern for others; establishing positive relationships; making responsible decisions; and handling challenging situations constructively and ethically.\" A school's climate is one of the determining factors regarding the amount of bullying incidents are reported.\n\nNYSED explains that intention of the Dignity Act is not to enforce excess punishment throughout public schools, nor is punishment productive in stopping harassment and bullying. \"Rather it is recommended that strategies such as prevention, intervention, and graduated/progressive discipline be considered in addressing and correcting inappropriate behavior, while re-enforcing pro-social values among student.\" By working with students on the issues of bullying and harassment, student to student engagement occurs and this results in progression. DASA positions \"Student engagement is absolutely essential in creating a positive school culture and climate that effectively fosters student academic achievement and social/emotional growth. The quality of student life and the level of student engagement may be the best single indicator of potential or current school safety and security concerns as they pertain to student behavior.\" DASA aims to increase social connections between students in order to maintain a safe learning environment for all. This results in students bullying less, the ability to identify individual students who are being bullied, and an instilled responsibility to inform the necessary authorities when a peer is being teased. The Dignity Act explains, \"Whether himself / herself or they have witnessed another student being bullied, s/he needs to feel empowered, comfortable, and safe reporting such an incident to school faculty/ staff.\" Specifically, the Dignity Act requires that boards of education create policies, procedures and guidelines that enable students and parents to make oral and/or written reports of harassment, bullying or discrimination to teachers, administrators, and other school personnel that the school district deems appropriate.\n\n\"On June 18, 2012, the New York State Senate and Assembly passed Governor Cuomo’s Program Bill #43 to amend the education law in relation to prohibiting bullying and cyber-bullying in public schools.\" This amendment proposed guidelines to enact the 2013-2014 school year in New York State providing \"guidance and educational materials… regarding the best practices in addressing cyber bullying and helping families and communities work cooperatively with schools in addressing cyber-bullying, whether on or off school property or at or away from a school function.\" Under this new law, schools will play an important role - working with families, communities and law enforcement to protect a student’s right to focus and learn in a stress free environment. Additionally, in July 2015, the New York State Education Department stated that under Title IX, \"discrimination based on a person’s gender identity, a person’s transgender status, or a person’s nonconformity to sex stereotypes constitutes discrimination based on sex\" and asserted a significant interest in ensuring that all students, including transgender students, have the opportunity to learn in an environment free of sex discrimination in public schools.\" \n\nThe protocol that DASA outlines when a student is subjected to any form of harassment, is that first an oral report is required to be submitted to the principal of the school, and the superintendent of the district within one day of the incident. A written report is required to be submitted two days after the incident. Complaints and issues regarding the alleged offender and targeted student should be investigated and tracked while an ongoing investigation occurs. The results of the investigation must be documented and presented to both parties. However, \"The Dignity Act is silent regarding obligations to report incidents to parents.\" Based on each investigation singularly, a student's circumstances must be taken into account along with their safety. There are some instances where it is in the student’s best interest, and safety for school districts to avoid disclosing information to their guardian. For example, \"The school district may seek counsel from the school attorney to determine the best course of action. In some cases, such as where a student is being targeted with anti-gay language, if there is reason to fear that that student may face negative consequences by notifying his/her persons in parental relation, regardless of how she/he actually identifies, this should be taken into account.\"\n"}
{"id": "3076828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076828", "title": "Drumhead court-martial", "text": "Drumhead court-martial\n\nA drumhead court-martial is a court-martial held in the field to hear urgent charges of offences committed in action. The term is said to originate from the use of a drumhead as an improvised writing table, as an altar for religious services, or a traditional gathering point for a regiment for orders or decisions.\n\nThe earliest recorded usage is in an English memoir of the Peninsular War (1807). The term sometimes has connotations of summary justice, with an implied lack of judicial impartiality, as noted in the transcripts of the trial at Nuremberg of Josef Bühler.\n\nAccording to Sir Arthur Wynne Morgan Bryant, such courts-martial have ordered lashings or hangings to punish soldiers (and their officers) who were cowardly, disobedient, or, conversely, acted rashly; and especially as a discouragement to drunkenness. It is also used as a reference to a kangaroo court in its derogatory form.\n\nFrom 1934, every division of the German army had a court martial. After the occupation of Poland, the high command wished to introduce a system which allowed speedy trials to be performed, as it was believed that a fast process would be a more effective deterrent. In November 1939 a law was passed which permitted drumhead trials if it was deemed necessary during warfare. Every commander of a regiment could either decide to inform the court martial of his division or he could convene a drumhead trial when somebody was accused of a crime. The decision of a drumhead trial could be executed immediately. With the beginning of the year 1944 the high command formed a special police, the \"High command \"Feldjäger\"\", which were in command of special drumhead trials named \"fliegende Standgerichte\", composed of motorized judges.\n\nDuring the last two months of World War II, Adolf Hitler authorized the use of \"Fliegendes Sonder-Standgericht\" (\"flying court martial\" or \"flying drumhead\"), mobile courts-martial used by the German armed forces. The use of \"flying\" refers to their mobility and may also refer to the earlier \"flying courts martial\" held in Italian Libya. Italian military judges were flown by aircraft to the location of captured rebels where the rebels were tried in a court martial shortly after capture.\n\nAn example of this was the summary trial of five officers found guilty of failing to prevent the Allies from capturing the Ludendorff Bridge during the Battle of Remagen on 7 March 1945. On a direct order from Hitler, Generalleutnant Rudolf Hübner tried Major Hans Scheller, Captain Willi Bragte, Lt. Karl Heinz Peters, Maj. Herbert Strobel and Maj. August Kraft. Hübner, who had no legal experience, acted as both prosecutor and judge. He conducted extremely brief show trials during which he harangued the defendants for their alleged command failures, and then pronounced sentence. All of the officers were sentenced to death. Except for Bratge, who had been captured, the others were taken to a nearby woods within 24 hours, executed with a shot to the back of the neck, and buried where they fell.\n\nAfter the failed plot to assassinate Hitler in July 1944, General Friedrich Fromm, after capturing the conspirators, hosted an impromptu court martial sentencing the lead conspirators to death by firing squad.\n\nAfter Admiral Canaris, head of the \"Abwehr\", the German military intelligence service, was suspected of involvement in the 20 July Plot to assassinate Hitler, Hitler authorised Heinrich Himmler to have Canaris tried and sentenced to death by a drumhead court-martial.\n\n"}
{"id": "7294025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7294025", "title": "Federal Supplement", "text": "Federal Supplement\n\nThe Federal Supplement is a case law reporter published by West Publishing in the United States that includes select opinions of the United States district courts, and is part of the National Reporter System. Though West is a private company that does not have a legal monopoly over the court opinions it publishes, it has so dominated the industry in the U.S. that legal professionals uniformly cite the \"Federal Supplement\" for included decisions. The \"Federal Reporter\" series publishes opinions of the United States Courts of Appeal and the United States Court of Federal Claims; prior series had varying scopes that covered opinions of other federal courts as well. The \"United States Reports\" are the official law reports of the rulings, orders, case tables, and other proceedings of the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nThe \"Federal Supplement\" organizes court opinions within each volume by the date of the decision, and includes the full official text of the court's opinion. West editors add headnotes that summarize key principles of law in the cases, and Key Numbers that classify the decisions by topic within the West American Digest System.\n\nAlthough opinions designated by the courts as \"for publication\" or \"publish\" are included in the \"Federal Supplement\", West editors also select certain opinions without such a designation for publication, as part of West's editorial process. Opinions explicitly designated \"not for publication\" will not be selected. \n\nUnlike the \"published\" opinions of the United States Courts of Appeals—which are included in the \"Federal Reporter\" series and have full precedential value, binding the lower courts in the relevant judicial circuit and, to a lesser degree, the issuing Court of Appeals—published district court opinions do not constitute binding precedent. They may, however, be viewed as more persuasive than unpublished opinions.\n\nThe \"Federal Supplement\", including its supplementary material, is also available on CD-ROM compilations, and on West's online legal database, Westlaw. Because individual court cases are identified by that consist of printed page and volume numbers, the electronic text of the opinions incorporates the page numbers of the printed volumes with \"star pagination\" formatting—the numbers are boldfaced within brackets and with asterisks prepended (i.e., [*4]) to stand out from the rest of the text.\n\nThough West has copyright over its original headnotes and keynotes, the opinions themselves are public domain and accordingly may be found in other sources, chiefly Lexis, Westlaw's competitor. Lexis also copies the star paginated \"Federal Supplement\" numbering in their text of the opinions to allow for proper citation, a practice that was the subject of an unsuccessful copyright lawsuit by West against the parent company of Lexis.\n\n"}
{"id": "402049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402049", "title": "Flag of convenience", "text": "Flag of convenience\n\nFlag of convenience (FOC) is a business practice whereby a ship's owners register a merchant ship in a ship register of a country other than that of the ship's owners, and the ship flies the civil ensign of that country, called the flag state. The term is often used pejoratively, and the practice is regarded as contentious. Each merchant ship is required by international law to be registered in a registry created by a country, and a ship is subject to the laws of that country, which are used also if the ship is involved in a case under admiralty law. A ship's owners may elect to register a ship in a foreign country which enables it to avoid the regulations of the owners’ country which may, for example, have stricter safety standards. They may also select a jurisdiction to reduce operating costs, bypassing laws that protect the wages and working conditions of mariners. The term \"flag of convenience\" has been used since the 1950s. A registry which does not have a nationality or residency requirement for ship registration is often described as an open registry. Panama, for example, offers the advantages of easier registration (often online) and the ability to employ cheaper foreign labour. Furthermore the foreign owners pay no income taxes.\n\nThe modern practice of ships being registered in a foreign country began in the 1920s in the United States when shipowners, frustrated by increased regulations and rising labor costs, began to register their ships in Panama. The use of open registries steadily increased, and in 1968, Liberia grew to surpass the United Kingdom as the world's largest ship register. , more than half of the world’s merchant ships were registered with open registries, and almost 40% of the entire world fleet, in terms of deadweight tonnage, were registered in Panama, Liberia, and the Marshall Islands. In 2006, up to 20% of high-seas fishing vessels were registered in states they were not connected to. According to IHS Markit, in March 2017, Panama had 8,052 ships on its registry, Singapore had 3,574 ships, Liberia had 3,277 ships, the Marshall Islands had 3,244 ships and Hong Kong had 2,594 ships.\n\nOpen registries have been criticised, mainly by trade union organisations based in developed countries, especially those of Europe. One criticism is that shipowners who want to hide their ownership may select a flag-of-convenience jurisdiction which enables them to be legally anonymous. Some ships with flags of convenience have been found engaging in crime, offer substandard working conditions, and negatively impact the environment, primarily through illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Shipowners may select a jurisdiction with measurement rules that reduce the certified GRT size of a ship, so as to reduce subsequent port of call dock dues. Such was a consideration when Carnival Cruise Line changed the flag of the \"RMS Empress of Canada\" in 1972 to that of Panama. In 2011, Cunard Cruise line registered all its ships in Bermuda, which, besides other considerations, enabled its ship captains to marry couples at sea, weddings at sea are described as a lucrative market.\n\n, thirteen flag states have been found by international shipping organisations to have substandard regulations. On the other hand, maritime industry practitioners and seafarers from other countries contend that this is a natural product of globalisation. Supporters of the practice, however, point to economic and regulatory advantages, and increased freedom in choosing employees from an international labour pool. Ship owners from developed countries use the practice to be competitive in a global environment. , ships of thirteen flags of convenience have been targeted for special enforcement by countries when they visit ports in those countries, called port state control.\n\nInternational law requires that every merchant ship be registered in a country. The country in which a ship is registered is its flag state, and the flag state gives the ship the right to fly its civil ensign. A ship operates under the laws of its flag state, and these laws are used if the ship is involved in an admiralty case. A ship's flag state exercises regulatory control over the vessel and is required to inspect it regularly, certify the ship's equipment and crew, and issue safety and pollution prevention documents. The organization which actually registers the ship is known as its registry. Registries may be governmental or private agencies.\n\nThe reasons for choosing an open register are varied and include tax avoidance, the ability to avoid national labor and environmental regulations, and the ability to hire crews from lower-wage countries. National or closed registries typically require a ship be owned and constructed by national interests, and at least partially crewed by its citizens. Conversely, open registries frequently offer on-line registration with few questions asked. The use of flags of convenience lowers registration and maintenance costs, which in turn reduces overall transportation costs. The accumulated advantages can be significant, for example in 1999, 28 of the American company SeaLand's fleet of 63 ships were foreign-flagged, saving the company up to US$3.5 million per ship every year.\n\nThe environmental disaster caused by the 1978 sinking of the , which flew the Liberian flag, spurred the creation of a new type of maritime enforcement. Resulting from strong political and public outcry over the \"Amoco Cadiz\" sinking, fourteen European nations signed the 1982 Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control or Paris MOU. Under port state control, ships in international trade became subject to inspection by the states they visit. In addition to shipboard living and working conditions, these inspections cover items concerning the safety of life at sea and the prevention of pollution by ships. In cases when a port state inspection uncovers problems with a ship, the port state may take actions including detaining the ship. In 2015, member states of the Paris MOU conducted 17,858 inspections with deficiencies, which resulted in 595 detained vessels and 11 banned. Member states of the Tokyo Memorandum of Understanding conducted 17,269 ship inspections in 2015, recording 83,606 deficiencies which resulted in 1,153 detentions. \n\nThe principle that there be a genuine link between a ship's owners and its flag state dates back to 1958, when Article 5(1) of the Geneva Convention on the High Seas also required that \"the state must effectively exercise its jurisdiction and control in administrative, technical and social matters over ships flying its flag.\" The principle was repeated in Article 91 of the 1982 treaty called the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and often referred to as UNCLOS. In 1986, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development attempted to solidify the genuine link concept in the United Nations Convention on Conditions for Registration of Ships. The Convention for Registration of Ships would require that a flag state be linked to its ships either by having an economic stake in the ownership of its ships or by providing mariners to crew the ships. To come into force, the 1986 treaty requires 40 signatories whose combined tonnage exceeds 25% of the world total. , only 14 countries have signed the treaty.\n\nMerchant ships have used false flags as a tactic to evade enemy warships since antiquity, and examples can be found from as early as the Roman era through to the Middle Ages. Following the American Revolutionary War, merchantmen flying the flag of the fledgling United States quickly found it offered little protection against attack by Barbary pirates - many responded by seeking to transfer their registry back to Great Britain. The use of false flags was frequently used by the British during the Napoleonic Wars and the United States during the War of 1812. During the mid-19th century, slave ships flew various flags to avoid being searched by British anti-slavery fleets. The \"Belen Quezada\", in August 1919, was the first foreign ship to be re-registered in the Panamanian registry, and was employed in running illegal alcohol between Canada and the United States during Prohibition. The modern practice of registering ships in foreign countries to gain economic advantage originated in the United States in the era of World War I, though the term \"flag of convenience\" did not come into use until the 1950s.\nBetween 1915 and 1922, several laws were passed in the United States to strengthen the United States Merchant Marine and provide safeguards for its mariners. During this period, U.S.-flagged ships became subject to regular inspections undertaken by the American Bureau of Shipping. This was also the time of Robert LaFollette's Seamen's Act of 1915, which has been described as the \"\"Magna Carta\" of sailors' rights\". The Seamen's Act regulated mariners' working hours, their payment, and established baseline requirements for shipboard food. It also reduced penalties for disobedience and abolished the practice of imprisoning sailors for the offense of desertion. Another aspect of the Seamen's Act was enforcement of safety standards, with requirements on lifeboats, the number of qualified able seamen on board, and that officers and seamen be able to speak the same language. These laws put U.S.-flagged vessels at an economic disadvantage against countries lacking such safeguards, and ships started to be re-registered in Panama’s open registry from 1919. In addition to sidestepping the Seamen's Act, Panamanian-flagged ships in this early period paid sailors on the Japanese wage scale, which was much lower than that of western merchant powers. In the early phase of World War II the transfer of American-owned ships to the Panama registry was sanctioned by the United States government so that they could be used to deliver materials to Britain without dragging the United States, as a neutral, unintentionally into war.\n\nThe Liberian open registry, founded in 1948, was the brainchild of Edward Stettinius, who had been Franklin D. Roosevelt's Secretary of State during World War II. Stettinius created a corporate structure that included The Liberia Corporation, a joint-venture with the government of Liberia. The corporation was structured so that one-fourth of its revenue would go to the Liberian government, another 10% went to fund social programs in Liberia, and the remainder returned to Stettinius' corporation. The Liberian registry was created at a time when Panama's registry was becoming less attractive for several reasons including its unpopularity with the U.S. labor movement and European shipping concerns, political unrest in Panama, and increases in its fees and regulations. \n\nOn 11 March 1949, Greek shipping magnate Stavros Niarchos registered the first ship under the Liberian flag, \"World Peace\". When Stettinius died in 1949, ownership of the registry passed to the International Bank of Washington, led by General George Olmsted. Within 18 years, Liberia grew to surpass the United Kingdom as the world's largest register.\n\nDue to Liberia's 1989 and 1999 civil wars, its registry eventually fell second to Panama's flag of convenience, but maritime funds continued to supply 70% of its total government revenue. After the civil war of 1990, Liberia joined with the Republic of the Marshall Islands to develop a new maritime and corporate program. The resulting company, International Registries, was formed as a parent company, and in 1993 was bought out by its management. After taking over the Liberian government, Americo-Liberian warlord Charles Taylor signed a new registry contract with the Liberian International Ship and Corporate Registry, commonly known as LISCR. LISCR was one of the few legal sources of income for Taylor's regime. Liberia's registry is operated from Virginia, United States.\n\n, the open registries of Panama, Liberia, and Marshall Islands accounted for almost 40% of the entire world fleet, in terms of deadweight tonnage. That same year, the top ten flags of convenience registered 55% of the world's deadweight tonnage, including 61% of bulk carriers and 56% of oil tankers.\n\nTo counteract \"class hopping\", in 2009 the IACS established a Transfer of Class Agreement (TOCA).\n\nThe International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) maintains a list of 32 registries it considers to be flags of convenience (FOC) registries. In developing the list, the ITF considers \"ability and willingness of the flag state to enforce international minimum social standards on its vessels,\" the \"degree of ratification and enforcement of ILO Conventions and Recommendations,\" and \"safety and environmental record\". the list includes Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, the Cayman Island, Comoros, Cyprus, Equatorial Guinea, Georgia, Gibraltar, Honduras, Jamaica, Lebanon, Liberia, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mongolia, Netherlands Antilles, North Korea, Panama, Sao Tome and Príncipe, St Vincent, Sri Lanka, Tonga, Vanuatu, and the French and German International Ship Registers.\n\n, Panama, Liberia and the Marshall Islands are the world’s three largest registries in terms of deadweight tonnage (DWT). These three organizations registered 11,636 ships of and above, for a total of : more than 39% of the world's shipborne carrying capacity. Panama dominates the scene with over 8,065 ships accounting for almost 23% of the world's DWT. Of the three, the Marshall Islands (with 1,265 registered ships) had the greatest rate of DWT increase in 2009, increasing its tonnage by almost 15%.\n\nThe Bahamian flag ranks sixth worldwide, behind the Hong Kong and Greek registries, but is similar in size to the Marshallese flag of convenience, with about 200 more ships but a carrying capacity about lower. Malta, at the ninth position worldwide, had about 100 more ships than the Bahamas, with a capacity of , representing 4% of the world fleet with 12% growth that year.\n\nAt the eleventh position, Cyprus registered 1,016 ships in 2009, 2.6% of world tonnage. The remaining top 11 flags of convenience are Antigua and Barbuda (#20), Bermuda (#22), Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (#26), and the French International Ship Register (FIS) at number #27. Bermuda and the FIS have fewer than 200 ships apiece, but they are large: the average Bermudan ship is and the average FIS ship is at . (By way of reference, the average capacity of ships in the U.S. and U.K. registers is and respectively.) The registries of Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines both have over 1,000 ships with average capacity of and respectively.\n\nThe 21 other flags of convenience listed by the ITF each account for less than 1% of the world's DWT. , more than half of the world’s merchant ships (measured by tonnage) are registered under flags of convenience.\n\nThere are a number of common threads found in criticisms of the flag of convenience system. One is that these flag states have insufficient regulations and that those regulations they do have are poorly enforced. Another is that, in many cases, the flag state cannot identify a shipowner, much less hold the owner civilly or criminally responsible for a ship's actions. As a result of this lack of flag state control, flags of convenience are criticized on grounds of enabling tax avoidance, providing an environment for conducting criminal activities, supporting terrorism, providing poor working conditions for seafarers, and having an adverse effect on the environment.\n\nDavid Cockroft, former general secretary of the ITF says:\n\nPanama has the largest maritime register, followed by Liberia. Landlocked Bolivia also has a major registry, as does Mongolia. Also, some registers are based in other countries. For example, Panama consulates manage the documentation and collect registration fees, Liberia’s registry is managed by a company in Virginia, Cambodia’s is managed from South Korea and Bahama’s from the City of London.\n\nA ship's beneficial owner is legally and financially responsible for the ship and its activities. For any of a number of reasons, some justifiable and some suspicious, shipowners who wish to conceal their ownership may use a number of strategies to achieve that goal.\n\nIn jurisidictions that permit it, actual owners may establish shell corporations to be the legal owners of their ships, making it difficult, if not impossible, to track who is the beneficial owner of the ship. The 2004 Report of the UN Secretary General’s Consultative Group on Flag State Implementation reported that \"It is very easy, and comparatively inexpensive, to establish a complex web of corporate entities to provide very effective cover to the identities of beneficial owners who do not want to be known.\" \n\nAccording to a 2003 report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) report entitled \"Ownership and Control of Ships\", these corporate structures are often multi-layered, spread across numerous jurisdictions, and make the beneficial owner \"almost impenetrable\" to law enforcement officials and taxation. The report concludes that \"regardless of the reasons why the cloak of anonymity is made available, if it is provided it will also assist those who may wish to remain hidden because they engage in illegal or criminal activities, including terrorists.\" The OECD report concludes that the use of bearer shares is \"perhaps the single most important (and perhaps the most widely used) mechanism\" to protect the anonymity of a ship's beneficial owner. Physically possessing a bearer share accords ownership of the corporation. There is no requirement for reporting the transfer of bearer shares, and not every jurisdiction requires that their serial numbers even be recorded.\n\nTwo similar techniques to provide anonymity for a ship's beneficial owner are \"nominee shareholders\" and \"nominee directors\". In some jurisdictions that require shareholder identities to be reported, a loophole may exist where the beneficial owner may appoint a nominee to be the shareholder, and that nominee cannot legally be compelled to reveal the identity of the beneficial owner. All corporations are required to have at least one director, however many jurisdictions allow this to be a nominee director. A nominee director's name would appear on all corporate paperwork in place of the beneficial owners, and like nominee shareholders, few jurisdictions can compel a nominee director to divulge the identity of beneficial owners. A further hurdle is that some jurisdictions allow a corporation to be named as a director.\n\nFlag of convenience ships have long been linked to crime on the high seas. For example, in 1982, Honduras shut down its open registry operations because it had enabled \"illegal traffic of all kinds and had given Honduras a bad name\".\n\nShips registered by the Cambodia Shipping Corporation (CSC) were found smuggling drugs and cigarettes in Europe, breaking the Iraq oil embargo, and engaging in human trafficking and prostitution in Europe and Asia. In response to these activities, in 2000, Ahamd Yahya of the Cambodian Ministry of Public Works and Transport told industry publication \"Fairplay\" \"We don't know or care who owns the ships or whether they're doing 'white' or 'black' business ... it is not our concern.\" Less than two years later, French forces seized the Cambodian-flagged, Greek-owned MV \"Winner\" for cocaine smuggling. Shortly after the seizure, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen closed the registry to foreign ships, and Cambodia canceled its contract with CSC shortly thereafter.\n\nThe North Korean flag of convenience has also garnered significant scrutiny. In 2003, the North Korean freighter \"Pong Su\" reflagged to Tuvalu in the middle of a voyage shortly before being seized by Australian authorities for smuggling heroin into that country. That year, thirteen nations began monitoring vessels under the North Korean flag for \"illicit cargos like drugs, missiles or nuclear weapon fuel\".\n\nIn 2002 in the United States, Democratic senator John Breaux of Louisiana proposed a bill to prevent U.S. shipowners from using foreign flags, ostensibly as a counter-terrorism measure.\n\nIn the accompanying material of the ILO's Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, the International Labour Organization estimated that at that time there were approximately 1,200,000 working seafarers across the world. This document goes on to say that when working aboard ships flagged to states that do not \"exercise effective jurisdiction and control\" over their ships that \"seafarers often have to work under unacceptable conditions, to the detriment of their well-being, health and safety and the safety of the ships on which they work.\"\n\nThe International Transport Workers' Federation goes further, stating that flags of convenience \"provide a means of avoiding labor regulation in the country of ownership, and become a vehicle for paying low wages and forcing long hours of work and unsafe working conditions. Since FOC ships have no real nationality, they are beyond the reach of any single national seafarers' trade union.\" They also say that these ships have low safety standards and no construction requirements, that they \"do not enforce safety standards, minimum social standards or trade union rights for seafarers\", that they frequently fail to pay their crews, have poor safety records, and engage in practices such as abandoning crewmen in distant ports.\n\nWhile flag of convenience ships have been involved with some of the highest-profile oil spills in history (such as the Maltese-flagged , the Bahamian-flagged , the Marshallese-flagged \"Deepwater Horizon\", and the Liberian-flagged SS Torrey Canyon, and ) the most common environmental criticism they face regards illegal fishing. These critics of the flag of convenience system argue that many of the FOC flag states lack the resources or the will to properly monitor and control those vessels. The Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) contends that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (IUU) vessels use flags of convenience to avoid fisheries regulations and controls. Flags of convenience help reduce the operating costs associated with illegal fishing methods, and help illegal operators avoid prosecution and hide beneficial ownership. As a result, flags of convenience perpetuate IUU fishing which has extensive environmental, social and economic impacts, particularly in developing countries. The EJF is campaigning to end the granting of flags of convenience to fishing vessels as an effective measure to combat IUU fishing.\n\nAccording to Franz Fischler, European Union Fisheries Commissioner,\n\nInternational regulations for the maritime industry are promulgated by agencies of the United Nations, particularly the International Maritime Organization and International Labour Organization. Flag states adopt these regulations for their ships by ratifying individual treaties. One common criticism against flag of convenience countries is that they allow shipowners to avoid these regulations by not ratifying important treaties or by failing to enforce them.\n\nThe International Chamber of Shipping (ICS) issues an annual report entitled the \"Shipping Industry Flag State Performance Table\" identifying the six \"core\" conventions representing a minimum level of maritime regulation, from the viewpoint of shipowners, as SOLAS, MARPOL, LL 66, STCW, MLC, and CLC/FUND92. Of these, all 34 flag of convenience countries listed by ITF have ratified the STCW Convention, concerning standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers, and 25 of them have now ratified all six. However, nine listed countries have not ratified all the remaining five conventions. To put this in context, 64 flag states have not ratified all six conventions, including China and United States of America.\n\nThe Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) and Load Line (LL 66) conventions focus on shipboard safety issues. Originally developed in response to the sinking of RMS \"Titanic\", SOLAS sets regulations on lifeboats, emergency equipment and safety procedures, including continuous radio watches. It has been updated to include regulations on ship construction, fire protection systems, life-saving appliances, radio communications, safety of navigation, management for the safe operation of ships, and other safety and security concerns. LL 66 sets standards for minimum buoyancy, hull stress, and ship's fittings, as well as establishing navigational zones where extra precautions must be taken.\n\nThe International Labour Organization Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 provides comprehensive rights and protection at work for seafarers, including requirements for minimum age, qualifications, hours of work and rest, medical care, complaint procedures, wage payments, and onboard living arrangements. The MLC replaced a number of earlier ILO Conventions including ILO147.\n\nMARPOL and CLC/FUND92 relate to pollution. The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 (MARPOL), as modified by the Protocol of 1978, including Annexes I–VI\" regulates pollution by ships, including oil and air pollution, shipboard sewage and garbage. , the Bahamian, Cambodian, North Korean, Georgian, Honduran, Lebanese and Sri Lankan governments have not fully ratified MARPOL. The Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage (CLC) and International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage (FUND92) together provide mechanisms to ensure compensation for victims of oil spills.\n\nIn 1978, a number of European countries agreed in The Hague to audit labour conditions on board vessels \"vis-a-vis\" the rules of the International Labour Organization. To this end, in 1982 the \"Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control\" (Paris MOU) was established, setting port state control standards for what is now twenty-six European countries and Canada.\n\nSeveral other regional Memoranda Of Understanding have been established based on the Paris model, including the \"Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control in the Asia-Pacific Region\", typically referred to as the \"Tokyo MOU\", and organizations for the Black Sea, the Caribbean, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean, and Latin America. The Tokyo and Paris organizations generate, based on deficiencies and detentions, black-, white-, and grey-lists of flag states. The US Coast Guard, which handles port state control inspections in the US, maintains a similar target list for underperforming flag states. , fourteen of the thirty-four flags of convenience listed by the ITF are targeted for special enforcement by the countries of the Paris and Tokyo MOUs or U.S. Coast Guard: Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Bolivia, Cambodia, the Cayman Islands, Comoros, Cyprus, Honduras, North Korea, Malta, Moldova, Mongolia, Panama, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Vanuatu.\n\nThe United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in its 2009 \"Report on Maritime Trade\", states that shipowners often register their ships under a foreign flag in order to employ \"seafarers from developing countries with lower wages\". The Philippines and China supply a large percentage of maritime labor in general, and major flags of convenience in particular. In 2009, the flag-states employing the highest number of expatriate-Filipino seafarers were Panama, the Bahamas, Liberia and the Marshall Islands. That year, more than 150,000 Filipino sailors were employed by these four flags of convenience. In a 2006 study by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD), sailors from the People's Republic of China comprised over 40% of the crews on surveyed ships flying the Panamanian flag, and around 10% of those flying the Liberian flag. The MARAD report referred to both China and the Philippines as \"low cost\" crewing sources.\n\nThe seafaring industry is often divided into two employment groups: licensed mariners including deck officers and marine engineers, and mariners that are not required to have licenses, such as able seamen and cooks, but are required to be certified. The latter group is collectively known as unlicensed mariners or ratings. Differences in wages can be seen in both groups, between \"high cost\" crewing sources such as the United States, and \"low cost\" sources such as China and The Philippines. However, salaries on flag of convenience ships are still far higher than median salaries of non-seafarers in these countries, in addition to income tax exemption of some seamen, particularly those from the Philippines.\n\nFor unlicensed mariners, 2009 statistics from the American Bureau of Labor Statistics give median earnings for able and ordinary seamen as US$35,810, varying from $21,640 (at the 10th percentile) to $55,360 (at the 90th percentile). This can be compared with 2006 statistics from the International Labour Organization, giving average yearly earnings for Filipino and Chinese able seamen around $2,000 to $3,000 per year (PHP9,900 per month and CNY3,071 per year). Among licensed mariners, American chief engineers earned a median $63,630, varying from $35,030 to $109,310 while their Filipino counterparts averaged $5,500 per year (PHP21,342 per month).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1363240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363240", "title": "Geneva Frequency Plan of 1975", "text": "Geneva Frequency Plan of 1975\n\nThe Geneva Frequency Plan of 1975 (Aka \"The Final Acts of the Regional Administrative LF/MF Broadcasting Conference (Regions 1 and 3) Geneva, 1975\" or simply \"GE75\") is the internationally agreed frequency plan which was drawn up to implement the provisions of the Final Acts of the Regional Administrative LF/MF Broadcasting Conference (Regions 1 and 3) held in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1975. It covers radio broadcasting in the long and medium wave bands outside the Americas (separate agreements being in place for North and South America).\n\nThe plan was drawn up under the auspices of the World Administrative Radio Conference (WARC) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) with the assistance of the European Broadcasting Union (EBU/UER).\n\nThe Geneva plan replaced the 1948 Copenhagen plan. It became necessary because of the large number of broadcasting stations in these frequency ranges leading to ever more mutual interference (Many countries had refused to ratify the Copenhagen plan and compliance was patchy even among those which had). The Geneva plan entered into force on 23 November 1978 and although its intended lifespan was only until 1989, it is still valid (with small modification by mutual coordination between countries) today, and compliance has been far more widespread.\n\nMost existing European radio stations were required to change their broadcasting frequencies following implementation of the plan. In most cases the changes were slight (less than five kilohertz) but were more drastic in some cases, particularly in the United Kingdom, where all BBC national stations moved to a new wavelength or band. However the increased number of radio services and reduction (in most cases) of interference to radio signals (particularly at nighttime) was considered by most broadcasters to be worth the initial inconvenience.\n\nAs a result of the plan most medium wave (and later longwave) stations outside North and South America operate on exact multiples of 9 kHz; the sum of all digits of the frequency will be 9 or a multiple of 9 (see 9#Mathematics).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87328", "title": "Happy Birthday to You", "text": "Happy Birthday to You\n\n\"Happy Birthday to You\", also known as \"Happy Birthday\", is a song traditionally sung to celebrate the anniversary of a person's birth. According to the 1998 \"Guinness World Records\", it is the most recognized song in the English language, followed by \"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\". The song's base lyrics have been translated into at least 18 languages. The melody of \"Happy Birthday to You\" comes from the song \"Good Morning to All\", which has traditionally been attributed to American sisters Patty and Mildred J. Hill in 1893, although the claim that the sisters composed the tune is disputed.\n\nPatty Hill was a kindergarten principal in Louisville, Kentucky, developing various teaching methods at what is now the Little Loomhouse; her sister Mildred was a pianist and composer. The sisters used \"Good Morning to All\" as a song that young children would find easy to sing. The combination of melody and lyrics in \"Happy Birthday to You\" first appeared in print in 1912, and probably existed even earlier.\n\nNone of the early appearances of the \"Happy Birthday to You\" lyrics included credits or copyright notices. The Summy Company registered a copyright in 1935, crediting authors Preston Ware Orem and Mrs. R. R. Forman. In 1988, Warner/Chappell Music purchased the company owning the copyright for 25 million, with the value of \"Happy Birthday\" estimated at 5 million. Based on the 1935 copyright registration, Warner claimed that the United States copyright will not expire until 2030, and that unauthorized public performances of the song are illegal unless royalties are paid to Warner. In one specific instance in February 2010, the royalty for a single use was said to be 700. By one estimate, the song is the highest-earning single song in history, with estimated earnings since its creation of 50 million. In the European Union, the copyright for the song expired on January 1, 2017.\n\nThe American copyright status of \"Happy Birthday to You\" began to draw more attention with the passage of the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act in 1998. When the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Act in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\" in 2003, Associate Justice Stephen Breyer specifically mentioned \"Happy Birthday to You\" in his dissenting opinion. American law professor Robert Brauneis, who extensively researched the song, concluded in 2010 that \"It is almost certainly no longer under copyright.\" In 2013, based in large part on Brauneis's research, Good Morning to You Productions, a company producing a documentary about \"Good Morning to All\", sued Warner/Chappell for falsely claiming copyright to the song. In September 2015, a federal judge declared that the Warner/Chappell copyright claim was invalid, ruling that the copyright registration applied only to a specific piano arrangement of the song, and not to its lyrics and melody. In 2016, Warner/Chappell settled for US $14 million, and the court declared that \"Happy Birthday to You\" was in the public domain.\n\nThe person whose birthday is being celebrated is filled in for \"[NAME]\". The earliest known publication used \"John\" as the example.\n\n<score lang=\"lilypond\">\\relative c' { \\key f \\major \\time 3/4 \\partial 4 c8. c16 | d4 c f | e2 c8. c16 | d4 c g' | f2 c8. c16 | c'4 a f | e( d) bes'8. bes16 | a4 f g | f2 \\bar \"|.\" } \\addlyrics { Hap -- py birth -- day to you, Hap -- py birth -- day to you, Hap -- py birth -- day dear [NAME], __ Hap -- py birth -- day to you. }</score>\n\nIt is traditional, among English-speakers, that at a birthday party, the song \"Happy Birthday to You\" be sung to the birthday person by the other guests celebrating the birthday. More specifically, the birthday person is traditionally presented with a birthday cake with lit candles, with the number of candles sometimes corresponding to the age of the person. After the song is sung (usually just once), party guests sometimes add wishes like \"and many more!\" expressing the hope that the birthday person will enjoy a long life. The birthday person may be asked to make a wish (\"Make a wish!\")—which he or she does silently—and then is supposed to blow out the candles. Traditionally, blowing out the candles is believed (or is considered a lighthearted superstition) to ensure that the wish will come true. Once the candles have been blown out, people may applaud, after which the cake may be served, often with the first piece being served to the person whose birthday it is.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, immediately after \"Happy Birthday\" has been sung, it is traditional for one of the guests to enthusiastically lead with \"Hip hip ...\" and then for all of the other guests to join in and say \"... hooray!\" This is normally repeated three times. In Canada, especially at young children's birthdays, immediately after \"Happy Birthday\" has been sung, the singers segue into \"How old are you now? How old are you now? How old are you now-ow, how old are you now?\" and then count up: \"Are you one? Are you two? Are you ...\" until they reach the right age, at which the celebrant says \"yes\", and everybody else, who presumably know the right number, all cheer.\n\nBoth the music and lyrics are in public domain in both the European Union and United States. The copyright expired in the European Union on January 1, 2017. In the United States, a federal court ruled in 2016 that Warner/Chappell's copyright claim was invalid and there was no other claim to copyright.\n\nThe origins of \"Happy Birthday to You\" date back to at least the late 19th century, when two sisters, Patty and Mildred J. Hill, introduced the song \"Good Morning to All\" to Patty's kindergarten class in Kentucky. Years later, in 1893, they published the tune in their songbook \"Song Stories for the Kindergarten\". Kembrew McLeod stated that the Hill sisters likely copied the tune and lyrical idea from other popular and similar nineteenth-century songs that predated theirs, including Horace Waters' \"Happy Greetings to All\", \"Good Night to You All\" also from 1858, \"A Happy New Year to All\" from 1875, and \"A Happy Greeting to All\", published 1885. However, American law professor Robert Brauneis disputes this, noting that these earlier songs had quite different melodies.\n\nIt is likely that teachers and students spontaneously adapted the published version of \"Good Morning to All\" to celebrate birthdays in the classroom, changing the lyrics to \"Happy Birthday\" in the process. The complete text of \"Happy Birthday to You\" first appeared in print as the final four lines of Edith Goodyear Alger's poem \"Roy's Birthday\", published in her book \"A Primer of Work and Play\", copyrighted by D. C. Heath in 1901, with no reference to the words being sung. The first book including \"Happy Birthday\" lyrics set to the tune of \"Good Morning to All\" that bears a date of publication is from 1911 in \"The Elementary Worker and His Work\", but earlier references exist to a song called \"Happy Birthday to You\" including an article from 1901 in the \"Inland Educator and Indiana School Journal\". \"Children's Praise and Worship\", edited by Andrew Byers, Bessie L. Byrum and Anna E. Koglin, published the song in 1918. In 1924, Robert Coleman included \"Good Morning to All\" in a songbook with the birthday lyrics as a second verse. Coleman also published \"Happy Birthday\" in \"The American Hymnal\" in 1933.\n\nIn 1935, several specific piano arrangements and an unused second verse of \"Happy Birthday to You\" were copyrighted as a work for hire crediting Preston Ware Orem for the piano arrangements and Mrs. R. R. Forman for the lyrics by the Summy Company, the publisher of \"Good Morning to All\". This served as the legal basis for claiming that Summy Company legally registered the copyright for the song, as well as the later renewal of these copyrights. A later 2015 lawsuit would find this claim baseless. That specific new lyrics that also included the full text of \"Happy Birthday to You\", was a copyright on the derivative work. A 1957 acquisition of C.C. Birchard & Company saw Summy Company becoming the Summy-Birchard Company. A later corporate restructuring in the 1970s saw Summy-Birchard becoming a division of a new company: Birch Tree Group Limited.\n\nWarner/Chappell Music acquired Birch Tree Group Limited in 1988 for 25 million. The company continued to insist that one cannot sing the \"Happy Birthday to You\" lyrics for profit without paying royalties: in 2008, Warner collected about 5,000 per day (2 million per year) in royalties for the song. Warner/Chappell claimed copyright for every use in film, television, radio, anywhere open to the public, and for any group where a substantial number of those in attendance are not family or friends of whoever is performing the song. Brauneis cited problems with the song's authorship and the notice and renewal of the copyright, and concluded: \"It is almost certainly no longer under copyright.\"\n\nIn the European Union, copyright lasts for the life of the author(s) plus 70 years; since Patty Hill (the last surviving author) died in 1946, the copyright in these countries expired on January 1, 2017.\n\nOn June 13, 2013, documentary filmmaker Jennifer Nelson filed a putative class action suit in federal court for the Southern District of New York against Warner/Chappell in the name of her production company, Good Morning to You Productions. As part of a documentary she was making about the song and its history, she had paid 1,500 to secure the rights. Her complaint relied heavily on Brauneis's research, seeking not only the return of her money but all royalties collected by the company from other filmmakers since 2009. A week later a similar case was filed in the Central District of California, \"Rupa Marya v. Warner Chappell Music Inc\", Case No. 2:13-cv-04460. Five weeks later, Nelson refiled the case there, and the cases were combined. As of April 2014, Warner's motion to dismiss had been denied without prejudice, and discovery began under an agreed plan with respect to Claim One, declaratory judgment as to whether \"Happy Birthday to You\" is in the public domain. The Motion Cut-Off as to Merits Issues on the Claim One deadline was November 7, 2014. After that, the court was expected to rule on the motion for summary judgment as to the merits issues on Claim One. A jury trial was requested.\n\nOn July 28, 2015, one day prior to a scheduled ruling, Nelson's attorneys Betsy Manifold and Mark Rifkin presented new evidence that they argued was conclusive proof that the song was in the public domain, \"thus making it unnecessary for the Court to decide the scope or validity of the disputed copyrights, much less whether Patty Hill abandoned any copyright she may have had to the lyrics\". Several weeks prior, they had been given access to documents held back from them by Warner/Chappell, which included a copy of the 15th edition of \"The Everyday Song Book\", published in 1927. The book contained \"Good Morning and Happy Birthday\", but the copy was blurry, obscuring a line of text below the title. Manifold and Rifkin located a clearer copy of an older edition, published in 1922, that also contained the \"Happy Birthday\" lyrics. The previously obscured line was revealed to be the credit \"Special permission through courtesy of The Clayton F Summy Co.\". Manifold and Rifkin argued that because the music and lyrics were published without a valid copyright notice as was required at the time, \"Happy Birthday\" was in the public domain.\n\nWarner/Chappell disputed the evidence, arguing that unless there was \"necessary authorization from the copyright owner\", the \"Happy Birthday\" lyrics and sheet music would still be subject to common law copyright as an unpublished work, and that it was unknown whether the \"special permission\" from the Summy Company covered \"Good Morning to All\", \"Happy Birthday\", or both, thus alleging that the publication in \"The Everyday Song Book\" was unauthorized. The company also argued that it was not acting in bad faith in withholding the evidence of the 1927 publication.\n\nOn September 22, 2015, federal judge George H. King ruled that the Warner/Chappell copyright claim over the lyrics was invalid. The 1935 copyright held by Warner/Chappell applied only to a specific piano arrangement of the song, not the lyrics or melody. The court held that the question of whether the 1922 and 1927 publications were authorized, thus placing the song in the public domain, presented questions of fact that would need to be resolved at trial. However, Warner/Chappell had failed to prove that it actually had ever held a copyright to the lyrics, so the court was able to grant summary judgment to the plaintiffs, thus resolving the case.\n\nSome initial news sources characterized the decision as ruling that the song was in the public domain, but the decision did not go so far, holding only that Warner/Chappell did not prove they owned the copyright. However, because there are no other claimants to the copyright, and the copyright to the melody long ago expired, the plaintiffs suggested that the song was \"de facto\" in the public domain. Also, the judge ruled that the song was not copyrighted by Summy Co., who had written in the song book, \"Special permission through courtesy of the Clayton F. Summy Co.\" Since there was no evidence Summy Co. had copyright on the song, the song is still considered to be in the public domain.\n\nPrior to the lawsuit, Warner/Chappell had been earning $2 million a year licensing the song for commercial use, with a notable example the $5,000 paid by the filmmakers of the 1994 documentary, \"Hoop Dreams\", in order to safely distribute the film. On February 8, 2016, Warner/Chappell agreed to pay a settlement of $14 million to those who had licensed the song, and would allow a final judgment declaring the song to be in the public domain, with a final hearing scheduled in March 2016. On June 28, 2016, the final settlement was officially granted and the court declared that the song was in the public domain. The following week, Nelson's short-form documentary, \"Happy Birthday: my campaign to liberate the people's song\", was published online by \"The Guardian\".\n\nIn the wake of their success, the lawyers involved in the \"Happy Birthday\" lawsuit filed similar lawsuits regarding \"We Shall Overcome\" and \"This Land Is Your Land\".\n\nOne of the most famous performances of \"Happy Birthday to You\" was Marilyn Monroe's rendition to U.S. President John F. Kennedy in May 1962. Another notable use was by comedy pianist Victor Borge, who played the song in styles of various composers, or would begin playing \"Moonlight Sonata\", smoothly transitioning into the song.\n\nThe documentary film \"The Corporation\" states that Warner/Chappell charged up to 10,000 for the song to appear in a film. Because of the copyright issue, filmmakers rarely showed complete singalongs of \"Happy Birthday\" in films, either substituting the public-domain \"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\" or avoiding using a song entirely. Before the song was copyrighted it was used freely, as in \"Bosko's Party\", a Warner Bros. cartoon of 1932, where a chorus of animals sings it twice through. The copyright status of \"Happy Birthday to You\" is directly referenced in a 2009 episode of the TV series \"iCarly\", \"iMake Sam Girlier\", in which the main character as well as others begin to sing the song to Sam but are prevented from doing so by Freddie, who says the song isn't public domain; \"For She's a Jolly Good Fellow\" is then sung instead.\n\nIn a 1998 episode of the television show \"Sports Night\", \"Intellectual Property\", character Dan Rydell sings the song to his co-anchor during a telecast, forcing his network to pay royalties, and causing him to ask his colleagues to choose public-domain songs for him to sing for their birthdays. The copyright is also referenced frequently in a Disney \"A.N.T. Farm\" episode where characters repeatedly try to sing the song, only to be stopped by others reminding them of the price. The melody of the song is also featured in \"The Wrong Trousers\" but was replaced with \"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\" for DVD releases. The use of the song is a problem even if it is sung in a made-up language, as a Klingon-language version was nixed in pre-production from the 7th-season episode of \"\" called \"\", replaced with \"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\" in Klingon. In the \"Futurama\" episode \"I Second That Emotion\", they poke fun at the song and its copyright by making their own version with the lyrics \"What day is today? / It's (birthday person)'s birthday / What a day for a birthday / Let's all have some cake.\"\n\nIn The Goldbergs episode \"Han Ukkah Solo\", Erica Goldberg is challenged to write a Hanukkah song. She does, but her words are sung to the tune of \"Happy Birthday To You\". Her music teacher tells her she can't use it because \"I'd have to pay those old ladies hundreds of thousands of dollars, and I've already spent our budget on construction paper.\"\n\nIn the \"30 Rock\" episode \"Goodbye, My Friend\", TGS cast members begin to sing the song following an announcement about the royalty fee for singing \"Happy Birthday to You\" on a television show. The cast is interrupted after the first line by a character entering the scene. In the \"Community\" episode \"Mixology Certification\", a scene starts with the last two words of the song (\"... to you\"), implying it had been sung in its entirety, before Pierce confusedly asks, \"How come we only sang the last two words?\"\n\nIn the 1987 documentary \"Eyes on the Prize\" about the U.S. Civil Rights Movement, there was a birthday party scene in which Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s discouragement began to lift. After its initial release, the film was unavailable for sale or broadcast for many years because of the cost of clearing many copyrights, of which \"Happy Birthday to You\" was one. Grants in 2005 for copyright clearances allowed PBS to rebroadcast the film as recently as February 2008.\n\nIn 2010, the Western classical music conductor Zubin Mehta conducted the orchestra to play variations of Happy Birthday in the styles of various Western classical music composers including Wagner, Bach, Mozart and Beethoven, and in the Viennese, New Orleans and Hungarian composition styles.\n\nOn August 5, 2013, the first anniversary of its landing on Mars, NASA's Curiosity rover celebrated its \"birthday\" when engineers at Goddard Space Flight Center used the Sample Analysis at Mars (SAM) instrument to cause the rover to \"sing\" Happy Birthday on the Martian surface.\n\nDuring the March 6, 2014 episode of the Comedy Central series \"The Colbert Report\", Stephen Colbert planned to sing the song in honor of the 90th anniversary of its 1924 publication. Due to the copyright issues, Colbert instead performed his new \"royalty-free\" birthday song, which is set to \"The Star-Spangled Banner\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55692519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55692519", "title": "Institute for Legal Research", "text": "Institute for Legal Research\n\nThe Institute for Legal Research is a legal research center at the UC Berkeley School of Law. It was founded in 1967 as the Earl Warren Legal Institute, after American jurist and politician Earl Warren, and was originally an Organized Research Unit of the University of California, Berkeley. It was renamed to its current name in July 2005, and became part of the UC Berkeley School of Law in July 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7028592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7028592", "title": "Integration law for immigrants to the Netherlands", "text": "Integration law for immigrants to the Netherlands\n\nThe Law on integration (Dutch: Wet inburgering) obliges most immigrants who are not citizens of the EU, Switzerland, Turkey, or the European Economic Area countries to learn Dutch and pass an exam within a few years of their arrival in the Netherlands. Since first appearing in draft form as part of a proposal in the House of Representatives, the exam has proven to be highly controversial. It continues to be both a subject of controversy, and even ridicule, in the Netherlands.\n\nAccording to a separate law, known in Dutch as the \"Wet inburgering in het buitenland\", certain classes of prospective immigrants must also pass a test involving basic knowledge of Dutch and Dutch society even before they first enter the Netherlands.\n\nSpecific programs devoted to integration did exist before 2007. Between 1998 and 2007, new immigrants were obligated to follow an integration course that contained implemented standards on a national level. The courses were financed by the government and organized by local municipalities. There was, however, no compulsory test. Immigrants were fined only if they did not take the course without a valid reason.\n\nThe Law on Integration, drafted by Rita Verdonk, was passed by the House of Representatives (Tweede Kamer) on July 7, 2006, and the Senate (Eerste Kamer) on November 28, 2006, and was put into effect on January 1, 2007. It laid the groundwork for the current program, which is known as \"inburgering\".\n\n\"Inburgering\" is a requirement for residents who have relocated to the Netherlands from countries outside of the European Union, in addition to others in certain circumstances. After a period of three-and-a-half years (five years for some), they must pass an exam that evaluates various aspects of their integration. The current exam consists of six parts. Four measure Dutch language skills and include components that test an immigrants' speaking, listening, writing and reading abilities. The fifth tests their knowledge of Dutch society. The sixth portion, introduced in 2015, assesses their understanding of the Dutch labor market.\n\nThe obligation to take the test currently applies not only to new immigrants, but also to some who have lived in the Netherlands for five years or longer. \n\nA similar obligation exists for some foreigners wishing to relocate to the Netherlands, especially people wanting to marry a resident or a citizen. These rules can be found in another law titled the \"Wet inburgering in het buitenland\" (“Integration law for Immigrants to the Netherlands Abroad”). The exam is requirement to receive a temporary long stay residence permit (Dutch: MVV) and is usually taken at a Dutch embassy.\n\nSince the obligation was introduced for people entering after January 1, 2007, the law had no consequences for people failing to fulfill their obligations until July 1, 2010.\n\nLocal city councils are responsible for making sure that those obliged to take the exam do so. Failure to pass the test within the allotted time can result in financial penalties. The specifics depend on the resident's place of residence and can total anywhere from several hundred to more than 1,000 euros. However, residents can request additional time to prepare for the exam if their reasons for not adhering to their obligation is deemed sufficient. Contrary to popular belief, a resident cannot be denied residency because they have not passed the exam.\nThe law does not apply to:\n\nIn 2010, a Dutch judge ruled that the law ought not to be extended to Turkish citizens, because of an association treaty between the European Union and Turkey.\n\nDutch municipalities are responsible for the implementation of the law.\n\nAs of June 2011, the courses, which can cost several thousand euros, may be subsidized by the government in certain circumstances. However, beginning in 2013, these resources became increasingly limited.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12238690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12238690", "title": "Jacques Le Gris", "text": "Jacques Le Gris\n\nSir Jacques Le Gris (c. 1330s – 29 December 1386) was a squire and knight in fourteenth century France who gained fame and infamy when he engaged in the last judicial duel permitted by the Parlement of Paris after he was accused of rape by the wife of his neighbour and rival Sir Jean de Carrouges. Carrouges brought legal proceedings against Le Gris before King Charles VI who after hearing the evidence, authorised a trial by combat to determine the question. The duel attracted thousands of spectators and has been discussed by many notable French writers, from the contemporary Jean Froissart to Voltaire.\n\nDescribed as a large and physically imposing character with a reputation for womanising, Le Gris was a liege man (feudal retainer) of Count Pierre d'Alençon and a favourite at his court, governing a large swathe of his liege lord's territory in addition to his own ancestral holdings. Le Gris' insistence on defending his case by chivalric trial by combat rather than opting for the safer church trial (to which as a cleric in minor orders he was entitled) attracted widespread support for his cause amongst the French nobility, and controversy continues to this day as to where the real guilt lies in the case.\n\nJacques Le Gris was born in the 1330s, the son of a minor Norman squire Guillaume Le Gris. Unusually for the time, he was educated, taking minor orders as a cleric in the church and able to read sufficiently well to officiate at mass. Like his father, Le Gris was first a man-at-arms and then squire in the service of the Count of Perche, a role at which he excelled. He also participated in several minor military campaigns in Normandy in the entourage of Robert d'Alençon. In 1370 his long service was rewarded when he was given command of one of his liege lord's castles at the village of Exmes. During his career, he became firm friends with Jean de Carrouges, another squire in the Count's service. Carrouges and Le Gris were so close that in 1377, the same year that Count Robert died, Carrouges made Le Gris godfather to his eldest son, a position of great responsibility and trust.\n\nWith the arrival of Count Robert's brother Pierre d'Alençon as the new count, the friendship between the two squires became strained. Le Gris was an able, amiable and intelligent man and soon became one of the new Count's favourites. When Count Pierre moved his court to Argentan, Le Gris lent him 3,000 livres and, in reward, was confirmed as Seigneur of Exmes and given a valuable estate at Arnou-le-Faucon. As Le Gris rose in his lord's esteem, the poorer Carrouges was frequently overlooked, resulting in a deterioration in their friendship which was only worsened by the death of Carrouges' wife and son in 1380, severing the men's family ties.\n\nShortly after the death of his family, Carrouges departed on campaign in Upper Normandy while Le Gris - thanks to his literacy and military skills - rose steadily in importance in Count Pierre's court, travelling with the count when he went to Paris on business. During the course of these trips, Count Pierre introduced Le Gris at the royal court and was instrumental in gaining him the prestigious title of Royal Steward, a position within the household of the King, Charles VI.\n\nIn 1381, Le Gris and Carrouges engaged in a very public argument over the domain of Arnou-le-Faucon. Carrouges had returned from the wars with a new bride, Marguerite de Thibouville, daughter of a controversial Norman squire who until recently had owned Arnou. Although the lands had been legally bought by Count Pierre in 1377 for 8,000 livres, Carrouges wanted them back as part of his dowry and took Count Pierre in court to return them. Count Pierre was forced to visit his cousin the King to obtain royal approval for his purchase and consequently was furious with Carrouges. The eventual result was that Carrouges was isolated from the court and subjected to three years of legal struggles over land with Count Pierre, who denied him the purchase or inheritance of several estates. Le Gris was heavily involved in these legal disputes both as the Seigneur of Arnou-le-Faucon and as adviser to the Count. He thus became a target of Carrouges, who accused Le Gris of orchestrating the lawsuits against him.\n\nA rapprochement between the two men was achieved in the winter of 1384, when Carrouges and Le Gris were both invited to the estate of a mutual friend, Jean Crespin, to celebrate the birth of his son. For the first time, Carrouges brought his wife Marguerite into society and it was at this party that she made her first acquaintance with Le Gris. Despite the tension between them, Carrouges and Le Gris shook hands and drank together, putting their quarrel behind them before their peers and neighbours. A few months later Jean de Carrouges departed on campaign to Scotland and Le Gris took the opportunity to increase his influence with the Count, making substantial financial and territorial gains in his rival's absence. Carrouges returned a year later, now a knight but bankrupt, ill and suffering the aftermath of a long and unsuccessful campaign. When Carrouges appeared at Argentan in January 1386 he was involved in a confrontation with his erstwhile friend. Although it is not known what was said, the two men separated on poor terms and Carrouges departed for Paris in a state of agitation.\n\nSome weeks after their encounter, word reached Le Gris of accusations being made against him by Carrouges and his wife. It will never be known what basis these allegations had in fact but Carrouges claimed that on 18 January 1386, whilst Carrouges was still in Paris, Le Gris had entered the chateau of Carrouges' mother Nicole and there raped Marguerite. According to Marguerite de Carrouges' testimony, a squire in Le Gris' employ named Adam Louvel had knocked on the door of the chateau and demanded entry. All the servants were attending to Dame Nicole de Carrouges, who was visiting a neighbouring town on legal business, and so Marguerite was alone when Louvel called. Once inside, Louvel gave Marguerite a message that Le Gris was outside and desired to see her because he was passionately in love with her. Although Marguerite protested, Le Gris broke into the house and propositioned her, offering money in exchange. When Marguerite refused, Le Gris attempted to take her by force and raped her on the bed in her chamber with the help of Louvel. As Le Gris departed, he threatened her with violence if she told of the encounter.\n\nCharges were brought by the Carrouges' faction against Le Gris in the court of Count Pierre but Carrouges and his wife refused to attend the hearing, so convinced were they of receiving unfair treatment from the Count. Count Pierre backed his favourite in the trial, clearing Le Gris and accusing Marguerite of inventing or \"dreaming\" the charges. Undeterred, Carrouges then visited the court of King Charles VI at the Château de Vincennes and appealed to the King for the right to challenge Le Gris to a judicial duel to allow God to decide the case. The King referred the case to the Parlement of Paris, where both claimants were expected to appear on 9 July.\n\nInformed of the King's decision, Le Gris contacted Jean Le Coq, widely considered the best lawyer of the day in France. Le Coq kept meticulous notes of the entire trial process and it is through his record that many of the facts of the case are known. Le Coq also comments in his records his own suspicions about his client, whose claims of innocence he considered to be false. Le Gris was urged by his family and lawyer to insist on being tried in a church court, which as a cleric in minor orders was his right. This would have given him a more favourable hearing in a court which did not condone trial by combat and thus would also be much safer. Le Gris rebuffed this advice and became angry when challenged on the decision, insisting on his right to trial before the Parlement.\n\nOn 9 July 1386, at the Palais de Justice in Paris the two claimants faced each other for the first time since their confrontation at Argentan several months before. Each stepped before the Parlement in turn and presented their case for the King and court, Carrouges throwing down his gauntlet in challenge and Le Gris picking it up signifying his acceptance of the duel. Le Gris also embellished his case by insisting that should he be proven innocent of the offence, he would sue Carrouges or his estate for 40,000 livres. Following the declarations a number of high-ranking noblemen stepped forward to act as seconds in the duel for both men, including Waleran of Saint-Pol for Carrouges and Philip of Artois, Count of Eu for Le Gris. After hearing the challenges and accusations, the Parlement and King debated the case and decided that a full hearing of the evidence from witnesses would be held to determine guilt. If the case could not be decided by normal means, then a judicial duel would be held to adjudicate the dispute, God choosing the victor.\n\nDuring the criminal trial, all the major figures in the case were called on to give evidence. Le Gris and Carrouges began proceedings and were followed by a heavily pregnant Marguerite and at least one of her maidservants as well as Adam Louvel. As people of low birth, Louvel and the servants were all subject to torture to test the veracity of their testimony but none gave evidence against Le Gris and the case continued through the summer and into September without conclusion. Le Gris' case involved several strategies; he attempted to discredit his opponent by telling of Carrouges' infamous temper and describing the case against him as a jealous invention from a man who had threatened to beat his wife if she did not corroborate his accusations. Le Gris then provided alibis for the entire week in question, establishing his whereabouts in testimony backed up by several other squires of the court of Count Pierre. Finally he attempted to demonstrate in court that it was physically impossible for him to have ridden in winter from Argentan to Capomesnil, where the crime supposedly took place, in a single day, a round trip of approximately 50 miles (80 km).\n\nAs the trial progressed however, Le Gris' testimony suffered several blows. The unwavering accusations directed at him by Marguerite and the shame such accusations brought to her were, in the eyes of the court, a powerful reason why the charges were not invented. Then, even as the trial progressed, one of the men providing Le Gris' alibi, named Jean Beloteau, was arrested in Paris and charged with rape. This charge seriously undermined Beloteau's testimony and Le Gris' defence. Finally, Carrouges himself offered counter-testimony in court that a healthy, strong man with long experience of horsemanship and a stable full of horses like Le Gris could certainly have made the 50 mile trip without difficulty, even accounting for the snow.\n\nFaced with such conflicting accounts and unable to reach a conclusion, the Parlement announced on 15 September that the two men would fight to the death on 27 November 1386 to decide guilt in the case. If Carrouges lost, then Marguerite would be burnt at the stake for perjury. In fact, the duel was delayed a month as the King and his court, which contained most of the country's senior dukes and generals, was held up on campaign in Flanders and could not return in time. Eager to see what was rapidly becoming the event of the season, the King ordered the duel postponed until 29 December so that he would be present for its culmination.\n\nOn the day decreed, Le Gris and Carrouges travelled through Paris to the Abbey of Saint-Martin-des-Champs in the city's northern suburbs. The abbey's field had been converted from a jousting ground to a wooden arena especially for the combat, surrounded by banks for the spectators and a royal box. Attending the duel was not only the King and his uncles John, Duke of Berry, Philip the Bold and Louis II, Duke of Bourbon and his brother the Duke of Orléans, but thousands of ordinary Parisians, Normans and visiting French. Thousands of people had flooded into the city in the days before the combat to see the spectacle, but all had been warned not to physically aid the combatants on pain of death nor call out during the fight on pain of losing a hand.\nAlthough legal accounts do not describe the course of the combat, contemporary chroniclers have left several records of the day's battle. According to the chronicles, the claimants entered the field last and before all present repeated their accusations against the other and swore oaths guaranteeing their honesty before the King, Parlement and God. Before they remounted, the marshal of the duel performed a brief ceremony in which he knighted Jacques Le Gris. This ceremony was traditional before battle, but also performed a part in maintaining the social structure of medieval France. With both men on the same social footing, there would be no defeat of a senior rank by a lesser one. Having been raised to the status of a knight, Sir Jacques regained his horse and the arena was cleared. Both knights were heavily armed and armoured, protected by a hide and wood shield bearing their coat of arms and thick plate armour, riding a heavy warhorse and wielding a lance, longsword, heavy battle axe and long dagger known as a misericordia.\n\nAt the marshal's signal, silence descended over the field and both knights spurred their horses and charged, their lances each striking the other's shield but not causing significant damage. Wheeling, both again struck, but failed to penetrate, scoring glancing blows on their helmets but remaining horsed. For a third time, they turned and charged and again they both struck. This time however the lances shattered, sending slivers of wood cartwheeling across the arena and nearly unseating both men. Regaining their balance, the knights closed on one another with battle axes drawn, trading furious two-handed blows. As the engagement progressed, Le Gris' superior strength began to tell and Carrouges was driven back until with a mighty swing, Le Gris' axe severed the spine of Carrouges' horse. The dying beast tumbled to the ground, Carrouges leaping clear and meeting Le Gris' charge with a side-step, allowing him to thrust his own axe's pike deep into the stomach of Le Gris' steed.\nAs his horse faltered and collapsed, Le Gris was thrown off and lost his axe. Undaunted, he rose and drew his longsword, turning to meet Carrouges who was already advancing on him, sword also drawn. Again the combatants traded blows, their weapons the only sounds heard in the silent battleground. Again, Le Gris' superior strength gave him an advantage, pushing Carrouges back before thrusting his blade through his opponent's thigh. As the crowd murmured, Le Gris made a fatal mistake; withdrawing his weapon, he stepped back to watch his wounded enemy and was thus off balance when the desperate Carrouges threw himself forwards, wrestling Le Gris to the ground and hacking at him with his own longsword. Although Le Gris' plate armour was too thick to allow Carrouges' weapon to penetrate, it was also so heavy that he could not regain his feet with Carrouges on top of him. Stranded on the ground, Le Gris struggled as Carrouges straddled him and used his sword to smash open the lock on Le Gris' faceplate. As the crowd watched in silence, Carrouges shouted in Le Gris' exposed face for him to confess his crime before death or face Hell. Le Gris replied so all could hear, \"In the name of God, and on the peril and damnation of my soul, I am innocent of the crime.\" Enraged, Carrouges drew his misericordia and thrust it through Le Gris' throat, killing him instantly.\n\nAt Le Gris' death the crowd cheered and the King greeted the victor with several fine presents. Carrouges became a wealthy and famous man as a result of his victory, but despite his end Le Gris was not forgotten. In the duel's immediate aftermath, the Executioner of Paris took charge of the body and stripped its armour and clothing before dragging it through the streets to the Gibbet of Montfaucon. There it was strung up alongside the bodies of murderers and thieves to rot before eventually being flung into a common grave. However, the memory of Jacques Le Gris was kept alive by his family and supporters for many years. His son Guillaume Le Gris paid over 200 francs for masses to be said for his father, \"a man of noble memory,\" and continued to pay similar sums for at least ten years after his death. Count Pierre too retained favourable memories of his advisor, taking revenge by blocking Carrouges' efforts to purchase more land or expand his influence in Normandy.\n\nIn the centuries since Le Gris' death the case has become an important cultural legend in France. The duel was the last trial by combat ever permitted by the Parlement de Paris or the French Kings and the guilt or innocence of its participants has been a source of great debate among historians and jurists. The contemporary chronicler Jean Froissart harbours no question over the guilt of Le Gris, whom he considers a villain. Later writers take a different view, including the Grandes Chroniques de France and the works of Jehan de Waurin, who repeat with varying details the tale of another culprit admitting his guilt on his deathbed. Other famous writers who studied the case include Diderot in his Encyclopédie and Voltaire in his \"Histoire du Parlement de Paris\". An imaginative version of the legend was repeated by the Encyclopædia Britannica until the 1970s.\n\nMore recently, several legal studies have been conducted by French jurists. These generally consider it likely that Le Gris was the real culprit based on Marguerite's evidence, although none of course could prove so conclusively. A major exception to this trend was a book written in 1890 by a descendant of Le Gris named F. White Le Grix, who makes a determined effort to defend his ancestor. Most recently, the story was studied in Eric Jager's work \"The Last Duel\", which also considers Le Gris the likely rapist and has attracted the interest of Martin Scorsese, who is reportedly planning to make a feature film based on the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "56468900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56468900", "title": "Jurisdictions of the United Kingdom", "text": "Jurisdictions of the United Kingdom\n\nThe Jurisdictions of the United Kingdom comprise three legal jurisdictions of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, namely: \n\nAlthough Scotland and Northern Ireland form part of the United Kingdom and share Westminster as a primary legislature, they have separate legal systems. (Even though Scotland became part of the UK over 300 years ago, Scots law has remained remarkably distinct from English law). The UK's highest civil appeal court is the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, whose decisions are binding on all three UK jurisdictions, as in \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", a Scots case that forms the basis of the UK's law of negligence.\n\n\"Great Britain\" means England, Wales, Scotland, their adjacent territorial waters and the islands of Orkney and Shetland, the Hebrides and, by virtue of the Island of Rockall Act 1972, Rockall. \"United Kingdom\" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland and their adjacent territorial waters, but not the Isle of Man, nor the Channel Islands, whose independent status was discussed in \"Rover International Ltd. v Canon Film Sales Ltd.\" (1987) and \"Chloride Industrial Batteries Ltd. v F. & W. Freight Ltd.\" (1989) . \"British Islands\"but not \"British Isles\"means the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.\n\nThe first schedule of the Interpretation Act 1978, defines the following terms: \"British Islands\", \"England\", and \"United Kingdom\". The use of the term \"British Isles\" is virtually obsolete in statutes and, when it does appear, it is taken to be synonymous with \"British Islands\". For interpretation purposes, England includes a number of specified elements:\n\n"}
{"id": "31172380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31172380", "title": "Jurors (Scotland) Act 1745", "text": "Jurors (Scotland) Act 1745\n\nThe Jurors (Scotland) Act 1745 (19 Geo 2 c 9) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, passed during the Jacobite Rising of 1745. Its long title was \"An act for the more easy and speedy trial of such persons as have levied, or shall levy war against his Majesty; and for the better ascertaining the qualifications of jurors in trials for high treason or misprision of treason, in that part of Great Britain called Scotland.\" It was one of the Juries (Scotland) Acts 1745 to 1869.\n\nIt enacted that anyone who was prosecuted for high treason could be tried anywhere in England, regardless of where they had first been indicted. Under common law a trial had to take place in the county where the crime happened. The preamble to the Act explained that this change to the law was necessary because many prisoners had been moved to other prisons \"for safer custody,\" or taken to London to be questioned, and it would have been inconvenient to transport them all back again. This exception to the rule had first been introduced as a temporary measure in 1715, during the first Jacobite Rising.\n\nThe Act also changed the criteria for jury service in trials for high treason and misprision of treason committed in Scotland.\n\nIt was repealed by section 2(1) of, and the Schedule to, the Treason Act 1945.\n\nAnother Act in the same year, 19 Geo.II c.26, stated that people named in the Act would automatically be attainted of treason unless they surrendered to the authorities by 12 July 1746.\n\n"}
{"id": "173505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173505", "title": "Just war theory", "text": "Just war theory\n\nJust war theory (Latin: \"jus bellum justum\") is a doctrine, also referred to as a tradition, of military ethics studied by military leaders, theologians, ethicists and policy makers. The purpose of the doctrine is to ensure war is morally justifiable through a series of criteria, all of which must be met for a war to be considered just. The criteria are split into two groups: \"right to go to war\" (\"jus ad bellum\") and \"right conduct in war\" (\"jus in bello\"). The first concerns the morality of going to war, and the second the moral conduct within war. Recently there have been calls for the inclusion of a third category of just war theory—\"jus post bellum\"—dealing with the morality of post-war settlement and reconstruction.\n\nJust war theory postulates that war, while terrible, is not always the worst option. Important responsibilities, undesirable outcomes, or preventable atrocities may justify war.\n\nOpponents of just war theory may be either inclined to a stricter pacifist standard (proposing that there has never been and/or can never be a justifiable basis for war) or toward a more permissive nationalist standard (proposing that a war need only serve a nation's interests to be justifiable). In a large number of cases, philosophers state that individuals need not be of guilty conscience if required to fight. A few ennoble the virtues of the soldier while declaring their apprehensions for war itself. A few, such as Rousseau, argue for insurrection against oppressive rule.\n\nThe historical aspect, or the \"just war tradition\", deals with the historical body of rules or agreements that have applied in various wars across the ages. The just war tradition also considers the writings of various philosophers and lawyers through history, and examines both their philosophical visions of war's ethical limits and whether their thoughts have contributed to the body of conventions that have evolved to guide war and warfare.\n\nThe Indian Hindu epic, the Mahabharata, offers one of the first written discussions of a \"just war\" (\"dharma-yuddha\" or \"righteous war\"). In it, one of five ruling brothers asks if the suffering caused by war can ever be justified, and then a long discussion ensues between the siblings, establishing criteria like \"proportionality\" (chariots cannot attack cavalry, only other chariots; no attacking people in distress), \"just means\" (no poisoned or barbed arrows), \"just cause\" (no attacking out of rage), and fair treatment of captives and the wounded.\nThe war in the Mahabharata is preceded by context that develops the \"just cause\" for the war including last minute efforts to reconcile differences to avoid war. At the beginning of the war, there is the discussion of \"just conduct\" appropriate to the context of war.\n\nA 2017 study found that the just war tradition can be traced as far back as to Ancient Egypt, \"demonstrating that just war thought developed beyond the boundaries of Europe and existed many centuries earlier than the advent of Christianity or even the emergence of Greco-Roman doctrine.\"\n\nIn ancient Rome, a \"just cause\" for war might include the necessity of repelling an invasion, or retaliation for pillaging or a breach of treaty. War was always potentially \"nefas\" (\"wrong, forbidden\"), and risked religious pollution and divine disfavor. A \"just war\" (\"bellum iustum\") thus required a ritualized declaration by the fetial priests. More broadly, conventions of war and treaty-making were part of the \"ius gentium\", the \"law of nations\", the customary moral obligations regarded as innate and universal to human beings. The quintessential explanation of Just War theory in the ancient world is found in Cicero's \"De Officiis\", Book 1, sections 1.11.33–1.13.41. Although, it is well known that Julius Caesar did not often follow these necessities. \n\nChristian theory of the Just War begins with Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas.\n\nAugustine of Hippo claimed that, while individuals should not resort immediately to violence, God has given the sword to government for good reason (based upon Romans 13:4). In \"Contra Faustum Manichaeum\" book 22 sections 69–76, Augustine argues that Christians, as part of a government, need not be ashamed of protecting peace and punishing wickedness when forced to do so by a government. Augustine asserted that this was a personal, philosophical stance: \"What is here required is not a bodily action, but an inward disposition. The sacred seat of virtue is the heart.\"\n\nNonetheless, he asserted, peacefulness in the face of a grave wrong that could only be stopped by violence would be a sin. Defense of one's self or others could be a necessity, especially when authorized by a legitimate authority:They who have waged war in obedience to the divine command, or in conformity with His laws, have represented in their persons the public justice or the wisdom of government, and in this capacity have put to death wicked men; such persons have by no means violated the commandment, \"Thou shalt not kill.\"While not breaking down the conditions necessary for war to be just, Augustine nonetheless originated the very phrase itself in his work \"The City of God\":But, say they, the wise man will wage Just Wars. As if he would not all the rather lament the necessity of just wars, if he remembers that he is a man; for if they were not just he would not wage them, and would therefore be delivered from all wars.J. Mark Mattox writes that, for the individual Christian under the rule of a government engaged in an immoral war, Augustine admonished that Christians, \"by divine edict, have no choice but to subject themselves to their political masters and [should] seek to ensure that they execute their war-fighting duty as justly as possible.\"\n\nNine hundred years later, Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274) laid out the conditions under which a war could be justified (combining the theological principles of faith with the philosophical principles of reason, he ranked among the most influential thinkers of medieval Scholasticism):\n\nIn the Summa Theologica, Thomas proceeded to distinguish between philosophy and theology, and between reason and revelation, though he emphasized that these did not contradict each other. Both are fountains of knowledge; both come from God.\n\nThe School of Salamanca expanded on Thomistic understanding of natural law and just war. It stated that war is one of the worst evils suffered by mankind. The School's adherents reasoned that war should be a last resort, and only then, when necessary to prevent an even greater evil. Diplomatic resolution is always preferable, even for the more powerful party, before a war is started. Examples of \"just war\" are:\n\nA war is not legitimate or illegitimate simply based on its original motivation: it must comply with a series of additional requirements:\n\nUnder this doctrine expansionist wars, wars of pillage, wars to convert infidels or pagans, and wars for glory are all inherently unjust.\n\nThe just war doctrine of the Catholic Church—sometimes mistaken as the \"just war theory\"—found in the 1992 \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", in paragraph 2309, lists four strict conditions for \"legitimate defense by military force\":\n\nThe \"Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church\" elaborates on the Just War Doctrine in paragraphs 500 to 501:\n\nThe first work dedicated specifically to it was \"De bellis justis\" of Stanisław of Skarbimierz (1360–1431), who justified war by the Kingdom of Poland with Teutonic Knights. Francisco de Vitoria criticized the conquest of America by the Kingdom of Spain on the basis of just war theory. With Alberico Gentili and Hugo Grotius just war theory was replaced by international law theory, codified as a set of rules, which today still encompass the points commonly debated, with some modifications. The importance of the theory of just war faded with the revival of classical republicanism beginning with works of Thomas Hobbes.\n\nAlthough the criticism can be made that the application of just war theory is relativistic, one of the fundamental bases of the tradition is the Ethic of Reciprocity, particularly when it comes to \"in bello\" considerations of deportment during battle. If one set of combatants promise to treat their enemies with a modicum of restraint and respect, then the hope is that other sets of combatants will do similarly in reciprocation, (a concept not unrelated to the considerations of Game Theory).\n\nJust war theorists combine a moral abhorrence towards war with a readiness to accept that war may sometimes be necessary. The criteria of the just war tradition act as an aid to determining whether resorting to arms is morally permissible. Just war theories are attempts \"to distinguish between justifiable and unjustifiable uses of organized armed forces\"; they attempt \"to conceive of how the use of arms might be restrained, made more humane, and ultimately directed towards the aim of establishing lasting peace and justice\".\n\nThe just war tradition addresses the morality of the use of force in two parts: when it is right to resort to armed force (the concern of \"jus ad bellum\") and what is acceptable in using such force (the concern of \"jus in bello\"). In more recent years, a third category—\"jus post bellum\"—has been added, which governs the justice of war termination and peace agreements, as well as the prosecution of war criminals.\n\nSoviet leader Vladimir Lenin defined only three types of just war, all of which share the central trait of being revolutionary in character. In simple terms: \"To the Russian workers has fallen the honour and the good fortune of being the first to start the revolution—the great and only legitimate and just war, the war of the oppressed against the oppressors.\", with these two opposing categories being defined in terms of class, as is typical in the left. In that manner, Lenin shunned the more common interpretation of a defensive war as a just one -- often summarized as \"who fired the first shot?\" -- precisely because it didn't take in consideration the class factor. Which side initiated aggressions or had a grievance or any other commonly considered factor of \"jus ad bellum\" mattered not at all, he claimed; if one side was being oppressed by the other, the war against the oppressor would always be, by definition, a defensive war anyway. Any war lacking this duality of oppressed and oppressor was, in contradistinction, always a reactionary, unjust war, in which the oppressed effectively fight in order to protect their own oppressors:\n\n\"But picture to yourselves a slave-owner who owned 100 slaves warring against a slave-owner who owned 200 slaves for a more \"just\" distribution of slaves. Clearly, the application of the term \"defensive\" war, or war \"for the defence of the fatherland\" in such a case would be historically false, and in practice would be sheer deception of the common people, of philistines, of ignorant people, by the astute slaveowners. Precisely in this way are the present-day imperialist bourgeoisie deceiving the peoples by means of \"national ideology\" and the term \"defence of the fatherland\" in the present war between slave-owners for fortifying and strengthening slavery.\"\nAnarcho-capitalist scholar Murray Rothbard stated: \"a \"just\" war exists when a people tries to ward off the threat of coercive domination by another people, or to overthrow an already-existing domination. A war is \"unjust\", on the other hand, when a people try to impose domination on another people, or try to retain an already existing coercive rule over them.\"\n\nJonathan Riley-Smith writes,\n\nThe consensus among Christians on the use of violence has changed radically since the crusades were fought. The just war theory prevailing for most of the last two centuries—that violence is an evil that can, in certain situations, be condoned as the lesser of evils—is relatively young. Although it has inherited some elements (the criteria of legitimate authority, just cause, right intention) from the older war theory that first evolved around AD 400, it has rejected two premises that underpinned all medieval just wars, including crusades: first, that violence could be employed on behalf of Christ's intentions for mankind and could even be directly authorized by him; and second, that it was a morally neutral force that drew whatever ethical coloring it had from the intentions of the perpetrators.\n\nJust War Theory has two sets of criteria, the first establishing \"jus ad bellum\" (the right to go to war), and the second establishing \"jus in bello\" (right conduct within war).\n\n\nIn modern terms, just war is waged in terms of self-defense, or in defense of another (with sufficient evidence).\n\nOnce war has begun, just war theory (\"jus in bello\") also directs how combatants are to act or should act:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn April 1917, two weeks after the United States Congress declared war on Germany, Cardinal James Gibbons of Baltimore, the \"de facto\" head of the U.S. Catholic church, issued a letter that all Catholics were to support the war. The Episcopal bishop of New York, William Manning said the following: \nIn recent years, some theorists, such as Gary Bass, Louis Iasiello and Brian Orend, have proposed a third category within Just War theory. \"Jus post bellum\" concerns justice after a war, including peace treaties, reconstruction, environmental remediation, war crimes trials, and war reparations. \"Jus post bellum\" has been added to deal with the fact that some hostile actions may take place outside a traditional battlefield. \"Jus post bellum\" governs the justice of war termination and peace agreements, as well as the prosecution of war criminals, and publicly labeled terrorists. This idea has largely been added to help decide what to do if there are prisoners that have been taken during battle. It is, through government labeling and public opinion, that people use \"jus post bellum\" to justify the pursuit of labeled terrorist for the safety of the government's state in a modern context. The actual fault lies with the aggressor, so by being the aggressor they forfeit their rights for honorable treatment by their actions. This is the theory used to justify the actions taken by anyone fighting in a war to treat prisoners outside of war. Actions after a conflict can be warranted by actions observed during war, meaning that there can be justification to meet violence with violence even after war. Orend, who was one of the theorist mentioned earlier, proposes the following principles:\n\n\nThere are many theories that correlate with the Just War Theory doctrine, which include:\n\n\nThese theorists either approve of war as retaliation, or of war as a last resort.\n\n\nThese theorists do not approve of war, but provide arguments for justifying retaliation when another starts war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2784824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784824", "title": "Laesio enormis", "text": "Laesio enormis\n\nLaesio enormis (Latin: \"abnormal harm\") is a legal doctrine that gives a contracting party the ability to rescind an agreement if the price of exchange is less than a certain sum (for instance one half, or two thirds) of its actual value. The principle was developed as a way to ensure that people received a just price (\"iustum pretium\") in exchange, and in opposition to the Imperial Roman view, found in the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\", that the parties to an exchange were entitled to try to outwit one another.\n\nThe Louisiana Civil Code article 2589 permits rescission for lesion beyond moiety. It states that the seller may rescind the sale of an immovable when the price, or the property it is exchanged for, is less than one half of the fair market value. Special rules apply to exchanges that have one party exchanging immovable property for a mixture of immovable or movable property, and cash—the party exchanging the mixture of property has the right to rescind the exchange, not the party exchanging the immovable.\n\nThe Austrian Civil Code §934 also allows the contracting party to rescind for lesion beyond moiety (\"Verkürzung über die Hälfte\") if the rescinding party receives less than half of the fair value of the consideration. The other party may avert rescission by agreeing to pay the difference to full value. This form of \"laesio enormis\" has been criticized from a legal and economics perspective for its inefficient incentives. In many cases it is impossible to profit from gathering information because profits above the mentioned threshold are prohibited by the law. \n\n"}
{"id": "17541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17541", "title": "Lawyer", "text": "Lawyer\n\nA lawyer or attorney is a person who practices law, as an advocate, attorney, attorney at law, barrister, barrister-at-law, bar-at-law, counsel, counselor, counsellor, counselor at law, solicitor, chartered legal executive, or public servant preparing, interpreting and applying law but not as a paralegal or charter executive secretary. Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those who hire lawyers to perform legal services.\n\nThe role of the lawyer varies greatly across legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms.\n\nIn practice, legal jurisdictions exercise their right to determine who is recognized as being a lawyer. As a result, the meaning of the term \"lawyer\" may vary from place to place. Some jurisdictions have two types of lawyers, barristers and solicitors. Whilst others fuse the two. A barrister is a lawyer who specialises in higher court appearances. A solicitor is a lawyer who is trained to prepare cases and give advice on legal subjects and can represent people in lower courts. Both barristers and solicitors have gone through law school, completed the requisite practical training. However, in jurisdictions where there is a split-profession, only barristers are admitted as members of their respective bar association.\n\nIn most countries, particularly civil law countries, there has been a tradition of giving many legal tasks to a variety of civil law notaries, clerks, and scriveners. These countries do not have \"lawyers\" in the American sense, insofar as that term refers to a single type of general-purpose legal services provider; rather, their legal professions consist of a large number of different kinds of law-trained persons, known as jurists, some of whom are advocates who are licensed to practice in the courts. It is difficult to formulate accurate generalizations that cover all the countries with multiple legal professions, because each country has traditionally had its own peculiar method of dividing up legal work among all its different types of legal professionals.\n\nNotably, England, the mother of the common law jurisdictions, emerged from the Dark Ages with similar complexity in its legal professions, but then evolved by the 19th century to a single dichotomy between barristers and solicitors. An equivalent dichotomy developed between advocates and procurators in some civil law countries; these two types did not always monopolize the practice of law, in that they coexisted with civil law notaries.\n\nSeveral countries that originally had two or more legal professions have since \"fused\" or \"united\" their professions into a single type of lawyer. Most countries in this category are common law countries, though France, a civil law country, merged its jurists in 1990 and 1991 in response to Anglo-American competition. In countries with fused professions, a lawyer is usually permitted to carry out all or nearly all the responsibilities listed below.\n\nArguing a client's case before a judge or jury in a court of law is the traditional province of the barrister in England, and of advocates in some civil law jurisdictions. However, the boundary between barristers and solicitors has evolved. In England today, the barrister monopoly covers only appellate courts, and barristers must compete directly with solicitors in many trial courts. In countries like the United States, that have fused legal professions, there are trial lawyers who specialize in trying cases in court, but trial lawyers do not have a \"de jure\" monopoly like barristers. In some countries, litigants have the option of arguing \"pro se\", or on their own behalf. It is common for litigants to appear unrepresented before certain courts like small claims courts; indeed, many such courts do not allow lawyers to speak for their clients, in an effort to save money for all participants in a small case. In other countries, like Venezuela, no one may appear before a judge unless represented by a lawyer. The advantage of the latter regime is that lawyers are familiar with the court's customs and procedures, and make the legal system more efficient for all involved. Unrepresented parties often damage their own credibility or slow the court down as a result of their inexperience.\n\nOften, lawyers brief a court in writing on the issues in a case before the issues can be orally argued. They may have to perform extensive research into relevant facts and law while drafting legal papers and preparing for oral argument.\n\nIn England, the usual division of labor is that a solicitor will obtain the facts of the case from the client and then brief a barrister (usually in writing). The barrister then researches and drafts the necessary court pleadings (which will be filed and served by the solicitor) and orally argues the case.\n\nIn Spain, the procurator merely signs and presents the papers to the court, but it is the advocate who drafts the papers and argues the case.\n\nIn some countries, like Japan, a scrivener or clerk may fill out court forms and draft simple papers for lay persons who cannot afford or do not need attorneys, and advise them on how to manage and argue their own cases.\n\nIn most developed countries, the legislature has granted original jurisdiction over highly technical matters to executive branch administrative agencies which oversee such things. As a result, some lawyers have become specialists in administrative law. In a few countries, there is a special category of jurists with a monopoly over this form of advocacy; for example, France formerly had \"conseils juridiques\" (who were merged into the main legal profession in 1991). In other countries, like the United States, lawyers have been effectively barred by statute from certain types of administrative hearings in order to preserve their informality.\n\nAn important aspect of a lawyer's job is developing and managing relationships with clients (or the client's employees, if the lawyer works in-house for a government or corporation). The client-lawyer relationship often begins with an intake interview where the lawyer gets to know the client personally, discovers the facts of the client's case, clarifies what the client wants to accomplish, shapes the client's expectations as to what actually can be accomplished, begins to develop various claims or defenses, and explains her or his fees to the client.\n\nIn England, only solicitors were traditionally in direct contact with the client. The solicitor retained a barrister if one was necessary and acted as an intermediary between the barrister and the client. In most cases barristers were obliged, under what is known as the \"cab rank rule\", to accept instructions for a case in an area in which they held themselves out as practicing, at a court at which they normally appeared and at their usual rates.\n\nLegal advice is the application of abstract principles of law to the concrete facts of the client's case in order to advise the client about what they should do next. In many countries, only a properly licensed lawyer may provide legal advice to clients for good consideration, even if no lawsuit is contemplated or is in progress. Therefore, even conveyancers and corporate in-house counsel must first get a license to practice, though they may actually spend very little of their careers in court. Failure to obey such a rule is the crime of unauthorized practice of law.\n\nIn other countries, jurists who hold law degrees are allowed to provide legal advice to individuals or to corporations, and it is irrelevant if they lack a license and cannot appear in court. Some countries go further; in England and Wales, there is \"no\" general prohibition on the giving of legal advice. Sometimes civil law notaries are allowed to give legal advice, as in Belgium.\nIn many countries, non-jurist accountants may provide what is technically legal advice in tax and accounting matters.\n\nIn virtually all countries, patents, trademarks, industrial designs and other forms of intellectual property must be formally registered with a government agency in order to receive maximum protection under the law. The division of such work among lawyers, licensed non-lawyer jurists/agents, and ordinary clerks or scriveners varies greatly from one country to the next.\n\nIn some countries, the negotiating and drafting of contracts is considered to be similar to the provision of legal advice, so that it is subject to the licensing requirement explained above. In others, jurists or notaries may negotiate or draft contracts.\n\nLawyers in some civil law countries traditionally deprecated \"transactional law\" or \"business law\" as beneath them. French law firms developed transactional departments only in the 1990s when they started to lose business to international firms based in the United States and the United Kingdom (where solicitors have always done transactional work).\n\nConveyancing is the drafting of the documents necessary for the transfer of real property, such as deeds and mortgages. In some jurisdictions, all real estate transactions must be carried out by a lawyer (or a solicitor where that distinction still exists). Such a monopoly is quite valuable from the lawyer's point of view; historically, conveyancing accounted for about half of English solicitors' income (though this has since changed), and a 1978 study showed that conveyancing \"accounts for as much as 80 percent of solicitor-client contact in New South Wales.\" In most common law jurisdictions outside of the United States, this monopoly arose from an 1804 law that was introduced by William Pitt the Younger as a \"quid pro quo\" for the raising of fees on the certification of legal professionals such as barristers, solicitors, attorneys and notaries.\n\nIn others, the use of a lawyer is optional and banks, title companies, or realtors may be used instead. In some civil law jurisdictions, real estate transactions are handled by civil law notaries. In England and Wales a special class of legal professional–the licensed conveyancer–is also allowed to carry out conveyancing services for reward.\n\nIn many countries, only lawyers have the legal authority to draft wills, trusts, and any other documents that ensure the efficient disposition of a person's property after death. In some civil law countries this responsibility is handled by civil law notaries.\n\nIn the United States, the estates of the deceased must generally be administered by a court through probate. American lawyers have a profitable monopoly on dispensing advice about probate law (which has been heavily criticized).\n\nIn many civil law countries, prosecutors are trained and employed as part of the judiciary; they are law-trained jurists, but may not necessarily be lawyers in the sense that the word is used in the common law world. In common law countries, prosecutors are usually lawyers holding regular licenses who simply happen to work for the government office that files criminal charges against suspects. Criminal defense lawyers specialize in the defense of those charged with any crimes.\n\nThe educational prerequisites for becoming a lawyer vary greatly from country to country. In some countries, law is taught by a faculty of law, which is a department of a university's general undergraduate college. Law students in those countries pursue a Master or Bachelor of Laws degree. In some countries it is common or even required for students to earn another bachelor's degree at the same time. Nor is the LL.B the sole obstacle; it is often followed by a series of advanced examinations, apprenticeships, and additional coursework at special government institutes.\n\nIn other countries, particularly the UK and U.S.A., law is primarily taught at law schools. In America, the American Bar Association decides which law schools to approve and thereby which ones are deemed most respectable. In England and Wales, the Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) must be taken to have the right to work and be named as a barrister. Students who decide to pursue a non-law subject at degree level can instead study the Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) after their degrees, before beginning the Legal Practise Course (LPC) or BPTC. In the United States and countries following the American model, (such as Canada with the exception of the province of Quebec) law schools are graduate/professional schools where a bachelor's degree is a prerequisite for admission. Most law schools are part of universities but a few are independent institutions. Law schools in the United States and Canada (with the exception of McGill University) award graduating students a J.D. (Juris Doctor/Doctor of Jurisprudence) (as opposed to the Bachelor of Laws) as the practitioner's law degree. Many schools also offer post-doctoral law degrees such as the LL.M (Legum Magister/Master of Laws), or the S.J.D. (Scientiae Juridicae Doctor/Doctor of Juridical Science) for students interested in advancing their research knowledge and credentials in a specific area of law.\n\nThe methods and quality of legal education vary widely. Some countries require extensive clinical training in the form of apprenticeships or special clinical courses. Others, like Venezuela, do not. A few countries prefer to teach through assigned readings of judicial opinions (the casebook method) followed by intense in-class cross-examination by the professor (the Socratic method). Many others have only lectures on highly abstract legal doctrines, which forces young lawyers to figure out how to actually think and write like a lawyer at their first apprenticeship (or job). Depending upon the country, a typical class size could range from five students in a seminar to five hundred in a giant lecture room. In the United States, law schools maintain small class sizes, and as such, grant admissions on a more limited and competitive basis.\n\nSome countries, particularly industrialized ones, have a traditional preference for full-time law programs, while in developing countries, students often work full- or part-time to pay the tuition and fees of their part-time law programs.\n\nLaw schools in developing countries share several common problems, such as an over reliance on practicing judges and lawyers who treat teaching as a part-time hobby (and a concomitant scarcity of full-time law professors); incompetent faculty with questionable credentials; and textbooks that lag behind the current state of the law by two or three decades.\n\nSome jurisdictions grant a \"diploma privilege\" to certain institutions, so that merely earning a degree or credential from those institutions is the primary qualification for practicing law. Mexico allows anyone with a law degree to practice law. However, in a large number of countries, a law student must pass a bar examination (or a series of such examinations) before receiving a license to practice. In a handful of U.S. states, one may become an attorney (a so-called country lawyer) by simply \"reading law\" and passing the bar examination, without having to attend law school first (although very few people actually become lawyers that way).\n\nSome countries require a formal apprenticeship with an experienced practitioner, while others do not. For example, a few jurisdictions still allow an apprenticeship in place of any kind of formal legal education (though the number of persons who actually become lawyers that way is increasingly rare).\n\nThe career structure of lawyers varies widely from one country to the next.\n\nIn most common law countries, especially those with fused professions, lawyers have many options over the course of their careers. Besides private practice, they can become a prosecutor, government counsel, corporate in-house counsel, administrative law judge, judge, arbitrator, or law professor. There are also many non-legal jobs for which legal training is good preparation, such as politician, corporate executive, government administrator, investment banker, entrepreneur, or journalist. In developing countries like India, a large majority of law students never actually practice, but simply use their law degree as a foundation for careers in other fields.\n\nIn most civil law countries, lawyers generally structure their legal education around their chosen specialty; the boundaries between different types of lawyers are carefully defined and hard to cross. After one earns a law degree, career mobility may be severely constrained. For example, unlike their American counterparts, it is difficult for German judges to leave the bench and become advocates in private practice. Another interesting example is France, where for much of the 20th century, all judiciary officials were graduates of an elite professional school for judges. Although the French judiciary has begun experimenting with the Anglo-American model of appointing judges from accomplished advocates, the few advocates who have actually joined the bench this way are looked down upon by their colleagues who have taken the traditional route to judicial office.\n\nIn a few civil law countries, such as Sweden, the legal profession is \"not\" rigorously bifurcated and everyone within it can easily change roles and arenas.\n\nIn many countries, lawyers are general practitioners who represent clients in a broad field of legal matters. In others, there has been a tendency since the start of the 20th century for lawyers to specialize early in their careers.\n\nIn countries where specialization is prevalent, many lawyers specialize in representing one side in one particular area of the law; thus, it is common in the United States to hear of plaintiffs' personal injury attorneys. Texas offers attorneys the opportunity to receive a board certification through the state's Texas Board of Legal Specialization. To be board certified, attorney applicants undergo a rigorous examination in one of 24 areas of practice offered by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization. Only those attorneys who are \"board certified\" are permitted to use the word \"specialize\" in any publicly accessible materials such as a website or television commercial. See Texas Rule 7.02(a)(6).\n\nLawyers in private practice generally work in specialized businesses known as law firms, with the exception of English barristers. The vast majority of law firms worldwide are small businesses that range in size from 1 to 10 lawyers. The United States, with its large number of firms with more than 50 lawyers, is an exception. The United Kingdom and Australia are also exceptions, as the UK, Australia and the U.S. are now home to several firms with more than 1,000 lawyers after a wave of mergers in the late 1990s.\n\nNotably, barristers in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and some states in Australia do \"not\" work in \"law firms\". Those who offer their services to members of the general public—as opposed to those working \"in-house\" — are required to be self-employed. Most work in groupings known as \"sets\" or \"chambers\", where some administrative and marketing costs are shared. An important effect of this different organizational structure is that there is no conflict of interest where barristers in the same chambers work for opposing sides in a case, and in some specialized chambers this is commonplace.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, either the judiciary or the Ministry of Justice directly supervises the admission, licensing, and regulation of lawyers.\n\nOther jurisdictions, by statute, tradition, or court order, have granted such powers to a professional association which all lawyers must belong to. In the U.S., such associations are known as mandatory, integrated, or unified bar associations. In the Commonwealth of Nations, similar organizations are known as Inns of Court, bar councils or law societies. In civil law countries, comparable organizations are known as Orders of Advocates, Chambers of Advocates, Colleges of Advocates, Faculties of Advocates, or similar names. Generally, a nonmember caught practicing law may be liable for the crime of unauthorized practice of law.\n\nIn common law countries with divided legal professions, barristers traditionally belong to the bar council (or an Inn of Court) and solicitors belong to the law society. In the English-speaking world, the largest mandatory professional association of lawyers is the State Bar of California, with 230,000 members.\n\nSome countries admit and regulate lawyers at the national level, so that a lawyer, once licensed, can argue cases in any court in the land. This is common in small countries like New Zealand, Japan, and Belgium. Others, especially those with federal governments, tend to regulate lawyers at the state or provincial level; this is the case in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Switzerland, to name a few. Brazil is the most well-known federal government that regulates lawyers at the national level.\n\nSome countries, like Italy, regulate lawyers at the regional level, and a few, like Belgium, even regulate them at the local level (that is, they are licensed and regulated by the local equivalent of bar associations but can advocate in courts nationwide). In Germany, lawyers are admitted to regional bars and may appear for clients before all courts nationwide with the exception of the Federal Court of Justice of Germany (\"Bundesgerichtshof\" or BGH); oddly, securing admission to the BGH's bar limits a lawyer's practice solely to the supreme federal courts and the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany.\n\nGenerally, geographic limitations can be troublesome for a lawyer who discovers that his client's cause requires him to litigate in a court beyond the normal geographic scope of his license. Although most courts have special \"pro hac vice\" rules for such occasions, the lawyer will still have to deal with a different set of professional responsibility rules, as well as the possibility of other differences in substantive and procedural law.\n\nSome countries grant licenses to non-resident lawyers, who may then appear regularly on behalf of foreign clients. Others require all lawyers to live in the jurisdiction or to even hold national citizenship as a prerequisite for receiving a license to practice. But the trend in industrialized countries since the 1970s has been to abolish citizenship and residency restrictions. For example, the Supreme Court of Canada struck down a citizenship requirement on equality rights grounds in 1989, and similarly, American citizenship and residency requirements were struck down as unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1973 and 1985, respectively. The European Court of Justice made similar decisions in 1974 and 1977 striking down citizenship restrictions in Belgium and France.\n\nA key difference among countries is whether lawyers should be regulated solely by an independent judiciary and its subordinate institutions (a self-regulating legal profession), or whether lawyers should be subject to supervision by the Ministry of Justice in the executive branch.\n\nIn most civil law countries, the government has traditionally exercised tight control over the legal profession in order to ensure a steady supply of loyal judges and bureaucrats. That is, lawyers were expected first and foremost to serve the state, and the availability of counsel for private litigants was an afterthought. Even in civil law countries like Norway which have partially self-regulating professions, the Ministry of Justice is the sole issuer of licenses, and makes its own independent re-evaluation of a lawyer's fitness to practice after a lawyer has been expelled from the Advocates' Association. Brazil is an unusual exception in that its national Order of Advocates has become a fully self-regulating institution (with direct control over licensing) and has successfully resisted government attempts to place it under the control of the Ministry of Labor.\n\nOf all the civil law countries, Communist countries historically went the farthest towards total state control, with all Communist lawyers forced to practice in collectives by the mid-1950s. China is a prime example: technically, the People's Republic of China did not have lawyers, and instead had only poorly trained, state-employed \"legal workers,\" prior to the enactment of a comprehensive reform package in 1996 by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress.\n\nIn contrast, common law lawyers have traditionally regulated themselves through institutions where the influence of non-lawyers, if any, was weak and indirect (despite nominal state control). Such institutions have been traditionally dominated by private practitioners who opposed strong state control of the profession on the grounds that it would endanger the ability of lawyers to zealously and competently advocate their clients' causes in the adversarial system of justice.\n\nHowever, the concept of the self-regulating profession has been criticized as a sham which serves to legitimize the professional monopoly while protecting the profession from public scrutiny. Disciplinary mechanisms have been astonishingly ineffective, and penalties have been light or nonexistent.\n\nLawyers are always free to form voluntary associations of their own, apart from any licensing or mandatory membership that may be required by the laws of their jurisdiction. Like their mandatory counterparts, such organizations may exist at all geographic levels. In American English, such associations are known as voluntary bar associations. The largest voluntary professional association of lawyers in the English-speaking world is the American Bar Association.\n\nIn some countries, like France and Italy, lawyers have also formed trade unions.\n\nHostility towards the legal profession is a widespread phenomenon. The legal profession was abolished in Prussia in 1780 and in France in 1789, though both countries eventually realized that their judicial systems could not function efficiently without lawyers. Complaints about too many lawyers were common in both England and the United States in the 1840s, Germany in the 1910s, and in Australia, Canada, the United States, and Scotland in the 1980s.\n\nPublic distrust of lawyers reached record heights in the United States after the Watergate scandal. In the aftermath of Watergate, legal self-help books became popular among those who wished to solve their legal problems without having to deal with lawyers. Lawyer jokes (already a perennial favorite) also soared in popularity in English-speaking North America as a result of Watergate. In 1989, American legal self-help publisher Nolo Press published a 171-page compilation of negative anecdotes about lawyers from throughout human history.\n\nIn \"Adventures in Law and Justice\" (2003), legal researcher Bryan Horrigan dedicated a chapter to \"Myths, Fictions, and Realities\" about law and illustrated the perennial criticism of lawyers as \"amoral [...] guns for hire\" with a quote from Ambrose Bierce's satirical \"The Devil's Dictionary\" (1911) that summarized the noun as: \"LAWYER, n. One skilled in circumvention of the law.\"\n\nMore generally, in \"Legal Ethics: A Comparative Study\" (2004), law professor Geoffrey C. Hazard, Jr. with Angelo Dondi briefly examined the \"regulations attempting to suppress lawyer misconduct\" and noted that their similarity around the world was paralleled by a \"remarkable consistency\" in certain \"persistent grievances\" about lawyers that transcends both time and locale, from the Bible to medieval England to dynastic China. The authors then generalized these common complaints about lawyers as being classified into five \"general categories\" as follows:\n\n\nSome studies have shown that suicide rates among lawyers may be as much as six times higher than the average population, and commentators suggest that the low opinion the public has of lawyers, combined with their own high ideals of justice, which in practice they may see denied, increase the depression rates of those in this profession. Additionally, lawyers are twice as likely to suffer from addiction to alcohol and other drugs.\n\nIn the United States, lawyers typically earn between $45,000 and $160,000 per year, although earnings vary by age and experience, practice setting, sex, and race.\nSolo practitioners typically earn less than lawyers in corporate law firms but more than those working for state or local government.\n\nLawyers are paid for their work in a variety of ways. In private practice, they may work for an hourly fee according to a billable hour structure, a contingency fee (usually in cases involving personal injury), or a lump sum payment if the matter is straightforward. Normally, most lawyers negotiate a written fee agreement up front and may require a non-refundable retainer in advance. Recent studies suggest that when lawyers charge a fixed-fee rather than billing by the hour, they work less hard on behalf of clients and client get worse outcomes. In many countries there are fee-shifting arrangements by which the loser must pay the winner's fees and costs; the United States is the major exception, although in turn, its legislators have carved out many exceptions to the so-called \"American Rule\" of no fee shifting.\n\nLawyers working directly on the payroll of governments, nonprofits, and corporations usually earn a regular annual salary. In many countries, with the notable exception of Germany, lawyers can also volunteer their labor in the service of worthy causes through an arrangement called \"pro bono\" (short for \"pro bono publico\", \"for the common good\"). Traditionally such work was performed on behalf of the poor, but in some countries it has now expanded to many other causes such as the environment.\n\nIn some countries, there are legal aid lawyers who specialize in providing legal services to the indigent. France and Spain even have formal fee structures by which lawyers are compensated by the government for legal aid cases on a per-case basis. A similar system, though not as extensive or generous, operates in Australia, Canada, and South Africa.\n\nIn other countries, legal aid specialists are practically nonexistent. This may be because non-lawyers are allowed to provide such services; in both Italy and Belgium, trade unions and political parties provide what can be characterized as legal aid services. Some legal aid in Belgium is also provided by young lawyer apprentices subsidized by local bar associations (known as the \"pro deo\" system), as well as consumer protection nonprofit organizations and Public Assistance Agencies subsidized by local governments. In Germany, mandatory fee structures have enabled widespread implementation of affordable legal expense insurance.\n\nThe earliest people who could be described as \"lawyers\" were probably the orators of ancient Athens (see History of Athens). However, Athenian orators faced serious structural obstacles. First, there was a rule that individuals were supposed to plead their own cases, which was soon bypassed by the increasing tendency of individuals to ask a \"friend\" for assistance. However, around the middle of the fourth century, the Athenians disposed of the perfunctory request for a friend. Second, a more serious obstacle, which the Athenian orators never completely overcame, was the rule that no one could take a fee to plead the cause of another. This law was widely disregarded in practice, but was never abolished, which meant that orators could \"never\" present themselves as legal professionals or experts. They had to uphold the legal fiction that they were merely an ordinary citizen generously helping out a friend for free, and thus they could never organize into a real profession—with professional associations and titles and all the other pomp and circumstance—like their modern counterparts. Therefore, if one narrows the definition to those men who could practice the legal profession openly and legally, then the first lawyers would have to be the orators of ancient Rome.\n\nA law enacted in 204 BC barred Roman advocates from taking fees, but the law was widely ignored. The ban on fees was abolished by Emperor Claudius, who legalized advocacy as a profession and allowed the Roman advocates to become the first lawyers who could practice openly—but he also imposed a fee ceiling of 10,000 sesterces. This was apparently not much money; the Satires of Juvenal complained that there was no money in working as an advocate.\n\nLike their Greek contemporaries, early Roman advocates were trained in rhetoric, not law, and the judges before whom they argued were also not law-trained. But very early on, unlike Athens, Rome developed a class of specialists who were learned in the law, known as jurisconsults (\"iuris consulti\"). Jurisconsults were wealthy amateurs who dabbled in law as an intellectual hobby; they did not make their primary living from it. They gave legal opinions (\"responsa\") on legal issues to all comers (a practice known as \"publice respondere\"). Roman judges and governors would routinely consult with an advisory panel of jurisconsults before rendering a decision, and advocates and ordinary people also went to jurisconsults for legal opinions. Thus, the Romans were the first to have a class of people who spent their days thinking about legal problems, and this is why their law became so \"precise, detailed, and technical.\"\nDuring the Roman Republic and the early Roman Empire, jurisconsults and advocates were unregulated, since the former were amateurs and the latter were technically illegal. Any citizen could call himself an advocate or a legal expert, though whether people believed him would depend upon his personal reputation. This changed once Claudius legalized the legal profession. By the start of the Byzantine Empire, the legal profession had become well-established, heavily regulated, and highly stratified. The centralization and bureaucratization of the profession was apparently gradual at first, but accelerated during the reign of Emperor Hadrian. At the same time, the jurisconsults went into decline during the imperial period.\n\nIn the words of Fritz Schulz, \"by the fourth century things had changed in the eastern Empire: advocates now were really lawyers.\" For example, by the fourth century, advocates had to be enrolled on the bar of a court to argue before it, they could only be attached to one court at a time, and there were restrictions (which came and went depending upon who was emperor) on how many advocates could be enrolled at a particular court. By the 380s, advocates were studying law in addition to rhetoric (thus reducing the need for a separate class of jurisconsults); in 460, Emperor Leo imposed a requirement that new advocates seeking admission had to produce testimonials from their teachers; and by the sixth century, a regular course of legal study lasting about four years was required for admission. Claudius's fee ceiling lasted all the way into the Byzantine period, though by then it was measured at 100 solidi. It was widely evaded, either through demands for maintenance and expenses or a \"sub rosa\" barter transaction. The latter was cause for disbarment.\n\nThe notaries (\"tabelliones\") appeared in the late Roman Empire. Like their modern-day descendants, the civil law notaries, they were responsible for drafting wills, conveyances, and contracts. They were ubiquitous and most villages had one. In Roman times, notaries were widely considered to be inferior to advocates and jury consults.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the onset of the Early Middle Ages, the legal profession of Western Europe collapsed. As James Brundage has explained: \"[by 1140], no one in Western Europe could properly be described as a professional lawyer or a professional canonist in anything like the modern sense of the term 'professional.' \" However, from 1150 onward, a small but increasing number of men became experts in canon law but only in furtherance of other occupational goals, such as serving the Roman Catholic Church as priests. From 1190 to 1230, however, there was a crucial shift in which some men began to practice canon law as a lifelong profession in itself.\n\nThe legal profession's return was marked by the renewed efforts of church and state to regulate it. In 1231 two French councils mandated that lawyers had to swear an oath of admission before practicing before the bishop's courts in their regions, and a similar oath was promulgated by the papal legate in London in 1237. During the same decade, the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire Frederick II, the king of the Kingdom of Sicily, imposed a similar oath in his civil courts. By 1250 the nucleus of a new legal profession had clearly formed. The new trend towards professionalization culminated in a controversial proposal at the Second Council of Lyon in 1275 that \"all\" ecclesiastical courts should require an oath of admission. Although not adopted by the council, it was highly influential in many such courts throughout Europe. The civil courts in England also joined the trend towards professionalization; in 1275 a statute was enacted that prescribed punishment for professional lawyers guilty of deceit, and in 1280 the mayor's court of the city of London promulgated regulations concerning admission procedures, including the administering of an oath. And in 1345, the French crown promulgated a royal ordinance which set forth 24 rules governing advocates, of which 12 were integrated into the oath to be taken by them.\n\nThe French medieval oaths were widely influential and of enduring importance; for example, they directly influenced the structure of the advocates' oath adopted by the Canton of Geneva in 1816. In turn, the 1816 Geneva oath served as the inspiration for the attorney's oath drafted by David Dudley Field as Section 511 of the proposed New York Code of Civil Procedure of 1848, which was the first attempt in the United States at a comprehensive statement of a lawyer's professional duties.\n\nGenerally speaking, the modern practice is for lawyers to avoid use of any title, although formal practice varies across the world.\n\nHistorically lawyers in most European countries were addressed with the title of doctor, and countries outside of Europe have generally followed the practice of the European country which had policy influence through colonization. The first university degrees, starting with the law school of the University of Bologna (or glossators) in the 11th century, were all law degrees and doctorates. Degrees in other fields did not start until the 13th century, but the doctor continued to be the only degree offered at many of the old universities until the 20th century. Therefore, in many of the southern European countries, including Portugal and Italy, lawyers have traditionally been addressed as “doctor,” a practice, which was transferred to many countries in South America and Macau. The term \"doctor\" has since fallen into disuse, although it is still a legal title in Italy and in use in many countries outside of Europe.\n\nIn French- (France, Quebec, Belgium, Luxembourg) and Dutch-speaking countries (Netherlands, Belgium), legal professionals are addressed as \"Maître ...\", abbreviated to \"M ...\" (in French) or \"Meester ...\", abbreviated to \"mr. ...\" (in Dutch).\n\nThe title of doctor has never been used to address lawyers in England or other common law countries (with the exception of the United States). This is because until 1846 lawyers in England were not required to have a university degree and were trained by other attorneys by apprenticeship or in the Inns of Court. Since law degrees started to become a requirement for lawyers in England, the degree awarded has been the undergraduate LL.B. In South Africa holders of a law degree who have completed a year of pupillage and have been admitted to the bar may use the title \"Advocate\", abbreviated to \"Adv\" in written correspondence. Likewise, Italian law graduates who have qualified for the bar use the title \"Avvocato\", abbreviated in \"Avv.\"\n\nEven though most lawyers in the United States do not use any titles, the law degree in that country is the Juris Doctor, a professional doctorate degree, and some J.D. holders in the United States use the title of \"Doctor\" in professional and academic situations.\n\nIn countries where holders of the first law degree traditionally use the title of doctor (e.g. Peru, Brazil, Macau, Portugal, Argentina), J.D. holders who are attorneys will often use the title of doctor as well. It is common for English-language male lawyers to use the honorific suffix \"Esq.\" (for \"Esquire\"). In the United States the style is also used by female lawyers.\n\nIn many Asian countries, holders of the Juris Doctor degree are also called \"博士\" (doctor).\n\nIn the Philippines and Filipino communities overseas, lawyers who are either Filipino or naturalized-citizen expatriates at work there, especially those who also profess other jobs at the same time, are addressed and introduced as either \"Attorney\" or \"Counselor\" (especially in courts), rather than \"Sir/Madam\" in speech or \"Mr./Mrs./Ms.\" (\"G./Gng./Bb.\" in Filipino) before surnames. That word is used either in itself or before the given name or surname.\n"}
{"id": "32122604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32122604", "title": "Legal Aid Justice Center", "text": "Legal Aid Justice Center\n\nThe Legal Aid Justice Center is a Virginia based non-profit organization which provides legal services and advocacy to low income individuals. It was founded in 1967 when its Charlottesville office was opened. It has three other offices, in Falls Church (serving Northern Virginia), Petersburg, and Richmond.\n\nThe Legal Aid Justice Center grew out of the Charlottesville-Albemarle Legal Aid Society (CALAS), which was founded in 1967 by a group of Charlottesville attorneys in response to a perceived need for legal services for disadvantaged members of the community. CALAS received federal funding from the Office of Economic Opportunity in 1970, and local funding from the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County in 1982. CALAS also began bringing in private attorneys to provide legal services for community members in 1984.\n\nIn 1998, the board of CALAS assisted in the creation of Piedmont Legal Services, an organization that would exclusively provide services that were eligible for federal funding, but that would continue to share board members with CALAS. CALAS then turned its focus towards community needs that were ineligible for federal funding and began raising funds from private individuals and organizations.\n\nIn 2001, CALAS merged with Southside Virginia Legal Services in Petersburg, Virginia to form the Legal Aid Justice Center. In the same year, Piedmont Legal Services merged with other legal aid offices in Falls Church, Virginia and Richmond, Virginia to create the Central Virginia Legal Aid Society. The LAJC followed its sister organization and expanded to provide its non-federally funded services in these areas.\n\nThe Legal Aid Justice Center's programs focus primarily on legal services which are ineligible for federal funding, while the Central Virginia Legal Aid Society works exclusively on programs which are eligible for federal funds.\n\nThe Civil Advocacy Program serves low-income community members with a variety of non-criminal legal services. Civil Advocacy covers cases in consumer protection, employment discrimination, housing rights, mental health laws, and access to public benefits.\n\nThe JustChildren program was established in 1998 to address issues in Virginia's public education, juvenile justice, and foster care systems. The program uses a variety of methods, including direct representation of clients, community education and organizing, and legislative advocacy.\n\nThe Immigrant Advocacy Program again uses a combination of legislative advocacy, public education, and representation of individual clients to improve the condition of immigrant workers in Virginia. Since its establishment in 1998, Immigrant Advocacy has settled cases for over $2 million to immigrant laborers in unpaid wages.\n\nBuilding off of the model established by the JustChildren and Immigrant Advocacy Programs, the Elder Law Initiative uses advocacy, community education, and direct representation to improve the condition of Virginians in elder care facilities. The initiative works with individual facilities, organizes family councils, and informs individual residents and their families about their legal rights. The initiative also works with the University of Virginia Health System to conduct research in local facilities to identify issues and formulate ways to improve elder care in the region.\n\nThe Medical-Legal Partnership is a joint effort between the University of Virginia Children's Hospital, the University of Virginia Law School, and LAJC. The program provides legal counseling to families and consultation, training, and resources to health care providers in the region. The program is sponsored by a grant from the Jessie Ball duPont Fund.\n\nThe Virginia Institutionalized Persons Project was created in 2007 and focuses on specific areas of advocacy to improve conditions for inmates in Virginia's prison system. For example, in 2011 the project worked on a class action suit involving Virginia's parole laws. In 2009, the program began researching the healthcare within the prison system, and has since begun advocating for reforms.\n\nThe LAJC works with the University of Virginia Law School to create legal clinic programs that involve law students with its various service areas. Clinic topics include housing law, mental health, employment law, elderly advocacy, family resources, immigration law, and child advocacy.\n\nThe LAJC's major fundraiser is an annual film screening hosted by one of its major supporters, author John Grisham.\n\n"}
{"id": "1134298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134298", "title": "Legal risk", "text": "Legal risk\n\nBasel II classified legal risk as a subset of operational risk in 2003. This conception is based on a business perspective, recognizing that there are threats entailed in the business operating environment. The idea is that businesses do not operate in a vacuum and that, in the exploitation of opportunities and their engagement with other businesses, their activities tend to become subjects of legal liabilities and obligations.\n\nOne of the primary reasons why legal risk is associated with operational risk involves fraud since it is recognized as the most significant category of operational loss events and considered to be a legal issue as well. These, however, do not mean that legal risk is only confined to this conceptualization because it is defined in more than way. For instance, there are specific sets of legal risks that are defined by the European Union (EU) Law. In 2005, the European Central Bank declared that it will develop its own legal risk definition to help \"facilitate proper risk assessment and risk management, as well as ensure a consistent approach between EU credit institutions.\"\n\nThere is no standard definition, but there are at least two primary/secondary definition sets in circulation.\n\nMcormick, R. 2004\nLegal risk is the risk of loss to an institution which is primarily caused by:<br>\n(a) a defective transaction; or<br>\n(b) a claim (including a defense to a claim or a counterclaim) being made or some other event occurring which results in a liability for the institution or other loss (for example, as a result of the termination of a contract) or;<br>\n(c) failing to take appropriate measures to protect assets (for example, intellectual property) owned by the institution; or<br>\n(d) change in law.\n\nMcormick, R. 2004\nManagement of legal risk is not a precise science and subjective to the situation of the institution, and primarily caused by the lack of proper communication channel, undefined institutional objectives (such as the lack of policies and regulations), unclarified information flow between different personnel and department, lack of delegation of power to specify task on mitigation of risks.\n\nThe expenses of litigation of a company.\n\nLegal risk is the risk of financial or reputational loss that can result from lack of awareness or misunderstanding of, ambiguity in, or reckless indifference to, the way law and regulation apply to your business, its relationships, processes, products and services.\n\nThe cost and loss of income caused by legal uncertainty, multiplied by possibility of the individual event or legal environment as a whole.\n\nOne of the most obvious legal risks of doing business not mentioned in the above definitions is the risk of arrest and prosecution.\n\nAll definitions contain more detail.\n"}
{"id": "26248477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26248477", "title": "List of Italian lawyers", "text": "List of Italian lawyers\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable Italian lawyers:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48226476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48226476", "title": "Lists of murders", "text": "Lists of murders\n\nFollowing are lists of murders organized in various ways. Entries may appear in more than one section.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6575631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6575631", "title": "Marcus Einfeld", "text": "Marcus Einfeld\n\nMarcus Richard Einfeld (born 22 September 1938) is a former Australian judge who served on the Federal Court of Australia and was the inaugural president of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission. In retirement, he served two years in prison after being convicted of perjury and perverting the course of justice. \n\nEinfeld studied law at the University of Sydney. His father Syd Einfeld was a federal MP. He was called to the bar in 1962, and appointed Queen's Counsel (QC) in 1977. From 1972 to 1976, Einfeld was a director of the World Jewish Congress, based in London. After returning to Australia he became one of Sydney's most prominent barristers. Einfeld was appointed to the Federal Court in 1986, serving until 2001. In the same year he was made the inaugural president of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, serving until 1989. He was also the inaugural president of the Australian Paralympic Committee from 1990 to 1992.\n\nIn 2006, Einfeld was issued a A$77 speeding ticket for travelling 10 km/h (6.2 mph) over the limit. He appealed the ticket, claiming that he had not been driving. Journalists subsequently discovered that he had made a number of false statements under oath; the woman he had said was driving had in fact died several years earlier. Einfeld was arrested in 2007, and the following year pleaded guilty to perjury and perverting the course of justice. He was sentenced to three years' imprisonment. As a result of his actions, Einfeld was expelled from the legal profession and stripped of many of the honours he had previously accumulated, including his status as a Queen's Counsel, appointment of the Order of Australia, and his status as a National Living Treasure.\n\nEinfeld was born in Sydney, and was named after his paternal grandfather who had died a year earlier. He has a sister. His parents were the Labor Party politician Syd Einfeld and his wife Billie Rose (née Appelboom), who married in June 1934. His father served in both Federal Parliament and the Parliament of New South Wales. Einfeld's paternal grandfather was Rev. Marcus Einfeld (1874-1937), who came to Australia in 1909 (becoming the \"chazan\" and the Second Minister of the Great Synagogue) by way of London, England, to which he had immigrated from Jarosław in Galicia with his wife Deborah (née Gabel; d. 1957).\n\nEinfeld attended Sydney Boys High School from 1951 to 1955. He then obtained his Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Sydney in 1962. At some point, Einfeld began claiming that he held doctorates from both \"Century University\" and \"Pacific Western University\"; both are U.S.-based diploma mills without any accreditation as law schools. Those qualifications were referred to by Attorney-General Lionel Bowen when Einfeld was added to the Federal Court in 1987, and were listed in his \"Who's Who in Australia\" entry until 2007. His updated \"Who's Who\" entry, which was published after he had been arrested and charged with perjury, also corrected his year of birth (previously listed as 1939) and removed a claim that he had once been a director of the multinational firm Marks & Spencer in the 1970s.\n\nEinfeld has four children, two from each of two marriages. He married his first wife Yetta, a teacher, in 1963 and that had two children before they divorced in 1977. He married his second wife Anne, an attorney, in 1982 and they had two children before they divorced in 1996.\n\nEinfeld became a barrister in 1962. He was appointed a Queen's Counsel (QC) in 1977, aged 39. He represented High Court Justice Lionel Murphy in his legal challenge to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry which had been established to examine whether Murphy had perverted the course of justice; the inquiry was suspended when Murphy became terminally ill.\n\nEinfeld was appointed to the Federal Court in 1986. Einfeld was also an additional Justice of the Australian Capital Territory. He retired as a judge in April 2001. Einfeld was the founding president of the Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission. He was appointed to a seven-year term in December 1986, but resigned after three years citing an inability to combine the role with his judicial duties. In 1987 he led the Commission's enquiry into the living conditions of Aborigines in the border area of New South Wales and Queensland. An Aboriginal elder praised his work with indigenous communities when he was Human Rights Commissioner.\n\nEinfeld has served as Austcare's \"Ambassador for Refugees\", and as a UNICEF \"Ambassador for Children\". In 1997, he was named by the National Trust of Australia as an Australian Living Treasure, one of up to 100 living people selected by popular vote for having made outstanding contributions to Australian society. In 2002 he was granted the United Nations Peace Award. He has also served as National Vice President of the International Commission of Jurists (Australian Section). In 2002, he was presented a United Nations Association of Australia Founder's Award for his contribution to justice and human rights. He served as Chairman of Legal Resources International Inc., a non-government organisation funded by lawyers and the World Bank and Commonwealth Secretariat, dedicated to advising developing countries on establishing proper systems for democracy and justice.\n\nHe was made an Officer in the Order of Australia for services to international affairs and the protection of human rights in 1998. He was also the inaugural President of the Australian Paralympic Federation. \n\nEinfeld has served as an executive member of the New South Wales Jewish Board of Deputies and as a Councillor on the Executive Council of Australian Jewry. He also started and served as the first chairman of the Australian Campaign for the Rescue of Soviet Jewry, following his earlier establishment of the London-based National Campaign for Soviet Jewry of the United Kingdom and Ireland. Einfeld has been a spokesperson for Israeli and Jewish causes, and has contributed to public debate on Palestine, the media, the United Nations, universities, and other institutions. In 1997 President of the Palestinian National Authority Yassar Arafat chose him to assist in overhauling the Palestinian Authority's legal system. He was an invited speaker at United Israel Appeal (UIA) functions in Britain, the United States, Europe, Canada, and Australia. He is patron of the Australian Association of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and Descendants and of the Sydney Jewish Museum.\n\nIn a March 2006 address on the war on terror and civil liberties at the University of Western Sydney, he stated that Western powers, including Australia, had supported terrorist regimes financially, and that new sedition laws showed that Australia was \"leaning towards an autocratic framework\".\n\nEinfeld was the President of Australian Legal Resources International, a non-profit independent group of lawyers that supported democracy, human rights, and the rule of law in developing countries. In August 2006, this organisation collapsed, leaving creditors, including AusAID, the Australian Taxation Office, and St.George Bank \"thousands of dollars out of pocket.\"\n\nOn 7 August 2006, Einfeld contested a 77 speeding ticket. His car had been caught by a speed camera, traveling at 60km/h in a 50km/h zone (10 km/h (6.2 mph) over the speed limit) in the Sydney suburb of Mosman on 8 January 2006. The BBC noted: \"the judge was only 6 mph over the limit, which scarcely made him a boy racer.\"\n\nHe contested the ticket in Downing Centre Local Court by claiming he had on that day lent his car to an old friend, Professor Teresa Brennan, who was visiting from the United States. By making his claim Einfeld was avoiding a A$75 fine, and avoiding losing three of his four remaining demerit points. He gave evidence under oath in the Local Court, and signed a statutory declaration to that effect, and the magistrate dismissed the charge as \"not proved.\" However, a junior reporter for the Sydney daily tabloid \"The Daily Telegraph\" filed a brief story which caught the attention of assistant editor Michael Beach, who discovered that Brennan had died in the United States three years before Einfeld claimed she had been driving his car, and on Beach's instruction the reporter called Einfeld to obtain his reaction. This was the basis for Einfeld's later conviction for knowingly making a false statement under oath.\n\nWhen challenged by the journalist concerning Brennan's death, Einfeld claimed that he had lent his car on that day to a different Terese or Therese Brennan, who he claimed also lived in the US, and who had also died after returning to the US. On 10 August 2006 a police investigation commenced into whether Einfeld had committed perjury in giving his evidence. On 23 August 2006, Einfeld produced a detailed 20-page statement describing the fictitious second Teresa Brennan and his supposed dealings with her. This was the basis for his conviction for attempting to pervert the course of justice. \n\nMatters took an unusual turn when on 10 August 2006 Angela Liati, a 55-year-old Sydney woman unknown to Einfeld but who wanted to meet him, came forward and claimed that she had met Einfeld and had driven in his car with \"Theahresa Brennan\" (whom she had met on a meditation retreat) on a shopping expedition on the day in question. Liati said \"\"He has given his life to good causes and has been a brilliant judge ... a brilliant man ... and he deserves all the respect a country will give him\". Liati represented herself during an eight-day District Court jury trial and claimed that she was only endeavouring to make contact with Einfeld through her admission. However, she was found guilty on 12 February 2009 of perverting the course of justice and was subsequently sentenced to 200 hours' community service; later changed to a 12-month good behaviour bond.\n\nOn 29 March 2007, Einfeld was arrested by the New South Wales Police. He was initially charged by the Director of Public Prosecutions (New South Wales) with 13 offences, including perjury, perverting the course of justice, and making and using false statutory declarations. In theory, the charges called for a total of 154 years in jail.\n\nEinfeld's committal hearing was held in December 2007. The prosecution suggested the reason he lied under oath was that, had he gained the demerit points for the speeding offence, he would have been close to losing his licence. However, Einfeld denied he was aware his points were so high. One charge (hindering an investigation) was dropped. Einfeld was committed to stand trial on charges of perjury, perverting the course of justice, and traffic offences.\n\nOn 19 October 2008 the Court of Criminal Appeal dismissed another five of the charges against Einfeld, leaving only two. \n\nOn 31 October 2008, Einfeld pleaded guilty to the two remaining charges -- to perjury, and to perverting the course of justice -- just before his trial was to commence. It was also revealed that he had been battling prostate cancer for several months. The pre-sentence report to the court stated that Einfeld accepted responsibility for his actions. The head of the NSW Fraud Squad and commander of the Strike Force said its two-and-a-half year investigation investigation of the matter was \"very lengthy, very protracted, very intricate\". After his speeding fine case came to the attention of the Australian media, Einfeld was the subject of media reports alleging various other improprieties, including padding his curriculum vitae, purchasing doctorates from US diploma mills, and plagiarism.\n\nOn 20 March 2009, the 70-year-old retired judge Einfeld was sentenced to the maximum three years in prison for knowingly making a false statement under oath and for attempting to pervert the course of justice, with a non-parole period of two years. Supreme Court Justice Bruce James found Einfeld had committed \"deliberate, premeditated perjury\" that was \"part of planned criminal activity\". He served two years, and was released on parole on 19 March 2011.\n\nEinfeld said \"I'm desperately sorry for what I did. I'm sorry to my family, my elderly mother and my children. I'm sorry to the public at large... I lied. I can't say it any simpler than that. I told a lie, which was a disgraceful thing to do and for which I have been paying ever since.\" When Einfeld was asked if he was a dishonest man, he said: \"No, I'm not dishonest, no... I don't think I'm the slightest bit dishonest. I just made a mistake.\"\n\nOn 5 November 2008, the President of the New South Wales Bar Association applied to the New South Wales Court of Appeal to withdraw Einfeld's commission as Queen's Counsel, on the basis that his conduct had brought shame upon the legal profession as well as on himself. On 26 November, Einfeld's commission as a Queen's Counsel was revoked. His membership of the Order of Australia was rescinded in April 2009.\n\nNSW Law Society president Joe Catanzariti said that the three-year sentence for the former judge demonstrated that \"the legal profession did not protect its own\", but that it was tragic to see Einfeld's reputation ruined because \"the sad thing in all of this is you do have a great man who has done great works, and ... the substantive thing that started it is so trivial.\" Reacting to a call to strip Einfeld of his pension, Chief Justice of New South Wales Jim Spigelman wrote in an April 2009 letter to NSW Attorney General John Hatzistergos that pensions should be safe when judges were already retired, they were a deferred part of their salary, criminal law was sufficient punishment, and that it would be even more unusual if the offence \"bears no relationship\" to the judge's former duties. Spigelman continued that then-federal Attorney General Robert McClelland and state attorneys-general should \"impose a cooling off period on themselves\" for reacting to vehement short-term ad hoc media campaigns.\" \n\nSydney barrister and author Charles Waterstreet observed: \"at the time ... Einfeld wrote a false name for the driver ... at the heart of the sorry case ... the maximum, I repeat, the maximum fine for making a false declaration of that nature was $1,000.\" Former Australian Minister for Home Affairs, the Environment, and Arts Barry Cohen noted that: \"many journalists ... feel it is beholden upon them to mention that a person is Jewish, particularly if they have been naughty... He received three years in custody... By comparison ... a young lady living in Canberra got four years for killing her boyfriend. Shortly after Marcus Einfeld was sentenced, Stephen Linnell, one of the top advisers to Victoria police commissioner Christine Nixon, pleaded guilty to three counts of perjury and disclosing confidential information of the Office of Police Integrity. He received an eight-month suspended sentence and a $5,000 fine. The glaring difference between these crimes and the punishments incurred is extraordinary.\"\n\nOn 23 July 2009, the New South Wales Court of Appeal ordered that Einfeld's name be removed from the roll of lawyers. On 28 August 2009, the Court of Appeal delivered its reasons for making those declarations and orders, finding proven allegations that, in addition to the 2006 statutory declaration in respect of which he had been convicted, Einfeld had also sworn a series of statutory declarations in 1999, 2003, and 2004 falsely nominating other persons as the drivers of his car who he knew had not been driving the car so as to avoid traffic infringements. Einfeld agreed not to apply for re-admission. The court also considered the circumstances in which Einfeld had produced the 20-page statement describing the fictitious Teresa Brennan, and found that:\n\nThis statement reflects a studied, careful and premeditated attempt through a series of direct lies to influence the outcome of the administration of justice. It involves not a passing mistake, not an unfortunate and apparently uncharacteristic lapse but a studied and deliberate attempt to avoid the consequences of his actions and to deflect and pervert the course of justice. It may well be that the course of justice was in relation to a minor matter, standing alone. That, however, is not the point... All these facts ... when taken as a whole reflect deeply on the character of the defendant. Some of his falsehoods were committed at a time when he held high judicial office in the administration of justice in this country. Some were committed when he held the position as a practitioner... These matters, having taken place over a period of some seven years ... reveal a clear unfitness to remain on the Roll of Local Lawyers.\n\nIn 2011, Einfeld was devoting his time to community works, including working on Australian prison reform. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1282153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282153", "title": "Ministry of Justice of Cameroon", "text": "Ministry of Justice of Cameroon\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Cameroon is the Department responsible for administering the Cameroon justice system. As of May 2004, the Minister of State for Justice was Amadou Ali. The legal system in the Cameroon is complex with a constitution developed in 1972 and revised in 1996 as well as elements of the Code Napoleon, Common Law and customary law. In early 2005, the Ministry of Justice became responsible for administering the prison system due to unrest in the prisons. The Ministry of Justice also has a shared responsibility for administering human rights in the Cameroon. There have been serious allegations about use of torture by police and military officials in the Cameroon.\n\nThe constitution of the Cameroon provides that the Supreme Court of the Cameroon is the highest court existing in the country. In addition, the country has appeal courts, circuit courts and magistrates courts. The Supreme Court is located in Yaoundé as is the Cameroon High Court of Justice consisting of nine titular judges and six surrogate judges. The other courts are located throughout the country.\n\nThe constitution provides for a Constitutional Council responsible for constitutional law but this body has not yet been established. In lieu of this Council, the Supreme Court carries out its duty. Cameroon claims that the judiciary is independent from the executive and the legislature. However, the US State Department claims that the judiciary is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and that the Supreme Court can only consider a constitutional matter when referred to it by the President of Cameroon. The Supreme Court is responsible for adjudicating disputes between the president and the National Assembly.\n\nThe President of the Cameroon is responsible for appointing judges and also has the power to dismiss them. The Higher Judicial Council of Cameroon advises him on the nomination of judges and magistrates and has responsibility for judicial discipline.\n\nThe Parliamentary Court of Justice is responsible for judging acts by the President in cases where he or she has been accused of high treason. This Court also has responsibility for judging acts by the Prime Minister of the Cameroon, other members of the Government and other senior officials in cases relevant to state security.\n\nPrior to independence, jurisdiction over Cameroon was shared between the United Kingdom and France under a League of Nations mandate issued in 1919. The northern part of the British area became part of Nigeria while the Christian southern part joined with the French area. As a consequence, the country inherited a dual legal system including parts of the Code Napoleon and the common law. However, on 12 July 2005 the National Assembly (Assemblé Nationale) approved a law to harmonize the country's criminal procedure code.\n\nIn addition, traditional courts still play a significant role in domestic, property and probate. The court system honours tribal laws and customs when these do not conflict with national laws.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice became responsible for administering the prison system at the beginning of 2005 taking over responsibility from the Ministry of Territorial Administration of Cameroon. This follows disturbances caused by overcrowding of prisons and long stays in detention without charges of prisons.\n\nThere were 15,903 people in the prison system as of 1997 representing 115 per 100,000 population. However, the population of the prisons has grown rapidly in recent years. The New Bell prison in Douala was meant to hold 800 inmates but holds 3,100. The International Centre for Prison Studies estimates that Cameroon has the second highest occupancy rate in the world after Barbados with approximately half awaiting trial.\n\nThe Government has built two new prisons but has not provided enough staff resulting in the establishment of \"anti-gangs\" of \ninmates to preserve order.\n\nThe preamble of the constitution adopted in 1996 incorporates parts of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. The Ministry of Justice shares responsibility for administering human rights with the Ministry of Territorial Administration.\n\nA person who considers that their rights may have been violated may take their case either to the statutory courts or to the traditional courts. They may also petition the National Committee on Human Rights and Freedoms established in 1990. They may also seek compensation through the courts. If a person is acquitted, discharged or has been wrongfully held in custody, they are not entitled to compensation unless they can prove that the judge was wrong or the system did not function properly.\n\nThe United Nations Commission on Human Rights held hearings in 2003 into allegations of torture by the police and the military. The major area of concern was the prison network although it has been acknowledged that Cameroon had made some progress in improving its human rights performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4851842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4851842", "title": "Miscarriages of Justice Organisation", "text": "Miscarriages of Justice Organisation\n\nThe Miscarriage of Justice Organization (MOJO) is a charity dedicated to human rights and to changing the criminal justice system in order to reduce the number of miscarriages of criminal justice and increase the level of professional after-care for victims.\n\nAfter his conviction was overturned and his incarceration ended, Patrick Hill, one of the so-called Birmingham Six, set out to assist people who claim to have been wrongfully convicted. The Miscarriage of Justice Organisation is a voluntary sector non profit making organisation and a registered charity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1621705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621705", "title": "National Ambient Air Quality Standards", "text": "National Ambient Air Quality Standards\n\nThe U.S. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS, pronounced \\'naks\\) are standards for harmful pollutants. Established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under authority of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), NAAQS is applied for outdoor air throughout the country. \n\nThe standards are listed in . Primary standards are designed to protect human health, with an adequate margin of safety, including sensitive populations such as children, the elderly, and individuals suffering from respiratory diseases. Secondary standards are designed to protect public welfare (including effects on soils, water, crops, vegetation, man-made materials, animals, wildlife, weather, visibility, and climate), damage to property, transportation hazards, economic values, and personal comfort and well-being from any known or anticipated adverse effects of a pollutant. A district meeting a given standard is known as an \"attainment area\" for that standard, and otherwise a \"non-attainment area\".\n\nEPA set NAAQS for six major pollutants listed as below. These six pollutants are also the criteria pollutants.\n\n\nThe EPA National Exposure Research Laboratory can designate a measurement device using an established technological basis as a Federal Reference Method (FRM) to certify that the device has undergone a testing and analysis protocol, and can be used to monitor NAAQS compliance. Devices based on new technologies can be designated as a Federal Equivalent Method (FEM). FEMs are based on different sampling and/or analyzing technologies than FRMs, but are required to provide the same decision making quality when making NAAQS attainment determinations. Approved new methods are formally announced through publication in the Federal Register. A complete list of FRMs and FEMs is available.\n\nAn air quality control region is an area, designated by the federal government, where communities share a common air pollution problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "50485558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50485558", "title": "PEC 215", "text": "PEC 215\n\nPEC 215 is a proposed constitutional amendment to the constitution of Brazil.\n\nIt intends to delegate exclusively to Congress the duty of demarcation of indigenous and Quilombola territories, as well as the ratification of land already approved.\nIt would prohibit the expansion of already existing indigenous areas.\nOne of the proposal sections provides compensation of the Union to farmers who have properties absorbed by areas demarcated as indigenous land.\nThe Federal Constitution considers that indigenous lands belong to the Union and, therefore, there is no compensation to those who lose the ownership of the territory when the demarcation is recognized.\n\nCurrently, the government and Funai are responsible for demarcation. \nIn the future, indigenous people might only be able to claim an area, they have lived in and used by 1988.\nIt would give Congress the final say on new demarcations, a fact that displeases the indigenous leaders because of the strength of lobbyists. \nMuch of the protected area of indigenous territories are rain forests being important for water and climate.\nThere are farmers, who have filed an appeal.\nPEC 215 has been approved by a parliamentary committee.\nThe proposal is being processed for 15 years in parliament.\nMembers of the Chamber of Deputies of\nPT,\nPCdoB, PV, PSOL and REDE were against the bill.\n\nApproval of the bill depends on two rounds of voting in the plenary sessions of the Chamber of Deputies and the Federal Senate, with qualified quorum, that is, with the votes of at least 308 deputies and 49 senators. Parliamentarians opposed to the bill have said they will question its constitutionality in the Supreme Court.\nThe bill needs three fifths of the votes in senate to be approved. \nGreat land owners have a great impact in congress.\nProtests by indigenous people prevented a vote on PEC 215 in 2014.\n\nIndigenous people have protested against the bill in front of the Chamber of Deputies.\n"}
{"id": "31598288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31598288", "title": "Peer victimization", "text": "Peer victimization\n\nPeer victimization is the experience among children of being a target of the aggressive behavior of other children, who are not siblings and not necessarily age-mates.\n\nMass interest in the issue of peer victimization arose during the 1990s due to media coverage of student suicides, peer beatings, and school shootings, notably the tragedy in Columbine, Colorado. This led to an explosion of research attempting to assess bully-victim relationships and related players, what leads victims to experience negative outcomes and how widespread this problem was. Studies of peer victimization have also been conducted in the context of research investigating childhood relationships in general and how they are associated with school adjustment and achievement.\n\nResearch has proven the problematic nature of peer victimization, identifying many negative outcomes such as low self-esteem, low school engagement, school avoidance, lower school achievement, learned helplessness, and depression. Peer victimization is especially prevalent and damaging in middle school, as during this time children are defining themselves by creating self-schemas and establishing self-esteem, both which will impact their future adult life; for this reason, most of the research on peer victimization focuses on this age group. They are also more vulnerable to peer rejection because needs for belonging and intimacy may be especially strong during early adolescence, when children are working to solidify their peer groups.\n\nMuch of victimization research adopts a social psychology perspective, investigating how different types of peer victimization affect the individual and the different negative outcomes that occur. Some experimenters are adopting the term social victimization in order to acknowledge that victimization can take both verbal and nonverbal forms or be direct or indirect. They mostly focus on the types of victimization that can occur from multiple sources in a particular environment. Personality psychologists look at individual differences and effects in victims. They may also study individuals in a social context, determining which are more likely to be victimized, such as those who are socially withdrawn.\n\nWith the development of technology and the widespread access it gives to children and teenagers, peer victimization has become more prevalent through the Internet and cell phones than in years past. This form of victimization called cyberbullying has a potential for a much wider audience than traditional face-to-face victimization. It is also easier to hide from parents and teachers. Studies have found that because this form of victimization is done through the anonymity of the Internet or text messaging, bullies feel more comfortable being crueler to the victim. Without face-to-face communication, social standards become less important and behavior becomes less inhibited.\n\nOriginally, researchers focused on overt forms of victimization, which were categorized as either physical or verbal. Later, researchers such as Nicki R. Crick argued for the existence of a more covert form of victimization which she observed primarily among females that she called relational victimization, during which a child’s social relationships and social standing are attacked via methods such as peer exclusion. Today, victimization is largely operationally defined as either covert/relational victimization or overt/physical victimization, in which a child is threatened with or dealt corporeal damage.\n\nThe study of peer victimization draws from two major strands of research as identified by Seely, Tombari, Bennett & Dunkle (2009) called the \"bullying strand\" and the \"peer relationship strand.\" The victimization aspect of the \"bullying strand\" focuses on what leads victims to disengage from school and suffer from damaging negative outcomes while others adjust. The peer relationship strand is more quantitatively oriented, studying fundamental factors related to peer victimization and the negative outcomes, paying special attention to what factors mediate the relationship between them. Interest in peer victimization in psychological research has been fairly recent, and therefore it appears that most researchers have drawn from other areas of study and contemporary applied theories to the context of peer victimization.\n\nThe areas of the bullying strand that specifically pertain to peer victimization are studies of victimization prevalence, victims’ home environment, and effects of victimization in schools . Researchers started by determining the prevalence of peer victimization believing this would allow for the comparison of the problem over time, populations and after interventions. Prevalence research has been conducted in many different countries, cultures and classroom contexts. Studies utilize a variety of different methods such as self-report questionnaires, peer nominations, and teacher nominations have been used. Unfortunately, results show that in many contexts, the percentage of children that are victimized have fallen in a range between 5-90% Bullying strand research also focuses on the type of families that those who are victimized come from and what types of parenting styles they experienced Finally, a limited number of studies today focus on impacts of being bullied in a school setting and how it relates to achievement, truancy, and drop-out.\n\nStudies examining peer victimization have also been conducted in the context of a body of research interested in peer relationships and how they affect educational performance and adjustment; this is identified as the \"peer relationship strand.\" In the 1970s and 1980s, Steven Asher identified one form of a relationship—peer victimization—as a predictor of educational maladjustment. Later, a new perspective formed that considered peer victimization as a type of relationship existing on a continuum of relationship roles from healthy relations to detrimental ones instead of focusing on specific bully-victim relationships. Experimenters have also been interested in how early victimization effects individuals over time, focusing on school-related outcomes. Studies have largely worked to identify underlying factors that mediate negative outcomes.\n\nTo account for difference in the severity of negative outcomes as a result of peer victimization, researchers have utilized theories of implicit peer relationships. In order to understand the social world, individuals create implicit theories about their social interactions A major determinant of how a person handles social evaluation is the degree to which they ascribe entity theories of personality, believing it their attributes are stable and unalterable or incremental theories of personality, viewing attributes as pliable able to be augmented Those who adopt entity theories of personality often pursue performance oriented goals, seeking to accrue positive and avoid negative evaluations of their competence. Since they view their attributes as constant, it is vital that they are desirable in order for them to maintain a positive self-image. People who hold incremental theories of personality endeavor towards mastery-oriented goals, focusing on learning and cultivating competence since as they believe their attributes are malleable. Accordingly, they should feel less threatened by others’ evaluations of their competence. When thinking about self-evaluation, implicit theories should affect the degree to which children base their self appraisals on peer judgements, determining whether negative social interactions undermine their well-being.\n\nIn regards to behavioral reactions to victimization, research has identified two categories of characteristic responses. One contains externalizing behaviors such as aggression, disruptive, antisocial, and acting out behaviors (Achenbach, 1966). Another constitutes internalizing behaviors like inhibited, anxious, or heightened withdrawal.\n\nHawker and Boulton (2001) have used the rank theory of depression to explain the relationship between forms of victimization and types of maladjustment. According to the rank theory, internalizing problems such as depression are linked to a sense of powerlessness and of not belonging. Those who are physically victimized suffer from low resource-holding potential, which works in part to delineate social power in peer groups, while relational victimization directly affects children’s sense of belonging instead. In addition, according to social rank theory, jeopardization of one’s feeling of belonging stemming from relational victimization should play a greater part in perpetuating depression than that of resource-holding potential as in physical victimization. Therefore, depression should correlate more strongly with relational victimization as opposed to physical victimization.\n\nCurrently, researchers have become interested in the direction of the relationship between peer victimization and psychosocial adjustment. Many believe that the relation acts in a single direction: either peer victimization leads to maladjustment, or the relationship is reversed Some argue that the relationship is bidirectional and causal relationship. As studies on the topic have generally utilized, cross-sectional research designs, a definitive answer has not been reached.\n\nA study by Cole, Maxwell, Dukewich & Yosick examined how physical and relational Targeted Peer Victimization (TPV) victimization were related and measured their effects on different types of positive and negative cognitions. It was hypothesized that the link between peer victimization and depression was mediated by the creation of negative self-schemas. The study found gender differences in victimization, as Relational TPV was more common for girls and physical TPV was more common for boys. Also, children who were severely victimized exhibited less positive self-cognitions and more negative self-cognitions as well as more depressive symptoms. Yet when they controlled for the effects of relational TPV, the effects of physical TPV disappeared; it appears that relational TPV is more strongly associated with these outcomes and an investigation of physical TPV alone would not yield the same associations. Positive and negative self-cognitions were found to mediate the effect of relational victimization to symptoms of depression.\n\nAnother study by Sinclair (2011) examined the relationship between physical and relational peer victimization with negative and positive self-cognitions as well. It was found that both types of victimization led to increases in negative self-cognitions and decreases in positive self-cognitions, though the effects were more pronounced when a child experienced relational victimization. While girls were found experienced more relational victimization than boys did and boys experienced more physical victimization than girls did, the negative effects of victimization on self-cognitions was stronger in boys. This may be due to one of their findings that boys are less likely to seek adult social support than girls are. A study conducted by Schmidt and Bagwell used surveys to gauge the reactions of victimization and their self evaluated friendships. The study found that girls benefited significantly from having stronger, reliable peer friendships in coping with victimization, while boys did not. A study by Snyder and colleagues studied 266 Kindergarten and first grade children in cases of observed victimization at school. The researchers hypothesized that children with higher recorded cases of victimization during recess would rank higher in antisocial and depressive behavior—according to parents and teachers—than those who do not. Results showed that girls were not as affected by boys in terms of their change in teacher and parent rated behavior whereas boys were heavily influenced by the amount of peer victimization that day.\n\nResearch seems to show that there is drastic difference in the way both genders (at least in children) respond to victimization from peers. Current studies on children indicate that regardless of observational method (researcher direct observation or survey results given to the children) there is a marked effect of victimization, especially from peers. The magnitude of the effect on their behavior and mental health is heavily correlated with the situation of the victimization and the child’s social environment at the time.\n\nSchwartz et al. (1998) investigated the role of victimization in the development of children’s behavior problems, focusing on both internalizing and externalizing problems. They hypothesized that higher levels of victimization would lead to increased level of behavioral problems. Child behavior was reported by teachers and parents, measured using the Child Behavior Checklist, and peer victimization was measured using peer nomination. Indeed, they found that peer victimization in middle childhood was associated with behavioral maladjustment on both a concurrent and prospective basis. Additionally, externalizing behaviors were more strongly associated with victimization than were internalizing behaviors.\n\nSeals & Young (2003) investigated relationships between bullying and victimization with gender, grade level, ethnicity, self-esteem, and depression. Results showed that victims reported lower levels of self-esteem than did bullies and nonbullies/nonvictims. Additionally, victims had the highest depression scores as compared to bullies and nonbullies/nonvictims.\n\nResearch progress has also been made into recent mediums of victimization and bullying, notably online victimization. A study conducted by Mitchell \"et al.\" in 2007 collected data from over 2000 adolescents through telephone interviews. The most surprising finding was that those who reported being subject to online victimization in the past year are 96% likely to also report being subject to physical (offline) victimization. Another study conducted with over 3000 youth in the 5th, 8th and 11th grades using surveys concluded that Internet victimization shares common causal pathways with physical and verbal victimization.\n\nAn interest in aspects of bullying sprouted in the 1990s due to media coverage of student suicides, peer beatings, and school shootings. Yet such negative outcomes are rare.\n\nOne of the most well-known cases concerning the effects of peer victimization is the Columbine High School massacre of 1999 in Columbine, Colorado, United States. The perpetrators of this incident, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, murdered 12 students and 1 teacher and also injured 21 other students before committing suicide. After the tragedy, details emerged showing that Harris and Klebold had been bullied for years by classmates, with little to no intervention by school officials. Though such events are not frequent, they do alarming damage.\n\nThere has been a recent surge in the number of incidents regarding peer victimization and homosexuality. Specifically, the news has recently highlighted many cases of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) students who have committed suicide in response to peer victimization. One such incident is the case of 18-year-old Tyler Clementi, a Rutgers University student who was secretly videotaped by his roommate, Dharun Ravi, having sexual intercourse with another man. Ravi and another hallmate also streamed the video of the sexual encounter online. After finding out about this, Clementi jumped off of the George Washington Bridge to his death. Reports claim that Clementi had filed a complaint about his roommate having previously violating his privacy in the same manner, but no action had been taken to replace Clementi’s roommate.\n\nResearch demonstrates that lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB) students are highly likely to be victimized. Over half of LGB participants were verbally abused when they were in high school, and 11% were physically assaulted in a study by D’Augelli et al. (2002). Negative outcomes such as mental health problems and poor school performance have been associated with high incidences of victimization of LGB students. Recently research in this area seems to be progressing from the investigation of the extent and effects of LGB victimization to the specific factors associated with victimization and negative outcomes.\n\nA study by Goodenow et al. (2006) was one of the first to examine which school-related factors were associated with lower rates of victimization and suicidality in this population. School related factors included the presence of LGB support groups and staff support as well as other school characteristics like student-to-teacher ratio. It was found that LGB support groups were associated with both low victimization and suicidality among LGB students. Results indicated that the existence of LGB support groups may have led to a decrease in suicidality through decreasing incidence of peer victimization as the association between LGB support groups and suicidality disappeared when victimization was controlled for. Yet as this study examined correlations, causality cannot be assumed. Student courts were associated with less victimization, and antibullying policies were associated with less suicidality, even when the effects of victimization and perceived support were taken into account. Lower levels of victimization and suicidality of LGB students was also associated with large school size and urban locale. These school-related factors have traditionally been associated with a generally safer school environment, yet it seems that factors that increase safety for the general population may not increase safety for LGB students.\n\nA study by Kosciw et al. (2009) investigated how school related factors, community factors (such as adult education and income level), and locational factors (on a national level) were associated with victimization of LGB students. Results showed that community factors were the most significantly related to victimization and many regional-level as well as school-related factors were not found to be significant once these factors were taken into account. Increased reports of victimization due to gender expression were found in communities with higher poverty levels compared to affluent communities. Youth from communities with higher as opposed to lower proportions of adults with college degrees also reported less victimization. In accordance with the Goodenow study, It was also found that youth from urban communities were less likely to be victimized than those from rural communities.\n\nThe results of these studies show a strong need for intervention programs, specifically in-school programs. Though most schools punish bullying through disciplinary action, the frequency of bullying and victimization remains high. Thus, newer, more effective strategies must be implemented. Such programs should not only focus on punishing the bully, but should also focus on the victim. Victims should be taught to use healthier coping strategies instead of internalizing and externalizing their feelings. One intervention program focuses on bullying prevention in positive behavior support (BP-PBS). BP-PBS is designed to, in a series of steps, teach students how to treat each other respectfully, as well as teach ways to minimize social reinforcement of bullying behaviors in order to improve the school atmosphere.\n\nRoss and Horner (2009) investigated the effectiveness of this program across three elementary schools in Oregon by focusing on 6 students. They collected baseline data for the frequency of bullying as well as victim and bystander responses and then implemented the program across these school for approximately 8–12 weeks. Results showed that the frequency of bullying behaviors was significantly reduced among these students and that there was also a significant increase in more appropriate responses from victims and bystanders. Thus, interventions like BP-PBS may be effective in alleviating the problem of bullying and victimization in schools. To really test this, such programs should be put into effect nationally. Effective counseling are also a necessary component of dealing with peer victimization in schools. The most important step to successful counseling is identifying the children who are being victimized. While physical victimization can be easily noticed, for example by the presence of bruises and scratches, relational victimization is harder to detect. It is difficult to realize what children are being ostracized or ridiculed, especially if the student doesn’t vocalize this treatment. Disciplining relational victimization is also a difficult task. Whereas physical victimization is usually punished with a school suspension, for example, it would seem ridiculous to respond to relational victimization with the same punishment. Because of such discrepancies, it is important to create and implement effective strategies for dealing with relational victimization.\n\nIn a study evaluating the effectiveness of this program, Bauer, Lozano, & Rivara (2007) found that the Olweus program had \"mixed positive effects\"; specifically, there was a 28% decrease in relational victimization and a 37% decrease in physical victimization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35017966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35017966", "title": "Personal radio service", "text": "Personal radio service\n\nA personal radio service is any system that allows individual to operate radio transmitters and receivers for personal purposes with minimal or no special license or individual authorization. Personal radio services exist around the world and typically use light-weight walkie talkie portable radios. The power output, antenna size, and technical characteristics of the equipment are set by regulations in each country. Many regions (for example, the European Union) have standardized personal radio service rules to allow travelers from one country to use their equipment in another country. Examples of standardized services include PMR446 and FM Citizens Band Radio (CB) in the EU and several other countries/regions. 26–27 MHz CB radio is the oldest personal radio service and is used in nearly every country worldwide, with many countries and regions copying the United States 40-channel frequency plan. In many countries, CB radio is less popular due to the availability of other personal radio services that offer shorter antennas, better protection from noise and interference.\n\nBecause radio spectrum allocation varies around the world, a personal radio service device may not be usable outside its original area of purchase. For example, US-specification Family Radio Service radios operate on frequencies that in Europe are allocated to fire and emergency services. Operation of a personal radio device that cause interference to other services may result in prosecution. Some personal radio service frequency plans are regionally accepted, for example, the European PMR446 system is available in many countries, and the American FRS/GMRS system's channel plans have been adopted by Canada, Mexico and some countries in South America.\n\nSpecific details vary between the different national services, but many personal radio services operate in the VHF or UHF part of the radio spectrum, using frequency modulation and a maximum power of only a few watts. Operation is on predetermined channels. Unlike commercial business, marine, aviation, or emergency services radio, all users in an area share access to the available channels, requiring cooperation for effective communications. Unlike amateur radio, experimentation with different types of apparatus, and modes of modulation is not permitted, and equipment must be factory-built and approved. Many of these services require non-removable antennas or place restrictions on antenna size, height or gain. The high-VHF band (137–174 MHz) and UHF bands (325, 350, 400–480, 900 MHz) are the most popular aside from the 25–28 MHz \"HF CB\" bands. There are notable exceptions to this, including the 78 MHz and 245 MHz Thai \"CB 78\" and \"CB 245\" VHF-FM bands, the 68–71 MHz Finnish band, the 30–31 MHz Swedish \"Hunting Radio\" band, and the 43 MHz Italian \"VHF CB\" bands. The lower frequency allocations (especially the 30/31 and 43 MHz bands) often exhibit propagation and communication range characteristics similar to 27 MHz CB radio. Higher frequencies (especially above 200 MHz) are almost exclusively line-of-sight.\n\nThese services are different from cellular mobile telephone systems in that no infrastructure (towers, base stations) is required; communications is point-to-point directly between users. However, this also means that communication range is usually limited to line-of-sight propagation, a few kilometres (miles) under the best of circumstances, and much less in heavily built up urban areas. Also unlike mobile telephones, operation is push-to-talk; a user must wait for the shared frequency to be clear before transmitting, and all stations on the frequency may hear the transmission. Since both stations are on the same frequency, the receiving station cannot interrupt the transmitter until it has finished. Generally only voice transmission is allowed under personal radio service regulations, although tone and digital selective calling features are allowed in some countries. Some services permit digital data transmission, either as part of digital \"text messaging\" and GPS location \"sharing\" with other nearby radios (such as FRS), or the services themselves involve digital voice and data transmissions (such as DPMR446/DMR446).\n\nIn the United States, the Family Radio Service was authorized starting in 1996. Initially, it used half-watt hand-held FM UHF radios with 14 fixed channels. For a time dual-standard FRS and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios were available, that could be operated without individual licensing on the FRS channels, but which required a license to operate on the GMRS frequencies at a power level above the FRS standard. In May 2017 the regulations were changed so that FRS service included operation at up to 2 watts on GMRS channels, and prohibiting the use of dual-standard radios in FRS service that would exceed the 2 watt limit.\n\nAmerican-standard FRS radios have been approved for use in Canada since April 2000. The revised technical standard RSS 210 has essentially the same technical requirements as in the United States. Since September 2004, low-power GMRS radios and dual-standard FRS/GMRS radios have also been approved for use in Canada, giving additional channels. In Canada, no license is required and no restrictions are imposed on the GMRS channels.\n\nSince tourists often bring their FRS radios with them, and since trade between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico is of great value to all three countries, the Mexican Secretary of Communication and Transportation has authorized use of the FRS frequencies and equipment similar to that in the US. However, dual-mode FRS/GMRS equipment is not approved in Mexico, so caution should be exercised in operating hybrid FRS/GMRS devices purchased elsewhere.\n\nDual-mode GMRS/FRS equipment is also approved in Brazil and most other South American countries. Portable radios are heavily used in private communications, mainly by security staff in nightclubs and malls, but also in private parking, maintenance, and delivery services.\n\nIn addition to the UHF FRS and GMRS allocation and the high-HF CB allocation, in 2000, the American FCC allocated five VHF channels to the Multi-Use Radio Service (MURS). Like CB, MURS frequencies may be used for business or personal/family communications. Two of these frequencies were re-allocated from the Business/Industrial Radio Pool (Business Radio Service). These two frequencies were often used illegally by businesses as they were/are part of the \"color dot\" frequencies that handheld \"on-site\" business radios come pre-programmed with. Channels 1–3 were not allocated as part of the \"color dot\" frequencies and therefore do not generally have \"grandfathered\" business users on them (see below).\n\n\nAll five channels now see significant use by businesses, including large-scale retail outlets such as Wal-Mart, as well as mobile-to-mobile users such as hunters, security, delivery and taxi/ridesharing users. Use of squelch systems such as CTCSS and DCS on the MURS frequencies is encouraged to facilitate frequency sharing. Voice and data transmissions are permitted on the MURS frequencies. AM and FM modes are permitted on the MURS frequencies for both data and voice transmission (see FCC rules Part 95.631). However, store-and-forward digital operations are not permitted and transmitters must not operate in continuous-carrier (constant transmit) mode. External antennas are permitted, transmitter output power is limited to 2 watts. MURS is often used for data transmissions as well as portable and mobile voice communications, due to the external high-gain antenna provision, MURS offers the possibility of greater range than FRS. As with CB, FRS and GMRS, there are reports of users using higher-than-legal power levels on the MURS frequencies.\n\nChannels 1–3 must use \"narrowband\" frequency modulation (2.5 kHz deviation). Channels 4 and 5 may use either \"wideband\" FM (5 kHz deviation) or \"narrowband\" FM. MURS falls under part 95 and was not mandated for narrow banding such as those of part 90 in the public service bands by January 2013.\n\nBecause previous business band licensees who have maintained their active license remain grandfathered with their existing operating privileges, it is possible to find repeaters or other operations not authorized by Part 95 taking place. These are not necessarily illegal. If legal, such operations may enjoy primary status on their licensed frequency and as such are legally protected from harmful interference by MURS users. SeeCFR 47, part 95.1317.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, the 77-channel (previously 40-channel) UHF CB citizen's band near 477 MHz is used for a similar purpose. In New Zealand hand-held transceivers are \"class licensed\" and require no individual registration. Repeaters may be used, but these require individual station licences. The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) also allocated a band near 434 MHz for low-powered devices with low potential for interference to other users of the band.\n\nIn Europe, PMR446 is a personal radio service with two sets of 16 channels and one set of 8 channels available for a total of 40 channels. The original PMR446 allocation for 16 channels from 446.00625 MHz to 446.19375 MHz with 12.5 kHz channel spacing steps has been complimented with two digital channel plans (sometimes called \"DMR446\" or \"DPMR446\"). Digital FDMA offers another 16 channels from 446.103125 MHz to 446.196875 MHz with 6.25 kHz channel spacing steps. 4-level FSK modulation at 3.6 kbit/s is used. Digital DMR Tier I TDMA PMR446 channels are also available, eight channels from 446.10625 MHz to 446.19375 MHz with 12.5 kHz channel spacing steps. 4-level FSK modulation at 3.6 kbit/s is used. All three of the PMR446 channel plans occupy the same European-harmonized 446.0 MHz to 446.2 MHz frequency band.\n\nOne cannot legally use the FRS radio in Europe or PMR446 in the U.S. The 446 MHz band is allocated to amateur radio in the United States. In Great Britain, FRS frequencies are used for fire brigade communications and this sometimes causes problems when FRS equipment is imported from the U.S. and used without awareness of the consequences by members of the public. A similar situation exists with the German Freenet VHF CB allocation, the American MURS VHF CB allocation, and the Australian/New Zealand UHF CB allocation at 476–477 MHz. Use of Australian UHF CB equipment in the United States would cause severe interference to public safety communications, especially in larger metropolitan areas.\n\nEuropean countries also have LPD devices operating in the 433 MHz band; these devices are restricted to 10 mW output power and are intended to provide an alternative to PMR446 over short distances. Additionally, most European countries allow use of the 26.965 – 27.405 MHz US FCC Citizen's Band Radio allocation (40 channels). Some countries allow more channels (for example, Germany has an extra 40-channel allocation from 26.565 to 27.955 MHz, making a total of 80 available CB channels) or other modes. Many countries allow the use of both AM and FM modulation, with some (including the UK) allowing the use of SSB as well.\n\nFinland has a 26-channel mid-band (68–72 MHz) VHF-FM allocation called \"RHA68\" consisting of \"common channels for hobby usage in general\". No license, examination or fee is required to operate in the RHA68 band. The channels may be referred to by their sequential number or by alphanumeric designation per Finnish law. Power limit is 5 watts for hand-portable stations and 25 watts for mobile stations on all of group A channels and on group E channels 15, 16 and 18–21. Base stations may only be used on group A channels with maximum transmitting power of 15 watts.\n\nChannel group A\nChannel group E\nGermany has a VHF-FM allocation called Freenet that allows a maximum of 500 mW of power on six channels in the 149 MHz band.\n\n\nThe Freenet allocation is a re-purposing of the old B-Netz mobile telephone service. It is similar in scope and purpose to the Multi-Use Radio Service (MURS) in the United States, and the \"Jagtradio\" (Hunting Radio) services in Norway and Sweden.\n\nItaly allows use of the European standardized 40 channel 26/27 MHz CB band, plus a 34 channel allocation from 26.875 MHz to 27.245 MHz, giving Italian HF CB a total of 49 channels between to two CB bands (Band I1: 26.965–27.405, Band I2: 26.875–27.245). In addition to this, Italy has a \"VHF CB\" allocation at 43 MHz, usually called \"Apparati a 43 MHz\" or \"CB 43 MHz\". Italy, like many other countries, suffers from extremely lax enforcement of radio communications laws, and \"freeband\" modified equipment covering wider frequency ranges as well as amplifiers are widely available and openly advertised by communications equipment vendors. \"Freebanding\" occurs with both the 27 MHz area (often as low as 25 MHz and as high as 30 MHz) and the 43 MHz area (as 43 MHz CB equipment is often modified to cover down to 34 MHz and up to 47 MHz, using 12.5 kHz steps). There is evidence of these frequencies being used outside of Italy for illegal \"CB-like\" operations.\n\nItalian 43 MHz \"VHF CB\" or \"43 MHz CB\" allocation. 24 channels, FM mode, 12.5 kHz channel spacing. Each channel has a \"recommended use\" associated with it. Portable handheld (walkie-talkie), in-vehicle mobile and base station transceivers are available for this band. Channels are numbered in straight sequence, however many transceivers marketed for this band also include a frequency display. Due to the low-VHF band frequency characteristics of this band, it is often used as an adjunct to, or replacement for, the traditional 26–27 MHz CB allocations.\n\n\nNorway has a Short distance radio service (called \"KDR444\" to distinguish it from similar services such as PMR446) with six UHF FM channels between 444.600 and 444.975 MHz. Some dual-mode KDR/PMR radios are sold but are only usable in Sweden and Norway. Norway has a 6 channel VHF FM Jaktradio (Hunting Radio) service, maximum power 5 watts. Because both Norway and Sweden have high-band VHF FM hunting allocations (see section on Sweden below), many hunting radios are marketed with both the 6 Nordic channels and 7 Swedish channels in one unit.\n\n\nSimilar to Norway, Sweden also has Jaktradio (Hunting Radio) allocations, 6 channels in the 155.400–155.525 MHz band and 40 channels in the 30–31 MHz band. In addition to these, the general purpose channel 156.000 MHz is available. 156.000 MHz is sometimes included as Marine VHF radio \"channel 0\" or \"M1\" (private) channel, allowing communication between portables and radios mounted in boats. Modulation is FM, maximal power 4 watts for 30–31 MHz and 5 watts for 155 MHz.\n\nThe 30/31 MHz band is sometimes referred to as \"PR31\" or \"Jakt 31 MHz\" to avoid confusion with the 155 MHz Jaktradio frequencies. Due to the proximity of this band in frequency to the 26–27 MHz CB band and the wide availability of modified CB or 10-meter amateur radio transceivers that cover up to 32 MHz, some operations on these channels involve the use of modified equipment.\n\nHandheld radios are available for these frequencies, with some models including both the 30/31 MHz band and the 155 MHz band.\n\nVHF-FM High Band 155 MHz Jaktradio:\n\n\nVHF-FM Low Band 31 MHz Jaktradio:\n\n\nA personal radio service similar to the American-style FRS in Hong Kong, Macau, and China is also approved by respective organizations for legal \"license-free\" operation, with the name of \"Public Radio Service\". However, different UHF frequencies with 20 allocated channels near 409 MHz are used. Sometimes this is also being referred as \"Citizen Band\" or CB in China, but not to be confused with the Citizens Band radio within the 27 MHz band. FRS/GMRS or PMR446 radios are not approved for use in China. \n\nThere is big number of FRS band radios, being used in China \"illegally\", started before the Chinese government opened the 409 MHz band to public. Legal action against such usage is rare, because of the low power and short range of FRS radios.\n\nList of China Public Radio Service Channels:\nThe Bangladesh Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (BTRC) allows for use of the 26–27 MHz Citizen's Band (CB) allocation from 26.965 to 27.405 MHz (standard 40-channel allocation used in most of the world for CB). BTRC also permits usage of \"Short Business Radio\" (SBR) in the 245.000 to 246.000 MHz band. This is the same 245 MHz CB allocation as Thailand and uses the same channel plan (80 channels, 12.5 kHz steps). The BTRC considers both the 26–27 MHz CB and 245–246 MHz SBR allocations to be shared resources and all users must share the channels with other users of these two bands.\n\nIndia has a 13-channel UHF-FM service known as \"Short Range Radio\" or \"SRR\" that operates in the 350.225–350.400 MHz band with a maximal output power of 2 watts. FM mode is used with 12.5 kHz channel spacing.\n\n\nIn August 2005, India deregulated the 26.957–27.283 MHz band for license-free CB radio usage with a maximum power output of 5 watts. The channel plan follows channels 1–27 from the standard 40 channel CB plan originally adopted by the United States (and most other countries worldwide). Channel 1 is 26.965 and channel 27 is 27.275 MHz. Use of frequencies below 26.965 or above 27.275 is not permitted in India. Multi-norm mobile CB radios are now being shipped with the 27 channel India CB frequency plan programmed in them.\n\nTwo frequency bands available: VHF-FM (142–143 MHz VHF CB) and UHF-FM (476–477 MHz UHF CB).\n\nIndonesia allows 40 channels from 476.425 MHz to 477.400 MHz at 25 kHz channel spacing. It is the same channel plan as the original 40 channel Australia/New Zealand UHF CB allocation. Indonesia also has a 60-channel VHF-FM service available from 142.050 MHz to 143.525 MHz (channels spaced every 25 kHz). Indonesia also permits usage of the standardized 26.965–27.405 MHz HF CB band with AM/SSB modes allowed.\n\nThe new frequency allocations (142 & 476 MHz) were regulated in a decision by the Director General of Posts and Telecommunications in decreee Number 92 Year 1994 on Implementing Regulation of the Inter-Citizens Radio Communications.\n\nJapan has several services in the UHF bands:\n\nJapan's (\"SLPR: Specified Low Power Radio\") service is limited to 10 mW in the 420, 421, and 422 MHz bands. It is called \"Tokutei Shoudenryoku Musen\".\n\n\n348 MHz UHF-FM service for Business use. Radios must be equipped with a built-in control ROM for automatic digital callsign identification using 1200/4800 bit/s MSK.\n\n\n900 MHz UHF-FM \"Personal Radio\" service for Personal, Leisure and Family use. Radios must be equipped with a built-in control ROM for automatic digital callsign identification using 1200/4800 bit/s MSK.\n\n\nSouth Africa is in the process of conforming to ITC region 1 recommendations. They do allow 8 channels between 446.0 – 446.1 MHz band currently, this is the same as the European PMR446.\n\nThere are two HF AM/SSB CB bands available for use in South Africa, 27 MHz and 29 MHz. There are some radio transceivers sold that include both \"27 Megs\" and \"29 Megs\" however some only include one band or the other.\n\nSouth Africa also has a 23-channel allocation between 29.710 MHz and 29.985 MHz. This service commonly referred to as \"29 Megs\" or \"29 MHz CB\". Channels are 12.5 kHz apart. This service is shared between land mobile users, marine users, and civil defense/rural firefighting users. AM mode may be used on any channel, while SSB may only be used on specified channels 29.7475 MHz, 29.8225 MHz, 29.8475 MHz, 29.9475 MHz and 29.985 MHz. Maximum output power is 5 watts carrier power in AM mode and 12 watts PEP power in SSB mode. These frequencies are heavily used by the 4x4 and Land Rover communities as well as by safari companies. The 4-Wheel Drive Club of South Africa (4WDC) uses their own internal channel numbering scheme for these frequencies. Three of these channels (designated 1/A, 2/B and 3/C) are designated for use by marine operators. These frequencies offer excellent range over water (20 – 30 km or more depending on antenna installation) and are heavily used by ski boats and fishing clubs, often as an adjunct to the internationally allocated Marine VHF radio band.\n\nSouth Africa's use of 29 MHz for marine purposes is similar to Australia's use of 27 MHz for marine radio. Australia allows use of the standard 26.965–27.405 MHz AM/SSB 40 channel CB band for land mobile (and marine) communications plus 10 marine-only AM channels in the 27.68–27.98 MHz band. Many coast guard stations monitor 27 Meg channel 88 (27.880 MHz) in addition to VHF channel 16 (156.800 MHz) for distress, safety information and calling. Several 27 MHz marine transceivers sold in Australia are also available in South Africa (programmed for the South African 29 MHz frequencies). This allows for one transceiver to be sold in both Australia (27 MHz marine frequencies) and South Africa (29 MHz marine frequencies).\n\n\nSouth Africa allows use of nine 27 MHz CB frequencies between 27.185 MHz and 27.275 MHz (27 MHz CB channels 19–27). Maximal output power is 5 watts carrier power in AM mode and 12 watts PEP power in SSB mode. As with the 29 MHz allocation, each frequency is assigned to either AM only or SSB operation. Channels 19–22 (27.185–27.225 MHz) are designated for AM use and channels 23–27 (27.255–27.275 MHz) are designated for SSB use.\n\nUHF-FM 448.750–449.2625 MHz band allocation similar to the American FRS and European PMR446 services. 25 channel FM with 500 mW maximal power output. 12.5 kHz channel spacing with skips. As with FRS/GMRS and PMR446, the use of tone squelch systems such as CTCSS/DCS is encouraged. Like the PMR446, LPD433, Japan's 421–422 MHz SLPR service and KDR444 services, use of these frequencies in countries such as the United States is illegal without an amateur radio license as they fall within the 420–450 MHz 70 cm ham radio allocation.\n\n\nThe Philippines has a radio service for use of families and small businesses. This service is called SRRS or Short Range Radio Service. Repeaters are not permitted, and units are limited to 2.5 watts.\n\nThis service has been allocated 40 channels at 325 MHz:\nThailand has two 80 channel CB-style services, one in mid-band VHF 78 MHz band and another at high-band VHF 245 MHz band. Both services use FM mode only. Per Thai law, 78 MHz transceivers must have a yellow case. 245 MHz transceivers must have a red case. The HF (26 – 27 MHz band) CB service is not allowed in Thailand. 78 MHz takes the place of traditional 27 MHz CB for truckers, etc.\n\nThe 78 MHz CB allocation is primarily used by mobile and base stations, although handheld radios for 78 MHz are available. The lower frequency allows for longer communication range in rural and suburban areas compared to the 245 MHz service. 78 MHz is popular with trucking companies, buses, taxi companies and other transportation users, often in conjunction with 245 MHz. This service is commonly referred to as \"CB78\", \"VHF78\", \"CB 78MHz\" or simply \"78 MHz\". Frequency allocation is between 78.0000 and 78.9875 MHz. Channels are spaced 12.5 kHz apart for a total of 80 channels in straight numerical sequence (channel 1 is 78.0000 MHz, channel 80 is 78.9875 MHz). Units are allowed up to 10 watts PEP RF power. External high-gain antennas are permitted. Base station antennas are permitted and base stations are commonly found in this band. Use of selective calling and tone squelch systems such as DTMF, CTCSS and DCS are allowed. According to Thai law, transceivers operating on the 78 MHz band must have a yellow case.\n\nThe 245 MHz CB allocation is more popular than the 78 MHz service, especially in urban areas. This service is commonly referred to as \"CB245\", \"VHF245\" or \"VHF CB 245 MHz\". Frequency allocation is between 245.0000 and 245.9875 MHz. Channels are spaced 12.5 kHz apart for a total of 80 channels in straight numerical sequence (channel 1 is 245.0000 MHz, channel 80 is 245.9875 MHz). Units are allowed up to 10 watts PEP RF power. External high-gain antennas are permitted. Base station antennas are permitted. Besides personal use, the equipment is used by search and rescue organizations, businesses, security guards, taxi companies and delivery services. In urban areas, simplex repeaters, usually mounted on the roofs of high-rise buildings, are used to increase communication range. CTCSS and DCS are often used due to heavy channel congestion in urban areas. Operating rules are less restrictive than amateur radio service, with an initial license fee required. According to Thai law, transceivers operating on the 245 MHz band must have a red case. There are an estimated one million users of the 245 MHz VHF CB service, often in large cities.\n\nSome manufacturers in Taiwan have radios that carry both American FRS and GMRS frequencies, and have additional channels 1 to 99. Channels 1 to 14 are well-known, while channels 15 to 99 are less popular. While radios designed for the Taiwan market have FRS/GMRS frequencies as part of their channel plan, it is still technically illegal to use equipment designed for the Taiwan market in the United States.\n\nFRS (規範頻率), 14 channels, 12.5 kHz spacing:\n\n\nSince 3 February 2004, the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA) has allocated the 446.0–446.1 MHz frequency band for low-powered walkie-talkies on a non-interference, non-protected and shared-use basis. As these walkie-talkies are low-powered devices which do not potentially cause interference to other licensed radio services, it need not be licensed for use in Singapore. However, the device must be type approved by IDA for local sale.\nCitizens Band radio is a family of services available in different countries and with different operating rules, generally using channels in the 27 MHz part of the radio spectrum. 26–27 MHz occupies the \"boundary area\" between HF (3–30 MHz) and VHF (30–300 MHz). This means that CB signals provide local coverage similar to low-band VHF during times of low sunspot activity. However, during the peak of the sunspot cycle, CB frequencies exhibit skywave propagation just like the lower parts of HF do, making communication hundreds or even thousands of miles (km) away possible. While some operators seek out long distance \"DX\" contacts on CB frequencies and on frequencies above channel 40 and below channel 1 (a practice referred to as \"freebanding\" or \"outbanding\"), interference from distant stations will often make local communication extremely difficult or impossible during band openings. CB was, and still is, designed for short-distance (local) communications needs. US FCC law prohibits communicating with any station more than 250 km (155.3 miles) on CB frequencies.(150 mile rule deleted by FCC September -2017) Like many rules regarding the HF CB services, the distance prohibition is largely ignored and unenforced. Often as a result of channel overcrowding and interference, many HF CB users have turned to purchasing \"export\" or \"10-meter\" radios that operate in the legal CB band but also provide access to frequencies above and below the CB band. Other CB users purchase amplifiers to increase their output power and \"punch through\" interference caused by distant stations (or by local stations running amplifiers). This has created a tragedy of the commons situation in and near the HF CB spectrum (25–28 MHz). As more users purchase amplifiers and operate on out-of-band frequencies, more interference is produced, forcing others to acquire even more powerful equipment to punch through even more interference, and/or to acquire transceivers capable of accessing more frequencies so that a clear frequency may be found. Many CB users have moved to other personal radio services to avoid these issues.\n\nWhen first developed in the United States, CB operation required an individual license fee. After the surge in popularity in the mid-1970s, licensing was deprecated. Other countries provided legislation to allow use of similar frequencies and operating modes. The 26.965–27.405 MHz 40-channel American channel plan serves as the frequency plan for many other countries HF CB service, including Canada, Australia, Mexico, most of Central and South America and the European Union. FM may be used throughout Europe on the standard 40 channels – called the \"mid band\" or \"CEPT\" channels. Many countries also allow AM in addition to FM or AM/FM/SSB with various different power limits. European standardization allows a maximum of 4 watts FM power or 1 watt AM carrier power.\n\nOthers, such as Germany, Russia, and Brazil, allow more than 40 legal channels. Germany has an 80 channel allocation – the 40 CEPT/American channels plus 40 channels from 26.565 to 26.955 MHz in straight 10 kHz sequence. Germany only allows FM on channels 41–80. Brazil allows for 80 channels from 26.965 to 27.855 MHz with AM/SSB permitted. Brazil allows higher power levels than the USA and most of Europe. New Zealand has two 40-channel HF CB bands available, the NZ-specific \"NZ CB Band\" 26.330–26.770 MHz (40 channels, AM and SSB allowed) and the standardized \"mid band\" 26.965–27.405 MHz (40 channels, AM and SSB allowed) for a total of 80 HF CB channels.\n\nIn Russia, HF CB radio is extremely popular, especially with taxicab, trucking, delivery and general transportation users. Due to the sheer size of Russia and the remoteness of many Russian communities, CB radio is an important resource. Russian CB operators and clubs have installed several simplex repeaters on mountaintops or the roofs of high-rise apartment buildings to increase communication range of low-powered mobile CB radios. Some of these repeaters feature CTCSS/PL tone protection, remote control via DTMF, linking via Internet gateways, simulcasting via several repeaters at once, and cross-band repeat connections to the UHF PMR446 service. Cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg feature motorist emergency services that are directly accessible via a CB frequency monitored by police and other emergency services. Other services provided by cities in Russia include weather broadcasts and travel/traffic information and warnings via specific CB channels.\n\nDue to the rapid proliferation of \"open-banded\" export equipment (sold as \"10-meter\" or \"multi-norm\" radios) that cover wide frequency ranges, Russia allows for two overlapping sets of 3 bands of 40 channels, for a total of 240 channels. 26.515–26.955 MHz, 26.965–27.405 MHz and 27.415–27.855 MHz make up the first set. These are referred to as the \"European channels\" or the \"fives\" due to the frequency ending in 5. The second set, known as the \"Polish channels\" or the \"zeros\" is 26.510 – 26.950 MHz, 26.960–27.400 MHz and 27.410–27.850 MHz. Multi-norm radios sold in Europe and Asia designed for use in several different countries – with the end-user selecting the \"mode\" of the country they live in – now come with a \"RU\" (Russia) mode that opens the radio to full band coverage (usually 25.615–28.305 MHz or 25.615–30.105 MHz). It is important to note that only 26.515–27.855 / 26.510–27.850 MHz is legally permitted in Russia.\n\nEach channel is given an alphanumeric identifier, with the three bands being labeled B-C-D, then the channel number and the last digit of the frequency labeled \"E\" for the 5 and \"P\" for the 0. The final letter(s) indicate the mode (AM or FM). For example, 27.185 MHz AM (Channel 19 in the European/American frequency plan) would be designated \"C19EA\" or \"C19EAM\". 27.180 MHz FM (Channel 19 on the Polish assignment) would be designated \"C19PF\" or \"C19PFM\". The B-C-D (or \"grid\") designation comes from common export radio band labeling. Originally these radios would feature 5 bands labeled A-B-C-D-E, with coverage from 26.065 to 28.305 MHz, later these radios switched to a 6 band configuration A-B-D-C-E-F with coverage from 25.615 to 28.305 MHz, making 26.965–27.405 MHz band D instead of band C.\n\nOriginally, Russia (and most other Eastern European/CIS countries) used the zero frequency offset in line with the Polish frequency plan (channel 1 being 26.960 MHz). However, in the past 4–5 years, most Russians have switched to the standardized European or American \"fives\" offset (channel 1 being 26.965 MHz). Due to the use of both frequency plans, many radios sold in the Russian/Eastern European market come with a -5 kHz or +5 kHz switch to quickly change from one channel plan to the other.\n"}
{"id": "3694422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694422", "title": "Pettkus v Becker", "text": "Pettkus v Becker\n\nPettkus v Becker [1980] 2 S.C.R. 834 was a landmark family law decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. The Court established a new formulation of the constructive trust as a remedy for unjust enrichment based on the ideas of Professor Donovan Waters, and in particular the requirements for such constructive trust in a common law relationship separation. The \"Pettkus\" formulation of constructive trust was subsequently adopted elsewhere in the common law world.\n\nRosa Becker and Lothar Pettkus, two immigrants to Canada, met in 1955. They moved in together and lived as husband and wife, although they did not marry, and they had no children. Until 1960, Becker paid the rent and living expenses from her outside income and Pettkus deposited his income in a bank account in his name. In 1961, they bought a farm in Quebec. The money came from Pettkus' account and ownership (\"title\") was taken out in his name, as was the custom in those days.\n\nThey shared the farm labour and both worked very hard. They turned their farm into a profitable bee-keeping operation. Becker also earned some income which was used for household expenses and to repair the farmhouse. Their savings went back into the farm or the Pettkus bank account.\n\nIn 1971, with profits from the farm and more money from Pettkus' bank account, they purchased a property in Ontario and again registered it in his name. In 1972, Becker separated from Pettkus. He threw $3,000 on the floor and told her to take it, along with a car and forty beehives with bees.\n\nAt his request, she moved back in with him three months later. She returned with the car, deposited $1,900 in his account, and the forty bee-hives without the bees. Shortly thereafter, with these returned assets, joint savings and proceeds from the sale of the Quebec land, they purchased another Ontario farm in Pettkus' name. They now had two valuable pieces of land, and in 1974 they moved and built a house upon one of them. They lived off their income from their thriving bee-keeping business. In the fall of that year, she left him for good, taking the car and $2,600 in cash.\n\nShe also sued for a one-half interest in the properties, bee-keeping business and assets acquired through their joint efforts. Pettkus and Becker had lived together as husband and wife for almost twenty years. Under Ontario legislation at that time, a common law wife was not legally entitled to a share in any property owned by her husband. Therefore, any remedy for Becker would have to be based on the wholly equitable doctrine of constructive trust and principles of unjust enrichment.\n\nDickson J. set out three requirements for finding a constructive trust. There must be 1) an enrichment; 2) a corresponding deprivation; and 3) the absence of any juristic reason for the enrichment. In this case, Dickson found that the requirements were satisfied and held that Becker was entitled to half the assets. He held that:\n\"where one person, in a relationship tantamount to spousal, prejudices herself in the reasonable expectation of receiving an interest in property, and the other person in the relationship freely accepts benefits conferred by the first person in circumstances where he knows or ought to have known of that reasonable expectation, it would be unjust to allow the recipient of the benefit to retain it.\"\n\nAfter the ruling in Becker's favour, Pettkus avoided paying out the money owed. When Pettkus's assets were finally liquidated, Becker's lawyer took most of the share, and left her with nothing. In a tragic turn of events, Becker committed suicide on November 5, 1986. The suicide note accused the legal system of forcing her to do it.\nSeveral provinces subsequently amended their family relations legislation to include common law relationships as to the division of family assets. (Under the Canadian Constitution divorce is governed by federal statute, property by provincial statute.)\n\n\"Pettkus\" with its new version of the constructive trust was soon adopted in Australia. The High Court of Australia enunciated a similar rule in \"Muschinski v Dodds\" (1985) 160 CLR 583 and \"Baumgartner v Baumgartner\" (1987) 164 CLR 137, albeit with the caveat that the complaining party must not have been responsible for the breakdown of the relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37302456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37302456", "title": "Remote Skylights", "text": "Remote Skylights\n\nRemote Skylights are optical systems capable of providing natural light to unlit locations. An arrangement of parabolic reflectors and optical fiber cables, transport natural sunlight to areas that would otherwise be dark or be lit artificially.\n\nRemote skylights are composed chiefly of a solar collection dish, a \"heliotube\" and a distribution dish. The collection and distribution dishes are both parabolic reflectors. The collection dish is connected to a heliostat, a mechanism which tracks the transit of the sun across the sky, so as to maximize the intensity of light falling upon it. The heliotube is a fiber light tube, a bundle of optical fibers that channel the collected sunlight from the collection dish to the distribution dish. Unlike a typical skylight, the heliotube allows the two dishes to be in different places. \n\nRemote Skylights were invented by RAAD studio in order to provide natural illumination to the proposed Lowline underground park.\n\nRemote Skylights provide two key advantages over artificial illumination:\n\n"}
{"id": "23710006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23710006", "title": "Right of redemption", "text": "Right of redemption\n\nThe right of redemption, in the law of real property, is the right of a debtor whose real property has been foreclosed upon and sold to reclaim that property if they are able to come up with the money to repay the amount of the debt. Most U.S. states have a statutory provision that allows such a reclamation of property.\n\n"}
{"id": "12368802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368802", "title": "Scientology status by country", "text": "Scientology status by country\n\nScientology status by country describes the status of Scientology and its recognition as a religion or otherwise in different countries. The Church of Scientology pursues an extensive public relations campaign for state recognition of Scientology as a religion and cites numerous scholarly sources supporting its position. The level of recognition Scientology has been able to obtain varies significantly from country to country.\n\nThe Church of Scientology has been recognized as a religious denomination in its home country, the United States, and has received full recognition in various other countries such as Italy, South Africa, Australia, Sweden, New Zealand, Portugal and Spain; it thus enjoys and regularly cites the constitutional protection afforded in these nations to religious practice. Some countries, mostly in Europe, have regarded Scientology as a potentially dangerous cult, or at least have not considered local branches of the Church of Scientology to meet the legal criteria for being considered religion-supporting organizations, seeing Scientology as a business.\n\nThe 2014 ruling in London, which had five judges in the UK Supreme Court unanimously rule that a Scientology chapel is a \"place of meeting for religious worship\", solidified the church's status as a religion in the region. While some theologians critically approach Scientology's status as a religion, social scientists as a whole agree that it \"satisfies the abstract criteria for recognition as a religion\".\n\nScientology is not recognised by any of the other 157 member states of the United Nations at this point.\n\n"}
{"id": "3457359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3457359", "title": "Superinsulation", "text": "Superinsulation\n\nSuperinsulation is an approach to building design, construction, and retrofitting that dramatically reduces heat loss (and gain) by using much higher levels of insulation and airtightness than normal. Superinsulation is one of the ancestors of the passive house approach.\n\nThere is no universally agreed definition of superinsulation, but superinsulated buildings typically include:\n\nNisson & Dutt (1985) suggest that a house might be described as \"superinsulated\" if the cost of space heating is lower than the cost of water heating.\n\nA superinsulated house is intended to reduce heating needs very significantly and may even be heated predominantly by intrinsic heat sources (waste heat generated by appliances and the body heat of the occupants) with very small amounts of backup heat. This has been demonstrated to work even in very cold climates but requires close attention to construction details in addition to the insulation (see IEA Solar Heating & Cooling Implementing Agreement Task 13).\n\nThe term \"superinsulation\" was coined by Wayne Schick at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In 1976 he was part of a team that developed a design called the \"Lo-Cal\" house, using computer simulations based on the climate of Madison, Wisconsin. Several houses, duplexes and condos based on Lo-Cal principles were built in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1977 the \"Saskatchewan House\" was built in Regina, Saskatchewan, by a group of several Canadian government agencies. It was the first house to publicly demonstrate the value of superinsulation and generated a lot of attention. It originally included some experimental evacuated-tube solar panels, but they were not needed and were later removed. The house was heated primarily by waste heat from appliances and the occupants.\n\nIn 1977 the \"Leger House\" was built by Eugene Leger, in East Pepperell, Massachusetts. It had a more conventional appearance than the \"Saskatchewan House\", and also received extensive publicity.\n\nPublicity from the \"Saskatchewan House\" and the \"Leger House\" influenced other builders, and many superinsulated houses were built over the next few years. These houses also influenced Wolfgang Feist when he developed the Passivhaus standard.\n\nIt is possible, and increasingly desirable, to retrofit superinsulation to an existing houses or buildings. The easiest way is often to add layers of continuous rigid exterior insulation, and sometimes by building new exterior walls that allow more space for insulation. A vapor barrier can be installed on the outside of the original framing but may not be needed. An improved continuous air barrier is almost always worth adding, as older homes tend to be leaky, and such an air barrier can be important for energy savings and durability. Care should be exercised when adding a vapor barrier as it can reduce drying of incidental moisture, or even cause summer (in climates with humid summers) interstitial condensation and consequent mold and mildew. This may cause health problems for the occupants and damage the existing structure. Many builders in northern Canada use a simple 1/3 to 2/3 approach, placing the vapor barrier no further out than 1/3 of the R-value of the insulated portion of the wall. This method is generally valid for interior walls that have little or no vapor resistance (e.g. they use fibrous insulation) and controls air leakage condensation as well as vapor diffusion condensation. This approach will ensure that condensation does not occur on or to the inside of the vapor barrier during cold weather. The 1/3:2/3 rule will ensure that the vapor barrier temperature will not fall below the dew point temperature of the interior air, and will minimize the possibility of cold-weather condensation problems. For example, with an internal room temperature of 20°C (68°F), the vapor barrier will then only reach 7.3 °C (45 °F) when the outside temperatures is at −18°C (-1°F). Indoor air dewpoint temperatures are more likely to be in the order of around 0 °C (32 °F) when it is that cold outdoors, much lower than the predicted vapor barrier temperature, and hence the 1/3:2/3 rules is quite conservative. For climates that do not often experience -18°C, the 1/3:2/3 rule should be amended to 40:60% or 50:50. As the interior air dewpoint temperature is an important basis for such rules, buildings with high interior humidities during cold weather (e.g., museums, swimming pools, humdified or poorly ventilated airtight homes) may require different rules, as can buildings with drier interior environments (such as highly ventilated buildings, warehouses). The 2009 International Residential Code (IRC) embodies more sophisticated rules to guide the choice of insulation on the exterior of new homes, which can be applied when retrofitting older homes.\n\nA vapor permeable building wrap on the outside of the original wall helps keep the wind out, yet allows the wall assembly to dry to the exterior. Asphalt felt and other products such as permeable polymer based products are available for this purpose, and usually double as the Water Resistant Barrier / drainage plane as well.\n\nInterior retrofits are possible where the owner wants to preserve the old exterior siding, or where setback requirements don't leave space for an exterior retrofit. Sealing the air barrier is more difficult and the thermal insulation continuity compromised (because of the many partition, floor, and service penetrations), the original wall assembly is rendered colder in cold weather (and hence more prone to condensation and slower to dry), occupants are exposed to major disruptions, and the house is left with less interior space. Another approach is to use the 1/3 to 2/3 method mentioned above — that is, to install a vapor retarder on the inside of the existing wall (if there isn't one there already) and add insulation and support structure to the inside. This way, utilities (power, telephone, cable, and plumbing) can be added in this new wall space without penetrating the air barrier. Polyethylene vapor barriers are risky except in very cold climates, because they limit the wall's ability to dry to the interior. This approach also limits the amount of interior insulation that can be added to a rather small amount (e.g., only R6 can be added to a 2x4 R12 wall).\n\nIn new construction, the cost of the extra insulation and wall framing may be offset by not requiring a dedicated central heating system. In homes with numerous rooms, more than one floor, air conditioning or large sized, a central furnace is often justified or required to ensure sufficiently uniform temperatures. Small furnaces are not very expensive and some ductwork to every room is almost always required to provide ventilation air in any case. When peak demand and annual energy use is low, sophisticated and expensive central heating systems are not often required. Hence, even electric resistance heaters may be used. Electric heaters are typically only used on the coldest winter nights when overall demand for electricity is low. Other forms of backup heater are widely used, such as wood pellets, wood stoves, natural gas boilers or even furnaces. The cost of a superinsulation retrofit should be balanced against the future cost of heating fuel (which can be expected to fluctuate from year to year due to supply problems, natural disasters or geopolitical events), the desire to reduce pollution from heating a building, or the desire to provide exceptional thermal comfort.\n\nDuring a power failure, a superinsulated house stays warm longer as heat loss is much less than normal, but the thermal storage capacity of the structural materials and contents is the same. Adverse weather may hamper efforts to restore power, leading to outages lasting a week or more. When deprived of their continuous supply of electricity (either for heat directly, or to operate gas-fired furnaces), conventional houses cool rapidly during, and may be at greater risk of costly damage due to freezing water pipes. Residents who use supplemental heating methods without proper care during such episodes, or at any other time, may subject themselves to risk of fire or carbon monoxide poisoning.\n\nThe first superinsulated houses used standard stud-wall construction, but other building techniques can be used:\n\n"}
{"id": "2247689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247689", "title": "The Devil and Daniel Mouse", "text": "The Devil and Daniel Mouse\n\nThe Devil and Daniel Mouse is a 1978 Canadian animated Halloween television special, produced by Nelvana animation studio. It is based on the story of \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\".\n\nThe Nelvana logo made its first appearance at the end of the film. \n\nThe story is about two struggling mouse musicians, Daniel and Jan. When they are fired from their latest gig (their music is deemed too old-fashioned and not with the times), Daniel goes to pawn his guitar in order to buy groceries. Jan wanders off on her own and encounters a shifty reptilian character in a white suit who introduces himself as \"B.L. Zebub\", a record producer.\n\nHe and his weasel assistant, Weez Weezel, offer her fame and fortune in exchange for signing a contract in her own blood. Jan does not read the fine print and trusts B.L., signing herself over to his record production company. Little does she suspect that B.L. is none other than the devil himself, and at midnight at the height of her fame he will return to collect her soul. To assist her, Weez conjures three band members from thin air, a rabbit (Rabbit Delight), a beaver (Boom Boom Beaver), and a praying mantis (Pray Mantis).\n\nAs the lead singer of \"Funky Jan and the Animal Kingdom\", Jan is soon the most popular rock star on the planet, while the oblivious Daniel is left out in the cold. But when B.L. comes for her soul and she realizes what she has done, a distraught Jan goes to Daniel for help. A trial is held in the woods that night over Jan's soul, with Weez as the judge and Daniel acting as Jan's attorney. As an additional stipend, the Devil states that should Daniel lose the trial, his soul, as well as Jan's, will be taken as payment. At first, the trial seems hopeless, considering Daniel has no education as a lawyer and cannot present even the beginnings of a reasonable argument to release Jan.\n\nHaving nothing else to offer, Daniel begins to sing a heartfelt song. Jan joins in, as do her three heretofore unhelpful band members. The other animals watching the trial begin to sing and clap along to the tune and so do the jury of three lost souls. An enraged devil attempts to summon forth demons to stop the heroes, but the spirits he conjures also fall prey to the sway of Daniel's music.\n\nA frustrated devil finally leaves, returning to Hell and taking Weez and all of his other minions with him. The two mice embrace one another as the film ends.\n\n\nA tie-in story LP record was released by Nelvana Records in 1978.' Narrated by John Sebastian, the album features dialog lifted straight from the film's soundtrack as well as songs performed by Sebastian, Valerie Carter (credited as Laurel Runn) and the Reggie Knighton Band. As in the film, the dialog is interspersed with several of the songs.\n\nFirst published by Avon/Camelot in 1979, the storybook was written by screenwriter Ken Sobol and features music and lyrics for three John Sebastian penned songs (\"I've Got a Song\", \"Can You Help Me Find My Song?\" and \"Look Where the Music Can Take You\"). Simplified for younger readers, many of the visual gags and a few scenes were omitted from the book.\n\n\"The Devil and Daniel Mouse\" was simultaneously issued as a stand-alone title on Betamax and VHS as well as featured on several compilations of Nelvana's TV specials.' The stand-alone version can be cheaply obtained on eBay and amazon.com from time to time; the compilations generally sell for a heftier price tag.\n\nThe first and more widely available compilation to feature the film was \"Nelvanamation (Volume 1)\". Also featured on this video are \"Romie-0 and Julie-8\", \"Intergalactic Thanksgiving\" and \"A Cosmic Christmas\".\n\nHeadlining a collection similar to \"Nelvanamation\", this CED Videodisc also includes \"Romie-0 and Julie-8\", \"Easter Fever\", \"Intergalactic Thanksgiving\" and \"A Cosmic Christmas\".\n\n\"The Devil and Daniel Mouse\" became the inspiration for Nelvana's first feature film, \"Rock & Rule\". The film and \"How We Made the Devil and Daniel Mouse\", a vintage \"making of\" documentary, were both included on the two-DVD and Blu-Ray versions of that film in a slightly edited form of 22 minutes from its original 25-minute running time.\n\nDialogue from this cartoon was used by the rock band Bauhaus in the song \"Party of the First Part\", found on some versions of \"The Sky's Gone Out\" and 1989's \"\". \n\n"}
{"id": "21834573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21834573", "title": "Tiny house movement", "text": "Tiny house movement\n\nThe tiny-house movement (also known as the \"small-house movement\") is an architectural and social movement that advocates living simply in small homes. there is no set definition as to what constitutes a tiny house. However, a residential structure under is generally considered a tiny home. The tiny-house movement promotes financial prudence, economically safe, shared community experiences, and a shift in consumerism-driven mindsets. \n\nIn the United States, the average size of new single family homes grew from in 1978, in 2007, and in 2013. Increased material wealth and individuals with high incomes are common reasons why homes sizes increased.\n\nThe small house movement is a return to houses of less than . Frequently, the distinction is made between \"small\" (between and ), and \"tiny\" houses (less than ), with some as small as . Sarah Susanka started the \"counter movement\" for smaller houses which she details in her book \"The Not So Big House\" (1997). Earlier pioneers include Lloyd Kahn, author of \"Shelter\" (1973) and Lester Walker, author of \"Tiny Houses\" (1987). Henry David Thoreau and the publication of his book \"Walden\" is also quoted as early inspiration.\n\nTiny houses on wheels was popularized by Jay Shafer who designed and lived in a 96 sq ft house and later went on to offer the first plans for tiny houses on wheels, initially founding Tumbleweed Tiny House Company, and then Four Lights Tiny House Company (September 6, 2012). In 2002, Shafer co-founded, along with Greg Johnson, Shay Salomon and Nigel Valdez the Small House Society. Salomon and Valdez subsequently published their guide to the modern Small House Movement, \"Little House on a Small Planet\" (2006) and Johnson published his memoir, \"Put Your Life on a Diet\" (2008).\n\nWith the depression hitting in 2008, the small house movement attracted more attention as it offered affordable, ecologically friendly housing. Overall, it represented a very small part of real estate transactions. Thus, only 1% of home buyers acquire houses of or less. Small houses are also used as accessory dwelling units (or ADUs), to serve as additional on-property housing for aging relatives or returning children, as a home office, or as a guest house. Tiny houses typically cost about $20,000 to $50,000 as of 2012. \n\nTiny houses have received tremendous media coverage\n\nWhile the movement is most active in America, interest in tiny homes has been revived in other developed countries, as well. For example:\n\nThe popularity of tiny houses has led to an increase in amateur builders which has raised concerns regarding safety among tiny house professionals. In 2013, the Tiny House Fair at Yestermorrow in Vermont was organized by Elaine Walker. An attendee at the event, Jay Shafer, suggested promoting ethical business practices and offering guidelines for construction of tiny houses on wheels. Walker continued this effort in 2015, creating the non-profit organization, American Tiny House Association. Walker and founders Elizabeth Roberts, Andrew Heben, Robert Reed, and William Rockhill promote tiny houses as viable living spaces and work with local government agencies on approving zoning and coding regulations that are favorable to tiny houses.\n\nOne of the biggest obstacles of the tiny house movement is the difficulty in finding a place to live in one. Zoning regulations typically specify minimum square footage for new construction on a foundation, and for tiny houses on wheels, parking on one's own land may be prohibited by local regulations against \"camping.\" In addition, RV parks do not always welcome tiny houses. \n\nTiny houses on wheels are considered RVs and are not suitable for permanent residence, according to the RVIA. From RV Business, \"The RVIA will continue to shy away from allowing members who produce products that are referred to as\"tiny houses\"or \"tiny homes\". (However, the RVIA does allow “tiny home” builders to join as long as their units are built to park model RV standards.)\" \n\nLower court decisions in the US have struck down zoning laws related to size that were an obstacle to tiny housing. One of those cases was League of South Jersey, Inc v. Township of Berlin, where the court found that a zoning law related to the size of a home did not protect citizens, so the law was struck down. These decisions are still far from being the majority, but they help in allowing the propagation of the tiny housing movement. \n\nIn 2014, the first \"tiny house friendly town\" was declared in Spur, Texas; however, it was later clarified that a tiny house may not be on wheels but must be secured to a foundation.\n\nIn July 2016, Washington County, Utah revised their zoning regulations to accommodate some types of tiny houses.\n\nIncreasingly, tiny houses have become larger, heavier, and more expensive. The ideal of minimal impact on the environment is being lost as businesses capitalize on the popularity of tiny homes. The distinction between tiny houses and luxury RVs is diminishing, causing some of the long time leaders to abandon the movement.\n\nThe financial crisis of 2007–08 fueled the growth of the small house movement. In several cities, an entrenched homeless population formed around \"tent cities\" or encampments that became semi-permanent housing. Homelessness in these communities was driven by foreclosures and expensive mortgages from the United States housing bubble.\n\nTiny houses became an affordable option for individuals that lost their homes. With their low cost and relative ease of construction, tiny houses are being adopted as shelters for the homeless in Eugene, OR; Olympia, WA; Ithaca, NY; and other cities. Communities of tiny houses offer residents a transition towards self-sufficiency. Communities such as Othello Village in Seattle, WA, originally lacked electricity and heat. In Seattle, non-profits have stepped in to help provide amenities.\n\nThe tiny house option can often be low-cost and is sometimes used to provide housing for the homeless; however, the long-term viability of tiny houses for the homeless is completely dependent on the structure and sustainability of the model. Housing the homeless is said to be a cost-saving for municipalities, but the strict zoning and land ownership laws make it difficult for this movement to take root. Some of the benefits of access to housing include privacy, storage, safety, restoration of dignity, and stability. \n\nIn Reno, Nevada, faith-based groups and community advocates have legislated for new zoning for housing for homeless persons via a tiny home community. Each tiny house would cost an estimated $3,800 to build, as well as an operating budget of $270,000 for case managers to help residents find more permanent housing and a project manager position.\n\nOne challenge besides zoning and funding has been a NIMBY response by communities. Communities may weigh concerns over tiny home communities becoming shantytowns or blighted neighborhoods that reduce property values of the surrounding neighborhoods. For cities such as Chicago, tiny houses are seen as an appealing option to close the gap in housing availability. Community planners also have concerns that communities don't devolve into shantytowns such as during the Great Depression in \"Hoovervilles\".\n\nIn California, the City of Richmond has engaged UC Berkeley students involved with the THIMBY (Tiny House In My Backyard) project with a pilot program for developing a model for six transitional tiny homes to be placed in Richmond. This is in-line with developing efforts in the SF Bay Area to use micro-apartments and tiny houses in combating the housing crisis and Homelessness in the San Francisco Bay Area. Similar efforts of using tiny houses to house the homeless are also ongoing in Oakland through a partnership between the City of Oakland and Laney College.\n\nIn the co-authored research article \"The Psychology of Home Environments\", it's argued that the drive behind the tiny house movement is centered around desires of modesty and conservation, in addition to environmental consciousness, self-sufficiency, and wanting a life of adventure. Environmental psychologists reason that homes influence people’s emotional state because they “facilitate the social interactions and the power dynamics that are played out in a home”. In building tiny houses, there is often a misalignment between the needs of the occupant(s), and the expressed design from the creating team. This reality is used as a call for architects and design teams to work with psychologists to build tiny homes that are better suited towards the needs of the occupant(s). In understanding these considerations, it is important to note that not everyone is suited for a tiny house. \n\nSmaller homes are less expensive than larger ones in terms of taxes and building, heating, maintenance, and repair costs. The lower cost of living may be advantageous to those 55 and older with little savings. In addition to costing less, small houses may encourage a less cluttered, simpler lifestyle, and reduce ecological impacts for their residents. The typical size of a small home seldom exceeds . The typical tiny house on wheels is usually less than , with livable space totaling or less, for ease of towing and to exempt it from the need for a building permit.\n\nSmall houses may emphasize design over size, utilize dual purpose features and multi-functional furniture, and incorporate technological advances of space saving equipment and appliances. Vertical space optimization is also a common feature of small houses and apartments.\n\nAs small houses may be attractive as second homes or retirement houses, their increased utilization may lead to development of more land. People interested in building a small home can encounter institutional “discrimination” when building codes require minimum size well above the size of a small home. Also, neighbors may be hostile because they fear negative impacts on their property values. There has also been opposition based on this fact, due to concerns about increased taxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6025967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6025967", "title": "Transport Licensing Act 1931", "text": "Transport Licensing Act 1931\n\nThe Transport Licensing Act 1931 was a New Zealand Act of Parliament regulating land transport. It was introduced following a Royal Commission on road and rail competition in 1930. The Act also regulated aspects such as safety and insurance requirements for carriers and the regulation of public passenger services.\n\nIn 1933, the Act was amended to cover all rural road carriers carting in excess of . In 1939, town carriers were regulated.\n\nIn 1936, the protection of railways was extended to cover all freight conveyed over distances greater than those specified by the Act. This was by far the most crucial regulation, as it gave rail an effective monopoly on long-distance freight transport. Originally this limit was . In 1962 it was increased to , and in 1977 to .\n\nThe Act was repealed in 1982, effectively deregulating land transport and opening the railways up to competition. The Railways Department was corporatised as the New Zealand Railways Corporation as a result, and throughout the 1980s until the early 1990s lost substantial amounts of freight to road carriers. Freight traffic reached its low point in 1993, and since then railway freight traffic has increased.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45159097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45159097", "title": "William Pantulf", "text": "William Pantulf\n\nWilliam Pantulf (died 16 April probably in 1112) was an Anglo-Norman nobleman and Baron of Wem. He was born in Calvados, a region of Normandy, where his family had lived since around 1030. Pantulf held lands in Shropshire following the Norman Conquest of England. A vassal of Roger of Montgomery, the Earl of Shrewsbury, Pantulf was accused of murdering Roger's wife but proved his innocence of the charge by a trial by ordeal. When Roger's son Robert of Belleme rebelled against King Henry I of England, Pantulf did not take part and sided with the king. Upon his death, which most likely occurred in 1112, William's eldest son Philip inherited his Norman lands, and his second son Robert received the English lands.\n\nPantulf was from Noron in the Calvados region of Normandy. His family had lived there since at least around 1030, as a charter of Jumièges Abbey shows the family as vassals of the House of Montgomery in the Montgomery lands near Sées. Pantulf's mother was named Beatrice, and his sister was named Helwise, but his father's name and other siblings are not known.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest of England, Pantulf held lands in Shropshire from Earl Roger de Montgomery. The earl settled a number of his Norman vassals, including Pantulf, on his new lands in Sussex and Shropshire. Pantulf was probably not present at the Battle of Hastings, likely due to Earl Roger's lack of participation in the campaign of conquest. Pantulf's grants totalled eleven manors located in Hodnet Hundred. Pantulf's lands in England were centered on Wem, and are considered a feudal barony, making Pantulf the first Baron of Wem. Although he had substantial lands in England, Pantulf continued to spend most of his time on the continent.\n\nPantulf was present at the consecration of the church at Bec Abbey on 23 October 1077, along with King William the Conqueror of England. Pantulf lost his lands temporarily because he was suspected of murdering Roger's wife Mabel de Bellême, around 1077. Pantulf came under suspicion because Mabel had seized a castle at Peray en Saonnais held by Pantulf. When he was accused of the murder, Pantulf was in southern Italy, which had also been conquered by Normans. Pantulf sought refuge at the Abbey of Saint-Evroul in Normandy while he was under suspicion; he and his family were under the protection of the abbot.\n\nPantulf regained his lands after he cleared himself of the charge, through the mechanism of a trial by ordeal. It is not clear why the ordeal was required, with the historian David Bates speculating that either the evidence of Pantulf's involvement was not conclusive or that murder victim's family demanded the ordeal because they suspected any evidence pointing to Pantulf's innocence. Pantulf gave Saint-Evroul four altar frontals for the abbey's help after he was cleared of the charges.\n\nBy 1086 Pantulf held 29 manors in Shropshire, along with other lands in Staffordshire and Warwickshire. When Roger's son Robert de Bellême became Earl of Shrewsbury in 1098, Pantulf was once more deprived of those lands he held as a vassal of the Earl.\n\nIn 1102 Robert de Bellême rebelled against King Henry I of England. Although Pantulf was still deprived of his previous holdings, he offered to support Robert, but was rebuffed and instead supported the king. Henry placed Stafford Castle in Pantulf's custody. Besides controlling Stafford Castle, Pantulf mediated between Henry and some of the Welsh princes, who had previously sided with Robert, and helped secure their support for the king. Later Pantulf again acted as an envoy for the king, being sent to secure the switch of sides of Robert's men who were holding Bridgnorth. Pantulf won their change of sides by offering the men lands worth a 100 pounds on the king's behalf. His services to the king earned Pantulf the restoration of his confiscated estates as well as the grant of further lands—including the fief of Roger de Courcelles.\n\nPantulf married Lescelina and they had four sons – Philip, Ivo, Arnald and Robert. He and his wife founded Noron Priory, in 1073. This was located in Normandy and was founded as a small dependent priory of Saint Evroul. Besides Noron, Pantulf was also a benefactor of the Saint-Evroul. In 1092 Pantulf journeyed to southern Italy again, this time to secure a relic of Saint Nicholas for his foundation at Noron. During this visit, he was offered extensive lands in Apulia by Robert Guiscard, but declined the offer and returned to the north. Pantulf died on 16 April, probably in 1112, when his English lands were transferred to his second son Robert. The Norman lands went to the eldest son, Philip. Pantulf and his wife were buried at Noron in the cloister of his priory there.\n\nOrderic Vitalis described Pantulf as \"kind to the poor, to whom he was liberal in alms, he was firm in prosperity and adversity, put down all his enemies, and exercised great power through his wealth and possessions\".\n\n"}
