{"id": "11683576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11683576", "title": "Accessible tourism", "text": "Accessible tourism\n\nAccessible tourism is the ongoing endeavour to ensure tourist destinations, products and services are accessible to all people, regardless of their physical limitations, disabilities or age. It encompasses publicly and privately owned tourist locations. The term has been defined by Darcy and Dickson (2009, p34) as:\n\nAccessible tourism enables people with access requirements, including mobility, vision, hearing and cognitive dimensions of access, to function independently and with equity and dignity through the delivery of universally designed tourism products, services and environments. This definition is inclusive of all people including those travelling with children in prams, people with disabilities and seniors.\nModern society is increasingly aware of the concept of integration of people with disabilities. Issues such as accessibility, design for all and universal design are featured in the international symposia of bodies such as the European Commission. Steps have been taken to promote guidelines and best practices, and major resources are now dedicated to this field.\n\nA greater understanding of the accessible tourism market has been promoted through research commissioned by the European Commission where a stakeholder analysis has provided an insight into the complexities of accessible tourism. Similarly, the Australian Sustainable Tourism Cooperative Research Centre funded an Accessible Tourism Research Agenda that sought to outline a research base on which to develop the supply, demand and coordination/regulation information required to develop the market segment. The research agenda has now seen three other funded projects contribute towards a research base on which the tourism industry and government marketing authorities can make more informed decisions.\n\nAs of 2008, there were more than 50 million persons with disabilities in Europe, and more than 600 million around the world. When expanded to include all beneficiaries of accessible tourism, as defined above, the number grows to some 130 million people affected in Europe alone. According to the World Report on Disability by World Health Organization and the World Bank in 2011, over 1 billion of people in the world had some disability, of whom nearly 200 million experienced severe difficulty in functioning. \n\nIn addition to the social benefits, the market represents an opportunity for new investment and new service requirements, rarely provided by key players in the tourism sector.\n\nAccording to ENAT, the European Network for Accessible Tourism, accessible tourism includes:\n\nSpecific problems found by travellers or tourists with disabilities include:\n\n\nEurope and the United States of America are home to the majority of the existing companies in this niche. However, companies worldwide are starting to appear as the result of a growing need, largely driven by senior tourism, due to increasing life expectancy in developed countries. The United States requires ADA compliant ramp access to virtually all businesses and public places.\n\nPortugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and other northern European countries are increasingly prepared to receive tourists in wheelchairs, and to provide disability equipment and wheelchair accessible transport.\n\nWith the growth of the internet, online travel planning is also becoming more common, leading to the rise of online accessibility maps. Starting in 2016, Lonely Planet started offering online resources by country.\n\n"}
{"id": "39402041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39402041", "title": "Alcohol (Minimum Pricing) (Scotland) Act 2012", "text": "Alcohol (Minimum Pricing) (Scotland) Act 2012\n\nThe Alcohol (Minimum Pricing) (Scotland) Act 2012 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament, which introduces a statutory minimum price for alcohol, initially 50p per unit, as an element in the programme to counter alcohol problems.\n\nThe Act was passed with the support of the Scottish National Party, the Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats and the Greens. The opposition Labour Party refused to support the legislation because the Act failed to claw back an estimated £125m windfall profit from alcohol retailers. The Labour MSP Malcolm Chisholm, the former Minister for Health and Community Care, disobeyed his party's whip and supported the government.\n\nA legal challenge to the minimum pricing legislation failed at the Court of Session. The Scotch Whisky Association, the Confédération Européenne des Producteurs de Spiritueux and the Comité Européen des Entreprises Vins appealed the judgement. The act was delayed, with a legal challenge by the Scotch Whisky Association being referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Court of Session.\n\nThe decision of the court, delivered in December 2015, was that such legislation would only be lawful if alternative policies such as higher taxes would not be effective in protecting public health. Scottish judges would be required to consider evidence on this point.\n\nOn 15 November 2017, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom unanimously rejected the Scotch Whisky Association's case, ending the legal battle, arguing that minimum pricing was a \"proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim\".\n\nThe act came into effect on 1 May 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1499336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499336", "title": "Anne H. Ehrlich", "text": "Anne H. Ehrlich\n\nAnne Howland Ehrlich (born Anne Fitzhugh Howland; November 17, 1933) is the American co-author of several books on overpopulation and ecology with her husband, Stanford University professor Paul R. Ehrlich. She is associate director of the Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford University.\n\nEhrlich was born in Des Moines, Iowa, the daughter of Virginia (Fitzhugh) and Winston D. Howland. From 1952 to 1955, Anne Ehrlich attended the University of Kansas and performed scientific research on population biology, publishing numerous scientific articles.\n\nSince 1987, Anne Ehrlich has worked as associate director and policy coordinator of the Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford University.\n\nEhrlich served on the board of directors of Friends of the Earth from 1976 to 1985, the Center for Innovative Diplomacy from 1981 to 1992, the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory from 1989 to 1999, and the Sierra Club from 1996 to 2002. she serves on the boards of the Pacific Institute for Studies in Environment, Development, and Security and the New-Land Foundation. Until 2003 she sat on the board of advisors for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.\n\nWorks jointly authored with husband Paul Ehrlich:\n\nAnne Howland Ehrlich and Paul Ehrlich were married in 1954. They have one child, Lisa Marie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1217686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1217686", "title": "Appellation d'origine contrôlée", "text": "Appellation d'origine contrôlée\n\nThe appellation d'origine contrôlée (AOC; ; \"protected designation of origin\") is the French certification granted to certain French geographical indications for wines, cheeses, butters, and other agricultural products, all under the auspices of the government bureau \"Institut national des appellations d'origine\", now called Institut national de l'origine et de la qualité (INAO). It is based on the concept of \"terroir\".\n\nThe origins of AOC date to the year 1411, when Roquefort was regulated by a parliamentary decree. The first French law on viticultural designations of origin dates to August 1, 1905, whereas the first modern law was set on May 6, 1919, when the Law for the Protection of the Place of Origin was passed, specifying the region and commune in which a given product must be manufactured, and has been revised on many occasions since then. On July 30, 1935, the \"Comité National des appellations d'origine\" (CNAO), with representatives of the government and the major winegrowers, was created to manage the administration of the process for wines at the initiative of deputy Joseph Capus. In the Rhône wine region Baron Pierre Le Roy Boiseaumarié, a trained lawyer and winegrower from Châteauneuf-du-Pape, successfully obtained legal recognition of the \"Côtes du Rhône\" appellation of origin in 1936. After World War II the committee became the public-private \"Institut National des Appellations d'Origine\" (INAO). The AOC seal was created and mandated by French laws in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. On July 2, 1990, the scope of work of the INAO was extended beyond wines to cover other agricultural products .\n\nAOCs vary dramatically in size. Some cover vast expanses with a variety of climatic and soil characteristics, while others are small and highly uniform. For example, the Côtes du Rhône AOC \"covers some , but within its area lies one of the smallest AOCs, Château-Grillet, which occupies less than of land.\"\n\nThe INAO guarantees that all AOC products will hold to a rigorous set of clearly defined standards. The organization stresses that AOC products will be produced in a consistent and traditional manner with ingredients from specifically classified producers in designated geographical areas. The products must further be aged at least partially in the respective designated area.\n\nUnder French law, it is illegal to manufacture and sell a product under one of the AOC-controlled geographical indications if it does not comply with the criteria of the AOC. AOC products can be identified by a seal, which is printed on the label in wines, and with cheeses, on the rind. To prevent any possible misrepresentation, no part of an AOC name may be used on a label of a product not qualifying for that AOC.\n\nThis strict label policy can lead to confusion, especially in cases where towns share names with appellations. If the town of origin of a product contains a controlled appellation in its name, the producer (who is legally required to identify the place of origin on the product label but legally prohibited from using the full town's name unless the product is an approved AOC product) is enjoined from listing anything more than a cryptic postal code. For example, there are a dozen townships in l'Aude that have Cabardès in their names, several of which are not even within the geographical boundaries of the Cabardès AOC. Any vineyard that produces wine in one of those towns must not mention the name of the town of origin on the product labels.\n\nThere are currently over 300 French wines entitled to the designation AOC on their label.\n\nLegislation concerning the way vineyards are identified makes recognizing the various AOCs very challenging for wine drinkers not well-acclimated to the system. Often, distinguishing classifications requires knowledge of esoteric label laws such as \"Unless the wine is from a \"Premier Cru\" vineyard, the vineyard name must be printed in characters no more than half the height of the ones used for the village name\"\n\nOn the other hand, while the process of label approval is enforced to the millimetre, the quality control for the wine in the bottle is much less strict. While a blind taster must approve the wine for it to receive AOC classification, this tasting often occurs before the product is even bottled, and by a local expert who may well have ties to the local vintners. Even if the taster is objective, the wine sample may not be representative of the actual product, and there is almost no way to verify that the finished bottled product is the same as the original AOC sample.\n\nIn 1925, Roquefort became the first cheese to be awarded an AOC label, and since then over 40 cheeses have been assigned AOC status.\n\nOn August 15, 1957, the National Assembly gave AOC status to the poultry of Bresse (Poulet de Bresse). In 2006, it awarded AOC status to salt marsh lamb raised in the Bay of the Somme.\n\nIn 1981, the AOC label was given to Haute-Provence Lavender Essential Oil. It refers to a very high-quality production and concerns only the essential oil of fine lavender - \"Lavandula angustifolia\". The fields must be located within a specific territory at a minimum altitude of 800 meters. This geographic area covers 284 communities in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Hautes-Alpes, Drôme and Vaucluse regions.\n\nLentils from Le Puy-en-Velay have AOC status. (See: Le Puy Green lentil.)\n\nHoney from the island of Corsica has been given AOC status. There are six certified varietals of Corsican honey: Printemps, Maquis de printemps, Miellats du maquis, Châtaigneraie, Maquis d'été, and Maquis d'automne.\n\nFrance recognizes the Charente, Charente-Maritime, Vienne, Deux-Sèvres and Vendée AOC regions for butter.<br>\nThe Beurre Charentes-Poitou has been assigned AOC status in 1979.\n\nArmagnac, Calvados, Cognac and Martinique Rhum Agricole all have AOC status.\n\nMany other countries have based their controlled place name systems on the French AOC classification. Italy's Denominazione di Origine Controllata and Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita followed the model set by the French AOC, and the EU standard for Quality Wines Produced in Specified Regions (QWpsr) also corresponds closely.\n\nWhile Spain's Denominación de Origen is very similar, the classification of Rioja in 1925 and Sherry in 1933 preceded the French AOC system by a few years and show that Spain's DdO system developed parallel to France's AOC system to some extent. Similarly, Germany's Qualitätswein bestimmter Anbaugebiete is a wine classification system based on geographic region, but it differs from the AOC in important ways. Qualitätswein bestimmter Anbaugebiete wines are commonly seen as less prestigious than Qualitätswein mit Prädikat, making it more similar to the Vin de Pays or Vin Délimité de Qualité Supérieure systems.\n\nPortugal's Denominação de Origem Controlada, Austria's Districtus Austria Controllatus, South Africa's Wine of Origin, and Switzerland's AOC-IGP are all similar to the French AOC system as well.\n\nIt appears also that AOC influenced the development of the European Union's protected designation of origin (PDO) system.\n\nSwitzerland has an \"appellation d'origine contrôlée\" certification for wines and an \"appellation d'origine protégée\" certification for other food products. Before 2013, the \"appellation d'origine contrôlée\" was used for all products.\n\nThe United States' American Viticultural Areas also follows the model set by the French AOC. The United States Department of the Treasury's Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau even uses the legal terminology \"Appellation of Wine Origin\" to describe a vintage wine's location of origin. The AVA indication on a label indicates that 85% of the grapes for wine are grown in the designated AVA. Overall, the appellation of a wine simply says where the grapes are from, although there are some particularities. If the appellation is a state, 100% of the grapes which go into the wine must come from the specific state. If a winery gets grapes from a neighboring state (for example, a California vintner getting Pinot noir from Oregon), it may label the wine \"Oregon\", but if the state is not a neighboring one (for example, a California vintner getting Cabernet from Washington state), the only permitted appellation is \"American.\"\n\nIn Canada, there is a government-sanctioned wine standard called Vintners Quality Alliance (VQA). It only applies to Canadian wines, and only the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia regulate it.\n\nOutside their home country, protecting the AOC status of certain products can face challenges, notably from a legal perspective. Some countries do not uphold a geographical indication system for their own products and thus, products which are labelled AOC in France, for instance, can be confronted on the international stage with foreign products claiming a similar geographical origin, even though it has not been recognized as such by the AOC system. In such a case, France (or another country) may enter into bilateral agreements with other countries, whereupon the signatories accept to recognize a special status to a list of designated products, or it can also seek the development of rules or agreements at the World Trade Organization level.\n\nSince each country has its own legal and agricultural framework, the specifics of each trade relationship are likely to vary. Also, there are often conflicts between trademarks and geographical indications. For instance, in Canada, only Canadian wines can be VQA approved but other certification trademarks can be registered under the intellectual property legal regime. The owner of a certification trademark is then allowed to sell licences to be used for certain products meeting the owner's criteria. Thus in the case of wines, one AOC certification trademark is owned by the French Republic, while another is owned by \"Maison des Futailles\", a wine producer, of which the publicly owned Société des alcools du Québec is a partner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162615", "title": "Assisted suicide", "text": "Assisted suicide\n\nAssisted suicide is suicide committed with the aid of another person, sometimes a physician. The term is often used interchangeably with physician-assisted suicide (PAS), which involves a doctor \"knowingly and intentionally providing a person with the knowledge or means or both required to commit suicide, including counseling about lethal doses of drugs, prescribing such lethal doses or supplying the drugs.\" Physician-assisted suicide is similar to but formally distinct from euthanasia. In cases of euthanasia the physician administers the means of death, usually a lethal drug. In physician-assisted suicide, it is required that a person of sound mind voluntarily expresses his or her wish to die and requests a dose of barbiturates that will end his or her life. The distinguishing aspect is that physician-assisted suicide requires the patient to self-administer the drugs.\n\nCanada, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Colombia, and Switzerland allow physicians to physically assist in the death of patients. In the United States, seven states allow physician-assisted suicide. Non-medical assisted suicide is unlawful by common law or criminal statute in the vast majority of the United States (with some states having no definitive law or statute).\nOne argument for assisted suicide is that it reduces prolonged suffering in those with terminal illnesses. When death is imminent (half a year or less) patients can choose to have assisted death as a medical option to shorten what the person perceives to be an unbearable dying process.\nPain is mostly not reported as the primary motivation for seeking physician assisted suicide in the United States; the three most frequently mentioned end‐of‐life concerns reported by Oregon residents who took advantage of the Death With Dignity Act in 2015 were: decreasing ability to participate in activities that made life enjoyable (96.2%), loss of autonomy (92.4%), and loss of dignity (78.4%).\n\nA study of hospice nurses and social workers in Oregon reported that symptoms of pain, depression, anxiety, extreme air hunger and fear of the process of dying were more pronounced among hospice patients who did not request a lethal prescription for barbiturates, the drug used for physician assisted death.\n\nA Journal of Palliative Medicine report on patterns of hospice use noted that Oregon was in both the highest quartile of hospice use and the lowest quartile of potentially concerning patterns of hospice use. A similar trend was found in Vermont, where AiD was authorized in 2013.\n\nIn Oregon, in hospital death rates are at the lowest in the nation, at home death rates are at the highest in the nation, and violent suicide among hospice patients has been reduced significantly.\n\nIn February 2016, Oregon released a report on their 2015 numbers. During 2015, there were 218 people in the state who were approved and received the lethal drugs to end their own life. Of that 218, 132 terminally ill patients ultimately made the decision to ingest drugs, resulting in their death. According to the state of Oregon Public Health Division’s survey, the majority of the participants, 78%, were 65 years of age or older and predominately Caucasian, 93.1%. 72% of the terminally ill patients who opted for ending their own lives had been diagnosed with some form of cancer. In the state of Oregon’s 2015 survey, they asked the terminally ill who were participating in medical aid in dying, what their biggest end-of-life concerns were: 96.2% of those people mentioned the loss of the ability to participate in activities that once made them enjoy life, 92.4% mentioned the loss of autonomy, or their independence of their own thoughts or actions, and 75.4% stated loss of their dignity (Oregon Death With Dignity Act).\n\nAn increasing trend in deaths caused from ingesting lethal doses of medications prescribed by physicians was also noted in Washington: from 64 deaths in 2009 to 202 deaths in 2015. Among the deceased, 72% had terminal cancer and 8% had neurodegenerative diseases (including ALS).\n\nPolls conducted by Gallup dating back to 1947 positing the question, \"When a person has a disease that cannot be cured, do you think doctors should be allowed to end the patient's life by some painless means if the patient and his family request it?\" show support for the practice increasing from 37% in 1947 to a plateau of approximately 75% lasting from approximately 1990 to 2005. When the polling question was modified as such so the question posits \"severe pain\" as opposed to an incurable disease, \"legalization\" as opposed to generally allowing doctors, and \"patient suicide\" rather than physician-administered euthanasia, public support was substantially lower, by approximately 10% to 15%.\n\nA poll conducted by National Journal and Regence Foundation found that both Oregonians and Washingtonians were more familiar with the terminology \"end-of-life care\" than the rest of the country and residents of both states are slightly more aware of the terms palliative and hospice care.\n\nA survey from the Journal of Palliative Medicine found that family caregivers of patients who chose assisted death were more likely to find positive meaning in caring for a patient and were more prepared for accepting a patient's death than the family caregivers of patients who didn’t request assisted death.\n\nMany current assisted death/assisted suicide laws contain provisions that are intended to provide oversight and investigative processes to prevent abuse.\n\nThis includes eligibility and qualification processes, mandatory state reporting by the medical team, and medical board oversight. In Oregon and other states, two doctors and two witnesses must assert that a person's request for a lethal prescription wasn’t coerced or under undue influence.\n\nThese safeguards include proving one's residency and eligibility. The patient must meet with two physicians and they must confirm the diagnoses before one can continue; in some cases, they do include a psychiatric evaluation as well to determine whether or not the patient is making this decision on their own. The next steps are two oral requests, a waiting period of a minimum of 15 days before making your next request. A written request which must be witnessed by two different people, one of which cannot be a family member, and then another waiting period by your doctor in which they either say you're eligible for the drugs or not (\"Death with Dignity\").\n\nThe debate about whether these safeguards work is debated between opponents and proponents.\n\nListed below are some major organizations that support medical aid in dying:\n\nCompassion and Choices\n\nCompassion and Choices is a nonprofit organization in support of end of life care and claims to be the biggest nonprofit in the United States to do so. Created over 30 years ago the group provides patients with legal assistance as well as advice and information about medical aid in dying.\n\nThe Death with Dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that has been in existence since 1993. This organization is most notably associated with the original writing and continued advocating of the Oregon Death with Dignity Law that was enacted on October 27, 1997. Oregon, Washington, and Vermont laws state that mentally competent, and terminally ill adult patients can determine if they want to receive prescription medication so they can die in a humane and peaceful way.\n\nDignitas helps Swiss nationals and foreigners to die by providing advice and lethal drugs. The legal pre-requisites are that a person must have either a terminal illness, an unendurable incapacitating disability or unbearable and uncontrollable pain. However, in practice they also accept mentally ill patients or those without a medical diagnosis. 25% of people in Switzerland who use assisted suicide do not have a terminal illness but are \"tired of life\", for example the retired British art teacher who killed herself on 27 March 2014 \"in part because she had become fed up with the modern world of emails, TVs, computers and supermarket ready meals.\"\n\nDignity in Dying Is a United Kingdom based campaign group for the right to die, supporting members with advice and information relating to palliative care, and other end of life options. The organization frequently campaigns for the right of adults to make choices about their end of life options. The group was founded in 1935 and has since then been one of the bigger organizations to openly support assisted suicide in the UK. Their main goal is for the choice to choose how they die and to have a completely free choice to their end of life options.\n\nDADID is a campaign group created by Dignity in Dying for disabled people who share the group's perspective on assisted death in the UK. A Yougov poll undertaken by the National Secular Society, which supports assisted death, suggested that 80% of disabled persons support a change in the law, such as Lord Falconer's Bill to allow some form of assisted suicide. A 2015 Populus poll showed that 86% of disabled people support the introduction of assisted dying law in the UK.\n\nExit is a Scottish organization that supports a permissive model of right-to-die legislation based on published research and recommendations from Glasgow University using an 'exceptions to the rule' (against euthanasia) format to facilitate transparency and open safeguards. Exit published the world's first guide on medical aid in dying, called \"How to Die With Dignity\" (1980); followed by \"Departing Drugs\" (1993), and the \"Five Last Acts\" series. Exit also publishes a Blog with broad-ranging analysis of assisted-suicide related issues.\n\nExit International is the publisher of the assisted dying guidebook The Peaceful Pill Handbook by Dr. Philip Nitschke and Dr. Fiona Stewart. Founded in 2006 by Nitschke and based in Bellingham, Washington, Exit International is a pro-choice assisted dying organization with an online membership of around 18,000 internationally. The organization holds meetings and workshops in the US, Canada, the UK and Ireland, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nFinal Exit Network, Inc. is a nonprofit organization founded in 2004 for the purpose of serving as a resource to individuals seeking information and emotional support in dying medically as a means to end suffering from chronically painful—though not necessarily terminal—illness.\n\nHumanists UK is a British charity that promotes humanism. They support the right of those who are suffering incurably to have access to an assisted death, and they have supported various court cases to this effect. In contrast to Dignity in Dying, they do not think assisted dying should only be the right of the terminally ill.\n\nMy Death My Decision is a British organisation that believes those who suffer incurably and have a quality of life below which is acceptable to them should have access to an assisted death. Similar to Humanists UK, they do not think assisted dying should only be the right of the terminally ill.\n\nThe World Federation of Right to Die Societies was founded in 1980 and encompasses 38 right-to-die organizations in 23 different countries.\n\nThe most current version of the American Medical Association’s Code of Ethics clearly states that physician-assisted suicide is prohibited. It prohibits physician-assisted suicide because it is “fundamentally incompatible with the physician’s role as healer” and because it would be “difficult or impossible to control, and would pose serious societal risks”. \n\nSome doctors remind that physician-assisted suicide is contrary to the Hippocratic Oath, which is the oath historically taken by physicians. It states \"I will give no deadly medicine to anyone if asked, nor suggest any such counsel\". The original oath however has been modified many times and, contrary to popular belief, is not required by most modern medical schools. There are also procedures forbidden by the Hippocratic Oath which are in common practice today, such as abortion.\n\nThe Declaration of Geneva is a revision of the Hippocratic Oath, first drafted in 1948 by the World Medical Association in response to forced euthanasia, eugenics and other medical crimes performed in Nazi Germany. It contains, \"I will maintain the utmost respect for human life.\"\n\nThe International Code of Medical Ethics, last revised in 2006, includes \"A physician shall always bear in mind the obligation to respect human life\" in the section \"Duties of physicians to patients\".\n\nThe Statement of Marbella was adopted by the 44th World Medical Assembly in Marbella, Spain, in 1992. It provides that \"physician-assisted suicide, like euthanasia, is unethical and must be condemned by the medical profession.\"\n\nThere are many health care professionals, especially those concerned with bioethics, who are opposed to PAS due to the detrimental effects that the procedure can have with regard to vulnerable populations. This argument is known as the \"slippery slope\". This argument encompasses the apprehension that once PAS is initiated for the terminally ill it will progress to other vulnerable communities, namely the disabled, and may begin to be used by those who feel less worthy based on their demographic or socioeconomic status. In addition, vulnerable populations are more at risk of untimely deaths because, \"patients might be subjected to PAS without their genuine consent\".\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church acknowledges the fact that moral decisions regarding a person's life must be made according to one's own conscience and faith. Catholic tradition has said that one's concern for the suffering of another is not a sufficient reason to decide whether it is appropriate to act upon euthanasia. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, \"God is the creator and author of all life.\" In this belief system God created human life, therefore God is the judge when to end life. From the Roman Catholic Church’s perspective, deliberately ending one’s life or the life of another is morally wrong and defies the Catholic doctrine. Furthermore, ending one’s life deprives that person and his or her loved ones of the time left in life and causes enormous grief and sorrow for those left behind.\n\nPope Francis is the current dominant figure of the Catholic Church. He affirms that death is a glorious event and should not be decided for by anyone other than God. Pope Francis insinuates that defending life means defending its sacredness. The Roman Catholic Church teaches its followers that the act of euthanasia is unacceptable because it is perceived as a sin, as it goes against the Ten Commandments, \"Thou shalt not kill. (You shall not kill)\" As implied by the fifth commandment, the act of assisted suicide contradicts the dignity of human life as well as the respect one has for God.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church also recognizes the story of the Good Samaritan. It uses the story to call earnestly upon the Good Samaritan's actions and his love for his neighbor. In this tradition, the act of assisted suicide negates the respect and love we should have for our neighbors, as it mistakenly places the love God has for his followers in the hands of physicians.\n\nAs an alternative to the physician-assisted suicide and in order to alleviate pain, the Catholic Church proposes that terminally ill patients focus on religion and making peace with the Creator while receiving the love and mercy of their families and caregivers. Additionally, the Roman Catholic Church recommends that terminally ill patients should receive palliative care, which deals with physical pain while treating psychological and spiritual suffering as well, instead of physician-assisted suicide.\n\nWhile preservation of life is one of the greatest values in Judaism, there are rare instances of suicide and assisted suicide appearing in the Bible and Rabbinic literature. The medieval authorities debate the legitimacy of those measures and in what limited circumstances they might apply. The conclusion of the majority of later rabbinic authorities, and accepted normative practice within Judaism, is that suicide and assisted suicide can not be sanctioned even for a terminal patient in intractable pain.\n\nAccording to a 1988 General Resolution, \"Unitarian Universalists advocate the right to self-determination in dying, and the release from civil or criminal penalties of those who, under proper safeguards, act to honor the right of terminally ill patients to select the time of their own deaths\".\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is against euthanasia. Anyone who takes part in euthanasia, including \"assisted suicide\", is regarded as having violated the commandments of God. However the Church recognizes that when a person is in the final stages of terminal illness there may be difficult decisions to be taken. The Church states that 'When dying becomes inevitable, death should be looked upon as a blessing and a purposeful part of an eternal existence. Members should not feel obligated to extend mortal life by means that are unreasonable.\n\nListed below are organizations opposed to medical aid in dying:\n\n\nThere have been calls for organisations representing medical professionals to take a neutral stance on assisted dying, rather than a position of opposition. The argument is that this would enable public debate on the issue.\n\nIn December 2017, the Massachusetts Medical Society (MMS) voted to repeal their opposition to physician-assisted suicide and adopt a position of neutrality.\n\nIn October 2018, the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) voted to adopt a position of neutrality from one of opposition. This is contrary to the position taken by the American Medical Association (AMA), who oppose it.\n\nIt is widely acknowledged that physicians must play some role in the process of assisted suicide and euthanasia (as evident in the name \"physician-assisted suicide\"), often putting them at the forefront of the issue. Decades of opinion research shows that physicians in the US and several European countries are less supportive of legalization of PAS than the general public. In the US, although \"about two-thirds of the American public since the 1970s\" have supported legalization, surveys of physicians \"rarely show as much as half supporting a move.\" However, physician and other healthcare professional opinions vary widely on the issue of assisted suicide, as shown in the following tables.\n\nAttitudes toward PAS vary by health profession as well; an extensive survey of 3733 medical physicians was sponsored by the National Council for Palliative Care, Age Concern, Help the Hospices, Macmillan Cancer Support, the Motor Neurone Disease Association, the MS Society and Sue Ryder Care showed that opposition to euthanasia and PAS was highest among Palliative Care and Care of the Elderly specialists, with more than 90% of palliative care specialists against a change in the law.\n\nIn a 1997 study by Glasgow University's Institute of Law & Ethics in Medicine found pharmacists (72%) and anaesthetists (56%) to be generally in favor of legalizing PAS. Pharmacists were twice as likely as medical GPs to endorse the view that \"if a patient has decided to end their own life then doctors should be allowed in law to assist\". A report published in January 2017 by NPR suggests that the thoroughness of protections that allow physicians to refrain from participating in the municipalities that legalized assisted suicide within the United States presently creates a lack of access by those who would otherwise be eligible for the practice.\n\nA poll in the United Kingdom showed that 54% of General Practitioners are either supportive or neutral towards the introduction of assisted dying laws. A similar poll on Doctors.net.uk published in the BMJ said that 55% of doctors would support it. In contrast the BMA, which represents doctors in the UK, opposes it.\n\nVoluntary euthanasia was legalized in the Netherlands (in 2002), Belgium (in 2002), Luxembourg (in 2008), and Canada (in 2016). Assisted suicide, where the patient has to take the final action themselves (unlike voluntary euthanasia), is legal in Canada, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Switzerland and parts of the United States. In the United States there are assisted dying laws restricted to terminally ill adults in Oregon, Montana, Washington, Vermont, Hawaii, California, Colorado and Washington D.C. The laws require that the patient's attending physician certify mental competence. Oregon was the first United States state to legalize assisted suicide, which was achieved through popular vote. The Act was a citizens' initiative passed twice by Oregon voters. The first time was in a general election in November 1994 when it passed by a margin of 51% to 49%. An injunction delayed implementation of the Act until it was lifted on October 27, 1997. In November 1997, a measure was placed on the general election ballot to repeal the Act. Voters chose to retain the Act by a margin of 60% to 40%.\n\nAssisted suicide is currently illegal throughout Australia with the exception of Victoria where the Voluntary Assisted Dying Act 2017 (Victoria) was passed on 29 November 2017. It was legal in the Northern Territory for a short time under the Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995.\n\nThe \"Euthanasia Act\" legalized euthanasia in Belgium in 2002, but it didn't cover assisted suicide.\n\nIn 2006, Belgium partially legalized euthanasia with certain regulations:\n\nAs of November 2015, Belgium had the most liberal assisted suicide laws in the world.\n\nIn 2014, Belgium became the first country to authorize euthanasia for children, on request, if they have a terminal illness and understand the repercussions of their act.\n\nSuicide was considered a criminal offence in Canada until 1972. Physician-assisted suicide has been legal in the Province of Quebec since June 5, 2014. It was declared legal across the country because of the Supreme Court of Canada decision \"Carter v Canada (AG)\", of February 6, 2015. After a lengthy delay, the House of Commons passed a Bill (C-14) in mid June 2016 that allows for doctor-assisted suicide.\nBetween December 10, 2015 and June 30, 2017, since the passing of Bill C-14, over 2,149 medically assisted deaths were documented in Canada. Research published by Health Canada illustrates physician preference for physician administered euthanasia, citing concerns of effective administration and prevention of the potential complications of self-administration by patients.\n\nIn China, assisted suicide is illegal under Articles 232 and 233 of the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China.\n\nAn article in People's Daily reported that \"Nine people from Xi'an City in China made news when they 'jointly wrote to local media asking for euthanasia, or mercy killings'.[84] These people had uremia, a disease due to the failure of the kidneys, and expressed their \"unbearable suffering and [an unwillingness] to burden their families any more\".[85] In China, suicide or neglect is considered homicide and can be punished by three to seven years in prison. Zhong’s case rejected the legality of assisted suicide.\n\nIn May 1997 the Colombian Constitutional Court allowed for the euthanasia of sick patients who requested to end their lives, by passing Article 326 of the 1980 Penal Code. This ruling owes its success to the efforts of a group that strongly opposed euthanasia. When one of its members brought a lawsuit to the Colombian Supreme Court against it, the court issued a 6 to 3 decision that \"spelled out the rights of a terminally ill person to engage in voluntary euthanasia.\"\n\nIn February 2015, the Supreme Court gave the government 30 days to create a comprehensive set of guidelines for doctors, to assist them in avoiding breaches of the law, as although technically legal, many physicians face lawsuits where they must prove that all legal requirements were met prior to the procedure. This fear of legal action has led many doctors to refuse to perform the procedure, in spite of its legality.\n\nIn Denmark, passive euthanasia, or the refusal to accept treatment is not illegal. But voluntary euthanasia when a patient actively tries to kill themselves is illegal. 71% of Denmark's population is in favor of legalizing assisted suicide.\n\nThe controversy over legalising euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide is not as big as in the United States because of the country's \"well developed hospice care programme\". However, in 2000 the controversy over the topic was ignited with Vincent Humbert. After a car crash that left him \"unable to 'walk, see, speak, smell or taste'\", he used the movement of his right thumb to write a book, \"I Ask the Right to Die (Je vous demande le droit de mourir)\" in which he voiced his desire to \"die legally\". After his appeal was denied, his mother assisted in killing him by injecting him with an overdose of barbiturates that put him into a coma, killing him two days later. Though his mother was arrested for aiding in her son's death and later acquitted, the case did jump-start new legislation which states that when medicine serves \"no other purpose than the artificial support of life\" it can be \"suspended or not undertaken\".\n\nIn 2013 President François Hollande said that France should hold a national debate on the issue, and stated his intention to introduce a bill to parliament before the end of the year. Opinion polls in France show that the majority of the public are in favor of an assisted suicide law, however France's national ethics committee has advised against any change in the law.\n\nKilling somebody in accordance with their demands is always illegal under the German criminal code (Paragraph 216, \"Killing at the request of the victim; mercy killing\").\n\nAssisting with suicide by, for example, providing poison or a weapon, is generally legal. Since suicide itself is legal, assistance or encouragement is not punishable by the usual legal mechanisms dealing with complicity and incitement (German criminal law follows the idea of \"accessories of complicity\" which states that \"the motives of a person who incites another person to commit suicide, or who assists in its commission, are irrelevant\"). Nor is assisting with suicide explicitly outlawed by the criminal code. There can however be legal repercussions under certain conditions for a number of reasons. Aside from laws regulating firearms, the trade and handling of controlled substances and the like (e.g. when acquiring poison for the suicidal person), this concerns three points:\n\nIf the suicidal person is not acting out of his own free will, then assistance is punishable by any of a number of homicide offences that the criminal code provides for, as having \"acted through another person\" (§25, section 1 of the German criminal code, usually called \"mittelbare Täterschaft\"). Action out of free will is not ruled out by the decision to end one's life in itself; it can be assumed as long as a suicidal person \"decides on his own fate up to the end [...] and is in control of the situation.\"\n\nFree will cannot be assumed, however, if someone is manipulated or deceived. A classic textbook example for this, in German law, is the so-called \"Sirius\" case on which the Federal Court of Justice ruled in 1983: The accused had convinced an acquaintance that she would be reincarnated into a better life if she killed herself. She unsuccessfully attempted suicide, leading the accused to be charged with, and eventually convicted of attempted murder. (The accused had also convinced the acquaintance that he hailed from the star Sirius, hence the name of the case).\n\nApart from manipulation, the criminal code states three conditions under which a person is not acting under his own free will:\n\n\nUnder these circumstances, even if colloquially speaking one might say a person is acting of his own free will, a conviction of murder is possible.\n\nGerman criminal law obliges everybody to come to the rescue of others in an emergency, within certain limits (§323c of the German criminal code, \"Omission to effect an easy rescue\"). This is also known as a duty to rescue in English. Under this rule, the party assisting in the suicide can be convicted if, in finding the suicidal person in a state of unconsciousness, he does not do everything in his power to revive him. In other words, if someone assists a person in committing suicide, leaves, but comes back and finds the person unconscious, he must try to revive him.\n\nThis reasoning is disputed by legal scholars, citing that a life-threatening condition that is part, so to speak, of a suicide underway, is not an emergency. For those who would rely on that defence, the Federal Court of Justice has considered it an emergency in the past.\n\nGerman law puts certain people in the position of a warrantor (Garantenstellung) for the well-being of another, e.g. parents, spouses, doctors and police officers. Such people might find themselves legally bound to do what they can to prevent a suicide; if they do not, they are guilty of homicide by omission.\n\nAssisted suicide is illegal. \"At the current time, there are no initiatives in Iceland that seek the legalization of euthanasia or assisted suicide. The discussion on euthanasia has never received any interest in Iceland, and both lay people and health care professionals seem to have little interest in the topic. A few articles have appeared in newspapers but gained little attention.\"\n\nAssisted suicide is illegal.\" Both euthanasia and assisted suicide are illegal under Irish law. Depending on the circumstances, euthanasia is regarded as either manslaughter or murder and is punishable by up to life imprisonment.\"\n\nIn March 2003, a vote to legalise assisted suicide was lost by a single vote (at the time, assisted suicide was not illegal, as suicide was permitted under the criminal code, but a person assisting someone to take their own life could face prosecution). After again failing to get royal assent for legalizing euthanasia and assisted suicide, in December 2008 Luxembourg's parliament amended the country's constitution to take this power away from the monarch, the Grand Duke of Luxembourg. Euthanasia and assisted suicide were legalized in the country in April, 2009.\n\nNetherlands is the first country in the world formally to legalise euthanasia. Physician-assisted suicide is legal under the same conditions as euthanasia. Physician-assisted suicide became allowed under the Act of 2001 which states the specific procedures and requirements needed in order to provide such assistance. Assisted suicide in the Netherlands follows a medical model which means that only doctors of patients who are suffering \"unbearably without hope\" are allowed to grant a request for an assisted suicide. The Netherlands allows people over the age of 12 to pursue an assisted suicide when deemed necessary.\n\nAssisted suicide is illegal in New Zealand. Under Section 179 of the Crimes Act 1961, it is illegal to 'aid and abet suicide.'\n\nSouth Africa is struggling with the debate over legalizing euthanasia. Owing to the underdeveloped health care system that pervades the majority of the country, Willem Landman, \"a member of the South African Law Commission, at a symposium on euthanasia at the World Congress of Family Doctors\" stated that many South African doctors would be willing to perform acts of euthanasia when it became legalized in the country. He feels that because of the lack of doctors in the country, \"[legalizing] euthanasia in South Africa would be premature and difficult to put into practice [...]\".\n\nOn 30 April 2015 the High Court in Pretoria granted Advocate Robin Stransham-Ford an order that would allow a doctor to assist him in taking his own life without the threat of prosecution. On 6 December 2016 the Supreme Court of Appeal overturned the High Court ruling.\n\nThough it is illegal to assist a patient in dying in some circumstances, there are others where there is no offence committed. The relevant provision of the Swiss Criminal Code refers to \"a person who, for selfish reasons, incites someone to commit suicide or who assists that person in doing so will, if the suicide was carried out or attempted, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment (\"Zuchthaus\") of up to 5 years or a term of imprisonment (\"Gefängnis\").\"\n\nA person brought to court on a charge could presumably avoid conviction by proving that they were \"motivated by the good intentions of bringing about a requested death for the purposes of relieving \"suffering\" rather than for \"selfish\" reasons. In order to avoid conviction, the person has to prove that the deceased knew what he or she was doing, had capacity to make the decision, and had made an \"earnest\" request, meaning they asked for death several times. The person helping also has to avoid actually doing the act that leads to death, lest they be convicted under Article 114: Killing on request (Tötung auf Verlangen) -\nA person who, for decent reasons, especially compassion, kills a person on the basis of his or her serious and insistent request, will be sentenced to a term of imprisonment (Gefängnis). For instance, it should be the suicide subject who actually presses the syringe or takes the pill, after the helper had prepared the setup. This way the country can criminalise certain controversial acts, which many of its people would oppose, while legalising a narrow range of assistive acts for some of those seeking help to end their lives.\n\nIn July 2009, British conductor Sir Edward Downes and his wife Joan died together at a suicide clinic outside Zürich \"under circumstances of their own choosing\". Sir Edward was not terminally ill, but his wife was diagnosed with rapidly developing cancer.\n\nIn March 2010, the PBS FRONTLINE TV program in the United States showed a documentary called \"The Suicide Tourist\" which told the story of Professor Craig Ewert, his family, and Dignitas, and their decision to commit assisted suicide using sodium pentobarbital in Switzerland after he was diagnosed and suffering with ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease).\n\nIn May 2011, Zurich held a referendum that asked voters whether (i) assisted suicide should be prohibited outright; and (ii) whether Dignitas and other assisted suicide providers should not admit overseas users. Zurich voters heavily rejected both bans, despite anti-euthanasia lobbying from two Swiss social conservative political parties, the Evangelical People's Party of Switzerland and Federal Democratic Union. The outright ban proposal was rejected by 84% of voters, while 78% voted to keep services open should overseas users require them.\n\nIn June 2011, The BBC televised the assisted suicide of Peter Smedley, a canning factory owner, who was suffering from motor neurone disease. The programme – \"Sir Terry Pratchett's Choosing To Die\" – told the story of Peter's journey to the end where he used The Dignitas Clinic, a euthanasia clinic in Switzerland, to assist him in carrying out the taking of his own life.\nThe programme shows Peter eating chocolates to counter the unpalatable taste of the liquid he drinks to end his own life. Moments after drinking the liquid, Peter begged for water, gasped for breath and became red, he then fell into a deep sleep where he snored heavily while holding his wife's hand. Minutes later, Peter stopped breathing and his heart stopped beating.\n\nIn Switzerland non-physician-assisted suicide is legal, the assistance mostly being provided by volunteers, whereas in Belgium and the Netherlands, a physician must be present. In Switzerland, the doctors are primarily there to assess the patient's decision capacity and prescribe the lethal drugs. Additionally, unlike cases in the United States, a person is not required to have a terminal illness but only the capacity to make decisions. About 25% of people in Switzerland who take advantage of assisted suicide do not have a terminal illness but are simply old or \"tired of life.\"\n\nAssisted suicide, while criminal, does not appear to have caused any convictions, as article 37 of the Penal Code (effective 1934) states: \"The judges are authorized to forego punishment of a person whose previous life has been honorable where he commits a homicide motivated by compassion, induced by repeated requests of the victim.\"\n\nDeliberately assisting a suicide is illegal. Between 2003 and 2006 Lord Joffe made four attempts to introduce bills that would have legalised assisted suicide in England & Wales—all were rejected by the UK Parliament. In the meantime the Director of Public Prosecutions has clarified the criteria under which an individual will be prosecuted in England and Wales for assisting in another person's suicide. These have not been tested by an appellate court as yet\nIn 2014 Lord Falconer of Thoroton tabled an Assisted Dying Bill in the House of Lords which passed its Second Reading but ran out of time before the General Election. During its passage peers voted down two amendments which were proposed by opponents of the Bill. In 2015 Labour MP Rob Marris introduced another Bill, based on the Falconer proposals, in the House of Commons. The Second Reading was the first time the House was able to vote on the issue since 1997. A Populus poll had found that 82% of the British public agreed with the proposals of Lord Falconer's Assisted Dying Bill. However, in a free vote on 11 September 2015, only 118 MPs were in favour and 330 against, thus defeating the bill.\n\nUnlike the other jurisdictions in the United Kingdom, suicide was not illegal in Scotland before 1961 (and still is not) thus no associated offences were created in imitation. Depending on the actual nature of any assistance given to a suicide, the offences of murder or culpable homicide might be committed or there might be no offence at all; the nearest modern prosecutions bearing comparison might be those where a culpable homicide conviction has been obtained when drug addicts have died unintentionally after being given \"hands on\" non-medical assistance with an injection. Modern law regarding the assistance of someone who intends to die has a lack of certainty as well as a lack of relevant case law; this has led to attempts to introduce statutes providing more certainty.\n\nIndependent MSP Margo MacDonald's \"End of Life Assistance Bill\" was brought before the Scottish Parliament to permit assisted suicide in January 2010. The Catholic Church and the Church of Scotland, the largest denomination in Scotland, opposed the bill. The bill was rejected by a vote of 85–16 (with 2 abstentions) in December 2010.\n\nThe Assisted Suicide (Scotland) Bill was introduced on 13 November 2013 by the late Margo MacDonald MSP and was taken up by Patrick Harvie MSP on Ms MacDonald's death. The Bill entered the main committee scrutiny stage in January 2015 and reached a vote in Parliament several months later; however the bill was again rejected.\n\nAssisted death is legal in the American states of Colorado, Hawaii, California (via the California End of Life Option Act), Oregon (via the Oregon Death with Dignity Act), Washington (Washington Death with Dignity Act), and Vermont (Patient Choice and Control at End of Life Act). In Montana (through the 2009 trial court ruling \"Baxter v. Montana\"), the court found no public policy against assisting suicide, so consent may be raised as a defense at trial. Oregon and Washington specify some restrictions. It was briefly legal in New Mexico from 2014, but this verdict was overturned in 2015.\n\nOregon requires a physician to prescribe drugs but, it must be self-administered. For the patient to be eligible, the patient must be diagnosed by an attending physician as well as by a consulting physician, with a terminal illness that will cause the death of the individual within six months. The law states that, in order to participate, a patient must be: 1) 18 years of age or older, 2) a resident of Oregon, 3) capable of making and communicating health care decisions for him/herself, and 4) diagnosed with a terminal illness that will lead to death within six months. It is up to the attending physician to determine whether these criteria have been met. It is required the patient orally request the medication at least twice and contribute at least one (1) written request. The physician must notify the patient of alternatives; such as palliative care, hospice and pain management. Lastly the physician is to request but not require the patient to notify their next of kin that they are requesting a prescription for a lethal dose of medication. Assuming all guidelines are met and the patient is deemed competent and completely sure they wish to end their life, the physician will prescribe the drugs.\n\nThe law was passed in 1997. As of 2013, a total of 1,173 people had had DWDA prescriptions written and 752 patients had died from ingesting drugs prescribed under the DWDA. In 2013, there were approximately 22 assisted deaths per 10,000 total deaths in Oregon.\n\nWashington's rules and restrictions are similar, if not exactly the same, as Oregon's. Not only does the patient have to meet the above criteria, they also have to be examined by not one, but two doctors licensed in their state of residence. Both doctors must come to the same conclusion about the patient's prognosis. If one doctor does not see the patient fit for the prescription, then the patient must undergo psychological inspection to tell whether or not the patient is in fact capable and mentally fit to make the decision of assisted death or not.\n\nIn May 2013, Vermont became the fourth state in the union to legalize medical aid-in-dying. Vermont's House of Representatives voted 75–65 to approve the bill, Patient Choice and Control at End of Life Act. This bill states that the qualifying patient must be at least 18, a Vermont resident and suffering from an incurable and irreversible disease, with less than six months to live. Also, two physicians, including the prescribing doctor must make the medical determination.\n\nIn January 2014, it seemed as though New Mexico had inched closer to being the fifth state in the United States to legalize assisted suicide via a court ruling. \"This court cannot envision a right more fundamental, more private or more integral to the liberty, safety and happiness of a New Mexican than the right of a competent, terminally ill patient to choose aid in dying,\" wrote Judge Nan G. Nash of the Second District Court in Albuquerque. The NM attorney general's office said it was studying the decision and whether to appeal to the State Supreme Court. However, this was overturned on August 11, 2015 by the New Mexico Court of Appeals, in a 2-1 ruling, that overturned the Bernalillo County District Court Ruling. The Court gave the verdict: \"We conclude that aid in dying is not a fundamental liberty interest under the New Mexico Constitution\".\n\nIn November 2016, the citizens of Colorado approved Proposition 106, the Colorado End of Life Options Act, with 65% in favor. This made it the third state to legalize medical aid-in-dying by a vote of the people, raising the total to six states.\n\nThe punishment for participating in physician-assisted death (PAD) varies throughout many states. The state of Wyoming does not “recognize common law crimes and does not have a statute specifically prohibiting assisted suicide”. In Florida, “every person deliberately assisting another in the commission of self-murder shall be guilty of manslaughter, a felony of the second degree”.\n\nStates currently considering assisted suicide laws\n\nAlaska, Arizona, Connecticut, Delaware, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah, and Wisconsin.\n\nWashington vs. Glucksberg\n\nIn Washington, physician-assisted suicide did not become legal until 2008. In 1997, four Washington physicians and three terminally ill patients brought forth a lawsuit that would challenge the ban on medical aid in dying that was in place at the time. This lawsuit was first part of a district court hearing, where it ruled in favor of Glucksberg, which was the group of physicians and terminally ill patients. The lawsuit was then affirmed by the Ninth Circuit. Thus, it was taken to the Supreme Court, and there the Supreme Court decided to grant Washington certiorari. Eventually, the Supreme Court decided, with a unanimous vote, that medical aid in dying was not a protected right under the constitution as of the time of this case. The laws and arguments on this topic are often argued and changed depending on legal evaluation and decision.\n\nA highly publicized case in the United States was the death of Brittany Maynard in 2014. After being diagnosed with terminal brain cancer, Maynard decided that instead of suffering with the side effects the cancer would bring, she wanted to choose when she would die. She was residing in California when she was diagnosed, where assisted death was not legal. She and her husband moved to Oregon where assisted death was legal, so she could take advantage of the program. Before her death, she started the Brittany Maynard fund, which works to legalize the choice of ending one's life in cases of a terminal illness. Her public advocacy motivated her family to continue to try and get assisted death laws passed in all 50 states.\n\nA study approved by the Dutch Ministry of Health, the Dutch Ministry of Justice, and the Royal Dutch Medical Association reviewed the efficacy in cases of physician-aided dying (PAD).These studies, conducted in the Netherlands in 1990, 1991, 1995 and 1996 totaling 649 cases of which 114 cases were physician-assisted suicide and 535 were euthanasia, showed complications of any category were of higher frequency in cases of assisted suicide than in cases of euthanasia. This showed that 32% of cases had complications. These included 12% with time to death longer than expected (45 min – 14 days), 9% with problems administering the required drugs, 9% with a physical symptom (e.g. nausea, vomiting, myoclonus) and 2% waking from coma. In 18% of cases the doctors provided euthanasia because of problems or failures with PAD.\n\nThe Portland (Oregon) Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the Department of Psychiatry at the Oregon Health and Science University set out to assess the prevalence of depression in 58 patients who had chosen PAD. Of 15 patients who went to receive PAD, three (20%) had a clinical depression. All patients who participated in the study were determined in advance to be mentally competent. The authors conclude that the \"...current practice of the (Oregon) Death with Dignity Act may fail to protect some patients whose choices are influenced by depression from receiving a prescription for a lethal drug\".\n\nIn a Dutch study of patients with severe and persistent symptoms requiring sedation, the researchers found that only 9% of patients received a palliative care consultation prior to being sedated.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1995 a group of doctors in the Netherlands interviewed and studied physicians in charge of giving patients the life ending drugs used in assisted suicide cases. They found that from 1990 to 1995 the use of this method rose slightly as more patients were turning to assisted suicide as an end of life option. From 1990 to 1995 the number of deaths from assisted suicide methods had risen from 486 in 1990 to 1466 in 1995. When interviewing these physicians they found that 88% had been asked for the life ending drugs and 77% reported they had asked for the drugs at a specific time. They also discovered there was a number of physicians equal to about 0.7% who had given their patients these life ending drugs without the patient's explicit consent.\n\nMore research can be found on the website of Living and Dying Well UK, an organization which researches and analyzes evidence surrounding end-of-life issues.\n\n\nIn the American television series House, assisted suicide is mentioned multiple times. The character Allison Cameron assisted in the death of a patient in the episode Informed Consent after its revealed he has a terminal condition. In the episode Known Unknowns, Dr. Wilson, an oncologist, reveals he indirectly provided a patient dying from cancer the code to increase his morphine level to a lethal amount leading to the patients death. In the episode The Dig, Thirteen reveals she assisted her brother in his suicide who was suffering from advanced symptoms of Huntington's disease and that was she was sent to prison for overprescribing. In the same episode, House promises to assist her in killing herself once her own Huntington's symptoms get too bad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2515387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515387", "title": "Australian Breastfeeding Association", "text": "Australian Breastfeeding Association\n\nThe Australian Breastfeeding Association (ABA) is an Australian organisation interested in the promotion of breastfeeding and protection of nursing mothers. Members of ABA include nursing mothers and their partners as well as health professionals such as doctors, lactation consultants and midwives.\n\nABA was founded in Melbourne, Victoria in 1964 as the Nursing Mothers' Association, with the aim of giving mother-to-mother support to breastfeeding women. It is Australia's leading source of breastfeeding information and support.\n\nThe association is supported by health authorities and specialists in infant and child health and nutrition, including a panel of honorary advisers. \n\nMary Paton founded the Nursing Mothers' Association with five other mothers in Melbourne after having difficulty breastfeeding her first child. There was a lack of support and accurate information about breastfeeding. Doctors and nurses at the time were not trained to handle breastfeeding problems and with the modern nuclear family there were few older women to turn to for advice, so the founding members supported each other, thus creating the model for mother-to-mother support than continues today. The other founders were Glenise Francis, Pat Patterson, Jan Barry (a member of the Coles family), Pauline Pick and Sue Woods.\n\nThe first meeting was held in Melbourne at Mary Paton's house on 13 February 1964 and the first newsletter was published later that year. Initially based primarily in Victoria, the ABA gradually spread to other states and territories with state representatives for the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, Western Australia appointed in 1969, the national headquarters set up in Hawthorn, Victoria in 1970, and groups established in South Australia and Tasmania in 1971. The ABA had over 10,000 members by 1973. \n\nIn 2001, NMAA changed its name to Australian Breastfeeding Association. As at 2016, over 350,000 people have been members.\n\nThe ABA has groups across Australia which hold discussion meetings for mothers. Breastfeeding education seminars are run for expectant parents; community education continues through all levels of education from pre-school to tertiary and members visits mothers in hospital to introduce the association and its services. ABA holds seminars and conferences for health professionals. The ABA is a Registered Training Organisation and provides training in breastfeeding counselling and community education. On 20 March 2009, a national breastfeeding helpline was launched to improve on the previous state-level helplines. This helpline is staffed by volunteers who have completed the ABA's training.\n\nIn 2015 the ABA launched the Breastfeeding Friendly Environments program to provide support to mothers returning to work.\n\nIn Australia, during January 2014, Melbourne tech startup Small World Social collaborated with the Australian Breastfeeding Association to create the first hands-free breastfeeding Google Glass application for new mothers. The application, named Google Glass Breastfeeding app trial, allows mothers to nurse their baby while viewing instructions about common breastfeeding issues (latching on, posture etc.) or call a lactation consultant via a secure Google Hangout, who can view the issue through the mother's Google Glass camera. The trial was successfully concluded in Melbourne in April 2014, and 100% of participants were breastfeeding confidently. Small World Social Breasfteeding Support Project\n\nA Sunday Mail news story in August 2012 reported that during an Australian Breastfeeding Association class the undercover reporter was told a baby died \"every 30 seconds\" from formula and \"Formula is a little bit like AIDS,\". The association launched an internal investigation soon afterwards and in a media statement on 29 August 2012 said the \"comments reported in the media are not the view of the association and the counsellor involved has been stood down from all duties\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4385436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4385436", "title": "Blainey v Ontario Hockey Association", "text": "Blainey v Ontario Hockey Association\n\nBlainey v Ontario Hockey Association (1986) 54 O.R. (2d) 513 is a famous decision of the Court of Appeal for Ontario on the relationship between the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" and the Ontario Human Rights Code. The Court held that Human Rights Codes in general are statutes and so must conform with the \"Charter\".\n\nJustine Blainey was excluded from playing in the boys hockey league by the Ontario Hockey Association. She was unable to bring a claim against the OHA because the Ontario Human Rights Code contained a provision that allowed male-only sports teams and since the OHA was a private organization the \"Charter\" did not apply to it. Instead she challenged the constitutionality of the provision of the Human Rights Code as a violation of the equality provision of the \"Charter\".\n\nThe Court held that the exception for sports teams violated section 15 of the \"Charter\" in a way that could not be justified under section 1, and struck down the provision. \n\nThe crown sided with Blainey as the Ontario Hockey Association was in violation of section 15 of the charter of rights and freedoms. Justine Blainey was later included in the division. Although they were content with the verdict, Blainey got levelled in her first game and was out for the season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1957239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957239", "title": "Central Regional Dental Testing Service", "text": "Central Regional Dental Testing Service\n\nCentral Regional Dental Testing Service (CRDTS) is one of five examination agencies for dentists in the United States. The other examination agencies are, West Regional Examining Board, Northeast Regional Board of Dental Examiners, Southern Regional Testing Agency, and Council of Interstate Testing Agencies. These were organized to standardize clinical exams for licensure.\n\nMember states that help create the exam are: Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Carolina, South Dakota, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.\n\nOther states that accept the exam for licensure: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado Connecticut, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming, and Vermont.\n\n"}
{"id": "36107188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36107188", "title": "Chronic radiation syndrome", "text": "Chronic radiation syndrome\n\nChronic radiation syndrome is a constellation of health effects of radiation that occur after months or years of chronic exposure to high amounts. Chronic radiation syndrome develops with a speed and severity proportional to the radiation dose received, i.e., it is a deterministic effect of exposure to ionizing radiation, unlike radiation-induced cancer. It is distinct from acute radiation syndrome in that it occurs at dose rates low enough to permit natural repair mechanisms to compete with the radiation damage during the exposure period. Dose rates high enough to cause the acute form (> ~0.1 Gy/h) are fatal long before onset of the chronic form. The lower threshold for chronic radiation syndrome is between 0.7 and 1.5 Gy, at dose rates above 0.1 Gy/yr. This condition is primarily known from the Kyshtym disaster, where 66 cases were diagnosed, and has received little mention in Western literature. A future ICRP publication, currently in draft, may recognize the condition but with higher thresholds.\n\nIn 2013, Alexander V. Akleyev described the chronology of the clinical course or CRS while presenting at ConRad in Munich, Germany. In his presentation, he defined the latent period as being 1-5 years, and the formation coinciding with the period of maximum radiation dose. The recovery period was described as being 3-12 months after exposure ceased. He concluded that \"CRS represents a systemic response of the body as a whole to the chronic total body exposure in man.\" In 2014, Akleyev's book \"Comprehensive analysis of chronic radiation syndrome, covering epidemiology, pathogenesis, pathoanatomy, diagnosis and treatment\" was published by Springer.\n"}
{"id": "18022644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18022644", "title": "Decontamination", "text": "Decontamination\n\nDecontamination (sometimes abbreviated as decon, dcon, or decontam) is the process of cleansing an object or substance to remove contaminants such as micro-organisms or hazardous materials, including chemicals, radioactive substances, and infectious diseases.\n\nThe purpose of decontamination is to prevent the spread of micro-organisms and other noxious contaminants that may threaten the health of human beings or animals, or damage the environment.\n\nDecontamination is most commonly used in medical environments, including dentistry, surgery and veterinary science, in the process of food preparation, in environmental science, and in forensic science.\n\nMethods of decontamination include:\n\nA variety of decontaminant methods may be used, including physical processes such as distillation, and chemical washes such as alcohols and detergents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2733733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2733733", "title": "Delayed gratification", "text": "Delayed gratification\n\nDelayed gratification, or deferred gratification, describes the process that the subject undergoes when the subject resists the temptation of an immediate reward in preference for a later reward. Generally, delayed gratification is associated with resisting a smaller but more immediate reward in order to receive a larger or more enduring reward later. A growing body of literature has linked the ability to delay gratification to a host of other positive outcomes, including academic success, physical health, psychological health, and social competence.\n\nA person's ability to delay gratification relates to other similar skills such as patience, impulse control, self-control and willpower, all of which are involved in self-regulation. Broadly, self-regulation encompasses a person's capacity to adapt the self as necessary to meet demands of the environment. Delaying gratification is the reverse of delay discounting, which is \"the preference for smaller immediate rewards over larger but delayed rewards\" and refers to the \"fact that the subjective value of reward decreases with increasing delay to its receipt\". It is theorized that the ability to delay rewards is under the control of the cognitive-affective personality system (CAPS).\n\nSeveral factors can affect a person's ability to delay gratification. Cognitive strategies, such as the use of distracting or \"cool\" thoughts, can increase delay ability, as can neurological factors, such as strength of connections in the frontal-striatal pathway. Behavioral researchers have focused on the contingencies that govern choices to delay reinforcement, and have studied how to manipulate those contingencies in order to lengthen delay. Age plays a role too; children under five years old demonstrate a marked lack of delayed gratification ability and most commonly seek immediate gratification. A very small difference between males and females suggest that females may be better at delaying rewards. The ability to wait or seek immediate reinforcement is related to avoidance-related behaviors such as procrastination, and to other clinical diagnoses such as anxiety, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and depression.\n\nSigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalytic theory, discussed the ego's role in balancing the immediate pleasure-driven desires of the id with the morality-driven choices of the superego. Funder and Block expanded psychoanalytic research on the topic, and found that impulsivity, or a lack of ego-control, has a stronger effect on one's ability to delay rewards if a reward is more desirable. Finally, environmental and social factors play a role; for example, delay is affected by the self-imposed or external nature of a reward contingency, by the degree of task engagement required during the delay, by early mother-child relationship characteristics, by a person's previous experiences with unreliable promises of rewards (e.g., in poverty), and by contemporary sociocultural expectations and paradigms. Research on animals comprises another body of literature describing delayed gratification characteristics that are not as easily tested in human samples, such as ecological factors affecting the skill.\n\nOne well-supported theory of self-regulation, called the Cognitive-affective personality system (CAPS), suggests that delaying gratification results from an ability to use \"cool\" regulatory strategies (i.e., calm, controlled and cognitive strategies) over \"hot regulatory strategies (i.e., emotional, impulsive, automatic reactions), when faced with provocation. In \"hot\" processing, a person thinks intently about the object causing temptation, and especially about its most appealing elements, and is subsequently less able to resist the immediate reward. The use of cool strategies can translate to more control over behavior. Effective \"cool\" strategies involve distraction and restructuring the perception of the tempting stimulus to make it seem less appealing. For example, in one study of pre-adolescent boys with behavioral problems, the boys showed a reduction in verbal and physical aggression when they used \"cool\" strategies, such as looking away or distracting themselves. The most effective type of distraction seems to be imagining another desirable reward, which takes attention away from the immediate temptations.\n\nThe seminal research on delayed gratification – the now-famous \"marshmallow experiment\" – was conducted by Walter Mischel in the 1960s and 1970s at Stanford University. Mischel and his colleagues were interested in strategies that preschool children used to resist temptation. They presented four-year-olds with a marshmallow and told the children that they had two options: (1) ring a bell at any point to summon the experimenter and eat the marshmallow, or (2) wait until the experimenter returned (about 15 minutes later), and earn two marshmallows. The message was: \"small reward now, bigger reward later.\" Some children broke down and ate the marshmallow, whereas others were able to delay gratification and earn the coveted two marshmallows. In follow-up experiments, Mischel found that children were able to wait longer if they used certain \"cool\" distraction techniques (covering their eyes, hiding under the desk, singing songs, or imagining pretzels instead of the marshmallow in front of them), or if they changed the way they thought about the marshmallow (focusing on its similarity to a cotton ball, rather than on its gooey, delectable taste).\n\nThe children who waited longer, when re-evaluated as teenagers and adults, demonstrated a striking array of advantages over their peers. As teenagers, they had higher SAT scores, social competence, self-assuredness and self-worth, and were rated by their parents as more mature, better able to cope with stress, more likely to plan ahead, and more likely to use reason. They were less likely to have conduct disorders or high levels of impulsivity, aggressiveness and hyperactivity. As adults, the high delayers were less likely to have drug problems or other addictive behaviors, get divorced, or be overweight. Each minute that a preschooler was able to delay gratification translated to a .2% reduction in Body Mass Index 30 years later.\n\nEach of these positive outcomes requires some ability to forgo short-term reward in favor of a higher payoff in the future. The ability to delay gratification also appears to be a buffer against rejection sensitivity (the tendency to be anxious when anticipating interpersonal rejection). In a 20-year follow-up of the marshmallow experiment, individuals with vulnerability to high rejection sensitivity who had shown strong delay of gratification abilities as preschoolers had higher self-esteem and self-worth and more adaptive coping skills, in comparison to the individuals who had high rejection sensitivity but low delay of gratification as four-year-olds. These compelling longitudinal findings converge with other studies showing a similar pattern: The ability to resist temptation early in life translates to persistent benefits across settings.\n\nForty years after the first marshmallow test studies, neuroimaging data has shed light on the neural correlates of delayed gratification. A team led by B. J. Casey, of Cornell University, recruited 59 of the original participants – who are now in their mid-40s – and gave them a delayed gratification task. Instead of resisting marshmallows, these adults were instructed to suppress responses to images of happy faces, but not to neutral or fearful faces. Those who had been high delayers as pre-schoolers were more successful at controlling their impulses in response to the emotional faces (i.e., not pressing the button in response to happy faces), suggesting that the high delayers continued to show better ability to dampen or resist impulses. Casey and colleagues also scanned the brains of 26 participants using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as they completed the task. The researchers hypothesized that high delayers would be more likely to use \"cool\" regulation strategies to control their responses, which would manifest as activation of the right prefrontal cortex, whereas low delayers would use \"hot\" strategies, which would activate the ventral striatum, an area also linked to addiction. Indeed, results showed this differential brain activity. This mirrors other fMRI research of delayed gratification conducted by Noah Shamosh and Jeremy Gray, of Yale University, demonstrating that individuals who chose larger delayed rewards over smaller immediate rewards (in hypothetical situations) showed greater brain activation in the anterior prefrontal cortex.\n\nThe way that a person frames a situation heavily influences a decision's outcome. Research on \"hot\" and \"cool\" strategies suggests that when children cognitively represent what they are waiting for as a real reward by focusing on the reward's arousing, \"hot\" qualities (taste, smell, sound,feel, etc.) their self-control and delay of gratification decreases, while directing attention to a symbol of the reward by focusing on its abstract, \"cool\" qualities (shape, color, number, etc.), can enhance self-control and increase the delay. Optimal self-control and the longest delay to gratification can be achieved by directing attention to a competing item, especially the arousing, \"hot\" qualities of a competing item. For example, delays are increased when thinking about the taste and smell of popcorn while waiting to eat candy. This illustrates an individual's ability to manipulate his/her cognitive representation of external stimuli for goal-directed purposes.\n\nDelaying gratification is the same as controlling the impulse for immediate gratification, which requires cognitive control. The ventral striatum, located in the midbrain, is the part of the limbic system that is the reward center as well as a pleasure center. The limbic system will always react to the potential for instant pleasure. To override this instinct, the prefrontal cortex, which is also associated with reasoning and rational thought, must be active. The prefrontal cortex is also the part of the brain that determines the focus of a person's attention, which enables a better framing that facilitates delayed gratification. During adolescence and early adulthood, the prefrontal cortex develops and matures to become more complicated and connected with the rest of the brain. Older children and adults find the deferment-of-gratification tasks easier than do young children for this reason. However, the relative ability to defer gratification remains stable throughout development. Children who can better control impulses grow up to be adults who also have better control. Practicing deferred gratification is quite beneficial to cognitive abilities throughout life.\n\nBehaviorists focus on the acquisition and teaching of delayed gratification, and have developed therapeutic techniques for increasing ability to delay. Behavior analysts capitalize on the effective principles of reinforcement when shaping behavior by making rewards contingent on the person's current behavior, which promotes learning a delay of gratification. It is important to note that for a behavior modification regimen to succeed, the reward must have some value to the participant. Without a reward that is meaningful, providing delayed or immediate gratification serves little purpose, as the reward is not a strong reinforcer of the desired behavior.\n\nBehavior theorists see delaying gratification as an adaptive skill. It has been shown that learning to delay gratification promotes positive social behavior, such as sharing and positive peer interactions. For example, students who learn to delay gratification are better able to complete their assigned activities. To put it simply, if someone undertakes an activity with the promise of a delayed reward after, the task's completion becomes more likely.\n\nBehavioral researchers have found that a choice for instant versus delayed gratification is influenced by several factors including whether the reward is negative or positive reinforcement. A past study by Solnick et al., focused on an experiment where the main concentrations were time added to both conditions and the preference of the participants with experiencing a loud noise for variable amounts of time: 15, 30, 60, and 90 seconds. The buttons to turn off the noise were manipulated by one button turning off the noise for a short amount of time and the other turning the noise off for an extended time. The participants were found to be more willing to turn off the noise immediately for 90 seconds rather than turning it off for the 120 seconds after a 60-second delay was issued. Findings illustrate that participants chose not to delay their gratification for the relief of noise but rather instantly silence it for a shorter amount of time.\n\nIn a 2011 study, researchers tested to see if people would willingly choose between instant and delayed gratification by offering them a set amount of (hypothetical) money that they could receive presently, or telling them they could wait a month for more money. Results suggested that willingness to delay gratification depended on the amount of money being offered, but also showed wide individual variation in the threshold of later reward that was motivating enough to forgo the immediate reward. The subjective value of a reward can also stem from the way one describes the potential reward. As prospect theory states, people are heavily loss-averse. People tend to value a commodity more when it is considered to be something that can be lost or given up than when it is evaluated as a potential gain.\n\nThe duration of time until an eventual reward also affects participants' choice of immediate or delayed gratification. A 2001 study demonstrated that if a reward will not be granted for an extensive amount of time, such as 180–300 months (15–25 years), the monetary amount of the reward is inconsequential; instead, the bulk of the participants choose the immediate reward, even if their delayed reward would be quite large. Delayed gratification has its limits, and a delay can only be so long before it is judged to be not worth the effort it takes to wait.\n\nIn a Year 3 elementary classroom in South Wales a teacher was having difficulty keeping three girls on task during designated private study times. The teacher reached for aid from behavior analysts, and a delayed gratification behavior modification plan was put into place. The study gave limits on the numbers of questions the children could ask, and if they did not exceed the limit, they were given tokens for rewards. The token economy for rewards is an example of delayed gratification, by way of cool processing. Instead of having the girls focus on attention-seeking behaviors that distracted the teacher and the students, the teacher had them focus on how many questions they had, and if they needed to ask for help from the teacher. They also focused on gaining tokens rather than focusing on the final reward, which increased their delays. By giving the children this goal and the promise of positive reinforcement for good behavior, the girls dropped their rate of question-asking and attention-seeking.\n\nCompared to neurotypical children, those with ADHD generally demonstrate greater impulsivity by being influenced by reward immediacy and quality more than by the frequency of reward and effort to obtain it. However, researchers have empirically shown that these impulsive behavior patterns can be changed through the implementation of a simple self-control training procedure in which reinforcer immediacy competes with the frequency, quantity or saliency of the reward, and the delay is gradually increased. One study demonstrated that any verbal activity while waiting for reinforcement increases delay to gratification in participants with ADHD. In another study, three children diagnosed with ADHD and demonstrating impulsivity were trained to prefer reward rate and saliency more than immediacy through manipulation of the quality of the reinforcers and by systematically increasing the delay with a changing-criterion design. Post-assessment of the children illustrated that self-control can transfer to untrained dimensions of reinforcement; such as an increase in quality over immediacy preference due to direct training resulting in an increase in quantity over immediacy preference.\n\nAt birth, infants are unable to wait for their wants and needs to be met and exhibit a defining lack of impulse control. With age, developing children are able to retain impulsivity but also gain control over their immediate desires and are increasingly able to prolong gratification. Developmental psychologists study the progression of impulse control and delay of gratification over the lifespan, including deficiencies in development that are closely related to attention deficits and behavior problems.\n\nChildren under five years old display the least effective strategies for delaying gratification, such as looking at the reward and thinking about its arousing features. By 5 years old, most children are able to demonstrate better self-control by recognizing the counter-productivity of focusing on the reward. Five-year-olds often choose instead to actively distract themselves or even use self-instructions to remind themselves of the contingency that waiting produces a reward of a greater value. Between 8 and 13 years old, children develop the cognitive ability to differentiate and employ abstract versus arousing thoughts in order to distract their minds from the reward and thereby increase the delay. Once delaying strategies are developed, the capacity to resist temptation is relatively stable throughout adulthood. Preschoolers' performance on delayed gratification tasks correlates with their adolescent performance on tasks designed to measure similar constructs and processing, which parallels the corresponding development of willpower and the fronto-striatal circuit (neural pathways that connect the frontal lobe to other brain regions). Declines in self-regulation and impulse control in old age predict corresponding declines in reward-delaying strategies, specifically reduced temporal discounting due to a decrease in cooling strategies.\n\nThroughout 33 studies on gender differences, a small significant effect (r = .06) has been found indicating that a base-rate of 10% more females are able to delay rewards than males, which is the typical percentage of difference found between the sexes on measures such as personality or social behavior. This effect may be related to the slight gender differences found in delay discounting (i.e., minimizing the value of a delayed reward) and higher levels of impulsivity and inattention in boys. Further studies are needed to analyze if this minute difference begins at a certain age (e.g., puberty) or if it has a stable magnitude throughout the lifespan. Some researchers suggest this gender difference may correspond with a mother's tendency to sacrifice her wants and needs in order to meet those of her child more frequently than a father does.\n\nSelf-control has been called the \"master virtue\" by clinical and social psychologists, suggesting that the ability to delay gratification plays a critical role in a person's overall psychological adjustment. People with better ability to delay gratification report higher wellbeing, self-esteem and openness to experience, as well as more productive ways of responding to anger and other provocations. Early delay ability has been shown to protect against the development of a variety of emotional vulnerabilities later in life, such as aggression and features of borderline personality disorder. Meanwhile, many maladaptive coping skills that characterize mental illness entail a difficulty delaying gratification. The tendency to choose short-term rewards at the expense of longer-term benefits permeates many forms of psychopathology.\n\nA growing body of research suggests that self-control is akin to a muscle that can be strengthened through practice. In other words, self-control abilities are malleable, a fact that can be a source of hope for those who struggle with this skill. In psychotherapy, treatment for impulse-control issues often involves teaching individuals to realize the downsides of acting on immediate urges and in turn to practice delaying gratification. In anxiety disorders, this process occurs through exposure to a feared situation – which is very uncomfortable at first, but eventually becomes tolerable and even trains a person's mind and body that these situations are less threatening than originally feared. Exposure therapy is only effective if an individual can delay gratification and resist the urge to escape the situation early on. To shed insight on the tradeoff between short- and long-term gains, therapists might also help individuals construct a pro-con list of a certain behavior, with sections for short-term and long-term outcomes. For maladaptive coping behaviors such as self-injury, substance use or avoidance, there are generally no long-term pros. Meanwhile, abstinence from acting on a harmful urge (i.e., delayed gratification) generally results in long-term benefits. This realization can be a powerful impetus for change.\n\nExternalizing disorders (i.e., acting-out disorders) show a clearer link to delayed gratification, since they more directly involve deficits in impulse control. For example, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and aggressive behavior are associated with difficulty delaying gratification in children and adolescents, as are substance abuse, gambling, and other addictive behaviors in adolescents and adults. In a 2010 study, teenagers and young adults with stronger abilities to delay gratification were less likely to drink alcohol, or to smoke cigarettes or cannabis. A 2011 study found that the contrast in delayed gratification between children with and without ADHD was no longer significant after statistically controlling for IQ (in other words, ADHD was not associated with delayed gratification above and beyond the influence of IQ). This may stem from the high correlation between intelligence and delayed gratification, and suggests that the tie between delayed gratification and ADHD could benefit from more investigation.\n\nDifficulty delaying gratification also plays a role in internalizing disorders like anxiety and depression. A hallmark behavior in anxiety is avoidance of feared or anxiety-provoking situations. By seeking the immediate relief that comes with avoidance, a person is succumbing to the pull of instant gratification over the larger reward from overcoming the fear and anxiety that caused the avoidance. Procrastination, which is often a reflection of anxiety, is a clear example: a person avoids a dreaded task by engaging in a more enjoyable immediate activity instead. Obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) is a more jarring case of this anxiety-related struggle to delay gratification; someone with OCD is unable to resist compulsions that temporarily mitigate the torture of obsessive thoughts, even though these compulsions do not banish the obsessions in the long run. One experiment, however, did not find any significant differences between samples with OCD and healthy controls in delayed gratification, while finding substantially improved delayed gratification among those with obsessive–compulsive personality disorder. Depression is also associated with lower capacity to delay gratification, though the direction of cause and effect is not clear. A depressed person who has difficulty pushing him or herself to engage in previously enjoyed activities is (deliberately or not) prioritizing short-term comfort and is demonstrating an impaired ability to delay gratification. There is evidence that individuals who engage in deliberate self-harm (i.e., cut themselves) are less able to tolerate emotional distress but are more able to tolerate physical pain. Thus it is argued that they injure themselves because they cannot delay gratification and need a way to end emotional pain quickly.\n\nSigmund Freud viewed the struggle to delay gratification as a person's efforts to overcome the instinctive, libidinal drive of the id. According to classic psychoanalytic theory, a person's psyche is composed of the id, ego and superego. The id is driven by the pleasure principle: it wants physical pleasure, and it wants it now. The ego, operating under the reality principle, serves to moderate the id's desire for instant gratification against the superego, which is guided by a person's internalized sense of morality. According to psychoanalytic theory, a person with difficulty delaying gratification is plagued by intrapsychic conflict – the ego cannot adequately regulate the battle between the id and the superego – and experiences psychological distress, often in the form of anxiety or \"neurosis\".\n\nOther psychoanalytic researchers describe a more nuanced, and less universally positive, view of delayed gratification. David C. Funder and Jack Block theorized that a person's tendency to delay, or not delay, gratification is just one element of a broader construct called ego control, defined as a person's ability to modulate or control impulses. Ego control \"ranges from ego undercontrol at one end to ego overcontrol at the other\", according to Funder. These tendencies are thought to be relatively stable in each individual, such that someone who tends toward undercontrol will \"grab whatever rewards are immediately available even at the cost of long-term gain\" and someone who tends toward overcontrol will \"delay or even forgo pleasures even when they can be had without cost\". By this view, delay of gratification may be adaptive in certain settings, but inappropriate or even costly in other settings.\n\nFunder and Block draw a distinction between the ego-control model, in which delayed gratification is seen as a general tendency to contain motivational impulses (whether or not it is adaptive in a specific instance), and the ego-resiliency model (supported by Mischel's research), in which delayed gratification is seen as a skill that arises only when it is adaptive. To tease apart these models, Funder and Block explored the association between ego control, ego resiliency, IQ and delayed gratification in adolescents. The adolescents had the choice between being paid $4 at each of six study sessions or delaying their payment until the last session, in which case they would also earn an addition $4 of \"interest\". The results supported both models of delayed gratification. The teens' tendency to delay gratification was indeed associated with IQ and with ego resiliency (e.g., higher delayers were rated as more responsible, consistent, likable, sympathetic, generous; less hostile, moody, self-indulgent, rebellious), but was also independently associated with ego control (e.g., higher delayers were rated as \"tends toward over-control of needs and impulses\" and \"favors conservative values in a number of areas\"). The researchers noted that individual differences in ego control (i.e., overall impulsivity) may play a larger role in delayed gratification when the incentives are larger and more motivating.\n\nWriting in 1998, Funder described delayed gratification as a \"mixed bag\". He concluded: \"Participants who exhibited the most delay were not just 'better' at self-control, but in a sense they seemed unable to avoid it. [...] Delayers are in general smart and well-adjusted, but they also tend to be somewhat overcontrolled and unnecessarily inhibited.\"\n\nFactors affecting one's ability to delay gratification depend on whether the delay contingency is self-imposed (delay can be terminated at the will of the person waiting) or externally imposed by another person, institution or circumstance. When the contingency is self-imposed, the physical presence of the reward seems to aid in delaying gratification. On the other hand, when the delay is externally imposed, children are not able to wait as long when the reward is present, suggesting greater frustration under these circumstances.\n\nEngaging in work or an assigned task can generate an effective distraction from a reward and enable a person to wait for a longer delay, as long as the reward is not being flaunted. Having the reward present during work (and easily accessible) creates a negative frustration—akin to teasing—rather than providing motivation. For example, a child who can see other children playing outside while finishing his/her homework will be less motivated to wait for his/her turn for recess. Another factor work and task engagement adds to the delay of gratification is that if the work is interesting and has some reinforcing quality inherent to it, then attention to the reward will reduce work productivity since it becomes a distraction to the work rather than a motivation to finish it.\n\nThe more positive emotions and behavior that a 12- to 24-month-old toddler displays when coping with separation from a parent, the better s/he is 3.5 years later at using cooling strategies in order to delay gratification. This suggests that the emotional skills and processes required for coping with social and interpersonal frustrations are similar to those utilized for coping with the aggravation of goal-directed delay of gratification. Maternal attachment also influences the development of a child's ability to delay gratification. An interaction has been found between a mother's level of control and how close a child stays to the mother while exploring the environment. Children who have controlling mothers and explore their environment at a far distance from her are able to employ more cooling strategies and delay rewards longer. Similarly, children who stay close to a non-controlling mothers also use more cool strategies and demonstrate longer delays. This suggests that some children of controlling mothers have better learned how to distract themselves from or effectively avoid intrusive stimuli, although additional effects on their emotional competency are speculated but unknown. A greater capacity to delay gratification by using effective attentional strategies is also seen in preschoolers whose mothers had been responsive and supportive during particularly stressful times of self-regulation when the child was a toddler, indicating that maternal responsiveness during highly demanding times is crucial for the development of self-regulation, self-control and emotional competency.\n\nResearchers have investigated whether the reliability of the reward affects one's ability to delay gratification. Reliability of the reward refers to how well the reward received matches what the person was expecting or promised in terms of quality and quantity. For example, researchers told children that they would receive better art supplies if they waited. After the children successfully waited for the reward, better supplies could not be \"found\" and so they had to use the crayons and stickers that were in poor shape. Comparing these children to ones who received their promised rewards reliably revealed different results on subsequent Marshmallow tests measuring delayed gratification. Children who had learned that the researcher's promise was unreliable quickly succumbed to eating the marshmallow, waiting only an average of three minutes. Conversely, children who had learned that the researcher was reliable were able to wait an average of 12 minutes, with many of them waiting the full 15 minutes for the researcher to return in order to double the reward to two marshmallows.\n\nEvolutionary theory can argue against the selection of the deferred gratification trait since there are both costs and risks associated with delaying gratification behavior. One such cost is the basic opportunity cost associated with time spent waiting. While waiting, individuals lose time that could be used to find other food. Seeking high calorie food conveys a clear evolutionary advantage. There are also two risks associated with being patient. First, there is a risk that another animal might get to the food first, also known as an interruption risk. Second, there is the risk that the chance to get the reward will be cut short, perhaps by a predator, also known as a termination risk. These costs and risks create situations in which the fitness of the individual is threatened. There are several examples that show how reward delay occurs in the real world. For example, animals that eat fruit have the option of eating unripe fruit right away, or waiting, delaying gratification, until it becomes ripe. The interruption risk plays a part here, because if the individual forgoes the unripe fruit, there is a chance that another individual may come along and get to it first. Also, in extractive foraging, such as with nuts and shellfish, the outer shell creates a delay. However, animals that can store food and defer eating are more likely to survive during harsh conditions, and thus delaying gratification may also incur an evolutionary advantage.\n\nIt is likely that there is a strong genetic component to deferred gratification, though no direct link has been established. Since many complex genetic interactions are necessary for neurons to perform the simplest tasks, it is hard to isolate one gene to study this behavior. For this same reason, multiple genes are likely responsible for deferred gratification. Further research is necessary to discover the genetic corollaries to delayed gratification.\n\nDelayed gratification or deferred gratification is an animal behavior that can be linked to delay discounting, ecological factors, individual fitness, and neurobiological mechanisms. Research for this behavior has been conducted with animals such as capuchin monkeys, tamarins, marmosets, rats, and pigeons.\n\nWhen animals are faced with a choice to either wait for a reward, or receive a reward right away, the discounting of the reward is hyperbolic. As the length of time of waiting for a reward increases, the reward is discounted at a gradual rate. Empirical data have suggested that exponential discounting, rewards discounting at a constant rate per unit of waiting time, only occurs when there are random interruptions in foraging. Discounting can also be related to the risk sensitivity of animals. Rather than relating risk to delay, risk sensitivity acts as a function of delay discounting. In a study conducted by Haden and Platt, macaque monkeys were given the choice of a medium reward that they knew they would receive, versus a more risky choice. The riskier choice would reward the monkey with a large reward fifty percent of the time, and a small reward the other fifty percent. The ultimate payoff was the same, but the monkeys preferred the riskier choice. They speculated that the monkeys did not see their action as risky, but rather as a large, delayed reward. They reasoned that the monkeys viewed the large reward as certain: if they did not get the large reward the first time around, they would eventually get it, but at a longer delay.\nTo test for this theory, they gave the same test while varying the time between the opportunities to choose a reward. They found that as the interval increased, the number of times that the monkeys chose the more risky reward decreased. While this occurred in macaque monkeys, the varying interval time did not affect pigeons' choices in another study. This suggests that research looking into varying risk sensitivity of different species is needed. When provided a choice between a small, short delay reward, and a large, long delay reward, there is an impulsive preference for the former. Additionally, as the delay time for the small/short and large/long reward increases, there is a shift in preference toward the larger, delayed reward. This evidence only supports hyperbolic discounting, not exponential.\n\nAlthough predicting reward preference seems simple when using empirical models, there are a number of ecological factors that seem to affect the delayed gratification behavior of animals. In real world situations, \"discounting makes sense because of the inherent uncertainty of future payoffs\".\n\nOne study looked at how reward discounting is context specific. By differing the time and space between small and large rewards, they were able to test how these factors affected the decision making in tamarins and marmosets. They showed that tamarins will travel longer distances for larger food rewards, but will not wait as long as marmosets. Conversely, marmosets will wait longer, but will not travel as far. They then concluded that this discounting behavior directly correlates to the normal feeding behavior of species. The tamarins feed over large distances, looking for insects. Capturing and eating insects requires a quick and impulsive decision and action. The marmosets, on the other hand, eat tree sap, which takes more time to secrete, but does not require that the marmosets to cover large distances.\n\nThe physiological similarities between humans and other animals, especially primates, have led to more comparative research between the two groups. Future research with animal models then can expand our own understanding of how people make decisions about instant versus delayed gratification in the real world.\n\n"}
{"id": "6111114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6111114", "title": "Dental insurance", "text": "Dental insurance\n\nDental insurance is a form of health insurance designed to pay a portion of the costs associated with dental care. There are several different types of individual, family, or group dental insurance plans grouped into three primary categories: Indemnity, Preferred Provider Network (PPO), and Dental Health Managed Organizations (DHMO).\n\nGenerally dental offices have a , or a list of prices for the dental services or procedures they offer. Dental insurance companies have similar fee schedules which is generally based on Usual and Customary dental services, an average of fees in an area. The fee schedule is commonly used as the transactional instrument between the insurance company, dental office and/or dentist, and the consumer.\n\nWith indemnity dental plans, the insurance company generally pays the dentist a percentage of the cost of services. Restrictions may include the co-payment requirements, waiting period, stated deductible, annual limitations, graduated percentage scales based on the type of procedure, and the length of time that the policy has been owned.\n\nDental Health Maintenance Organization plans entail dentists contracting with a dental insurance company that dentists agree to accept an insurance fee schedule and give their customers a reduced cost for services as an In-Network Provider. Many DHMO insurance plans have little or no waiting periods and no annual maximum benefit limitations, while covering major dental work near the start of the policy period. This plan is sometimes purchased to help defray the high cost of the dental procedures. Some dental insurance plans offer free semi-annual preventative treatment. Fillings, crowns, implants, and dentures may have various limitations.\n\nIn the United States, Participating Provider Network or PPO, also referred to as Preferred Provider Organization, is an organization governed by medical doctors, hospitals, other health centers, and medical care providers. This organization has an agreement with an insurer or the third party administrator to provide health insurance to the people associated with their client at reduced or low rates. Participating Provider Network plan may work similar to a DHMO while using an In-Network facility. However, a PPO allows Out-of-Network or Non-Participating Providers to be used for service. Any difference of fees will become the financial responsibility of the patient, unless otherwise specified.\n\nDental insurance companies divide benefits, services, or procedures into categories and refer to them with American Dental Association (ADA) 3-4 digit code. As an example, Preventative and Diagnostic procedures often include exams (ADA code 0120), x-rays (ADA code 0210), and basic cleanings or prophylaxis (ADA code 1110). Basic procedures often include fillings, periodontics, endodontics, and oral surgery. Major procedures often are crowns, dentures, and implants. Procedures such as periodontics, endodontics, and oral surgery may be considered major, depending on the policy.\n\nSome dental insurance plans may have an annual maximum benefit limit. Once the annual maximum benefit is exhausted any additional treatments may become the patient's responsibility. Each year, the annual maximum is reissued. The reissue date may vary as a calendar year, company fiscal year, or date of enrollment based on the specific plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22481627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22481627", "title": "Depression in childhood and adolescence", "text": "Depression in childhood and adolescence\n\nDepression is a state of low mood and aversion to activity. It may be a normal reaction to occurring life events or circumstances, a symptom of a medical condition, a side effect of drugs or medical treatments, or a symptom of certain psychiatric syndromes, such as the mood disorders major depressive disorder and dysthymia. Depression in childhood and adolescence is similar to adult major depressive disorder, although young sufferers may exhibit increased irritability or aggressive and self-destructive behavior, rather than the all-encompassing sadness associated with adult forms of depression. Children who are under stress, experience loss, or have attention, learning, behavioral, or anxiety disorders are at a higher risk for depression. Childhood depression is often comorbid with mental disorders outside of other mood disorders; most commonly anxiety disorder and conduct disorder. Depression also tends to run in families. Psychologists have developed different treatments to assist children and adolescents suffering from depression, though the legitimacy of the diagnosis of childhood depression as a psychiatric disorder, as well as the efficacy of various methods of assessment and treatment, remains controversial.\n\nAbout 8% of children and adolescents suffer from depression. Research suggests that the prevalence of young depression sufferers in Western cultures ranges from 1.9% to 3.4% among primary school children and 3.2% to 8.9% among adolescents. Studies have also found that among children diagnosed with a depressive episode, there is a 70% rate of recurrence within five years. Furthermore, 50% of children with depression will have a recurrence at least once during their adulthood. While there is no gender difference in depression rates up until age 15, after that age the rate among women doubles compared to men. However, in terms of recurrence rates and symptom severity, there is no gender difference. In an attempt to explain these findings, one theory asserts that preadolescent women, on average, have more risk factors for depression than men. These risk factors then combine with the typical stresses and challenges of adolescent development to trigger the onset of depression.\n\nLike their adult counterparts, children and adolescent depression sufferers are at an increased risk of attempting or committing suicide. Suicide is the third leading cause of death among 15-19 year olds. Adolescent males may be at an even higher risk of suicidal behavior if they also present with a conduct disorder. In the 1990s, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) found that up to 7% of adolescents who develop major depressive disorder may commit suicide as young adults. Such statistics demonstrate the importance of interventions by family and friends, as well as the importance of early diagnosis and treatment by medical staff, to prevent suicide among depressed or at-risk youth.\nHowever, some data showed an opposite conclusion. Most depression symptoms are reported more frequently by females; such as sadness (reported by 85.1% of women and 54.3% of men), and crying (approximately 63.4% of women and 42.9% of men). Women have a higher probability to experience depression than men, with the prevalences of 19.2% and 13.5% respectively.\n\nIn childhood, boys and girls appear to be at equal risk for depressive disorders; during adolescence, however, girls are twice as likely as boys to develop depression. Before adolescence rates of depression are about the same in girls and boys, it is not until between the ages of 11-13 that is begins to change. Young girls around this age, physically, go through more changes than young boys which put that a higher risk for depression and hormonal imbalance. The gender gap in depression between adolescent men and women is mostly due to young women's lower levels of positive thinking, need for approval, and self-focusing negative conditions. Frequent exposure to victimization or bullying was related to high risks of depression, ideation and suicide attempts compare to those not involved in bullying. Nicotine dependence is also associated with depression, anxiety, and poor dieting, mostly in young men. Although causal direction has not been established, involvement in any sex or drug use is cause for concern. Children who develop major depression are more likely to have a family history of the disorder (often a parent who experienced depression at an early age) than patients with adolescent- or adult-onset depression. Adolescents with depression are also likely to have a family history of depression, though the correlation is not as high as it is for children.\n\nResearch has shown that there is a high rate of comorbidity with depression in children with dysthymia. There is also a substantial comorbidity rate with depression in children with anxiety disorder, conduct disorder, and impaired social functioning. Particularly, there is a high comorbidity rate with anxiety, ranging from 15.9% to 75%. Conduct disorders also have a significant comorbidity with depression in children and adolescents, with a rate of 23% in one longitudinal study. Beyond other clinical disorders, there is also an association between depression in childhood and poor psychosocial and academic outcomes, as well as a higher risk for substance abuse and suicide.\n\nThe prevalence of psychiatric comorbidities during adolescence may vary by race and ethnicity.\n\nAccording to the DSM-IV, children must exhibit either a depressed mood or a loss of interest or pleasure in normal activities. These activities may include school, extracurricular activities, or peer interactions. Depressive moods in children can be expressed as being unusually irritable, which may be displayed by \"acting out,\" behaving recklessly, or often reacting with anger or hostility. Children who do not have the cognitive or language development to properly express mood states can also exhibit their mood through physical complaints such as showing sad facial expressions (frowning) and poor eye contact. A child must also exhibit four other symptoms in order to be clinically diagnosed. However, according to the Omnigraphics \"Health References Series: Depression Sourcebook, Third Edition\", a more calculated evaluation must be given by a medical or mental health professional such as a physiologist or psychiatrist. Following the bases of symptoms, signs include, but are not limited to, an unusual change in sleep habits (for example, trouble sleeping or overly indulged sleeping hours); a significant amount of weight gain/loss by lack or excessive eating; experiencing aches/pains for no apparent reason that can found; and an inability to concentrate on tasks or activities. If these symptoms are present for a period of two weeks or longer, it is safe to make the assumption that the child, or anybody else for that matter, is falling into major depression.\n\nAccording to research conducted by Laura P. Richardson et al., major depression occurred in 7% of the cohort during early adolescence (11, 13, and 15 years of age) and 27% during late adolescence (18 and 21 years of age). At 26 years of age, 12% of study members were obese. After adjusting for each individual's baseline body mass index (calculated as the weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters), depressed late adolescent girls were at a greater than 2-fold increased risk for obesity in adulthood compared with their non-depressed female peers (relative risk, 2.32; 95% confidence interval, 1.29-3.83). A dose-response relationship between the number of episodes of depression during adolescence, and risk for adult obesity was also observed in female subjects. The association was not observed for late adolescent boys or for early adolescent boys or girls.\n\nAccording to research by RM Carney et al., any history of child depression influences the occurrence of adolescent cardiac risk factors, even if individuals no longer suffer from depression. They are much more likely to develop heart disease as adults.\n\nWhile there are many similarities to adult depression, especially in expression of symptoms, there are many differences that create a distinction between the two diagnoses. Research has shown that when a child’s age is younger at diagnosis, typically there will be a more noticeable difference in expression of symptoms from the classic signs in adult depression. One major difference between the symptoms exhibited in adults and in children is that children have higher rates of internalization; therefore, symptoms of child depression are more difficult to recognize. One major cause of this difference is that many of the neurobiological effects in the brain of adults with depression are not fully developed until adulthood. Therefore, in a neurological sense, children and adolescents express depression differently.\n\nProfessionals first became aware of child abuse in the early 1980s, so it is possible that some of the young people identified with depressive disorders may have had a history of sexual abuse, which was not disclosed. This raises the question of what the outcome would have been in those young people if they had disclosed the abuse and received appropriate therapeutic interventions. It is well-known that childhood sexual abuse is a significant factor in the history of some adults with depressive syndromes.\n\nIn the past, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was not recognized, and hyperkinetic disorder was only rarely diagnosed. Some young people, especially those with comorbid conduct disorder and major depressive disorder, may have had undiagnosed and untreated ADHD. Before the use of psycho-stimulants, some young people may have been more vulnerable to development of depressive syndromes because of untreated attentional and other behavioural problems which reduce their self-esteem.\n\nAlthough antidepressants were used by child and adolescent psychiatrists to treat major depressive disorder, they may not always have been used in young people with a comorbid conduct disorder because of the risks of overdose in such a population. Tricyclic antidepressant were the predominant antidepressants used at that time in this population. With the advent of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), child and adolescent psychiatrists probably began prescribing more anti-depressants in the comorbid conduct disorder/major depressive group because of the lower risk of serious harm in overdose. This raises the possibility that more effective treatment of these young people might also improve their outcomes in adult life.\n\nAmong the psychological assessments for identifying whether or not children and adolescents are experiencing depression or depressive symptoms is the Children's Depression Inventory. In early 2016, the USPSTF released an updated recommendation for the screening of adolescents ages 12 to 18 years for major depressive disorder (MDD). Appropriate treatment and follow-up should be provided for adolescents who screen positive.\n\nThere are multiple treatments that can be effective in treating children diagnosed with depression. Psychotherapy and medications are commonly used treatment options. In some research, adolescents showed a preference for psychotherapy rather than antidepressant medication for treatment. For adolescents, cognitive behavioral therapy and interpersonal therapy have been empirically supported as effective treatment options. The use of antidepressant medication in children is often seen as a last resort; however, studies have shown that a combination of psychotherapy and medication is the most effective treatment. Pediatric massage therapy may have an immediate effect on a child's emotional state at the time of the massage, but sustained effects on depression have not been identified.\n\nTreatment programs have been developed that help reduce the symptoms of depression. These treatments focus on immediate symptom reduction by concentrating on teaching children skills pertaining to primary and secondary control. While much research is still needed to confirm this treatment program’s efficacy, one study showed it to be effective in children with mild or moderate depressive symptoms.\n\nThere are three common types of talk therapy. These can assist people to live more fully and have a better life. Men are encouraged to open up more emotionally and communicate their personal distress, while women are encouraged to be assertive of their own strengths\n\nCognitive therapy aims to change harmful ways of thinking and reframe negative thoughts in a more positive way. Aims of cognitive therapy include various steps of patient learning. They learn to monitor their negative thoughts, to become aware of the link between their thoughts, the affect their thoughts have on them & their behavior, to become aware of and change the negative, depressive thoughts which affect their health and state of mind \n\nBehavioral therapy helps change harmful ways of acting and gain control over behavior which is causing problems.\n\nInterpersonal therapy helps one learn to relate better with others, express feelings, and develop better social skills.\n\nPsychotherapy teaches coping skills while allowing the teens or children to explore feelings and events in a safe environment.\n\nThe principles of group dynamics are relevant to family therapists who must not only work with individuals, but with entire family systems. Two key concepts that influence family therapy are the distinction between the process and content of group discussions, and role theory.\n\nTherapists strive to understand not just what the group members say, but how these ideas are communicated (process). Therapists can help families improve the way they relate and thus enhance their own capacity to deal with the content of their problems by focusing on the process of their discussions. Virginia Satir expanded on the concept of how individuals behave and communicate in groups by describing several family roles that can serve to stabilize expected characteristic behavior patterns in a family. For instance, if one child is considered to be a \"rebel child\", a sibling may take on the role of the \"good child\" to alleviate some of the stress in the family. This concept of role reciprocity is helpful in understanding family dynamics because the complementary nature of roles makes behaviors more resistant to change.\n\nThroughout the development and research of this disorder, controversies have emerged over the legitimacy of depression in childhood and adolescence as a diagnosis, the proper measurement and validity of scales to diagnose, and the safety of particular treatments.\n\nIn early research of depression in children, there was debate as to whether or not children could clinically fit the criteria for major depressive disorder. However, since the 1970s, it has been accepted among the psychological community that depression in children can be clinically significant. The more pertinent controversy in psychology today centers around the clinical significance of subthreshold mood disorders. This controversy stems from the debate regarding the definition of the specific criteria for a clinically significant depressed mood in relation to the cognitive and behavioral symptoms. Some psychologists argue that the effects of mood disorders in children and adolescents that exist (but do not fully meet the criteria for depression) do not have severe enough risks. Children in this area of severity, they argue, should receive some sort of treatment since the effects could still be severe. However, since there has yet to be enough research or scientific evidence to support that children that fall within the area just shy of a clinical diagnosis require treatment, other psychologists are hesitant to support the dispensation of treatment.\n\nIn order to diagnose a child with depression, different screening measures and reports have been developed to help clinicians make a proper decision. However, the accuracy and effectiveness of certain measures that help psychologists diagnose children have come into question. Questions have also surfaced about the safety and effectiveness of antidepressant medications.\n\nThe effectiveness of dimensional child self-report checklists has been criticized. Although literature has documented strong psychometric properties, other studies have shown a poor specificity at the top end of scales, resulting in most children with high scores not meeting the diagnostic criteria for depression. Another issue with reliability of measurement for diagnosis occurs in parent, teacher, and child reports. One study, which observed the similarities between child self-report and parent reports on the child's symptoms of depression, acknowledged that on more subjective symptom reports measures, the agreement was not significant enough to be considered reliable. Two self-report scales demonstrated an erroneous classification of 25% of children in both the depressed and controlled samples. A large concern in the use of self-report scales is the accuracy of the information collected. The main controversy is caused by uncertainty about how the data from these multiple informants can or should be combined to determine whether a child can be diagnosed with depression.\n\nThe controversy over the use of antidepressants began in 2003 when Great Britain's Department of Health stated that, based on data collected by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, paroxetine (an antidepressant) should not be used on patients under the age of 18. Since then, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued a warning describing the increased risk of adverse effects of antidepressants used as treatment in those under the age of 18. The main concern is whether the risks outweigh the benefits of the treatment. In order to decide this, studies often look at the adverse effects caused by the medication in comparison to the overall symptom improvement. While multiple studies have shown an improvement or efficacy rate of over 50%, the concern of severe side effects – such as suicidal ideation or suicidal attempts, worsening of symptoms, or increase in hostility – are still concerns when using antidepressants. However, an analysis of multiple studies argues that while the risk of suicidal ideation or attempt is present, the benefits significantly outweigh the risks. Due to the variability of these studies, it is currently recommended that if antidepressants are chosen as a method of treatment for children or adolescents, the clinician monitor closely for adverse symptoms, since there is still no definitive answer on the safety and overall efficacy.\n"}
{"id": "38102081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38102081", "title": "EHealthMe", "text": "EHealthMe\n\neHealthMe.com is an American medical analysis website launched in 2008. The site provides patients and healthcare professionals with tools to study approximately 40 million drug outcomes, following the release of those drugs onto the market. The company conducts analysis on significant amounts of data from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the wider community going back to 1977 to provide post-marketing phase information. The services, which help consumers weigh the risks of using or combining drugs, are free and anonymous.\n\neHealthMe was publicly launched in 2008 by Madison, Wisconsin based \"HealthLatLLC\". It was founded by Johnson Chen, who was formerly a healthcare consultant with Deloitte.\n\nThe company carries out independent research, such as the studies into the side effects of statins, specifically occurrences of rhabdomyolysis, in 2008. Patients also used the website for self-reporting adverse drug effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "1869684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1869684", "title": "Eisenstadt v. Baird", "text": "Eisenstadt v. Baird\n\nEisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438 (1972), is a United States Supreme Court case that established the right of unmarried people to possess contraception on the same basis as married couples.\n\nThe Court struck down a Massachusetts law prohibiting the distribution of contraceptives to unmarried people for the purpose of preventing pregnancy, ruling that it violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution.\n\nWilliam Baird was charged with a felony for distributing contraceptive foams after lectures on birth control and population control at Boston University. The prearranged violation of the law occurred on April 6, 1967 when Baird handed a condom and a package of contraceptive foam to a 19-year-old woman. Under Massachusetts law on \"Crimes against chastity\" (Chapter 272, section 21A), contraceptives could be distributed only by registered doctors or pharmacists, and only to married persons.\n\nAfter Baird was convicted, an appeal resulted in partial overturn by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, which concluded that the lectures were covered by First Amendment protections. However, the court affirmed the conviction under contraceptive distribution laws. Baird filed a petition for a federal writ of habeas corpus, which was refused by the federal district court. Upon appeal, The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the dismissal and remanded the action with directions to grant the writ, and dismiss the charge, reasoning that the Massachusetts law infringed on fundamental human rights of unmarried couples as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. This ruling was then appealed to the United States Supreme Court, by Sheriff Eisenstadt, who had prosecuted the case, on the ground that Baird lacked standing to appeal, being neither an authorized distributor under the statute nor a single person.\n\nIn a 6–1 decision (Justices Rehnquist and Powell were not sworn in on time to participate in the case), the Court upheld both Baird's standing to appeal and the First Circuit's decision on the basis of the Equal Protection Clause, but did not reach the Due Process issues. The majority opinion was written by Justice William J. Brennan Jr. and joined by three other justices, William O. Douglas, Potter Stewart, and Thurgood Marshall. Brennan reasoned that, since Massachusetts did not (and perhaps could not under \"Griswold v. Connecticut\") enforce its law against married couples, the law worked irrational discrimination by denying the right to possess contraceptives by unmarried couples. He found that Massachusetts's law was not designed to protect public health and lacked a rational basis.\n\nBrennan, writing for the Court, made four principal observations:\n\n\nJustice Douglas, concurring, argued that since Baird was engaged in speech while distributing vaginal foam, his arrest was prohibited by the First Amendment.\n\nJustice White, joined by Justice Blackmun, did not join Brennan's opinion but concurred in the judgment on narrower grounds. White and Blackmun declined to reach the issue of whether Massachusetts could limit distribution of contraceptives only to married couples. They argued that Massachusetts had asserted an implausible health rationale for limiting distribution of vaginal foam to licensed pharmacists or physicians.\n\nChief Justice Burger dissented alone, arguing that there were no conclusive findings available to the Court on the health risks of vaginal foam since that issue had not been presented to the lower courts, and thus no basis for the Court's finding that the Massachusetts statute served no public health interest. Burger also held that the Massachusetts statute independently advanced the state's interest in ensuring couples receive informed medical advice on contraceptives.\n\nWhile Brennan's ruling conceded that states may prohibit sex outside of marriage, later cases have interpreted its most famous sentence—\"If the right of privacy means anything, it is the right of the individual, married or single, to be free from unwarranted governmental intrusion into matters so fundamentally affecting a person as the decision whether to bear or beget a child.\"—as recognizing the right of single people to procreate on the same basis as married couples, reasoning which would eventually be extended to a more general right to engage in sexual activity. \"Carey v. Population Services International\", decided in 1977, struck down a New York law forbidding distribution of contraceptives to those under 16 but failed to produce a majority opinion and thus is not widely cited. \"Bowers v. Hardwick\" in 1986 rejected the claim of homosexuals to a fundamental right to engage in sodomy. However, \"Lawrence v. Texas\" overruled \"Bowers\" in 2003, citing \"Eisenstadt\" in support of this ruling, and recognized that consenting adults had a right to engage in private, consensual non-commercial sexual intercourse. Roy Lucas, a prominent abortion rights lawyer, assessed the case as \"among the most influential in the United States during the entire [20th] century by any manner or means of measurement.\" \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\" is mentioned in over 52 Supreme Court cases from 1972 through 2002. Each of the eleven U.S. Court of Appeals Circuit, as well as the Federal Circuit, has cited \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\" as authority. The highest courts of all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico have cited \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23677893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23677893", "title": "EmblemHealth", "text": "EmblemHealth\n\nEmblemHealth is one of the United States' largest nonprofit health plans. It is headquartered at 55 Water Street in Lower Manhattan, New York City. It is a $10 billion company with 3.1 million members.\n\nEmblemHealth was created in 2006 through the merger of Group Health Incorporated (GHI) and the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York (HIP). GHI and HIP had been operating as separate companies in the New York region since 1937 and 1947, respectively.\n\nGHI – originally named Group Health Association of New York – was established in 1937 to provide New York’s working families with access to medical services regardless of cost. This new health care model – built around a network of participating providers – was a precursor to today’s preferred provider organization (PPO).\nIn order to expand its presence in the upstate New York market, GHI established GHI HMO as an incorporated entity in New York State in May 1999. The following month, GHI HMO acquired certain assets of Well Care Management Group, Inc.\n\nIn August 2005, GHI Select HMO acquired the assets, including the membership, of ABC Health Plans, which provides managed care services to Medicaid, Family Health Plus and Child Health Plus enrollees in Manhattan and The Bronx, New York.\n\nIn 1943, New York City mayor Fiorello LaGuardia convened a panel to explore the feasibility of offering pre-paid medical services to New Yorkers of “moderate means.” That panel led to the incorporation of HIP in 1944 as the first health insurance plan for public service workers, utilizing various medical centers throughout the city. More than 2,600 members of the Chefs, Cooks, Pastry Cooks and Assistants Local 89 became the first subscribers to HIP in 1947.\n\nIn 1997, HIP began offering its members medical services through a physician provider network, in addition to its medical centers.\n\nOn November 30, 2001, HIP acquired Vytra Health Plans Long Island along with certain related entities. Due to their steadily worsening financial condition, the decision was made to merge these entities into HIP, effective March 29, 2006.\n\nIn 2004, HIP moved 2,000 of its employees to 55 Water Street, the largest corporate relocation to Lower Manhattan since the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn an effort to expand its service area, HIP acquired ConnectiCare Holding Company, Inc., a Connecticut corporation (“ConnectiCare Holding”) and its subsidiaries, on March 10, 2005. ConnectiCare was later established as an independent HMO is 1982. ConnectiCare serves approximately 240,000 members in a service area that includes the entire State of Connecticut; Berkshire, Hampshire, Hampden, Franklin and parts of Worcester counties in Massachusetts; and Westchester, Rockland, Putnam and Orange Counties in New York. ConnectiCare’s members have access to a provider network of approximately 19,900 health care providers.\n\nOn September 29, 2005, the boards of directors of GHI and HIP announced an agreement to merge the two companies. The resulting company – to be named EmblemHealth – would be governed by a Foundation made up of an equal number of directors from both companies.\n\nAnthony Watson, then chairman and CEO of HIP, managed the 2006 merger, which created the largest health insurer based in New York State.\n\nIn May 2013, Frank Branchini became chairman and chief executive officer, succeeding Watson, who retired. Watson's compensation, $8.8 million in 2011, was often discussed. In contrast, Mark Wagar, president and CEO of Empire BlueCross BlueShield, the largest New York insurer, was paid $2.2 million.\n\nAlthough discussions about for-profit conversion have taken place, the organization remains a non-profit.\n\nIn November 2012, EmblemHealth began establishing a community presence in its service area by launching a hybrid care coordination and wellness program called Neighborhood Care. The first two Neighborhood Care facilities were located in Harlem and Cambria Heights, Queens. Two additional Neighborhood Care sites were subsequently established in Chinatown in December 2013 and in Crown Heights in April 2016. Each Neighborhood Care site is a brick-and-mortar health care retail location where members and non-members alike can receive in-person medical guidance, referral assistance, medication support and connections to appropriate social services. The facilities also host informational sessions, health screenings, health and wellness activities, exercise classes, and sponsorships of local farmers' markets.\n\nOn May 21, 2015, it was announced that Karen Ignagni, CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), would be leaving the industry’s powerful lobbying group to become President and CEO of EmblemHealth, effective September 1, 2015. Ignagni, who spent more than 20 years with AHIP, replaced Frank Branchini.\n\nIn January 2013, EmblemHealth announced a partnership with AdvantageCare Physicians (ACPNY).\n\nIn February 2016, EmblemHealth announced a new partnership with the City of New York and the Municipal Labor Committee to provide expanded access to health care. The partnership was also developed to support the City's goal of health care cost savings for NYC taxpayers. With a strong focus on preventive and primary care – such as $0 copays and telemedicine services – Emblem worked with the City and its Unions to develop new, accessible benefits to City employees and their families.\n\nOn March 25, 2016, EmblemHealth announced a new two-year partnership agreement with Northwell Health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10989802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10989802", "title": "Feminist Perspectives on Eating Disorders", "text": "Feminist Perspectives on Eating Disorders\n\nFeminist Perspectives on Eating Disorders is a book edited by Patricia Fallon and others in which feminists analyzed the impact of what they regard as sexist and oppressive of women on women's eating disorders. Feminists do not \"necessarily\" believe that society is the sole cause of an eating disorder, but that societal influences definitely play a role in these addictions (the craving to control one’s body and the euphoria established through weight loss or controlled food in-take) and that eating disorders thrive in this type of environment.\n\nWhen World War I (as well as World War II) began, many women had to work out of the household because their husbands were fighting in the war and the family needed financial support. Many women took jobs that were deemed masculine, including the production of war supplies. In reaction to this advertisers began to heavily market their products to women, to make them feel more feminine while doing “a man’s job”. The marketing industry boomed with the growth of advertising in magazines.\n\nUntil the 1920s women in America were kept “under wraps”, wearing clothing that covered almost every inch of skin (other than hands and heads). After getting the vote women began to wear clothes that displayed their arms and legs, heightening the issues of body image. Women grew concerned about the appearance of their limbs and tried to keep them smooth and desirable. The ideal figure changed, and women were expected to be more slender. Inevitably, this is when the dieting craze began. The average woman in the West however, has become far larger, even as the ideal has remained for a slender figure, with obesity being as much 60 percent in many studies. \n\nFrom this point forward women in the media grew smaller and smaller. In 1965 Vogue introduced Twiggy, known for her large eyes, long eyelashes, and thin build. The media began to focus more on women’s bodies and because there are few positive female role models in the media, women tried to imitate these figures.\n\nWith the average model weighing 23% less than the average woman, ideal body image becomes virtually impossible (Wolf, 184). At any given time 25% of American women are dieting (Wolf, 185). Between 5-10% of American women are anorexic (Brumberg, 20). Between 90-95% of anorexics and bulimics are women (Wolf, 181). On some college campuses 1 in 5 women have an eating disorder (Wolf, 182). It is also reported that 5 to 15% of hospitalized anorexics die while in treatment, one of the highest fatality rates for mental diseases (Brumberg, 24). These alarming statistics further prove that American culture affects eating disordered behavior and allows these behaviors to thrive.\n\nFeminists want to take action against what they claim to be harmful images the media uses against its viewers. Few efforts have been made to reverse this possible epidemic as people tend to become desensitized to such images and may not recognize their possibly harmful potential. Recently, the cosmetic manufacturers of Dove have promoted their “Campaign for Real Beauty”. This campaign uses many different body types to advertise their products, including overweight women, older women, and women with imperfections. Tyra Banks has also made efforts to expose the “less than ideal” body types. Banks has taken advantage of her fame to promote different body figures. The new talk show host has publicly defended her recent weight gain and attempts to deliver the message that being sexy has nothing to do with being thin or healthy.\n\nMedia has also been blamed for poor body image and eating disorders in women. Magazines, TV shows, and various other advertisements show thin models as having the \"ideal body type\" for women. Some scholars argue that these types of media items can enforce poor eating habits and eating disorder-like behavior. The other factor may be the growth of clinical obesity in the average woman, but the opposing direction being taken in the figures of media personalities.\n\nHowever, other researchers have contested the claims of the media effects paradigm. An article by Christopher Ferguson, Benjamin Winegard, and Bo Winegard, for example, argues that peer effects are much more likely to cause body dissatisfaction than media effects, and that media effects have been overemphasized. It also argues that one must be careful about making the leap from arguing that certain environmental conditions might cause body dissatisfaction to the claim that those conditions can cause diagnosable eating disorders, especially severe eating disorders like anorexia nervosa.\n\nEating disorders describe illnesses that are characterized by irregular eating habits and severe distress or concern about body weight or shape. Eating disturbances may include inadequate or excessive food intake, which can ultimately damage an individual’s well being. According to the American Psychological Association (APA), the most common forms of eating disorders include Anorexia Nervosa, Bulimia Nervosa, and Binge-Eating Disorder, and these illnesses primarily affect girls and women (APA). People with anorexia nervosa have a “distorted body image” that causes them to see themselves as overweight even when they are dangerously thin (APA). Individuals often refuse to eat, exercise compulsively, and develop unusual habits such as refusing to eat in front of others. They lose large amounts of weight and may even starve to death (APA). People with anorexia feel they can never be thin enough and continue to see themselves as “fat” despite extreme weight loss. \nAdditionally, individuals with bulimia nervosa eat excessive quantities, then “purge their bodies of the food and calories they fear by using laxatives, enemas, or diuretics; vomiting; or exercising” (APA). Often acting in secrecy, they feel disgusted and ashamed as they binge, yet relieved of tension and negative emotions once their stomachs are empty again (APA). Like people with bulimia, those with binge eating disorder experience “frequent episodes of out-of-control eating” (APA). The difference is that binge eaters do not purge their bodies of excess calories. Another category of eating disorders is “eating not otherwise specified” (EDNOS), in which individuals have eating-related problems, but do not meet the official criteria for anorexia, bulimia, or binge eating.\n\nFor some people, a preoccupation with food becomes a way to gain control over one aspect of their lives. Although it may start out as simply eating a bit more or less than usual, the behavior can spiral out of control and take over the person’s life. Eating disorders are a serious medical problem that can have long-term health consequences if left untreated. It is common for people with eating disorders to hide their unhealthy behaviors, so it can be difficult to recognize the signs of an eating disorder, especially early on. \nAccording to WebMD, the signs of anorexia can be “subtle at first because it develops gradually” (WebMD). It may begin as an interest in dieting before an event like a school dance or a beach vacation, but as the disorder takes hold, “preoccupation with weight intensifies” (WebMD). It creates a vicious cycle: The more weight a person loses, the more than person worries and obsesses about weight. There are a numerous number of signs and symptoms of anorexia, but some of them that are common in most people include: “dramatic weight loss, wearing loose, bulky clothes to hide weight loss, refusal to eat certain foods, such as carbs or fats, avoiding mealtimes or eating in front of others, making comments about being ‘fat’, exercising excessively, stopping menstruating, and complaining about constipation or stomach pain” (WebMD). People with anorexia are very good at hiding it; therefore, the disease can become severe before anyone around them notices anything wrong (WebMD). If left untreated, anorexia can lead to serious complications such as malnutrition and organ failure (WebMD). \n\nUnlike anorexia, people with bulimia are often a normal weight, but they have the same “intense fear” of gaining weight and distorted body image (WebMD). They see themselves as “fat” and desperately want to lose weight. Because they often feel ashamed and disgusted with themselves, people with bulimia also become very good at hiding their bulimic behaviors. Much like the signs of anorexia, there are also many signs of bulimia. Some of them being: “Evidence of binge eating, including disappearance of large amounts of food in a short time, or finding lots of empty food wrappers or containers, evidence of purging, including trips to the bathroom after meals, sounds or smells of vomiting, or packages of laxatives or diuretics, skipping meals or avoiding eating in front of others, or eating very small portions, using gum, mouthwash, or mints excessively, constantly dieting, and scarred knuckles from repeatedly inducing vomiting” (WebMD). If left untreated, bulimia can result in long-term health problems such as “abnormal heart rhythms, bleeding from the esophagus due to excessive reflux of stomach acid, dental problems, and kidney problems” (WebMD). \n\nRather than simply eating too much all the time, people with binge eating disorder have frequent episodes where they binge on large quantities of food. Like people with bulimia, they often feel out of control during these episodes and later feel guilt and shame about it. The behavior becomes a vicious cycle because the more “distressed” they feel about bingeing, the more they seem to do it (WebMD). Because people with binge eating disorder do not purge, fast, or exercise after they binge, they are usually overweight or obese (WebMD). Some common signs of binge eating disorder include: “Hoarding food, or hiding large quantities of food in strange places, constantly dieting, but rarely losing weight, wearing baggy clothes to hide the body, and skipping meals or avoiding eating in front of others” (WebMD). Because binge eating leads to obesity, it can have serious health consequences if left untreated.\n\nAccording to the National Eating Disorder Association (NEDA), “20 million women suffer from a clinically significant eating disorder at some time in their life, whether it is anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, or binge eating disorder” (NEDA). Ruth H. Striegel-Moore and Cynthia M. Bulik in their article, “Risk Factors for Eating Disorders”, say that eating disorders rank among the “10 leading causes of disability among young women” (Striegel-Moore & Bulik 181). Anorexia nervosa has the “highest death rate of any psychiatric illness”, including major depression (NEDA). It is estimated that “1-4% of women have suffered from anorexia nervosa in their lifetime” (NEDA). The mortality rate associated with anorexia nervosa is “12 times higher” than the death rate of all causes of death for females 15-24 years old (NEDA). Without treatment, up to “20% of people with serious eating disorders die” (NEDA).\n\nBulimia statistics tell us that the lifetime prevalence of bulimia nervosa in the United States is “1.5% in women, translating to approximately 4.7 million females who will have their lives threatened by this potentially deadly disorder” (NEDA). While bulimia occurs most commonly in the adolescent and young adult years, it has been diagnosed in patients as young as six years old. Further, binge eating disorder (BED) is actually the most common eating disorder in the United States. In fact, is more common than breast cancer, HIV, and schizophrenia (NEDA). BED affects an estimated “2.8 million people in the United States”, according to a national survey done in 2008. Moreover, binge eating disorder also affects three times the number of people diagnosed with anorexia and bulimia combined. \n\nAdolescence is a complex stage of development in which a number of physical changes and psychosocial challenges converge. The demands of meeting the “tasks” of adolescence can be very difficult for many individuals and can very well have a significant impact on confidence and self-esteem. Those who struggle to meet the challenges may feel a sense of being out of control. Furthermore, in a society that continues to prize thinness even as Americans become heavier than ever before, almost everyone worries about their weight, at least occasionally. People with eating disorders take such concerns to extremes, developing abnormal eating habits that threaten their well-being and even their lives. \nWhat needs to be understood is that eating disorders are complex conditions that can arise from a combination of long-standing behavioral, biological, emotional, psychological, interpersonal, and social factors. Once started, however, they can create a self-perpetuating cycle of physical and emotional destruction. \n\nAdditionally, eating disorders are also highly related to significant comorbidity, functional impairment, suicidality, and health service usage. Given the young age of the onset, early intervention and prevention is crucial. A question often asked in relation to eating disorders is: Does treatment really work? In reference to the American Psychological Association, most cases of eating disorders can be treated successfully by “appropriately trained health and mental care professionals” (APA). However, treatments do not work instantly. For many patients, treatment may need to be long-term depending on the severity of their disorder. Most importantly, the sooner treatment starts, the better. The longer abnormal eating patterns continue, the more deeply ingrained they become and the more difficult they are to treat. While eating disorders can severely impair people’s functioning and health, the prospects for long-term recovery are good for most people who seek help from appropriate professionals, like qualified therapists/licensed psychologists with experience in the area (APA). They can help those who suffer from eating disorders regain control of their eating behaviors and their lives. Furthermore, recognizing the signs and symptoms of an eating disorder is the first step toward getting help for it. Eating disorders are treatable, and with the right treatment and support, most people with an eating disorder can learn healthy eating habits and get their lives back on track. \n\n\nAmerican Psychological Association. “Eating Disorders.” 1-2. 2016. \nNational Eating Disorders Association (NEDA). “What Are Eating Disorders?”\nNational Eating Disorders Association (NEDA). “Health Consequences, Including Mortality.” \nWebMD. “Signs of An Eating Disorder.” 1-3. 2005-2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "58841247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58841247", "title": "Gillian Dorothy Kennedy", "text": "Gillian Dorothy Kennedy\n\nGillian Dorothy Kennedy is a Consultant speech and language therapist specialising in Neonates and Paediatrics at University College Hospital.\n\nKennedy undertook undergraduate study at Edinburgh University and a MSc at City, University of London. She is currently a Consultant speech and language therapist at University College Hospital and one of only two national trainers in NIDCAP (Newborn Individualised Developmental Care and Assessment Program). She teaches families and healthcare staff to recognise the importance of non-verbal communication in infants and is a national and international adviser and educator in the field.\n\nShe was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 2015 and was awarded an OBE in the 2015 Birthday Honours for services to Speech Therapy.\n"}
{"id": "27767967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27767967", "title": "Health effects of chocolate", "text": "Health effects of chocolate\n\nThe health effects of chocolate are the possible positive and negative effects on health of eating chocolate.\n\nUnconstrained consumption of large quantities of any energy-rich food, such as chocolate, without a corresponding increase in activity, increases the risk of obesity. Raw chocolate is high in cocoa butter, a fat removed during chocolate refining, then added back in varying proportions during manufacturing. Manufacturers may add other fats, sugars, and powdered milk as well.\n\nAlthough considerable research has been conducted to evaluate the potential health benefits of consuming chocolate, there are insufficient studies to confirm any effect and no medical or regulatory authority has approved any health claim.\n\n\"Theobroma cacao\", the cacao tree, produces seeds containing flavanols. The seeds have been used to make beverages for some 2000 years in Aztec, Olmec, and Maya civilizations in central and south America. The drinks were ascribed a wide variety of curative and stimulant properties, unsupported by experimental evidence. In the 19th century, chocolate as a solid was invented, and milk and sugar were added to create milk chocolate, high in fat and sugar. Doubtful research, sometimes funded by the chocolate industry, has at times made suggestions of possible health benefits for these products.\n\nOverall evidence is insufficient to determine the relationship between chocolate consumption and acne. One preliminary study concluded that in males who are prone to acne, eating chocolate increases the severity of acne. Various studies point not to chocolate, but to the high glycemic nature of certain foods, like sugar, corn syrup, and other simple carbohydrates, as potential causes of acne, along with other possible dietary factors.\n\nFood, including chocolate, is not typically viewed as addictive. Some people, however, may want or crave chocolate, leading to a self-described term, chocoholic.\n\nIt has been claimed that chocolate is an aphrodisiac, but there are no rigorous studies to prove this effect. There is no clear evidence that stimulants like phenylethylamine found in chocolate increase PEA in the brain.\n\nReviews support a short-term effect of lowering blood pressure by consuming cocoa products, but there is no evidence of long-term cardiovascular health benefit. While daily consumption of cocoa flavanols (minimum dose of 200 mg) appears to benefit platelet and vascular function, there is no good evidence to support an effect on heart attacks or strokes.\n\nChocolate contains caffeine and theobromine, both mild stimulants.\n\nThe effect of chocolate on body weight is unclear. A concern is that excessive consumption of chocolate may promote high calorie intake and weight gain, a risk factor for many diseases, including cardiovascular disease. As a consequence, consuming large quantities of dark chocolate in an attempt to protect against cardiovascular disease is likely to add excessive calories and induce weight gain.\n\nAlthough research suggests that even low levels of lead in the body may be harmful to children, it is unlikely that chocolate consumption in small amounts causes lead poisoning. Some studies have shown that lead may bind to cocoa shells and contamination may occur during the manufacturing process. One study showed the mean lead level in milk chocolate candy bars was 0.027 µg lead per gram of candy; another study found that some chocolate purchased at U.S. supermarkets contained up to 0.965  µg per gram, close to the international (voluntary) standard limit for lead in cocoa powder or beans, which is 1 µg of lead per gram. In 2006, the U.S. FDA lowered by one-fifth the amount of lead permissible in candy, but compliance is only voluntary. Studies concluded that \"children, who are big consumers of chocolates, may be at risk of exceeding the daily limit of lead; whereas one 10 g cube of dark chocolate may contain as much as 20% of the daily lead oral limit. Moreover chocolate may not be the only source of lead in their nutrition\" and \"chocolate might be a significant source of Cd and Pb ingestion, particularly for children.\"\n\nChocolate contains polyphenols, especially flavan-3-ols (catechins) and flavonoids which are under study for their potential effects in the body. The following table shows the content of phenolics, flavonoids and theobromine in three different types of chocolate.\n\nIn sufficient amounts, the theobromine found in chocolate is toxic to animals such as cats, dogs, horses, parrots, and small rodents because they are unable to metabolise the chemical effectively. If animals are fed chocolate, the theobromine may remain in the circulation for up to 20 hours, possibly causing epileptic seizures, heart attacks, internal bleeding, and eventually death. Medical treatment performed by a veterinarian involves inducing vomiting within two hours of ingestion and administration of benzodiazepines or barbiturates for seizures, antiarrhythmics for heart arrhythmias, and fluid diuresis.\n\nA typical dog will normally experience great intestinal distress after eating less than of dark chocolate, but will not necessarily experience bradycardia or tachycardia unless it eats at least a half a kilogram (1.1 lb) of milk chocolate. Dark chocolate has 2 to 5 times more theobromine and thus is more dangerous to dogs. According to the Merck Veterinary Manual, approximately 1.3  grams of baker's chocolate per kilogram of a dog's body weight (0.02  oz/lb) is sufficient to cause symptoms of toxicity. For example, a typical baker's chocolate bar would be enough to bring about symptoms in a dog. Of course, baking chocolate is rarely consumed directly due to its unpleasant taste, but other dark chocolates' canine toxicities may be extrapolated based on this figure. Given access, dogs frequently consume chocolate at toxic levels because they like the taste of chocolate products and are capable of finding and eating quantities much larger than typical human servings. There are reports that mulch made from cacao bean shells is dangerous to dogs and livestock.\n"}
{"id": "4726127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4726127", "title": "Healthcare in Cuba", "text": "Healthcare in Cuba\n\nThe Cuban government operates a national health system and assumes fiscal and administrative responsibility for the health care of all its citizens. There are no private hospitals or clinics as all health services are government-run. The present Minister for Public Health is Roberto Morales Ojeda.\n\nLike the rest of the Cuban economy, Cuban medical care suffered following the end of Soviet subsidies in 1991 and the stepping up of the United States embargo against Cuba at this time also had an effect.\n\nCuba has historically – both before and during Communist rule – performed better than other countries in the region on infant mortality and life expectancy. Experts say that official statistics by the Castro regime should be treated skeptically. In 2016, the World Health Organisation reported the average life expectancy at birth for Cubans as being 77 years for males and 81 for females, which is higher than that of the United States.\n\nModern Western medicine has been practiced in Cuba by formally trained doctors since at least the beginning of the 19th century and the first surgical clinic was established in 1823. Cuba has had many world class doctors, including Carlos Finlay, whose mosquito-based theory of yellow fever transmission was given its final proof under the direction of Walter Reed, James Carroll, and Aristides Agramonte. During the period of U.S presence (1898–1902) yellow fever was essentially eliminated due to the efforts of Clara Maass and surgeon Jesse William Lazear.\n\nIn the 1950s the number of doctors per thousand of the population ranked above Britain, France and the Netherlands. In Latin America it ranked in third place after Uruguay and Argentina.\nThere remained marked inequalities, however. Most of Cuba's doctors were based in the relatively prosperous cities and regional towns, and conditions in rural areas, notably Oriente, were significantly worse. The mortality rate was the third lowest in the world. According to the World Health Organization, the island had the lowest infant mortality rate of Latin America.\n\nFollowing the Revolution and the subsequent United States embargo against Cuba, an increase in disease and infant mortality worsened in the 1960s. The new Cuban government asserted that universal healthcare was to become a priority of state planning. In 1960 revolutionary and physician Che Guevara outlined his aims for the future of Cuban healthcare in an essay entitled \"On Revolutionary Medicine\", stating: \"The work that today is entrusted to the Ministry of Health and similar organizations is to provide public health services for the greatest possible number of persons, institute a program of preventive medicine, and orient the public to the performance of hygienic practices.\" These aims were hampered almost immediately by an exodus of almost half of Cuba’s physicians to the United States, leaving the country with only 3,000 doctors and 16 professors in the University of Havana’s medical college. Beginning in 1960, the Ministry of Public Health began a program of nationalization and regionalization of medical services. In 1965, Cuba became the first Latin American country to legalize abortion.\n\nIn 1976, Cuba's healthcare program was enshrined in Article 50 of the revised Cuban constitution which states \"Everyone has the right to health protection and care. The state guarantees this right by providing free medical and hospital care by means of the installations of the rural medical service network, polyclinics, hospitals, preventative and specialized treatment centers; by providing free dental care; by promoting the health publicity campaigns, health education, regular medical examinations, general vaccinations and other measures to prevent the outbreak of disease. All the population cooperates in these activities and plans through the social and mass organizations.\" Privatization of healthcare in Cuba is illegal and unnecessary as high quality, equal, care covered by the state is available to everyone as made necessary by Cuba's constitution.\n\nCuba's doctor to patient ratio grew significantly in the latter half of the 20th century, from 9.2 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants in 1958, to 58.2 per 10,000 in 1999. In the 1960s the government implemented a program of almost universal vaccinations. This helped eradicate many contagious diseases including polio, tetanus, diphtheria and rubella, though some diseases increased during the period of economic hardship of the 1990s, such as tuberculosis, hepatitis and chicken pox. Other campaigns included a program to reduce the infant mortality rate in 1970 directed at maternal and prenatal care. As of 2012, infant mortality in Cuba had fallen to 4.83 deaths per 1,000 live births compared with 6.0 for the United States and just behind Canada with 4.8. Experts have however noted that these statistics may reflect heavy-handed treatment of pregnant patients or that the statistics may be falsified. One expert, for instance, notes that pregnant women may be forced to undergo abortions if fetal abnormalities are detected or forcibly placed under monitoring. Doctors also have incentives to falsify statistics, as a spike in infant mortality will cost them their jobs. Cuba does not allow for independent verification of its health data.\n\nLoss of Soviet subsidies brought food shortages to Cuba in the early 1990s. The famine during the Special Period was caused by an authoritarian regime that denied people the food to which they were entitled when the public food distribution collapsed; priority was given to the elite classes and the military. The regime did not accept donations of food, medicines and money from the US until 1993.\n\nEpidemiologist Manuel Franco describes the Special Period as \"the first, and probably the only, natural experiment, born of unfortunate circumstances, where large effects on diabetes, cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality have been related to sustained population-wide weight loss as a result of increased physical activity and reduced caloric intake\".\n\nIn 2007, Cuba announced that it has undertaken computerizing and creating national networks in blood banks, nephrology and medical images. Cuba is the second country in the world with such a product, only preceded by France. Cuba is preparing a computerized health register, hospital management system, primary health care, academic affairs, medical genetic projects, neurosciences, and educational software. The aim is to maintain quality health service free for the Cuban people, increase exchange among experts and boost research-development projects. An important link in wiring process is to guarantee access to Cuba's Data Transmission Network and Health Website (INFOMED) to all units and workers of the national health system.\n\nDuring the 1990s the ongoing United States embargo against Cuba caused problems due to restrictions on the export of medicines from the US to Cuba. In 1992 the US embargo was made more stringent with the passage of the Cuban Democracy Act resulting in all U.S. subsidiary trade, including trade in food and medicines, being prohibited. The legislation did not state that Cuba cannot purchase medicines from U.S. companies or their foreign subsidiaries; however, such license requests have been routinely denied. In 1995 the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States informed the U.S. Government that such activities violate international law and has requested that the U.S. take immediate steps to exempt medicine from the embargo. The Lancet and the British Medical Journal also condemned the embargo in the 90s.\n\nThe embargo forced Cuba to use more of its limited resources on medical imports, both because equipment and drugs from foreign subsidiaries of U.S. firms or from non-U.S.sources tend to be higher priced and because shipping costs are greater. The Democracy Act of 1992 further exacerbated the problems in Cuba's medical system. It prohibited foreign subsidiaries of U.S. corporations from selling to Cuba, thus further limiting Cuba's access to medicine and equipment, and raising prices. In addition, the act forbid ships that dock in Cuban ports from docking in U.S. ports for six months. This drastically restricted shipping, and increased shipping costs some 30%.\n\nIn 2000, the \"Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act\" was passed. The US is now Cuba's single largest source for imported food. The Cuban American National Foundation (CANF) states that should Cuba choose not to purchase from the U.S., it can purchase any medicine or medical equipment it needs from other countries. Such third-country transactions only cost an estimated 2%–3% more than purchases from the U.S. as a result of higher shipping costs. CANF also asserts the United States is the largest donor of humanitarian assistance to Cuba and much of this consists of medicines and medical equipment.\n\nThe US government states that since 1992, 36 out of 39 license requests from U.S. companies and their subsidiaries for sales of medical items to Cuba have been approved. The dollar amount of these sales is over $1,600,000. Furthermore, the U.S. government licensed more than $227 million in humanitarian donations of medicines and medical supplies to Cuba between 1993 and 1997. There are other factors beside the embargo explaining the lack of imports, in particular Cuba's lack of hard currency. Those with dollars can easily buy medicines and food in Cuba from Latin America and Canada. Cuba defaulted on its debt to Western banks in 1986 and lacks access to the international credit system in order to get foreign currency. In addition, the collapse of the Soviet Union caused the loss of several billions of dollars in yearly subsidies and overnight required hard currency for all imports.\n\nIn a 2006 report to the U.N. Secretary-General, Cuba acknowledged the authorization of medicines, though stated that they were subject to severe restrictions and complicated procedures. Cuba is obliged to make payments in cash and in advance, and is precluded from obtaining credit funding, even from private sources. The sale and transportation of the goods require licenses to be obtained for each transaction. Cuba cannot use its own merchant fleet for transporting these goods, but has to make use of vessels from third countries, primarily the United States. Payments are made through banks in third countries, since direct banking relationships are prohibited. The Cuban delegation concluded that restrictions on importing medical products were \"so extensive that they make such imports virtually impossible\". The World Health organization/PAHO and UNFPA concurred that it was impossible for Cuba to purchase equipment, medicines and laboratory materials produced by the United States or covered by United States patents, even though those products were purchased through multilateral cooperation. Cuba was not able to purchase the isotope I-125 that is used to treat eye cancer in children. The companies manufacturing reagents and equipment are 70 per cent United States owned, which makes it difficult to purchase necessary medical equipment and other items.\n\nCuba's national health system is made up of multiple tiers: 1) the community containing individuals and families, 2) family doctor-and-nurse teams, 3) basic work teams, 4) community polyclinics, 5) hospitals, and 6) medical institutes.\n\nCuba's Family Physician and Nurse program is made up of physician and nurse teams that serve individuals, families, and their communities. They live above their government-built family medicine offices, living directly in the communities they serve and available 24 hours a day. These teams work to improve the public health concerns in the environment as well as provide medical care. They perform a neighborhood health diagnosis biannually where community risk factors are evaluated to focus priorities for improving the health of the community. Clinically, family doctor-and-nurse teams follow the Continuous Assessment and Risk Evaluation (CARE) method which monitors individual and family health by examining community and home environments, current health, and medical history. The teams make home visits to each family at least once yearly to assess and evaluate their health. Individuals with chronic illness are seen at least every three months. These teams' role combine the importance of focusing on both public health and clinical medicine.\n\nPolyclinics are community-based clinics that house primary care specialists. They exist in every Cuban community and are well-acquainted with the people and the communities they serve. They can see the social determinants and environment that affect the community's health, bettering their ability to serve their patients. Specialists at the polyclinic are there to support physicians when they are needed. Each clinic of specialists supports 20-40 doctor-and-nurse teams. Basic work teams within the polyclinics supervise and evaluate the neighborhood and clinical health work of the family medicine offices.\n\nWhile preventive medical care, diagnostic tests and medication for hospitalized patients are free, some aspects of healthcare are paid for by the patient. Items which are paid by patients who can afford it are: drugs prescribed on an outpatient basis, hearing, dental, and orthopedic processes, wheelchairs and crutches. When a patient can obtain these items at state stores, prices tend to be low as these items are subsidized by the state. For patients on a low-income, these items are free of charge.\n\nLike the rest of the Cuban economy, numerous reports have shown that Cuban medical care has long suffered from severe material shortages caused by the US embargo. The ending of Soviet subsidies in the early 1990s has also affected it.\n\nEconomic constraints and restrictions on medicines have forced the Cuban health system to incorporate alternative and herbal solutions to healthcare issues, which can be more accessible and affordable to a broader population In the 1990s, the Cuban Ministry of Public Health officially recognized natural and traditional medicine and began its integration into the already well established Western medicine model.\n\nCuba had 128 physicians and dentists per 100,000 people in 1957. This was comparable to the levels in many European countries and allegedly the highest in Latin America. In 1986, Cuba had 219 doctors per 100,000 people (compared with 423.7 doctors in the Soviet Union, which had the most doctors among industrialized countries). In 2005, Cuba had 627 physicians and 94 dentists per 100,000 population. That year the United States had 225 physicians and 54 dentists per 100,000 population; the Central American isthmus had 123 physicians and 30 dentists per 100,000. As of 2005, Cuba became the world leader in the ratio of doctors to population with 67 doctors per 10,000 population as compared with 43 in the Russian Federation and 24 in the United States.\n\nAbortion rates, which are high in Cuba, increased dramatically during the 1980s, but had almost halved by 1999 and declined to near-1970s levels of 32.0 per 1000 pregnancies. The rate is still among the highest in Latin America.\n\nAccording to the UNAIDS report of 2003 there were an estimated 3,300 Cubans living with HIV/AIDS (approx 0.05% of the population). In the mid-1980s, when little was known about the virus, Cuba compulsorily tested thousands of its citizens for HIV. Those who tested positive were taken to Los Cocos and were not allowed to leave. The policy drew criticism from the United Nations and was discontinued in the 1990s. Since 1996 Cuba began the production of generic anti-retroviral drugs reducing the costs to well below that of developing countries. This has been made possible through the substantial government subsidies to treatment.\n\nIn 2003 Cuba had the lowest HIV prevalence in the Americas and one of the lowest in the world. Education in Cuba concerning issues of HIV infection and AIDS is implemented by the Cuban National Center for Sex Education.\n\nAccording to a 2005 report by UNAIDS and the World Health Organization, \"Cuba’s epidemic remains by far the smallest in the Caribbean.\" They add however that,\n\n... new HIV infections are on the rise, and Cuba’s preventive measures appear not to be keeping pace with conditions that favour the spread of HIV, including widening income inequalities and a growing sex industry. At the same time, Cuba’s prevention of mother-to-child transmission programme remains highly effective. All pregnant women are tested for HIV, and those testing positive receive antiretroviral drugs.\nIn 2015, Cuba became the first country in the world to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis, a major public health accomplishment.\n\nIn recent years because of the rise in prostitution in Cuba due to tourism, STDs have increased.\n\nCuba's healthcare system persists, in part, due to its medical education system. In Cuba, the medical university is not a separate entity from health services, but it exists within the system. Medical and nursing students mentor and intern within the national system from the first years of their training, specifically within primary care facilities rather than hospitals. This creates a community-based teaching method rather than a typical hospital-based teaching method. Primary care, being the first level of contact to a patient, is closely located to the patient's home and work. Here, students are exposed to medicine and the social, economical, and political factors that influence health. At primary care facilities, ethics and values are a taught as a large part of the Cuban healthcare system alongside science and technology. Students graduate capable of resolving health issues and knowing when to report to a person higher in the healthcare pyramid. Students graduate with a commitment to providing and preserving quality and equity within healthcare for their communities. The largest medical university in the world exists in Cuba, the Latin American School of Medicine.\n\nCuba provides more medical personnel to the developing world than all the G8 countries combined. In the 1970s, the Cuban state initiated bilateral service contracts and various money-making strategies. Cuba has entered into agreements with United Nations agencies specializing in health: PAHO/WHO, UNICEF, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations Development Fund (UNDP). Since 1989, this collaboration has played a very important role in that Cuba, in addition to obtaining the benefits of being a member country, has strengthened its relations with institutions of excellence and has been able to disseminate some of its own advances and technologies\n\nCuban doctors have been part of a large-scale plan by the Cuban state to provide free medical aid and services to the international community (especially third world countries) following natural disasters. Currently dozens of American medical students are trained to assist in these donations at the Escuela Latino Americana de Medicina (ELAM).\n\nCuba's missions in 68 countries are manned by 25,000 Cuban doctors. Medical teams have worked in crisis such as the South Asian tsunami and the 2005 Kashmir earthquake. Nearly 2,000 Cuban doctors are currently working in Africa in countries including South Africa, Gambia, Guinea Bissau and Mali. Since the Chernobyl nuclear plant exploded in 1986, more than 20,000 children from Ukraine, Belarus and Russia have traveled to Cuba for treatment of radiation sickness and psychologically based problems associated with the radiation disaster. In response to the 2005 Hurricane Katrina disaster, Castro offered to send a \"brigade\" of 1,500 doctors to the U.S. to provide humanitarian aid, but was never accepted.\n\nCuba currently exports considerable health services and personnel to Venezuela in exchange for subsidized oil. Cuban doctors play a primary role in the Mission Barrio Adentro (Spanish: \"Mission Into the Neighborhood\") social welfare program established in Venezuela under former Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez.\n\nCuba also successfully exports many medical products, such as vaccines.\n\nCuba attracts about 20,000 paying health tourists, generating revenues of around $40 million a year for the Cuban economy. Cuba has been serving health tourists from around the world for more than 20 years. The country operates a special division of hospitals specifically for the treatment of foreigners and diplomats. Foreign patients travel to Cuba for a wide range of treatments including eye-surgery, neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease, cosmetic surgery, addictions treatment, retinitis pigmentosa and orthopaedics. Most patients are from Latin America, Europe and Canada, and a growing number of Americans also are coming. By 1998, according to the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, the Cuban health sector had risen to occupy around 2 percent of total tourism. Some of these revenues are in turn transferred to health care for ordinary Cubans, although the size and importance of these transfers is both unknown and controversial. At one nationally prominent hospital/research institute, hard currency payments by foreigners have financed the construction of a new bathroom in the splenic surgery wing; anecdotal evidence suggests that this pattern is common in Cuban hospitals.\n\nThe Cuban Ministry of Health produces a number of medical journals including the ACIMED, the Cuban Journal of Surgery and the Cuban Journal of Tropical Medicine. MEDICC Review is an English language journal which works to bring Cuban medical and public health policy, research, programs, and outcomes to the attention of the global health community. Because the U.S. government restricts investments in Cuba by U.S. companies and their affiliates, Cuban institutions have been limited in their ability to enter into research and development partnerships, although exceptions have been made for significant drugs.\n\nThe Center of molecular immunology (CIM) developed nimotuzumab, a monoclonal antibody used to treat cancer. Nimotuzumab is an inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), which is over-expressed in many cancers. Nimotuzumab is now being developed with international partners.\n\nIn April 2007, the Cuba IPV Study Collaborative Group reported in the New England Journal of Medicine that inactivated (killed) poliovirus vaccine was effective in vaccinating children in tropical conditions. The Collaborative Group consisted of the Cuban Ministry of Public Health, Kourí Institute, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Pan American Health Organization, and the World Health Organization. This is important because countries with high incidence of polio are now using live oral poliovirus vaccine. When polio is eliminated in a country, they must stop using the live vaccine, because it has a slight risk of reverting to the dangerous form of polio. The collaborative group found that when polio is eliminated in a population, they could safely switch to killed vaccine and be protected from recurrent epidemics. Cuba has been free of polio since 1963, but continues with mass immunization campaigns.\n\nIn the 1980s, Cuban scientists developed a vaccine against a strain of bacterial meningitis B, which eliminated what had been a serious disease on the island. The Cuban vaccine is used throughout Latin America. After outbreaks of meningitis B in the United States, the U.S. Treasury Department granted a license in 1999 to an American subsidiary of the pharmaceutical company SmithKline Beecham to enter into a deal to develop the vaccine for use in the U.S. and elsewhere\n\nThe issue of the effectiveness of the Cuban health system is politically polarized. According to William Ventres in his review of five books about Cuba's medical system (including one by Katherine Hirschfeld; see below), it is \"difficult to make sense of the reality of Cuban health care.\"\n\nIn 2006, BBC flagship news programme \"Newsnight\" featured Cuba's Healthcare system as part of a series identifying \"the world's best public services\". The report noted that \"Thanks chiefly to the American economic blockade, but partly also to the web of strange rules and regulations that constrict Cuban life, the economy is in a terrible mess: national income per head is minuscule, and resources are amazingly tight. Healthcare, however, is a top national priority\" The report stated that life expectancy and infant mortality rates are nearly the same as the USA's. Its doctor-to-patient ratios stand comparison to any country in Western Europe. Its annual total health spend per head, however, comes in at $251; just over a tenth of the UK's. The report concluded that the population's admirable health is one of the key reasons why Castro is still in power. A 2006 poll carried out by the Gallup Organization's Costa Rican affiliate — Consultoría Interdisciplinaria en Desarrollo (CID) — found that about three-quarters of urban Cubans responded positively to the question \"do you have confidence to your country's health care system\".\n\nIn 2000, Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan stated that \"Cuba should be the envy of many other nations\" adding that achievements in social development are impressive given the size of its gross domestic product per capita. \"Cuba demonstrates how much nations can do with the resources they have if they focus on the right priorities – health, education, and literacy.\"\nThe Kaiser Family Foundation, a non-governmental organization that evaluated Cuba’s healthcare system in 2000-1 described Cuba as \"a shining example of the power of public health to transform the health of an entire country by a commitment to prevention and by careful management of its medical resources\" President of the World Bank James Wolfensohn also praised Cuba's healthcare system in 2001, saying that \"Cuba has done a great job on education and health\", at the annual meeting of the Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Wayne Smith, former head of the US Interests Section in Havana identified \"the incredible dedication\" of Cubans to healthcare, adding that \"Doctors in Cuba can make more driving cabs and working in hotels, but they don't. They're just very dedicated\". Dr. Robert N. Butler, who was president of the International Longevity Center in New York and a Pulitzer Prize-winning author on aging, traveled to Cuba to see firsthand how doctors were trained. He said a principal reason that some health standards in Cuba approach the high American level is that the Cuban system emphasizes early intervention. Clinic visits are free, and the focus is on preventing disease rather than treating it. Furthermore, London's \"The Guardian\" newspaper lauded Cuba's public healthcare system for what it viewed as its high quality in a September 12, 2007 article.\n\nIn 2001, members of the UK House of Commons Health Select Committee travelled to Cuba and issued a report that paid tribute to \"the success of the Cuban healthcare system\", based on its \"strong emphasis on disease prevention\" and \"commitment to the practice of medicine in a community\".\n\nThe Parliament of the United Kingdom also drew up an analysis of the key features of Cuba's healthcare system, drawing comparisons with the state funded National Health Service (NHS). The overall conclusion was that many of the features identified would not have occurred had there not been an obvious commitment to health provision demonstrated by the protection and proportion of the budget given the health care. The study concluded the following.\n\nThe preceding study also pointed to problems within Cuba's health system, including:\nKatherine Hirschfeld, an anthropology professor at the University of Oklahoma, did her Ph.D. thesis on the Cuban health system, spending nine months conducting ethnographic work in Cuba in the late 1990s. According to Hirschfeld, \"public criticism of the government is a crime\nin Cuba\", which means that \"formally eliciting critical narratives about health care would be viewed as a criminal act both for me as a researcher, and for people who spoke openly with me\". Nevertheless, she was able to hear from many Cubans, including health professionals, \"serious complaints about the intrusion of politics into medical treatment and health care decision-making\". She points out that \"there is no right to privacy in the physician-patient relationship in Cuba, no patients’ right of informed consent, no right to refuse treatment, and no right to protest or sue for malpractice\". In her view medical care in Cuba can be dehumanizing.\n\nHirschfeld explains also that the Cuban Ministry of Health (MINSAP) sets statistical targets that are viewed as production quotas. The most guarded is infant mortality rate. To illustrate this, Hirschfeld describes a case where a doctor said that if the ultrasound examination revealed \"some fetal abnormalities\", the woman \"would have an abortion\", to avoid an increase in the infant mortality rate.\n\nHirschfeld referred to well-documented research about the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China, showing that \"revolutionary\" efforts \"can also include such practices as deliberate manipulation of health statistics, aggressive political intrusion into health care decision-making, criminalizing dissent, and other forms of authoritarian policing of the health sector designed to insure health changes reflect the (often utopian) predictions of Marxist theory\". But, according to Hirshfeld, \"the true extent of these practices was virtually unknown in the West\", where \"social scientists frequently cited favorable health statistics supplied by [these regimes], without critically looking at the ways these were created and maintained by state power\".\n\nHirschfeld concludes that \"Cuba’s health indicators are at least in some cases obtained by imposing significant costs on the Cuban population – costs that Cuban citizens are powerless to articulate or protest, and foreign researchers unable to empirically investigate.\"\n\nComplaints have also arisen that foreign \"health tourists\" paying with dollars and senior Communist party officials receive a higher quality of care than Cuban citizens. Former leading Cuban neurosurgeon and dissident Dr Hilda Molina asserts that the central revolutionary objective of free, quality medical care for all has been eroded by Cuba's need for foreign currency. Molina says that following the economic collapse known in Cuba as the Special Period, the Cuban Government established mechanisms designed to turn the medical system into a profit-making enterprise. This creates an enormous disparity in the quality of healthcare services between foreigners and Cubans leading to a form of tourist apartheid. In 1998 she said that foreign patients were routinely inadequately or falsely informed about their medical conditions to increase their medical bills or to hide the fact that Cuba often advertises medical services it is unable to provide. Others makes similar claims, also stating that senior Communist party and military officials can access this higher quality system free of charge. In 2005, an account written by Cuban exile and critic of Fidel Castro, Carlos Wotzkow, appeared showing apparent unsanitary and unsafe conditions in the \"Clínico Quirúrgico\" of Havana; the article claims that health care for Cubans occurs in worse conditions in the rest of the country.\n\nAn article in Canadian newspaper \"National Post\", based upon interviews of Cubans, finds that in reality even the most common pharmaceutical items, such as aspirin and antibiotics are conspicuously absent or only available on the black market. Surgeons lack basic supplies and must re-use latex gloves. Patients must buy their own sutures on the black market and provide bedsheets and food for extended hospital stays. The Cuban government blames the shortages on the embargo and states that those with more severe chronic diseases receive medicines. However, other sources suggest that those with such diseases lack medicines. It is also suggested that in some cases the local non-dollar stocks have been shipped abroad.\n\nThe U.S. State Department has argued that during the economic depression \"the Cuban government made a deliberate decision to continue to spend money to maintain its military and internal security apparatus at the expense of other priorities – including healthcare.\" However, one study found that \"the available data show that the fall in Cuba's medicine imports in the '90s didn't correspond to a significant lowering of the government's healthcare spending. Budgetary support for peso-denominated spending – i.e., labor costs of medical professionals, operational costs of hospitals and clinics – has remained strong. Attempts to blame medical shortages in Cuba on resource misallocation are thus misguided, or at least wrongly nuanced.\"\n\nA recent ABC-TV 20/20 report on Healthcare, based on footage taken from within the island, criticized Michael Moore's portrayals of the Cuban Healthcare system in the movie Sicko. In that film, Moore took a number of Americans to a hospital in Havana where they bought affordable drugs, and were given treatments for free that they could not afford in America. The report highlights the dilapidated conditions of some hospitals that are accessible to regular Cubans by pointing to the bleak conditions of hospital rooms and the filthy conditions of the facilities. The report also addressed the quality of care available to Cubans by arguing that patient neglect was a common phenomenon. Finally, in discussing the infant mortality rate, the report highlights the government's alleged efforts to promote abortions of potentially infirm fetuses and other alleged government efforts to manipulate the rate.\n\nCuban medical professionals are not paid high salaries by international standards. In 2002 the mean monthly salary was 261 pesos, 1.5 times the national mean.\nA doctor’s salary in the late 1990s was equivalent to about US$15–20 per month in purchasing power. Therefore, some prefer to work in different occupations, for example in the lucrative tourist industry where earnings can be much higher.\n\nCuban doctors that have been sent on international missions by the Cuban government have reported being paid less than the local doctors and treated poorly by the local government. They are sometimes monitored by the local government in case of defecting. The \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"Washington Post\", and National Public Radio have all reported on Cuban doctors defecting to other countries when on international missions. Cuban doctors at home have experienced an increased work-load to cover for the doctors abroad, although there is no evidence that this has negatively affected health outcomes.\n\nA 2018 paper using a synthetic control method found that infant mortality increased in the first years of the Castro regime relative to other similar countries, but that infant mortality reverted to trend during the 1970s irrespective of foreign aid.\n\nThe difficulty in gaining access to certain medicines and treatments has led to healthcare playing an increasing role in Cuba's burgeoning black market economy, sometimes termed \"sociolismo\". According to former leading Cuban neurosurgeon and dissident Dr Hilda Molina, \"The doctors in the hospitals are charging patients under the table for better or quicker service.\" Prices for out-of-surgery X-rays have been quoted at $50 to $60. Such \"under-the-table payments\" reportedly date back to the 1970s, when Cubans used gifts and tips in order to get health benefits. The harsh economic downturn known as the \"Special Period\" in the 1990s aggravated these payments. The advent of the \"dollar economy\", a legalization of the dollar which led some Cubans to receive dollars from their relatives outside of Cuba, meant that a class of Cubans were able to obtain medications and health services that would not be available to them otherwise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46530038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46530038", "title": "Hypocementosis", "text": "Hypocementosis\n\nHypocementosis is a reduction in the amount of cementum on a tooth root. It is a feature of conditions such as cleidocranial dysplasia and hypophosphatasia.\n"}
{"id": "44827785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44827785", "title": "IDonate (Pakistan)", "text": "IDonate (Pakistan)\n\niDonate is a non-profit organization in Pakistan that helps people in blood donations, Community service, disaster management, Education and Income Support.\n\niDonate was established as a Non Profit Organisation by Imran Sarwar in 2011 in Lahore. The core objective of establishing this organisation was to help donors meet the blood donee's and arrange hassle free blood donations. With the passage of time, the organisation has developed various other departments such as \"Health Care\", \"Free Education\", \"Disaster Management\" And \"Income Support Programme\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26334572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334572", "title": "India Mark II", "text": "India Mark II\n\nThe India Mark II is a human-powered pump designed to lift water from a depth of fifty metres or less. The Mark II is world's most widely used water handpump. The pump was designed in the 1970s to serve village water needs in developing countries and rural areas. The pump is installed on top of a drilled well or borehole and lifts water from the bottom of the well through repeatedly moving the pump handle up and down. Several manufacturers, primarily in India, manufacture the pump which now falls under public domain. By the mid 1990s, five million of the pumps had been manufactured and installed.India Mark ll Pumps' bored hole may be fitted with solar thermal siphon pump to run on solar energy. The resulting assembly may be called India Mark IV Solar Pump of Dr.gps-design..\n\nThe pump was designed in the 1970s in a joint effort between the Government of India, UNICEF, and The World Health Organization (WHO) to address the severe drought and a water shortage affecting India during that period and to prevent evacuation of villages to refugee camps. Prior to the pumps design, poor quality cast-iron replicas of pumps used in Europe and North America to support a single family were used. While these types of pumps in the US might have been used by a farming family three or four times a day, those in India were used incessantly by an entire community, with women and children lining up to use each pump from dawn till dusk. Not surprisingly, the pumps frequently broke down. When UNICEF did a survey of boreholes and pumps in two Indian states, it found that 75 per cent of the pumps were out of action.\nThe requirements for the pump included the need for a design simple enough to be manufactured in unsophisticated workshops, easy to maintain, and costing no more than US$200 (in 1970s dollars). The Mark II was based on the Sholapur pump, the most durable pump at that time, designed by Swedish volunteer, engineer, and inventor Oscar Carlsson of the Sholapur Well Service, operating under the Mission Covenant Church of Sweden and the Hindustani Covenant Church of India. In just 20 years, 1 million of the pumps had been manufactured and installed in the developing world. An Indian magazine listed India Mark II hand pump as one of the defining inventions of the country.\n\nThe pump's primary components consist of the pump handle, the riser main which carries the water to the surface, the pump cylinder which pushes water up the riser main, and the connecting rod which connects the pump handle to the pump cylinder at the bottom of the well. After a borehole is drilled, a well casing is inserted into the hole to prevent the erosion of the borehole walls. The India Mark II needs a borehole with a minimum diameter of 10 cm. The casing has a well screen to allow water to pass into the casing but keeps rocks and dirt out. A pump cylinder is attached to the bottom of a series of pipes call riser mains or riser pipes and sits below the water surface in the well once installed. The riser main will carry the water from the pump cylinder to the surface. Inside the riser main, a series of rods connect the pump handle to the top of the pump cylinder at the bottom of the well. The reciprocating up and down movement of the pump handle raises and lowers the connecting rod thus raising and lowering the plunger of the pump cylinder. Two one-way water valves inside the cylinder suck water into the cylinder on the upstroke and force the water into the riser main on the down stroke. Water flows up the riser main and out of the spout at the top of the well head assembly.\n\nWhile the pump performance is much better than the European designed family pumps that were installed prior to this new design, the India Mark II has several flaws. Many versions of the pump use cast iron riser mains (the pipe that carries water from the bottom of the borehole to the surface). These pipes rust quickly (sometimes in just 2 years), and either leak water or separate completely from the pump rendering it useless. The pump requires routine maintenance and will fall into disrepair if certain procedures are not followed. A pump cylinder rests at the bottom of the borehole and may needs to be replaced every two years. To remove the cylinder, the riser main also needs to be lifted from the borehole. As one can imagine, lifting up to 100 ft of iron pipe and cylinder from a well is no easy task and requires special tools, a tripod stand, the replacement parts, and most importantly, the know-how to do it. In many developing countries and remote villages, these requirements cannot be met and the pumps often remain broken. Some estimates put the number of broken pumps at 150,000. \n\nMajor criticism of the India Mark II is that its design makes it difficult to repair at the village level and hence, without government support, NGO intervention, or community savings systems in place, the pump is more susceptible to extended periods of non-function or permanent failure.\n\nLower upfront hardware costs and widespread adoption of the Mark II pump makes replacement parts more accessible. Unfortunately, higher maintenance costs and frequency of parts that need to be replaced can make the pump financially unsustainable in a poor community. \n\nMore reliable pumps have been developed to be maintained at the local level: village level operations and maintenance (VLOM). The India Mark III, Afridev, and Bluepump are the most common VLOM pumps. The pumps incorporate the use of larger PVC riser mains to allow for the pump cylinder to be removed without lifting the rising main out of the borehole. This makes maintenance on the pumps easier but the initial cost for the pipes can be twice as much. Routine maintenance is still required and maintaining funds for replacement parts is still necessary. Without the need for a specialized pump mechanic these newer pump designs can provide longer lasting sustainable access to drinking water. Unfortunately, some countries have restricted importation and installation of these pumps citing the need to standardize pumps to reduce cost and ensure an adequate supply of replacement parts. The government of Uganda, for example, enforces the standardization by placing high tariffs on pumps other than a variant of the India Mark II, known as U2.\n\n\nThe India Mark II is a Public Domain design handpump. The international design is maintained by the Rural Water Supply Network (RWSN), however India, Ghana and Uganda have their own national standards for the India Mark II and its variants.\n"}
{"id": "23760871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23760871", "title": "Jacob Sheskin", "text": "Jacob Sheskin\n\nProfessor Jacob Sheskin, sometimes known as Sheskin Jacob (; 1914 in Vilna, Russia – April 17, 1999 in Jerusalem) was an Israeli physician best known for his 1964 serendipitous discovery that thalidomide can be used as a treatment for leprosy at Hadassah University in Jerusalem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29495144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29495144", "title": "Kusatsu Special Prison", "text": "Kusatsu Special Prison\n\nKusatsu Special Prison was a prison present between 1938 and 1947, built in Kuryu Rakusen-en Sanatorium in Kusatsu Onsen, Kusatsu town, Gunma Prefecture, Japan, where criminals in public leprosariums throughout Japan were imprisoned. Prisons for conventional crimes had been built earlier in all public leprosariums. 22 out of 93 prisoners died of cold or maltreatment in the cells or after confinement. In Japanese, it was called Tokubetsu Byoshitsu (特別病室,Special Ward) or Jyu Kanbo (重監房,Prison for Severe Crimes).\n\nIn 1909, the first public leprosy policy started in Japan, creating public leprosariums (sanatoriums) which accommodated wandering lepers; some of them criminals. In 1915, the treatment of criminals was discussed by leprosarium directors. In 1916, the leprosy prevention law was amended and this time, decisions of confinement and custody could be made by directors of leprosariums, reduction of meals (this was discontinued in 1947) and 30-day confinement in a leprosarium. Between 1912 and 1951, several riots took place in leprosariums.\n\nKusatsu Special Prison was completed at the end of 1938. There were 8 independent cells; each cell was less than 4.5m in size, with wooden floors with a hole as a latrine. There was a small hole for the distribution of meals. There was no heating system. The cells had tall walls and were physically separate from each other, each cell being a separate building entity. The temperature would often reach -20 °C. Administration, maintenance and repression were roles partaken by male nurses.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539355", "title": "Microbiologist", "text": "Microbiologist\n\nA microbiologist (from Greek ) is a scientist who studies microscopic life forms and processes. This includes study of the growth, interactions and characteristics of microscopic organisms such as bacteria, algae, fungi, and some types of parasites and their vectors. Most microbiologists work in offices and/or research facilities, both in private biotechnology companies as well as in academia. Most microbiologists specialize in a given topic within microbiology such as bacteriology, parasitology, virology, or immunology.\n\nMicrobiologists generally work in some way to increase scientific knowledge, or to utilize that knowledge in a way that improves outcomes in medicine or some industry. For many microbiologists, this work includes planning and conducting experimental research projects in some kind of laboratory setting. Others may have a more administrative role, supervising scientists and evaluating their results. Microbiologists working in the medical field, such as clinical microbiologists, may see patients or patient samples and do various tests to detect disease-causing organisms.\n\nFor microbiologists working in academia, duties include performing research in an academic laboratory, writing grant proposals to fund research, as well as some amount of teaching and designing courses. Microbiologists in industry roles may have similar duties except research is performed in industrial labs in order to develop or improve commercial products and processes. Industry jobs may also include some degree of sales and marketing work, as well as regulatory compliance duties. Microbiologists working in government may have a variety of duties, including laboratory research, writing and advising, developing and reviewing regulatory processes, and overseeing grants offered to outside institutions. Some microbiologists work in the field of patent law, either with national patent offices or private law practices. Here duties include research and navigation of intellectual property regulations. Clinical microbiologists tend to work in government or hospital laboratories where their duties include analyzing clinical specimens to detect microorganisms responsible for disease. Some microbiologists instead work in the field of science outreach, where they develop programs and material to educate students and non-scientists and stimulate interest in the field of microbiology.\n\nEntry-level microbiology jobs generally require at least a bachelor's degree in microbiology or a related field. These degree programs frequently include courses in chemistry, physics, statistics, biochemistry, and genetics, followed by more specialized courses in sub-fields of interest. Many of these courses have laboratory components to teach trainees basic and specialized laboratory skills.\n\nHigher-level and independent jobs generally require a Ph.D. as well as several years experience as a microbiologist. This often includes time spent as a postdoctoral researcher wherein one leads research projects and prepares to transition to an independent career. Postdoctoral researchers are often evaluated largely based on their record of published academic papers, as well as recommendations from their supervisors and colleagues.\n\nIn certain sub-fields of microbiology, licenses or certifications are available or required in order to qualify for certain positions. This is true for clinical microbiologists, as well as those involved in food safety and some aspects of pharmaceutical/medical device development.\n\nMicrobiologists will continue to be needed to advance basic science knowledge and to contribute to development of pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. However, job prospects vary widely by job and location.\n\nIn the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that employment of microbiologists will grow 4 percent from 2014 (22,400 employed) to 2024 (23,200 employed). This represents slower growth than the average occupation, as well as slower growth than life scientists as a whole (6 percent projected).\n\n"}
{"id": "45220214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45220214", "title": "National Disabled Women's Educational Equity Project", "text": "National Disabled Women's Educational Equity Project\n\nThe National Disabled Women's Educational Equity Project was established by Corbett O'Toole in Berkeley, California in 1980. It was a three-year research and demonstration project. Based at the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund (DREDF), the Project administered the first national survey on disability and gender. It also conducted the first national Conference on Disabled Women's Educational Equity, which was held in Bethesda, Maryland. It developed written materials for educators and counselors relevant to the needs of disabled women and girls. It also developed a book about role models for disabled teenage girls called \"No More Stares.\"\n"}
{"id": "12038713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12038713", "title": "National Fire Fighter Near-Miss Reporting System", "text": "National Fire Fighter Near-Miss Reporting System\n\nThe Fire Fighter Near Miss Reporting System was launched on August 12, 2005 by the International Association of Fire Chiefs. It was announced at a press conference in Denver, Colorado, after having completed a pilot program involving 38 fire departments across the country. The Near Miss Reporting System aims to prevent injuries and save lives of other firefighters by collecting, sharing and analyzing near-miss experiences. The near-miss experiences are collected by firefighters who voluntarily submit them; the reports are confidential, non-punitive, and secure. After the reports are compiled, they are posted to the website where firefighters can access them and learn from each other's real-life experiences. Overall these reports help to formulate strategies, reduce firefighter injuries and fatalities, and enhance the safety culture of the fire service. The program is based on the Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS), which has been gathering reports of close calls from pilots, flight attendants, air traffic controllers since 1976. The reporting system is funded by the International Association of Fire Chiefs.\n\nA near-miss event is defined as an opportunity to improve health and safety practices based on a condition or an incident with potential for more serious consequence.\".\n\nA near-miss report consists of five sections:\nEvery Wednesday there is a new Report of the Week. These reports are available online and can be emailed for free with a Report of the Week subscription. They are ideal tools used for training and for informational purposes.\n\nThe reports chosen are recent and contain discussion questions for further thought. They are also matched with 5 similar reports from previous years. These reports give readers insight to what is currently going on, and how people are dealing with their near-misses. The discussion questions help readers understand what actions need to be taken in order to prevent further near-misses. Many subscribers use the reports for informal training drills, forward the reports to other fire departments, or use them for their own informational needs.\n\nThe Fire Fighter Near-Miss Reporting System website offers many different resources to its users. As mentioned above, there is a Report of the Week, which offers a training tool for departments all over the country. In addition to the Report of the Week, there are illustrated case studies, videos, grouped reports, and photos. \n\nVideos and Photos: You can find many different visuals here that can help you understand the reports.<br>\nNear-Miss Calendar: The Near-Miss calendar contains case studies and other information about the program.\n\nThe U.S. Navy's Human Factors Analysis and Classification System (HFACS) was selected as the first tool for analyzing firefighter near-miss reports. HFACS takes four levels of individual and institutional performance into consideration.\n\nThe \"unsafe acts\" level contains two categories: errors and violations. The determination that an unsafe act has occurred is not an indictment of an individual firefighter or firefighters. So far, statistics have shown that 80% of reported near misses have occurred when firefighters were following established procedures.\nErrors are classified as resulting from lack of skill, education or training, poor decision making, or misperception. Each in turn can be broken down into omissions, failure to prioritize, poor technique, misinterpretation of conditions, wrong response to conditions, and decision errors.\n\nThe \"preconditions to unsafe acts\" level focuses on the individuals involved. Was the individual focused or distracted? Was the individual hurried? Was the individual physically ill or otherwise unfit for duty? Was the individual somehow incompatible with the assigned task? The team is also analyzed. For example, are the team members familiar with, and do they practice crew resource management and personal readiness?\n\nThe \"unsafe supervision\" level mirrors the military's emphasis on the officer's role in all aspects of operations. Specifically it looks at factors like inadequate supervision, poor planning, failure to correct problems, and other supervisory problems.\n\nThe \"organizational influences\" level is the final level of evaluation. It acknowledges that a fire departments top management is ultimately responsible for organizational culture, and may have contributed to some degree to a firefighter's actions that led to a near-miss event.\n\nBased on the first year of data, the various working groups of the National Fire Fighter Near-Miss Reporting System have offered the following recommendations for error-management and to improve firefighter performance and safety.\n\n\n http://www.firefighternearmiss.com/index.php/home\n\n"}
{"id": "46185048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46185048", "title": "Nummular keratitis", "text": "Nummular keratitis\n\nNummular keratitis is a feature of viral keratoconjunctivitis. It is a common feature of adenoviral keratoconjunctivitis (an ocular adenovirus infection), as well as approximately 1/3rd of cases of Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus infections. It represents the presence of anterior stromal infiltrates. Unilateral or bilateral subepithelial lesions of the cornea may be present. Slit lamp examination reveals multiple tiny granular deposits surrounded by a halo of stromal haze. After healing, residual 'nummular scars' often remain. Disciform keratitis occurs in 50% of individuals with Nummular keratitis, but Nummular keratitis always precedes Disciform keratitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "18605574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18605574", "title": "Outpatient clinic (hospital department)", "text": "Outpatient clinic (hospital department)\n\nAn outpatient department or outpatient clinic is the part of a hospital designed for the treatment of outpatients, people with health problems who visit the hospital for diagnosis or treatment, but do not at this time require a bed or to be admitted for overnight care. Modern outpatient departments offer a wide range of treatment services, diagnostic tests and minor surgical procedures.\n\nThe outpatient clinic of a hospital, also called an outpatient department provides diagnosis and care for patients that do not need to stay overnight. This is distinct from clinics independent of hospitals, almost all of which are designed mostly or exclusively for outpatient care and may also be called outpatient clinics. \n\nThe outpatient department is an important part of the overall running of the hospital. It is normally integrated with the in-patient services and manned by consultant physicians and surgeons who also attend inpatients in the wards. Many patients are examined and given treatment as outpatients before being admitted to the hospital at a later date as inpatients. When discharged, they may attend the outpatient clinic for follow-up treatment.\n\nThe outpatient department will usually be on the ground floor of the hospital with car-parking facilities nearby. Wheelchairs and stretchers are available for non-ambulatory patients. Patients will register at a reception desk and there is seating for them while they wait for their appointments. Each doctor will have a consulting room and there may be smaller waiting areas near these. Paediatric clinics are often held in areas separated from the adult clinics. Close at hand will be X-ray facilities, laboratories, the medical record office and a pharmacy. In the main waiting area there are a range of facilities for the patients and their families including toilets, public telephones, coffee shop or snack bar, water dispenser, gift shop, florist and quiet room.\n\nNot all hospitals have separate outpatient departments, so outpatients may be treated in the same departments as patients that stay overnight.\n\nThe Royal College of Physicians said that UK outpatient clinics were stuck \"in the 18th Century\" and an expensive waste of time and money. There were 127 million appointments in 2017 and about 20% of them were cancelled or the patient did not turn up. 57% of them ran late. They wanted more use of remote monitoring, telephone and video consultations and senior nurses running clinics closer to people's homes.\n\nNHS England proposed changes to payment systems in 2018 aimed at reducing the number of consultant-led appointments and incentivising hospitals to conduct more appointments remotely.\n"}
{"id": "27920352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27920352", "title": "Paul R. Abramson", "text": "Paul R. Abramson\n\nPaul Richard Abramson (born December 24, 1949 in Norwalk, Connecticut) is a UCLA psychology professor, expert witness, author, and musician.\n\nThe oldest son of Leonard Abramson and Ethel Esther Sakowitz, Abramson grew up in Norwalk, Connecticut, graduating from Norwalk High School in 1967. He received a bachelor’s degree in psychology from the University of Miami in 1971, a master’s degree in psychology from Connecticut College in 1973, and a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Connecticut in 1976. His research focused on the interplay between sexuality and personality.  \n\nIn 1976, Abramson became an assistant professor of psychology at UCLA. He then moved through the ranks of associate and full professor at UCLA. Abramson taught courses on Art and Trauma (undergraduate), Human Sexuality (undergraduate and graduate), Independent Study (undergraduate and graduate), Introduction to Psychology (undergraduate), Personality (undergraduate and graduate), Personality Assessment (graduate), Sex and the Law (undergraduate and graduate) and Supervised Doctoral Research (graduate).\n\nAbramson was also a Visiting Professor of Psychology at Kyoto University in Japan in 1983, Editor of the \"Journal of Sex Research\" from 1988-1992, and Technical Advisor to the World Health Organization’s Global Programme on AIDS in 1991. He received the Gold Medal Award for Feature Articles in Scholarly Journals in 1997, and KPFK’s Reading Service Helen Keller Award in 2013.\n\nAbramson is married to Tania Love Abramson. He has two children.\n\nWith few exceptions, Abramson rarely conducted traditional psychological research. Problems were his bailiwick, and criticism his touchstone. He employed methods – mathematical models, narrative theories, constitutional scholarship, archival research, epidemiology, psychological interviews, ethnography, the philosophy of aesthetics – that suited the conundrums he grappled with.\n\nWhy is severe trauma so protracted and unpredictable? Are multiple one-night stands with a condom riskier than serial monogamy without them? Can the philosophy of aesthetics be extended to severe trauma? Why is sex so pleasurable? Why don’t Americans have 9 amendment constitutionally protected sexual rights? How does a person who is blind experience sexual attraction? Why is sexual violence so ubiquitous?\n\n\n\nAbramson, along with Donald Mosher, were among the first psychology professors to add scientific rigor to the study of human sexuality. Though Kinsey conducted research on the way Americans expressed their sexuality, and Masters & Johnson did the same for the underlying physiology, Abramson and Mosher extended this line of work by introducing psychological variables into the mix, guilt in particular. The experience of sexual guilt, for example, is one of the best ways to account for the variability in human sexual expression. Abramson expanded upon this research by studying this process cross-culturally, in Japan in particular. Many other studies on the psychology of human sexuality followed. Most notable of all, however, is the work he did on sexual pleasure with his former student Steven Pinkerton. Their book \"With Pleasure\" answers the most basic question about sex, namely, why does it feel so good? This book reframed the dialogue and research agenda on the study of sex.\n\nHaving published a series of studies on genital herpes in the mid-1980s, Abramson was well positioned to transition into research on HIV/AIDS. Challenging some of the earlier epidemiological scenarios on the proliferation of HIV, Abramson and colleagues (notably Steve Pinkerton, Edward Kaplan and Bruce Rothschild) developed a Bernoulli process model of HIV infection and risk reduction, a mathematical model of AIDS education, and an alternative mathematical prediction of HIV infection. The importance of condoms were stressed throughout, including (in 1993) a series of challenges to the funding priorities underlying an HIV prevention vaccine to the exclusion of alternative prevention strategies, such as better condoms or HIV preventing gels. Abramson also served as a Technical Advisor to the World Health Organization’s Global Program on AIDS.\n\nThe U.S. Constitution guarantees certain fundamental rights, such as the freedoms of speech and religious expression. But what guarantees our sexual freedoms? The text of the Constitution makes no reference to sex, family, or procreation. Though the right to privacy is tangential to sex, it is not in the Constitution or a putative sexual right either. It is simply a barrier to being observed or intruded upon by the government without just cause. Sexual conduct per se is still perceived as having no Constitutional protection whatsoever.\n\nAbramson is trying to change that through his books and teaching. Arguing that sexual freedom is cut from the same cloth as other freedoms protected by the Bill of Rights, Abramson and his former students (Steve Pinkerton and Mark Huppin) argued (in the book \"Sexual Rights in America\") that the freedom to choose how, when and with whom to express sexuality is a quintessential right protected by the Ninth Amendment. The Ninth Amendment states the following: “the enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.” Abramson wryly notes that without sexual rights, there would be no “people.” More importantly, he asserts that the manner in which we make choices about sex (among consenting adults and void of tangible harm) is the way we exercise this fundamental right protected by the Ninth Amendment (and extended to States by the Fourteenth Amendment.)\n\nAbramson extended this argument in a second book titled \"Romance in the Ivory Tower: The rights and liberty of conscience\". He asserted that the choices we make about love and sex are no less intimate or deeply personal as the choices we make about God or religion. Together with the Ninth Amendment, and the right to privacy, the rights and liberty of conscience combine to create a zone of personal autonomy that is immune from governmental intrusion; including decisions or actions related sex, God or love.\n\nTo further this area of inquiry, Abramson also created at UCLA the first class in the United States devoted to the study of the interface between sex and the law, as it relates to criminal, civil, and constitutionally relevant litigation.\n\nAbramson’s 1984 book, \"Sarah: A Sexual Biography\" was one of the first in-depth psychological portrayals of the ravages of childhood sexual abuse. A true-life story, it was also a testimonial to the psychological survival of the victim. Though Americans have grown accustomed to the enormity of childhood sexual abuse through its depiction in newspapers, novels, memoirs and movies, this was not the case in 1984. When the Los Angeles Times reviewed the book shortly after publication it remarked, “How can so much intimate, destructive violence be part of our here and now, almost before our eyes? No novelist would dare, because fiction can neither resolve, nor even make reasonable, this material.”\n\nAbramson continued to write about the impact of childhood sexual abuse, most notably the nation’s largest child pornography case which involved over 3000 images of children, discovered at the home of the director of a prominent preschool. Another book he wrote about this subject matter, with co-author Steven Pinkerton (a psychiatry professor at the Medical College of Wisconsin), is A House Divided: Suspicions of mother-daughter incest. The book details a child sexual molestation case (drawn from his three decades of serving as an expert witness in civil and criminal litigation) gone shockingly awry, and concludes with recommendations for policy changes to minimize false accusations.\n\nTogether with his former wife photographer Ann Purdy, Abramson wrote and directed the short experimental film \"Regret is My Demon\" that premiered at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival in 2008. Composed almost entirely of still photographs with voice-over narration, \"Regret is My Demon\" tells the story of a teenage girl who blames herself for her mother's heroin addiction and untimely death. Chris Marker's \"La Jetee\" (1962), Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Fall of the House of Usher\" and Cindy Sherman's \"Untitled Film Stills\" (1977–1982) are obvious influences. \"Regret is My Demon\" was produced and edited by Blisss Productions.\n\nAbramson is the lead singer and lyricist of the band \"Crying 4 Kafka.\" They have six CDs, all produced by Paul du Gre for the record labels \"Waiting for Godzilla\" and \"Hellflowers in LA.\" Additional songs were produced by Abramson and Ian Putnam for \"Vending Machine Sound\". The CDs and songs are available on iTunes.\n\nAbramson wrote the play \"The Saint of Fucked Up Karma\" (2017). He also composed the music with Robin Finck of \"Nine Inch Nails\" and \"Crying 4 Kafka\". \"The Saint of Fucked Up Karma\" was performed as a musical in Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, California in 2013.\n\nAbramson’s drawings illustrate two books, \"The Saint of Fucked Up Karma\" (2017) and Erika Blair’s \"The Sanctity of Rhyme: The Metaphysics of Crying 4 Kafka\" (2018)\".\"\n\nAbramson has written for the \"Boston Globe, LA Times,\" and the \"LA Weekly.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54756119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54756119", "title": "Polluter pays amendment", "text": "Polluter pays amendment\n\nPolluter pays amendment was passed negating the \"polluter pays\" provision of the Florida Constitution in 2003.. The original provision required those in the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA) who cause water pollution to be responsible for paying the costs of that pollution's abatement. The Supreme Court concluded that the provision requires \"implementing legislation\"; the Legislature has not adopted statutes implementing the provision, instead forcing taxpayers to pay 66% of the costs of dealing with contamination in the Everglades.\n\nA study commissioned by the Everglades Foundation found that the agricultural industry is responsible for 76 percent of phosphorus contamination in the Everglades (the rest being urban runoff and wastewater), yet pays only 24 percent of the cost of dealing with it. This is despite Florida's polluter pays amendment requiring the polluters themselves to be \"primarily responsible\" for cleanup of the wetlands.\n\nThe Everglades Forever Act was passed in 1994 as an effort to restore the state's struggling wetlands. In 1996, nearly 70% of Floridians voted to approve the polluter pays amendment to the Constitution. The amendment stated: \"Those in the Everglades Agricultural Area who cause water pollution within the Everglades Protection Area or the Everglades Agricultural Area shall be primarily responsible for paying the costs of the abatement of that pollution.\" Sugar farming occurs on approximately 450,000 acres of the EAA.\n\nFlorida's attorney general Robert A. Butterworth stated in 1996 that \"while the Legislature may enact provisions implementing Amendment #5, the amendment itself establishes an obligation on polluters of the Everglades to pay the costs of abating such pollution irrespective of legislative action\". However, in 2003, the Supreme Court deemed the provision \"not self-executing and required implementing legislation\". No such legislation has been implemented.\n"}
{"id": "8935922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935922", "title": "Rebecca Judd", "text": "Rebecca Judd\n\nRebecca Judd (née Twigley; born 27 January 1983) is an Australian model, television presenter, speech pathologist and the wife of former Australian Football League player Chris Judd. She is currently host of Victorian-based travel program \"Postcards\" and was previously weekend weather presenter on \"Nine News Melbourne\".\n\nIn September 2004, Judd received considerable media attention due to her wearing a revealing red Tarvydas dress to the Brownlow Medal presentation. The dress was custom-made by Perth designer Ruth Tarvydas and was valued at A$2000. Although Chris Judd, at that time her boyfriend, won the Brownlow Medal, much of the media attention focused on Judd's dress.\n\nFollowing the Brownlow presentation, Judd received a number of offers from Australian television networks. Her first television role was as a guest presenter on Nine Perth program \"Just Add Water\". Judd also presented a news report about Melbourne Cup fashion for \"Seven News\" in October 2006.\n\nThe following year, Judd started presenting the weekend weather for \"Seven News\" in Perth. Her presenting role drew criticism from some public, who complained that she looked anorexic. She spoke out against the claims, saying that she had never suffered from an eating disorder and she believed the fuss was due to her relationship with Chris Judd. \"Seven News\" director Shaun Menegola said it was a shame Judd had been attacked by some viewers and explained that her tall stature meant she looked thinner on camera.\n\nShe is also a fashion ambassador for Myer, attending events such as the Melbourne Cup and the Australian Open golf.\n\nIn 2011, Judd joined the Nine Network as host of Victorian-based travel program \"Postcards\". In the second quarter of 2013, she filled in for Livinia Nixon presenting the weather on \"Nine Afternoon News\" and \"Nine News Melbourne\" whilst Nixon was on maternity leave with her second child.\n\nIn April 2014, Judd was appointed weekend weather presenter on \"Nine News Melbourne\".\n\nIn May 2014, Judd designed a capsule fashion collection with Australian fashion brand Skin and Threads.\n\nIn November 2016, Judd resigned from \"Nine News Melbourne\" to spend more time with her family. She will continue to host \"Postcards\".\n\nIn January 2017, Judd joined the KIIS Network to host the 3PM Pick-Up along Katie 'Monty' Dimond and Yumi Stynes.\n\nIn September 2007, Judd announced that she would be moving to Melbourne with then boyfriend Chris Judd. She completed her studies in speech and language pathology at La Trobe University in 2008 and worked in adult rehabilitation at the Alfred Hospital.\n\nOn 31 December 2010, Judd (née Twigley) married Chris Judd at Melbourne's Carousel at Albert Park. They have a son, Oscar Dylan (born July 2011), and a daughter, Billie Kate (born February 2014). In April 2016, the couple announced they were expecting twins in October. On 29 September 2016, Judd gave birth to twins Tom Andrew and Darcy Hugh Judd.\n"}
{"id": "49433785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49433785", "title": "Research Centre for Emerging and Reemerging Infectious Diseases", "text": "Research Centre for Emerging and Reemerging Infectious Diseases\n\nThe Research Centre for Emerging and Reemerging Infectious Diseases is part of the Pasteur Institute of Iran.\n\nOne year after World War I and despite the persistent problems caused by casualties and infectious diseases in the country resulting from war, the Iranian government decided to renew its relationship with France to promote medical sciences and research concerning different types of endemic infectious diseases. The Iranian delegates met Pierre Paul Émile Roux, the general director of the Pasteur Institute of Paris, in 1919 and this visit laid the foundation of Pasteur Institute of Iran.\n\nOn 20 January 1921, Professor René Legroux, the leading delegate of the Pasteur Institute of Paris, signed a memorandum of understanding with the minister for foreign affairs of Iran and as a result, Pasteur Institute of Iran was established. Pasteur Institute of Iran was the tenth Pasteur Institute formed worldwide. \nMoreover, Pasteur Institute of Iran formally started its activity on 23 August 1921. Following Emil Roux's suggestion, Joseph Mesnard was nominated as the first general director of Pasteur Institute of Iran and he served in this position for five years.\nThe second French general director of Pasteur Institute of Iran was Joseph Kerandel, who arrived in Tehran in 1926 and stayed in Iran until the end of his life in 1934. He is buried in the Catholic graveyard in Tehran. This dedicated person devoted his life to the development of Pasteur Institute of Iran, complementing the contribution of his Iranian colleagues Dr Abolghasem Bahrami, Dr. Mehdi Ghodsi, Dr. Hassan Mirdamadi, Dr. Hussein Mashuf, Dr. Ahmad Najm Abadi, Dr. Vartani, Dr. Teymour Dolatshahi, among others; all of these activities led to the advancement of Pasteur Institute of Iran.\nAfter Dr. Kerandel’s death, Dr. Hussein Mashuf was nominated general director of Pasteur Institute of Iran. After a year, Professor Legroux was appointed scientific director of Pasteur Institute of Iran on behalf of the Pasteur Institute of Paris. He made several trips to Iran to determine the strategies and supervise the activities of Pasteur Institute of Iran; in his absence, Dr. Abolghasem Bahrami was in charge. \nDue to World War II, the relationship between the Pasteur Institutes in Iran and Paris was interrupted (from 1939 to 1945); however, the institute continued its activities under the direct supervision of Dr. Bahrami and his deputy, Dr. Ghodsi. Before the war, when the number of laboratories was limited and their activities failed to meet the needs of the country, most of the national health issues related to the ministry of health were addressed by Pasteur Institute of Iran; one of its activities was evaluating the quarantining effectiveness in the country and Pasteur Institute of Iran successfully undertook this important responsibility with the contribution of the authorities at the time (Dr. Ehyaolmolk, Dr. Ehyaolsaltane, Dr. Amiraalam, and Dr. Loghmanolmolk).\nAfter World War II, in order to further develop Pasteur Institute of Iran and establish new departments, Dr. Manuchehr Eghbal, the Minister of Health, invited a group of members of the Pasteur Institute of Paris to come to Iran to revise the structures and suggest new strategies. This team, including Dr. Pasteur Valery Radot, the head of the council of the Pasteur Institute of Paris, and other officials visited Iran in 1946; they also participated in the 25th anniversary of the inauguration of Pasteur Institute of Iran.\nOn the 25 August 1946, the complementary agreement of technical and scientific memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the Pasteur Institutes of Iran and Paris was signed. According to this memorandum, Pasteur Institute of Iran was to be formally and financially independent and under the supervision of the minister of health; one of the French experts, Dr. Marcel Baltazard, working in the Pasteur Institute of Morocco, was nominated to be the general director of Pasteur Institute of Iran. According to the new schedule, Pasteur Institute of Iran started a new approach and focusing its activities in the fields of medicine, epidemiology and research; to this end, one important issue was plague studies.\n\nIranian physicians were familiar with the human plague for a long time. Although there is little information about the situation of plague from earlier centuries, we have more documented evidence from the 19th and 20th centuries. During the Qajar dynasty (1895 to 1925), cholera and plague were the most frequently documented outbreaks. Such lethal diseases were not hard to imagine considering the poor hygiene and lack of knowledge about the root of transmission, prevention and effective treatment of that time. Several plague outbreaks took place during the Qajar dynasty in Iran. In 1871, a severe form of plague outbreak happened in Saghez and Bane (two cities in Kurdistan province) and the Iranian and non-Iranian physicians, such as Dr. Johan Louis Schlimmer, the instructor in the Darolfonun School, were appointed to control this disease. Dr. Schlimmer noted his observations in his book, \"Schlimmer's Terminology\", published in 1874. The first Iranian physician who registered his observations about plague using modern medical science was Mohammad Razi Tabatabai, the senior physician in Naser al-Din Shah's army; his book was published under the title \"Plague\" in 1875. Dr. Joseph Desire Tholozan, (1820 to 1897), the royal physician of Naser Al-din Shah and the head of the ministry of health at that time, evaluated the main and natural foci of plague in Kurdistan between 1870 and 1882 and found certain foci for the disease in various villages of that area.\n\nIn 1946, together with the new program of activities of Pasteur Institute of Iran, the epidemiology department of Pasteur Institute of Iran started its activities under the supervision of Dr. Baltazard, the general director of the institute. They started their mission in Northwest of Iran and attempted to prepare an epidemiological map of infectious diseases of the country using a portable laboratory in a truck. It later became more practical after they were equipped with professional cars. Although Kurdistan had a history of plague, it was due to the plague outbreak in Kurdistan in the same year that for the first time the research teams were dispatched to an area in which they could control the outbreak via quarantining the foci and epidemiological procedures on the humans and rodents. Studies of the plague foci in this region and the importance of this disease motivated Dr. Baltazard, Dr. Shamsa, Dr. Karimi, Dr. Habibi, Dr. Bahmanyar, Dr. Agha Eftekhari, Dr. Farhang Azad, Dr. Seyyedian and Dr. Majd Teymouri to conduct extensive scientific and epidemiologic studies after educating expert technicians and providing sufficient facilities.\n\nDuring the nine plague outbreaks in Kurdistan and Azerbaijan between 1946 and 1965, many infected people survived from the disease by the efforts of the dispatched teams of Pasteur Institute of Iran; however, 156 died. In 1952, the first plague laboratory was founded in Akanlu village, near the epicenter of plague in Kurdistan, Iran, on a piece of land bestowed by Manuchehr Gharagozlou, an Iranian friend of Dr. Baltazard. At this research center, currently called \"The Research Center for Emerging and Reemerging infectious diseases\", Dr. Baltazard and his perseverant colleagues conducted extensive research on plague and established this center as one of the international references for plague. Since 1952, research teams could base themselves in the area for months at a time and conduct detailed research on rodents under more favorable conditions. They were no longer required to carry their equipment throughout their missions. During those years, the integration of field and laboratory collaborations was a key to effective epidemiological actions and led to great research hypotheses. The extensive research by the teams of Pasteur Institute of Iran showed that rodents of the two types Meriones Persicus and Meriones libycus were the main natural reservoirs, unlike their resistance to plague; accordingly, they first proposed that the main reservoir of a disease should be sought amongst the most resistant, not the most sensitive, and such a theory is now accepted as a scientific fact. They also presented their scientific qualifications by publishing several scientific articles. During the development of this research center, many international scientists visited the center, lecturing, studying and/or researching in their fields. In particular, Dr. Xavier Misonne, a Belgian rodentologist who investigated rodent life in Iran and Dr. Jean Marie Klein, an entomologist, who conducted extensive research on fleas in the Akanlu center, played important roles. In addition, the aerial photographs of Kurdistan and Hamadan were obtained from Iran's army and rodents' locations and the infection were mapped and reported and the first foundations of GIS were set. The research team carefully concentrated on the epizootic trend of the region.\nMoreover, it should be noted that the achievements of Pasteur Institute of Iran regarding plague research attracted global attention and such a success motivated them to assign Iranians international plague research. The experts and researchers of Pasteur Institute of Iran, known as WHO experts, continued to conduct related research in many neighboring countries such as Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Yemen, Southeast Asia (India, Indonesia, Thailand), Burma, Brazil, and Africa (Zaire, Tanzania); they published all of their research results to be used by others. Most of this research was financially supported by WHO. \nIn 1972, a WHO meeting on plague was held in this center with many participants from all over the world. Although Dr. Baltazard left Iran in 1962, plague studies continued to be conducted in the following years in such a way that in 1978 a new focus of the disease was reported in the Sarab region in Eastern Azerbaijan by Dr. Yunos Karimi and his colleagues. It is noteworthy that one of the main responsibilities assigned to Pasteur Institute of Iran and the Akanlu Research Center in the following years was to conduct research about diagnosis and epidemiology of plague.\nBetween 1978 and 2000, missions to monitor the plague in Kurdistan and Hamadan; proved plague infection amongst fleas and rodents in the evaluated regions.Unfortunately, plague research was not seriously continued after 1992 and totally discontinued after 2000, resulting in that Akanlu Research Center, the only research center of Pasteur Institute of Iran on plague, was almost forgotten.\n\nPasteur Institute of Iran has been designated to manage the infectious disease situation in Iran and when taking into account all its completed projects, the Research Center for Emerging and Reemerging infectious diseases can be regarded as the pioneer center for field epidemiology in Iran. The Epidemiology Department of Pasteur Institute of Iran and the Akanlu Research Center did researches on tularemia, recurrent fever, rabies and animal bites in addition to plague studies, the main research field of this center. In addition to close collaborations with other departments of the institute such as parasitology and rabies, the epidemiology department and Akanlu Research Center has conducted research in other fields such as hemorrhagic fevers, malaria, cholera and smallpox. The experts working in this Research Center, as WHO expert, were sent around the world to control outbreaks in addition to performing their important role in controlling a smallpox outbreak in this country.\n\nFor instance, Dr. Mansur Shamsa was sent to Pakistan to complete a mission on behalf of WHO and Pasteur Institute of Iran; he played an important role in the control of the outbreak in Pakistan.\n\nOne of the other research fields of the Research Center for Emerging and Reemerging infectious diseases has been running researches on tularemia in Iran. Great research by Dr. Shamsa and his colleagues led to the first report of this disease among the domestic livestock and wildlife in Northwest and Eastern Iran. In this study, more than 4500 wild mammals, 200 sheep and cows were traced for the causative agent of tularemia in 47 locations in Iran. As a result, this study greatly contributed to the identification of wild mammals acting as reservoirs for many zoonotic diseases around the country.\n\nThe studies about the epidemiology of tularemia continued in the years thereafter as well. The first report of a human case of tularemia was in 1980 in Marivan, southwestern Kurdistan province.\n\nA new period of research activities focused on the center began in 2010. The results of researches in this period were further reports of plague, tularemia and Q fever in Iran. After decades of lack of reporting about these diseases, the surveillance system of these diseases formed again.\nThe domain of center’s current activities is defined in three fields: research, education and services.\nThe dedicated laboratories for rodentology studies, serology, molecular studies and culture, seminar halls and guest accommodation (for up to 40 persons) offer a suitable environment for research and education in this region. The center holds the national reference laboratory for plague, tularemia and Q fever, aims to be the WHO collaborating centre in near future and has conducted several studies on emerging and reemerging infectious diseases so far.\n\nResults of carried out research projects managed by this center includes reports on plague in rodents and dogs in the western part of the country, reports on tularemia seropositivity in human high-risk groups in Kurdistan and Sistan and Baluchestan provinces and the first report of endocarditis case of Q fever in Tehran. In addition, this research center has a close scientific relationship with the national reference laboratory of Arboviruses and viral haemorrhagic fever in Pasteur Institute of Iran to monitor other emerging and reemerging infectious diseases such as Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever, dengue fever, West Nile fever, Rift Valley fever, etc. To monitor other emerging and reemerging infectious diseases, studies have been done on diseases such as recurrent fever, HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis.\n\nPublished articles from the center’s experts in the field emerging and reemerging infectious diseases are published in more than 120 papers in international journals.\n\nThe center’s scientific cooperation is in the form of national and international cooperation:\n\nCurrently the center has an agreement of collaboration with the Center of Communicable Diseases Control, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Rodentology Group of Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Iranian Association of Microbiology and close collaboration with the Tehran University of Medical Sciences and Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences.\n\nScientific development and growth of a new phase of scientific activities were beholden to close collaboration with Pasteur Institute of Paris and Pasteur Institute in Madagascar. These two institutes are World Health Organization collaborating centers for plague. The centre has also close collaboration with, National Museum of Natural History, France; Grenoble Alpes University, France; Institute of Pathology and biology in France; Veterinary Medical Research Institute, Hungary; University of Oslo, Norway; Umeå University, Sweden and Kocaeli University, Turkey.\n\nThe center’s educational activities are in the form of workshops, implementation of educational courses and internships and apprenticeship courses, guidance and advice for students’ theses and holding journal clubs.\nFrom 2011 to 2014 a total of 300 persons from 45 Universities and 120 students from the Universities of Mashhad, Tehran, Hamadan and Pasteur Institute of Iran completed the necessary educational programs in the form of workshops or apprenticeship programs.\n\nA standard program is developed for students to successfully complete different apprenticeship courses in related fields at this center.\n\nThe following services are performed by the center:\n\n\nFollowing the center for communicable diseases control’s request, more than 15 missions around the country has been made to control and investigate different outbreaks during the last 3 years.\n\nIn December 2014 this center got the certificate to be the National Reference Laboratory for diagnosis of Plague, Tularemia and Q fever. The scope of this laboratory is as follows:\n\n\nIn the repair and rebuilding of the center, a museum was established to house the center’s documents \nand historical devices.\n\nThe Research Center employs 4 faculty members, 13 experts and a caretaker either permanently or temporarily.\n\n"}
{"id": "13498040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13498040", "title": "Riddoch syndrome", "text": "Riddoch syndrome\n\nRiddoch syndrome (also known as the \"Riddoch phenomenon\") is a form of visual impairment often caused by lesions in the occipital lobe which limit the sufferer's ability to distinguish objects. Only moving objects in a blind field are visible, static ones being invisible to the patient. The moving objects are not perceived to have color or detail. The subject may only have awareness of the movement without visual perception of it (gnosanopsia), or the general shape of a moving object may be perceivable as a shadow like outline.\n\nAt least one patient was able to use a rocking chair—putting non-moving surroundings in relative motion to her head—to improve her motion perception. She eventually was able to do the same with just voluntary movement of her head.\n\n"}
{"id": "46636963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46636963", "title": "Risk Assessment under the Sanitary and Phytosanitary Agreement", "text": "Risk Assessment under the Sanitary and Phytosanitary Agreement\n\nThe Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (the \"SPS Agreement\") governs rules for food safety and animal and plant health standards. The SPS Agreement permits countries to implement measures provided that they are based on science, are applied only to the extent necessary to protect human, animal and plant life or health and do not arbitrarily or unjustifiably discriminate between countries where identical or similar conditions prevail.\n\nA critical feature of the SPS Agreement is that Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures (“SPS measures”) must be based on a ‘risk assessment’. Article 2.2 of the SPS Agreement requires SPS measures to be maintained with sufficient scientific evidence. Furthermore, SPS measures must be based on appropriate assessments of the risks to human, animal or plant life or health. The risk assessment must, but is not limited to, consider: scientific evidence, relevant processes and production methods, relevant inspection, sampling and testing methods, prevalence of specific diseases or pests, existence of pest or disease free areas, relevant ecological and environmental conditions, and quarantine or other treatment. Exceptionally, Members may adopt provisional measures (not based on a risk assessment) when the relevant scientific evidence is insufficient.\n\nRisk assessment is defined in para4 of Annex A to the SPS agreement: The evaluation of the likelihood of entry, establishment or spread of a pest or disease within the territory of an importing Member according to the sanitary or phytosanitary measures which might be applied, and of the associated potential biological and economic consequences; or the evaluation of the potential for adverse effects on human or animal health arising from the presence of additives, contaminants, toxins or disease-causing organisms in food, beverages or feedstuffs.\n\nRisk assessment represents a quantitative or qualitative estimate of the possible ‘harmful effect of the intake of or exposure to a substance or activity, determined in accordance with scientifically accepted methodology.’ The risk to be assessed under article 5.1 must be a specific risk that has “the actual potential for adverse effects on human health in the real world where people live and work and die.” This can be contrasted with ‘risk management’, which takes into account the result of the risk assessment in addition to the social values and politics. Risk management seeks to establish the level of risk a particular society is willing to take in relation to the potential harm and the corresponding SPS measure.\n"}
{"id": "22589405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589405", "title": "Scaption", "text": "Scaption\n\nScaption is an abbreviation for scapular plane elevation. The term does not denote whether the elevation is with an internal, external or neutral rotation. The term is widely used in sports training, occupational therapy, and physical therapy.\n\nThe term was first made public in a 1991 publication of the \"American Journal of Sports Medicine\". The origins for the word are rather practical: Marilyn Pink was asked to give a lecture at the Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons on a research project she was conducting. Due to a strict clocking of presentation time, she was forced to shorten a phrase that appeared often in her lecture: \"scapular plane elevation\". Her colleague and friend, Jacquelin Perry, suggested she simply convert the phrase to \"scaption\", thus coining the word.\n"}
{"id": "6283806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6283806", "title": "Shockoe Slip", "text": "Shockoe Slip\n\nShockoe Slip is a district in the downtown area of Richmond, Virginia. The name \"slip\" referred to a narrow passageway leading from Main Street to where goods were loaded and unloaded from the former James River and Kanawha Canal. The rough boundaries of Shockoe Slip include 14th Street, Main Street, Canal Street and 12th Street.\n\nArchitecturally, many of the buildings in Shockoe Slip were constructed during the rebuilding following the Evacuation Fire of 1865, especially in a commercial variant of the Italianate style. It is centered on a 1909 fountain, dedicated to \"one who loved animals.\" The buildings in the district, which historically housed a variety of offices, wholesale and retail establishments, are now primarily restaurants, shops, offices, and apartments.\n\nShockoe Slip began developing in the late 18th century following the move of the state capital to Richmond, aided by the construction of Mayo's bridge across the James River (ultimately succeeded by the modern 14th Street Bridge), as well as the siting of key tobacco industry structures, such as the public warehouse, tobacco scales, and the Federal Customs House in or near the district.\n\nOn the eve of the fall of Richmond to the Union Army in April 1865, evacuating Confederate forces were ordered to set fire to the city's tobacco warehouses. The fires spread, and completely destroyed Shockoe Slip and several other districts. The district was quickly rebuilt in the late 1860s, flourishing further in the 1870s, and forming much of its present historic building stock.\n\nThe district began declining in the 1920s, as other areas of the city rose in prominence with the advent of the automobile. Numerous structures would be demolished and cleared, including (in the 1950s), the Tobacco Exchange, which had been at the heart of the district.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s and accelerating in the 1970s, Shockoe Slip was redeveloped as a commercial and entertainment district; the nightlife district came just after Richmond passed liquor-by-the-drink laws, and when the so-called fern bar became popular across the United States. The restoration came at the time of an increased interest in historic preservation around the time of the Bicentennial, with the district being added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972. Early pioneer restaurants included The Tobacco Company, Stuffy's Going Bananas, Commercial Cafe and Sam Miller's, the last two being revived restaurant names from Richmond's 19th century.\n\nOne of the earliest and oldest of Richmond's artist-run galleries, was Artspace 1306 located at 1306 East Cary Street in Shockoe Slip. Artspace 1306 retained its original name when the gallery moved to North 18th Street in Shockoe Bottom. Only when Artspace 1306 moved to 6 East Broad Street did the gallery drop the original address from its name. The Broad Street location became the home of another 501 C-3 gallery, Art6 Gallery, when Artspace moved to Plant Zero in the Manchester area of the city.\n\nShockoe Slip also included some of the earliest rehabilitated downtown apartments; at the time of the restoration asphalt paving was removed to expose historic Belgian block streets.\n\nShockoe Slip continues to be a popular place to live and work. The Martin Agency has maintained its headquarters in Shockoe Slip since 1997. In 2015 digital marketing agency Workshop Digital relocated to the Turning Basin Building in Shockoe Slip, and in 2016 CarMax relocated 125 designers, developers, and programmers to the adjacent Lady Byrd Hat building. Residential development surrounding the James River continues with the influx of students and professionals and an increased interest in urban living.\n\nShockoe Slip was the site of the passage of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. To commemorate this event the First Freedom Center opened there in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "795288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795288", "title": "Society of Rural Physicians of Canada", "text": "Society of Rural Physicians of Canada\n\nThe Society of Rural Physicians of Canada (commonly referred to by its acronym SRPC) was founded in 1992 by a group of physicians in Mount Forest, Ontario. The SRPC National Head office is located in Shawville, Quebec\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21968705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21968705", "title": "Stéphane Brosse", "text": "Stéphane Brosse\n\nStéphane Brosse (20 October 197117 June 2012) was a French ski mountaineer.\n\nBrosse was born in Le Pont-de-Beauvoisin, Savoie. He started ski mountaineering in 1990 and competed the first time at the Miage Contamines Somfy race in 1995. In 1996 he became a member of the national team. Together with Pierre Gignoux he set the record and continued to hold it for the Mont Blanc course from 30 May 2003. The duo needed a total time of 5h 15' 47\" for the total course, thereof about 4 hours and seven minutes for climbing up, and about one hour and seven minutes for the downhill race. Since 2003 he and Lionel Bonnel had also held the Chamonix-Zermatt Haute Route record with 21h 11'.\n\nStéphane Brosse died on 17 June 2012 while crossing the Aiguille d'Argentière in the Mont Blanc massif when a snow cornice collapsed under him, resulting in him falling between 600 and 700 metres. He was accompanied by Kílian Jornet Burgada, Sébastien Montaz-Rosset and Bastien Fleury. Brosse lived in Annecy. He was 40.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "272134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272134", "title": "Survey methodology", "text": "Survey methodology\n\nA field of applied statistics of human research surveys, survey methodology studies the sampling of individual units from a population and associated techniques of survey data collection, such as questionnaire construction and methods for improving the number and accuracy of responses to surveys. Survey methodology includes instruments or procedures that ask one or more questions that may or may not be answered.\n\nResearchers carry out statistical surveys with a view towards making statistical inferences about the population being studied, and such inferences depend strongly on the survey questions used. Polls about public opinion, public-health surveys, market-research surveys, government surveys and censuses are all examples of quantitative research that use survey methodology to answer questions about a population. Although censuses do not include a \"sample\", they do include other aspects of survey methodology, like questionnaires, interviewers, and non-response follow-up techniques. Surveys provide important information for all kinds of public-information and research fields, e.g., marketing research, psychology, health-care provision and sociology.\n\nA single survey is made of at least a sample (or full population in the case of a census), a method of data collection (e.g., a questionnaire) and individual questions or items that become data that can be analyzed statistically. A single survey may focus on different types of topics such as preferences (e.g., for a presidential candidate), opinions (e.g., should abortion be legal?), behavior (smoking and alcohol use), or factual information (e.g., income), depending on its purpose. Since survey research is almost always based on a sample of the population, the success of the research is dependent on the representativeness of the sample with respect to a target population of interest to the researcher. That target population can range from the general population of a given country to specific groups of people within that country, to a membership list of a professional organization, or list of students enrolled in a school system (see also sampling (statistics) and survey sampling). The persons replying to a survey are called respondents, and depending on the questions asked their answers may represent themselves as individuals, their households, employers, or other organization they represent.\n\nSurvey methodology as a scientific field seeks to identify principles about the sample design, data collection instruments, statistical adjustment of data, and data processing, and final data analysis that can create systematic and random survey errors. Survey errors are sometimes analyzed in connection with survey cost. Cost constraints are sometimes framed as improving quality within cost constraints, or alternatively, reducing costs for a fixed level of quality. Survey methodology is both a scientific field and a profession, meaning that some professionals in the field focus on survey errors empirically and others design surveys to reduce them. For survey designers, the task involves making a large set of decisions about thousands of individual features of a survey in order to improve it.\n\nThe most important methodological challenges of a survey methodologist include making decisions on how to:\n\nThe sample is chosen from the sampling frame, which consists of a list of all members of the population of interest. The goal of a survey is not to describe the sample, but the larger population. This generalizing ability is dependent on the representativeness of the sample, as stated above. Each member of the population is termed an element. There are frequent difficulties one encounters while choosing a representative sample. One common error that results is selection bias. Selection bias results when the procedures used to select a sample result in over representation or under representation of some significant aspect of the population. For instance, if the population of interest consists of 75% females, and 25% males, and the sample consists of 40% females and 60% males, females are under represented while males are overrepresented. In order to minimize selection biases, stratified random sampling is often used. This is when the population is divided into sub-populations called strata, and random samples are drawn from each of the strata, or elements are drawn for the sample on a proportional basis.\n\nThere are several ways of administering a survey. The choice between administration modes is influenced by several factors, including\nDifferent methods create mode effects that change how respondents answer, and different methods have different advantages. The most common modes of administration can be summarized as:\n\n\nThere are several different designs, or overall structures, that can be used in survey research. The three general types are cross-sectional, successive independent samples, and longitudinal studies.\n\nIn cross-sectional studies, a sample (or samples) is drawn from the relevant population and studied once. A cross-sectional study describes characteristics of that population at one time, but cannot give any insight as to the causes of population characteristics because it is a predictive, correlational design.\n\nA successive independent samples design draws multiple random samples from a population at one or more times. This design can study changes within a population, but not changes within individuals because the same individuals are not surveyed more than once. Such studies cannot, therefore, identify the causes of change over time necessarily. For successive independent samples designs to be effective, the samples must be drawn from the same population, and must be equally representative of it. If the samples are not comparable, the changes between samples may be due to demographic characteristics rather than time. In addition, the questions must be asked in the same way so that responses can be compared directly.\n\nLongitudinal studies take measure of the same random sample at multiple time points. Unlike with a successive independent samples design, this design measures the differences in individual participants’ responses over time. This means that a researcher can potentially assess the reasons for response changes by assessing the differences in respondents’ experiences. Longitudinal studies are the easiest way to assess the effect of a naturally occurring event, such as divorce that cannot be tested experimentally. However, longitudinal studies are both expensive and difficult to do. It’s harder to find a sample that will commit to a months- or years-long study than a 15-minute interview, and participants frequently leave the study before the final assessment. This attrition of participants is not random, so samples can become less representative with successive assessments. To account for this, a researcher can compare the respondents who left the survey to those that did not, to see if they are statistically different populations. Respondents may also try to be self-consistent in spite of changes to survey answers.\n\nQuestionnaires are the most commonly used tool in survey research. However, the results of a particular survey are worthless if the questionnaire is written inadequately. Questionnaires should produce valid and reliable demographic variable measures and should yield valid and reliable individual disparities that self-report scales generate.\n\nA variable category that is often measured in survey research are demographic variables, which are used to depict the characteristics of the people surveyed in the sample. Demographic variables include such measures as ethnicity, socioeconomic status, race, and age. Surveys often assess the preferences and attitudes of individuals, and many employ self-report scales to measure people’s opinions and judgements about different items presented on a scale. Self-report scales are also used to examine the disparities among people on scale items. These self-report scales, which are usually presented in questionnaire form, are one of the most used instruments in psychology, and thus it is important that the measures be constructed carefully, while also being reliable and valid.\n\nReliable measures of self-report are defined by their consistency. Thus, a reliable self-report measure produces consistent results every time it is executed. A test’s reliability can be measured a few ways. First, one can calculate a test-retest reliability. A test-retest reliability entails conducting the same questionnaire to a large sample at two different times. For the questionnaire to be considered reliable, people in the sample do not have to score identically on each test, but rather their position in the score distribution should be similar for both the test and the retest. Self-report measures will generally be more reliable when they have many items measuring a construct. Furthermore, measurements will be more reliable when the factor being measured has greater variability among the individuals in the sample that are being tested. Finally, there will be greater reliability when instructions for the completion of the questionnaire are clear and when there are limited distractions in the testing environment. Contrastingly, a questionnaire is valid if what it measures is what it had originally planned to measure. Construct validity of a measure is the degree to which it measures the theoretical construct that it was originally supposed to measure.\n\nIt is important to note that there is evidence to suggest that self-report measures tend to be less accurate and reliable than alternative methods of assessing data (e.g. observational studies; for an example, see.\n\nSix steps can be employed to construct a questionnaire that will produce reliable and valid results. First, one must decide what kind of information should be collected. Second, one must decide how to conduct the questionnaire. Thirdly, one must construct a first draft of the questionnaire. Fourth, the questionnaire should be revised. Next, the questionnaire should be pretested. Finally, the questionnaire should be edited and the procedures for its use should be specified.\n\nThe way that a question is phrased can have a large impact on how a research participant will answer the question. Thus, survey researchers must be conscious of their wording when writing survey questions. It is important for researchers to keep in mind that different individuals, cultures, and subcultures can interpret certain words and phrases differently from one another. There are two different types of questions that survey researchers use when writing a questionnaire: free response questions and closed questions. Free response questions are open-ended, whereas closed questions are usually multiple choice. Free response questions are beneficial because they allow the responder greater flexibility, but they are also very difficult to record and score, requiring extensive coding. Contrastingly, closed questions can be scored and coded more easily, but they diminish expressivity and spontaneity of the responder. In general, the vocabulary of the questions should be very simple and direct, and most should be less than twenty words. Each question should be edited for \"readability\" and should avoid leading or loaded questions. Finally, if multiple items are being used to measure one construct, the wording of some of the items should be worded in the opposite direction to evade response bias.\n\nA respondent's answer to an open-ended question can be coded into a response scale afterwards, or analysed using more qualitative methods.survey guide to station point to any two station\n\nSurvey researchers should carefully construct the order of questions in a questionnaire. For questionnaires that are self-administered, the most interesting questions should be at the beginning of the questionnaire to catch the respondent’s attention, while demographic questions should be near the end. Contrastingly, if a survey is being administered over the telephone or in person, demographic questions should be administered at the beginning of the interview to boost the respondent’s confidence. Another reason to be mindful of question order may cause a survey response effect in which one question may affect how people respond to subsequent questions as a result of priming.\n\nThe following ways have been recommended for reducing nonresponse in telephone and face-to-face surveys:\n\nBrevity is also often cited as increasing response rate. A 1996 literature review found mixed evidence to support this claim for both written and verbal surveys, concluding that other factors may often be more important.\nA 2010 study looking at 100,000 online surveys found response rate dropped by about 3% at 10 questions and about 6% at 20 questions, with drop-off slowing (for example, only 10% reduction at 40 questions).\nOther studies showed that quality of response degraded toward the end of long surveys.\n\nSurvey methodologists have devoted much effort to determining the extent to which interviewee responses are affected by physical characteristics of the interviewer. Main interviewer traits that have been demonstrated to influence survey responses are race, gender,\nand relative body weight (BMI).\nThese interviewer effects are particularly operant when questions are related to the interviewer trait. Hence, race of interviewer has been shown to affect responses to measures regarding racial attitudes,\ninterviewer sex responses to questions involving gender issues,\nand interviewer BMI answers to eating and dieting-related questions.\nWhile interviewer effects have been investigated mainly for face-to-face surveys, they have also been shown to exist for interview modes with no visual contact, such as telephone surveys and in video-enhanced web surveys. The explanation typically provided for interviewer effects is social desirability bias: survey participants may attempt to project a positive self-image in an effort to conform to the norms they attribute to the interviewer asking questions. Interviewer effects are one example survey response effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2602522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2602522", "title": "Ta-Bitjet", "text": "Ta-Bitjet\n\nTa-Bitjet is an ancient goddess of Egyptian mythology. She is identified as the consort of Haroeris. Ta-Bitjet is a scorpion goddess and the blood that flowed from when Horus/Haroeris ruptured her hymen can serve as a panacea for all poisons. She could be associated with another bride of one of the Horuses, Serket.\n"}
{"id": "53744625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53744625", "title": "Touhidul Anowar Chawdhury", "text": "Touhidul Anowar Chawdhury\n\nTouhidul Anowar Chawdhury is a Bangladeshi physician who was awarded Independence Day Award in medical science in 2017. He was the president of Bangladesh College of Physicians and Surgeons for two years from 1991-1993 session.\n"}
{"id": "50429217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50429217", "title": "US Breastfeeding Report Card 2014", "text": "US Breastfeeding Report Card 2014\n\nFor International Breastfeeding Rates by Country \"A Comparison of Breastfeeding Rates by Country\"States Ordered by Initial Rank (Ever Breastfed)\n"}
{"id": "179400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179400", "title": "Urinary incontinence", "text": "Urinary incontinence\n\nUrinary incontinence (UI), also known as involuntary urination, is any uncontrolled leakage of urine. It is a common and distressing problem, which may have a large impact on quality of life. It has been identified as an important issue in geriatric health care. The term enuresis is often used to refer to urinary incontinence primarily in children, such as nocturnal enuresis (bed wetting).\nPelvic surgery, pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause are major risk factors. Urinary incontinence is often a result of an underlying medical condition but is under-reported to medical practitioners. There are four main types of incontinence:\nTreatments include surgery, pelvic floor muscle training, bladder training, and electrical stimulation. The benefit of medications is small and long term safety is unclear. It is more common in older women.\nUrinary incontinence results from both urologic and non-urologic causes. Urologic causes can be classified as either bladder or urethral dysfunction and may include detrusor overactivity, poor bladder compliance, urethral hypermobility or intrinsic sphincter deficiency. Non-urologic causes may include infection, medication or drugs, psychological factors, polyuria, stool impaction, and restricted mobility.\n\nThe most common types of urinary incontinence in women are stress urinary incontinence and urge urinary incontinence. Women with both problems have mixed urinary incontinence. After menopause, estrogen production decreases and in some women urethral tissue will demonstrate atrophy with the tissue of the urethra becoming weaker and thinner. Stress urinary incontinence is caused by loss of support of the urethra which is usually a consequence of damage to pelvic support structures as a result of childbirth. It is characterized by leaking of small amounts of urine with activities which increase abdominal pressure such as coughing, sneezing and lifting. Additionally, frequent exercise in high-impact activities can cause athletic incontinence to develop. Urge urinary incontinence is caused by uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle . It is characterized by leaking of large amounts of urine in association with insufficient warning to get to the bathroom in time.\n\nContinence and micturition involve a balance between urethral closure and detrusor muscle activity. Urethral pressure normally exceeds bladder pressure, resulting in urine remaining in the bladder. The proximal urethra and bladder are both within the pelvis. Intra abdominal pressure increases (from coughing and sneezing) are transmitted to both urethra and bladder equally, leaving the pressure differential unchanged, resulting in continence. Normal voiding is the result of changes in both of these pressure factors: urethral pressure falls and bladder pressure rises.\n\nThe body stores urine — water and wastes removed by the kidneys — in the urinary bladder, a balloon-like organ. The bladder connects to the urethra, the tube through which urine leaves the body.\n\nDuring urination, detrusor muscles in the wall of the bladder contract, forcing urine out of the bladder and into the urethra. At the same time, sphincter muscles surrounding the urethra relax, letting urine pass out of the body. Incontinence will occur if the bladder muscles suddenly contract (detrusor muscle) or muscles surrounding the urethra suddenly relax (sphincter muscles).\n\nUrination, or voiding, is a complex activity. The bladder is a balloonlike muscle that lies in the lowest part of the abdomen. The bladder stores urine, then releases it through the urethra, the canal that carries urine to the outside of the body. Controlling this activity involves nerves, muscles, the spinal cord and the brain.\n\nThe bladder is made of two types of muscles: the detrusor, a muscular sac that stores urine and squeezes to empty, and the sphincter, a circular group of muscles at the bottom or neck of the bladder that automatically stay contracted to hold the urine in and automatically relax when the detrusor contracts to let the urine into the urethra. A third group of muscles below the bladder (pelvic floor muscles) can contract to keep urine back.\n\nA baby's bladder fills to a set point, then automatically contracts and empties. As the child gets older, the nervous system develops. The child's brain begins to get messages from the filling bladder and begins to send messages to the bladder to keep it from automatically emptying until the child decides it is the time and place to void.\n\nFailures in this control mechanism result in incontinence. Reasons for this failure range from the simple to the complex.\n\nA careful history taking is essential especially in the pattern of voiding and urine leakage as it suggests the type of incontinence faced. Other important points include straining and discomfort, use of drugs, recent surgery, and illness.\n\nThe physical examination will focus on looking for signs of medical conditions causing incontinence, such as tumors that block the urinary tract, stool impaction, and poor reflexes or sensations, which may be evidence of a nerve-related cause.\n\nA test often performed is the measurement of bladder capacity and residual urine for evidence of poorly functioning bladder muscles.\n\nOther tests include:\n\nPatients are often asked to keep a diary for a day or more, up to a week, to record the pattern of voiding, noting times and the amounts of urine produced.\n\nResearch projects that assess the efficacy of anti-incontinence therapies often quantify the extent of urinary incontinence. The methods include the 1-h pad test, measuring leakage volume; using a voiding diary, counting the number of incontinence episodes (leakage episodes) per day; and assessing of the strength of pelvic floor muscles, measuring the maximum vaginal squeeze pressure.\n\n\nYearly screening is recommended for women by the Women's Preventive Services Initiative\n\nTreatment options range from conservative treatment, behavior management, bladder retraining, pelvic floor therapy, collecting devices (for men), fixer-occluder devices for incontinence (in men), medications and surgery. The success of treatment depends on the correct diagnoses. Weight loss is recommended in those who are obese.\n\nBehavioral therapy involves the use of both suppressive techniques (distraction, relaxation) and learning to avoid foods that may worsen urinary incontinence. This may involve avoiding or limiting consumption of caffeine and alcohol. Behavioral therapy is not curative for urinary incontinence, but it can improve a person's quality of life. Behavioral therapy has benefits as both a monotherapy and as an adjunct to medications for symptom reduction.\n\nExercising the muscles of the pelvis such as with Kegel exercises are a first line treatment for women with stress incontinence. Efforts to increase the time between urination, known as bladder training, is recommended in those with urge incontinence. Both these may be used in those with mixed incontinence.\n\nSmall vaginal cones of increasing weight may be used to help with exercise. They seem to be better than no active treatment in women with stress urinary incontinence, and have similar effects to training of pelvic floor muscles or electrostimulation.\n\nBiofeedback uses measuring devices to help the patient become aware of his or her body's functioning. By using electronic devices or diaries to track when the bladder and urethral muscles contract, the patient can gain control over these muscles. Biofeedback can be used with pelvic muscle exercises and electrical stimulation to relieve stress and urge incontinence.\n\nTime voiding while urinating and bladder training are techniques that use biofeedback. In time voiding, the patient fills in a chart of voiding and leaking. From the patterns that appear in the chart, the patient can plan to empty his or her bladder before he or she would otherwise leak. Biofeedback and muscle conditioning, known as bladder training, can alter the bladder's schedule for storing and emptying urine. These techniques are effective for urge and overflow incontinence\n\nA 2013 randomized controlled trial found no benefit of adding biofeedback to pelvic floor muscle exercise in stress urinary incontinence, but observing improvements in both groups. In another randomized controlled trial the addition of biofeedback to the training of pelvic floor muscles for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence, improved pelvic floor muscle function, reduced urinary symptoms, and improved of the quality of life.\n\nPreoperative pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) in men undergoing radical prostatectomy was not effective in reducing urinary incontinence.\n\nAlternative exercises have been studied for stress urinary incontinence in women. Evidence was insufficient to support the use of Paula method, abdominal muscle training, Pilates, Tai Chi, breathing exercises, postural training, and generalized fitness.\n\nIndividuals who continue to experience urinary incontinence need to find a management solution that matches their individual situation. The use of mechanical devices has not been well studied in women as of 2014.\n\n\nA number of medications exist to treat incontinence including: fesoterodine, tolterodine and oxybutynin. While a number appear to have a small benefit, the risk of side effects are a concern. For every ten or so people treated only one will become able to control their urine and all medication are of similar benefit.\n\nMedications are not recommended for those with stress incontinence and are only recommended in those who have urge incontinence who do not improve with bladder training.\n\nSurgery may be used to help stress or overflow incontinence. Common surgical techniques for stress incontinence include slings, tension-free vaginal tape, and bladder suspension among others. However, the use of transvaginal mesh implants and bladder slings is controversial. Due to the risk of debilitating painful side effects such as vaginal erosion, and in 2012 transvaginal mesh implants were classified as a high risk device by the US Food and Drug Administration. Urodynamic testing seems to confirm that surgical restoration of vault prolapse can cure motor urge incontinence. In those with problems following prostate surgery there is little evidence regarding the use of surgery.\n\nGlobally, up to 35% of the population over the age of 60 years is estimated to be incontinent. \nIn 2014, urinary leakage affected between 30% and 40% of people over 65 years of age living in their own homes or apartments in the U.S. Twenty-four percent of older adults in the U.S. have moderate or severe urinary incontinence that should be treated medically.\n\nBladder control problems have been found to be associated with higher incidence of many other health problems such as obesity and diabetes. Difficulty with bladder control results in higher rates of depression and limited activity levels.\n\nIncontinence is expensive both to individuals in the form of bladder control products and to the health care system and nursing home industry. Injury related to incontinence is a leading cause of admission to assisted living and nursing care facilities. More than 50% of nursing facility admissions are related to incontinence.\n\nIncontinence happens less often after age 5: About 10 percent of 5-year-olds, 5 percent of 10-year-olds, and 1 percent of 18-year-olds experience episodes of incontinence. It is twice as common in girls as in boys.\n\nBladder symptoms affect women of all ages. However, bladder problems are most prevalent among older women. Women over the age of 60 years are twice as likely as men to experience incontinence; one in three women over the age of 60 years are estimated to have bladder control problems. One reason why women are more affected is the weakening of pelvic floor muscles by pregnancy.\n\nMen tend to experience incontinence less often than women, and the structure of the male urinary tract accounts for this difference. It is common with prostate cancer treatments. Both women and men can become incontinent from neurologic injury, congenital defects, strokes, multiple sclerosis, and physical problems associated with aging.\n\nWhile urinary incontinence affects older men more often than younger men, the onset of incontinence can happen at any age. Estimates in the mid-2000s suggested that 17 percent of men over age 60, an estimated 600,000 men, experienced urinary incontinence, with this percentage increasing with age.\n\nThe management of urinary incontinence with pads is mentioned in the earliest medical book known, the Ebers Papyrus (1500 BC).\n\nIncontinence has historically been a taboo subject in Western culture. However, this situation changed some when Kimberly-Clark aggressively marketed adult diapers in the 1980s with actor June Allyson as spokeswoman. Allyson was initially reticent to participate, but her mother, who had incontinence, convinced her that it was her duty in light of her successful career. The product proved a success.\n\n"}
{"id": "584416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584416", "title": "Uterine contraction", "text": "Uterine contraction\n\nA uterine contraction is a muscle contraction of the uterine smooth muscle.\n\nThe uterus frequently contracts throughout the entire menstrual cycle, and these contractions have been termed \"endometrial waves\" or \"contractile waves\". These appear to involve only the sub-endometrial layer of the myometrium. In the early follicular phase, these contractions occur once or twice per minute and last 10–15 seconds with a low amplitude of usually 30 mmHg. The frequency increases to 3–4 per minute towards ovulation. During the luteal phase, the frequency and amplitude decrease, possibly to facilitate any implantation.\n\nIf implantation does not occur, the frequency remains low, but the amplitude increases dramatically to between 50 and 200 mmHg producing labor-like contractions at the time of menstruation. These contractions are sometimes termed \"menstrual cramps\", although that term is often used for menstrual pain in general. These contractions may be uncomfortable or even painful, but they are generally significantly less painful than contractions during labour. A hot water bottle or exercising has been found to help.\n\nA shift in the myosin expression of the uterine smooth muscle has been hypothesized to avail for changes in the directions of uterine contractions that are seen during the menstrual cycle.\n\nA contraction refers specifically to the motion of the uterus as part of the process of childbirth. Contractions, and labour in general, is one condition that releases the hormone oxytocin into the body. Contractions become longer as labour intensifies.\n\nPrior to actual labour, women may experience Braxton Hicks contractions, sometimes known as \"false labour.\"\n\nSince every pregnancy is different, a doctor, midwife or other competent professional should always be consulted before any action is taken to reduce the pain. Some popular methods may be harmful to the mother and/or the baby, or may actually worsen the pain or lengthen the labour.\n\nUterine contractions during childbirth can be monitored by cardiotocography, in which a device is fixated to the skin of the mother or directly to the fetal scalp. The pressure required to flatten a section of the uterine wall correlates with the internal pressure, thereby providing an estimate of it. \n\nA type of monitoring technology under development at Drexel University embeds conductive threads in the knitted fabric of a bellyband. When the fibers stretch in response to a contraction, the threads function like an antenna, and send the signals they pick up to an embedded RFID (radio frequency identification device) chip that reports the data.\n\nThe uterus and vagina contract during female orgasm. These contractions may not be noticed by all women; pregnant women are more likely to notice these contractions by late 2nd and 3rd trimesters.\n\n"}
{"id": "33174389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33174389", "title": "Water crisis in Honduras", "text": "Water crisis in Honduras\n\nThe water crisis in Honduras is the problem of physical and economic water scarcity in Honduras.\n\nThere is a prevalent water crisis in many developing nations. As cities and slums grow at an alarming rate, the lack of access to clean water and sanitation kills thousands, as well as reducing the quality of life of many Hondurans.\n\nAs of 2010, Honduras is a country that has a population of around 7.6 million people, of which about more than 50% live in the rural areas.\n\nThe Guacirope River Basin is in the South of Honduras. It is an area that faces extreme drought due to high temperatures and low annual rainfall. This is a deviation from coastal regions of Honduras that enjoys high annual rainfall and relatively cool temperatures.\n\nWater coverage in Honduras has is about 80% of its total population and about 70% in rural areas. The current level of water sanitation and its quantity is insufficient where close to 90% of the water supply is intermittent and unreliable. \nIn the rural areas, 44% of the water is up to health standards due to absence of water quality control and monitoring. Sanitation coverage in Honduras is improving, reaching 68% of the total population but only 50% of the rural populace\n\nIn addition, this area suffers from extensive deforestation, which reduces the soil’s water retention rate which in turn leads to poor returns on crop cultivation, health issues and poverty. The lack of infrastructure and resources to collect rainwater in the Guacirope River basin exacerbates this problem.\n\nIn 1998, Honduras was hit by Hurricane Mitch which left 75% of the country without safe drinking water, and the country has not yet recovered from the damage to the infrastructure it has caused. Currently, infrastructure and basic healthcare is lacking and repair works are still ongoing. Today, 1.2 million people in Honduras have no access to improved water sources. A military coup in 2009 has led to political and economical turmoil, further worsening the water situation in the country. Coupled with the lack of infrastructure, the health standards in Honduras are dire.\n\nA severe lack of water has led to much hardship amongst the locals, especially in the rural areas. Diarrhea and hepatitis are some of the illnesses which are rampant, especially among the young which can be fatal in some cases.\n\nIn the rural villages, women spend up to 6 man-hours to fetch clean water which could otherwise be used for educational and developmental purposes. \nLack of access to clean water contributes largely to the poverty and poor health of the Hondurans. Despite the graveness of the crisis, the government is unable to implement useful programs to ease the destitution in the country, especially those living in the rural areas.\n\nOne Drop Foundation is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that aim to fight poverty by providing access to water to those in need. Another goal of said NGO is to raise awareness about the water crisis to communicate the need for mobilization in order to ensure that all individuals have access to sufficient amount of safe water in both the present and future. To achieve these, One Drop is actively involved in fundraising through events such as LA SOIRÉE ONE DROP and making use of popular media platform like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Flickr. One Drop is currently undertaking nine projects in both developed and developing countries.\n\nOne Drop Foundation was founded by Guy Laliberté on October 29, 2007, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nOne Drop has projects in Nicaragua and Honduras.\n\nCurrently, One Drop is assessing the situation in India, Haiti and El Salvador.\n\nOne Drop utilises a trident approach – Technical, Microfinance, Social Arts and Popular Education.\n\nThe Technical approach targets to improve access to water and promote responsible use of this resource.\n\nThe Microfinancial approach entails granting loans to communities in order to launch income-generating initiatives and ensure the longevity of projects.\n\nThe Social Arts and Population Approach aims to raise awareness, educate and mobilize communities on water-related issues so as to promote the sound management of water, One Drop makes use of social arts and popular education.\n\nOne Drop is guided by its objectives to improve access to safe water in order to increase the level of health and agricultural output, establishing a high standard of food security, improving household incomes, increasing awareness with regards to water-related issues through educational shows and workshops, promoting gender equality and to embody leadership skills in youth so that they can lead the change.\n\nA comprehensive and transparent website listing out its activities makes it a reliable platform for future partners and donations from people traversing the globe. The website also has a news section that features activities and functions they engage in. It features live photos, lists out the duration of the project, tasks of representatives and how it has helped benefit the lives of the people. This gives partners and donors an intuitive feel and further enhances its credibility.\n\nGuacirope River Basin is an area stretched by extreme drought due to high temperatures and low annual precipitation. The mountain areas of Guacirope River Basin, faces extensive deforestation diminishing the soil’s capacity to retain water. This results in low agricultural yields, poor health, poverty and susceptible to the immense weather. The venue is also undernourished in resources, materials and infrastructures needed to collect rainwater.\nThe Honduras project which is currently ongoing, will directly impacts 1,000 families and will ultimately benefit over 15,000 men, women and children.\n\nTechnical and Material Contributions\n\nEnergy-efficient stoves: 1,082/1,350\n\nFamily gardens: 1,350/1,350\n\nPotable water filters: 1,350/1,350\n\nSchool gardens: 19/19\n\nRefurbished latrines: 314/400\n\nWater cisterns: 1,350/1,350\n\nFruit and forest trees : 16,023/13,000\n\nSocial Arts and Popular Education\n\nEducational and artistic workshops: 80/80\n\nMultidisciplinary touring shows: 85/85\n\nMicrofinance\n\nFollowing the military coup that took place on June 2009, ONE DROP has decided to reallocate its microfinance fund to activities that will help even more families obtain access to water.\n\n"}
{"id": "35096063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35096063", "title": "Wax rims", "text": "Wax rims\n\nWax rims are devices that are used in dentistry to help in the fabrication of removable prostheses, such as complete and partial dentures.\n\nWhen placed in the mouth, wax rims allow the dentist to record a measured vertical dimension of occlusion (VDO) because the patient will be unable to close further than the wax will allow. The wax is built up or removed until the appropriate VDO has been established. The rims are then notched in order to allow an index of the relationship of the maxillary rim to the mandibular rim with an impressionable medium, such as Alluwax or Regisal.\n"}
{"id": "39511493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39511493", "title": "Yombe maternity figures", "text": "Yombe maternity figures\n\nPhemba, also known as Yombe maternity figures, refers to sculptural objects that depict the figures of a mother and child. \nPhemba are iconic examples of Kongo art and according to Thompson (1981) \"reflect the degree to which women are treasured in Kongo culture, not just for their fecundity, but as seers and guardians of the spirit\". \nKongo societies are matrilineal. \n\nIn special cases, communities honored women by commissioning stone icons depicting a mother and child to be placed on their tombs. This was also considered dangerous, as it represented an insertion of the source of life - the mother - into the world of the dead.\n\nThe Kikongo word \"phemba\" translates to \"the white\", in reference to the white earth (Kaolinite) that is a sign of fertility in the region. The name is interpreted by John M. Janzen (1979) as denoting \"'the one who gives children in-potentia.' A phemba child is a magically conceived nkisi child, a fragile emissary of the spirit world.\" \n\nPhemba statuary falls into two groups: mothers cradling or holding their babies, and mothers nursing.\nThe very different styles of phemba sculptures illustrate regional and even personal variations on the same theme.\nOral tradition holds that the phemba cult was established by a famous midwife.\n\n"}
