{"id": "20595739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20595739", "title": "Aesthetic canon", "text": "Aesthetic canon\n\nA canon in the sphere of visual arts and aesthetics, or an aesthetic canon, is a rule for proportions, so as to produce a harmoniously formed figure.\n\nBy extension, the norms of a certain epoch as to what is or is not considered beautiful may be called a canon of beauty. These norms have varied over time and what is considered beautiful in one era may not necessarily be so in another. Canons of beauty follow the evolution of fashion and are dependent on the evolution of physical decoration techniques such as hairdressing or make up.\n\nUnder France's Ancien Régime, canons of beauty required a woman to have as white a skin as possible. This was achieved (sometimes to the danger of health) by rouge and face powders as well as 'mouches', fake moles made of black muslin glued onto the face or chest. Today, by contrast, such canons prefer a 'healthier' skin colour, sportiness, gait and so on.\n\nAccording to the anthropologist Alfred-Louis Kroeber, the female silhouette regularly revolves through one of three basic shapes—bustle, scabbard, bell.\n\nFor his painting \"The Birth of Venus\" Sandro Botticelli stated that the distance between the nipple and navel, between the two legs and between the navel and the groin must all be equal for a figure to (in his opinion) be ideally proportioned. Other such systems of 'ideal proportions' in painting and sculpture include the Polyclitean canon and Vitruvian modules, best known in the Vitruvian Man.\n\n"}
{"id": "32642147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32642147", "title": "Agarabi language", "text": "Agarabi language\n\nAgarabi, also called \"Bare\", is a Kainantu language spoken in Papua New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "20359562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20359562", "title": "Agbogho Mmuo", "text": "Agbogho Mmuo\n\nAgbogho Mmuo, or Maiden Spirits are annual performances held during the dry season in the Nri-Awka area in the northern part of the Igbos' traditional territory. Performed only by men wearing masks, the masquerades imitate the character of adolescent girls, exaggerating the girls' beauty and movements. The performance is always accompanied by musicians who sing and play tributes to both real and spirit maidens.\n\nThe performances showcase an ideal image of an Igbo maiden. This ideal is made up by the smallness of a young girl’s features and the whiteness of her complexion, which is an indication that the mask is a spirit. This whiteness is created using a chalk substance used for ritually marking the body in both West Africa and the African Diaspora. The chalky substance is also used in uli design, created and exhibited on the skin of Igbo women. Most maiden spirit mask are decorated with representations of hair combs, and other objects, modeled after late 19th-century ceremonial hairstyles. These hairstyles include elaborate coiffures and crests which intend to add beauty to the mask.\n\nThis art style is featured in the book Purple Hibiscus written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.\n"}
{"id": "6029128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6029128", "title": "Bathyllus", "text": "Bathyllus\n\nBathyllus was a dancer/performer of pantomimus in Rome during the period of Augustus. Born in Alexandria, he was the favourite comedic performer of Maecenas.\nHe is often described with the performer Pylades, who was seen as the epitome of tragic performance, while Bathyllus was seen as the epitome of comedic performance. They were both former slaves and they are both credited with having modernised pantomime in Rome adding different forms of dance which are often described as erotic. Each founded a school and had some political influence in Rome occasionally leading to their supporters clashing in the streets.\n\nAccording to Juvenal, a pantomime named Bathyllus, dancing, provoked Roman matrons to a state of sexual frenzy. Bathyllus appears in the illustrated edition of Juvenal's satire 'Against Women' by Aubrey Beardsley.\n\nReferences to a different, earlier, Bathyllus are found in the writing of Horace (epode 14) who describes him as beloved of Polycrates the Tyrant and the poet, Anacreon, who described him in his 29th ode. \n"}
{"id": "10349126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10349126", "title": "Casa Del Kung Fu", "text": "Casa Del Kung Fu\n\nCasa Del Kung Fu are a theatre/performance/film group based in Vienna, Austria.\n\nFounded by the infamous \"Verein zur Förderung subventionierter Kunst\" \"(German lit. \"Society for the advancement of subsidized art\")\" around 1993, they have put on many theatre plays and films screenings throughout Vienna.\n\nTheir most notable productions:\n\nat the theatre:\n\n\nat the :\n\n\nOtakoo Saloon is an irregular film and performance night put on by Casa Del Kung Fu at venues throughout Austria since 1996. It features short films by a variety of contributors, as well as short performances and sketches written by Austrian writer & playwright Peter Waldeck.\n\nThree characters, \"Jimmy Magic Salsa\", \"New York Potato Department - N.Y.P.D.\" and \"Fantastical Fly\", featured frequently in short films and performances at the Otakoo Saloon nights have also starred in a 100-part web cartoon series by the same name: Otakoo Saloon Cartoon\n\n"}
{"id": "20262480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20262480", "title": "Categories for the Description of Works of Art", "text": "Categories for the Description of Works of Art\n\nCategories for the Description of Works of Art (CDWA) describes the content of art databases by articulating a conceptual framework for describing and accessing information about works of art, architecture, other material culture, groups and collections of works, and related images. The CDWA includes 532 categories and subcategories. A small subset of categories are considered core in that they represent the minimum information necessary to identify and describe a work. The CDWA includes discussions, basic guidelines for cataloging, and examples. \n\nThe Categories provide a framework to which existing art information systems can be mapped and upon which new systems can be developed. In addition, the discussions in the CDWA identify vocabulary resources and descriptive practices that will make information residing in diverse systems both more compatible and more accessible. \n\nThe use of the CDWA framework will contribute to the integrity and longevity of data and will facilitate its inevitable migration to new systems as informational technology continues to evolve. Above all, it will help to give end-users consistent, reliable access to information, regardless of the system in which it resides. \n\nThese guidelines hopefully provide a common ground for reaching agreement on what information should be included in art information systems, and what information will be shared or exchanged with other institutions or systems. Target users are curators, registrars, researchers, information managers, and systems vendors.\n\nThe CDWA is a product of the Art Information Task Force (AITF), which encouraged dialog between art historians, art information professionals, and information providers so that together they could develop guidelines for describing works of art, architecture, groups of objects, and visual and textual surrogates. \n\nFormed in the early 1990s, the task force was made up of representatives from the communities that provide and use art information: art historians, museum curators and registrars, visual resource professionals, art librarians, information managers, and technical specialists. The work of the AITF was funded by the J. Paul Getty Trust, with a two-year matching grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to the College Art Association (CAA).\n\nARTstor, the J. Paul Getty Trust, and RLG Programs/OCLC have worked together to develop an XML schema to describe cultural materials and their surrogates to provide an easier and more sustainable model for contributing to union resources. This initiative was driven by the absence of a data content standard specifically designed for unique cultural works, and a technical format for expressing this data in a machine-readable format.\n\nCDWA Lite is an XML schema to describe core records for works of art and material culture based on CDWA and the Cataloging Cultural Objects (CCO) content standard. CDWA Lite records are intended for contribution to union catalogs and other repositories using the Open Archives Initiative (OAI) harvesting protocol. The CDWA Lite schema has been enlarged and integrated into the Lightweight Information Describing Objects (LIDO) schema, which is available on the CIDOC site. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51425958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51425958", "title": "Changes (advertisement)", "text": "Changes (advertisement)\n\nChanges is a British television advertisement launched in 1987 to promote the second-generation of the Volkswagen Golf. The 50-second ad was directed by David Bailey and stars the model Paula Hamilton as a woman throwing away some of her possessions. After discarding her wedding ring, pearl necklace, brooch and mink coat, she decides to keep her Volkswagen Golf and drives off in it with a smile on her face. \"Changes\" was named after the song that was used as its soundtrack, written by Alan Price. It was awarded the Silver prize at the 1988 British Arrows Awards, and is remembered as an indicator of car advertising's recognition of women's growing independence.\n\nA woman (Paula Hamilton) is leaving her husband. She tearfully exits her mews house, removes her wedding ring and posts it back through the letter box. Walking away, she angrily tears off her pearl necklace, throws away her brooch, and removes her mink coat. She approaches a drain, but, as she goes to drop the keys to her Volkswagen Golf down it, she changes her mind and decides instead to keep the car. The advert ends with her driving off in the Golf with a smile on her face; its strapline reads: \"If only everything in life was as reliable as a Volkswagen.\"\n\n\"Changes\" was created by the advertising agency Boase Massimi Pollitt on behalf of Volkswagen. It was directed by the British photographer David Bailey, who had first discovered Hamilton. For the piece, Hamilton was styled to resemble Princess Diana. The music used was the song \"Changes\" by Alan Price, which also gave its title to the advert itself. Set to the tune of \"What a Friend We Have in Jesus\", the song was written by Price for his friend Zoot Money while he was going through a divorce.\n\nCritical reaction to the advert was positive—it was awarded the Silver prize at the 1988 British Arrows Awards. As a result of the success of \"Changes\", Hamilton was catapulted to fame, but grew to resent only being known for it. Speaking to Matthew Wright in 1997, she remarked: \"All I always seem to be known as is Paula Hamilton the alcoholic and Volkswagen girl.\"\n\"Changes\" is remembered as an indicator of car advertising beginning to recognise women's increased independence – previous car adverts had largely only either featured women as models or depicted them as passengers. Reflecting on the advert in May 1998, Stephen Armstrong of \"The Guardian\" named it as one of the five best advertising campaigns, and remarked that it had \"spawned a new era in car advertising\". In April 2000 \"Changes\" was ranked at number 42 on Channel 4's \"The 100 Greatest TV Ads\", where it was described as being \"a sign that feminism had at last reached the ad men\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43652724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43652724", "title": "Communion of the Apostles (Barocci)", "text": "Communion of the Apostles (Barocci)\n\nThe Communion of the Apostles, or Institution of the Eucharist is a painting of the Last Supper by Federico Barocci located at Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome. It was commissioned for the family chapel of Pope Clement VIII Aldobrandini and completed between 1603 and 1608.\n\nIt was most likely the sight of Barocci's \"Presentation of the Virgin\" in the Chiesa Nuova at its unveiling in 1603 that led to the commission of the \"Communion\" four months later. On 13 August 1603 the pope communicated with the minister to Francesco Maria II della Rovere, duke of Urbino, Giacomo Sorbolongo, about acquiring an altarpiece from Barocci. At this time the Cavaliere d'Arpino was the pope's most important artist; the letter goes on to ask that d'Arpino not be told of the commission.\nThe commission was completed entirely in Urbino and efforts were made to supply Barocci with extensive information about the contextual chapel, which was frescoed by Cherubino Alberti with a \"Triumph of the Holy Cross\". Gian Pietro Bellori wrote that the pope was supplied with preparatory sketches. The pope sought the removal of Satan from the original design, and thereafter asked that it depict a night scene.\n\nBarocci quotes from Raphael's \"School of Athens\" by inserting the portrait of Heraclitus, which many believe is a portrait of Michelangelo. Significantly, he depicts Judas Iscariot using Michelangelo's portrait. To an audience familiar with this association, this would have been taken as particularly strong commentary on the status of the Michelangelo. Furthermore, by directly quoting from Raphael, who was Michelangelo's antithesis and favoured by the Clementine church, Barocci, and by implication Pope Clement VIII, inserted a comment on the relative status of the two artists within the church of the time.\n\nBarocci asked 1,500 scudi for the altarpiece. The fee undoubtedly was influenced by the number of figures. At the same point in his career (1604), he had accepted 300 scudi for a much simpler \"Crucifixion\" (Museo del Prado, Madrid).\n"}
{"id": "33444895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33444895", "title": "Cuisine of East Timor", "text": "Cuisine of East Timor\n\nThe Cuisine of East Timor consists of regional popular foods such as pork, fish, basil, tamarind, legumes, corn, rice, root vegetables, and tropical fruit. East Timorese cuisine has influences from Southeast Asian foods and from Portuguese dishes from its colonisation by Portugal. Flavours and ingredients from other former Portuguese colonies can be found due to the presence of Portuguese soldiers from other colonies in East Timor.\n\nThe food in East Timor is divided into two categories: vegetarian and non vegetarian.\nAs agriculture is the main occupation in East Timor, the primary food is rice, which is cultivated widely in this country. Apart from rice, other staple food items that are cultivated in East Timor include sweet potatoes, maize, cassava, and taro. These primary staples are supplemented with beans, cabbage, spinach, onions and cowpeas.\n\nThe second category of food consists of poultry, pigs, and goats. Most homes in East Timor raise their own food animals for meat. Fish is also a source of animal protein in this country as fishing is also an important occupation after agriculture.\n\n\n\nEast Timor's crops rely on the rains that come following the annual dry season. This leads to a period of poor food security coined the “Hungry Season” from November to February due to the unpredictable climate. Many households depend on their own production of food because of the erratic climate conditions, such as droughts.\n\nMany families subsist on akar, which is a widely available food source for the poor. It is dried palm tree bark, beaten into a powder, mixed with water to form a jelly and then cooked over fire. This leads to cases where nearly 58% of children under the age of five suffer from chronic malnutrition.\n\n\nThe coffee of East Timor is organic and a major cash crop for the island nation. Coffee accounts for 90 percent of the country’s non-oil exports, while 46 percent of East Timorese households rely solely on coffee for their income\n\nThe crop has grown in the country for centuries. It accounted for half of the country's trade when it was a Portuguese colony in the late 1800s, but during 24 years of Indonesian occupation the bumper business was neglected when the military took over - prices fluctuated and many coffee plantations were battlefields so the quality of beans worsened.\n\nBy the war’s end, agricultural experts estimated two generation’s worth of farming knowledge was lost and some plantations were abandoned. But because the trees got little attention the pesticide and fertiliser-free groves are popular for organic coffee lovers. Today, the coffee is known as the golden prince of East Timor agriculture - worth $10 million a year, 46,000 coffee farms employ one-fifth of East Timor’s population but it is a major battle to encourage farmers to improve the quality of East Timor’s agriculture.\n"}
{"id": "34833367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34833367", "title": "Cultural silence", "text": "Cultural silence\n\nCultural silence () was the boycott, ordered in January 1942 by the communist-dominated Slovene Liberation Front (OF), of all cultural activities and events connected with the German and Italian annexation of Slovenia because the Axis authorities limited or forbade cultural activities in Slovene. It was symbolically announced at a concert in the Union Auditorium in Ljubljana with the popular song \"The Linden Tree Became Green\" (). After the capitulation of Italy in 1943, it meant a complete stop to all cultural activity outside the OF.\n\nOn 23 January 1943, it was breached by the Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1944, 110 anticommunist authors published the almanac \"Help in the Winter\" () in protest against the policy. The cultural silence postponed the release of the 1941 documentary film \"O, Vrba\" until August 1945.\n\nThe \"cultural silence\" was never precisely defined, and after the war the communist authorities used it as a weapon to exact revenge on cultural figures that were deemed undesirable while turning a blind eye to the wartime activity of other cultural figures.\n"}
{"id": "384457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384457", "title": "Culture of Angola", "text": "Culture of Angola\n\nThe culture of Angola is influenced by the Portuguese. Portugal occupied the coastal enclave Luanda, and later also Benguela, since the 16th/17th centuries, and expanded into the territory of what is now Angola in the 19th/20th centuries, ruling it until 1975. Both countries share cultural aspects: language (Portuguese) and main religion (Roman Catholic Christianity). However, the Angolan culture is mostly native Bantu, which was mixed with Portuguese culture. The diverse ethnic communities with their own cultural traits, traditions and native languages or dialects include the Ovimbundu, Ambundu, Bakongo, Chokwe, Avambo and other peoples.\n\nThere are over 100 distinct ethnic groups and languages/dialects in Angola. Although Portuguese is the official language, for many black Angolans it is a second or even third language. The three dominant ethnic groups are the Ovimbundu, Mbundu (better called Ambundu, speaking Kimbundu) and the Bakongo. There are also small numbers of Mestiço (mixed African and European descent) and ethnic white Europeans as well.\n\nThe largest ethnolinguistic category, the Ovimbundu, were located in west-central Angola, south of Mbundu-inhabited regions. In 1988 the United States Department of State estimated that they constituted 37 percent of the population. The language of the Ovimbundu is Umbundu.\n\nThe core area of the Ovimbundu kingdoms was that part of the Benguela Plateau north of the town of Huambo. Expansion continuing into the twentieth century enlarged their territory considerably, although most Ovimbundu remained in that part of the plateau above 1,200 meters in elevation.\n\nLike most African groups of any size, the Ovimbundu were formed by the mixture of groups of diverse origin (and varying size). Little is known of developments before the seventeenth century, but there is some evidence of additions to the people who occupied the Benguela Plateau at that time. Over time, a number of political entities, usually referred to as kingdoms, were formed. By the eighteenth century, there were twenty-two kingdoms. Thirteen were fully independent; the other nine were largely autonomous but owed tribute to one of the more powerful entities, usually the kingdom of Bailundu, but in some cases Wambu or Ciyaka. By the beginning of the second decade of the twentieth century, effective occupation by the Portuguese had caused a fairly rapid decline in the power of the heads of these kingdoms, but Ovimbundu continued to think of themselves as members of one or another of the groups based on these political units after World War II.\n\nIn addition, to the groups that clearly spoke dialects of Umbundu, there were two on the periphery of Ovimbundu distribution: the Mbui, who seemed to straddle the linguistic boundary between the Ovimbundu and the Mbundu; and the Dombe living to the west near the coast, whose language was closely related to Umbundu, although not a dialect of it. The Dombe and several other groups, including the Nganda and the Hanya (who, according to one account, spoke Umbundu dialects) relied on cattle raising, as did their southern neighbors, the Herero and the Ovambo. Still others, typically the old tributary kingdoms, came to speak Umbundu relatively recently.\n\nUntil the Portuguese established firm control over their territory, the Ovimbundu – particularly those of the major kingdoms of Bailundu (to the northwest), Bihe (to the northeast), and Wambu (in the center) – played important roles as intermediaries in the slave, ivory, and beeswax trades, acting as carriers, entrepreneurs, and raiders. With the decline of the slave trade in the last decades of the nineteenth century, the entrepreneurs among the Ovimbundu turned to the rubber trade, abandoning the warfare and raiding that had hitherto been integrally related to their economic activities. The rubber slump at the beginning of the twentieth century, the end of the de facto autonomy of their kingdoms not long after, and the displacement of Ovimbundu traders by the Portuguese forced these people to turn to cash-crop agriculture. (The men had hitherto had little involvement with cultivation; in fact, the women continued to be responsible for the cultivation of subsistence crops.)\n\nThe introduction of cash crops, particularly coffee, led to a series of changes in settlement patterns and social arrangements. But after a time, soil exhaustion, lack of support of African agriculture by the colonial authorities, incursions of Portuguese settlers who took over valuable property in the highlands, and a number of other factors contributed to a decline in the success of Ovimbundu cash-crop agriculture. By the early 1960s, up to 100,000 Ovimbundu, estimated at one-quarter of the group's able-bodied adult males, were migrating on one-year and two-year labor contracts to the coffee plantations of Uíge and Cuanza Norte provinces; another 15,000 to 20,000 sought work in Luanda and Lobito; and roughly the same number worked in the industrial plants of Huambo or for European farmers in the Benguela Plateau. In most cases, remuneration was low, but these migrant workers had little alternative. This pattern continued through the remainder of the colonial period, except for those males who were involved in nationalist activity (usually with UNITA).\n\nIn the 1940s, the Ovimbundu organized what was probably the most closely knit Angolan community of the colonial era. With the financial and ideological aid of North American Christian missionaries, they established a network of Christian villages, each with its own leadership, schools, churches, and clinics. They were thus able to maintain the Ovimbundu culture while providing educational and social amenities for their children. The generation that emerged from this structure became the disciples of Jonas Savimbi and the basis for UNITA, which in the 1980s used the same concepts to maintain Ovimbundu cohesiveness within UNITA-controlled areas.\n\nGiven the degree of change in Ovimbundu society and the involvement of the Ovimbundu with UNITA, it was difficult to determine their long-range role in Angolan politics. Just how long Ovimbundu solidarity would persist under changing circumstances could not be predicted.\n\nJust north of Ovimbundu territory lived the Mbundu, the second largest ethnolinguistic category, whose language was Kimbundu. In 1988 they made up an estimated 25 percent of the Angolan population. In the sixteenth century, most of the groups that came to be known as Mbundu (a name apparently first applied by the neighboring Bakongo) lived well to the east of the coast in the plateau region (at a somewhat lower altitude than the Ovimbundu); a few groups in the far northeast lived at altitudes below 700 meters. In general, the outlines of the area occupied by the Mbundu had remained the same. The major exception was their expansion of this area to parts of the coast formerly occupied by Bakongo and others.\n\nAlthough most of the boundaries of Mbundu territory remained fairly firm, the social and linguistic boundaries of the category had shifted, some of the peripheral groups having been variably influenced by neighboring groups and the groups close to the coast having been more strongly influenced by the Portuguese than were the more remote ones. Moreover, the subdivisions discernible for the sixteenth century (and perhaps earlier) also changed in response to a variety of social and linguistic influences in the colonial period. The Mbundu in general and the western Mbundu in particular, located as they were not far from Luanda, were susceptible to those influences for a longer time and in a more intense way than were other Angolan groups.\n\nThere were a number of Kimbundu dialects and groups. Two, each incorporating Portuguese terms, gradually became dominant, serving as lingua francas for many Mbundu. The western dialect was centered in Luanda, to which many Mbundu had migrated over the years. The people speaking it, largely urban, had come to call themselves Ambundu or Akwaluanda, thus distinguishing themselves from rural Mbundu. The eastern dialect, known as Ambakista, had its origins in the eighteenth century in a mixed Portuguese-Mbundu trading center at Ambaca near the western edge of the plateau region, but it spread in the nineteenth century through much of eastern Mbundu territory. Another Kimbundu-speaking group, the Dembos, were generally included in the Mbundu category. Living north of Luanda, they had also been strongly influenced by Kikongo speakers.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the Mbundu living in the cities, such as Luanda and Malanje, had adopted attributes of Portuguese lifestyle . Many had intermarried with Portuguese, which led to the creation of an entirely new class of mestiços. Those who received formal education and fully adopted Portuguese customs became assimilados.\n\nThe Mbundu were the MPLA's strongest supporters when the movement first formed in 1956. The MPLA's president, Agostinho Neto, was the son of a Mbundu Methodist pastor and a graduate of a Portuguese medical school. In the 1980s, the Mbundu were predominant in Luanda, Bengo, Cuanza Norte, Malanje, and northern Cuanza Sul provinces.\n\nThe Kikongo-speaking Bakongo made up an estimated 15 percent of the Angolan population. In 1988 the Bakongo were the third largest ethnolinguistic group in Angola. Concentrated in Uíge, Zaire, and Cabinda provinces, where they constituted a majority of the population, the Bakongo spilled over into the nation of Zaire (where they were the largest single ethnic group) and Congo. Although the Angolan city of São Salvador (renamed Mbanza Congo) was the capital of their ancient kingdom, most of the Bakongo were situated in Zaire.\n\nTheir former political unity long broken, the various segments of the ethnolinguistic category in Angola experienced quite different influences in the colonial period. The Bashikongo, living near the coast, had the most sustained interaction with the Portuguese but were less affected by participation in the coffee economy than the Sosso and Pombo, who were situated farther east and south. All three groups, however, were involved in the uprising of 1961. The Pombo, still farther east but close to the Zairian border, were much influenced by developments in the Belgian Congo (present-day Zaire), and a large contingent of Pombo living in Léopoldville (present-day Kinshasa) formed a political party in the early 1950s. The Solongo, dwelling on the relatively dry coastal plain, had little contact with the Portuguese. They and the Ashiluanda of the island of Luanda, to the south, were Angola's only African sea fishermen.\n\nThe Mayombe (also spelled Maiombe) of the mountain forests of Cabinda spoke a dialect of Kikongo but were not part of the ancient kingdom. That part of the Mayombe living in Zaire did join with the Zairian Bakongo in the Alliance of Bakongo (Alliance des Bakongo – Abako) during the period of party formation in the Belgian Congo, but the Cabindan Mayombe (and other Kikongo-speaking groups in the enclave), relatively remote geographically and culturally from the Bakongo of Angola proper, showed no solidarity with the latter. Instead, in 1961 the Mayombe formed a Cabindan separatist movement, the Alliance of Mayombe (Alliance de Mayombe – Alliama), which merged with two other Cabindan separatist movements in 1963 to form the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (Frente para a Libertação do Enclave de Cabinda – FLEC).\n\nOne of the first major revolts of the nationalist struggle was instigated by Bakongo in March 1961 in the northwest. The Portuguese crushed the peasant attack, organized by the Bakongo group, the Union of Angolan Peoples (União das Populações de Angola – UPA), on their settlements, farms, and administrative outposts. Subsequently, 400,000 Bakongo fled into Zaire. In 1962 the UPA formed the National Front for the Liberation of Angola (Frente Nacional de Libertação de Angola – FNLA), which became one of the three major nationalist groups (the other two being the MPLA and UNITA) involved in the long and bloody war of independence. Most of the FNLA's traditional Bakongo constituency fled into exile in Zaire during the war. Following independence, however, many Bakongo exiles returned to their traditional homesteads in Angola. They had since retained their ethnolinguistic integrity.\n\nThe Bakongo are a matriarchal tribe, which means that the women have the authority and power in the tribe.\n\nThe hyphenated category Lunda-Chokwe constituted an estimated 8 percent of the Angolan population in 1988. As the hyphenation implies, the category comprises at least two subsets, the origins of which are known to be different and the events leading to their inclusion in a single set are recent. The Lunda alone were a congeries of peoples brought together in the far-flung Lunda Empire (seventeenth century to nineteenth century) under the hegemony of a people calling themselves Ruund, its capital in the eastern section of Zaire's Katanga Province(present-day Shaba Province). Lunda is the form of the name used for the Ruund and for themselves by adjacent peoples to the south who came under Ruund domination. In some sources, the Ruund are called Northern Lunda, and their neighbors are called Southern Lunda. The most significant element of the latter, called Ndembu (or Ndembo), lived in Zaire and Zambia. In Angola the people with whom the northward-expanding Chokwe came into contact were chiefly Ruund speakers. The economic and political decline of the empire by the second half of the nineteenth century and the demarcation of colonial boundaries ended Ruund political domination over those elements beyond the Zairian borders.\n\nThe Chokwe, until the latter half of the nineteenth century a small group of hunters and traders living near the headwaters of the Cuango and Cassai rivers, were at the southern periphery of the Lunda Empire and paid tribute to its head. In the latter half of the nineteenth century, the Chokwe became increasingly involved in trading and raiding, and they expanded in all directions, but chiefly to the north, in part absorbing the Ruund and other peoples. In the late nineteenth century, the Chokwe went so far as to invade the capital of the much-weakened empire in Katanga. As a consequence of this Chokwe activity, a mixed population emerged in parts of Zaire as well as in Angola, although there were virtually homogenous communities in both countries consisting of Chokwe, Ruund, or Southern Lunda.\n\nThe intermingling of Lunda (Ruund and Southern Lunda) and Chokwe, in which other smaller groups were presumably also caught up, continued until about 1920. It was only after that time that the mixture acquired the hyphenated label and its members began to think of themselves (in some contexts) as one people.\n\nThe languages spoken by the various elements of the so-called Lunda-Chokwe were more closely related to each other than to other Bantu languages in the Zairian-Angolan savanna but were by no means mutually intelligible. The three major tongues (Ruund, Lunda, and Chokwe) had long been distinct from each other, although some borrowing of words, particularly of Ruund political titles by the others, had occurred.\n\nPortuguese anthropologists and some others accepting their work have placed some of the peoples (Minungu and Shinji) in this area with the Mbundu, and the Minungu language is sometimes considered a transitional one between Kimbundu and Chokwe. There may in fact have been important Mbundu influence on these two peoples, but the work of a number of linguists places their languages firmly with the set that includes Ruund, Lunda, and Chokwe.\n\nEconomic and political developments in the 1970s affected various sections of the Lunda-Chokwe differently. Substantial numbers of them live in or near Lunda Norte Province, which contains the principal diamond mines of Angola. Diamond mining had been significant since 1920, and preindependence data show that the industry employed about 18,000 persons. Moreover, the mining company provided medical and educational facilities for its employees and their dependents, thereby affecting even greater numbers. How many of those employed were Lunda-Chokwe is not clear, although neighboring villages would have been affected by the presence of the mining complex in any case. In the intra-Angolan political conflict preceding and immediately following independence, there apparently was some division between the northern Lunda-Chokwe, especially those with some urban experience, who tended to support the MPLA, and the rural Chokwe, particularly those farther south, who tended to support UNITA. In the 1980s, as the UNITA insurgency intensified in the border areas of eastern and northern Angola, Lunda-Chokwe families were forced to flee into Zaire's Shaba Province, where many remained in 1988, living in three sites along the Benguela Railway. The impact of this move on the ethnolinguistic integrity of these people was not known.\n\nA somewhat different kind of political impact began in the late 1960s, when refugees from Katanga in Zaire, speakers of Lunda or a related language, crossed the border into what are now Lunda Sul and northern Moxico provinces. In 1977 and 1978, these refugees and others whom they had recruited formed the National Front for the Liberation of the Congo (Front National pour la Libération du Congo – FNLC) and used the area as a base from which they launched their invasions of Shaba Province. In the 1980s, these rebels and perhaps still other refugees remained in Angola, many in Lunda Sul Province, although the Angolan government as part of its rapprochement with Zaire was encouraging them to return to their traditional homes. The Zairian government offered amnesty to political exiles on several occasions in the late 1980s and conferred with the Angolan government on the issue of refugees. In 1988, however, a significant number of Zairian refugees continued to inhabit LundaChokwe territory. The significance for local Lunda-Chokwe of the presence and activities of these Zairians was not known.\n\nNgangela is generic term for a number of closely related Bantu languages in south-eastern Angola spoken by the Ngonzelo, Luchazi, Nyemba, Luvale, Luimbi, Mbunda, Mbuela, Yauma and Nkangala ethnic groups. Yauma language and Nkangala language are in turn Mbunda dialects. Nkangala, Mbalango, Sango, Ciyengele (\"Shamuka\") and Ndundu are closely related.\n\nIn far southwestern Angola, three categories of Bantu-speaking peoples have been distinguished. Two of them, the Ovambo and the Herero, were more heavily represented elsewhere: the Ovambo in Namibia and the Herero in Namibia and Botswana. The Herero dispersion, especially that section of it in Botswana, was the consequence of the migration of the Herero from German South West Africa (present-day Namibia) after their rebellion against German rule in 1906. The third group was the Nyaneka-Humbe. Unlike the other groups, the Nyaneka-Humbe did not disperse outside Angola. In 1988 the Nyaneka-Humbe (the first group is also spelled Haneca; the latter group is also spelled Nkumbi) constituted 3 percent of the population. The Ovambo, of which the largest subgroup were the Kwanhama (also spelled Kwanyama), made up an estimated 2 percent of the Angolan population. In the second half of the nineteenth century, the Kwanhama Kingdom of southern Angola was a powerful state involved in a lucrative trade relationship with the Portuguese, who, together with the Germans, occupied Kwanhama territory in the early twentieth century. In the 1980s, the Ovambo were seminomadic cattle herders and farmers. The Herero constituted no more than 0.5 percent of the population in 1988. Traditionally, the Herero were nomadic or seminomadic herders living in the arid coastal lowlands and in the mountainous escarpment to the east in Namibe, Benguela, and Huíla provinces. Many Herero migrated south to Namibia when the Portuguese launched a military expedition against them in 1940 following their refusal to pay taxes.\n\nIn the southeastern corner of the country the Portuguese distinguished a set of Bantu-speaking people, described on a map prepared by José Redinha in 1973 as the Xindonga. The sole linguistic group listed in this category was the Cussu. The Language Map of Africa, prepared under the direction of David Dalby for the International African Institute, noted two sets of related languages in southeastern Angola. The first set included Liyuwa, Mashi, and North Mbukushu. These languages and other members of the set were also found in Zambia and Namibia. The members of the second set, Kwangali-Gcikuru and South Mbukushu, were also found in Namibia and Botswana. The hyphen between Kwangali and Gcikuru implies mutual intelligibility. Little is known of these groups; in any case, their members were very few.\n\nAll of these southern Angolan groups relied in part or in whole on cattle raising for subsistence. Formerly, the Herero were exclusively herders, but they gradually came to engage in some cultivation. Although the Ovambo had depended in part on cultivation for a much longer time, dairy products had been an important source of subsistence, and cattle were the chief measure of wealth and prestige.\n\nThe southwestern groups, despite their remoteness from the major centers of white influence during most of the colonial period, were to varying degrees affected by the colonial presence and, after World War II, by the arrival of numbers of Portuguese in such places as Moçâmedes (present-day Namibe) and Sá da Bandeira (present-day Lubango). The greatest resistance to the Portuguese was offered by the Ovambo, who were not made fully subject to colonial rule until 1915 and who earned a considerable reputation among the Portuguese and other Africans for their efforts to maintain their independence. In the nationalist struggle of the 1960s and early 1970s and in the postindependence civil war, the Ovambo tended to align themselves with the Ovimbundu-dominated UNITA. Many also sympathized with the cause of SWAPO, a mostly Ovambo organization fighting to liberate Namibia from South African rule.\n\nThroughout the lower third of Angola, chiefly in the drier areas, were small bands of people. Until the twentieth century, most of them were nomadic hunters and gatherers, although some engaged in herding, either in addition to their other subsistence activities or as their chief means of livelihood. Those who survived turned, at least in part, to cultivation.\n\nThe bands living a nomadic or seminomadic life in Cuando Cubango Province (and occasionally reaching as far east as the upper Cunene River) differed physically and linguistically from their sedentary Bantu-speaking neighbors. Short, saffron-colored, and in other respects physically unlike the Nganguela, Ovambo, and Nyaneka-Humbe, they spoke a language of the !Xu-Angola or Maligo set of tongues referred to as Khoisan or Click languages (the exclamation point denotes a specific kind of click), whose precise relations to each other are not yet fully understood by observers.\n\nSeveral other hunting and gathering or herding groups, the members of which were taller and otherwise physically more like the local Bantu speakers, lived farther west, adjacent to the Ovambo and Herero. These people spoke Bantu languages and were less nomadic than the Khoisan speakers, but they were clearly different from the Ovambo and Herero and probably preceded them in the area. As with most African art, the wooden masks and sculptures of Angola are not merely aesthetic creations. They play an important role in cultural rituals, representing life and death, the passage from childhood to adulthood, the celebration of a new harvest and the marking of the hunting season.\nAngolan artisans work in wood, bronze, ivory, malachite or ceramic mediums. Each ethno-linguistic group in Angola has its own unique artistic traits. Perhaps the single most famous piece of Angolan art is the Cokwe thinker, a masterpiece of harmony and symmetry of line. The Lunda-Cokwe in the north eastern part of Angola is also known for its superior plastic arts.\n\nOther signature pieces of Angolan art include the female mask Mwnaa-Pwo worn by male dancers in their puberty rituals, the polychromatic Kalelwa masks used during circumcision ceremonies, Cikungu and Cihongo masks which conjure up the images of the Lunda-Cokwe mythology (two key figures in this pantheon are princess Lweji and the civilizing prince Tschibinda-Ilunga), and the black ceramic art of Moxico of central/eastern Angola.\n\nIn 1960 a little more than 1 percent of the total population of Angola consisted of \"mestiços\". It has been estimated that by 1970 these people constituted perhaps 2 percent of the population. Some \"mestiços\" left at independence, but the departure of much greater numbers of Portuguese probably resulted in an increase in the proportion of \"mestiços\" in the Angolan total. In 1988 \"mestiços\" probably continued to number about 2 percent of the Angolan population.\n\nThe process of mixing started very early and continued until independence. But it was not until about 1900, when the number of Portuguese in Angola was very small and consisted almost entirely of males, that the percentage of \"mestiços\" in the population exceeded the percentage of whites.\n\nAfter a number of generations, the antecedents of many \"mestiços\" became mixed to the extent that the Portuguese felt a need to establish a set of distinctions among them. Many \"mestiços\" accepted this system as a means of social ranking. One source suggests that the term \"mestiço\" used alone in a social context applied specifically to the offspring of a mulatto and a white; the term \"mestiço cabrito\" referred to the descendant of a union between two mulattos; and the term \"mestico cafuso\" was applied to the child of a union between a mulatto and a black African. It is possible that an even more complex set of distinctions was sometimes used.\n\nMost \"mestiços\" were urban dwellers and had learned to speak Portuguese either as a household language or in school. Although some of the relatively few rural \"mestiços\" lived like the Africans among whom they dwelt, most apparently achieved the status of \"assimilados,\" the term applied before 1961 to those nonwhites who fulfilled certain specific requirements and were therefore registered as Portuguese citizens.\n\nWith some exceptions, \"mestiços\" tended to identify with Portuguese culture, and their strongly voiced opposition over the years to the conditions imposed by the colonial regime stressed their rights to a status equivalent to that of whites. Before World War II, only occasionally did \"mestiço\" intellectuals raise their voices on behalf of the African population. Thus, despite the involvement of \"mestiços\" in the nationalist struggle beginning in 1961 and their very important role in the upper echelons of the government and party, significant segments of the African population tended to resent them. This legacy continued in the late 1980s because \"mestiços\" dominated the MPLA-PT hierarchy.\n\nStarting in the late 1970s, an average of 50,000 Cuban troops and civilian technical personnel (the overwhelming majority of whom were male) were stationed in Angola. As a result, a portion of the nation's younger population was undoubtedly of mixed African and Cuban descent. This new category of racial mixture, however, had not been described by researchers as of late 1988, and no figures existed on how many Angolans might fall into this category.\n\n"}
{"id": "31937112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31937112", "title": "Dai De", "text": "Dai De\n\nDai De (), also known as Da Dai, (; more formally, \"Dai the Greater\"), birth and death unknown, was a Confucian scholar of the Former Han Dynasty. He was active during the reign of Emperor Yuan of Han (48–33 BC).\n\nHe was the son of Dai Ren (戴仁) and the uncle of Dai Sheng. He was a native of Liang (now Shangqiu, Henan) and a founder of the New Text Confucian (Simplified:今文经学; Traditional: 今文經學 \"Jinwen jingxue\") exegesis of “classical texts concerned with codes of conduct” (Simplified: 今文礼学; Traditional: 今文禮學: \"Jinwen lixue\") during the Former Han Dynasty. \n\nHe was traditionally credited with producing a substantially edited version of the \"Book of Rites\" (\"Li Ji\") that bore his name: \"Dai the Greater's Book of Rites\" (大戴禮記 \"Da Dai Li Ji\"). It is likely, however, that Dai's prestigious name was attached to a reduced version of the \"Book of Rites\" in order to legitimate a much-revised text. Traditionally, the preceding version was said to have consisted of an initial 131 essays (篇 \"pian\"), to which an additional 83 were subsequently added. Dai is said to have reduced the resulting 214 essays to 85, which his nephew, Dai Sheng, was then supposed to have further reduced too 46. 3 additional essays were added later to reach a final total of 49. There is no reliable evidence, however, to attribute these revisions to either Dai De or Dai Sheng, both of whom were, nevertheless, trained as Confucian scholars specializing in various texts concerning \"codes of conduct\" (禮 \"li\"). Dai's reputed influence on these related texts, which include the \"Rites of Zhou\" and the \"Book of Etiquette and Ceremonial\", is equally uncertain.\n\nA short biography of Dai can be found in the \"RoutledgeCurzon Encyclopedia of Confucianism\" (Routledge, 2003).\n"}
{"id": "1028460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028460", "title": "Death Note", "text": "Death Note\n\n\"Death Note\" was first serialized in Shueisha's manga magazine \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" from December 2003 to May 2006. The 108 chapters were collected and published into 12 \"tankōbon\" volumes between April 2004 and July 2006. An anime television adaptation aired in Japan from October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007. Composed of 37 episodes, the anime was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsurō Araki. A light novel based on the series, written by Nisio Isin, was also released in 2006. Additionally, various video games have been published by Konami for the Nintendo DS. The series was adapted into three live action films released in Japan on June 17, 2006, , and , and a television drama in 2015. A miniseries entitled \"\" and were released in 2016. An American film adaptation was released on Netflix on August 25, 2017.\n\n\"Death Note\" media is licensed and released in North America by Viz Media, with the exception of the video games and soundtracks. The episodes from the anime first appeared in North America as downloadable from IGN, before Viz Media licensed it and it aired on YTV's Bionix anime block in Canada and on Adult Swim in the United States with a DVD release following. The live-action films briefly played in certain North American theaters in 2008, before receiving home video releases. In 2015, the collected volumes of the \"Death Note\" manga had over 30 million copies in circulation.\n\nIn Tokyo, an intelligent yet disaffected high-school student named Light Yagami finds the \"Death Note\", a mysterious black notebook which can kill anyone as long as the user knows both the target's name and face. After verifying that the notebook works, Light sets out to create a utopian world without evil, killing numerous high-profile Japanese criminals, before eventually targeting international law-offenders around the world. Eventually, Light is visited by Ryuk, a Japanese god of death and the Death Note's previous owner, who dropped the notebook into the human world out of boredom. Ryuk, who is invisible to anyone who has not touched the Death Note, is amused by Light's actions and serves as Light's companion.\n\nAs numerous criminals and convicts around the world begin to die of spontaneous heart attacks, the global media dub the mysterious figure responsible for the murders as \"Kira\", a Japanese trans-literation of the word \"killer\", who is both feared and beloved by the public and the law enforcement agencies. Hoping to apprehend Kira, Interpol requests the assistance of an enigmatic and highly-esteemed international consulting detective, known as L, who has cracked numerous crime cases around the world, to assist them in the investigation. After deducing that Kira is based in Japan, L stages a TV broadcast in which he tricks Light into revealing that he is in the Kanto region of Japan, by manipulating him to kill a decoy. Humiliated, Light vows to kill L, whom he views as obstructing his plans. L quickly deduces that Kira has inside knowledge of the Japanese police's investigation, led by Light's father, Soichiro Yagami. The FBI send a team of agents to monitor the families of those connected with the investigation, but Light outmaneuvers and kills them all. Nonetheless, L picks up enough hints to designate Light as the prime suspect. Around this time, Light graduates from high school to college. L recruits Light into the Kira Task Force, both trying to get the other to reveal crucial info.\n\nAt this point, a famous model/actress named Misa Amane gains a second Death Note from a Shinigami named Rem. Misa makes a deal with Rem for Shinigami eyes, which allows her to kill knowing only the face at the cost of half her lifespan. Misa commits numerous murders, sends taped recordings to the police, and eventually uncovers Light's identity as the original Kira. Infatuated with Light, she demands Light be her boyfriend. Although he does not love Misa, Light agrees, intending to use Misa's Shinigami eyes to discern L's true name. However, before she can do so, L deduces that Misa is likely the second Kira and detains her. Rem, who has feelings for Misa, threatens to kill Light if he does not find a way to save Misa. Light arranges a scheme in which he and Misa temporarily lose their memories of the Death Note, and has Rem pass the Death Note to a less morally-driven individual, Kyosuke Higuchi of the Yotsuba Group. Now with no knowledge of the Death Note, Light wholeheartedly joins the investigation. Together, Light and L deduce Higuchi's identity, arrest him, and discover the existence of the Death Notes and the Shinigami. When they touch the Death Note, Light and Misa regain their memories, and Light kills Higuchi with a piece of the Death Note, regaining possession of the book. However, L casts suspicion on Misa, forcing Rem to murder L to save her. Rem dies in the process, as it is forbidden for Shinigami to protect human individuals. The task force agrees to cover up L's death and appoint Light as the new L. The investigation stalls as a result.\n\nFour years later, crime rates worldwide have massively dropped, but cults have arisen which adore Kira. Two intelligent young men, who were raised as potential successors to L, are revealed: Near and Mello. Both are aware that L is dead, and thus consider Light, the current L, a prime suspect. Mello, along with the Mafia's assistance, kidnaps Light's sister, resulting in his father's death during the rescue mission. As suspicion starts to fall again on Misa, Light passes Misa's Death Note to a fervent supporter of Kira, Teru Mikami. He also appoints a well-known newscaster, Kiyomi Takada as Kira's public spokesperson. Realizing that Takada is connected to Kira, Mello kidnaps her. Takada kills Mello with a hidden page of the Death Note, but is killed by Light, in order to dispel suspicions. Shortly after, Near deduces Mikami's connection to Kira and arranges a meeting between Light and the current Kira Task Force members. Light seizes the chance to have Mikami kill Near as well as all the task force members. However, Mikami's Death Note fails to work. It is revealed that Near had replaced Mikami's Death Note with a decoy. Perusing the names Mikami had written down, only Light's is missing, which proves Light as Kira. A scuffle breaks out during which Light is grievously wounded. Ryuk, realizing that Light will spend the rest of his life in prison, writes down Light's name in his Death Note as he had promised to do at the beginning of the story.\n\nThe core plot device of the story is the \"Death Note\" itself, a black notebook with instructions (known as \"Rules of the Death Note\") written on the inside. When used correctly, it allows anyone to commit a murder, knowing only the victim's name and face. According to the director of the live-action films, Shusuke Kaneko, \"[t]he idea of spirits living in words is an ancient Japanese concept... In a way, it's a very Japanese story\".\n\nArtist Takeshi Obata originally thought of the books as \"Something you would automatically think was a Death Note\". Deciding that this design would be cumbersome, he instead opted for a more accessible college notebook. Death Notes were originally conceived as changing based on time and location, resembling scrolls in ancient Japan, or the Old Testament in medieval Europe. However, this idea was never used.\n\nWriter Tsugumi Ohba had no particular themes in mind for \"Death Note\". When pushed, he suggested: \"Humans will all eventually die and never come back to life, so let's give it our all while we're alive\". He went on to say that \"no human has the right to pass judgment on another's actions. No one should play God\". He said that Near's climactic speech about good and evil was rooted in his own beliefs.\n\nIn a 2012 paper, Jolyon Baraka Thomas characterised \"Death Note\" as heavily influenced by the conflicts between liberty and security; as illustrating that high moral ideals are easily corrupted, and that people will always justify horrific acts of violence in the name of safety. Thomas writes that \"the price of peace is death\".\n\nThomas' paper lists \"Death Note\" as one of the later and more sophisticated psychological thrillers released in the wake of the 1995 Tokyo subway sarin attack, saying that it examines the human tendency to express itself through \"horrific\" cults and describes the negative effects of those cults on the members, on their families, and on society. Through the moral relativity that characterizes the story throughout, readers are reminded that their own ideas of good and evil might not differ so much from those of extremist cult members.\n\nThe \"Death Note\" concept derived from a rather general concept involving Shinigami and \"specific rules\". Ohba wanted to create a suspense series because he did not feel that he could have created a fight-style series and that the genre had few suspense series' available to the public. After publication of the pilot chapter, the series was not expected to be approved as a serialized comic by the author, who did not consider it to \"fit with \"Jump\"\". Ohba said that, when he learned that \"Death Note\" had received approval and that Takeshi Obata would create the artwork, he \"couldn't even believe it\". Due to positive reactions, \"Death Note\" became a serialized manga series.\n\n\"Thumbnails\" were created incorporating dialog, panel layout, and basic drawings, and were sent to the illustrator. The editor reviewed the thumbnails and sent them to the illustrator (Obata) with the script set in stone and the panel layout \"mostly done\". Obata then determined the expressions and \"camera angles\" and created the final artwork. Ohba concentrated on the tempo and the amount of dialogue, making sure that the text was as concise as possible. Ohba commented that he believed \"reading too much exposition\" would be tiring and would negatively affect the atmosphere and \"air of suspense\". Significant artistic license was given to the illustrator who worked on basic descriptions, such as \"abandoned building\", and this extended to the design of the Death Notes with Obata given a free rein.\n\nWhen Ohba decided on the plot he internally visualized the panels while on his bed, drinking tea, or walking around his house, needing to feel relaxed while visualizing the panels. On many occasions, the original draft was too long and needed to be refined various times before the desired \"tempo\" and \"flow\" for the chapter was finalized. The writer remarked on his preference for reading the previous \"two or four\" chapters carefully to ensure consistency in the story.\n\nThe typical weekly production schedule consisted of five days of creating and thinking and one-day using a pencil to insert dialogue into rough drafts; after this point, the writer faxed any initial drafts to the editor. The illustrator's weekly production schedule involved one day with the thumbnails, layout, and pencils and one day with additional penciling and inking. Obata's assistants usually worked for four days and Obata spent one day to finish it. Obata said that sometimes he took a few extra days to color pages and that this \"messed with the schedule\". In contrast, the writer took three or four days to create a chapter on some occasions, while on others he took a month. Obata said that his schedule remained consistent except when he had to create color pages.\n\nOhba and Obata rarely met in person during the creation of the serialized manga; instead, the two met with the editor. The first time they met in person was at an editorial party in January 2004. Obata said that, despite the intrigue, he did not ask his editor about Ohba's plot developments as he anticipated the new thumbnails every week. The two did not discuss the final chapters with one another and they continued to talk with the editor. Ohba said that when he asked the editor if Obata had \"said anything\" about the story and plot the editor responded: \"No, nothing\".\n\nOhba claims that the series ended more or less in the manner that he intended for it to end; he considered the idea of L defeating Light Yagami with Light dying, but instead chose to use the \"Yellow Box Warehouse\" ending. According to Ohba, the details had been set \"from the beginning\". The writer wanted an ongoing plot line instead of an episodic series because \"Death Note\" was serialized and its focus was intended to be on a cast with a series of events triggered by the Death Note. \"13: How to Read\" states that the humorous aspects of \"Death Note\" originated from Ohba's \"enjoyment of humorous stories\".\n\nWhen Ohba was asked, during an interview, whether the series was meant to be about enjoying the plot twists and psychological warfare, Ohba responded by saying that this concept was the reason why he was \"very happy\" to place the story in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\".\n\nThe \"Death Note\" process began when Ohba brought thumbnails for two concept ideas to Shueisha; Ohba said that the \"Death Note\" pilot, one of the concepts, was \"received well\" by editors and attained positive reactions by readers. Ohba described keeping the story of the pilot to one chapter as \"very difficult\" and he said that he remembered it took over a month to begin writing the chapter. He added that the story had to revive the killed characters with the Death Eraser and that he \"didn't really care\" for that plot device.\n\nObata said that he wanted to draw the story after he heard of a \"horror story featuring Shinigami\". According to Obata, when he first received the rough draft created by Ohba, he \"didn't really get it\" at first and he wanted to work on the project due to the presence of Shinigami and because the work \"was dark\". He also said he wondered about the progression of the plot as he read the thumbnails, and if \"Jump\" readers would enjoy reading the comic. Obata said that while there is little action and the main character \"doesn't really drive the plot\", he enjoyed the atmosphere of the story. He stated that he drew the pilot chapter so that it would appeal to himself.\n\nOhba brought the rough draft of the pilot chapter to the editorial department. Obata came into the picture at a later point to create the artwork. They did not meet in person while creating the pilot chapter. Ohba said that the editor told him he did not need to meet with Obata to discuss the pilot; Ohba said \"I think it worked out all right\".\n\nTetsurō Araki, the director, said that he wished to convey aspects that \"made the series interesting\" instead of simply \"focusing on morals or the concept of justice\". Toshiki Inoue, the series organizer, agreed with Araki and added that, in anime adaptations, there is a lot of importance in highlighting the aspects that are \"interesting in the original\". He concluded that Light's presence was \"the most compelling\" aspect; therefore the adaptation chronicles Light's \"thoughts and actions as much as possible\". Inoue noted that to best incorporate the manga's plot into the anime, he \"tweak[ed] the chronology a bit\" and incorporated flashbacks that appear after the openings of the episodes; he said this revealed the desired tensions. Araki said that, because in an anime the viewer cannot \"turn back pages\" in the manner that a manga reader can, the anime staff ensured that the show clarified details. Inoue added that the staff did not want to get involved with every single detail, so the staff selected elements to emphasize. Due to the complexity of the original manga, he described the process as \"definitely delicate and a great challenge\". Inoue admitted that he placed more instructions and notes in the script than usual. Araki added that because of the importance of otherwise trivial details, this commentary became crucial to the development of the series.\n\nAraki said that when he discovered the \"Death Note\" anime project, he \"literally begged\" to join the production team; when he joined he insisted that Inoue should write the scripts. Inoue added that, because he enjoyed reading the manga, he wished to use his effort.\n\nThe \"Death Note\" manga series was first serialized in the Japanese manga magazine \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" published by Shueisha on December 1, 2003. The series has since ended in Japan with a total of 108 chapters. Later, the individual chapters were collected into twelve separate \"tankōbon\". In April 2005, \"Death Note\" was licensed for publication in North America by Viz Media, and the first English language volume was released on October 10, 2005. In February 2008, a one-shot special was released. Set two years after the manga's epilogue, it sees the introduction of a new Kira and the reactions of the main characters in response to the copycat's appearance. Several \"Death Note\" yonkoma (four-panel comics) appeared in \"Akamaru Jump\". The yonkoma were written to be humorous. The \"Akamaru Jump\" issues that printed the comics include 2004 Spring, 2004 Summer, 2005 Winter, and 2005 Spring. In addition \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" Gag Special 2005 included some \"Death Note\" yonkoma in a \"Jump\" Heroes Super 4-Panel Competition.\n\nIn addition, a guidebook for the manga was also released on October 13, 2006. It was named \"Death Note 13: How to Read\" and contained data relating to the series, including character profiles of almost every character that is named, creator interviews, behind the scenes info for the series and the pilot chapter that preceded \"Death Note\". It also reprinted all of the yonkoma serialized in \"Akamaru Jump\" and the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" Gag Special 2005. Its first edition could be purchased with a \"Death Note\"-themed diorama which includes five finger puppets inspired by Near's toys. The five finger puppets are Kira, L, Misa, Mello, and Near. In North America, \"13: How to Read\" was released on February 19, 2008. , the manga has been re-released in omnibus format, dubbed \"Black Edition\". On October 4, 2016, all 12 original manga volumes and the February 2008 one-shot were released in a single \"All-in-One Edition\", consisting of 2,400 pages in a single book. The \"All-in-One Edition\" was released in English on September 6, 2017, resulting in the February 2008 one-shot being released in English for the first time.\n\nThe \"Death Note\" anime, directed by Tetsurō Araki and animated by Madhouse, began airing in Japan on October 3, 2006, and finished its run on June 26, 2007, totaling 37 twenty-minute episodes. The series aired on the Nippon Television network \"every Tuesday at 23:34\". The series was co-produced by Madhouse, Nippon Television, Shueisha, D.N. Dream Partners and VAP.\n\nIn North America, the series has been licensed by Viz for residents in the United States to use \"Download-to-Own\" and \"Download-to-Rent\" services while it was still airing in Japan. This move is seen as \"significant because it marks the first time a well known Japanese anime property will be made legally available to domestic audiences for download to own while the title still airs on Japanese television\". The downloadable episodes contain the original Japanese audio track and English subtitles, and is available through IGN's Windows-only Direct2Drive service. DVDs of the series have also been released, containing both an English dubbed audio track, produced by Ocean Productions, and the original Japanese audio track with optional English subtitles. Viz announced at Anime Expo 2007 that the first DVD was officially released on November 20, 2007, in both regular and special editions, and also confirmed at Comic-Con International 2007 that the first 15,000 copies of each DVD contains collectible figures.\n\n\"Death Note\" was slated to make its North American television premiere in Canada, as part of YTV's Bionix block, on September 7, 2007. However, the show was removed from the schedule at the last minute and the Canadian premiere was pushed back to October 26, 2007, at 10:00 p.m. The series premiered in the U.S. on October 20, 2007, at 11:30 p.m. on Adult Swim and ran until January 10, 2010, when its contract expired. The last episode aired on YTV, July 4, 2008, and would later air on Adult Swim two days later. The show was removed from YTV's schedule on July 5, 2008, with its last airing being a rerun of the final episode at 1:30 a.m. ET. Soon after, Bionix became a 2-hour block on Saturday nights. The show also streamed online free on Adult Swim Video, with a new episode available every Saturday afternoon, on the day of its broadcast premiere. On July 26, 2017, Starz announced that they would be offering episodes of the series for their Video on Demand service starting August 1, 2017.\n\nA two-hour animated TV special aired on Nippon Television in Japan on August 31, 2007, at 8:00 p.m. It is a recap which takes place after the series end, where a Shinigami approaches Ryuk in the Shinigami realm in order to learn more about the human world. Instead, Ryuk tells him of all the events leading up to the last story arc, about Light Yagami and his rival L. Originally, this special was advertised as a retelling told from Ryuk's point of view, but it does not give a different point of view from what was originally told. However, it contains updated dialog, as well as a few new scenes.\n\nThe Japanese broadcaster NTV aired the special on August 22, 2008. Like the first special, this new compilation summarized a part of the 2006–2007 anime television series. Specifically, it recounted the final half of the suspenseful supernatural story, including the investigators Near and Mello's confrontations with the vigilante Kira. This version features more updates than the previous one, most notably omission of the mafia plot.\n\nSeveral soundtracks for the series have been released. The music from the anime was composed by Yoshihisa Hirano and Hideki Taniuchi, while the CDs were also published by VAP. The first one was \"Death Note Original Soundtrack\", which was released in Japan on December 21, 2006. It contains music from the series with the first opening and ending themes are sung by the Japanese band Nightmare in the TV size format. \"Death Note Original Soundtrack II\" was first released in Japan on March 21, 2007. It features the new opening and closing themes by Maximum the Hormone in the TV size format. The third CD, \"Death Note Original Soundtrack III\" was released on June 27, 2007. The tracks 1-21 were composed and arranged by Taniuchi, while the tracks 22-28 were composed and arranged by Hirano. The album features one track sung by Aya Hirano, who was also the Japanese voice actress of Misa Amane in the anime series. Also appearing on this soundtrack is the ending theme \"Coda〜Death Note\", which can be heard at the end of the final episode of the anime as the credits are shown.\n\nSeveral soundtracks have also been released for the live action films. \"Sound of Death Note\" is a soundtrack featuring music from the first \"Death Note\" film composed and arranged by Kenji Kawai. It was released on June 17, 2006 by VAP. \"Sound of Death Note the Last name\" is the soundtrack from the second \"Death Note\" film, \"Death Note the Last name\". It was released on November 2, 2006. \"Death Note Tribute\" is a tribute album dedicated to the live action film \"Death Note\". Published by BMG Japan on June 21, 2006 Japan, it contains 15 tracks performed by various artists, such as Shikao Suga, M-Flo, Buck-Tick, and Aya Matsuura. The soundtrack came with a cosplay Death Note notebook. Another tribute album is \"The Songs for Death Note the movie〜the Last name Tribute\" dedicated to the second film. Published by Sony Music Entertainment Japan on December 20, 2006, it contains 14 tracks performed by various artists, such as Orange Range, Abingdon Boys School, High and Mighty Color, Doping Panda, and Galneryus.\n\nA light novel adaptation of the series has been written by Nisio Isin, called \"\". The novel was released by Shueisha on August 1, 2006. It serves as a prequel to the manga series, with Mello narrating the story of L's first encounter with Naomi Misora during the Los Angeles \"BB Serial Murder Case\" mentioned in volume 2 of the manga. Beside Naomi's character, the novel focuses on how L works and one of the criminals L has to chase down. Insight was given into Watari's orphanage and how the whole system of geniuses such as L, Mello, Beyond Birthday, Matt and Near were put to work. Viz released the novel in English on February 19, 2008. The film \"\" was also adapted into a light novel with the same name on December 25, 2007 by \"M\", While the novel is similar to the film, there are many significant changes to the plot (for example, Near is not a Thai boy, but the same Near that appears in the manga). It also reveals more information about L and his past. Viz released it on October 20, 2009.\n\nA \"Death Note\" video game developed and published by Konami for the Nintendo DS, titled , was released on February 15, 2007. \"Kira Game\" is a strategy game where the player takes on the role of Kira or L. These are just titles, as any character can be Kira or L. The player will attempt to deduce who their enemy is (Kira will try to uncover L's identity and vice versa). This will play out in three phases: investigation, where the player will discuss the case and clues with other characters; voting, where each member of the investigation team casts a vote on who they suspect is L or Kira based on the player's performance in the previous phase; L/Kira, where the player can either focus their investigation on one member to see if they are Kira (L part), or force a member off of the team (Kira part). A sequel to the game, , was released in Japan on July 12, 2007. The storyline is based on the second part of the manga, featuring characters such as Mello and Near.\n\nA third game, , was released for the Nintendo DS in Japan on February 7, 2008. The player assumes the role of a rookie FBI agent who awakens in a strange hotel and attempts to escape with the help of L, who provides assistance via an in-game PDA. The story is set before the Kira investigation in the original series.\n\nSeveral characters from \"Death Note\" appear in \"Jump Super Stars\" and \"Jump Ultimate Stars\", a fighting game featuring a plethora of characters from \"Shōnen Jump\" titles. Light, Ryuk, and L appear in \"Jump Super Stars\" as support characters. Misa, Near, and Mello are added as support characters in \"Jump Ultimate Stars\" as well.\n\nThe upcoming video game \"Jump Force\" will feature Light and Ryuk as unplayable characters, playing a key role in the game's story mode.\n\n\"Death Note\" was adapted into a series of live action films in 2006. The first two films were directed by Shusuke Kaneko and the third was directed by Hideo Nakata and produced by Nippon Television, CG production of all three films were done by Digital Frontier and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures Japan. The first film, simply titled \"Death Note\", premiered in Japan on June 17, 2006 and topped the Japanese box office for two weeks, pushing \"The Da Vinci Code\" into second place. The first film briefly played in certain North American theaters on May 20–21, 2008 The film was broadcast in Canadian theaters for one night only on September 15, 2008. The DVD was released on September 16, 2008, one day after the Canadian showing. The sequel, \"\", premiered in Japan on November 3, 2006. It was featured in U.S. theaters in October 2008. A spin-off from the films named \"\" was released in Japan on February 9, 2008. It is focused on the final 23 days of L's life, as he solves one final case involving a bio-terrorist group. Two dubbed versions of the film were shown in the United States on April 29 and 30, 2009.\n\nIn August 2016, a three-part miniseries entitled \"\" was announced as a part of the \"Death Note\" live action film series and aired in September. It bridges the 10-year gap between the previous films and the then-upcoming 2016 film.\n\nA was released in 2016 and featured a cyber-terrorism setting with the inclusion of six Death Notes brought into the human world.\n\nAn American adaptation was released on Netflix on August 25, 2017. The film was directed by Adam Wingard and was written by Charles Parlapanides, Vlas Parlapanides, and Jeremy Slater. It starred Nat Wolff, Lakeith Stanfield, Margaret Qualley, Shea Whigham, Paul Nakauchi, Jason Liles, and Willem Dafoe.\n\nIn April 2015, it was announced that a live action television series based on \"Death Note\" manga would begin airing from July 2015 on NTV. Masataka Kubota stars as Light Yagami and Kento Yamazaki as L in the series.\n\nIn 2015, a musical adaptation of the manga called \"Death Note: The Musical\" ran in both Japan and South Korea. It was originally composed in English by Broadway composer Frank Wildhorn, with lyrics by Jack Murphy and book by Ivan Menchell, though no English-language production has been announced . The original Japanese production, produced by Japanese talent agency HoriPro, ran from April 6, 2015 to April 29, 2015 and stars Kenji Urai and Hayato Kakizawa double-cast as Light Yagami, and Teppei Koike as L. A Korean production of the same musical ran from June 11 to August 11, 2015 in South Korea, starring musical actor Hong Kwang-ho and JYJ member and musical actor Kim Junsu.\n\n\"Death Note\" has received acclaim from both critics and audiences, with praise aimed at the complex and cerebral storyline, mature themes and plot and character development, especially that of the two main protagonists. , \"Death Note\"s twelve volumes had over 30 million copies in circulation. The series won the 2008 Eagle Award for Favourite Manga as voted by UK fans. According to a survey conducted in 2007 by the Ministry of culture of Japan, occupies the 10th place among the best manga of all time. It also received several nominations such as Best Manga at the 2006 American Anime Awards, the 2007 Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize, an Official Selection at Angoulême International Comics Festival 2008, and Obata was nominated for Best Penciller/Inker at the 2008 Eisner Awards. In 2007, the first three volumes of \"Death Note\" were on the American Library Association's 2007 Great Graphic Novels for Teens Top Ten list. On ICv2's \"Top 10 Shonen Properties Q2 2009\", \"Death Note\" was the third best manga property from North America. Douglas Wolk of \"Salon\" said that a rumor circulated stating that the creators intended to create \"Death Note\" to last half as long as its actual run and Ohba and Obata had been persuaded to lengthen the storyline when \"Death Note\"'s popularity increased, noting that the rumor \"makes sense, since about halfway through the series, there's a point that seems like a natural ending\". In addition, he said that fans wrote \"thousands\" of \"Death Note\" fan fiction stories and posted them on the internet. In 2006, Japanese fans pointed out the similarities between \"Death Note\" and the 1973 one-shot by Shigeru Mizuki. Comipress reported that the only difference between the story and \"Death Note\" is that there are no Shinigamis.\n\nAnime News Network (ANN) writer Zac Bertschy called \"Death Note\" a \"surprisingly gripping and original suspense tale that raises a handful of interesting questions about morality\". He noted that the difference between the series and other manga from the same demographic was very big due to the murders the main character commits as well as how he hides his identity of Kira. Although Bertschy mentioned some \"shōnen\" manga readers will be surprised with the dark themes of \"Death Note\", he praised the series for its \"great art, great story, [and] compelling characters\". Julie Rosato from Mania Entertainment found the story to be very entertaining, having liked Light's development in the story and L's introduction as well as how the latter starts suspecting the former's identity. Additionally, she praised the story as it is \"building a climax\" with each detail introduced in the first chapter, making the reader look forward to upcoming chapters. Briana Lawrence from ANN stated that what makes \"Death Note\" so interesting is that there is no villain, \"instead it had two opposing sides that both believe in the same thing: justice\". She felt that while the series' second half was not as good, with Light seeming less intelligent and once vital characters fading into the background, the ending brings back what the fans loved about the first volume and the supporting cast are \"given a chance to shine\". However, she did not like how the epilogue made no mention of what happens with Misa Amane and how Near and Mello was still treated like parts of L. Jacob Hope Chapman from ANN praised Teru Mikami's role as bloody and flashy as ever better than that of Near, Mello, and Misa. Jolyon Baraka Thomas, in a \"Japanese Journal of Religious Studies\" article, describes the manga as having a \"somber narrative\" with a \"dark cast\". Obata's art is \"[rendered] in stark strokes characterized---fittingly---by a complex interplay of light and shadow\".\n\nThe \"Death Note\" anime was one of the series to win Best TV Anime at the 2007 Tokyo International Anime Fair. The anime was commended with Tom S. Pepirium of IGN saying that \"Death Note\"s \"heavy serialized nature\" is what \"makes the show so engaging and discussion worthy\". Pepirium, saying that translating \"Death Note\" is \"no small task\", stated that Stephen Hedley created an English dub with \"nothing clunky\". He added that Karl Willems, director of the dub, assembled a \"stunning voice cast of professionals\" with a \"solid tone minus some of the cheesy yelling and screaming of other dubs\". On the NPR show \"Fresh Air\", John Powers said that \"Death Note\" is \"at least as addictive as a show like \"Lost\"\". It was also listed as the 51st best animated show in IGN's Top 100 Animated Series. \"Hyper\" wrote: \n\nA.E. Sparrow of IGN reviewed the novel \"Another Note\" and gave it a 9.5 out of 10. Sparrow said that the author understood \"what made these characters click so well\" and \"captures everything that made the manga the compelling read that it is\". Sparrow said that fans of \"Death Note\" who read \"Another Note\" will \"find a welcome home\" in Nisio Isin's work that \"adds a few more fun layers\" to the \"Death Note\" franchise. The novelization \"L: Change the World\" became the second top-selling light novel in Japan during 2008.\n\nThe series' release outside Japan was met with a wave of copycat crimes. According to \"Wired\" magazine, \"Death Note\" \"[turned] Japan's most-popular print medium into an internationally controversial topic that has parents wondering whether they should prohibit their kids from reading manga entirely\". Live-action director Shusuke Kaneko commented in response, \"If preventing them from seeing this movie is going to make kids better, then why not prevent them from watching all bad news?\".\n\nEarly in 2005, school officials in Shenyang, the capital of Liaoning (People's Republic of China), banned \"Death Note\". The immediate cause was that students had been altering notebooks to resemble Death Notes and then writing the names of acquaintances, enemies, and teachers in the books. The ban was designed to protect the \"physical and mental health\" of students from horror material that \"misleads innocent children and distorts their mind and spirit\". Jonathan Clements has suggested that the Chinese authorities acted partly against \"superstition\", but also against illegal, pirate publishers of \"Death Note\". The ban has been extended to other Chinese cities including Beijing, Shanghai and Lanzhou in Gansu Province. Legally published Chinese-language versions of \"Death Note\" are published in Hong Kong. On June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed \"Death Note\" among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.\n\nIn 2007, the education bureau in Pingtung County, Taiwan asked teachers to heed any negative influence on elementary school students reading the manga.\n\nThe Albuquerque Public Schools in New Mexico, U.S. held a hearing in May 2010 to ban the \"Death Note\" manga from their district's schools; it was unanimously voted down.\n\nAfter volumes of \"Death Note\" were found at the February 2013 suicide of a 15-year-old girl in Yekaterinburg, Russia, a local parents' group began campaigning to regulate all media based on the series, saying that it had an adverse effect on the minds of children. In March 2014, investigators concluded that the manga did not cause the girl to commit suicide.\n\nThere have been various copycat crimes around the world which were based on \"Death Note\". On September 28, 2007, two notes written with Latin characters stating , were found near the partial remains of a Caucasian male in Belgium. The case has been called the \"Mangamoord\" (Dutch for \"Manga Murder\") in Belgian media. It was not until 2010 that four people were arrested in connection to the murder.\n\nA senior at the Franklin Military Academy in Richmond, Virginia, United States was suspended in 2007 after being caught possessing a replica \"Death Note\" notebook with the names of fellow students. The school's principal wrote a letter to the student's parents linking to an unofficial website where visitors can write names and circumstances of death for people they want to die.\n\nIn South Carolina in March 2008, school officials seized a \"Death Note\" notebook from a Hartsville Middle School student. District officials linked the notebook to the anime/manga. The notebook listed seven students' names. The school planned a disciplinary hearing and contacted the seven students' parents. In Gadsden, Alabama in April 2008, two sixth-grade boys were arrested for possession of a \"Death Note\" that listed names of several staff members and fellow students. According to Etowah County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Lanny Handy, the notebook was found the previous afternoon by a staffer. The students were suspended from the county's schools, pending a juvenile court hearing. The students, their parents, and school officials had met with Handy and a junior probation officer. In Gig Harbor, Washington, one middle school student was expelled and three were suspended on May 14, 2008 for having 50 names in their own \"Death Note\" book, including President George W. Bush.\n\nIt was reported in September 2009, that a Year Eight boy in Sydney, Australia, created a \"Death Note\" that along with names contained a \"battle plan\" detailing where bombs could be placed inside his school. In December 2009, two students at an elementary school in Oklahoma were disciplined for a \"Death Note\" with the names and descriptions of deaths of two girls that had angered them. A Michigan middle school student was suspended indefinitely in March 2010 for a \"Death Note\". In May 2010, a middle school student in Avonworth School District in Pennsylvania was suspended for a \"Death Note\" with names of fellow students and pop singer Justin Bieber. In February 2015, a fifth-grade student of an elementary school near Pittsburgh was suspended for owning a \"Death Note\" and writing other students' names in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2772574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772574", "title": "Drug education", "text": "Drug education\n\nDrug education is the planned provision of information, resources, and skills relevant to living in a world where psychoactive substances are widely available and commonly used for a variety of both medical and non-medical purposes, some of which may lead to harms such as overdose, injury, infectious disease (such as HIV or hepatitis C), or addiction.\n\nPlanning includes developing strategies for helping children and young people engage with relevant drug-related issues during opportunistic and brief contacts with them as well as during more structured sessions. Drug education enables children, youth and adults to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes to appreciate the benefits of living healthily (which may or may not include the use of psychoactive substances), promote responsibility towards the use of drugs and relate these to their own actions and those of others, both now and in their future lives. It also provides opportunities for people to reflect on their own and others' attitudes to various psychoactive substances, their use and the people who use them.\n\nDrug education can be given in numerous forms, some more effective than others. Examples include advertising and awareness raising campaigns such as the UK Government’s FRANK campaign or the US \"media campaign\". In addition there are school based drug education programs like DARE or that currently being evaluated by the UK Blueprint Programme. In efforts to prevent problematic substance use, drug education may perpetuate myths and stereotypes about psychoactive substances and people who use them.\n\nDrug education can also take less explicit forms; an example of this is the Positive Futures Programme, funded by the UK government as part of its drug strategy. This programme uses sport and the arts as catalysts to engage young people on their own turf, putting them in contact with positive role models (coaches/trained youth workers). After building a trusting relationship with a young person, these role models can gradually change attitudes towards drug use and steer the young person back into education, training and employment. This approach reaches young people who have dropped out of mainstream education. It also has additional benefits for the community in reduced crime and anti-social behaviour.\n\nSchool-based drug education began with the anti-alcohol \"temperance education\" programmes of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union in the United States and Canada in the late 19th century. In many respects, the WCTU's progressive education agenda set the template for much of what has been done since in the name of drug education.\n\nPast research into drug education has indicated that to be effective it must involve engaging, interactive learning strategies that stimulate higher-order thinking, promote learning and be transferable to real life circumstances. Current challenges from this approach exist in adopting evidence-based school drug education programmes. Currently, in the majority of countries where preventive drug education programs and courses exist, they are established and funded by the Government. These education programs aim to educate adolescents about illicit drug use in an effort to prevent illegal drug use while highlighting the dangers of problematic substance use.\n\nThe Australian Government has implemented a range of drug education programs through the National Drug Education Strategy (NDES) by providing schools with effective drug education programmes. The program aims to manage drug related issues and incidents within schools .\n\nOn 6 December 2015 the Australian Government Department of Health launched the Positive Choices portal as part of its response to the findings from the National Ice Taskforce report. Positive Choices is an online portal that facilitates access to interactive evidence-based drug education resources and prevention programs for school communities. Positive Choices builds on existing drug education resources developed by researchers at the National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (NDARC) such as the Climate Schools programs that have been proven to reduce alcohol and drug related harms and increase student well-being.\n\nThe Australian Department of Health and Aging identified that analgesics (90%), alcohol (80-90%) and tobacco (30-60%) were the most widely utilised substances among adolescents. In addition to this, cannabis was another commonly used illicit substance that accounted for 33% usage among adolescents aged 14–17 years.\n\nIn addition to government funded programs, a number of not-for-profit organisations (such as Life Education Australia also provide drug education programs to adolescents. These preventative programs aim to deliver a progressive approach that will motivate and encourage young people to make positive decisions in life. Emphasis within these programs is also placed in focusing on deterring peer pressure as a means of empowering adolescents and promoting autonomy. This approach reaches 750,000 primary and secondary students in Australia each year.\n\nD.A.R.E stands for Drug Abuse Resistance Education. In the United States, D.A.R.E is implemented in elementary school classrooms, 5th grade to educate students on drugs effects and temptations they may encounter. The program implemented in public and private school systems to prepare 5th graders for middle school, as well as all further education. Although D.A.R.E is implemented to prevent students from doing drugs in the future, there is little evidence to suggest it actually prevents students from doing drugs. In the article, “Long-Term Impact of Drug Abuse Resistance Education” by Dukes and Stein, a chi-squared test was performed to see if there was a significant difference between high school students that received D.A.R.E training and those who did not receive D.A.R.E and its relation to drug use. The study found that there is no significant difference between the drug use of students that received D.A.R.E and students that did not. One of the main reasons the authors mentioned D.A.R.E had little correlation with Drug use is that there are other external causes that only affect some students, which can lead them into the direction of drug use. Additionally, the time that students received D.A.R.E (5th grade), and the time that the students encounter drugs may be many years after, so students may have little remembrance of the program. However, the United States schools continue to implement the program in classrooms because the police officers that come into classrooms can serve as community role models to students, and all students are different so it may steer them away from drugs in the future.\nSteroid use is a common form of drug use in high schools across the United States. Many students, specifically males, use steroids to increase their performance in athletic events. Many professional athletes, for example professional cyclist, Lance Armstrong, and former professional MLB player, Alex Rodriguez both were nationally recognized as steroid users. Additionally in an article in the \"Journal of Molecular & Cellular Endocrinology,\" it states that in a survey of 212 Canadian national track athletes, over 10% of them would take an illegal drug if it was undetectable, if it could help them win an Olympic gold medal. Many adolescents idolize athletes, so when they find out there is a way to enhance their performance, and that elite athletes are using them, steroids may be used by students. \n\nAn article in the \"Journal of Child & Adolescent Substance Abuse\" ran a study on two southern California high schools in middle class suburbs, and the high school students use of Anabolic Androgenic Steroids. It surveyed students on if they use steroids, knew the side effects of steroids, and additionally their use of other prevalent drugs. The article specifically found that male students that were athletes were more likely to use steroids than students that are female or non- athlete students in general. Most students that participated in steroids played the sports, football or soccer, and were most likely to do steroids if they participated in both sports. Professional sports, influence young athletes, and when pro- athletes participate in drugs, it can lead young adults to use drugs without realizing the side effects and consequences that come along with drug use.\n\nAlso, a study in the \"journal of Drugs: Education, Prevention & Policy\" discusses alcohol and drug prevention programs in Australia for students in grades 8 and 9. It goes into detail about the student's between 13 and 15 years old, to see if alcohol and drug prevention programs have an actual effect on preventing substance abuse. The study comes to conclusion that when the students went through a drug and alcohol prevention program, they were less likely to develop a drug or alcohol problem. \n\nThe University of North Carolina Greensboro has researched the drug prevention program, All Stars, Sr.. The program is developing education through technology (videos), so that health education programs could reach schools in rural communities. The technology programs would provide drug/ health education in general with qualified instructors, in areas that do not have programs. \n\nRecent studies have identified that a gap between the theory of education programmes and the implementation exists. This is regards to the collaborative learning approach and difficulties with teachers adopting these interactive drug education programmes. The practical implications of these findings are that professional training and support are required to increase the effectiveness of teaching staff, and the uniform implementation of drug curriculum. Additional drug education research in the future should acknowledge the complexities of implementing these programmes in a school environment. Furthermore, additional support for teachers, counselors, school administrators and other education professionals should be integrated as a means of being realistic about what constitutes effective drug education and maintaining a high quality standard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221158", "title": "Eight Immortals from Sichuan", "text": "Eight Immortals from Sichuan\n\nEight Immortals from Sichuan () are eight Sichuanese who supposedly became \"xian\" (\"immortals; transcendents; fairies\"). The term is first used by Qiao Xiu (譙秀 qiáo xiù) in \"Record of Shu\" (《蜀紀》 shǔ zì) written in Jin Dynasty.\n\nThey are:\n\n"}
{"id": "47773945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47773945", "title": "Electronic Book Review", "text": "Electronic Book Review\n\nElectronic Book Review (\"ebr\") is a peer-reviewed scholarly journal with emphasis on the digital. Founded in 1995 by Joseph Tabbi and Mark Amerika, the journal was one of the first to devote a lasting web presence to the discussion of literature, theory, criticism, and the arts. \n\nSince its inception, \"ebr\" has highlighted works characterized by innovation, resistance to genre, and creative use of emerging (electronic and web-specific) media. In 1996, \"Details\" referred to the journal as \"a new mecca for cutting-edge fiction and criticism.\" Initially managed in DIY fashion by contributing writers and programmers, by 1997 Anne Burdick joined the staff as design director, later bringing on Ewan Branda for the redesign. Writing in \"Deep Sites: Intelligent Innovation in Contemporary Web Design\", Max Bruinsma characterizes \"ebr\" as \"an interesting web of critical debates on electronic textuality, cyberculture, and the value of digital design literacy for scholarship and critical writing on the web.\" Its emphasis on the materiality of text extended to early experiments with form on the site itself, including \"glosses,\" in which comments by a guest curator appear embedded in existing articles, and the \"weave\" function, which allowed for fluid rearrangement of content \"like a virtual loom that weaves different patterns each time you choose a different perspective.\"\n\n\"ebr\" has received institutional support or affiliation from University of Illinois at Chicago, The Center for Literary Computing at West Virginia University, University of Colorado at Boulder, the Department of English, Art Center College of Design at Pasadena, University of Stavanger, the Electronic Literature Organization, and the Consortium on Electronic Literature (CELL). The journal has also enjoyed a long association with distributed literary networks such as Alt-X and the Open Humanities Press, the latter \"an international, scholar-led open access publishing collective whose mission is to make leading works of contemporary critical thought available worldwide.\" \"ebr\" is currently edited by Joseph Tabbi, recipient of the ELO/N. Katherine Hayles Award in 2018 for Critical Writing in the field of Electronic Literature.\n\nIn conjunction with a trilogy of essay collections from MIT Press, \"ebr\" published a thread reproducing a portion of the essays while also expanding, critiquing, and responding to the print content. The \"First Person\" thread exists as an accompaniment to the collections \"First Person: New Media as Story, Performance, and Game\", \"Second Person: Role-Playing and Story in Games and Playable Media\", and \"Third Person: Authoring and Exploring Vast Narratives\" by Pat Harrigan and Noah Wardrip-Fruin.\n\nNotable contributors include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21776675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21776675", "title": "Eshkiolmes Petroglyphs", "text": "Eshkiolmes Petroglyphs\n\nThe Petroglyphs of Eshkiolmes are located throughout the Eshkiolmes mountain range in the Almaty region of Kazakhstan. The area is being considered for inscription on the World Heritage list of sites who have \"outstanding universal value\" to the world.\n\nThe petroglyphs are the most outstanding features of this area that also includes ancient Late Bronze to Middle Age settlements and burials. There exist over 4000 extant well-preserved petroglyphs in this area, that employ a wide range of techniques and content. The rock art often depicts even the most minute detail of ancient life, including the depiction of clothes and tools.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on September 24, 1998 in the Mixed (Cultural + Natural) category.\n\n"}
{"id": "569036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=569036", "title": "Fabada asturiana", "text": "Fabada asturiana\n\nFabada asturiana, often simply known as fabada, is a rich Spanish bean stew, originally from and most commonly found in the autonomous community of Principality of Asturias, but widely available throughout the whole of Spain and in Spanish restaurants worldwide. Canned fabada is sold in most supermarkets across the country.\n\nFabada is a hot and heavy dish and for that reason is most commonly eaten during winter and at the largest meal of the day, lunch. It is usually served as a starter, but may also be the main course of the meal. It is typically served with Asturian cider or a red wine.\n\nFabada is made with dried large white beans (\"fabes de la Granja\", soaked overnight before use), shoulder of pork (\"lacón\") or bacon (\"tocino\"), black pudding (\"morcilla\"), chorizo, and often saffron (\"azafrán\"). Some recipes also call for longaniza.\n\nThe Spanish olla podrida and southern French cassoulet are both similar to fabada asturiana. \n\n"}
{"id": "2985337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2985337", "title": "Fictional resistance movements and groups", "text": "Fictional resistance movements and groups\n\nFictional resistance movements and groups commonly appear in dystopian fiction, opposing the tyranny which dominates the setting.\n\nIn Chuck Palahniuk's \"Fight Club\", the tyranny is the soul-destroying life of modern western society. The protagonist rebels against this by organising atavistic bare-knuckle fights and then by leading \"Project Mayhem\" to destroy civilization. This story developed themes of alienation and anti-consumerism seen in earlier works such as \"Rebel without a Cause\" and \"The Prisoner\" with the epic, millennial quality of other contemporary works such as \"The Matrix\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1590716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590716", "title": "Grub Street", "text": "Grub Street\n\nUntil the early 19th century, Grub Street was a street close to London's impoverished Moorfields district that ran from Fore Street east of St Giles-without-Cripplegate north to Chiswell Street. Famous for its concentration of impoverished \"hack writers\", aspiring poets, and low-end publishers and booksellers, Grub Street existed on the margins of London's journalistic and literary scene. It was pierced along its length with narrow entrances to alleys and courts, many of which retained the names of early signboards. Its bohemian society was set amidst the impoverished neighbourhood's low-rent dosshouses, brothels and coffeehouses.\n\nAccording to Samuel Johnson's \"Dictionary\", the term was \"originally the name of a street... much inhabited by writers of small histories, dictionaries, and temporary poems, whence any mean production is called grubstreet\". Johnson himself had lived and worked on Grub Street early in his career. The contemporary image of Grub Street was popularised by Alexander Pope in his \"Dunciad\".\n\nThe street was later renamed Milton Street, which was partly swallowed up by the Barbican Estate development, but still survives in part. The street name no longer exists, but Grub Street has since become a pejorative term for impoverished hack writers and writings of low literary value.\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary the verb grub translates as \"To dig superficially; to break up the surface of (the ground); to clear (ground) of roots and stumps.\" The earliest use of the word is in 1300, \"Theif hus brecand, or gruband grund\", and in 1572 \"Ze suld your ground grube with simplicitie\". Grub Street appears to have taken its name from a refuse ditch that ran alongside (grub), and variations on the name include Grobstrat (1217–1243), Grobbestrate (1277–1278), Grubbestrate (1281), Grubbestrete (1298), Grubbelane (1336), Grubstrete, and Crobbestrate. Grub is also a derogatory noun applied to 'a person of mean abilities, a literary hack; in recent use, a person of slovenly attire and unpleasant manners.'\n\nGrub Street was in Cripplegate ward, in the parish of St Giles-without-Cripplegate (Cripplegate ward was bisected by the city walls, and therefore was both 'within' and 'without'). Much of the area was originally extensive marshlands from the Fleet Ditch, to Bishopsgate, contiguous with Moorfields to the east. The St Alphage Churchwardens' Accounts of 1267 mention a stream running from the nearby marsh, through Grub Street, and under the city walls into the Walbrook river, which may have provided the local population with drinking water, however the marshes were drained in 1527.\n\nOne of Grub Street's early residents was the notable recluse Henry Welby, the owner of the estate of Goxhill in Lincolnshire. In 1592 his half-brother attempted to shoot him with a pistol. Shocked, he took a house on Grub Street and remained there, in near-total seclusion, for the rest of his life. He died in 1636 and was buried at St Giles in Cripplegate. The virginalist Giles Farnaby also lived in Grub Street from 1634 until his death in 1640.\n\nAn early use of the land surrounding Grub Street was archery. In \"Records of St. Giles' Cripplegate\" (1883), the author describes an order made by Henry VII to convert Finsbury Fields from gardens, to fields for archery practice, however in Elizabethan times archery became unfashionable, and Grub Street is described as largely deserted, \"except for low gambling houses and bowling-alleys—or, as we should call them, skittle-grounds.\" John Stow also referred to Grubstreete in \"A Survey of London Volume II\" (1603) as \"It was convenient for bowyers, since it lay near the Archery-butts in Finsbury Fields\", and in 1651 the poet Thomas Randoph wrote \"Her eyes are Cupid's Grub-Street: the blind archer, Makes his love-arrows there.\" \"The little London directory of 1677\" lists six merchants living in 'Grubſreet', and Costermongers also plied their trade—a Mr Horton, who died in September 1773, earned a fortune of £2,000 by hiring wheelbarrows out. Land was cheap and occupied mostly by the poor, and the area was renowned for the presence of Ague and the Black Death; in the 1660s the Great Plague of London killed nearly eight thousand of the parish's inhabitants.\n\nThe population of St Giles in 1801 has been estimated at about 25,000 people, but by the end of the 19th century this was dropping steadily. In the 18th century Cripplegate was well known as an area haunted by insalubrious folk, and by the mid-19th century crime was rife. Methods of dealing with criminals were severe—thieves and murderers were \"left dangling in their chains on Moorfields.\" The use of gibbets was common, and four 'cages' were maintained by the parish, for use as a Lying-in hospital, housing the poor, and 'idle imposters'. One such cage stood amidst the poor quality housing stock of Grub Street; destitution was viewed as a crime against society, and was punishable by whipping, and also by having a hole cut in the gristle of the right ear.\n\nWell before the influx of writers in the 18th century, Grub street was therefore in an economically deprived area. John Garfield's \"Wandring Whore issue V\" (1660) lists several 'Crafty Bawds' operating from the Three Sugar-Loaves, and also mentions a Mrs Wroth as a 'common whore'.\n\nThe earliest literary reference to Grub Street appears in 1630, by the English poet, John Taylor. \"When strait I might descry, The Quintescence of Grubstreet, well distild Through Cripplegate in a contagious Map\". The local population was known for its nonconformist views; its Presbyterian preacher Samuel Annesley had been replaced in 1662 by an Anglican. Famous 16th-century Puritans included John Foxe, who may have authored his Book of Martyrs in the area, the historian John Speed, the Protestant printer and poet Robert Crowley. The Protestant John Milton also lived near Grub Street.\n\nIn 1403 the City of London Corporation approved the formation of a Guild of stationers. Stationers were either booksellers, illuminators, or bookbinders. Printing gradually displaced manuscript production, and by the time that the Guild received a royal charter of incorporation on 4 May 1557, becoming the Stationers' Company, it was in effect a Printers' Guild. In 1559, it became the 47th livery company.\n\nThe Stationers' Company had considerable powers of search and seizure, backed by the state (which supplied the force and authority to guarantee copyright). This monopoly continued until 1641 when, inflamed by the treatment of religious dissenters such as John Lilburne and William Prynne, the Long Parliament abolished the Star Chamber (a court which controlled the press) with the Habeas Corpus Act 1640. This led to the de facto cessation of state censorship of the press. Although in 1641 token punishments were given to those responsible for unlicensed and hostile pamphlets published around London—including Grub Street—Puritan and radical pamphlets continued to be distributed by an informal network of street hawkers, and dissenters from within the Stationers' Company. Tabloid journalism became rife; the unstable political climate resulted in the publication from Grub Street of anti-Caroline literature, along with blatant lies and anti-Catholic stories regarding the Irish Rebellion of 1641; stories that were advantageous to the parliamentary leadership. Following the King's failed attempt to arrest several members of the Commons, Grub Street printer Bernard Alsop became personally involved in the publication of false pamphlets, including a fake letter from the Queen that resulted in John Bond being pilloried. Alsop and colleague Thomas Fawcett were sent to Fleet Prison for several months.\n\nThroughout the English Civil War therefore, publishers and writers remained answerable to the law. State control of the press was tightened in the Licensing Order of 1643, but although the new regime was arguably as restrictive as the monopoly that the Stationers' Company once enjoyed, parliament was unable to control the number of renegade presses that flourished during the Interregnum. The freedoms ensured by the Bill of Rights 1689 led indirectly to the refusal in 1695 of the Parliament of England to renew the Licensing of the Press Act 1662, a law which required all printing presses to be licensed by Parliament. This lapse led to a freer press, and a rise in the volume of printed matter. Jonathan Swift wrote to a friend in New York, \"I could send you a great deal of news from the \"Republica Grubstreetaria\", which was never in greater altitude.\"\n\nPublishing houses proliferated in Grub Street, and this, combined with the number of local garrets, meant that the area was an ideal home for hack writers. In \"The Preface\", when describing the harsh conditions a writer suffered, Tom Brown's self-parody referred to being \"Block'd up in a Garret\". Such contemporary views of the writer, in his inexpensive Ivory Tower high above the noise of the city, were immortalised by William Hogarth in his 1736 illustration The Distrest Poet. The street name became a synonym for a hack writer; in a literary context, 'hack' is derived from Hackney—a person whose services may be for hire, especially a literary drudge. In this framework, hack was popularised by authors such as Andrew Marvell, Oliver Goldsmith, John Wolcot, and Anthony Trollope. Ned Ward's late 17th-century description reinforces a common view of Grub Street authors, as little more than prostitutes:\n\nOne such author was Samuel Boyse. Contemporary accounts picture him as a dishonest and disreputable rogue, paid for each individual line of prose as a Jack of all trades, master of none. He apparently lived in squalor, often drunk, and on one occasion after pawning his shirt, he fashioned a replacement out of paper. To be a called a 'Grub Street author' was therefore often viewed as an insult, however Grub Street hack James Ralph defended the trade of the journalist, contrasting it with the supposed hypocrisy of more esteemed professions:\n\nIn response to the newly increased demand for reading matter in the Augustan period, Grub Street became a popular source of periodical literature. One publication to take advantage of the reduction of state control was \"A Perfect Diurnall\" (despite its title, a weekly publication). However it quickly found its name copied by unscrupulous Grub Street publishers, so obviously that the newspaper was forced to issue a warning to its readers. Toward the end of the 17th century authors such as John Dunton worked on a range of periodicals, including \"Pegasus\" (1696), and \"The Night Walker: or, Evening Rambles in search after lewd Women\" (1696–1697). Dunton pioneered the advice column in \"Athenian Mercury\" (1690–1697). The satirical writer and publican Ned Ward published \"The London Spy\" (1698–1700) in monthly instalments, for over a year and a half. It was conceived as a guide to the sights of the city, but as a periodical also contained details on taverns, coffee-houses, tobacco shops, and bagnios.\nOther publications included the Whig \"Observator\" (1702–1712), and the Tory \"Rehearsal\" (1704–1709), both superseded by Daniel Defoe's \"Weekly Review\" (1704–1713), and Jonathan Swift's \"Examiner\" (1710–1714). English newspapers were often politically sponsored, and Grub Street was host to several such publications; between 1731 and 1741 Robert Walpole's ministry was reported to have spent about £50,077 (about £ today) nationally of Treasury funds on bribes to such newspapers. Allegiances changed often, with some authors changing their political stance on receipt of bribes from secret service funds. Such changes helped maintain the level of disdain with which the establishment viewed journalists and their trade, an attitude often reinforced by the abuse publications would print about their rivals. Titles such as \"Common Sense\", \"Daily Post\", and the \"Jacobite's Journal\" (1747–1748) were often guilty of this practice, and in May 1756 an anonymous author described journalists as \"dastardly mongrel insects, scribbling incendiaries, starveling savages, human shaped tygers, senseless yelping curs...\" In describing his profession, Samuel Johnson, a Grub Street man himself, said \"A news-writer is a man without virtue who writes lies at home for his own profit. To these compositions is required neither genius nor knowledge, neither industry nor sprightliness, but contempt of shame and indifference to truth are absolutely necessary.\"\n\nIn 1711 Queen Anne gave royal assent to the 1712 Stamp Act, which imposed new taxes on newspapers. The Queen addressed the House of Commons: \"Her majesty finds it necessary to observe, how great license is taken in publishing false and scandalous libels, such as are a reproach to any Government. This evil seems to be grown too strong for the laws now in force. It is therefore recommended to you to find a remedy equal to the mischief.\" The passage of the Act was partly an attempt to silence Whig pamphleteers and dissenters, who had been critical of the then Tory government. Every copy of a news-carrying publication printed on a half-sheet of paper became liable to a duty of a halfpenny, and if printed on a full sheet, a penny. A duty of a shilling was placed on advertisements. Pamphlets were charged a flate rate of two shillings per sheet for each edition, and were obliged to include the name and address of the printer. The introduction of the Act caused protests from publishers and authors alike, including Daniel Defoe, and Jonathan Swift, who in support of the Whig press wrote:\n\nAlthough the Act had the unfortunate side-effect of closing down several newspapers, publishers used a weakness in the legislation which meant that newspapers of six pages (a half-sheet \"and\" a whole sheet) were only charged at the flat pamphlet rate of two shillings per sheet (regardless of the number of copies printed). Many publications thus expanded to six pages, filled the extra space with extraneous matter, and raised their prices to absorb the tax. Newspapers also used the extra space to introduce serials, hoping to hook readers into buying the next instalment. The periodical nature of the Newspaper allowed writers to develop their arguments over successive weeks, and the newspaper began to overtake the pamphlet as the primary medium for political news and comment.\n\nBy the 1720s 'Grub Street' had grown from a simple street name to a term for all manner of low-level publishing. The popularity of Nathaniel Mist's \"Weekly Journal\" gave rise to a plethora of new publications, including the \"Universal Spectator\" (1728), the Anglican \"Weekly Miscellany\" (1732), the \"Old Whig\" (1735), \"Common Sense\" (1737), and the \"Westminster Journal\". Such publications could be strident in their criticism of government ministers—\"Common Sense\" in 1737 compared Walpole to the infamous outlaw Dick Turpin:\n\nIn response, a 1737 edition of the \"Craftsman\" proposed a tax on urine, and ten years later the \"Westminster Journal\", in a critique of proposed new taxes on food, servants, and malt, proposed a tax on human excrement.\n\nNot all publications were based entirely on politics however. The \"Grub Street Journal\" was better known in literary circles for its combative nature, and has been compared to the modern-day \"Private Eye\". Despite its name, it was printed on nearby Warwick Lane. It began in 1730 as a literary journal and became known for its bellicose writings on individual authors. It is considered by some to have been a vehicle for Alexander Pope's attacks on his enemies in Grub Street, but although he contributed to early issues the full extent of his involvement is unknown. Once his interest in the publication waned \"The Journal\" began to generalise, satirising medicine, theology, theatre, justice, and other social issues. It often contained contradictory accounts of events reported by the previous week's newspapers, its writers inserting sarcastic remarks on the inaccuracies printed by their rivals. It ran until 1737 when it became the \"Literary Courier of Grub-street\", which lingered for a further six months before vanishing altogether.\nNewspapers and their authors were not yet completely free from state control. In 1763 John Wilkes was charged with seditious libel for his attacks on a speech by George III, in issue 45 of \"The North Briton\". The King felt personally insulted and general warrants were issued for the arrest of Wilkes and the newspaper's publishers. He was arrested, convicted of libel, fined, and imprisoned. During their search for Wilkes, the king's messengers had visited the home of a Grub Street printer named John Entick. Entick had printed several copies of \"The North Briton\", but not number 45. The messengers spent four hours searching his home, and eventually carried away more than two hundred unrelated charts and pamphlets. Wilkes had filed for damages against the Under Secretary of State Robert Woods and won his case, and two years later Entick pursued the chief messenger Nicholas Carrington in similar fashion—and was awarded £2,000 in compensation. Carrington appealed, but was ultimately unsuccessful; Chief Justice Camden upheld the verdict with a landmark judgement that established the limits of executive power in English law, that an officer of the state could only act lawfully in a manner prescribed by statute or common law. The judgement also formed part of the background to the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1716 the bookseller and publisher Edmund Curll acquired a manuscript that belonged to Alexander Pope. Curll advertised the work as part of a forthcoming volume of poetry, and was soon contacted by Pope who warned him not to publish the poems. Curll ignored him and published Pope's work under the title \"Court Poems\". A meeting between the two was arranged, at which Pope poisoned Curll with an emetic. Several days later he also published two pamphlets describing the meeting, and proclaimed Curll's death. Pope hoped that the combination of the poisoning and the wit of his writing would change the public view of Curll from a victim, to a deserving villain. Meanwhile, Curll responded by publishing material critical of Pope and his religion. The incident, meant to secure Pope's status as an elevated figure amongst his peers, created a lifelong and bitter rivalry between the two men, but may have been beneficial to both; Pope as the man of letters under constant attack from the hacks of Grub Street, and Curll using the incident to increase the profits from his business.\n\nPope later immortalised Grub Street in his 1728 poem \"The Dunciad\", a satire of \"the Grub-street Race\" of commercial writers. Such infighting was not unusual, but a particularly notable episode occurred from 1752–1753, when Henry Fielding started a \"paper war\" against hack writers on Grub Street. Fielding had worked in Grub Street during the late 1730s. His career as a dramatist was curtailed by the Theatrical Licensing Act (provoked by Fielding's anti-Walpole satire such as \"Tom Thumb\" and \"Covent Garden Tragedy\") and he turned to law, supporting his income with normal Grub Street work. He also launched \"The Champion\", and over the following years edited several newspapers, including from 1752–1754 \"The Covent-Garden Journal\". The \"war\" spanned many of London's publications, and resulted in countless essays, poems, and even a series of mock epic poems starting with Christopher Smart's \"The Hilliad\" (a pun on Pope's \"Dunciad\"). Although it is not clear what started the dispute, it resulted in a divide of authors who either supported Fielding or Hill, and few in between.\n\nThe avariciousness of the Grub Street press was often demonstrated in the manner in which they treated notable, or notorious public figures. John Church, an independent minister born in 1780, raised the ire of the local hacks when he admitted he had acted 'imprudently' following allegations he had sodomised young men in his congregation. Satire was a popular pastime—the Mary Toft affair of 1726, concerning a woman who fooled some of the medical establishment into believing she had given birth to rabbits—produced a notable dirge of diaries, letters, satiric poems, ballads, false confessions, cartoons, and pamphlets.\n\nGrub Street was renamed as Milton Street in 1830, apparently in memory of a tradesman who owned the building lease of the street. By the middle of the 19th century it had lost some of its negative connotations; authors were by that time viewed in the same light as traditionally more esteemed professions, although 'Grub Street' remained a metaphor for the commercial production of printed matter, regardless of whether such matter actually originated from Grub Street itself.\n\nWriter George Augustus Henry Sala said that during his years as a Grub Street 'hack', \"most of us were about the idlest young dogs that squandered away their time on the pavements of Paris or London. We would not work. I declare in all candour that... the average number of hours per week which I devoted to literary production did not exceed four.\"\nAlthough the street no longer exists in name (and modern construction has changed much of the area), the name continues to exist in modern use. Much of the area was destroyed by enemy bombing in World War II, and has since been replaced by the Barbican Estate. Milton Street still exists. The area was heavily damaged during World War II, and most of Milton Street was itself swallowed up by the Barbican Estate development after the war. A short section survives between Silk Street and Chiswell Street, and borders the City of London's Brewery Conservation Area.\n\nAs Grub Street became a metaphor for the commercial production of printed matter, it gradually found use in early 18th-century America. Early publications such as handwritten ditties and squibs were circulated among the gentry and taverns and coffee-houses. As in England, many were directed at politicians of the day.\n\n\"Grub Street Productions,\" a partnership of American TV producers David Angell, Peter Casey and David Lee, produced the situation comedies \"Wings\" and \"Frasier\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6106920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6106920", "title": "Hammerfall (novel)", "text": "Hammerfall (novel)\n\nHammerfall is a science fiction novel by American science fiction and fantasy author . It was first published in June 2001 in the United States by HarperCollins under its Eos Books imprint. It was also serialized in two parts as \"Ribelle Genetico\" and \"Il Pianeta del Deserto\" in the Italian science fiction magazine, \"Urania\", published in issue 1425 in October 2001, and issue 1430 in January 2002, respectively.\n\n\"Hammerfall\" is the first of two novels set in Cherryh's Gene Wars universe, and concerns gene manipulation using nanotechnology, and contact with an alien race, the \"ondat\". The second novel, \"Forge of Heaven\" was published in June 2004.\n\n\"Hammerfall\" was nominated for the John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel in 2002, and was a third-place runner-up.\n\n\"Hammerfall\" takes place on an unspecified planet, where the Ila, believed to be a god and immortal, rules the Lakht, a huge desert, and all its villages from the holy city of Oburan. Some of the villagers, including Marak, an abjorian fighter of the Kais Tain tribe, are afflicted with a \"madness\" that manifests itself in the form of voices and visions, and are outcast from their communities. The Ila, however, is interested in the \"mad\" and orders that they be rounded up and brought across the desert to Oburan.\n\nThe Ila singles out Marak, because he and his father had launched an unsuccessful rebellion against her. She queries Marak on the nature of these visions and voices, and, intimidated by her holiness, he tells her they appear to come from the east where there is a silver tower he is drawn to. She instructs Marak to lead the other mad east across the desert to find the source of the madness, and promises that if he returns with the answer, she will make him ruler of Kais Tain. After several weeks in the harsh desert, the visions and voices draw Marak and the others to the silver tower where they meet Luz, who appears to be a deity like the Ila.\n\nLuz explains to Marak that the \"mad\" have tiny \"creatures\" in their blood that makes them see and hear things. These are \"makers\", or nanoceles that they have infected them with, and it is Luz who has been calling them east. She tells Marak that when the Ila first arrived on the planet over 500 years ago, she used her own makers to modify man and beast to survive in the desert, but this angered the \"ondat\", an alien species, because she had released makers on their world and damaged its ecology. The \"ondat\" feared her actions would rekindle the age-old Gene Wars, and want to rid the planet of all Ila's life. Luz's people negotiated with the \"ondat\" to give them time to undo the Ila's makers with their own more advanced nanoceles, and prevent the \"ondat\" from destroying the planet. Thirty years ago, Luz and her team landed and began releasing their own makers into villagers to draw them to her. The \"ondat\" agreed to hold off their destruction for thirty years, and to spare the area surrounding Luz's tower once it begins. Luz instructs Marak to return across the desert to Oburan and persuade the Ila and other survivors to come to Luz's Refuge where they will be safe. The thirty years is already up and Marak has to hurry because the \"ondat\" have already begun their bombardment of the Lakht with asteroids from space.\n\nTo stress the urgency of Marak's new mission, Luz feeds the \"mad\" with a new vision, that of the final \"ondat\" assault on the world, the hammerfall. Guided by Luz's voice, Marak manages to avoid the bombardment from space and reaches Oburan, only to finds it in ruins, and the Ila and other survivors camped nearby. Keeping to his promise, Marak tells her what he found, and about Luz and her makers. The Ila reveals that she knew about Luz, and while at odds with her, she agrees to return with Marak to her Refuge because she knows that the hammerfall is coming.\n\nThe return caravan with the Ila and other survivors barely makes it across the desert to the Refuge before the final hammer falls, destroying the Lakht. An uneasy truce is established between the Ila and Luz, the world's two \"gods\", and while the Ila insists that her makers will overcome Luz's, it is \"her\" makers that are overwhelmed by Luz's. The weather has changed—it is cold and often snows, but after several generations, Marak, whose makers have made him immortal, begins routine inspections of the transformed Lakht, and Luz prepares to release new creatures she has engineered.\n\nA review in \"Publishers Weekly\" praised \"Hammerfall\", calling it a \"satisfying novel\" that is a \"blend of gorgeous, slightly knotty prose, deeply conflicted heroes, desperate action and nicely observed cultural details\". Writing in the SF Reader, Elizabeth Kelley Buzbee described the book as a \"world-class space opera\" that explores \"the low tech/high tech clash of cultures\". But she was critical of Cherryh's portrayal of the two major characters, Marak and the Ila, who she felt come across as being the perfect hero and villain. Buzbee said that neither of them appear to experience any internal conflict: one never doubts Makak's sanity, and the Ila is simply too opaque to understand.\n\nA reviewer in Kirkus Reviews called \"Hammerfall\" \"[v]ery disappointing\", complaining that it has \"no recognizable plot\" and is a \"threadbare scenario that's little more than elaborate stage-setting for the series to come\". In the Science Fiction Weekly, science fiction writer and literary critic John Clute said the novel is \"a most extraordinary text [that] is told with all the intensity of an epic\", but found it \"exhausti[ng]\". He described the storyline, the endless treks back and forth across the desert, as \"Idiot-Plot circumbendibus\", adding that it \"walks in its own bitter water\". \n\nA New England Science Fiction Association reviewer, Elisabeth Carey said that \"Hammerfall\" reads like a fantasy because it is written from Marak's perspective, a non-technological nomad, who probably interprets the technology he witnesses as magic. She found the book \"interesting and mostly enjoyable\", but added that it might be enjoyed more by fans of Cherryh's fantasy than her science fiction. Carey was, however, critical of Luz's characterization, complaining that she is \"difficult and obscure\", and that some of Marak's wrong decisions are because she is so obscure. Carey wrote: \"This is dangerously close to being an idiot plot, a plot in which critical events would not happen, if otherwise intelligent characters did not behave like idiots\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5662829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5662829", "title": "History of the Malay language", "text": "History of the Malay language\n\nMalay is a major language of the Austronesian language family. Over a period of two millennia, from a form that probably consisted of only 157 original words, Malay has undergone various stages of development that derived from different layers of foreign influences through international trade, religious expansion, colonisation and developments of new socio-political trends. The oldest form of Malay is descended from the Proto-Malayo-Polynesian language spoken by the earliest Austronesian settlers in Southeast Asia. This form would later evolved into Old Malay when Indian cultures and religions began penetrating the region. Old Malay contained some terms that exist today, but are unintelligible to modern speakers, while the modern language is already largely recognisable in written Classical Malay of 1303 CE.\n\nMalay evolved extensively into Classical Malay through the gradual influx of numerous Arabic and Persian vocabulary, when Islam made its way to the region. Initially, Classical Malay was a diverse group of dialects, reflecting the varied origins of the Malay kingdoms of Southeast Asia. One of these dialects that was developed in the literary tradition of Melaka in the 15th century, eventually became predominant. The strong influence of Melaka in international trade in the region resulted in Malay as a \"lingua franca\" in commerce and diplomacy, a status that it maintained throughout the age of the succeeding Malay sultanates, the European colonial era and the modern times. From 19th to 20th century, Malay evolved progressively through a significant grammatical improvements and lexical enrichment into a modern language with more than 800,000 phrases in various disciplines.\n\nAncient Malay, or Proto-Malay, is the language believed to have existed in prehistoric times, spoken by the early Austronesian settlers in the region. Its ancestor, the Proto-Malayo-Polynesian language that derived from Proto-Austronesian, began to break up by at least 2000 BCE as a result possibly by the southward expansion of Austronesian peoples into the Philippines, Borneo, Maluku and Sulawesi from the island of Taiwan. Proto-Malay language was spoken in Borneo at least by 1000 BCE and was, it has been argued, the ancestral language of all subsequent Malay dialects. Linguists generally agree that the homeland of the Malayic-Dayak languages is in Borneo, based on its geographic spread in the interior, its variations that are not due to contact-induced change, and its sometimes conservative character. Around the beginning of the first millennium, Malayic speakers had established settlements in the coastal regions of modern-day South Central Vietnam, Tambelan, Riau Islands, Sumatra, Malay peninsula, Borneo, Luzon, Maluku Islands, Bangka-Belitung Islands and Java.\n\nThe beginning of the common era saw the growing influence of Indian civilisation in the archipelago. With the penetration and proliferation of Dravidian vocabulary and the influence of major Indian religions, Ancient Malay evolved into the Old Malay language. The Dong Yen Chau inscription, believed to be from the 4th century CE, was discovered in the northwest of Tra Kieu, near the old Champa capital of Indrapura, modern day Vietnam; however, it is considered to be in the related Old Cham language rather than Old Malay by experts such as Graham Thurgood. The oldest uncontroversial specimen of Old Malay is the 7th century CE Sojomerto inscription from Central Java, Kedukan Bukit Inscription from South Sumatra and several other inscriptions dating from the 7th to 10th centuries discovered in Sumatra, Malay peninsula, western Java, other islands of the Sunda archipelago, and Luzon. All these Old Malay inscriptions used either scripts of Indian origin such as Pallava, Nagari or the Indian-influenced Old Sumatran characters.\n\nThe Old Malay system is greatly influenced by Sanskrit scriptures in terms of phonemes, morphemes, vocabulary and the characteristics of scholarship, particularly when the words are closely related to Indian culture such as \"puja\", \"kesatria\", \"maharaja\" and \"raja\", as well as on the Hindu-Buddhist religion such as \"dosa\", \"pahala\", \"neraka\", \"syurga\" or \"surga\" (used in Indonesia-which was based on Malay), \"puasa\", \"sami\" and \"biara\", which lasts until today.\n\nIt is popularly claimed that the Old Malay of the Srivijayan inscriptions from South Sumatra is the ancestor of the Classical Malay. However, as noted by some linguists, the precise relationship between these two, whether ancestral or not, is problematical and remained uncertain. This is due to the existence of a number of morphological and syntactic peculiarities, and affixes which are familiar from the related Batak and Javanese languages but are not found even in the oldest manuscripts of Classical Malay. It may be the case that the language of the Srivijayan inscriptions is a close cousin rather than an ancestor of Classical Malay. Moreover, although the earliest evidence of Classical Malay had been found in the Malay peninsular from 1303, Old Malay remained in use as a written language in Sumatra right up to the end of the 14th century, evidenced from Bukit Gombak inscription dated 1357 and Tanjung Tanah manuscript of Adityavarman era (1347–1375).\n\nThe period of Classical Malay started when Islam gained its foothold in the region and the elevation of its status to a state religion. As a result of Islamisation and growth in trade with the Muslim world, this era witnessed the penetration of Arabic and Persian vocabulary as well as the integration of major Islamic cultures with local Malay culture. Earliest instances of Arabic lexicons incorporated in the pre-classical Malay written in Kawi was found in the Minyetujoh inscription dated 1380 from Aceh. Pre-Classical Malay took on a more radical form as attested in the 1303 CE Terengganu Inscription Stone and the 1468 CE Pengkalan Kempas Inscription from Malay peninsula. Both inscriptions not only serve as the evidence of Islam as a state religion, but also as the oldest surviving specimen of the dominant classical orthographic form, the Jawi script. Similar inscriptions containing various adopted Arabic terms with some of them still written the indianised scripts were also discovered in Sumatra and Borneo.\n\nThe Pre-Classical Malay evolved and reached its refined form during the golden age of the Malay empire of Melaka and its successor Johor starting from the 15th century. As a bustling port city with a diverse population of 200,000 from different nations, the largest in Southeast Asia at that time, Melaka became a melting pot of different cultures and languages. More loan words from Arab, Persian, Tamil and Chinese were absorbed and the period witnessed the flowering of Malay literature as well as professional development in royal leadership and public administration. In contrast with Old Malay, the literary themes of Melaka had expanded beyond the decorative \"belles-lettres\" and theological works, evidenced with the inclusion of accountancy, maritime laws, credit notes and trade licenses in its literary tradition. Some prominent manuscripts of this category are \"Undang-Undang Melaka\" ('Laws of Melaka'), \"Undang-Undang Laut Melaka\" (Melakan Maritime Laws) and \"Hukum Kanun Pahang\" ('Laws of Pahang'). The literary tradition was further enriched with the translations of various foreign literary works such as \"Hikayat Muhammad Hanafiah\" and \"Hikayat Amir Hamzah\", and the emergence of new intellectual writings in philosophy, tasawuf, tafsir, history and many others in Malay, represented by manuscripts like \"Sulalatus al-Salatin\" and \"Furu' Al-Masa'il\".\n\nMelaka's success as a centre of commerce, religion, and literary output has made it an important point of cultural reference to the many influential Malay sultanates in the later centuries. This has resulted the growing importance of Classical Malay as the sole lingua franca of the region. Through inter-ethnic contact and trade, the Classical Malay spread beyond the traditional Malay speaking world and resulted in a trade language that was called \"Bahasa Melayu pasar\" (\"Bazaar Malay\") or \"Bahasa Melayu rendah\" (\"Low Malay\") as opposed to \"Bahasa Melayu tinggi\" (High Malay) of Melaka-Johor. It is generally believed that Bazaar Malay was a pidgin, perhaps influenced by contact between Malay, Chinese and non-Malay natives traders. The most important development, however, has been that pidgin Malay creolised, creating several new languages such as the Ambonese Malay, Manado Malay, Makassar Malay and Betawi language. Apart from being the primary instrument in spreading Islam and commercial activities, Malay also became a court and literary language for kingdoms beyond its traditional realm like Aceh, Banjar and Ternate and also used in diplomatic communications with the European colonial powers. This is evidenced from diplomatic letters from Sultan Abu Hayat II of Ternate to King John III of Portugal dated from 1521 to 1522, a letter from Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah of Aceh to Captain Sir Henry Middleton of the East India Company dated 1602, and a golden letter from Sultan Iskandar Muda of Aceh to King James I of England dated 1615.\n\nThe early phase of European colonisation in Southeast Asia began with the arrival of the Portuguese in the 16th century and the Dutch in the 17th century. This period also marked the dawn of Christianization in the region with its stronghold in Ambon, Banda and Batavia. In facilitating early missionary works, religious books and manuscripts began to be translated into Malay of which the earliest was initiated by a pious Dutch trader, Albert Ruyll in 1611. The book titled \"Sovrat A B C\" and written in Latin alphabet not only means in introducing Latin alphabet but also the basic tenets of Calvinism that includes the Ten Commandments, the faith and some prayers. This work later followed by several Bibles translated into Malay; \"Injil Mateus dan Markus\" (1638), \"Lukas dan Johanes\" (1646), \"Injil dan Perbuatan\" (1651), \"Kitab Kejadian\" (1662), \"Perjanjian Baru\" (1668) and \"Mazmur\" (1689).\n\nThe era of Classical Malay also witnessed the growing interest among foreigners in learning the Malay language for the purpose of commerce, diplomatic missions and missionary activities. Therefore, many books in the form of word-list or dictionary were written. The oldest of these was a Chinese-Malay word list compiled by the Ming officials of the Bureau of Translators during the heyday of Melaka Sultanate. The dictionary was known as \"Ma La Jia Guo Yi Yu\" (Words-list of Melaka Kingdom) and contains 482 entries categorised into 17 fields namely astronomy, geography, seasons and times, plants, birds and animals, houses and palaces, human behaviours and bodies, gold and jewelleries, social and history, colours, measurements and general words. In the 16th century, the word-list is believed still in use in China when a royal archive official Yang Lin reviewed the record in 1560 CE. In 1522, the first European-Malay word-list was compiled by an Italian explorer Antonio Pigafetta, who joined the Magellan's circumnavigation expedition. The Italian-Malay word-list by Pigafetta contains approximately 426 entries and became the main reference for the later Latin-Malay and French-Malay dictionaries.\n\n19th century was the period of strong Western political and commercial domination in Southeast Asia. The Dutch East India Company had effectively colonised the East Indies, the British Empire held several colonies and protectorates in Malay peninsula, Sarawak and North Borneo, the French possessed part of Indo-China, the Portuguese established their outposts in Timor, while the Spaniards and later the Americans gained control over the Philippines, where the Malay language did not thrive. The Dutch and British colonists, realising the importance in understanding the local languages and cultures particularly Malay, began establishing various centres of linguistic, literature and cultural studies in universities like Leiden and London. Thousands of Malay manuscripts as well as other historical artefacts of Malay culture were collected and studied. The use of Latin script began to expand in the fields of administration and education whereby the influence of English and Dutch literatures and languages started to penetrate and spread gradually into the Malay language.\n\nAt the same time, the technological development in printing method that enabled mass production at low prices increased the activities of authorship for general reading in the Malay language, a development that would later shifted away Malay literature from its traditional position in Malay courts. In addition, the report writing style of journalism began to bloom in the arena of Malay writing. A notable writer of this time was Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir with his famous works \"Hikayat Abdullah\", \"Kisah Pelayaran Abdullah ke Kelantan\" and \"Kisah Pelayaran Abdullah ke Mekah\". Abdullah's authorship marks an early stage in the transition from the classical to modern literature, taking Malay literature out of its preoccupation with folk-stories and legends into accurate historical descriptions.\n\nMany other well known books were published such as two notable classical literary work, \"Sulalatus Salatin\" and \"Taj Al-Salatin\". There were other famous religious books of the era which were not only published locally but also in countries like Egypt and Turkey. Among the earliest examples of Malay newspapers are \"Soerat Kabar Bahasa Malaijoe\" of Surabaya published in 1856, \"Bintang Timor\" of Padang published in 1965 and \"Jawi Peranakan\" of Singapore published in 1876. There was even a Malay newspaper published in Sri Lanka in 1869, known as \"Alamat Langkapuri\". Earlier in 1821, the first Malay magazine was published in Melaka known as \"Bustan Arifin\" and in 1856, a Malay magazine titled \"Bintang Oetara\" was published in Amsterdam.\n\nIn education, the Malay language of Melaka-Johor was regarded as the standard language and became the medium of instruction in schools during colonial era. Starting from 1821, Malay-medium Schools were established by the British colonial government in Penang, Melaka and Singapore. These were followed by many others in Malay states of the peninsular. This development generated the writings of text books for schools, in addition to the publication of reference materials such as Malay dictionaries and grammar books. Apart from that, an important position was given towards the use of Malay in British administration, which requires every public servant in service to pass the special examination in Malay language as a condition for a confirmed post, as gazetted in \"Straits Government Gazette 1859\". In Indonesia, the Dutch colonial government recognised the Melaka-Johor Malay used in Riau as High Malay and promoted it as a medium of communication between the Dutch and local population. The language was also taught in schools not only in Riau, but also East Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan and East Indonesia.\n\nThe flourishing of pre-modern Malay literature in 19th century led to the rise of intellectual movement among the locals and the emergence of new community of Malay linguists. The appreciation of language grew and various efforts were undertaken by the community to further enhance the usage of Malay as well as to improve its abilities in facing the challenging modern era. Among the efforts done was the planning of a corpus for Malay language, first initiated by \"Pakatan Belajar-Mengajar Pengetahuan Bahasa\" (Society for the Learning and Teaching of Linguistic Knowledge), established in 1888. The society that was renamed in 1935 as \"Pakatan Bahasa Melayu dan Persuratan Buku Diraja Johor\" (The Johor Royal Society of Malay language and Literary works), involved actively in arranging and compiling the guidelines for spelling, dictionaries, grammars, punctuations, letters, essays, terminologies and many others. The establishment of Sultan Idris Training College (SITC) in Tanjung Malim, Perak in 1922 intensified these efforts. In 1936, Za'ba, an outstanding Malay scholar and lecturer of SITC, produced a Malay grammar book series entitled \"Pelita Bahasa\" that modernised the structure of the Classical Malay language and became the basis for the Malay language that is in use today. The most important change was in syntax, from the classical passive form to the modern active form. In the 20th century, other improvements were also carried out by other associations, organisations, governmental institutions and congresses in various part of the region.\n\nWriting has its unique place in the history of self-awareness and the nationalist struggle in Indonesia and Malaysia. Apart from being the main tools to spread knowledge and information, newspapers and journals like \"Al-Imam\" (1906), \"Panji Poestaka\" (1912), \"Lembaga Melayu\" (1914), \"Warta Malaya\" (1931), \"Poedjangga Baroe\" (1933) and \"Utusan Melayu\" (1939) became the main thrust in championing and shaping the fight for nationalism. Writing, whether in the form of novels, short stories, or poems, all played distinct roles in galvanising the spirit of Indonesian National Awakening and Malay nationalism.\n\nDuring the first \"Kongres Pemuda\" of Indonesia held in 1926, in the \"Sumpah Pemuda\", Malay language was proclaimed as the unifying language for the nation of Indonesia. In 1945, the language which later renamed \"Bahasa Indonesia\" in 1928 became the national language as enshried in the constitution of an independent Indonesia. Later in 1957, Malay language was elevated to the status of national language for the independent Federation of Malaya (later reconstituted as Malaysia in 1963). Then in 1959, Malay language also received the status of national language in Brunei, although it only ceased to become a British protectorate in 1984. When Singapore separated from Malaysia in 1965, Malay became the national language of the new republic and one of the four official languages. The emergence of these newly independent states paved the way for a broader and widespread use of Malay (or Indonesian) in government administration and education. Colleges and universities with Malay as their primary medium of instructions were introduced and bloomed as the prominent centres for researches and production of new intellectual writings in Malay. After East Timor independence, Indonesian language become one of the working languages.\n\nThe Indonesian language as the unifying language for Indonesia is relatively open to accommodate influences from other Indonesian ethnics' languages, most notably Javanese as the majority ethnic group in Indonesia, Dutch as the previous coloniser, and English as the international language. As a result, Indonesian has wider sources of loanwords, as compared to Malay used in Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei. It was suggested that the Indonesian language is an artificial language made official in 1928. By artificial it means that Indonesian was designed by academics rather than evolving naturally as most common languages have, to accommodate the political purpose of establishing an official unifying language of Indonesia. By borrowing heavily from numerous other languages it expresses a natural linguistic evolution; in fact, it is as natural as the next language, as demonstrated in its exceptional capacity for absorbing foreign vocabulary. This disparate evolution of Indonesian language led to a need for an institution that can facilitate co-ordination and co-operation in linguistic development among countries with Malay language as their national language. The first instance of linguistic co-operation was in 1959 between Malaya and Indonesia, and this was further strengthened in 1972 when MBIM (a short form for \"Majlis Bahasa Indonesia-Malaysia\" - Language Council of Indonesia-Malaysia) was formed. MBIM later grew into MABBIM (\"Majlis Bahasa Brunei-Indonesia-Malaysia\" - Language Council of Brunei-Indonesia-Malaysia) in 1985 with the inclusion of Brunei as a member and Singapore as a permanent observer. Other important institution is Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka established in 1956. It is a government body responsible for co-ordinating the use of the Malay language in Malaysia and Brunei.\n\nThe dominant orthographic form of Modern Malay language that based on Roman or Latin script, the Malay alphabet, was first developed in the early 20th century. As the Malay-speaking countries were divided between two colonial administrations (the Dutch and the British), two major different spelling orthographies were developed in the Dutch East Indies and British Malaya respectively, influenced by the orthographies of their respective colonial tongues. In 1901, Van Ophuijsen Spelling System (1901–1947) became the standard orthography for Malay Language in Dutch East Indies. In the following year, the government of the Federated Malay States established an orthographic commission headed by Sir Richard James Wilkinson which later developed the \"Wilkinson Spelling System\" (1904–1933). These spelling systems would later succeeded by the Republican Spelling System (1947–1972) and the Za'ba Spelling System (1933–1942) respectively. During the Japanese Occupation of Malaya and Indonesia, there emerged a system which was supposed to uniformise the systems in the two countries. The system known as \"Fajar Asia\" (or 'the Dawn of Asia') appeared to use the Republican system of writing the vowels and the Malayan system of writing the consonants. This system only existed during the Occupation. In 1972, a declaration was made for a joint spelling system in both nations, known as \"Ejaan Rumi Baharu\" (New Rumi Spelling) in Malaysia and \"Sistem Ejaan Yang Disempurnakan\" (Perfected Spelling System) in Indonesia. With the introduction of this new common spelling system, all administrative documents, teaching and learning materials and all forms of written communication is based on a relatively uniform spelling system and this helps in effective and efficient communication, particularly in national administration and education.\n\nDespite the widespread and institutionalised use of Malay alphabet, Jawi script remains as one of the two official scripts in Brunei, and is used as an alternate script in Malaysia. Day-to-day usage of Jawi is maintained in more conservative Malay-populated areas such as Pattani in Thailand and Kelantan in Malaysia. The script is used for religious and Malay cultural administration in Terengganu, Kelantan, Kedah, Perlis and Johor. The influence of the script is still present in Sulu and Marawi in the Philippines while in Indonesia, Jawi script is still widely used in Riau and Riau Island province, where road signs and government buildings signs are written in this script.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13550433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13550433", "title": "International VELUX Award for Students of Architecture", "text": "International VELUX Award for Students of Architecture\n\nThe International VELUX Award challenges students of architecture to explore the theme of sunlight and daylight. The award is biennial and was first presented in 2004.\n\nThe award celebrates excellence in completed works on any scale from a small scale component to large urban contexts or abstract concepts and experimentation. The award is presented by VELUX in close cooperation with the International Union of Architects (UIA) and the European Association for Architectural Education (EAAE).\n\n“Light of Tomorrow” is the theme of the International VELUX Award. The award wants to challenge the future of daylight in the built environment. The award contains no specific categories and is in no way restricted to the use of VELUX products. The jury of the International VELUX Award comprises internationally recognized architects and other building professionals. Any registered student of architecture – individual or team – from all over the world may participate in the award. The award wants to acknowledge not only the students but their teachers as well. Therefore, all students must be backed and granted submission by a teacher from a school of architecture.\n\nThe first International VELUX Award took place in 2004. 760 students from 194 schools in 34 countries in Europe registered, and 258 students from 106 schools in 27 countries submitted their projects. The international jury led by Glenn Murcutt selected three winners and eight honourable mentions, who were announced at the Award event held in Paris.\n\nIn 2004 the first prize went to Norwegian student Claes Heske Ekornås for his project “Light as matter”. In 2004, ten winners were announced at the Award event in Paris.\n\nIn 2006, the award went global – inviting students from all over the world to participate. The number of submissions more than doubled reaching 557 projects from 225 schools in 53 countries. The international jury led by Per Olaf Fjeld decided to award three winners and 17 honourable mentions, and they were all celebrated at the Award event at the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.\n\nLouise Groenlund of Denmark won the International VELUX Award for her project ”A museum of photography”. Twenty winners and honourable mentions were announced at the Award event at the Guggenheim Bilbao in November 2006.\n\nIn 2008, the award received 686 projects, representing 244 schools of architecture in 46 countries. The international jury led by jury chairman Hani Rashid of Asymptote Architecture decided to award three winners and eight honourable mentions, who were celebrated at the Pisani Palace in Venice in November 2008.\n\nThe jury appointed three prize winners and eight honourable mentions. Reilly O’Neil Hogan from Cornell University, USA, won first prize for his project “Embodied Ephemerality”. Ruan Hau and Xiong Xing from Tsinghua University in Beijing won second prize for their project ”Interface repairing – Light Festival”. Dean Carlo MacGregor from Lusíada University in Lisbon, Portugal, won third prize for his project “Light has a body”.\n\nIn 2010, the award represented more countries than ever before. There were 673 entries from 280 schools in 55 countries. The international jury led by jury chairman Magda Mostafa decided to award three winners and eight honourable mentions. They were celebrated at the award event on 6 October 2010 in La Rochelle, France.\n\nThe jury appointed three prize winners and eight honourable mentions. Young-Gook Park, Kim Dea Hyun, Choi Jin Kyu and Kim Won Ill from Hanyang University, South Korea, won the first prize for their project Constellation of Light Field. Ma Xin, Wang Rui and Yang Meng from the Architecture School of Tianjin University, China, won the second prize for their project Condensation of Variational Sunlight Influences. Joe Wu from Delft University of Technology, TU Delft, the Netherlands, also won the second prize for his project Lightscape between gaps.\n\nThe five regional winners of Daylight in Buildings were:\n\n\nThe five regional winners of Daylight Investigations were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4236691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4236691", "title": "Jamming (dance)", "text": "Jamming (dance)\n\nJamming in dance culture is a kind of informal show-off during a social dance party. Dancers clear a circle (jam circle or dance circle) and dancers or dance couples take turns showing their best tricks while the remaining dancers cheer the jammers on. While some jam circles are staged, most form organically and spontaneously when the energy and mood is right. \n\nThe term originated during the swing era of dancing, probably borrowed or appeared in parallel with the expression \"jam session\" in music. Scenes with jamming may be seen in movies and musicals, such as \"Hellzapoppin\". At the same time, this kind of dance behavior is not unusual in folk dances in various cultures all over the world and is often included in scenic performances when a group dance is interweaved with several solos. In Lindy hop, it is common for jam circles to take place on or around special occasions such as birthdays or weddings. In these cases, the person(s) being celebrated will usually stay in the circle for the duration of the jam and, rather than dance one song with one partner, will dance one song but swap partners many times throughout.\n\nFor Flamenco dancing, the circle is called a juerga.\n\nSpecific to the bboying culture, cypher circles hold the similar concepts as jam circles. When one or two bboys/bgirls get together to dance, it is known as jamming. But when enough bboys/bgirls get together to make a circle where one can break in, it is known as \"cyphering\". Cyphering takes place at nearly every bboying jam that takes place. It is a way to show one's experience, the flavor they put into their style, and in some cases, specifically to \"burn\" or \"smoke\" another breaker. \n\nA variant of the 'show case' style jam circles is a circle where dancers within the circle swap partners from the outside. Less \"showy\" than a jam circle, these jams are to commemorate an occasion for the person(s) in the circle. Another way to consider the difference is that while the jam circles showcase ability, the dance circles here showcase dancers. For example, this kind of jam circle may be organized when a dancer from the local dance community celebrates a birthday, or is moving away. Other occasions for these jams include a welcome dance for new members and/or visitors. Many of these circles are a planned portion of the evening.\n\nThe dancers of honor stay in the circle the whole time while other dancers from outside the circle cut in 'on the fly'. Dancers \"break in\", or \"steal\", their way into the middle by breaking the connection of the dancers and inserting themselves such that the person of honor continues dancing without missing a beat. Some scenes do this in an organized fashion (such as a line), however, many do so without rules. Such birthday jams are common in swing dance and hustle communities in the United States but not unusual in salsa or tango. While nerve-wracking for beginning dancers the jams do help to meet the local crowd.\n\nThis form of jamming often occurs during prom, high school or college dance parties. What happens is that during the dances, the dancers would form a circle, and often, one by one, the dancers, individually or by a group, would come into the circle and display their dancing abilities. The style of dancing is popular amongst hip hop dancers.\n\nThis variant of jam circle typically does not involve much of an audience. While a few competitions have staged Charleston jams and competitions, almost always they happen on their own when a few dancers start doing solo Charleston next to each other. Eventually the dancers form a circle and dance solo charleston while watching each other. These jams occur frequently at most Lindy Hop events.\n\n"}
{"id": "169482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169482", "title": "Kamaboko", "text": "Kamaboko\n\nIt is made by forming various pureed white fish and additives such as MSG into distinctive loaves, which are then steamed until fully cooked and firm. These are sliced and either served unheated (or chilled) with various dipping sauces, or added to various hot soups, rice, or noodle dishes. Kamaboko is typically sold in semicylindrical loaves. Some include artistic patterns, such as the pink spiral on each slice of narutomaki, named after the well-known tidal whirlpool near the Japanese city of Naruto.\n\nThere is no precise English translation for kamaboko. Rough equivalents are \"fish paste\", \"fish loaf\", \"fish cake\", and \"fish sausage\".. Tsuji recommends using the Japanese name in English (cf., \"sushi\"). The Ashkenazi Jewish dish gefilte fish is somewhat similar, but as a forcemeat adds fat. \n\nRed-skinned and white kamaboko are typically served at celebratory and holiday meals, as red and white are considered to bring good luck. \n\nKamaboko has been made in Japan since the 14th century AD and is now available nearly worldwide. The simulated crab meat product \"kanikama\" (short for \"kani-kamaboko\") is the best-known form of \"surimi\" in the West. In Japan, the prepackaged snack \"chīkama\" (cheese plus kamaboko) is commonly sold in convenience stores. In the city of Uwajima, a type of fried kamaboko called jakoten is popular.\n\nEarly kamaboko was made with minced catfish (Silurus asotus). \n\nThe white fish used to make surimi (Japanese: 擂り身, literally \"ground meat\") include:\n\n\nThe Kamaboko organization of Japan specified November 15 for \"Kamaboko Day\" established in 1983.\n\nIn Hawaii, pink or red-skinned \"kamaboko\" is readily available in grocery stores. It is a staple of saimin, a popular noodle soup created in Hawaii from the blending of Chinese and Japanese ingredients. Kamaboko is sometimes referred to as \"fish cake\" in English.\n\nAfter World War II, surplus Quonset huts became popular as housing in Hawaii. They became known as \"kamaboko houses\" due to the Quonset hut's half- cylindrical shape, similar to Kamaboko.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4111769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111769", "title": "Kappa Mikey", "text": "Kappa Mikey\n\nKappa Mikey is an American animated comedy television series created by Larry Schwarz. The show is Nicktoons Network's first original half-hour series, bought during the same period as other Animation Collective series such as \"Three Delivery\" and \"\", as well as Flash shows from other studios, such as \"Edgar & Ellen\" and \"The Secret Show\", though the latter was made from BBC. The series premiered on February 25, 2006 and ended on September 20, 2008. The series is MTV's first global acquisition, and was available on iTunes until 2009.\n\n\"Kappa Mikey\" was marketed as \"the first anime to be produced entirely in the United States\", according to press releases from MTV, Nicktoons Network and various other sources, as the term \"anime\" in English is generally reserved for animation originally produced for the Japanese market. It uses Japanese animation and culture as inspiration for its concept, rather than being \"true\" anime. As a matter of fact, the series is a homage/parody of Japanese anime.\n\nThe series focuses on a rather self-centered, cocky adolescent American boy named \"Mikey\" who wins a starring role in a popular Japanese television series \"LilyMu\" by centering on a team of crime-fighters with personalities based around typical anime characters. He becomes acquainted with his co-stars, including Gonard, a tall, husky, sweet, rather dimwitted young man who portrays the primary antagonist of the \"LilyMu\" series, Lily, the spoiled, heartless portrayer of the otherwise ingenuous and sweet damsel-in-distress of \"LilyMu\" who contempts Mikey for having overtaken her limelight, Mitsuki, a sweet-natured actress infatuated with Mikey who plays a much tougher character in the series than in reality, and Guano, a small, fuzzy, purple creature with many insecurities, responsibilities, strange habits and tendencies. The program in which the actors are featured is run by a tyrannical, strict and loud boss named \"Ozu\" who is not only noted for his sour demeanor and constant infuriation with Mikey, but also his mentoring guidance, and aided by Yes-Man, his dedicated and trustworthy assistant who loyally upholds him and agrees with any decision that he makes. The series centers on the actors' daily lives aside from filming the television program and the predicaments in which they may entangle themselves at the hands of their own cockiness, incompetence, or celebrity status, and episodes usually feature sub-plots following the lives of whichever characters are not being primarily featured in that particular episode. The series relies heavily on gags and other things for comedy.\n\nThe show's title is a play on the word kappamaki, a type of sushi. It is suggested that the show was the inspiration for naming the title character \"Mikey\" and used the prefix \"kappa\". Like Mikey, who is a \"fish out of water\" in Japan, the kappa itself is a water demon creature who can live on land. The kappas first appeared on this show in the episode \"Mikey, Kappa\" on August 5, 2007, where the origin of the title was explained. Coincidentally, Mikey also shares his name with the actor who supplies his voice.\n\n\"Kappa Mikey\" is different from other cartoons produced at the turn of the 21st century, in that the property was owned by the studio instead of an agency, the animation was not outsourced and the episodes were written by a full-time staff. After producing Internet-based projects and television spots, the series became Animation Collective's first television series. The series was produced in New York City starting from the summer of 2005. Production for the two seasons wrapped in September 2007.\n\nSchwarz conceived the series in 2000, when he was running Rumpus toys, a toy design company in New York City, but they folded before any storyboarding could commence. They resurfaced years later as Animation Collective, and produced an early test pilot for a pitch to MTV Networks, where the character designs and backgrounds resembled more like those found in Adult Swim series \"Perfect Hair Forever\", and the humor was also more adult-oriented. Much of the current cast was voicing their characters even this early in production. MTV declined the deal, and Nickelodeon eventually picked up the project. The series was tweaked heavily in order to be aimed at a younger audience. Voice talents were usually local, and its audio was recorded at Manhattan-based NYAV Post, which Michael Sinterniklaas owns. Larry Schwarz, along with the other executive producers, oversaw all phases of production, but only had writing credits on the pilot episode, \"Mikey Impossible\" and \"A Christmas Mikey\". All the episodes were directed by Sergei Aniskov. The instrumental score was composed by John Angier, who also wrote the lyrics to \"The Recycling Song\", \"Ori and Yori's Hits\", \"Living With Mikey\", \"How Did We Get Here?\" and the songs from \"The Karaoke Episode\".\n\nThe series was animated in Adobe Flash, with some moments of CGI rendered in Maya. To further emphasize the contrast in animation styles, one group of animators was assigned to the anime characters, and another group was in charge of Mikey and the other American characters. The vehicles on \"LilyMu\" and around Tokyo, as well as the weapons, the Gonard balloon, Pirate King's ship, the Karaoke Genie Machine, etc., were created in Maya and exported into Flash using the Toon Filter. The backgrounds were modeled in Maya, and texture, details, and clouds were added in Photoshop. Some of the backgrounds were inspired by actual locations in Tokyo. The show's anime-style characters perform with large comedic overuses of face faults, such as a face and/or body turning into an exaggerated general appearance, or becoming much smaller. This allowed animators to have more control over how a character looks and acts than on many other Flash shows, and they did not always have to be on-model. The show uses clichés common to anime, including the sweat drop, lines over the eyes or no eyes at all, big heads, flaming eyes and bodies becoming smaller. Sometimes Mikey will try to do these things, which was one of the show's running gags, but cannot due to being drawn in an American style.\n\nA Kappa Mikey DVD was released on September 18, 2007 under the Starz Home Entertainment brand, and includes the episodes \"Lost in Transportation\", \"Easy Come, Easy Gonard\", and \"The Man Who Would Be Mikey\", all from the first season, as well as bonus material, including a fictional music video of \"I'm Alright\" taken from \"Battle of the Bands\", wallpaper, an interactive game parodying \"Hollywood Squares\", and a How-to-Draw-Mikey tutorial.\n\nIn 2008, the Animation Collective site advertised a second DVD that was scheduled be released sometime later that year. However, the announcement was removed from the website, leaving the exact release date to be unknown. The DVD was intended to include the first season in its entirety, with DVD extras, and would have been considered more of an \"official\" volume than the last one. No further announcement has been made as the status of this DVD. As of 2009, this release is shelved.\n\nSeason 1 (Episodes 1 – 13) was released on DVD on September 12, 2007 , and Season 2 (Episodes 14–26) was released on DVD on March 12, 2008 by Anchor Bay Entertainment in Australia.\n\nThe soundtrack for \"Kappa Karaoke\" is available as a downloadable album on iTunes. Both seasons of the show itself were also available for download from iTunes before they were later taken down from the online retailer.\n\n"}
{"id": "50921347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50921347", "title": "Kritik (magazine)", "text": "Kritik (magazine)\n\nKritik is a Danish language bimonthly cultural magazine with a special reference to literature, which is based in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n\"Kritik\" was established in 1967. The founders were Aage Henriksen and Johan Fjord Jensen. The magazine mostly features articles on literary criticism.\n\nKritik, based in Copenhagen, is published on a bimonthly basis by Gyldendal.\n\nThroughout its existence the editorial stance of \"Kritik\" has changed. In the 1970s the magazine tried to offer Marxism-oriented approach towards the understanding of literature. In the 1980s it heavily engaged in cultural criticism. During the 1990s its main focus was on art and philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1137338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137338", "title": "Kustom Kulture", "text": "Kustom Kulture\n\nKustom Kulture is a neologism used to describe the artworks, vehicles, hairstyles, and fashions of those who drove and built custom cars and motorcycles in the United States of America from the 1950s through today. \nIt was born out of the hot rod culture of Southern California of the 1960s.\n\nIn the early days of hot rodding, many fashions and styles developed. Over time, each of these distinct styles of customizing have blended and reshaped our everyday life. Artists such as Von Dutch (Kenny Howard), Robert Williams, and custom car builder Ed \"Big Daddy\" Roth; along with Lyle Fisk, Dean Jeffries; hot rod and lowrider customizers such as the Barris Brothers (Sam and George Barris); along with numerous tattoo artists, automobile painters, and movies and television shows such as \"American Graffiti\" and \"The Munsters\" (The Munster Koach, DRAG-U-LA) have all helped to form what is known as Custom Culture.\n\nCustom Culture is usually identified with the greasers of the 1950s, the drag racers of the 1960s, and the lowriders of the 1970s. Other subcultures that have had an influence on Custom Culture are the Skinheads, mods and rockers of the 1960s, the punk rockers of the 1970s, the metal and rockabilly music, along with the scooterboys of the 1980s, and psychobilly of the 1990s. Each separate culture has added their own customizations to the cars, their own fashions, influenced the music, and added their own ideas of what is cool, what is acceptable, and what is not. Everything from wild pinstriped paintjobs, to choptop Mercurys, to custom Harley-Davidson and Triumph motorcycles, to metal-flake and black primer paint jobs, along with music, cartoons, and monster movies have influenced what defines anyone and anything who is part of this automobile subculture.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, Kustom Kulture had taken on a rebirth of American subcultures from the 1950s and 1960s with DIY activities. Each style is distinct, and has its roots in American automobile history. Many styles that would not have tolerated each other in the past now come together in large car shows.\n\nThe rebirth of Kustom Kulture has seen the use of the term “Kustom Graphics” to describe the style of artwork associated with the subculture when applied to posters, flyers, T-shirts and logos.\n\nLocals in these countries, influenced by American culture, have created a local hot rod culture which is vibrant in Sweden and Finland where enthusiasts gather at meetings such as Power Big Meet and clubs like Wheels and Wings in Varberg, Sweden have established themselves in Hot Rod culture. Since there is very little \"vintage tin\" the hot rods in Sweden are generally made with a home made chassis (usually a Model T or A replica), with a Jaguar (or Volvo 240) rear axle, a small block V8, and fiberglass tub, but some have been built using for instance a Volvo Duett chassis. Because the Swedish regulations required a crash test even for custom-built passenger cars between 1969 and 1982, the Duett option was preferred, since it was considered a rebodied Duett rather than a new vehicle.\nSome 1950s and 1960s cars are also hot rodded, like Morris Minor, Ford Anglia, Volvo Amazon, Ford Cortina, '57 Chevy, to name but a few. These are known as custom cars (sometimes spelled Kustom).\n\n\nRenegade Magazine's Custom Culture Circus - Renegade Magazine\n\n"}
{"id": "21095394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21095394", "title": "LGBT rights in Barbados", "text": "LGBT rights in Barbados\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in Barbados do not enjoy the same rights as non-LGBT people. Homosexual acts are illegal (regardless of whether they were consensual and done in private) in Barbados, with a life sentence; however, the law is rarely enforced. The law is currently in effect, but under review. In June 2016, Attorney General Adriel Brathwaite said that gays should be \"left alone\" and protected in the eyes of the law.\n\nIn August 2016, the Belize Supreme Court struck down Belize's sodomy ban as unconstitutional. Because Belize and Barbados (and all member states of CARICOM) share an identical jurisprudence, Barbados' sodomy ban is also unconstitutional. However, unlike Belize, Barbados' Constitution contains a \"savings clause\", which protects laws inherited by the former British Empire from constitutional review, even if these laws run counter to fundamental human and constitutional rights.\n\nBecause of Barbados' small population, many LGBT Barbadians choose to remain in the closet in fear that coming out would expose them to the entire country.\n\nSame-sex and different-sex anal and oral sex (buggery or sodomy) are criminalised in Barbados. Chapter 154, Section 9 of the \"Sexual Offences Act\" criminalises buggery, regardless of whether the act was done in private and consensual. Punishment is life imprisonment. The law is rarely enforced, however.\n\nIn 2018, Human Rights Watch (HRW) published a report entitled: \"I Have to Leave to be me: Discriminatory Laws Against LGBT People in the Eastern Caribbean\". The organisation called on Barbados to repeal Section 9 and urged the Government to create a safe environment for all Barbadians. A government minister subsequently warned that external forces were trying to impose same-sex marriage on the country. HRW called the minister's response a \"cheap political trick\", as their report does not mention same-sex marriage at all, and instead focuses on the discrimination and harassment LGBT people face in Barbados.\n\nIn August 2016 and April 2018, the Belize Supreme Court and the Trinidad and Tobago High Court, respectively, ruled that laws criminalising homosexuality are unconstitutional. These rulings have been welcomed by Barbadian LGBT activists, who hope to have their own laws repealed too. However, Barbados' Constitution contains a \"savings clause\", which protects laws inherited by the former British Empire from constitutional review, even if these laws run counter to fundamental human and constitutional rights, thus making any legal challenge to the buggery law difficult. As such, Barbadian LGBT activists have filed suit in international courts instead. In June 2018, with the help of Canadian human rights groups, they filed a case with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights challenging Chapter 154, Section 9 of the \"Sexual Offences Act\".\n\nThe Anglican Bishop of Barbados, as well as the Catholic Church, have come out in opposition to the buggery law, stating that, while they morally oppose homosexuality, governments must respect the rights of all persons, including LGBT people. On the other hand, some fundamentalist, extremist and religious fanatic groups have attacked LGBT activists and LGBT people more broadly. These include the New Testament Church, which has made factually incorrect and unscientific comments regarding sexual orientation, claiming that heterosexuality, homosexuality and bisexuality are chosen, and has argued that discrimination against LGBT people should be encouraged, while at the same time victim playing.\n\nThere is no recognition of same-sex unions in Barbados. In June 2016, Attorney General Adriel Brathwaite said the Barbados Government will not change the law to allow for same-sex marriages.\n\nSame-sex couples are unable to legally adopt in Barbados.\n\nWhile not explicitly prohibited or regulated by law, the Barbados Fertility Centre offers IVF and artificial insemination treatments to lesbian couples. Surrogacy is illegal in Barbados.\n\nIn 2013, Donnya Piggott and Ro-Ann Mohammad founded the association Barbados Gays, Lesbians and All-Sexuals Against Discrimination as an organization to create an education mechanism and open public dialogue in a supportive manner for the LGBT community of Barbados.\n\nBarbados held its first pride parade in November 2017.\n\n, the Government of Barbados said it was investigating claims that some gay Barbadians were seeking refugee status in Canada. In 2016, a Guyanese newspaper reported that over 300 members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community in Barbados were seeking asylum in Canada, England and the United States because they fear persecution at home. The Bajan Minister for Foreign Affairs, Maxine McClean, stated a concern of the Government at these applications attempting to secure refugee status in Canada since two of the nine applications to the Canadian Government had already been denied and questions have been raised as to whether it is an attempt at abusing the refugee system to Canada.\n\nThe Bajan organisation United Gays and Lesbians Against AIDS, Barbados (UGLAAB) stated it was also looking to conduct its own investigation on the same allegations. \n\nThe resident U.S. Ambassador later commented to the local press that some of the other nations in region were among the highest number of such refugee applications to the United States, but he went on to say that the U.S. Embassy to Bridgetown had not yet reported any specific problems within Barbados to the U.S. State Department. The ambassador highlighted that sodomy laws were a part of statute law for Barbados and that the Barbadian Government should perhaps consider formally retiring those laws to maintain Barbados' good image internationally.\n\nIn 2011, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom stated during a Commonwealth of Nations Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Australia that his Government would find it difficult to provide aid for countries which still had laws banning sodomy on their statute books. Thereafter, the Attorney General for Barbados stated publicly that Barbados would not be dictated to by the U.K. Following the statement, several members of Barbados' openly gay community stated that Barbados should begin to offer packaged tourism deals for gay tourists. However, an informal comment line by the Barbados Nation newspaper found that plan to be disliked by some.\n\nFollowing the UK's comment, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights established a unit to tackle gay rights. It noted the problems some of the laws in the region presented and stated that it would \"promote the harmonious development of all its work areas based on the interdependence and indivisibility of all human rights and the need to protect the rights of all individuals and groups historically subjected to discrimination.\"\n\nRecent polls conducted by Caribbean Development Research Services Inc. (CADRES) have found Barbadians to be more tolerant than previous years. In a 2016 poll conducted by the Caribbean Development Research Services (CADRES), 67% of Barbadians described themselves as tolerant of the LGBT community. Another 82% also opposed discrimination against the LGBT community.\n\nIn recent years, due in part to the rapid legalisation of same-sex marriage in many countries including the United States, many American evangelical ministers have come to Barbados. Human rights activists have accused them of spreading and preaching violence and hatred. Owing to these evangelical ministers, homophobic rhetoric in Barbados has become more widespread. For example, a university lecturer called homosexuality \"illogical\", numerous doctors erroneously claimed that AIDS cannot be spread through heterosexual sex and many religious leaders correlated homosexuality to paedophilia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47613912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47613912", "title": "Leavisism", "text": "Leavisism\n\nLeavisism is a form of literary studies named after F. R. Leavis. Leavis was greatly influenced by Matthew Arnold and they share the notion that culture is the high point in civilization and concern of an educated minority. Leavis argues that prior to industrial revolution England had an authentic culture of the educated elite. For Leavis it was a golden age of an organic community with a lived culture of Folk-song and Folk-dance.\n"}
{"id": "5910480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5910480", "title": "Light Yagami", "text": "Light Yagami\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Mamoru Miyano in Japanese and by Brad Swaile in the English version. In the live-action film series, he is portrayed by Tatsuya Fujiwara with Swaile reprising his role as his English dub voice; he is portrayed by both Kenji Urai and Hayato Kakizawa in the musical; in the TV drama, he is portrayed by Masataka Kubota; and his counterpart in the American film is portrayed by Nat Wolff.\n\nTsugumi Ohba, the story writer of \"Death Note\", said that his editor suggested the family name \"Yagami\" for Light. Ohba said that he did not feel \"too concerned\" about the meaning of the name (the Kanji for \"Yagami\" are \"night\" and \"god\"); he said that after he created the final scene in the manga he \"liked\" that the final scene created \"deeper significance\" in the name, of Kira worshippers worshipping him at night under the light of the moon – his given name Light is written with the character for \"moon\".\n\nTakeshi Obata, the artist of \"Death Note\", said that he had \"no trouble\" designing Light as the character description presented to him, \"A brilliant honors student who's a little out there,\" was \"clear and detailed\". As the weekly serialization continued, Obata simplified the design by subconsciously removing \"unnecessary\" lines and felt that he became \"better\" at drawing Light. When Chapter 35 appeared and the editor informed Obata that Light loses his memories, Obata had to draw Light in a similar manner as he appeared in Chapter 1; Obata said \"It was like I had to forget everything I had learned.\" Obata said that he used \"a lot of effort\" to design Light's wardrobe. According to Obata, he encountered difficulty imagining the clothing of \"a brilliant person,\" so he looked through fashion magazines. Obata envisioned Light as a \"smart and formal guy\" who wears formal shirts. Most of Light's clothing in \"Death Note\" is \"fitted\" and Obata avoided jeans.\n\nWhen designing color book covers Obata assigned colors to characters to \"get the atmosphere right\". Obata assigned clear or \"lack of a color\" to Light.\n\nShusuke Kaneko, director of the film, intended for Light to appear sympathetic at the beginning of the film; when Light first gains the Death Note, Kaneko \"was careful\" to have Light react in a manner \"as you and I would\". Kaneko changed the story involving Light gaining his first notebook as he felt that the audience \"would have a hard time sympathizing\" with Light if the scene remained the same as it was in the manga. Kaneko added that as he portrayed Light as \"being enthralled\" as he \"becomes more cruel\" to make the audience members feel that they could \"do the terrible things he does\" even if the members do not sympathize with Light.\n\nTatsuya Fujiwara said that he felt difficulty portraying Light in the film series because of the lack of \"action\" and because Light has no signature mannerisms and therefore has his feelings displayed by his face; Fujiwara added that he struggled conveying Light's \"incredible \nintelligence\" and that the performance would appear \"very empty or simplistic\" if Light received an improper portrayal. Fujiwara explained that he wanted Light to cry in a particular scene even though Kaneko told Fujiwara \"Light doesn’t cry\" since Fujiwara believed that the scene would feel \"more honest\"; Kaneko used the take.\n\nKaneko designed Light's room to reflect the character's personality by making it clean and neat and filling it with legal, criminal history, foreign, and academic books. The original version of Light's room included a stereo; Kaneko replaced it with a vacuum cleaner to reflect Light's \"clean-freak self\".\n\nKenichi Matsuyama, the actor who portrayed L, said that he and Fujiwara became \"so immersed\" in their character portrayals that they did not talk to one another while on the set; when filming ceased they conversed and \"went out for a drink or two\". Matsuyama also said that Light and L are \"extremely\" alike in that they have \"a very strong sense of justice\".\n\nLight Yagami was born on February 28, 1986. He is an acknowledged genius, placing first in national exam tables and university entrance exams and is shown to be a model student, admired by both by his fellow students and teachers. He is also athletic and attractive, displaying a gentleman-like demeanor and an immensely likable and sensible personality, which has contributed to his popularity among his peers and teachers. At the beginning of the story, Light is a student in his last year of high school; he later attends . His father, Soichiro Yagami, is the chief of the National Police Agency and the head of the task force hunting for \"Kira\", the name the public has given to the perpetrator of a string of inexplicable murders around the world. His mother, Sachiko, is a housewife. His younger sister, Sayu, acts as a cheerful, less academic foil.\n\nWhen Light discovers the Death Note, which was dropped into the Human World by the Shinigami Ryuk, who becomes Light's companion, he is initially horrified of the Death Note's god-like abilities, but after realizing the potential of the notebook's abilities and it's utitility for a better cause, he begins a world-wide massacre, managing to murder numerous high-profile criminals and law-offenders around the world, in order to accomplish his goal of a utopian society without crime, under the alias of a god-like vigilante named \"Kira\": the Japanese trans-literation of the word: killer, given to him by the Japanese media and public. While his task originates with good intentions, he is corrupted by power within a week, plotting to rule his utopia as \"the god of the new world\", willing to kill anyone who impedes his plans. His ethics are utilitarian, justifying the most extreme acts in service of his cause. He is also driven by a need for victory, which motivates most of his cruelest acts. Combined with the power of the Death Note, his hubris and genius-level intellect convince him that only he can save the world. However, it is shown that he was not born a sociopath, as evidenced when he lost his memories of using the Death Note during the middle half of the series, during which he reverted back to his old personality: a polite, courteous and kind-hearted person, who is unwilling to manipulate others and believes that the act of murder is a crime, which wholly contradicts his personality while operating as \"Kira\" and also goes on to assist his father in finding \"Kira\". \n\nEventually a small task force of Japanese police officers, including Light's father, under the direction of the eccentric genius detective L begin to close in on Light. Although he suspects Light is Kira, L allows him to collaborate with the police on the case. This begins an intricate and complex game of cat and mouse between the two, with Light trying to learn L's real name so he can kill him, and L trying to get Light to expose himself so that he can arrest him. Eventually, via an elaborate plan that sees Light relinquish ownership of his Death Note, thus temporarily losing all memory of it, and the forced help of his fiancée Misa Amane's Shinigami Rem, L dies. Light then assumes the \"L\" persona and continues his charade of searching for Kira with the task force while carrying out the killings himself with help from Misa.\n\nOver four years later, Light is able to garner most of the world's support, reaching the point where his followers have begun to worship Kira as a literal deity. But two young intellectuals, Mello and Near, both raised as potential successors to L begin to separately investigate the case that took the life of their predecessor. Near heads the SPK (Special Provision for Kira), an American investigation team composed of CIA and FBI agents, while Mello teams up with the Mafia. Although Mello dies working separate from Near, his actions lead Teru Mikami, a man selected by Light to kill criminals using another Death Note, to make a mistake that results in Light's capture by Near, the SPK and Japanese police. Seeing that Light has finally lost, he is killed when Ryuk writes his name in his own Death Note, just as the Shinigami had warned when they first met.\n\nIn the Japanese film series, Light Yagami is portrayed by Tatsuya Fujiwara, known for his role as Shuya Nanahara in \"Battle Royale\". In the films, he is portrayed as a distinguished, popular and intellectually-gifted college student, who has a disregard and frustration of the incapability of the law enforcement system to quell the rampant crime-wave around the world, which drives his motives to use the Death Note, to change the world into a utopian society without crime, under the alias of a god-like vigilante known as \"Kira\", much like his manga counterpart. However, some slight changes and modifications were made to the character. At the film's beginning, Light is a first-year law student at a university, instead of still being in high school as in the beginning of the manga and anime. Light's motives also slightly differ; in this version, he uses the Death Note mainly out of his frustration from the perceived failures of the Japanese justice system. Light, prior to his discovery of the Death Note, hacks into the government database and finds that the government secretly acknowledges that it is unable to prosecute many criminals. Also, Light discovers the Death Note in an alley during a rainy night after encountering an accquited felon named Takuo Shibuimaru in a night-club. Another difference is that Light meets Ryuk right after killing Shibuimaru with the Death Note. At the end of the first movie Light kills his girlfriend, Shiori Akino, and frames her death as a murder and reason to foster hatred for \"Kira\", in order to join the Kira investigation team as a result of their sympathy.\n\nLight relinquishes ownership of the Death Note to Kiyomi Takada. After Takada is caught, Light kills her to recover the Death Note, but it is taken by the investigation team. L states that he will test the 13-Day Rule, a fake Death Note rule designed to prove Light and Misa's innocence. Rem, knowing that L's actions will reveal Misa's identity as the 2nd Kira, writes both L and his handler: Watari's names in the Death Note. Light then proceeds to write his father's name in the book, manipulating his father to return the confiscated Death Note. Light confronts his father, but Soichiro does not die. The investigation team members, including L, reveal themselves. Having already written his own name in the Death Note, thus negating Rem's actions, L tells Light that he had just written in a fake note. Light tries to write on a hidden piece of Death Note, but is shot by Matsuda, an investigation team member. Light tells Ryuk to write the team's names, promising to show him many interesting things, and begins to laugh. He stops, however, when Ryuk shows him that he had written just one name: Light's. Light tries to stop Ryuk, but merely passes right through him. As Light begins to succumb to the effects of the Death Note, Ryuk takes this opportunity to reveal to him that humans that have used the Death Note are barred from entering either Heaven or Hell, instead spending eternity in nothingness. Light dies in his father's arms, begging him to believe that he acted as Kira to put the justice, which Soichiro had taught him since his childhood, into practice. \n\nSeveral years after Light's death, however, it is revealed in the sequel film \"\" that Light has secretly raised a son, Hikari Yagami (夜神光 \"Yagami Hikari\"), to inherit a Death Note and carry on Kira's legacy. As Hikari becomes of age, the boy is killed by Teru Mikami, his appointed guardian, over control of the notebook. Mikami is then killed by police officer Tsukuru Mishima who decides to use the notebook to continue Light's work in ridding the world of crime. During the course of the film, Mishima is eventually caught by police and he willingly turns himself in and the notebook to the authorities, thus ending Kira's legacy.\n\nNat Wolff portrays the character's counterpart, \"Light Turner\": a Seattle high school student, in the American film adaptation, as an intelligent yet quiet and socially-introverted teenager, who stumbles across the mystical Death Note and eventually decides to use the notebook's god-like abilities to commit a world-wide massacre, in order to change the world into a utopian society without crime, under the alias of a literal human deity: \"Kira\", while being hunted down by an elite task-force of law enforcement officials within Seattle City, led by an enigmatic international detective known as L and his own father, veteran Seattle detective: James Turner. Margaret Qualley portrays Mia Sutton (based on the sociopathic qualities of Light Yagami), Light's girlfriend who assists him in his activities as \"Kira\". In this adaptation, Light has vast character differences from his manga counterpart and does not have a sister and has lost his mother in a hit and run incident, which partially serves as his inspiration to operate as Kira. He has a close yet somewhat strained relationship with his father and while considered academically-gifted by peers and authorities, is not a popular student and is considered as a social outsider and lacks friends. Unlike his manga counterpart, he is also far less charismatic and confident, but more morally-driven and demonstrates a reluctance to murder innocents and law enforcement individuals attempting to capture him, while eventually demonstrating a more darker, colder, more confident and meticulous personality, towards the film's ending. Furthermore, instead of obtaining the notebook by chance, Ryuk deliberately hands Light the notebook, in order to entertain himself.\n\nAfter being enticed to kill a bully by Ryuk, Light murders the criminal who killed his mother. Along with Mia Sutton, his classmate and love interest, Light begins a crusade similar to his manga counterpart to rid the world of crime. However the pair eventually come to a disagreement on how they should deal with law enforcement targeting them, including L and Light's father James. After Mia kills Watari, L's handler, she schemes to steal the notebook from Light, but Light outmanuevers her and kills her and manages to concoct an elaborate plan through the Death Note, by manipulating a number of criminals to continue his activities as \"Kira\" through the notebook and inducing himself into a medical coma, which seemingly proves Light's innocence to the authorities. At the end of the film, James presents Light with evidence that he killed his mother's murderer and Light confesses to being Kira and reveals how he cleared himself of suspicion. Meanwhile, L, disgraced by his superiors due to failing to implicate Light and seeking to avenge Watari, considers killing Light with a hidden piece of the notebook he finds in Mia's room. The film ends without Light's fate being divulged.\n\nIn the 2015 drama, Masataka Kubota plays the role of Light Yagami. Similar to the Netflix adaptation, Light is portrayed as less charismatic, insecure and is initially hesitant to kill law enforcement. His relationship with his father Soichiro is also strained due to the death of his mother prior to the start of the series. However, in the later half of the series he grows to demonstrate the same level of ruthlessness, intellect and hubris as his manga counterpart.\n\nLike the Netflix adaption, Light does not obtain the notebook by chance and it is given to him by Ryuk in response to a confrontation with a bully. After again using the notebook to save his father from being held hostage, Light proceeds to use the notebook to kill criminals as Kira. In response to the killings, the detective L leads a police task force alongside Light's father Soichiro to capture Kira. Toward the end of the series, L and Soichiro see through Light's deception and each attempt to convince him to turn himself in. When Light refuses to relent, he is baited into confessing after L and Soichiro both sacrifice their lives. The information obtained from their deaths is relayed to the police task force, who ambush Light in a warehouse in a sting operation lead by L's successor Near. In a desperate attempt to help him evade capture, Light's accomplice Teru Mikami sets fire to the warehouse but Light is instead trapped by the fire and burns to death. \n\nIn , Light is portrayed by Kenji Urai and Hayato in the Japanese productions and Hong Kwang-ho and Han Ji-sang in the Korean productions.\n\nOhba described Light as a victim of the Death Note, with Light's life being \"ruined\" once he obtained it. According to Ohba, Light was \"a young man who could understand the pain of others\" when he first encountered the Death Note. Ohba said that if Ryuk never developed an interest in the human world, Light would have become \"one of the greatest police leaders in the world\" who, with L, worked against criminals. He added that he believed that debating whether Light's actions were good or evil is not \"very important\". Ohba said that he personally sees Light as a \"diabolical\" character. Obata said that Light was his second favorite human character and that he was not sure whether that was because he \"liked\" Light or because he drew \"such a diabolical character\" in a magazine for children.\n\nAccording to Ohba, Light sees Misa Amane, whom he uses as an accomplice, as a \"bad person\" who killed people, so he acts emotionally cold towards her and manipulates her, although he pretends to love her, and even says he will marry her. He is only stopped from killing her by the shinigami Rem, who threatens to kill him if she dies early or if he tries to kill her, despite her knowledge that doing so will cause her own death.\n\nAlthough Light originally had good intentions, he was \"very conceited\", with a \"warped ... desire to be godlike\", bearing love for his family, and intending to transform the world into \"a better place\". Ohba also states that Light, \"uncompromising\" when achieving his ideals, \"sullied\" himself by using the Death Note and that his actions \"may have been the result of the purity within him\" prior to obtaining the Death Note. \n\nThis purity is demonstrated in Light's personality shift after he temporarily relinquishes the Death Note to ward off suspicion. Losing his memories as Kira along with ownership of the notebook, Light demonstrates compassion, a reluctance to manipulate others and an intense unwillingness to kill. Once his memories return, however, he reverts back to his ruthless Kira persona and remains that way until his death. Nevertheless, Ohba states that Light never lost his love for his family since he viewed them as righteous people.\n\nDouglas Wolk of \"Salon\" describes Light as \"coldly manipulative\", \"egomaniacal\", and \"an unrepentant serial killer, a butcher on an enormous scale\" who is not \"a Freddy Krueger, a monster who represents pure evil, or a Patrick Bateman, a demonic symbol of his age\". Wolk describes Light as \"the good guy, more or less\" who genuinely believes that he holds \"the moral high ground\". When asked about which character was most similar to himself, Ohba indicated Near and \"maybe Light.\" Regarding Light, Ohba cited \"because I did well in school.\"\n\nTravis Fickett of \"IGN\" describes Light as a \"sociopath\". Tom S. Pepirium of IGN describes Light as \"brilliant, but disturbed\". Wolk describes Light's ideal world, a \"totalitarian\" place \"ruled by a propagandistic TV channel and an arbitrary secret executioner\". Wolk said that Ohba sometimes suggests that this world is \"in some ways a better, happier world than ours\". Jolyon Baraka Thomas describes Light's vision of justice as \"impure\": \"[His] supercilious attempt to save society from itself is both self-aggrandizing and cruel\". Toshiki Inoue, the series organizer for the \"Death Note\" anime, describes Light as a \"child whose wish happens to come true\".\n\nTom S. Pepirium of IGN said that he felt surprised when he learned that some viewers, while watching the series, wanted Light to emerge as the victor of the storyline; Pepirium added that his wife said that she was \"kinda rooting for Light\". Pepirium compared wanting Light to win to \"cheering for Kevin Spacey at the end of \"Seven\"\". Pepirium added that Brad Swaile, Light's English-language voice actor, \"nails\" the \"difficult\" task of making Light \"both likable and hated\". Jason Charpentier of \"The Anchor\" stated that Light's attributes and his role as a main character form \"part of what makes \"Death Note\" interesting\". Light was also listed 18th in IGN's 2009 best anime character of all-time list with writer Chris Mackenzie praising how Light is \"mesmerizing\". In 2014, he was placed seventh on IGN's list of greatest anime characters of all-time, with the cite stating that \"Light Yagami was the force that drove \"Death Note\" and made it a phenomenon\". He is frequently cited as being an anti-hero and sometimes a villain protagonist.\n\nTetsuro Araki, the director of the anime, said that he felt an urge to support and cheer for Light. Araki added that Light would have used and killed him if he was one of Light's friends, but the director still believed that Light is \"\"that\" interesting\" and therefore he would have felt an attraction towards Light.\n\nPauline Wong of \"OtakuZone\" had her opinions of the film portrayal of Light Yagami published in \"The Star\", a Malaysian newspaper. In it, Wong says that the \"very \"bishie\"-status-worthy\" Fujiwara portrayed Light with \"aplomb and near-perfection, right down to the evil little smile\". Kitty Sensei, quoted in the same Malaysian article, says that the portrayal of Light in the film is \"very faithful to the manga's\".\n\nTatsuya Fujiwara, the actor who portrayed Light in the films, said that he \"could understand\" Light's intentions to create a new world even though \"murder is a horrible thing\". Matsuyama describes L and Light as having \"such unique characters that they're impossible to understand\". Erika Toda, the actress who portrayed Misa Amane in the films, described Light's and Misa's actions as \"criminal\".\n"}
{"id": "154171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154171", "title": "List of heritage railways", "text": "List of heritage railways\n\nList of heritage railways is a comprehensive listing of heritage railways sorted by country, state or region. A heritage railway is a preserved or tourist railroad which is run as a tourist attraction, is usually but not always run by volunteers, and often seeks to re-create railway scenes of the past.\n\nThe entire remaining rail network of Albania can be considered as a heritage system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor a comprehensive list of heritage railways in France, see the article (French version of this article).\n\nFor a comprehensive list of heritage railways in Germany, see the article (German version of this article). The list includes railway museums that operate historic railway services.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor a list of heritage railways in the Republic of Ireland, see the article \"List of heritage railways in the Republic of Ireland\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote that most of the heritage railway operators in South Africa have their own depots where locomotives and coaches are kept and serviced, but run on state-owned railways.\n\n\nFor a list of heritage railways in New Zealand, see the article \"List of New Zealand railway museums and heritage lines\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48693868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693868", "title": "List of stories within The Malachite Box", "text": "List of stories within The Malachite Box\n\nThis is a list of the stories in Pavel Bazhov's collection The Malachite Box. The first edition, released on 28 January 1939, consisted of 14 stories, based on the oral lore of the miners and gold prospectors. After the initial publication, the author continuously added new stories to the collection. \n\n"}
{"id": "20290397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20290397", "title": "Māori poetry", "text": "Māori poetry\n\nTraditional Māori poetry was always sung or chanted, musical rhythms rather than linguistic devices served to distinguish it from prose. There is a large store of traditional chants and songs. Rhyme or assonance were not devices used by the Māori; only when a given text is sung or chanted will the metre become apparent. The lines are indicated by features of the music. The language of poetry tends to differ stylistically from prose. Typical features of poetic diction are the use of synonyms or contrastive opposites, and the repetition of key words. As with poetry in other languages: \"Archaic words are common, including many which have lost any specific meaning and acquired a religious mystique. Abbreviated, sometimes cryptic utterances and the use of certain grammatical constructions not found in prose are also common\" (Biggs 1966:447–448).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4725588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725588", "title": "National Theatre (Budapest)", "text": "National Theatre (Budapest)\n\nThe National Theatre, located in Budapest originally opened in 1837. Since then, it has occupied several locations, including the original building at Kerepesi Street, the \"People's Theatre\" at Blaha Lujza Square, as well as Hevesi Sándor Square, its longest temporary location. It currently occupies the National Theatre building, which opened March 15, 2002.\n\nThe concept of a national theatre in Budapest was born at the turn of the 18th-19th century, promoted by influential thinkers including Ferenc Kazinczy and Baron István Széchenyi. Széchenyi was a major figure in Hungary's reform. He dreamed of a great building on the bank of the Danube that would operate in the form of a joint-stock company. He proposed his plans in his 1832 pamphlet, \"A Magyar Játékszínről\".\n\nThe Hungarian Parliament made the decision to move forward with a national theatre in its 41st article of 1836. Led by Antal Grassalkovich, construction began in 1835 on Kerepesi Street. With a company assembled in the previous four years by András Fáy and Gábor Döbrentei (playing in the Court Theatre of Buda), the theatre opened on August 22, 1837, under the name \"Pesti Magyar Színház\" (Hungarian Theatre of Pest). Its goals were to give birth to the national drama and to showcase classics of world literature. Nationalized in 1840, the name was changed to the National Theatre, which it still holds today.\n\nThe National Theatre building was demolished in the 1900s. The company moved to the \"People's Theatre\" at Blaha Lujza Square in 1908. In the following decades, the company was only a tenant of \"People's Theatre\", and the building's state continually deteriorated. In 1963, authorities decided to demolish it, citing metro line construction as the reasoning. Operation ceased one year later, and the building was demolished on April 23, 1965. The company transferred to the renovated \"Petőfi Theatre\" (today is known as Thália), in Nagymező Street. Two years later, it relocated again to the former \"Magyar Theatre\" in Hevesi Sándor Square.\n\nAfter the demolition of the \"People's Theatre,\" a proposal was made to build the new theater in the City Park, at Felvonulási Square. An international design contest for the new theatre was held in 1965. No first place prize was awarded, and instead the second place prize was shared between the plans of Miklós Hofer and Jan Bogusławski - Bohdan Golebiewski. The planning, led by Hofer, stretched on for the better part of two decades. The building permit was finally granted in 1985, but the construction work went no further than chopping down a few trees. In 1988, a tender was held for a new location and Engels Square (today Erzsébet Square) was chosen. Another decade passed without any progress. In 1996, Parliament agreed to move on to the next phase. However, the project was delayed again due to political quarrels over the next several years. The project resumed again with architect Ferenc Bán being declared the winner, but the newly elected government stopped the work, finding it too costly.\n\nIn 1999, ministry commissioner György Schwajda commissioned Mária Siklós to make plans for a building at a new location Essenza, the bank of the Danube. This decision was met with anger from the Hungarian architect community, and a bid was held. György Vadász's won the bid. He did not modify Siklós's plans further, and construction began with Siklós's plans on September 14, 2000. The new National Theatre opened on March 15, 2002, Hungary's National Day.\n\nThe new National Theatre is on the bank of the Danube in the Ferencváros district, situated on Soroksári road, Grand Boulevard, and Rákóczi Bridge. It is a five minute walk from the Csepel HÉV (suburban railway). The Memorial of the Old National Theatre is located on the National Theatre grounds.\n\nThe theatre is 20,844 square meters (224,362.95 square feet), including an open-air stage. Functionally, it can be separated into three parts:\nThe nearby Palace of Arts was opened in 2005.\n\nGyörgy Schwajda became the first director of the theater. He signed the \"company's core\" and founded the title \"Actor of the Nation\" with a financial reward. He resigned in the summer of 2002. After his resignation, Thomas Jordan won the bid to become the new director. He organized the public from the countryside and debuted the many counties of Hungary on stage. Jordan stepped down in 2008 and Robert Alföldi took over. Where Jordan advocated support for the nation-rearing, folk theatre, Alföldi opposed its efforts. In 2013, Attila Vidnyanszky missed an opportunity to lead the National Theater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31463528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31463528", "title": "North Halmahera languages", "text": "North Halmahera languages\n\nThe North Halmahera languages are the Papuan languages of Halmahera and neighboring islands in Indonesia. The best known North Halmaheran language is Ternate (50 000 native speakers), which is a regional lingua franca and which, along with Tidore, were the languages of the rival medieval Ternate and Tidore sultanates, famous for their role in the spice trade.\n\nThe classification used here is that of Voorhoeve 1988.\nWest Makian is divergent, perhaps due to Austronesian influence. It was once classified as an Austronesian language.\n\nThere is a degree of mutual intelligibility between the Galela–Tobelo languages, and Voorhoeve 1988 considered them dialects of a language he called \"Northeast Halmaheran\", though most speakers consider them to be distinct languages. \"Ethnologue\" adds Kao, which it classifies as Sahu but notes may be a marginal dialect of Pagu.\n"}
{"id": "26447533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26447533", "title": "Official bilingualism in the public service of Canada", "text": "Official bilingualism in the public service of Canada\n\nBecause Canada has, for over two centuries, contained both English- and French-speakers, the question of the language used in the administration of public affairs has always been a sensitive issue.\n\nAmong the aspect of this issue that have excited public attention from time to time are: \n\nThe issue of proportional hiring and promotion of speakers of both official languages has been an issue in Canadian politics since before Confederation. Members of each linguistic group have, at different times in the country’s history, complained of injustice when their group have been represented, in public service hiring and promotion, in numbers less than would be justified by their proportion of the national population.\n\nFor the greater part of Canada’s history, French-speakers were underrepresented, and English-speakers were overrepresented in the ranks of the public service. This disproportion became more pronounced in the more senior ranks of the Public Service. However, this trend has reversed itself in recent decades. Today, French is the first official language of 23% of Canada's population, with 29.2% of Public Service of Canada employees identifying French as their first official language, including 32% of management-level jobs.\n\nThe first high-profile complaint of preferential hiring took place in 1834. One of the Ninety-Two Resolutions of the Lower Canadian House of Assembly drew attention to the fact that French Canadians, who at the time were 88% of the colony's population, held only 30% of the posts in the 157-member colonial civil service. Moreover, the resolution stated, French Canadians were, \"for the most part, appointed to the inferior and less lucrative offices, and most frequently only obtaining even them, by becoming the dependent of those [British immigrants] who hold the higher and the more lucrative offices...\"\n\nWith the advent of responsible government in the 1840s, the power to make civil service appointments was transferred to elected politicians, who had a strong incentive to ensure that French Canadian voters did not feel that they were being frozen out of hiring and promotions. Although no formal reform of the hiring and promotion process was ever undertaken, the patronage-driven hiring process seems to have produced a more equitable representation of the two language groups. In 1863, the public service of the united Province of Canada (which included both of the former colonies of Lower Canada and Upper Canada) had grown to include 450 officials at its administrative headquarters. Of these, 161 persons, or about 36%, were French Canadians. However, French-speaking civil servants accounted for only 20% of the total payroll, suggesting that they were mainly confined to the lower ranks of the colonial administration.\n\nIn the period between 1867 and the turn of the Twentieth Century, French-Canadians made up about one-third of the Canadian population, and seem also to have represented about one-third of civil service appointments at junior levels, although they had only about half that much representation at most senior level. In general, it seems to have been the case that throughout the entire period between Confederation and the introduction of merit-based hiring and promotion in 1919, the percentage of French-speakers in the civil service relatively closely matched their percentage of the Canadian population because French-Canadians occupied a more-or-less proportionate share of cabinet posts, and they appointed public servants who were personally loyal to them. This so-called \"spoils system\" ensured a rough equity between members of the two language groups. A quarter-century after this system had been abolished, it was summarized as follows in a submission to the 1946 Royal Commission on Administrative Classifications in the Civil Service:\n\nIn 1918, just before the reforms began, the percentage of francophones in the federal civil service stood at just under 22%. The drop in the percentage of French-speakers was in part due to the fact that the proportion of Canadians who were French-speaking was gradually declining; in the 1921 census, persons of French origin were down to 27.9% of the population. As well, the Unionist government then in power had almost no representation in Quebec, which meant that for several years there were no French-Canadian ministers appointing and promoting their fellow French-speakers.\n\nThe percentage of French-speakers would, however, drop much further as a result of the replacement of a patronage-based appointment system with a merit-based system that was largely based upon the ability to perform efficiently in English. By 1946, according to figures presented in the House of Commons, native speakers of French had declined to only 13% of public service posts. At the time, French-speakers represented slightly under 30% of the Canadian population. This seems to have represented the low point, in terms of inequitably low representation for Francophones within the Public Service; by 1964, French-speakers had risen to 21.5% of the Public Service (which itself had grown to 137,000 officials, meaning that 29,500 French-speakers were employed by the federal government). Although this represented a substantial improvement, French-speakers at this time represented about 28% of Canada’s population, and therefore continued to be underrepresented. Moreover, French-Canadians continued to be grouped at the bottom of the seniority scale: They represented 23.7% of junior employees earning less than $4,000 per year, but only 10.4% of senior officials with earnings in the highest category (over $15,000).\n\nBy the early 1960s, the issue of Canada’s seemingly perpetual inability to create an equitable distribution of jobs in the country’s rapidly expanding public service was becoming a key grievance underlying Quebec nationalism. In 1961, a Royal Commission studying the structure of the federal bureaucracy organized a special committee to study the issue of bilingualism within the Public Service. The Commission’s 1962 report included recommendations that the federal government “adopt active measures to develop bilingual capacities among its employees on a selective basis,” and that it more actively recruit qualified French Canadians who would have the potential to advance to the senior ranks of the federal administration.\n\nIn part on the basis of this recommendation, the government of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson established a Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, which made language reform within the public service one of its highest priorities. Book III of the Royal Commission’s multi-volume report, published in 1969, recommended a radical redesign of the Public Service of Canada, in order to establish full equality between the two official languages in the federal administration, and a permanently equitable distribution of jobs, at all levels of seniority, between French-speaking and English-speaking Canadians.\n\nSince the report of the Royal Commission in 1969, the percentage of Francophones in the public service of Canada has increased, and the percentage of Anglophones has decreased. Both Francophones and Anglophones are overrepresented in the public service due to the number of Canadians who speak neither English nor French.\n\nWhen looking at public service positions in various regions of the country, the same trend has occurred; however it is much less pronounced outside of the national capital region surrounding Ottawa, Ontario and Gatineau, Quebec.\n\nFrancophone representation in management positions in the Public Service has increased from 10.4% in 1964 to 18% in 1978 and to 30% in 2007. Francophones are now overrepresented in all Public service categories, however the degree to which this representation has occurred varies by occupation.\nPositions in the public service are classified in four ways, depending on the required linguistic capacity of the candidate for the position: bilingual imperative, English essential, French essential or either French or English essential. The bilingual imperative category is further broken down into the level of both languages the candidate is required to speak. Since 1989 there has been a sharp increase in the number of positions classified as ‘bilingual imperative’ and a sharp decrease in the number of positions open to unilingual Canadians.\n\nToday, the built-in barriers to the hiring and promotion of francophones have been overcome. French-speakers ceased to be underrepresented in the Public Service in 1978, and the percentage of public servants who are francophones has been growing steadily ever since. At the management level, French-speakers ceased to be under-represented in 1995. There is now a growing over-representation of persons with French as their first official language in the Public Service. In 2007, francophones occupied 31.5% of positions in the core public administration, and 26.9% in institutions subject to the \"Official Languages Act\", overall. Bilingualism is desirable for politicians; John Turner's fluency in both English and French, for example, helped him become leader of the Liberal Party and Prime Minister in 1984.\n\nIn 2007, positions in the core public administration broke down as follows:\n\n\"Bilingual\" - 40.2%\n\"English Essential\" - 51.2%\n\"French Essential\" - 4.0%\n\"English or French Essential\" - 4.4%\n\nIn his 2008-09 annual report, the Commissioner for Official Languages wrote, \"A vast majority of federal institutions have yet to create a workplace where their employees feel comfortable using either official language and are encouraged to do so.\" He identified the following problem areas:\n\n\nA lack of language proficiency on the part of some managers may contribute to the situation. The Commissioner wrote in his report: \"Some managers hinder the use of the minority language, either because they are not proficient enough in the language or because they hesitate to use it. Similarly, Francophones fearing that their professional contribution will not be fully recognized tend to work in English when their superiors do not use French daily and do not stress the importance of using it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41555141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41555141", "title": "Otokonoko", "text": "Otokonoko\n\nIn contemporary Japanese culture, otokonoko (男の娘 \"Otoko no ko\", \"male daughter\" or \"male girl\"), or otoko no musume, are men who cross-dress as women.\n\nThe term originated in Japanese manga and Internet culture in the 2000s, but the concept reflects a broad range of earlier traditions and examples of male drag-wearing in Japan, such as \"onnagata\" in kabuki theater, and in the career of cross-dressing entertainer Akihiro Miwa. \"Otokonoko\" is a play on the word 男の子, also pronounced \"otokonoko\" and meaning \"boy\". Its popularity increased around 2009, with the rise of dedicated maid cafés, fashion stores, cosmetic products, and a range of popular media in the \"otaku\" culture. It is often combined with the cosplay of female fictional characters by men.\n\nThe concept of \"otokonoko\" does not directly correspond to a particular sexual identity or gender identity. \"Otokonoko\" may be of any sexual orientation.\n\nBy extension, \"otokonoko\" is also a genre of media and fiction about cross-dressing men, aimed at a male audience. It is part of the spectrum of \"shōnen\" entertainment (targeted at young boys) and \"seinen\" entertainment (targeted at young men), and often contains erotic or romantic elements. \"Otokonoko\" characters have also begun to appear in mainstream Japanese popular entertainment such as manga, anime and video games.\n"}
{"id": "42385432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42385432", "title": "Passion gap", "text": "Passion gap\n\nPassion gap or Cape Flats smile is a dental modification originating in Cape Flats, Cape Town, South Africa in which people deliberately remove the upper front teeth (maxillary incisors) for fashion and status. The practice is popular among lower class Coloureds and has occasionally been done by White and Chinese South Africans in the area.\n\nFor many years, Cape Town residents had their upper front teeth extracted due to regional cultural fashion. A 2003 study performed by the University of Cape Town found that the main reasons for extracting teeth were fashion and peer pressure followed by gangsterism and medical purposes.\n\nThe dental modification is particularly popular in the Cape Flats section of Cape Town. In an interview of 2,167 Coloured people in the Western Cape, 41% have had teeth extracted. Of those who have undergone the procedure, 44.8% were male. Children as young as 11 have had their front teeth extracted for aesthetics.\n\nOther reasons for a passion gap include the belief of improved oral sex and kissing. Another belief is that fishermen extract their teeth to whistle louder to one another. Though the practice is still popular in the region today, perception is changing. Some employers specifically forbid the display of a passion gap.\n\nDental modification in Southern Africa has been documented for 1500 years. Other forms of dental modification are more prevalent in the northern regions of Africa. Deliberate incisor removal in Western Cape remains an exception.\n\nThe current trend of passion gaps started in the 1940s.\n\n\nWhile there are no specific medical problems caused by aesthetic dental extraction, the passion gap is often described by anaesthesiologists in the region as a potential cause of difficult intubation. Lack of normal dentition is known to be associated with difficulty in managing the airway, and a passion gap can result in the laryngoscope blade moving into the artificial gap between the teeth, reducing the available space to pass an endotracheal tube and running the risk of lacerating the entrotracheal tube cuff on the remaining adjacent incisor or canine tooth.\n\n"}
{"id": "3306735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306735", "title": "Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine Flag", "text": "Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine Flag\n\nThe Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine Flag () is the pledge to the flag of the Philippines. It is one of two national pledges, the other being the Patriotic Oath, which is the Philippine national pledge.\n\nThe Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine Flag is recited at flag ceremonies immediately after the Patriotic Oath or, if the Patriotic Oath is not recited, after the national anthem.\n\nThe pledge was legalized under Executive Order No. 343, finalized by the National Commission for Culture and the Arts from a draft prepared by the Commission on the Filipino Language, approved by then-President Fidel V. Ramos on Independence Day (June 12), 1996, and subsequently by the Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines, or Republic Act No. 8491. The law requires the pledge to be recited while standing with the right hand with palm open raised shoulder high. The law makes no statement of what language the pledge must be recited in, but the pledge is written (and therefore recited) in Filipino.\n\nChapter III, Section 40 of Republic Act no. 8491, popularly known as the \"Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines\", specifies the national motto of the Philippines, which echoes the last four lines of the pledge of allegiance.\n\nIn English translation, the motto is \"For God, People, Nature and Country\".\n\nThe Philippine Motto can also be read as the oath at the Text of the Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine flag.\n\n"}
{"id": "7287977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287977", "title": "Public domain music", "text": "Public domain music\n\nMusic is considered to be in the public domain if it meets any of the following criteria:\n\nIf a piece of music does not fall within public domain and is under copyright, then it is unlawful to reproduce, perform, distribute, or create a new version of that music without a proper license. Under compulsory license laws, some of these actions may in fact be lawful, but the infringing party would then be liable for any royalty the copyright holder may charge for the use of their work.\n\nIn the United States, any musical works published before 1922, in addition to those voluntarily placed in public domain, exist in the public domain. In most other countries, music generally enters the public domain in a period of fifty to seventy-five years after the composer's death. (Public domain rights must be verified for each individual country.) It is important to note the distinction between \"musical works\" (sheet music and other compositions) and \"sound recordings\" (audio files, CDs, records), as virtually all sound recordings will remain copyrighted until 2067 unless it is explicitly placed into the public domain by its creators or rights holders, or it is made by an employee or officer of the United States government acting in an official capacity. Before the Music Modernization Act, the status of copyright on sound recordings in the United States from before such copyrights were nationalized 1972 was somewhat nebulous. The copyrights granted prior to that were considered a state issue and, even if no state law provided for it, some courts established an extra-legal common law copyright, the exact nature of which was inconsistently applied.\n\nIn the European Union and Canada, sound recordings were copyrighted for fifty years until 2013. On January 1, 2013, the Beatles' single \"Love Me Do\" entered the public domain. As of November 2013, European sound recordings are now protected for 70 years, which is not retroactive. In 2015, Canada changed the copyright length to 70 years.\n\nOn February 8, 2016, a court ruled that \"Happy Birthday to You\" was in the public domain, and Warner/Chappell Music was required to pay $14 million to the song's licensees.\n\nIn October 2018, president Donald Trump signed the Music Modernization Act, which will bring sound recordings into the public domain either 95 years after they were released or 120 years after they were recorded, whichever comes first. Songs recorded before 1923 will expire on October 11, 2021; recordings made between 1923 and 1946 will be protected for 100 years after release; recordings made between 1947 and 1956 will be protected for 110 years; and all recordings made fron 1957 to February 15, 1972 will have their protection terminate on February 15, 2067.\n\nInherently, all historical musical works (pre-1922) are public domain. Classical sheet music, for example, is widely available for free use and reproduction. Some more current works are also available for free use through public works projects such as Internet Archive. This and similar projects aim to preserve and make readily available thousands of public domain music files, many of which have been recorded by projects dedicated to recording music for public use.\n\nMusic on the Creative Commons:\n\nThe Creative Commons is a nonprofit organization created for the purpose of housing the public domain. The Commons allows copyright owners to dedicate their works to the public domain either immediately or, with the \"Founders' Copyright\" (originally created in the first copyright law in 1790), can obtain an exclusive license for 14 or 28 years (if renewed) of copyright protection in exchange for selling their work to the Commons for one dollar after that protection has expired. Copyright owners can fill out an online application at https://creativecommons.org/ in order to apply.\n\nPublic domain musical works and recordings can be loaded onto the Wikimedia Commons website.\n\nFor music, the involved rights are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9454227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454227", "title": "River of Gods", "text": "River of Gods\n\nRiver of Gods is a 2004 science fiction novel by British writer Ian McDonald. It depicts a futuristic India in 2047, a century after its independence from Britain, characterized both by ancient traditions and advanced technologies such as artificial intelligences, robots and nanotechnology. The novel won the British Science Fiction Award in 2004 and was nominated for a Hugo.\n\nThe novel follows a number of different characters' viewpoints on and around the date of 15 August 2047, the centenary of India's partition and independence from the colonial British Raj. This future India has become balkanized into a number of smaller competing states, such as Awadh, Bharat, and Bangla. The global information network is now inhabited by artificial intelligences, phonetically called \"aeais\" in the novel, of varying levels of intelligence.\n\nAeais higher than level 2.5 (able to pass the Turing test and imitate humans) are banned, and their destruction (\"excommunication\") is the responsibility of \"Krishna Cops\", like Mr. Nandha. While some pockets of the subcontinent are still steeped in ancient tradition and values, mainstream culture is replete with aeais in TV entertainment and robotic swarms in defense. During such a time, Ranjit Ray steps down from his control of Ray Power, a key energy company, and the responsibility falls on his son Vishram Ray. The playboy Vishram is struggling to make it on his own as a stand-up comedian in Scotland when he is flown back to Varanasi to assume this role, for which he finds himself terribly ill-equipped but eventually surprisingly effective. He learns that his company is working on harvesting zero-point energy from other universes, and sees the particle collider built by his father with the help of Odeco, a clandestine investment firm.\n\nAfter a prolonged drought, a severe water shortage threatens to jeopardize the peace between the subcontinental states. To avert this crisis, governments are melting glaciers and modifying natural systems. To take advantage of the unrest, a Hindu fundamentalist leader named N.K Jeevanji organises a \"rath yatra\" on a spectacular juggernaut. He starts releasing key information to the press via Najia Askarzadah, an ambitious Swedish-Afghan reporter with a desire to be part of history as it is being made.\n\nLisa Durnau notices an apocalyptic crisis brewing in Alterre, a simulated evolution of earth created by AI scientist Thomas Lull, who is currently hiding in a South Indian coastal village. While Lisa is sent into space to investigate an asteroid, Thomas Lull runs into Aj, a girl with mysterious powers that allow her to see into people's lives, pasts and futures. He decides to follow her and protect her during her quest to find her own true identity, but it is soon revealed that Aj's powers extend beyond mere mortals, when she brings a robot army to a halt with the raise of a hand.\n\nTal is a beautiful nute (of neutral gender) involved in the designing team of India's greatest \"soapi\", \"Town & Country\", some of the main stars of which are not human actors, but aeais. Tal falls prey to a conspiracy that compromises the career of Shaheen Badoor Khan, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister Sajida Rana, leading to her assassination and the fall of the government. All this leads to riots and popular fury against Muslims and transsexuals across Varanasi.\n\nLisa Durnau discovers that at the center of the mysterious asteroid is an 8-billion-year-old grey sphere, possibly a black hole remnant, or an alien artifact from another civilization. This \"Tabernacle\" communicates a message to the scientists, and this leads Lisa to India to find Thomas Lull, who alone can explain this phenomenon.\n\nThe title refers to the sacred Ganges River, which is analogous to the unceasing flow of time in Hindu mythology. Characters visit the river during the novel, and a large portion of the action takes place in the holy city of Varanasi, which is traditionally associated with the Ganges, and is the focal point in the story.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30889842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30889842", "title": "Sainsbury Research Unit", "text": "Sainsbury Research Unit\n\nThe Sainsbury Research Unit is a research department at the University of East Anglia, in the UK.\n\nThe Sainsbury Research Unit (SRU) had its origins in 1984, when Sir Robert Sainsbury and Lady Lisa Sainsbury had the idea of creating a department in the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts to be an academic complement to the African, Oceanic and American material in their collection.\n\nThe SRU began operations in 1988 with two faculty, two library/support staff and three MA students. By 2011 there were six faculty, six library/support staff, eight MAs, fifteen research students, visiting fellows, research associates and many dozens of alumni contributing to its fields of study. \n\nThe SRU hosts symposia, workshops and research projects and has a dedicated library also housed in the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182989", "title": "Salmacida Spolia", "text": "Salmacida Spolia\n\nSalmacida Spolia was the last masque performed at the English Court before the outbreak of the English Civil War. Written by Sir William Davenant, with costumes, sets, and stage effects designed by Inigo Jones and with music by Lewis Richard, it was performed at Whitehall Palace on 21 January 1640.\n\nIn English, the title means \"Salmacian spoils,\" and refers to an ancient Greek legend: a band of barbarians pillaging the Greek city of Halicarnassus in Asia Minor are pacified and civilized by drinking from the fountain of Salmacis. The masque was intended to convey a message of yielding and pacification, because Charles I had just ended his eleven-year period of personal rule and called for a new session of Parliament. In an effort to create an amicable atmosphere for the coming Parliamentary session, several leading aristocratic members of the Parliamentary party were cast in the masque, including Francis Russell, 4th Earl of Bedford, and Philip Herbert, 4th Earl of Pembroke. (This effort at political theatre quickly proved useless: the Parliament that followed was the famous Short Parliament.)\n\nThe masque was unique in that both Charles I and his queen, Henrietta Maria, performed in it; the Queen's mother, Marie de' Medici, was in the audience. In the masque, The King \"personated\" the role of Philogenes (\"lover of the people\"), a good but misunderstood ruler. Philogenes endures a fierce tempest that features the spirit of Discord, to reach an ensuing prosperous calm. A chariot descends from the cloudy heavens, carrying the personifications Concord and the Good Genius of Great Britain. The Queen, pregnant at the time, also descends from the heavens, \"in a transparent brightness of thin exhalations, such as the gods are feigned to descend in.\"\n\nA complex anti-masque featured, among other characters, quack doctors offering \"cures\" that can only make the chaos greater—for example, \"Essence of dissimulation to enforce Love\" and \"An Opiade of the spirit of Muskadine taken in good quantity to bedward, to make one forget his Creditors.\" The anti-masque figures, as shown in Jones's surviving sketches, were \"bizarrely dressed, physically deformed, and even obscene...one of them is equipped with an enormous erect penis...\" The King dispels evil influences from a \"golden throne surrounded by palm trees and heroic statues.\"\n\nThe masque featured elaborate dancing, and the sophisticated special effects that were Jones's specialty: for example,\n\nThe masque concluded with an idealized cityscape of London, replete with \"magnificent buildings,\" and with another of Jones's famous and stunning cloudscapes, \"a heaven opened full of deities.\"\n\nThe royal couple were highly pleased with the masque, and danced it again on the next Shrove Tuesday. The public response, such as there was among the restricted audience, appears to have been less positive, as contemporary witnesses reported more \"disorder\" among the crowd than usual. An element of negativity in the masque's reception was comprehensible, since it attributes the disorder of the realm to the stubbornness of the King's subjects (\"the people's giddy fury\"), and hints that the royal power won't always be held in check.\n\nDavenant later adapted aspects of \"Salmacida Spolia\" to create his famous \"The Siege of Rhodes,\" the \"first English opera.\"\n\nAs was often the case, the masque was published in quarto soon after its performance, in this instance by the bookseller Thomas Walkley. It was reprinted in a duodecimo volume in 1750, by William Rufus Chetwood. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31139738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31139738", "title": "School Lands", "text": "School Lands\n\nSchool Lands are land grants established in support of education. Support for public education in the United States predates the constitution; two years before the adoption of the United States Constitution of 1787, the Congress of the Confederation provided support for public schooling by establishing the land grants in the Land Ordinance of May 20, 1785 which granted Section 16 (one square mile) of every township to be used for public education: \"There shall be reserved the Lot No. 16, of every township, for the maintenance of public schools within said township.\"\n\nIn the land ordinance, the \"township\" is not a civil township but a surveying unit: a six mile by six mile square, divided into 36 one square mile sections. The one square mile \"Section 16\" is located near the center of the township. (For states surveyed under the federal rectangular system, survey townships and civil townships usually have the same boundaries, but there are many exceptions.)\n\nThe School Lands are part of the Ohio Lands, comprising land grants in Ohio from the United States federal government for public schools. According to the \"Official Ohio Lands Book\", \"by 1920, 73,155,075 acres of public land had been given by the federal government to the public land states in support of public schooling.\"\n\nIn the Land Ordinance of 1785 provision was also made by land grant for higher education (the College Lands).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52990712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52990712", "title": "School of Paris (Middle Ages)", "text": "School of Paris (Middle Ages)\n\nSchool of Paris refers to the many manuscript illuminators, whose identities are mostly unknown, who made Paris an internationally important centre of illumination throughout the Romanesque and Gothic periods of the Middle Ages, and for some time into the Renaissance. The most famous of these artists were Master Honoré, Jean Pucelle and Jean Fouquet. \n\nThe Limbourg brothers, originally from the Netherlands, also spent time in Paris, as well as Burgundy and Bourges, but their style is not typical of the School of Paris of the day. \n\nMany of the painters in Parisian workshops were women.\n\nMaster of Robert Gaguin\n\n"}
{"id": "29802394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29802394", "title": "Social history of viruses", "text": "Social history of viruses\n\nThe social history of viruses describes the influence of viruses and viral infections on human history. Epidemics caused by viruses began when human behaviour changed during the Neolithic period, around 12,000 years ago, when humans developed more densely populated agricultural communities. This allowed viruses to spread rapidly and subsequently to become endemic. Viruses of plants and livestock also increased, and as humans became dependent on agriculture and farming, diseases such as potyviruses of potatoes and rinderpest of cattle had devastating consequences.\n\nSmallpox and measles viruses are among the oldest that infect humans. Having evolved from viruses that infected other animals, they first appeared in humans in Europe and North Africa thousands of years ago. The viruses were later carried to the New World by Europeans during the time of the Spanish Conquests, but the indigenous people had no natural resistance to the viruses and millions of them died during epidemics. Influenza pandemics have been recorded since 1580, and they have occurred with increasing frequency in subsequent centuries. The pandemic of 1918–19, in which 40–50 million died in less than a year, was one of the most devastating in history.\n\nLouis Pasteur and Edward Jenner were the first to develop vaccines to protect against viral infections. The nature of viruses remained unknown until the invention of the electron microscope in the 1930s, when the science of virology gained momentum. In the 20th century many diseases both old and new were found to be caused by viruses. There were epidemics of poliomyelitis that were only controlled following the development of a vaccine in the 1950s. HIV is one of the most pathogenic new viruses to have emerged in centuries. Although scientific interest in them arose because of the diseases they cause, most viruses are beneficial. They drive evolution by transferring genes across species, play important roles in ecosystems and are essential to life.\nOver the past 50,000–100,000 years, as modern humans increased in numbers and dispersed throughout the world, new infectious diseases emerged, including those caused by viruses. Earlier, humans lived in small, isolated communities, and most epidemic diseases did not exist. Smallpox, which is the most lethal and devastating viral infection in history, first emerged among agricultural communities in India about 11,000 years ago. The virus, which only infected humans, probably descended from the poxviruses of rodents. Humans probably came into contact with these rodents, and some people became infected by the viruses they carried. When viruses cross this so-called \"species barrier\", their effects can be severe, and humans may have had little natural resistance. Contemporary humans lived in small communities, and those who succumbed to infection either died or developed immunity. This acquired immunity is only passed down to offspring temporarily, by antibodies in breast milk and other antibodies that cross the placenta from the mother's blood to the unborn child's. Therefore, sporadic outbreaks probably occurred in each generation. In about 9000 BC, when many people began to settle on the fertile flood plains of the River Nile, the population became dense enough for the virus to maintain a constant presence because of the high concentration of susceptible people. Other epidemics of viral diseases that depend on large concentrations of people, such as mumps, rubella and polio, also first occurred at this time.\n\nThe Neolithic age, which began in the Middle East in about 9500 BC, was a time when humans became farmers. This agricultural revolution embraced the development of monoculture and presented an opportunity for the rapid spread of several species of plant viruses. The divergence and spread of sobemoviruses – southern bean mosaic virus – date from this time. The spread of the potyviruses of potatoes, and other fruits and vegetables, began about 6,600 years ago.\n\nAbout 10,000 years ago the humans who inhabited the lands around the Mediterranean basin began to domesticate wild animals. Pigs, cattle, goats, sheep, horses, camels, cats and dogs were all kept and bred in captivity. These animals would have brought their viruses with them. The transmission of viruses from animals to humans can occur, but such zoonotic infections are rare and subsequent human-to-human transmission of animal viruses is even rarer, although there are notable exceptions such as influenza. Most viruses are species-specific and would have posed no threat to humans. The rare epidemics of viral diseases originating in animals would have been short-lived because the viruses were not fully adapted to humans and the human populations were too small to maintain the chains of infection.\n\nOther, more ancient, viruses have been less of a threat. Herpes viruses first infected the ancestors of modern humans over 80 million years ago. Humans have developed a tolerance to these viruses, and most are infected with at least one species. Records of these milder virus infections are rare, but it is likely that early hominids suffered from colds, influenza and diarrhoea caused by viruses just as humans do today. More recently evolved viruses cause epidemics and pandemics – and it is these that history records. The influenza virus is one that seems to have crossed the species barrier from pigs to ducks and water fowl and hence to humans. It is possible that a fatal plague in the Middle East at the time of the late 18th Dynasty was associated with this transmission at Amarna.\n\nAmong the earliest records of a viral infection is an Egyptian stele thought to depict an Egyptian priest from the 18th Dynasty (1580–1350 BC) with a foot drop deformity characteristic of a poliovirus infection. The mummy of Siptah – a ruler during the 19th Dynasty – shows signs of poliomyelitis, and that of Ramesses V and some other Egyptian mummies buried over 3000 years ago show evidence of smallpox. There was an epidemic of smallpox in Athens in 430 BC, in which a quarter of the Athenian army and many of the city's civilians died from the infection.\n\nMeasles is an old disease, but it was not until the 10th century that the Persian physician Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (865–925) – known as \"Rhazes\" – first identified it. Rhazes used the Arabic name \"hasbah\" for measles. It has had many other names including \"rubeola\" from the Latin word \"rubeus\", \"red\", and \"morbilli\", \"small plague\". The close similarities between measles virus, canine distemper virus and rinderpest virus have given rise to speculation that measles was first transmitted to humans from domesticated dogs or cattle. The measles virus appears to have fully diverged from the then-widespread rinderpest virus by the 12th century.\n\nA measles infection confers lifelong immunity. Therefore, the virus requires a high population density to become endemic, and this probably did not occur in the Neolithic age. Following the emergence of the virus in the Middle East, it reached India by 2500 BC. Measles was so common in children at the time that it was not recognised as a disease. In Egyptian hieroglyphs it was described as a normal stage of human development.\nOne of the earliest descriptions of a virus-infected plant can be found in a poem written by the Japanese Empress Kōken (718–770), in which she describes a plant in summer with yellowing leaves. The plant, later identified as \"Eupatorium lindleyanum\", is often infected with tomato yellow leaf curl virus.\n\nThe rapidly growing population of Europe and the rising concentrations of people in its towns and cities became a fertile ground for many infectious and contagious diseases, of which the Black Death – a bacterial infection – is probably the most notorious. Except for smallpox and influenza, documented outbreaks of infections now known to be caused by viruses were rare. Rabies, a disease that had been recognised for over 4000 years, was rife in Europe, and continued to be so until the development of a vaccine by Louis Pasteur in 1886. The average life expectancy in Europe during the Middle Ages was 35 years; 60% of children died before the age of 16, many of them during their first 6 years of life. Physicians – what few there were – relied as much on astrology as they did on their limited medical knowledge. Some treatments for infections consisted of ointments prepared from cats that had been roasted in hedgehog fat. Among the plethora of diseases that caused childhood death were measles, influenza and smallpox. The Crusades and the Muslim conquests aided the spread of smallpox, which was the cause of frequent epidemics in Europe following its introduction to the continent between the fifth and seventh centuries.\n\nMeasles was endemic throughout the highly populated countries of Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. In England the disease, then called \"mezils\", was first described in the 13th century, and it was probably one of the 49 plagues that occurred between 526 and 1087.\nRinderpest, which is caused by a virus closely related to measles virus, is a disease of cattle known since Roman times. The disease, which originated in Asia, was first brought to Europe by the invading Huns in 370. Later invasions of Mongols, led by Genghis Khan and his army, started pandemics in Europe in 1222, 1233 and 1238. The infection subsequently reached England following the importation of cattle from the continent. At the time rinderpest was a devastating disease with a mortality rate of 80–90%. The resulting loss of cattle caused famine.\n\nA short time after Henry Tudor's victory at the Battle of Bosworth on 22 August 1485, his army suddenly went down with \"the English sweat\", which contemporary observers described as a new disease. The disease, which was unusual in that it mainly affected the affluent, might have originated in France where Henry VII had recruited soldiers for his army. An epidemic hit London in the hot summer of 1508. Victims died within a day, and there were deaths throughout the city. The streets were deserted apart from carts transporting bodies, and King Henry declared the city off limits except for physicians and apothecaries. The disease spread to Europe, arriving in Hamburg in July 1529 where one to two thousand victims died within the first few weeks. During the following months it wreaked havoc in Prussia, Switzerland, and northern Europe. The last outbreak was in England in 1556. The disease – which killed tens of thousands of people – was probably influenza or a similar viral infection, but records from the time when medicine was not a science can be unreliable. As medicine became a science, the descriptions of disease became less vague. Although medicine could do little at the time to alleviate the suffering of the victims of infection, measures to control the spread of diseases were used. Restrictions on trade and travel were implemented, stricken families were isolated from their communities, buildings were fumigated and livestock killed.\n\nReferences to influenza infections date from the late 15th and early 16th centuries, but infections almost certainly occurred long before then. In 1173, an epidemic occurred that was possibly the first in Europe, and in 1493, an outbreak of what is now thought to be swine influenza, struck Native Americans in Hispaniola. There is some evidence to suggest that source of the infection was pigs on Columbus's ships. During an influenza epidemic that occurred in England between 1557 and 1559, five per cent of the population – about 150,000 – died from the infection. The mortality rate was nearly five times that of the 1918–19 pandemic. The first pandemic that was reliably recorded began in July 1580 and swept across Europe, Africa, and Asia. The mortality rate was high – 8,000 died in Rome. The next three pandemics occurred in the 18th century, including that during 1781–82, which was probably the most devastating in history. This began in November 1781 in China and reached Moscow in December. In February 1782 it hit Saint Petersburg, and by May it had reached Denmark. Within six weeks, 75 per cent of the British population were infected and the pandemic soon spread to the Americas.\nThe Americas and Australia remained free of measles and smallpox until the arrival of European colonists between the 15th and 18th centuries. Along with measles and influenza, smallpox was taken to the Americas by the Spanish. Smallpox was endemic in Spain, having been introduced by the Moors from Africa. In 1519, an epidemic of smallpox broke out in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan in Mexico. This was started by the army of Pánfilo de Narváez, who followed Hernán Cortés from Cuba and had an African slave suffering from smallpox aboard his ship. When the Spanish finally entered the capital in the summer of 1521, they saw it strewn with the bodies of smallpox victims. The epidemic, and those that followed during 1545–1548 and 1576–1581, eventually killed more than half of the native population. Most of the Spanish were immune; with his army of fewer than 900 men it would not have been possible for Cortés to defeat the Aztecs and conquer Mexico without the help of smallpox. Many Native American populations were devastated later by the inadvertent spread of diseases introduced by Europeans. In the 150 years that followed Columbus's arrival in 1492, the Native American population of North America was reduced by 80 per cent from diseases, including measles, smallpox and influenza. The damage done by these viruses significantly aided European attempts to displace and conquer the native population.\n\nBy the 18th century, smallpox was endemic in Europe. There were five epidemics in London between 1719 and 1746, and large outbreaks occurred in other major European cities. By the end of the century about 400,000 Europeans were dying from the disease each year. It reached South Africa in 1713, having been carried by ships from India, and in 1789 the disease struck Australia. In the 19th century, smallpox became the single most important cause of death of the Australian Aborigines.\n\nIn 1546 Girolamo Fracastoro (1478–1553) wrote a classic description of measles. He thought the disease was caused by \"seeds\" (\"seminaria\") that were spread from person to person. An epidemic hit London in 1670, recorded by Thomas Sydenham (1624–1689), who thought it was caused by toxic vapours emanating from the earth. His theory was wrong but he was a skilled observer and kept meticulous records.\n\nYellow fever is an often lethal disease caused by a flavivirus. The virus is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes (\"Aedes aegypti\") and first appeared over 3,000 years ago. In 1647, the first recorded epidemic occurred on Barbados and was called \"Barbados distemper\" by John Winthrop, who was the governor of the island at the time. He passed quarantine laws to protect the people – the first ever such laws in North America. Further epidemics of the disease occurred in North America in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. The first known cases of dengue fever occurred in Indonesia and Egypt in 1779. Trade ships brought the disease to the US, where an epidemic occurred in Philadelphia in 1780.\nMany paintings can be found in the museums of Europe depicting tulips with attractive coloured stripes. Most, such as the still life studies of Johannes Bosschaert, were painted during the 17th century. These flowers were particularly popular and became sought after by those who could afford them. At the peak of this tulip mania in the 1630s, one bulb could cost as much as a house. It was not known at the time that the stripes were caused by a virus accidentally transferred by humans to tulips from jasmine. Weakened by the virus, the plants turned out to be a poor investment. Only a few bulbs produced flowers with the attractive characteristics of their parent plants.\n\nUntil the Irish Great Famine of 1845–1852, the commonest cause of disease in potatoes was not the mould that causes blight, it was a virus. The disease, called \"curl\", is caused by potato leafroll virus, and it was widespread in England in the 1770s, where it destroyed 75 per cent of the potato crop. At that time, the Irish potato crop remained relatively unscathed.\n\nLady Mary Wortley Montagu (1689–1762) was an aristocrat, a writer and the wife of a Member of Parliament. In 1716, her husband, Edward Wortley Montagu, was appointed British Ambassador in Istanbul. She followed him there and two weeks after her arrival discovered the local practice of protection against smallpox by variolation – the injection of pus from smallpox victims into the skin. Her younger brother had died of smallpox, and she too had had the disease. Determined to spare her five-year-old son Edward from similar suffering, she ordered the embassy surgeon Charles Maitland to variolate him. On her return to London, she asked Maitland to variolate her four-year-old daughter in the presence of the king's physicians. Later, Montagu persuaded the Prince and Princess of Wales to sponsor a public demonstration of the procedure. Six prisoners who had been condemned to death and were awaiting execution at Newgate Prison were offered a full pardon for serving as the subjects of the public experiment. They accepted and were variolated in 1721. All the prisoners recovered from the procedure. To test its protective effect one of them, a nineteen-year-old woman, was ordered to sleep in the same bed as a ten-year-old smallpox victim for six weeks. She did not contract the disease.\n\nThe experiment was repeated on eleven orphan children, all of whom survived the ordeal, and by 1722 even King George I's grandchildren had been inoculated. The practice was not entirely safe and there was a one in fifty chance of death. The procedure was expensive; some medical practitioners charged between £5 and £10 and some sold the method to other practitioners for fees between £50 to £100, or for half of the profits. Variolation became a lucrative franchise, but it remained beyond the means of many until the late 1770s. At the time nothing was known about viruses or the immune system, and no one knew how the procedure afforded protection.\nEdward Jenner (1749–1823), a British rural physician, was variolated as a boy. He had suffered greatly from the ordeal but survived fully protected from smallpox. Jenner knew of a local belief that dairy workers who had contracted a relatively mild infection called cowpox were immune to smallpox. He decided to test the theory (although he was probably not the first to do so). On 14 May 1796 he selected \"a healthy boy, about eight years old for the purpose of inoculation for the Cow Pox\". The boy, James Phipps (1788–1853), survived the experimental inoculation with cowpox virus and suffered only a mild fever. On 1 July 1796, Jenner took some \"smallpox matter\" (probably infected pus) and repeatedly inoculated Phipps's arms with it. Phipps survived and was subsequently inoculated with smallpox more than 20 times without succumbing to the disease. Vaccination – the word is derived from the Latin \"vacca\" meaning \"cow\" – had been invented. Jenner's method was soon shown to be safer than variolation, and by 1801 more than 100,000 people had been vaccinated.\n\nDespite objections from those medical practitioners who still practised variolation, and who foresaw a decline in their income, free vaccination of the poor was introduced in the UK in 1840. Because of associated deaths, variolation was declared illegal in the same year. Vaccination was made compulsory in England and Wales by the 1853 Vaccination Act, and parents could be fined £1 if their children were not vaccinated before they were three months of age. The law was not adequately enforced, and the system for providing vaccinations, unchanged since 1840, was ineffective. After an early compliance by the population only a small proportion were vaccinated. Compulsory vaccination was not well received and, following protests, the Anti-Vaccination League and the Anti-Compulsory Vaccination League were formed in 1866. Following the anti-vaccination campaigns there was a severe outbreak of smallpox in Gloucester in 1895, the city's first in twenty years; 434 people died, including 281 children. Despite this, the British government conceded to the protesters and the Vaccination Act of 1898 abolished fines and made provision for a \"conscientious objector\" clause – the first use of the term – for parents who did not believe in vaccination. During the following year, 250,000 objections were granted, and by 1912 less than half of the population of newborns were being vaccinated. By 1948, smallpox vaccination was no longer compulsory in the UK.\n\nRabies is an often fatal disease caused by the infection of mammals with rabies virus. In the 21st century it is mainly a disease that affects wild mammals such as foxes and bats, but it is one of the oldest known virus diseases: \"rabies\" is a Sanskrit word (\"rabhas\") that dates from 3000 BC, which means \"madness\" or \"rage\", and the disease has been known for over 4000 years. Descriptions of rabies can be found in Mesopotamian texts, and the ancient Greeks called it \"lyssa\" or \"lytta\", meaning \"madness\". References to rabies can be found in the Laws of Eshnunna, which date from 2300 BC. Aristotle (384–322 BC) wrote one of the earliest undisputed descriptions of the disease and how it was passed to humans. Celsus, in the first century AD, first recorded the symptom called hydrophobia and suggested that the saliva of infected animals and humans contained a slime or poison – to describe this he invented the word \"virus\". Rabies does not cause epidemics, but the infection was greatly feared because of its terrible symptoms, which include insanity, hydrophobia and death.\n\nIn France during the time of Louis Pasteur (1822–1895) there were only a few hundred rabies infections in humans each year, but cures were desperately sought. Aware of the possible danger, Pasteur began to look for the \"microbe\" in mad dogs. Pasteur showed that when the dried spinal cords from dogs that had died from rabies were crushed and injected into healthy dogs they did not become infected. He repeated the experiment several times on the same dog with tissue that had been dried for fewer and fewer days, until the dog survived even after injections of fresh rabies-infected spinal tissue. Pasteur had immunised the dog against rabies, as he later did with 50 more.\nAlthough Pasteur had little idea how his method worked, he tested it on a boy, Joseph Meister (1876–1940), who was brought to Pasteur by his mother on 6 July 1885. He was covered in bites, having been set upon by a mad dog. Meister's mother begged Pasteur to help her son. Pasteur was a scientist, not a physician, and he was well aware of the consequences for him if things were to go wrong. He nevertheless decided to help the boy and injected him with increasingly virulent rabid rabbit spinal tissue over the following 10 days. Later Pasteur wrote, \"as the death of this child appeared inevitable, I decided, not without deep and severe unease ... to try out on Joseph Meister the procedure, which had consistently worked on dogs\". Meister recovered and returned home with his mother on 27 July. Pasteur successfully treated a second boy in October that same year; Jean-Baptiste Jupille (1869–1923) was a 15-year-old shepherd boy who had been severely bitten as he tried to protect other children from a rabid dog. Pasteur's method of treatment remained in use for over 50 years.\n\nLittle was known about the cause of the disease until 1903 when Adelchi Negri (1876–1912) first saw microscopic lesions – now called Negri bodies – in the brains of rabid animals. He wrongly thought they were protozoan parasites. Paul Remlinger (1871–1964) soon showed by filtration experiments that they were much smaller than protozoa, and even smaller than bacteria. Thirty years later, Negri bodies were shown to be accumulations of particles 100–150 nanometres long, now known to be the size of rhabdovirus particles – the virus that causes rabies.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, evidence for the existence of viruses was obtained from experiments with filters that had pores too small for bacteria to pass through; the term \"filterable virus\" was coined to describe them. Until the 1930s most scientists believed that viruses were small bacteria, but following the invention of the electron microscope in 1931 they were shown to be completely different, to a degree that not all scientists were convinced they were anything other than accumulations of toxic proteins. The situation changed radically when it was discovered that viruses contain genetic material in the form of DNA or RNA. Once they were recognised as distinct biological entities they were soon shown to be the cause of numerous infections of plants, animals and even bacteria.\n\nOf the many diseases of humans that were found to be caused by viruses in the 20th century one, smallpox, has been eradicated. The diseases caused by viruses such as HIV and influenza virus have proved to be more difficult to control. Other diseases, such as those caused by arboviruses, are presenting new challenges.\n\nAs humans have changed their behaviour during history, so have viruses. In ancient times the human population was too small for pandemics to occur and, in the case of some viruses, too small for them to survive. In the 20th and 21st century increasing population densities, revolutionary changes in agriculture and farming methods, and high speed travel have contributed to the spread of new viruses and the re-appearance of old ones. Like smallpox, some viral diseases might be conquered, but new ones, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), will continue to emerge. Although vaccines are still the most powerful weapon against viruses, in recent decades antiviral drugs have been developed to specifically target viruses as they replicate in their hosts. The 2009 influenza pandemic showed how rapidly new strains of viruses continue to spread around the world, despite efforts to contain them.\n\nAdvances in virus discovery and control continue to be made. Human metapneumovirus, which is a cause of respiratory infections including pneumonia, was discovered in 2001. A vaccine for the papillomaviruses that cause cervical cancer was developed between 2002 and 2006. In 2005, human T lymphotropic viruses 3 and 4 were discovered. In 2008 the WHO Global Polio Eradication Initiative was re-launched with a plan to eradicate poliomyelitis by 2015. In 2010, the largest virus, Megavirus chilensis was discovered to infect amoebae. These giant viruses have renewed interest in the role viruses play in evolution and their position in the tree of life.\n\nSmallpox virus was a major cause of death in the 20th century, killing about 300 million people. It has probably killed more humans than any other virus. In 1966 an agreement was reached by the World Health Assembly (the decision-making body of the World Health Organization) to start an \"intensified smallpox eradication programme\" and attempt to eradicate the disease within ten years. At the time, smallpox was still endemic in 31 countries including Brazil, the whole of the Indian sub-continent, Indonesia and sub-Saharan Africa. This ambitious goal was considered achievable for several reasons: the vaccine afforded exceptional protection; there was only one type of the virus; there were no animals that naturally carried it; the incubation period of the infection was known and rarely varied from 12 days; and infections always gave rise to symptoms, so it was clear who had the disease.\n\nFollowing mass vaccinations, disease detection and containment were central to the eradication campaign. As soon as cases were detected, the victims were isolated as were their close contacts, who were vaccinated. Successes came quickly; by 1970 smallpox was no longer endemic in western Africa, nor, by 1971, in Brazil. By 1973, smallpox remained endemic only in the Indian sub-continent, Botswana and Ethiopia. Finally, after 13 years of coordinated disease surveillance and vaccination campaigns throughout the world, the World Health Organization declared smallpox eradicated in 1979. Although the main weapon used was vaccinia virus, which was used as the vaccine, no one seems to know exactly where vaccinia virus came from; it is not the strain of cowpox that Edward Jenner used, and it is not a weakened form of smallpox.\n\nThe eradication campaign led to the death of Janet Parker (c. 1938–1978) and the subsequent suicide of the smallpox expert Henry Bedson (1930–1978). Parker was an employee of the University of Birmingham who worked in the same building as Bedson's smallpox laboratory. She was infected by a strain of smallpox virus that Bedson's team had been investigating. Ashamed of the accident and having blamed himself for it, Bedson committed suicide.\n\nBefore the September 11 attacks on the United States in 2001, the World Health Organization proposed the destruction of all the known remaining stocks of smallpox virus that were kept in laboratories in the US and Russia. Fears of bioterrorism using smallpox virus and the possible need for the virus in the development of drugs to treat the infection have put an end to this plan. Had the destruction gone ahead, smallpox virus might have been the first to be made extinct by human intervention.\n\nBefore the introduction of vaccination in the US in the 1960s there were more than 500,000 cases each year resulting in about 400 deaths. In developed countries children were mainly infected between the ages of three and five years old, but in developing countries half the children were infected before the age of two. In the US and the UK, there were regular annual or biannual epidemics of the disease, which depended on the number of children born each year. The current epidemic strain evolved in the first part of the 20th century – probably between 1908 and 1943.\n\nIn London between 1950 and 1968 there were epidemics every two years, but in Liverpool, which had a higher birth rate, there was an annual cycle of epidemics. During the Great Depression in the US before the Second World War the birth rate was low, and epidemics of measles were sporadic. After the war the birth rate increased, and epidemics occurred regularly every two years. In developing countries with very high birth rates, epidemics occurred every year. Measles is still a major problem in densely populated, less-developed countries with high birth rates and lacking effective vaccination campaigns.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, following a mass vaccination programme that was known as \"make measles a memory\", the incidence of measles in the US had fallen by 90 per cent. Similar vaccination campaigns in other countries have reduced the levels of infection by 99 per cent over the past 50 years. Susceptible individuals remain a source of infection and include those who have migrated from countries with ineffective vaccination schedules, or who refuse the vaccine or choose not to have their children vaccinated.\nHumans are the only natural host of measles virus. Immunity to the disease following an infection is lifelong; that afforded by vaccination is long term but eventually wanes.\n\nThe use of the vaccine has been controversial. In 1998, Andrew Wakefield and his colleagues published a fraudulent research paper and he claimed to link the MMR vaccine with autism. The study was widely reported and fed concern about the safety of vaccinations. Wakefield's research was identified as fraudulent and in 2010, he was struck off the UK medical register and can no longer practise medicine in the UK. In the wake of the controversy, the MMR vaccination rate in the UK fell from 92 per cent in 1995, to less than 80 per cent in 2003. Cases of measles rose from 56 in 1998 to 1370 in 2008, and similar increases occurred throughout Europe. In April 2013, an epidemic of measles in Wales in the UK broke out, which mainly affected teenagers who had not been vaccinated. Despite this controversy, measles has been eliminated from Finland, Sweden and Cuba. Japan abolished mandatory vaccination in 1992, and in 1995–1997 more than 200,000 cases were reported in the country. Measles remains a public health problem in Japan, where it is now endemic; a National Measles Elimination Plan was established in December 2007, with a view to eliminating the disease from the country. The possibility of global elimination of measles has been debated in medical literature since the introduction of the vaccine in the 1960s. Should the current campaign to eradicate poliomyelitis be successful, it is likely that the debate will be renewed.\n\nDuring the summers of the mid-20th century, parents in the US and Europe dreaded the annual appearance of poliomyelitis (or polio), which was commonly known as \"infantile paralysis\". The disease was rare at the beginning of the century, and worldwide there were only a few thousand cases per year, but by the 1950s there were 60,000 cases each year in the US alone and an average of 2,300 in England and Wales.\n\nDuring 1916 and 1917 there had been a major epidemic in the US; 27,000 cases and 6,000 deaths were recorded, with 9,000 cases in New York City. At the time nobody knew how the virus was spreading. Many of the city's inhabitants, including scientists, thought that impoverished slum-dwelling immigrants were to blame even though the prevalence of the disease was higher in the more prosperous districts such as Staten Island – a pattern that had also been seen in cities like Philadelphia. Many other industrialised countries were affected at the same time. In particular, before the outbreaks in the US, large epidemics had occurred in Sweden.\n\nThe reason for the rise of polio in industrialised countries in the 20th century has never been fully explained. The disease is caused by a virus that is passed from person to person by the faecal-oral route, and naturally infects only humans. It is a paradox that it became a problem during times of improved sanitation and increasing affluence. Although the virus was discovered at the beginning of the 20th century, its ubiquity was unrecognised until the 1950s. It is now known that fewer than two per cent of individuals who are infected develop the disease, and most infections are mild. During epidemics the virus was effectively everywhere, which explains why public health officials were unable to isolate a source.\n\nFollowing the development of vaccines in the mid-1950s, mass vaccination campaigns took place in many countries. In the US, after a campaign promoted by the March of Dimes, the annual number of polio cases fell dramatically; the last outbreak was in 1979. In 1988 the World Health Organization along with others launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, and by 1994 the Americas were declared to be free of disease, followed by the Pacific region in 2000 and Europe in 2003. At the end of 2012, only 223 cases were reported by the World Health Organization. Mainly poliovirus type 1 infections, 122 occurred in Nigeria, one in Chad, 58 in Pakistan and 37 in Afghanistan. Vaccination teams often face danger; seven vaccinators were murdered in Pakistan and nine in Nigeria at the beginning of 2013. In Pakistan, the campaign was further hampered by the murder on 26 February 2013 of a police officer who was providing security.\n\nThe human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that – when the infection is not treated – can cause AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). Most virologists believe that HIV originated in sub-Saharan Africa during the 20th century, and over 70 million individuals have been infected by the virus. By 2011, an estimated 35 million had died from AIDS, making it one of the most destructive epidemics in recorded history.\nHIV-1 is one of the most significant viruses to have emerged in the last quarter of the 20th century. When, in 1981, a scientific article was published that reported the deaths of five young gay men, no one knew that they had died from AIDS. The full scale of the epidemic – and that the virus had been silently emerging over several decades – was not known.\n\nHIV crossed the species barrier between chimpanzees and humans in Africa in the early decades of the 20th century. During the years that followed there were enormous social changes and turmoil in Africa. Population shifts were unprecedented as vast numbers of people moved from rural farms to the expanding cities, and the virus was spread from remote regions to densely populated urban conurbations. The incubation period for AIDS is around 10 years, so a global epidemic starting in the early 1980s is credible. At this time there was much scapegoating and stigmatisation. The \"out of Africa\" theory for the origin of the HIV pandemic was not well received by Africans, who felt that the \"blame\" was misplaced. This led the World Health Assembly to pass a 1987 resolution, which stated that HIV is \"a naturally occurring [virus] of undetermined geographic origin\".\n\nThe HIV pandemic has challenged communities and brought about social changes throughout the world. Opinions on sexuality are more openly discussed. Advice on sexual practices and drug use – which were once taboo – is sponsored by many governments and their healthcare providers. Debates on the ethics of provision and cost of anti-retroviral drugs, particularly in poorer countries, have highlighted inequalities in healthcare and stimulated far-reaching legislative changes. In developing countries the impact of HIV/AIDS has been profound; key organisations such as healthcare, defense and civil services have been severely disrupted. Life expectancy has fallen. In Zimbabwe, for example, life expectancy was 79 years in 1991 but by 2001 it had fallen to 39 years.\n\nWhen influenza virus undergoes a genetic shift many humans have no immunity to the new strain, and if the population of susceptible individuals is high enough to maintain the chain of infection, pandemics occur. The genetic changes usually happen when different strains of the virus co-infect animals, particularly birds and swine. Although many viruses of vertebrates are restricted to one species, influenza virus is an exception. The last pandemic of the 19th century occurred in 1899 and resulted in the deaths of 250,000 people in Europe. The virus, which originated in Russia or Asia, was the first to be rapidly spread by people on trains and steamships.\n\nA new strain of the virus emerged in 1918, and the subsequent pandemic of Spanish flu was one of the worst natural disasters in history. The death toll was enormous; throughout the world around 50 million people died from the infection. There were 550,000 reported deaths caused by the disease in the US, ten times the country's losses during the First World War, and 228,000 deaths in the UK. In India there were more than 20 million deaths, and in Western Samoa 22 per cent of the population died. Although cases of influenza occurred every winter, there were only two other pandemics in the 20th century.\n\nIn 1957 another new strain of the virus emerged and caused a pandemic of Asian flu; although the virus was not as virulent as the 1918 strain, over one million died worldwide. The next pandemic occurred when Hong Kong flu emerged in 1968, a new strain of the virus that replaced the 1957 strain. Affecting mainly the elderly, the 1968 pandemic was the least severe, but 33,800 were killed in the US. New strains of influenza virus often originate in East Asia; in rural China the concentration of ducks, pigs, and humans in close proximity is the highest in the world.\n\nThe most recent pandemic occurred in 2009, but none of the last three has caused anything near the devastation seen in 1918. Exactly why the strain of influenza that emerged in 1918 was so devastating is a question that still remains unanswered.\n\nArboviruses are viruses that are transmitted to humans and other vertebrates by blood-sucking insects. These viruses are diverse; the term \"arbovirus\" – which was derived from \"arthropod-borne virus\" – is no longer used in formal taxonomy because many species of virus are known to be spread in this way. There are more than 500 species of arboviruses, but in the 1930s only three were known to cause disease in humans: yellow fever virus, dengue virus and Pappataci fever virus. More than 100 of such viruses are now known to cause human diseases including encephalitis.\n\nYellow fever is the most notorious disease caused by a flavivirus. The last major epidemic in the US occurred in 1905. During the building of the Panama Canal thousands of workers died from the disease. Yellow fever originated in Africa and the virus was brought to the Americas on cargo ships, which were harbouring the \"Aedes aegypti\" mosquito that carries the virus. The first recorded epidemic in Africa occurred in Ghana, in West Africa, in 1926. In the 1930s the disease re-emerged in Brazil. Fred Soper, an American epidemiologist (1893–1977), discovered the importance of the sylvatic cycle of infection in non-human hosts, and that infection of humans was a \"dead end\" that broke this cycle. Although the yellow fever vaccine is one of the most successful ever developed, epidemics continue to occur. In 1986–91 in West Africa, over 20,000 people were infected, 4,000 of whom died.\n\nIn the 1930s, St. Louis encephalitis, eastern equine encephalitis and western equine encephalitis emerged in the US. The virus that causes La Crosse encephalitis was discovered in the 1960s, and West Nile virus arrived in New York in 1999. As of 2010, dengue virus is the most prevalent arbovirus and increasingly virulent strains of the virus have spread across Asia and the Americas.\n\nHepatitis is a disease of the liver that has been recognised since antiquity. Symptoms include jaundice, a yellowing of the skin, eyes and body fluids. There are numerous causes, including viruses – particularly hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus. Throughout history epidemics of jaundice have been reported, mainly affecting soldiers at war. This \"campaign jaundice\" was common in the Middle Ages. It occurred among Napoleon's armies and during most of the major conflicts of the 19th and 20th centuries, including the American Civil War, where over 40,000 cases and around 150 deaths were reported. The viruses that cause epidemic jaundice were not discovered until the middle of the 20th century. The names for epidemic jaundice, hepatitis A, and for blood-borne infectious jaundice, hepatitis B, were first used in 1947, following a publication in 1946 giving evidence that the two diseases were distinct. In the 1960s, the first virus that could cause hepatitis was discovered. This was hepatitis B virus, which was named after the disease it causes. Hepatitis A virus was discovered in 1974.\nThe discovery of hepatitis B virus and the invention of tests to detect it have radically changed many medical, and some cosmetic procedures. The screening of donated blood, which was introduced in the early 1970s, has dramatically reduced the transmission of the virus. Donations of human blood plasma and Factor VIII collected before 1975 often contained infectious levels of hepatitis B virus. Until the late 1960s, hypodermic needles were often reused by medical professionals, and tattoo artists' needles were a common source of infection. In the late 1990s, needle exchange programmes were established in Europe and the US to prevent the spread of infections by intravenous drug users. These measures also helped to reduce the subsequent impact of HIV and hepatitis C virus.\n\nEpizootics are outbreaks (epidemics) of disease among non-human animals. During the 20th century significant epizootics of viral diseases in animals, particularly livestock, occurred worldwide. The many diseases caused by viruses included foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest of cattle, avian and swine influenza, swine fever and bluetongue of sheep. Viral diseases of livestock can be devastating both to farmers and the wider community, as the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the UK in 2001 showed.\n\nFirst appearing in East Africa in 1891, rinderpest, a disease of cattle, spread rapidly across Africa. By 1892, 95 per cent of the cattle in East Africa had died. This resulted in a famine that devastated the farmers and nomadic people, some of whom were entirely dependent on their cattle. Two thirds of the population of Maasai people died. The situation was made worse by epidemics of smallpox that followed in the wake of the famine. In the early years of the 20th century rinderpest was common in Asia and parts of Europe. The prevalence of the disease was steadily reduced during the century by control measures that included vaccination. By 1908 Europe was free from the disease. Outbreaks did occur following the Second World War, but these were quickly controlled. The prevalence of the disease increased in Asia, and in 1957 Thailand had to appeal for aid because so many buffaloes had died that the paddy fields could not be prepared for rice growing. Russia west of the Ural Mountains remained free from the disease – Lenin approved several laws on the control of the disease – but cattle in eastern Russia were constantly infected with rinderpest that originated in Mongolia and China where the prevalence remained high. India controlled the spread of the disease, which had retained a foothold in the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, throughout the 20th century, and had eradicated the disease by 1995. Africa suffered two major panzootics in the 1920s and 1980s. There was a severe outbreak in Somalia in 1928 and the disease was widespread in the country until 1953. In the 1980s, outbreaks in Tanzania and Kenya were controlled by the use of 26 million doses of vaccine, and a recurrence of the disease in 1997 was suppressed by an intensive vaccination campaign. By the end of the century rinderpest had been eradicated from most countries. A few pockets of infection remained in Ethiopia and Sudan, and in 1994 the Global Rinderpest Eradication Programme was launched by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) with the aim of global eradication by 2010. In May 2011, the FAO and the World Organisation for Animal Health announced that \"rinderpest as a freely circulating viral disease has been eliminated from the world.\"\n\nFoot-and-mouth disease is a highly contagious infection caused by an aphthovirus, and is classified in the same family as poliovirus. The virus has infected animals, mainly ungulates, in Africa since ancient times and was probably brought to the Americas in the 19th century by imported livestock. Foot-and-mouth disease is rarely fatal, but the economic losses incurred by outbreaks in sheep and cattle herds can be high. The last occurrence of the disease in the US was in 1929, but as recently as 2001, several large outbreaks occurred throughout the UK and thousands of animals were killed and burnt.\n\nThe natural hosts of influenza viruses are pigs and birds, although it has probably infected humans since antiquity. The virus can cause mild to severe epizootics in wild and domesticated animals. Many species of wild birds migrate and this has spread influenza across the continents throughout the ages. The virus has evolved into numerous strains and continues to do so, posing an ever-present threat.\n\nIn the early years of the 21st century epizootics in livestock caused by viruses continue to have serious consequences. Bluetongue disease, a disease caused by an orbivirus broke out in sheep in France in 2007. Until then the disease had been mainly confined to the Americas, Africa, southern Asia and northern Australia, but it is now an emerging disease around the Mediterranean.\n\nDuring the 20th century, many \"old\" diseases of plants were found to be caused by viruses. These included maize streak and cassava mosaic disease.\nAs with humans, when plants thrive in close proximity, so do their viruses. This can cause huge economic losses and human tragedies. In Jordan during the 1970s, where tomatoes and cucurbits (cucumbers, melons and gourds) were extensively grown, entire fields were infected with viruses. Similarly, in Côte d'Ivoire, thirty different viruses infected crops such as legumes and vegetables. In Kenya cassava mosaic virus, maize streak virus and groundnut viral diseases caused the loss of up to 70 per cent of the crop.\nCassava is the most abundant crop that is grown in eastern Africa and it is a staple crop for more than 200 million people. It was introduced to Africa from South America and grows well in soils with poor fertility. The most important disease of cassava is caused by cassava mosaic virus, a geminivirus, which is transmitted between plants by whiteflies. The disease was first recorded in 1894 and outbreaks of the disease occurred in eastern Africa throughout the 20th century, often resulting in famine.\n\nIn the 1920s the sugarbeet growers in the western US suffered huge economic loss caused by damage done to their crops by the leafhopper-transmitted beet curly top virus. In 1956, between 25 and 50 per cent of the rice crop in Cuba and Venezuela was destroyed by rice hoja blanca virus. In 1958, it caused the loss of many rice fields in Colombia. Outbreaks recurred in 1981, which caused losses of up to 100 per cent. In Ghana between 1936 and 1977, the mealybug-transmitted cacao swollen-shoot virus caused the loss of 162 million cacao trees, and additional trees were lost at the rate of 15 million each year. In 1948, in Kansas, US, seven per cent of the wheat crop was destroyed by wheat streak mosaic virus, spread by the wheat curl mite \"(Aceria tulipae)\". In the 1950s papaya ringspot virus – a potyvirus – caused a devastating loss of solo papaya crops on Oahu, Hawaii. Solo papaya had been introduced to the island in the previous century but the disease had not been seen on the island before the 1940s.\n\nSuch disasters occurred when human intervention caused ecological changes by the introduction of crops to new vectors and viruses. Cacao is native to South America and was introduced to West Africa in the late 19th century. In 1936, swollen root disease had been transmitted to plantations by mealybugs from indigenous trees. New habitats can trigger outbreaks of plant virus diseases. Before 1970, the rice yellow mottle virus was only found in the Kisumu district of Kenya, but following the irrigation of large areas of East Africa and extensive rice cultivation, the virus spread throughout East Africa. Human activity introduced plant viruses to native crops. The citrus tristeza virus (CTV) was introduced to South America from Africa between 1926 and 1930. At the same time, the aphid \"Toxoptera citricidus\" was carried from Asia to South America and this accelerated the transmission of the virus. By 1950, more than six million citrus trees had been killed by the virus in São Paulo, Brazil. CTV and citrus trees probably coevolved for centuries in their original countries. The dispersal of CTV to other regions and its interaction with new citrus varieties resulted in devastating outbreaks of plant diseases. Because of the problems caused by the introduction – by humans – of plant viruses, many countries have strict importation controls on any materials that can harbour dangerous plant viruses or their insect vectors.\n\nEmerging viruses are those that have only relatively recently infected the host species. In humans, many emerging viruses have come from other animals. When viruses jump to other species the diseases caused in humans are called \"zoonoses\" or \"zoonotic infections\".\n\nSevere acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is caused by a new type of coronavirus. Other coronaviruses were known to cause mild infections in humans, so the virulence and rapid spread of this novel virus strain caused alarm among health professionals as well as public fear. The fears of a major pandemic were not realised, and by July 2003, after causing around 8,000 cases and 800 deaths, the outbreak had ended. The exact origin of the SARS virus is not known, but evidence suggests that it came from bats.\n\nWest Nile virus, a flavivirus, was first identified in 1937 when it was found in the blood of a feverish woman. The virus, which is carried by mosquitoes and birds, caused outbreaks of infection in North Africa and the Middle East in the 1950s and by the 1960s horses in Europe fell victim. The largest outbreak in humans occurred in 1974 in Cape Province, South Africa and 10,000 people became ill. An increasing frequency of epidemics and epizootics (in horses) began in 1996, around the Mediterranean basin, and by 1999 the virus had reached New York City. Since then the virus has spread throughout the US. In the US, mosquitoes carry the highest amounts of virus in late summer, and the number of cases of the disease increases in mid July to early September. When the weather becomes colder, the mosquitoes die and the risk of disease decreases. In Europe, many outbreaks have occurred; in 2000 a surveillance programme began in the UK to monitor the incidence of the virus in humans, dead birds, mosquitoes and horses. The mosquito \"(Culex modestus)\" that can carry the virus breeds on the marshes of north Kent. This mosquito species was not previously thought to be present in the UK, but it is widespread in southern Europe where it carries West Nile virus.\n\nIn 1997 an outbreak of respiratory disease occurred in Malaysian farmers and their pigs. More than 265 cases of encephalitis, of which 105 were fatal, were recorded. A new paramyxovirus was discovered in a victim's brain; it was named Nipah virus, after the village where he had lived. The infection was caused by a virus from fruit bats, after their colony had been disrupted by deforestation. The bats had moved to trees nearer the pig farm and the pigs caught the virus from their droppings.\n\nSeveral highly lethal viral pathogens are members of the \"Filoviridae\". Filoviruses are filament-like viruses that cause viral haemorrhagic fever, and include the Ebola and Marburg viruses. The Marburg virus attracted widespread press attention in April 2005 after an outbreak in Angola. Beginning in October 2004 and continuing into 2005, there were 252 cases including 227 deaths.\n\nThe Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, which began in 2013, is the most devastating since the emergence of HIV. The initial outbreak occurred in December 2013 in Meliandou, a village in southern Guinea. Among the first victims were a two-year-old boy, his three-year-old sister, their mother and grandmother. After the grandmother's funeral, which was attended by her family and caregivers, the disease spread to neighbouring villages. By March 2014 the outbreak was severe enough to raise the concern of local health officials who reported it to the Guinean Ministry of Health. By the middle of the year the epidemic had spread to Liberia and Sierra Leone. As of June 2015, the World Health Organization reported over 27,000 cases of the disease, which had resulted in more than 11,000 deaths.\n\nThe natural source of Ebola virus is probably bats. Marburg viruses are transmitted to humans by monkeys, and Lassa fever by rats (\"Mastomys natalensis\"). Zoonotic infections can be severe because humans often have no natural resistance to the infection and it is only when viruses become well-adapted to new host that their virulence decreases. Some zoonotic infections are often \"dead ends\", in that after the initial outbreak the rate of subsequent infections subsides because the viruses are not efficient at spreading from person to person.\n\nThe beginning of the 21st century saw an increase in the global awareness of devastating epidemics in developing countries, which, in previous decades had passed relatively unnoticed by the international health community.\n\nSir Peter Medawar (1915–1987) described a virus as \"a piece of bad news wrapped in a protein coat\". With the exception of the bacteriophages, viruses had a well-deserved reputation for being nothing but the cause of diseases and death. The discovery of the abundance of viruses and their overwhelming presence in many ecosystems has led modern virologists to reconsider their role in the biosphere.\n\nIt is estimated that there are about 10 viruses on Earth. Most of them are bacteriophages, and most are in the oceans. Microorganisms constitute more than 90 per cent of the biomass in the sea, and it has been estimated that viruses kill approximately 20 per cent of this biomass each day and that there are fifteen times as many viruses in the oceans as there are bacteria and archaea. Viruses are the main agents responsible for the rapid destruction of harmful algal blooms, which often kill other marine life, and help maintain the ecological balance of different species of marine blue-green algae, and thus adequate oxygen production for life on Earth.\n\nThe emergence of strains of bacteria that are resistant to a broad range of antibiotics has become a problem in the treatment of bacterial infections. Only two new classes of antibiotics have been developed in the past 30 years, and novel ways of combating bacterial infections are being sought. Bacteriophages were first used to control bacteria in the 1920s, and a large clinical trial was conducted by Soviet scientists in 1963. This work was unknown outside the Soviet Union until the results of the trial were published in the West in 1989. The recent and escalating problems caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria has stimulated a renewed interest in the use of bacteriophages and phage therapy.\n\nThe Human Genome Project has revealed the presence of numerous viral DNA sequences scattered throughout the human genome. These sequences make up around eight per cent of human DNA, and appear to be the remains of ancient retrovirus infections of human ancestors. These pieces of DNA have firmly established themselves in human DNA. Most of this DNA is no longer functional, but some of these friendly viruses have brought with them novel genes that are important in human development. Viruses have transferred important genes to plants. About ten per cent of all photosynthesis uses the products of genes that have been transferred to plants from blue-green algae by viruses.\n\n"}
{"id": "35836108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35836108", "title": "Social networking pedagogy", "text": "Social networking pedagogy\n\nSocial Networking Pedagogy is a philosophy of education described by curriculum theorists Thomas Patrick Huston and Hallie DeCatherine Jones as a form of learner-driven participatory culture where the user’s experience is reciprocal, consisting of a range of input and output experiences mediated by social networking technologies. The range of individual and unique differentiated user experiences form a composite impression on the individual which functions as an epistemic form of how we come to know and experience the world and its social, cultural, political and economic realities. \n\nIn educational settings, social networking pedagogical approaches place social networking technologies at their core, thus presenting expansive opportunities for education to extend the curriculum beyond the traditional walls of educational institutions by reaching into the daily-lived experiences of individuals. The archival features and lack of temporal constraints associated with Internet technologies sustain continually changing currents that educators can connect to student-driven interests by engaging them with trending topics. Through Social Network Pedagogy, educators can develop a teaching praxis where the classroom and social space blend and individuals’ creative contributions are acknowledged for their cultural value. \n\nJones and Huston began theorizing the development of Social Networking Pedagogy during their tenure as doctoral students at the Indiana University School of Education where they were colleagues in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction. They point to the fields of cultural studies and critical pedagogy, especially the contributions of David Trend with his book Cultural Pedagogy\" Art, Education, Politics and critical theorist Henry Giroux.\n"}
{"id": "17375358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17375358", "title": "Whitechapel Boys", "text": "Whitechapel Boys\n\nThe name \"Whitechapel Boys\" identifies a loosely-knit group of Anglo-Jewish writers and artists of the early 20th century. It is named after Whitechapel, which contained one of London's main Jewish settlements and from which many of its members came. These members included Mark Gertler, Isaac Rosenberg, David Bomberg, Joseph Leftwich, Jacob Kramer, Morris Goldstein, Stephen Winsten, John Rodker, Lazarus Aaronson and its only female member, Clara Birnberg.\n\nThe name is modern, not a contemporary one, originating later in the 20th century.\n\nSeveral of the Whitechapel Boys, such as Rodker, Rosenberg, Leftwich, Winsten and Bomberg, were also politically active and members of the radical Young Socialist League. \n"}
{"id": "39304691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39304691", "title": "Willy Moog", "text": "Willy Moog\n\nWilly Moog (also: Wilhelm or Willi Moog; born 22 January 1888 in Neuengronau (community of Sinntal) – 24 October 1935 in Braunschweig) was a German philosopher and educator.\n\nWilly Moog studied from 1906 to 1909 in Berlin, Munich and Gießen; his areas of primary focus were Germanic Studies and Philosophy. He was inspired by the Berlin lectures of Georg Simmel and studied Neo-Kantianism with the school around Wilhelm Dilthey. 1915-1918 he served, against his will, as soldier in World War I, at a customs office at the Prussian-Polish-Russian border. In 1919, Moog married Mathilde Buss (1884-1958), an artist painter and lyric. The couple had one daughter, Marianne Moog-Hoff (1921-1999), who during World War II emigrated to Oslo in Norway and married a Norwegian.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Moog faced severe problems with the Nazi government, who ruled the federal state of Braunschweig, impersonated by president Dietrich Klagges, before Adolf Hitler came into power. Moog committed suicide in fall 1935.\n\nIn 1909 he wrote a dissertation on the psychology of literature under the supervision of Karl Groos at the Universität Gießen, entitled \"Natur und Ich in Goethes Lyrik\" (\"Nature and I in Goethe's lyrics\"). During the First World War, Moog published his first book \"Kant's views on Peace and War\" (1917). Moog was a fervent pacifist. In 1919, he accomplished his habilitation at Universität Greifswald with the book on \"Logik, Psychologie und Psychologismus\", a then well-known classic on the interdisciplinary debates on psychologism. In Greifswald, he also learned about the philosophy of William James through one of his peers, Johannes Rehmke.\n\nIn 1924 Moog became Full Professor of Philosophy, Pedagigcs and Psychology at Braunschweig University of Technology. From 1927-1930 he was Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Studies. In 1930, his renowned book \"Hegel und die Hegelsche Schule\" was published and received international attention. It was translated into Spanish by José Gaos in 1931. Moog extensively contributed to the history of philosophy, on which he wrote two textbooks, allied by a two volume set on the \"History of Pedagogics\" (Vol. I, 1927; Vol. II 1933, 9th ed. 1991). With the help of Max Frischeisen-Köhler, the co-edited Volume III of Friedrich Ueberweg \"Grundriß der Geschichte der Philosophie\" (on early modern philosophy) appeared in 1924. Moog was well connected to the philosophers of his time, among them Moritz Schlick, Ernst Cassirer, Arthur Liebert, Helmuth Plessner, Heinrich Scholz and Max Wentscher.\n\nA long-term research project on Moog is located at the philosophy department of Technischen Universität Braunschweig \nThe first biography on Moog, written by philosopher Nicole C. Karafyllis, has been published in January 2015 at the German Karl Alber Verlag in Freiburg. During her biographical research, she found out that Willy Moog's relatives are directly related to the US-American pioneer of synthesizer Robert Moog (whose grandfather came from the region around Marburg in Germany).\n\n\n\n"}
