{"id": "7155066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7155066", "title": "Abu Tha'alba", "text": "Abu Tha'alba\n\nAbu Tha'alba () was one of the companions of Muhammad and narrator of hadith, quoted in Sahih Bukhari, the most prominent source of Hadith among Sunni Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "909270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909270", "title": "Agency (LDS Church)", "text": "Agency (LDS Church)\n\nAgency (also referred to as free agency or moral agency), in Latter-day Saint theology, is \"the privilege of choice which was introduced by God the Eternal Father to all of his spirit children in the premortal state\". Mortal life is viewed as a test of faith, where our choices are central to the plan of salvation in Mormon teaching. \"It was essential for their eternal progression that they be subjected to the influences of both good and evil\". Mormons believe that Lucifer presented an alternative plan, which resulted in a war in heaven, with Lucifer being cast out of heaven and becoming Satan.\n\nMormons believe that all individuals have the ability to differentiate between good and evil and that Satan and his followers are not able to tempt people beyond the point where they can resist. This implies that mortals can be held accountable for their actions; mortals will be judged by God based on a combination of one's faith and works (with salvation coming only through the power, mercy, and grace of Jesus Christ).\n\nA major difference between the beliefs of Latter-day Saints and many other Christians involves the belief of a life before mortality, referred to as the pre-earth life, pre-mortal life, or pre-existence. Latter-day Saints believe that before the earth was created, all mankind lived as spirit children of God. Here, God nurtured, taught and provided means for their development. This preparation would allow them to later become the men and women of Earth, to be further educated and tested in the schoolhouse of mortality in order to return to God's presence and become like him. Thus, the pre-existent life is believed to have been a period of unknown length of progression, and schooling. Mormons believe that there came a time when we could not progress further without being born into a body and experiencing earthly life.\n\nAccording to Mormon beliefs, God proposed a plan whereby further progression could take place, a plan of salvation. Because agency would allow all people to fall in sin, a savior was necessary to atone for the sins of each person so that they could return to live with their Father in Heaven. Jesus volunteered to follow the plan as outlined, which preserved agency, accountability for action, and the necessary result that some of Heavenly Father's children would never to return to Heavenly Father as a consequence of sin. The second volunteer, Lucifer, attempted to amend the plan by proposing that all mankind would return to Heavenly Father despite their sins—essentially defeating agency and the divine principle of accountability for action. God the Father chose the plan that he proposed with Jesus as the Savior. Lucifer and his followers rebelled against this plan and were eventually cast out of heaven. Lucifer became Satan.\n\nMormons believe that another aspect of agency occurred during the pre-mortal life. Some of the spirit children of God exercised their agency and conformed to God's law and became \"noble and great\". This doctrine is called \"foreordination\". God foreordained some of these spirits to particular stations in life in order to advance his plan to lead humanity back to his presence.\n\nMormons believe that these foreordinations were not unalterable decrees, but rather callings from God for man to perform specific missions in mortality. Even these who were foreordained for greatness could fall and transgress the laws of God. Therefore, mortality is simply a state wherein progression and testing is continued from what began in the pre-existence.\n\nMormon doctrine states that God's plan includes the foreordination of prophets and teachers who have gifts and callings among men to teach and re-teach correct principles so that agency can be used wisely. God's plan includes the important role of parents to teach their children the path of righteousness and happiness, and the blessing of the holy scriptures to give a foundation of gospel knowledge, including the knowledge of the saving role of Jesus Christ and the importance of ordinances and covenants of the gospel.\n\nIn essence, agency is the ability to make choices for oneself, as well as the ability to learn the difference between right and wrong and to make ethical and moral decisions.\n\nDavid O. McKay, a President of the Church, stated, \"It is the purpose of the Lord that man become like him. In order for man to achieve this it was necessary for the Creator first to make him free.\" Without agency, mortality would be useless. Men are ultimately responsible for their own destiny, through their faith and obedience to the commandments of God. \"Free agency\" therefore should not be interpreted to mean that actions are without consequences; \"free\" means that it is a gift from God and consequences must necessarily come as a result of choices made. Free agency and accountability are complementary and cannot be separated.\n\nThis principle holds that it is wrong to deny someone of his or her free agency unless they have abused it to infringe against the agency of another, as it would bind a person from their own choices. Such offenses logically include crimes such as murder, rape and slavery. Furthermore, a person who prevents an individual from doing what they have been commanded to do (e.g., force them to do something they believe is wrong) will be held responsible for any offense.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, church leaders often equated governments led by dictatorships as being under the influence and control of Satan. For example, apostle Ezra Taft Benson often spoke of the \"evil\" communist or socialist movements that threatened the free agency of mankind: \"it is realized that communism is turning out to be the earthly image of the plan which Satan presented in the preexistence. The whole program of socialistic communism is essentially a war against God and the plan of salvation—the very plan which we fought to uphold during 'the war in heaven.'\" Other \nleaders contradicted these statements, often pointing to the church's belief in the \"Law of Consecration\" which is a form of socialism practiced by early church members in which all property was held in common and distributed by church leaders based on the needs of each individual. The church is officially politically neutral and today church members around the world subscribe to a variety of political beliefs including communism and socialism.\n\nMormon doctrine teaches that many men and women since the beginning of mortal time have used their agency unwisely, limiting their own progress and their opportunity to receive light and knowledge. Beginning with Cain, some have used their agency to inflict harm, abuse, tyranny, slavery, or death upon others, contrary to the will and commandments of God.\n\nThe fact that God allows these actions does not mean that He condones them. LDS doctrine holds that agency is an eternal principle, and that God has provided the way through the atonement of Jesus Christ whereby men and women can repent of their wrongful acts of commission or of omission, and come back into the path of receiving further light and knowledge through making right choices. The atonement of Christ and the plan of compassion among men also provides a way whereby those who have been harmed by the sinful actions of others may be healed in a spiritual sense, although this may take great patience and long-suffering, and often requires the help of others.\n\nThe Pearl of Great Price, one of the scriptures of the LDS church, states that Satan, the great deceiver, sought during premortal life to destroy the agency of man, and that he continues to seek to enslave men, women and children in whatever ways that he can in this world, to \"lead them captive at his will.\" LDS doctrine teaches that whatever leads in this world to enslavement, addiction, or forced behavior is ultimately instigated by Satan. God allows these conditions because of the agency he has given to man, but He expects men to overcome evil by doing good among the society in which they live. God holds men and women responsible and accountable in relation to the light and knowledge they have. Every person born into the world is given the light of Christ, also called conscience, to guide each person in choosing good from evil.\n\nLDS doctrine also holds that whenever gospel knowledge has been lost or limited among portions of mankind, this has come about because of the unrighteousness of the people and their leaders, as described by the prophet Isaiah in the Bible.\n\nLDS leaders teach that family and societal relationships are a part of mortal life for many purposes, including the need to learn to show love, acceptance, and compassion in ways that continue to allow agency. They teach that unrighteous dominion is never acceptable to God, and that with the agency given to men is the expectation that when they marry, they will treat their wife and children with love, respect, tenderness, and material and emotional support. LDS leaders teach that men should treat women as equal partners in all decisions in the family.\n\nThe term free agency is commonly used, and has traditionally been interpreted as meaning that individuals have the ability to choose their actions freely. Many leaders of the LDS Church have pointed out that the term \"free agency\" should not be interpreted to mean that agency does not have consequences, but rather that agency is fraught with risk and choices (the result of the exercise of agency) determine eternal destination. Some church manuals avoid the term \"free agency\" and instead refer simply \"agency.\" Some church leaders favor the term \"moral agency\".\n\nIt is said that Adam and Eve were the first of God’s children to come to Earth. They were created in God’s image, with bodies of flesh and bones. God placed them in the Garden of Eden. Here they did not remember their former existence though they were still able to enjoy God's presence and could have lived forever.\n\nAs it is believed the Heavenly Father has blessed all of His children with the freedom to choose, Adam and Eve were given agency to make their own choices on the earth. He commanded them not to eat the forbidden fruit, or the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, warning that such would result in death. Obeying this commandment meant they could remain in the garden forever, but they could not progress by experiencing opposition in mortality and would remain innocent; they could not know joy because they could not experience sorrow and pain. Thus, as a part of the plan, Satan was allowed to tempt Adam and Eve to eat the forbidden fruit and they chose to do so. As a consequence, they were separated from God's presence physically and spiritually. Adam and Eve then became mortal; subject to sin and death, and were unable to return to Heavenly Father without his help. They could now experience disease and all types of suffering. They had moral agency, or the ability to choose between good and evil, which made it possible for them to learn and progress. It also made it possible for them to make wrong choices and to sin. In addition, they could now have children, so the rest of God’s spirit children could come to Earth, obtain physical bodies, and be proven. All this was in accordance with the plan of God. Only in this way could God's children progress and become like him.\n\n"}
{"id": "149146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149146", "title": "Alan Minter", "text": "Alan Minter\n\nAlan Minter (born 17 August 1951) is a British former professional boxer who competed from 1972 to 1981. He held the undisputed middleweight title in 1980, having previously held the British middleweight from 1975 to 1976, and the European middleweight title twice between 1977 and 1979. As an amateur, Minter won a bronze medal in the light-middleweight division at the 1972 Summer Olympics.\n\nMinter was the 1971 Amateur Boxing Association of England Middleweight Champion. He won the bronze medal at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games. Minter began his professional career in London on 31 October 1972 by knocking out Maurice Thomas in six rounds.\n\n\nMinter won five fights in a row by knockout and, in 1973, Pat Dwyer became the first boxer to go the distance with him, over eight rounds in London. Minter won his next five fights, three by knockout, before tasting defeat for the first time after the referee stopped the fight in the eighth round to \"Scottish\" Don McMillan due to bad cuts suffered by Minter. Two more wins followed before facing Jan Magziarz, who beat him twice in a row (once in the eighth and once in the sixth) again due to cuts.\n\n1974 was a mixed year for Minter, beating Tony Byrne by a decision in eight, losing in two to Ricky Torres (again on cuts), having a third fight with Magziarz result in a no contest in four rounds and closing the year with a win in eight rounds by decision in his first international fight, against Shako Mamba in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nIn 1975, he won four fights in a row, including another bout in Hamburg and, by the end of the year, he challenged Kevin Finnegan for the British Middleweight title, winning it by a 15-round decision. In 1976 he won six fights, to extend his streak to ten consecutive wins. Among the boxers he beat were Billy Knight by a knockout in two and Finnegan once again, by decision in 15, both in defence of his British title, along with former world title challenger Tony Licata, knocked out in six and American Olympic Games Gold medal winner Sugar Ray Seales, beaten in five. These wins gave Minter a ranking among the top ten Middleweight challengers.\n\nIn 1977, he won the European Middleweight title by beating Germano Valsecchi by a knockout in five in Italy. But in his next fight his winning streak ended when he lost to former world title challenger Ronnie Harris by a knockout in eight. Minter returned to top ten challenger status by upsetting the former World Welterweight and Light Middleweight Champion Emile Griffith with a ten-round decision win in Monte Carlo, but then he lost his European title to Gratien Tonna by a knockout in eight at Milan. He closed '77 with a third 15-round decision win over Finnegan to retain his British title.\n\n1978 was a sad year for Minter, although he won all three of his bouts. On 15 February, at the Muhammad Ali–Leon Spinks I undercard in Las Vegas, Nevada, he won his first bout in the United States by knocking out Sandy Torres in five. Then, he went to Italy once again to regain his European Middleweight title by knocking out Angelo Jacopucci in twelve rounds. Jacopucci died a few days afterwards, due to injuries sustained in the bout. Minter finished his year by avenging his loss to Tonna with a six-round knockout.\n\nIn 1979, Minter won all four of his fights, two of them by knockout. On 16 March 1980, in Las Vegas, he was given a shot at World Middleweight Champion Vito Antuofermo's title at the Caesars Palace. He won the title by a 15-round decision and, in a rematch, he retained the world title by a TKO in eight rounds. Minter's run as world champion came to an end on 27 September of that year, when he was stopped on cuts in three rounds to Marvin Hagler at Wembley Arena in London. After the fight was stopped, Minter's supporters caused a riot, throwing beer cans and bottles into the ring and both boxers had to be ushered away by the police.\n\nMinter beat fringe contender Ernie Singletary in London, in 1981, but after losses to future Hagler challengers Mustafa Hamsho in Las Vegas and Tony Sibson in London, he retired for good.\n\nHe left boxing with a record of 39 wins, 9 losses and 1 no contest, with 23 wins by knockout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3669650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3669650", "title": "Ali Ashraf Darvishian", "text": "Ali Ashraf Darvishian\n\nAli Ashraf Darvishian (‎; 25 August 1941 – 26 October 2017) was an Iranian story writer and scholar. After finishing teacher-training college, he taught at the poverty-stricken villages of Gilan-e-Gharb and Shah Abad (nowadays called Islam Abad). This atmosphere is featured in most of his stories. Later, he moved to Tehran and continued his studies in Persian literature.\nAs of 2006, Ali Ashraf Darvishian was in Australia as a guest of the Iranian Centre for Democracy and presented a number of lectures on a broad range of social and cultural issues.\n\nMarjane Satrapi, an Iranian-French author, mentions Darvishian in her graphic novel \"Persepolis\". She considers him her favorite childhood author, recalls going to his clandestine book-signing, and describes him as \"a kind of local Charles Dickens\".\nHe died at a hospital in Tehran, on 26 October 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3276181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3276181", "title": "Aripert II", "text": "Aripert II\n\nAripert II (also spelled \"Aribert\") was the king of the Lombards from 701 to 712. Duke of Turin and son of King Raginpert, and thus a scion of the Bavarian Dynasty, he was associated with the throne as early as 700. He was removed by Liutpert, who reigned from 700 to 702, with the exception of the year 701, when Raginpert seized the throne. After his father's death, he tried to take the throne, too. He defeated Liutpert and the regent Ansprand's men at Pavia and captured the king, whom he later had strangled in his bath. He seized the capital and forced Ansprand over the Alps. He was firmly in power by 703.\n\nHe thence reigned uninterrupted until his death. His reign was a troubled one. In 703, Faroald, duke of Spoleto, attacked the Exarchate of Ravenna, but Aripert refused to assist him, for he wanted good relations with papacy and empire. He tried nevertheless to assert his authority over Spoleto and Benevento in the Mezzogiorno. He nursed friendship with Pope John VI by donating vast tracts of land in the Cottian Alps to the Holy See. This friendship helped him little, for he had many rebellions to deal with and many Slovene raids into Venetia.\n\nIn 711, Ansprand, whom he had exiled, returned with a large army from the duke of Bavaria, Theudebert. Many Austrians (the men of Venetia and the east) joined the returning regent and battle was joined by Pavia. Aripert fled to his capital when the tide went against him, but he hoarded the treasures and tried to cross over into Gaul by night. He drowned in the River Ticino and Ansprand was acclaimed sovereign. He was the last Bavarian to wear the Iron Crown.\n"}
{"id": "26873726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26873726", "title": "Arnold Hague", "text": "Arnold Hague\n\nArnold Hague (December 3, 1840, Boston, Massachusetts – May 14, 1917, Washington, D.C.) was a United States geologist who did many geological surveys in the U.S., of which the best known was that for Yellowstone National Park. He also had assignments in China and Guatemala. He became a member of the U. S. Geological Survey in 1879 when it was first organized.\n\nHague was the son of William Hague, a clergyman. He graduated from Sheffield Scientific School at Yale University in 1863. He then spent three years in Germany, studying at the universities of Göttingen and Heidelberg, and at the Freiberg Mining Academy.\n\nIn 1867 he returned to the United States, and was appointed assistant geologist on the U. S. geological exploration of the 40th parallel under Clarence King. He then went to California, and spent the winter of 1867/68 in Virginia City, Nevada, studying the surface geology of the Comstock Lode and the chemistry of the amalgamation process as practised there, and known as the “Washoe process”. The results of this study were published in volume iii. of the report of the exploration, under the title of “Chemistry of the Washoe Process.” He also contributed to the same volume a chapter on the geology of the White Pine mining district, in which there was first brought to notice the great development of Devonian rocks in the Great Basin of Utah and Nevada. In volume ii. — “Descriptive Geology” — of the report of the exploration, which was the joint work of Hague and Samuel F. Emmons, there is given the results of a detailed geological survey across the Cordilleras of North America, from the Great Plains to the Sierra Nevada range in California. This work included a geological atlas of maps and sections, which was completed after a great deal of hardship, the map of the Great Basin being accomplished before the completion of either the Union or Central Pacific Railroad.\n\nOn the termination of this work in 1877, he received the appointment of government geologist of Guatemala, and traveled extensively over the republic, visiting the principal mining regions and the centres of volcanic activity. In 1878 he was engaged by the Chinese government to examine gold, silver, and lead mines in northern China. \n\nOn the organization of the U. S. Geological Survey in 1879, he returned to the United States, and became one of its geologists. He was sent to Nevada, and made a report on the “Geology of the Eureka District.” In 1883 he was made geologist of the Yellowstone Park division, and assigned to the study of the geysers of that district in connection with the extinct volcanic regions of the Rocky Mountains. \n\nHe was a member of scientific societies both in the United States and Europe and in 1885 was elected to the National Academy of Sciences. He received an Sc.D. degree from Columbia University in 1901, and an LL.D. degree from Aberdeen University. \n\nHe was a member of the commission appointed by the National Academy of Sciences at the request of the United States Government in 1896 to prepare plans for the National Forest preserves. He was vice president of the International Congresses of Geologists held in Paris in 1900, in Stockholm in 1910 and in Toronto in 1913. He became president of the Geological Society of America in 1910.\n\nHe made numerous contributions to scientific journals, on lithology and geology, and was the principal author of the following memoirs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1754718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1754718", "title": "Barzakh", "text": "Barzakh\n\nBarzakh (Arabic: برزخ, from Persian \"barzakh\", \"barrier, partition\") is an Arabic word meaning \"obstacle\", \"hindrance\", \"separation\", or \"barrier\". In Islamic eschatology, although largely up to interpretation, \"al-Barzakh\" is generally viewed as the barrier between the physical and spiritual worlds. Barzakh designates a place between hell and heaven, where the soul resides after death, and experiences his own heaven or hell, until the resurrection on \"Qiyamah\" (Judgement Day). Barzakh may, according to Ghazali, also be the place for those, who go neither to hell or to heaven, resembling to the Christian concept of limbo.\n\nThe Arabic word \"barzakh\" is derived from the Persian \"barzakh\", \"barrier, partition\", which is in its turn traced back to the combination \"bar+zax(v)\" (\"high existence\"), similar to the Persian word for hell, \"dūzakh\" < \"dūžax(v)\" (\"evil existence\").\n\nMentioned only three times in the Quran, and just once specifically as the barrier between the corporeal and ethereal, Barzakh is portrayed as a place in which, after death, the spirit is separated from the body – freed to contemplate the wrongdoing of its former life. Despite the gain of recognizance, it cannot utilize action. The other two occurrences refer to Barzakh as an impenetrable barrier between fresh and salt water. While fresh and salt water may intermingle, an ocean remains distinct from a river.\n\nIn Hadith, Ibn al-Qayyim cites that, albeit not mentioned in the Quran, souls in Al-Barzakh would be grouped with others matching in purity or impurity.\n\nIn Islam, the soul and the body are independent of each other. This is significant in Barzakh, because only a person's soul goes to Barzakh and not their physical body. Since one's soul is divorced from their body in Barzakh, the belief is that no progress or improvements to one's past life can be made. If a person experienced a life of sin and worldly pleasures, one cannot try to perform good deeds in order to reach \"Jannah\". Whatever one does in his or her lifetime is final and cannot be changed or altered in Barzakh.\n\nThe idea of purgatory is that it is a place where people go after death that holds punishment and purification for those who are not fit to enter Paradise just yet. People who are in this place do not have enough sins to warrant their entrance into Hell, but they do not have enough good deeds to go to Paradise. This is a temporary place, similar to barzakh. Because they have this in common, some believe that they are the same idea or concept. Barzakh is actually closer to the idea of limbo, a place that is between life and the true afterlife. In this place, people await their final judgment, much like in barzakh. The Quranic idea of aʿrāf (“the heights”) is closer to that of Christian purgatory. Aʿrāf is also thought of as a place where souls go whose good and bad deeds are too evenly matched to go directly to Paradise or the Fire.\n\nSome Muslim scholars stress the importance of Barzakh, while others simply ignore it. \n\nIn Sufism the Barzakh or \"Alam-e-Araf\" is not only where the human soul resides after death but it is also a place that the soul can visit during sleep and meditation. Ibn 'Arabi, defines Barzakh as the intermediate realm or \"isthmus\". It is between the World of Corporeal Bodies and the World of Spirits, and is a means of contact between the two worlds. Without it, there would be no contact between the two and both would cease to exist. It is described as simple and luminous, like the World of Spirits, but also able to take on many different forms just like the World of Corporeal Bodies can. In broader terms Barzakh, “is anything that separates two things”. It has been described as the dream world in which the dreamer is in both life and death.\n\nBarzakh can also refer to a person. Chronologically between Jesus and Mohammad is the contested Prophet Khalid. Ibn 'Arabi considers this man to be a “Barzakh” or the Perfect Human Being. Chittick explains that the Perfect Human acts as the \"Barzakh\" or \"isthmus\" between God and the world. Ibn 'Arabi's story of Prophet Khalid is a story of Perfect Human being.\n\nKhalid's story is of a Prophet whose message never emerged because before he died, he told his sons to open his tomb forty days after his death to receive the message of Barzakh. The sons, however, feared they would be looked down upon for opening their dead father's tomb, therefore they decided not to exhume their father. Thus, his message was never shared. An Ottoman Scholar explained that for Khalid to give the knowledge of Barzakh he would have to travel through the different worlds and then return, but because he was not exhumed, his message was never heard. Ibn 'Arabi explains that because this mission ended in failure, it does not conflict with The Prophet Mohammed’s statement: “ am nearest of men to Jesus son of Mary, for there is no prophet between him and me.\"\n\nThe idea of Barzakh in Shia is significant though in a perspective and manner different from Sufism. The Prophet and Shia Imams, particularly the 6th Imam - Imam Jafar As-Sadiq, have explained through various hadiths the treatment, condition, processes, and other intricate details regarding the passage of Barzakh. In Shia theology, there are 7 checkpoints in Barzakh. The first being kindness/trust/wilayah. Second is salaat. Third is zakaat/khums. Fourth is fasting. Fifth is hajj. Sixth is cleanliness. Seventh is rights. It is believed that the terms and conditions to understand Barzakh are limited in scope and full comprehension because it is Shia's belief that it is incomprehensible, to a certain degree, until one actually reaches the realm beyond our physical world. A common analogy used is that of a baby in the womb. Just as the baby cannot possibly begin to understand the vast outside world until they experience it for themselves, we cannot hope to understand what Barzakh entails until we transition there ourselves. Though despite this obstacle, the Shia Imams, as cited through various sayings, have explained Barzakh to a significant degree as compared to other sects within Islam.\n\nThe term has also found its way into more contemporary, non-religious sectors of life. At least three bands have adopted the name Barzakh, including an Indonesian Jakarta black metal band, a Tunisian Oriental metal band and Naqash Ali Shawkat band. Additionally, Barzakh was used as the title of a 2011 documentary following citizens of a war-torn Chechan community searching for a lost friend who they believe may have transitioned from our physical world to the realm of Barzakh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29834362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29834362", "title": "Biofunctionalisation", "text": "Biofunctionalisation\n\nIn the field of bioengineering, biofunctionalisation (or biofunctionalization) is the modification of a material to have biological function and/or stimulus, whether permanent or temporary while at the same time being biologically compatible.\n\nVarious types of medical implants are designed to biofunctionalize so that they can replace or repair a defective biological function and are accepted by the host organism.\n"}
{"id": "11963911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11963911", "title": "Blondy's Dude", "text": "Blondy's Dude\n\nBlondy's Dude (1957–1981) was an influential Quarter Horse show horse and sire.\n\nBlondy's Dude was a 1957 sorrel stallion sired by Small Town Dude and out of Blondy Queen. His sire was a son of King P-234 and his dam was a descendant of Plaudit.\n\nBlondy's Dude was an American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA) Champion and a Performance Register of Merit earner. Morgan Freeman bought him in 1961, after seeing him at a reining competition as well as at an informal cutting. The horse earned 45 Halter points as well as four cutting and eight reining points with the AQHA. Morgan's son Jerald said that Blondy's Dude was very much a people horse, that he liked to follow people around.\n\nAmong Blondy's Dude's famous offspring were Mighty Blonde, Small Town Babe, Dude's Ann, Okie Star Dude, Hy Fashion Blond, and Dude's Baby Doll. Among his famous grandget was Diamonds Sparkle. His offspring earned twenty-five AQHA Championships, along with Superior Performance horse awards and many Performance Register of Merits. Three of his foals earned year end High Point Awards with the AQHA, and one was a multiple times World Champion at the Youth World Show. His offspring excelled in many different disciplines, having earned Superior Performance awards in Western Pleasure, Reining, Barrel Racing, Hunter Under Saddle, Trail, Roping, and Pole Bending.\n\nBlondy's Dude was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame in 2001. He died in 1981 and was buried in Morgan Freeman's front yard in the town of Skiatook, Oklahoma with a marker stating \"God gives his best to those that leave the choice to him. Owned and Loved by Morgan Freeman.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "415016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415016", "title": "Blood substitute", "text": "Blood substitute\n\nA blood substitute (also called artificial blood or blood surrogate) is a substance used to mimic and fulfill some functions of biological blood. It aims to provide an alternative to blood transfusion, which is transferring blood or blood-based products from one person into another. Thus far, there are no well-accepted \"oxygen-carrying\" blood substitutes, which is the typical objective of a red blood cell transfusion; however, there are widely available non-blood volume expanders for cases where only volume restoration is required. These are helping doctors and surgeons avoid the risks of disease transmission and immune suppression, address the chronic blood donor shortage, and address the concerns of Jehovah's Witnesses and others who have religious objections to receiving transfused blood.\n\nThe main categories of 'oxygen-carrying' blood substitutes being pursued are hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOC) and perfluorocarbon-based oxygen carriers (PFBOC). Oxygen therapeutics are in clinical trials in the U.S. and Europe, and Hemopure is available in South Africa.\n\nAfter William Harvey discovered blood pathways in 1616, many people tried to use fluids such as beer, urine, milk, and non-human animal blood as blood substitute. Sir Christopher Wren (17th century) suggested wine and opium as blood substitute.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the development of modern transfusion medicine initiated through the work of Landsteiner and co-authors opened the possibility to understanding the general principle of blood group serology. Simultaneously, significant progress was made in the fields of heart and circulation physiology as well as in the understanding of the mechanism of oxygen transport and tissue oxygenation.\n\nRestrictions in applied transfusion medicine, especially in disaster situations such as World War Two, laid the grounds for accelerated research in the field of blood substitutes. Early attempts and optimism in developing blood substitutes were very quickly confronted with significant side effects, which could not be promptly eliminated due to the level of knowledge and technology available at that time. The emergence of HIV in the 1980s renewed impetus for development of infection-safe blood substitutes. Public concern about the safety of the blood supply was raised further by mad cow disease. The continuous decline of blood donation combined with the increased demand for blood transfusion (increased ageing of population, increased incidence of invasive diagnostic, chemotherapy and extensive surgical interventions, terror attacks, international military conflicts) and positive estimation of investors in biotechnology branch made for a positive environment for further development of blood substitutes.\n\nEfforts to develop blood substitutes have been driven by a desire to replace blood transfusion in emergency situations, in places where infectious disease is endemic and the risk of contaminated blood products is high, where refrigeration to preserve blood may be lacking, and where it might not be possible or convenient to find blood type matches.\n\nEfforts having focused on molecules that can carry oxygen, and most work has focused on recombinant hemoglobin, which normally carries oxygen, and perfluorocarbons (PFC), chemical compounds which can carry and release oxygen.\n\nThe first approved oxygen-carrying blood substitute was a perfluorocarbon-based product called Fluosol-DA-20, manufactured by Green Cross of Japan. It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1989. Because of limited success, complexity of use and side effects, it was withdrawn in 1994. However, Fluosol-DA remains the only oxygen therapeutic ever fully approved by the FDA. As of 2017 no haemoglobin-based product had been approved.\n\nPerfluorochemicals are not water soluble, so will not mix with blood, therefore emulsions must be made by dispersing small drops of PFC in water. This liquid is then mixed with antibiotics, vitamins, nutrients and salts, producing a mixture that contains about 80 different components, and performs many of the vital functions of natural blood. PFC particles are about th the size of the diameter of a red blood cell (RBC). This small size can enable PFC particles to traverse capillaries through which no RBCs are flowing. In theory this can benefit damaged, blood-starved tissue, which conventional red cells cannot reach. PFC solutions can carry oxygen so well that mammals, including humans, can survive breathing liquid PFC solution, called liquid breathing.\n\nPerfluorocarbon-based blood substitutes are completely man-made; this provides advantages over blood substitutes that rely on modified haemoglobin, such as unlimited manufacturing capabilities, ability to be heat-sterilized, and PFCs' efficient oxygen delivery and carbon dioxide removal. PFCs in solution act as an intravascular oxygen carrier to temporarily augment oxygen delivery to tissues. PFCs are removed from the bloodstream within 48 hours by the body's normal clearance procedure for particles in the blood – exhalation. PFC particles in solution can carry several times more oxygen per cubic centimeter (cc) than blood, while being 40 to 50 times smaller than haemoglobin.\n\nFluosol was made mostly of perfluorodecalin or perfluorotributylamine suspended in an albumin emulsion. It was developed in Japan and first tested in the United States in November 1979. In order to \"load\" sufficient amounts of oxygen into it, people who had been given it had to breathe pure oxygen by mask or in a hyperbaric chamber. It was approved by the FDA in 1989, and was approved in eight other countries. Its use was associated with a reduction in ischemic complications and with an increase in pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure. Due to difficulty with the emulsion storage of Fluosol use (frozen storage and rewarming), its popularity declined and its production ended in 1994.\n\nOxygent was a second-generation, lecithin-stabilized emulsion of a PFC that was under development by Alliance Pharmaceuticals. In 2002 a Phase III study was halted early due an increase in incidences of strokes in the study arm.\n\nHaemoglobin is the main component of red blood cells, comprising about 33% of the cell mass. Haemoglobin-based products are called haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs).\n\nUnmodified cell-free haemoglobin is not useful as a blood substitute because its oxygen affinity is too high for effective tissue oxygenation, the half-life within the intravascular space that is too short to be clinically useful, it has a tendency to undergo dissociation in dimers with resultant kidney damage and toxicity, and because free haemoglobin tends to take up nitric oxide, causing vasoconstriction.\n\nEfforts to overcome this toxicity have included making genetically engineered versions, cross-linking, polymerization, and encapsulation.\n\nHemAssist, a diaspirin cross-linked haemoglobin (DCLHb) was developed by Baxter Healthcare; it was the most widely studied of the haemoglobin-based blood substitutes, used in more than a dozen animal and clinical studies. It reached Phase III clinical trials, in which failed due to increased mortality in the trial arm, mostly due to severe vasoconstriction complications. The results were published in 1999.\n\nHemolink (Hemosol, Inc., Mississauga, Canada) was a haemoglobin solution that contained cross-linked an o-rafinose polymerised human haemoglobin, which struggled after Phase II trials were halted in 2003 on safety concerns. It declared bankruptcy in 2005.\n\nHemopure was developed by Biopure Corp and was a chemically stabilized, cross-linked bovine (cow) haemoglobin in a salt solution intended for human use; the company developed the same product under the trade name Oxyglobin for veterinary use in dogs. Oxyglobin was approved in the US and Europe and was introduced to veterinary clinics and hospitals in March 1998. Hemopure was approved in South Africa but that approval was revoked and Biopure filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009. Its assets were subsequently purchased by OPK Biotech.\n\nPolyHeme was developed over 20 years by Northfield Laboratories and began as a military project following the Vietnam War. It is human haemoglobin, extracted from red blood cells, then polymerized, then incorporated into an electrolyte solution. In April 2009, the FDA rejected Northfield's Biologic License Application and in June 2009, Northfield filed for bankruptcy.\n\nDextran-Haemoglobin was developed by Dextro-Sang Corp as a veterinary product, and was a conjugate of the polymer dextran with human haemoglobin.\n\nHemotech was developed by HemoBiotech and was a chemically modified haemoglobin.\n\nSomatogen developed a genetically engineered and crosslinked tetramer it called Optro. It failed in a phase II trial that was published in 2014 and development was halted.\n\nA pyridoxylated Hb conjugated with polyoxyethylene was created by scientists at Ajinomoto and eventually developed by Apex Biosciences, a subsidiary of Curacyte AG; it was called \"PHP\" and failed in a Phase III trial published in 2014, due to increased mortality in the control arm, which led to Curacyte shutting down.\n\nSimilarly, Hemospan was developed by Sangart, and was a pegylated haemoglobin provided in a powdered form. While early trials were promising Sangart ran out of funding and closed down.\n\nStem cells offer a possible means of producing transfusable blood. A study performed by Giarratana et al. describes a large-scale ex-vivo production of mature human blood cells using hematopoietic stem cells. The cultured cells possessed the same haemoglobin content and morphology as native red blood cells. The authors contend that the cells had a near-normal lifespan, when compared to natural red blood cells.\n\nScientists from the experimental arm of the United States Department of Defense began creating artificial blood for use in remote areas and transfuse blood to wounded soldiers more quickly in 2010. The blood is made from the hematopoietic stem cells removed from umbilical cord between the mother and fetus of humans after birth using a method called blood pharming. Pharming has been used in the past on animals and plants to create medical substances in large quantities. Each cord can produce approximately 20 units of blood or three blood transfusions. The blood is being produced for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency by Arteriocyte. The Food and Drug Administration has examined and approved the safety of this blood from previously submitted O-negative blood. Using this particular artificial blood will reduce the costs per unit of blood from $5,000 to equal or less than $1,000. This blood will also serve as a blood donor to all blood types. Pharmed blood may be used in human trials in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43063378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43063378", "title": "Brooklyn Supreme", "text": "Brooklyn Supreme\n\nBrooklyn \"Brookie\" Supreme (April 12, 1928 – September 6, 1948) was a red roan Belgian stallion noted for his extreme size. Although disputed, the horse may be the world record holder for largest (but not tallest) horse and was designated the world's heaviest horse. He stood 19.2 hands () tall and weighed with a girth of . His horseshoes required of iron.\n\nThe horse was foaled on the Minneapolis, Minnesota farm of Earle Brown, who first exhibited him. Before becoming oversized, the stallion \"had been Grand Champion of his breed in many state fairs\". One of his great-grandfathers was another famous horse, Farceur 7332.\n\nFor much of his fame, Brooklyn Supreme was owned by Charles Grant Good of Ogden, Iowa; Ralph M. Fogleman of Callender, Iowa partnered with Good and exhibited the horse around the US, charging spectators 10 cents to view the animal.\n"}
{"id": "34141415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34141415", "title": "Bruno Bianchi (cartoonist)", "text": "Bruno Bianchi (cartoonist)\n\nBruno Bianchi (, 1955 – 2 December 2011) was a French cartoonist and animation director. Bianchi worked extensively as an artist, director and producer on animated television productions; including \"Heathcliff\", \"Iznogoud\" and most notably, \"Inspector Gadget\", which he also co-created.\n\nBianchi started his career at DiC Audiovisuel (later DiC Entertainment) in 1977 as a cel painter, then gradually assumed creative positions. His first director's credit was on the 1980 edutainment mini-series \"Archibald le Magichien\" (directly translated: \"Archibald the Magic Dog\"). In 1983, Bianchi scored his first major directing job on \"Inspector Gadget\", a series he co-created with Andy Heyward and DiC's founder Jean Chalopin. Bianchi served as main character designer and supervising director on the show, which became one of the most iconic series produced by DiC.\n\nSubsequently, Bianchi worked as a director, producer and designer on numerous other DiC Entertainment, Saban Entertainment and SIP Animation television animation productions from the 1980s until the mid-2000s. His credits include \"Heathcliff\" (where he co-created the \"Cats and Company\" characters together with Jean Chalopin), \"Jayce and the Wheeled Warriors\", \"M.A.S.K.\", \"Rainbow Brite\", \"Diplodos\" (which he co-created and co-wrote with Jean Chalopin), \"Iznogoud\", \"Princess Sissi\" and \"Gadget & the Gadgetinis\" (a spinoff of \"Inspector Gadget\").\n\nIn 2008, following the closure of SIP Animation, Bianchi founded his own studio, Ginkgo Animation. One of Ginkgo's projects had been \"George and Me\" (French title \"Georges et Moi\"), an adaptation of a 2006 Soleil Productions comic series that had first been picked up by SIP Animation as early as December 2007, and had been planned to start production at SIP at the beginning of 2009. However, by April 2011 this venture of Ginkgo's was considered unsuccessful due to changing priorities in the French animation industry, according to one of the authors of the original comics.\n\nBianchi died on 2 December 2011 at the age of 56. He was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris on 6 December 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381434", "title": "Budding", "text": "Budding\n\nBudding is a type of asexual reproduction in which a new organism develops from an outgrowth or bud due to cell division at one particular site. The small bulb like projection coming out from the yeast cell is called a bud. The new organism remains attached as it grows, separating from the parent organism only when it is mature, leaving behind scar tissue. Since the reproduction is asexual, the newly created organism is a clone and is genetically identical to the parent organism.\n\nOrganisms such as hydra use regenerative cells for reproduction in the process of budding.\nIn hydra, a bud develops as an outgrowth due to repeated cell division at one specific site. These buds develop into tiny individuals and, when fully mature, detach from the parent body and become new independent individuals.\n\nInternal budding or endodyogeny is a process of asexual reproduction, favoured by parasites such as \"Toxoplasma gondii\". It involves an unusual process in which two daughter cells are produced inside a mother cell, which is then consumed by the offspring prior to their separation.\n\nEndopolygeny is the division into several organisms at once by internal budding.\n\nSome cells divide asymmetrically by budding, for example \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", the yeast species used in baking and brewing. This process results in a 'mother' cell and a smaller 'daughter' cell. Cryo-electron tomography recently revealed that mitochondria in cells divide by budding.\n\nIn some multicellular animals, offspring may develop as outgrowths of the mother. Animals that reproduce by budding include corals, some sponges, some acoel flatworms (e.g., \"Convolutriloba\"), and echinoderm larvae.\n\nColonies of some bee species have also exhibited budding behavior, such as \"Apis dorsata\". Although budding behavior is rare in this bee species, it has been observed when a group of workers leave the natal nest and construct a new nest usually near the natal one.\n\nIn virology, \"budding\" is a form of viral shedding by which enveloped viruses acquire their external envelope from the host cell membrane, which bulges outwards and encloses the virion.\n\nIn agriculture and horticulture, budding refers to grafting the bud of one plant onto another.\n\n"}
{"id": "13675841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675841", "title": "Capital punishment in Azerbaijan", "text": "Capital punishment in Azerbaijan\n\nThe last execution took place in Azerbaijan in 1993 by method of single shot. Capital punishment was abolished in 1998. Protocol No. 6 to the ECHR came into force in this country on the 25th of January 2001 and the death penalty was replaced with life imprisonment. \n\n"}
{"id": "12871521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12871521", "title": "Carpinus putoensis", "text": "Carpinus putoensis\n\nCarpinus putoensis (Putuo hornbeam, ) is a species of plant in the Corylaceae family. It is a small tree, up to tall.\n\nIt is endemic to Zhoushan archipelago in China where it survives as a single tree on Putuo Island. It is monoecious, thereby in principle still able to reproduce sexually in the wild. According to Edward O. Wilson, this is an example of what conservation biologists call \"living dead\" species.\n\n"}
{"id": "17671459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17671459", "title": "Casshan: Robot Hunter", "text": "Casshan: Robot Hunter\n\nCasshan: Robot Hunter, known in Japan as or simply , is an original video animation (OVA) series that was directed by Hiroyuki Fukushima, produced by Tatsunoko and Gainax, and animated by Artmic. The OVA was later adapted into an English-language dubbed film that was directed by Carl Macek. This series is based on Tatsunoko Productions' 1973 anime series \"Neo-Human Casshern\".\n\nEnslaved by an army of rebellious super-robots originally designed to help civilization avert a complete ecological cataclysm, mankind's only hope is Casshan, a legendary hero who wages a solitary war to defeat the NEOROIDS and restore the Earth to its rightful order. Casshan's father is the scientist who engineered the race of super androids now threatening to destroy all of mankind. On a crusade to save humankind and clear his father's name, Casshan must sacrifice his own humanity in order to attain the powers he needs. Haunted by the memories of his murdered mother and forced to deal with a super robot that has absorbed the consciousness of his father, Casshan must put aside his own emotions and fight to preserve the survival of the human race.\n\n\"Casshan: Robot Hunter\" was originally released as a four-volume series in Japan between August 21, 1993 and February 21, 1994. The American publisher Harmony Gold USA edited the four episodes into a single feature film for its English-language debut in 1995. In 2003, ADV Films re-released the four-episode series on DVD. The title sequence for the OVA translates the katakana \"\"キャシャーン\" as \"Casshan\"\". This was repeated in the American adaptation by Harmony Gold.\n\nHelen McCarthy praised the work of top designer Yasuomi Umetsu and says that anime \"holds your attention with interesting concept and designs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "152611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152611", "title": "Cellular differentiation", "text": "Cellular differentiation\n\nIn developmental biology, cellular differentiation is the process where a cell changes from one cell type to another. Most commonly the cell changes to a more specialized type. Differentiation occurs numerous times during the development of a multicellular organism as it changes from a simple zygote to a complex system of tissues and cell types. Differentiation continues in adulthood as adult stem cells divide and create fully differentiated daughter cells during tissue repair and during normal cell turnover. Some differentiation occurs in response to antigen exposure. Differentiation dramatically changes a cell's size, shape, membrane potential, metabolic activity, and responsiveness to signals. These changes are largely due to highly controlled modifications in gene expression and are the study of epigenetics. With a few exceptions, cellular differentiation almost never involves a change in the DNA sequence itself. Thus, different cells can have very different physical characteristics despite having the same genome.\n\nA specialized type of differentiation, known as 'terminal differentiation', is of importance in some tissues, for example vertebrate nervous system, striated muscle, epidermis and gut. During terminal differentiation a precursor cell formerly capable of cell division, permanently leaves the cell cycle, dismantles the cell cycle machinery and often expresses a range of genes characteristic of the cell's final function (e.g. myosin and actin for a muscle cell). Differentiation may continue to occur after terminal differentiation if the capacity and functions of the cell undergo further changes.\n\nAmong dividing cells, there are multiple levels of cell potency, the cell's ability to differentiate into other cell types. A greater potency indicates a larger number of cell types that can be derived. A cell that can differentiate into all cell types, including the placental tissue, is known as \"totipotent\". In mammals, only the zygote and subsequent blastomeres are totipotent, while in plants many differentiated cells can become totipotent with simple laboratory techniques. A cell that can differentiate into all cell types of the adult organism is known as \"pluripotent\". Such cells are called meristematic cells in higher plants and embryonic stem cells in animals, though some groups report the presence of adult pluripotent cells. Virally induced expression of four transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc, and KIF4 (Yamanaka factors) is sufficient to create pluripotent (iPS) cells from adult fibroblasts. A multipotent cell is one that can differentiate into multiple different, but closely related cell types. Oligopotent cells are more restricted than multipotent, but can still differentiate into a few closely related cell types. Finally, unipotent cells can differentiate into only one cell type, but are capable of self-renewal. In cytopathology, the level of cellular differentiation is used as a measure of cancer progression. \"Grade\" is a marker of how differentiated a cell in a tumor is.\n\nThree basic categories of cells make up the mammalian body: germ cells, somatic cells, and stem cells. Each of the approximately 37.2 trillion (3.72x10) cells in an adult human has its own copy or copies of the genome except certain cell types, such as red blood cells, that lack nuclei in their fully differentiated state. Most cells are diploid; they have two copies of each chromosome. Such cells, called somatic cells, make up most of the human body, such as skin and muscle cells. Cells differentiate to specialize for different functions.\n\nGerm line cells are any line of cells that give rise to gametes—eggs and sperm—and thus are continuous through the generations. Stem cells, on the other hand, have the ability to divide for indefinite periods and to give rise to specialized cells. They are best described in the context of normal human development. \nDevelopment begins when a sperm fertilizes an egg and creates a single cell that has the potential to form an entire organism. In the first hours after fertilization, this cell divides into identical cells. In humans, approximately four days after fertilization and after several cycles of cell division, these cells begin to specialize, forming a hollow sphere of cells, called a blastocyst. The blastocyst has an outer layer of cells, and inside this hollow sphere, there is a cluster of cells called the inner cell mass. The cells of the inner cell mass go on to form virtually all of the tissues of the human body. Although the cells of the inner cell mass can form virtually every type of cell found in the human body, they cannot form an organism. These cells are referred to as pluripotent.\n\nPluripotent stem cells undergo further specialization into multipotent progenitor cells that then give rise to functional cells. Examples of stem and progenitor cells include: \nA pathway that is guided by the cell adhesion molecules consisting of four amino acids, arginine, glycine, asparagine, and serine, is created as the cellular blastomere differentiates from the single-layered blastula to the three primary layers of germ cells in mammals, namely the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm (listed from most distal (exterior) to proximal (interior)). The ectoderm ends up forming the skin and the nervous system, the mesoderm forms the bones and muscular tissue, and the endoderm forms the internal organ tissues.\n\nDedifferentiation, or integration is a cellular process often seen in more basal life forms such as worms and amphibians in which a partially or terminally differentiated cell reverts to an earlier developmental stage, usually as part of a regenerative process. Dedifferentiation also occurs in plants. Cells in cell culture can lose properties they originally had, such as protein expression, or change shape. This process is also termed dedifferentiation.\n\nSome believe dedifferentiation is an aberration of the normal development cycle that results in cancer, whereas others believe it to be a natural part of the immune response lost by humans at some point as a result of evolution.\n\nA small molecule dubbed reversine, a purine analog, has been discovered that has proven to induce dedifferentiation in myotubes. These dedifferentiated cells could then redifferentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes.\n\nEach specialized cell type in an organism expresses a subset of all the genes that constitute the genome of that species. Each cell type is defined by its particular pattern of regulated gene expression. Cell differentiation is thus a transition of a cell from one cell type to another and it involves a switch from one pattern of gene expression to another. Cellular differentiation during development can be understood as the result of a gene regulatory network. A regulatory gene and its cis-regulatory modules are nodes in a gene regulatory network; they receive input and create output elsewhere in the network. The systems biology approach to developmental biology emphasizes the importance of investigating how developmental mechanisms interact to produce predictable patterns (morphogenesis). (However, an alternative view has been proposed recently. Based on stochastic gene expression, cellular differentiation is the result of a Darwinian selective process occurring among cells. In this frame, protein and gene networks are the result of cellular processes and not their cause. See: Cellular Darwinism)\nA few evolutionarily conserved types of molecular processes are often involved in the cellular mechanisms that control these switches. The major types of molecular processes that control cellular differentiation involve cell signaling. Many of the signal molecules that convey information from cell to cell during the control of cellular differentiation are called growth factors. Although the details of specific signal transduction pathways vary, these pathways often share the following general steps. A ligand produced by one cell binds to a receptor in the extracellular region of another cell, inducing a conformational change in the receptor. The shape of the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor changes, and the receptor acquires enzymatic activity. The receptor then catalyzes reactions that phosphorylate other proteins, activating them. A cascade of phosphorylation reactions eventually activates a dormant transcription factor or cytoskeletal protein, thus contributing to the differentiation process in the target cell. Cells and tissues can vary in competence, their ability to respond to external signals.\n\nSignal induction refers to cascades of signaling events, during which a cell or tissue signals to another cell or tissue to influence its developmental fate. Yamamoto and Jeffery investigated the role of the lens in eye formation in cave- and surface-dwelling fish, a striking example of induction. Through reciprocal transplants, Yamamoto and Jeffery found that the lens vesicle of surface fish can induce other parts of the eye to develop in cave- and surface-dwelling fish, while the lens vesicle of the cave-dwelling fish cannot.\n\nOther important mechanisms fall under the category of asymmetric cell divisions, divisions that give rise to daughter cells with distinct developmental fates. Asymmetric cell divisions can occur because of asymmetrically expressed maternal cytoplasmic determinants or because of signaling. In the former mechanism, distinct daughter cells are created during cytokinesis because of an uneven distribution of regulatory molecules in the parent cell; the distinct cytoplasm that each daughter cell inherits results in a distinct pattern of differentiation for each daughter cell. A well-studied example of pattern formation by asymmetric divisions is body axis patterning in Drosophila. RNA molecules are an important type of intracellular differentiation control signal. The molecular and genetic basis of asymmetric cell divisions has also been studied in green algae of the genus \"Volvox\", a model system for studying how unicellular organisms can evolve into multicellular organisms. In \"Volvox carteri\", the 16 cells in the anterior hemisphere of a 32-cell embryo divide asymmetrically, each producing one large and one small daughter cell. The size of the cell at the end of all cell divisions determines whether it becomes a specialized germ or somatic cell.\n\nSince each cell, regardless of cell type, possesses the same genome, determination of cell type must occur at the level of gene expression. While the regulation of gene expression can occur through cis- and trans-regulatory elements including a gene's promoter and enhancers, the problem arises as to how this expression pattern is maintained over numerous generations of cell division. As it turns out, epigenetic processes play a crucial role in regulating the decision to adopt a stem, progenitor, or mature cell fate. This section will focus primarily on mammalian stem cells.\n\nIn systems biology and mathematical modeling of gene regulatory networks, cell-fate determination is predicted to exhibit certain dynamics, such as attractor-convergence (the attractor can be an equilibrium point, limit cycle or strange attractor) or oscillatory.\n\nThe first question that can be asked is the extent and complexity of the role of epigenetic processes in the determination of cell fate. A clear answer to this question can be seen in the 2011 paper by Lister R, \"et al.\" on aberrant epigenomic programming in human induced pluripotent stem cells. As induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are thought to mimic embryonic stem cells in their pluripotent properties, few epigenetic differences should exist between them. To test this prediction, the authors conducted whole-genome profiling of DNA methylation patterns in several human embryonic stem cell (ESC), iPSC, and progenitor cell lines.\n\nFemale adipose cells, lung fibroblasts, and foreskin fibroblasts were reprogrammed into induced pluripotent state with the OCT4, SOX2, KLF4, and MYC genes. Patterns of DNA methylation in ESCs, iPSCs, somatic cells were compared. Lister R, \"et al.\" observed significant resemblance in methylation levels between embryonic and induced pluripotent cells. Around 80% of CG dinucleotides in ESCs and iPSCs were methylated, the same was true of only 60% of CG dinucleotides in somatic cells. In addition, somatic cells possessed minimal levels of cytosine methylation in non-CG dinucleotides, while induced pluripotent cells possessed similar levels of methylation as embryonic stem cells, between 0.5 and 1.5%. Thus, consistent with their respective transcriptional activities, DNA methylation patterns, at least on the genomic level, are similar between ESCs and iPSCs.\n\nHowever, upon examining methylation patterns more closely, the authors discovered 1175 regions of differential CG dinucleotide methylation between at least one ES or iPS cell line. By comparing these regions of differential methylation with regions of cytosine methylation in the original somatic cells, 44-49% of differentially methylated regions reflected methylation patterns of the respective progenitor somatic cells, while 51-56% of these regions were dissimilar to both the progenitor and embryonic cell lines. In vitro-induced differentiation of iPSC lines saw transmission of 88% and 46% of hyper and hypo-methylated differentially methylated regions, respectively.\n\nTwo conclusions are readily apparent from this study. First, epigenetic processes are heavily involved in cell fate determination, as seen from the similar levels of cytosine methylation between induced pluripotent and embryonic stem cells, consistent with their respective patterns of transcription. Second, the mechanisms of de-differentiation (and by extension, differentiation) are very complex and cannot be easily duplicated, as seen by the significant number of differentially methylated regions between ES and iPS cell lines. Now that these two points have been established, we can examine some of the epigenetic mechanisms that are thought to regulate cellular differentiation.\n\nThree transcription factors, OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG – the first two of which are used in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming, along with Klf4 and c-Myc – are highly expressed in undifferentiated embryonic stem cells and are necessary for the maintenance of their pluripotency. It is thought that they achieve this through alterations in chromatin structure, such as histone modification and DNA methylation, to restrict or permit the transcription of target genes. While highly expressed, their levels require a precise balance to maintain pluripotency, perturbation of which will promote differentiation towards different lineages based on how the gene expression levels change. Differential regulation of Oct-4 and SOX2 levels have been shown to precede germ layer fate selection. Increased levels of Oct4 and decreased levels of Sox2 promote a mesendodermal fate, with Oct4 actively suppressing genes associated with a neural ectodermal fate. Similarly, Increased levels of Sox2 and decreased levels of Oct4 promote differentiation towards a neural ectodermal fate, with Sox2 inhibiting differentiation towards a mesendodermal fate. Regardless of the lineage cells differentiate down, suppression of NANOG has been identified as a necessary prerequisite for differentiation.\n\nIn the realm of gene silencing, Polycomb repressive complex 2, one of two classes of the Polycomb group (PcG) family of proteins, catalyzes the di- and tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me2/me3). By binding to the H3K27me2/3-tagged nucleosome, PRC1 (also a complex of PcG family proteins) catalyzes the mono-ubiquitinylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 (H2AK119Ub1), blocking RNA polymerase II activity and resulting in transcriptional suppression. PcG knockout ES cells do not differentiate efficiently into the three germ layers, and deletion of the PRC1 and PRC2 genes leads to increased expression of lineage-affiliated genes and unscheduled differentiation. Presumably, PcG complexes are responsible for transcriptionally repressing differentiation and development-promoting genes.\n\nAlternately, upon receiving differentiation signals, PcG proteins are recruited to promoters of pluripotency transcription factors. PcG-deficient ES cells can begin differentiation but cannot maintain the differentiated phenotype. Simultaneously, differentiation and development-promoting genes are activated by Trithorax group (TrxG) chromatin regulators and lose their repression. TrxG proteins are recruited at regions of high transcriptional activity, where they catalyze the trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me3) and promote gene activation through histone acetylation. PcG and TrxG complexes engage in direct competition and are thought to be functionally antagonistic, creating at differentiation and development-promoting loci what is termed a \"bivalent domain\" and rendering these genes sensitive to rapid induction or repression.\n\nRegulation of gene expression is further achieved through DNA methylation, in which the DNA methyltransferase-mediated methylation of cytosine residues in CpG dinucleotides maintains heritable repression by controlling DNA accessibility. The majority of CpG sites in embryonic stem cells are unmethylated and appear to be associated with H3K4me3-carrying nucleosomes. Upon differentiation, a small number of genes, including OCT4 and NANOG, are methylated and their promoters repressed to prevent their further expression. Consistently, DNA methylation-deficient embryonic stem cells rapidly enter apoptosis upon in vitro differentiation.\n\nWhile the DNA sequence of most cells of an organism is the same, the binding patterns of transcription factors and the corresponding gene expression patterns are different. To a large extent, differences in transcription factor binding are determined by the chromatin accessibility of their binding sites through histone modification and/or pioneer factors. In particular, it is important to know whether a nucleosome is covering a given genomic binding site or not. This can be determined using a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay.\n\nDNA-nucleosome interactions are characterized by two states: either tightly bound by nucleosomes and transcriptionally inactive, called heterochromatin, or loosely bound and usually, but not always, transcriptionally active, called euchromatin. The epigenetic processes of histone methylation and acetylation, and their inverses demethylation and deacetylation primarily account for these changes. The effects of acetylation and deacetylation are more predictable. An acetyl group is either added to or removed from the positively charged Lysine residues in histones by enzymes called histone acetyltransferases or histone deacteylases, respectively. The acetyl group prevents Lysine's association with the negatively charged DNA backbone. Methylation is not as straightforward, as neither methylation nor demethylation consistently correlate with either gene activation or repression. However, certain methylations have been repeatedly shown to either activate or repress genes. The trimethylation of lysine 4 on histone 3 (H3K4Me3) is associated with gene activation, whereas trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone 3 represses genes\n\nDuring differentiation, stem cells change their gene expression profiles. Recent studies have implicated a role for nucleosome positioning and histone modifications during this process. There are two components of this process: turning off the expression of embryonic stem cell (ESC) genes, and the activation of cell fate genes. Lysine specific demethylase 1 (KDM1A) is thought to prevent the use of enhancer regions of pluripotency genes, thereby inhibiting their transcription. It interacts with Mi-2/NuRD complex (nucleosome remodelling and histone deacetylase) complex, giving an instance where methylation and acetylation are not discrete and mutually exclusive, but intertwined processes.\n\nA final question to ask concerns the role of cell signaling in influencing the epigenetic processes governing differentiation. Such a role should exist, as it would be reasonable to think that extrinsic signaling can lead to epigenetic remodeling, just as it can lead to changes in gene expression through the activation or repression of different transcription factors. Little direct data is available concerning the specific signals that influence the epigenome, and the majority of current knowledge about the subject consists of speculations on plausible candidate regulators of epigenetic remodeling. We will first discuss several major candidates thought to be involved in the induction and maintenance of both embryonic stem cells and their differentiated progeny, and then turn to one example of specific signaling pathways in which more direct evidence exists for its role in epigenetic change.\n\nThe first major candidate is Wnt signaling pathway. The Wnt pathway is involved in all stages of differentiation, and the ligand Wnt3a can substitute for the overexpression of c-Myc in the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells. On the other hand, disruption of ß-catenin, a component of the Wnt signaling pathway, leads to decreased proliferation of neural progenitors.\n\nGrowth factors comprise the second major set of candidates of epigenetic regulators of cellular differentiation. These morphogens are crucial for development, and include bone morphogenetic proteins, transforming growth factors (TGFs), and fibroblast growth factors (FGFs). TGFs and FGFs have been shown to sustain expression of OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG by downstream signaling to Smad proteins. Depletion of growth factors promotes the differentiation of ESCs, while genes with bivalent chromatin can become either more restrictive or permissive in their transcription.\n\nSeveral other signaling pathways are also considered to be primary candidates. Cytokine leukemia inhibitory factors are associated with the maintenance of mouse ESCs in an undifferentiated state. This is achieved through its activation of the Jak-STAT3 pathway, which has been shown to be necessary and sufficient towards maintaining mouse ESC pluripotency. Retinoic acid can induce differentiation of human and mouse ESCs, and Notch signaling is involved in the proliferation and self-renewal of stem cells. Finally, Sonic hedgehog, in addition to its role as a morphogen, promotes embryonic stem cell differentiation and the self-renewal of somatic stem cells.\n\nThe problem, of course, is that the candidacy of these signaling pathways was inferred primarily on the basis of their role in development and cellular differentiation. While epigenetic regulation is necessary for driving cellular differentiation, they are certainly not sufficient for this process. Direct modulation of gene expression through modification of transcription factors plays a key role that must be distinguished from heritable epigenetic changes that can persist even in the absence of the original environmental signals. Only a few examples of signaling pathways leading to epigenetic changes that alter cell fate currently exist, and we will focus on one of them.\n\nExpression of Shh (Sonic hedgehog) upregulates the production of BMI1, a component of the PcG complex that recognizes H3K27me3. This occurs in a Gli-dependent manner, as Gli1 and Gli2 are downstream effectors of the Hedgehog signaling pathway. In culture, Bmi1 mediates the Hedgehog pathway's ability to promote human mammary stem cell self-renewal. In both humans and mice, researchers showed Bmi1 to be highly expressed in proliferating immature cerebellar granule cell precursors. When Bmi1 was knocked out in mice, impaired cerebellar development resulted, leading to significant reductions in postnatal brain mass along with abnormalities in motor control and behavior. A separate study showed a significant decrease in neural stem cell proliferation along with increased astrocyte proliferation in Bmi null mice.\n\nA alternative model of cellular differentiation during embryogenesis is that positional information is based on mechanical signalling by the cytoskeleton using Embryonic differentiation waves. The mechanical signal is then epigenetically transduced via signal transduction systems (of which specific molecules such as Wnt are part) to result in differential gene expression.\n\nIn summary, the role of signaling in the epigenetic control of cell fate in mammals is largely unknown, but distinct examples exist that indicate the likely existence of further such mechanisms.\n\nIn order to fulfill the purpose of regenerating a variety of tissues, adult stems are known to migrate from their niches, adhere to new extracellular matrices (ECM) and differentiate. The ductility of these microenvironments are unique to different tissue types. The ECM surrounding brain, muscle and bone tissues range from soft to stiff. The transduction of the stem cells into these cells types is not directed solely by chemokine cues and cell to cell signaling. The elasticity of the microenvironment can also affect the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs which originate in bone marrow.) When MSCs are placed on substrates of the same stiffness as brain, muscle and bone ECM, the MSCs take on properties of those respective cell types.\nMatrix sensing requires the cell to pull against the matrix at focal adhesions, which triggers a cellular mechano-transducer to generate a signal to be informed what force is needed to deform the matrix. To determine the key players in matrix-elasticity-driven lineage specification in MSCs, different matrix microenvironments were mimicked. From these experiments, it was concluded that focal adhesions of the MSCs were the cellular mechano-transducer sensing the differences of the matrix elasticity. The non-muscle myosin IIa-c isoforms generates the forces in the cell that lead to signaling of early commitment markers. Nonmuscle myosin IIa generates the least force increasing to non-muscle myosin IIc. There are also factors in the cell that inhibit non-muscle myosin II, such as blebbistatin. This makes the cell effectively blind to the surrounding matrix.\nResearchers have obtained some success in inducing stem cell-like properties in HEK 239 cells by providing a soft matrix without the use of diffusing factors. The stem-cell properties appear to be linked to tension in the cells' actin network. One identified mechanism for matrix-induced differentiation is tension-induced proteins, which remodel chromatin in response to mechanical stretch. The RhoA pathway is also implicated in this process.\n\n"}
{"id": "10617466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10617466", "title": "Condolences", "text": "Condolences\n\nCondolences (from Latin \"con\" (with) + \"dolere\" (sorrow)) are an expression of sympathy to someone who is experiencing pain arising from death, deep mental anguish, or misfortune.\n\nThe use of the word \"condolences\", in plural, is more common than \"condolence\". The reason for this habit is unclear, but it resembles our habit to send someone our 'regards', 'best wishes', greetings' (all plural), etc.\n\nWhen individuals condole, or offer their condolences to a particular situation or person, they are offering active, conscious support of that person or activity. This is often expressed by saying, \"Sorry\". Often, the English language expression \"My condolences\" will be in a context, such as death of a friend's loved one, in which the one offering condolences is communicating a feeling of pity towards the unfortunate party. Expressions of condolence may also be used as sarcasm if one considers the complaining person to be exaggerating their suffering, especially when they appear to consider as tragic something that is relatively insignificant.\n\nCondolence is not always expressed in sorrow or grievance, as it can also be used to acknowledge a fellow feeling or even a common opinion.\n\nThere are various ways of expressing condolences to the victims. Examples include donating money to the charity nominated by the person who has just died, writing in a condolences book or supporting the friends and family of the loved one by making meals and looking after them in various ways in times of need.\n\n"}
{"id": "1319023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1319023", "title": "David H. Murdock", "text": "David H. Murdock\n\nDavid Howard Murdock (born April 11, 1923) is an American businessman and philanthropist.\n\nMurdock was born on April 11, 1923, in Kansas City, Missouri. His father was a traveling salesman, while his mother took up laundry and scrubbed floors to make ends meet. He is the middle child of three; he had two sisters. He was particularly close to his mother, who died at 42 from cancer. He grew up in Montgomery Township, Ohio, and dropped out of high school in the 9th grade. He was drafted by the United States Army in 1943 during World War II.\n\nAfter relocating to Detroit after the war, Murdock was homeless and destitute. Due to a chance encounter with a good samaritan, however, he got a $1,200 loan to buy a closing diner, flipping it for a $700 profit ten months later. He moved to Phoenix, Arizona, and began working there first in housing and then commercial real estate.\n\nWhen the real estate market collapsed in the 1960s, he moved to Los Angeles where he continued developing real estate opportunities, leading to a string of acquisitions. In 1978 he acquired control of International Mining. In early 1980s he became the largest shareholder in L.A. based Occidental Petroleum, by selling the corporation his 18% share of the Iowa Beef Packers company.\n\nMurdock owned Cannon Mills in Kannapolis, North Carolina, from 1982, after the death of Charles Cannon, until 1985, when he sold the company to Fieldcrest.\n\nIn 1985 Murdock took over the nearly bankrupt Hawaiian firm Castle & Cooke, which owned pineapple and banana producer Dole Food Company. He developed Castle & Cooke's real estate portfolio into residential and commercial properties and turned Dole into the world's largest producer of fruits and vegetables. Acquiring Dole privately in 2003, Murdock completed a $446 million initial public offering in October 2009 and the company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker DOLE until a private merger agreement was approved October 31, 2013. As a result of his purchase of Castle & Cooke, Murdock acquired ownership of 98% of Lana'i, the sixth largest island in Hawaii. In June 2012 Murdock sold his interest in Lana'i to Larry Ellison. He owns other companies, including Pacific Clay.\n\nHe has helped contribute to the redevelopment of a complex in Kannapolis, North Carolina, of a biotechnology research center, the North Carolina Research Campus. The research center is a joint public-private venture, involving major North Carolina universities and private investment. The site of the research center in the middle of Kannapolis was formerly occupied by Plant #1 of Cannon Mills (which became Pillowtex after a series of mergers and acquisitions). Pillowtex filed for bankruptcy in 2003, and closed the mill. This resulted in the largest mass layoff of workers in North Carolina history. Murdock acquired the site and demolished the mill in 2006.\n\nSince the death of his third wife, Gabriele, he has been involved to finding a cure for cancer, advancing nutrition, and life extension. He established the Dole Nutrition Institute to advocate the benefits of a plant-based diet to promote health and prevent disease. With the help of UCLA, he oversaw the writing of the \"Encyclopedia of Foods, A Guide to Healthy Nutrition\". In 2006, he opened the California Health and Longevity Institute (CHLI).\n\nHe has been married five times. In 1967, he married his third wife, Gabriele; they had two children together and he also adopted her son from a previous marriage, Eugene. Gabriele was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 1983 and died in 1985. A year later, Eugene died after hitting his head while swimming in the family estate's swimming pool. In 2004 his son David Jr. died in an auto accident on the Santa Monica Freeway. His remaining son Justin serves as CEO and executive chairman of NovaRx and is senior vice president of investments for Castle & Cooke. Previously, he was a director at the Dole Food Company, as well as their audit and finance committee until his retirement on May 17, 2013. In 2011, \"Forbes\" ranked David Sr. as the 190th-richest person in the \"Forbes 400\" list and 613th in the \"World's Billionaires\" list, with a net worth of US$2.4 billion as of March 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "8208168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8208168", "title": "David Lynd", "text": "David Lynd\n\nDavid Lynd (1745June 29, 1802) was a seigneur and political figure in Lower Canada.\n\nHe is believed to have been born in Scotland around 1745. In 1767, he was named English clerk for the Court of Common Pleas of Quebec and register of the Vice admiralty court. He served as a lieutenant in the militia during the American invasion of Quebec in 1775-6. In 1777, he was named clerk of the peace and clerk of the crown. He served as coroner for Quebec District from 1779 to 1792. Lynd bought the rights to the fief of Sasseville in 1779 with his brother John; he became sole owner in 1785. In 1789, with others, he built a toll bridge over the Saint-Charles River. He was elected to the 1st Parliament of Lower Canada for Quebec County in 1792. In 1794, Lynd was named prothonotary and register of the court for Quebec District and, in 1795, clerk for the Court of General Sessions of the Peace. Lynd owned slaves and voted against a bill in 1793 which would have abolished slavery in Lower Canada. He owned a number of properties near the town of Quebec.\n\nHe died at Quebec in 1802.\n\nHe also indulged in the age old tradition of cheese wheel rolling.\n\n"}
{"id": "32823274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32823274", "title": "Death of Alexander the Great", "text": "Death of Alexander the Great\n\nThe death of Alexander the Great and subsequent related events have been the subjects of debates. According to a Babylonian astronomical diary, Alexander died between the evening of June 10 and the evening of June 11, 323 BC, at the age of thirty-two. This happened in the palace of Nebuchadnezzar II in Babylon.\n\nMacedonians and local residents wept at the news of the death, while Achaemenid subjects shaved their heads. The mother of Darius III, Sisygambis, having learned of Alexander's death, refused sustenance and died a few days later. Historians vary in their assessments of primary sources about Alexander's death, which results in different views.\n\nIn February 323 BC, Alexander ordered his armies to prepare for the march to Babylon. According to Arrian, after crossing the Tigris Alexander was met by Chaldeans, who advised him not to enter the city because their deity Bel had warned them that to do so at that time would be fatal for Alexander. The Chaldeans also warned Alexander against marching westwards as he would then look to the setting sun, a symbol of decline. It was suggested that he entered Babylon via the Royal Gate, in the western wall, where he would face to the east. Alexander followed this advice, but the route turned to be unfavorable because of swampy terrain. According to Jona Lendering, \"it seems that in May 323\" the Babylonian astrologers tried to avert the misfortune by substituting Alexander with an ordinary person on the Babylonian throne, who would take the brunt of the omen. The Greeks, however, did not understand that ritual.\n\nCalanus was likely to be a Hindu Naga sadhu, whom Greeks called gymnosophists. He had accompanied the Greek army back from Punjab, upon request by Alexander. He was seventy-three years of age at that time. However, when Persian weather and travel fatigue weakened him, he informed Alexander that he would rather die than live disabled. He decided to take away his life by self-immolation. Although Alexander tried to desist him from doing so but upon the insistence of Calanus, Alexander relented and the job of building a pyre was entrusted to Ptolemy. The place where this incident took place was Susa in the year 323 B.C. Calanus is mentioned also by Alexander's admiral, Nearchus and Chares of Mytilene. He did not flinch as he burnt to the astonishment of those who watched. Before immolating himself alive on the pyre, his last words to Alexander were \"We shall meet in Babylon\". Thus he is said to have prophesied the death of Alexander in Babylon. At the time of the death of Calanus, Alexander, however, did not have any plan to go to Babylon. No one understood the meaning of his words \"We shall meet in Babylon\". It was only after Alexander fell sick and died in Babylon, that the Greeks came to realize what Calanus intended to convey.\n\nProposed causes of Alexander's death included alcoholic liver disease, fever, and strychnine poisoning, but little data support those versions. According to the University of Maryland School of Medicine report of 1998, Alexander probably died of typhoid fever (which, along with malaria, was common in ancient Babylon). In the week before Alexander's death, historical accounts mention chills, sweats, exhaustion and high fever, typical symptoms of infectious diseases, including typhoid fever. According to David W. Oldach from the University of Maryland Medical Center, Alexander also had \"severe abdominal pain, causing him to cry out in agony\". The associated account, however, comes from the unreliable \"Alexander romance\". According to Andrew N. Williams and Robert Arnott, in Alexander the Great's last days he became mute. He became mute because of a previous injury to his neck from the Siege of Cyropolis.\n\nOther popular theories hold that Alexander either died of malaria or was poisoned. Other retrodiagnoses include noninfectious diseases as well. According to author Andrew Chugg, there is evidence Alexander died of malaria, having contracted it two weeks before his death while sailing in the marshes to inspect flood defences. Chugg based his argument on \"Ephemerides\" by otherwise unknown Diodotus of Erythrae, although the authenticity of this source has been questioned. It was also noted that the absence of the signature fever curve of \"Plasmodium falciparum\" (the expected parasite, given Alexander's travel history) diminishes the possibility of malaria. The malaria version was nonetheless supported by Paul Cartledge.\n\nThroughout the centuries suspicions of possible poisoning have fallen on a number of alleged perpetrators, including one of Alexander's wives, his generals, his illegitimate half-brother or the royal cup-bearer. The poisoning version is featured particularly in politically motivated \"Liber de Morte Testamentoque Alexandri\" (\"The Book On the Death and Testament of Alexander\"), which tries to discredit the family of Antipater. It was argued that the book was compiled in Polyperchon's circle, not before c. 317 BC.\n\nIn \"Alexander the Great: The Death of a God\", Paul C. Doherty claimed that Alexander was poisoned with arsenic by his possibly illegitimate half-brother Ptolemy I Soter. However, this was disputed by New Zealand National Poisons Centre toxicologist Dr Leo Schep who discounted arsenic poisoning and instead suggested that he could have been poisoned by a wine made from the plant \"Veratrum album\", known as white hellebore. This plant was known to the Ancient Greeks and it can produce prolonged poisoning symptoms that match the course of events as described in the \"Alexander Romance\". The article was published in the peer-reviewed medical journal \"Clinical Toxicology\" and suggested that if Alexander was poisoned, \"Veratrum album\" offers the most plausible cause. This theory is backed by the writings of Ancient Greek historian, Diodorus, who had recorded Alexander becoming \"stricken with pain after drinking a large bowl of wine.\"\n\nEpidemiologist John Marr and Charles Calisher put forward the West Nile fever as possible cause of Alexander's death. This version was deemed as \"fairly compelling\" by the University of Rhode Island epidemiologist Thomas Mather, who nonetheless noted that the West Nile virus tends to kill the elders or those with weakened immune systems. The version of Marr and Calisher was also criticized by Burke A. Cunha from Winthrop University Hospital. According to analysis of other authors in response to Marr and Calisher, the West Nile virus could not have infected humans before the 8th century AD.\n\nOther causes that have been put forward include acute pancreatitis provoked by \"heavy alcohol consumption and a very rich meal\", acute endocarditis, schistosomiasis brought on by \"Schistosoma haematobium\", and porphyria. Fritz Schachermeyr proposed leukemia and malaria. When Alexander's symptoms were entered to the Global Infectious Disease Epidemiology Network, influenza gained the highest probability (41.2%) on the list of differential diagnoses. However, according to Cunha, the symptoms and time course of Alexander's disease are inconsistent with influenza, as well as with malaria, schistosomiasis and poisoning in particular.\n\nAnother theory moves away from disease and hypothesizes that Alexander's death was related to a congenital scoliotic syndrome. It has been discussed that Alexander had structural neck deformities and oculomotor deficits, and this could be associated with Klippel-Feil Syndrome, a rare congenital scoliotic disorder. His physical deformities and symptoms leading up to his death are what lead experts to believe this. Some believe that as Alexander fell ill in his final days, he suffered from progressive epidural spinal cord compression, which left him quadriplegic. However this hypothesis cannot be proven without a full analysis of Alexander's body.\n\nOne ancient account reports that the planning and construction of an appropriate funerary cart to convey the body out from Babylon took two years from the time of Alexander's death. It is not known exactly how the body was preserved for about two years before it was moved from Babylon. In 1889 E. A. Wallis Budge suggested that the body was submerged in a vat of honey, while Plutarch reported treatment by Egyptian embalmers.\n\nEgyptian and Chaldean embalmers who arrived on June 16 are said to have attested to Alexander's lifelike appearance. This was interpreted as a complication of typhoid fever, known as ascending paralysis, which causes a person to appear dead prior to death.\n\nOn its way back to Macedonia, the funerary cart with Alexander's body was met in Syria by one of Alexander's generals, the future ruler Ptolemy I Soter. In late 322 or early 321 BC Ptolemy diverted the body to Egypt where it was interred in Memphis, Egypt. In the late 4th or early 3rd century BC Alexander's body was transferred from the Memphis tomb to Alexandria for reburial (by Ptolemy Philadelphus in c. 280 BC, according to Pausanias). Later Ptolemy Philopator placed Alexander's body in Alexandria's communal mausoleum. Shortly after the death of Cleopatra, Alexander's resting place was visited by Augustus, who is said to have placed flowers on the tomb and a golden diadem upon Alexander's head. By the 4th century AD the resting place of Alexander was no longer known; later authors, such as Ibn 'Abd al-Hakam, Al-Masudi and Leo the African, report having seen Alexander's tomb. Leo the African in 1491 and George Sandys in 1611 reportedly saw the tomb in Alexandria. According to one legend, the body lies in a crypt beneath an early Christian church.\n\n"}
{"id": "1723545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723545", "title": "Digesting Duck", "text": "Digesting Duck\n\nThe Canard Digérateur, or Digesting Duck, was an automaton in the form of a duck, created by Jacques de Vaucanson and unveiled on May 30, 1739 in France. The mechanical duck appeared to have the ability to eat kernels of grain, and to metabolize and defecate them. While the duck did not actually have the ability to do this—the food was collected in one inner container, and the pre-stored feces were \"produced\" from a second, so that no actual digestion took place—Vaucanson hoped that a truly digesting automaton could one day be designed.\n\nVoltaire wrote in 1741 that \"sans la voix de la le Maure, & le canard de Vaucanson, vous n'auriez rien qui fit ressouvenir de la gloire de la France.\" (\"Without the voice of le Maure and Vaucanson's duck, you would have nothing to remind you of the glory of France.\")\n\nThe Duck is thought to have been destroyed in a fire at a museum in 1879.\n\nThe Duck was the size of a living duck, and was cased in gold-plated copper. As well as quacking and muddling water with its bill, it appeared capable of drinking water, and of taking food from its operator's hand, swallowing it with a gulping action and excreting what appeared to be a digested version of it.\n\nVaucanson described the Duck's interior as containing a small \"chemical laboratory\" capable of breaking down the grain. When the stage magician and automaton builder Jean-Eugène Robert-Houdin examined the Duck in 1844, he found that Vaucanson had faked the mechanism, and the Duck's excreta consisted of pre-prepared breadcrumb pellets, dyed green. Robert-Houdin described this as \"a piece of artifice I would happily have incorporated in a conjuring trick\".\n\nA replica of Vaucanson's mechanical duck, created by Ian Huynh, was part of the collection of the (now defunct) Grenoble Automata Museum. Another replica was commissioned privately from David Secrett, an automaton maker known for his archer figure.\n\nThe duck is mentioned by the hero of Nathaniel Hawthorne's short story \"The Artist of the Beautiful\", and is referenced and discussed in John Twelve Hawks' novel \"Spark\". In Thomas Pynchon's historical novel \"Mason & Dixon\", Vaucanson's duck attains consciousness and pursues an exiled Parisian chef across the United States. The duck is referred to in Peter Carey's novel, \"The Chemistry of Tears\". Vaucanson and his duck are referred to in Lawrence Norfolk's 1991 novel \"Lempriere's Dictionary\". The Duck is featured in Lavie Tidhar's \"The Bookman\", in the Egyptian Hall, alongside the Turk.\n\nIn 2006, Belgian conceptual artist Wim Delvoye introduced the world to his \"Cloaca Machine\", a mechanical art work that actually digests food and turns it into excrement, finally fulfilling Vaucanson's wish for a working digestive automation. Many iterations of the Cloaca Machine have since been produced; the current iteration sits vertically, mimicking the human digestive system. The excrement produced by the machine is vacuum-sealed in Cloaca-branded bags and sold to art collectors and dealers; every series of excrements produced has sold out.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58400913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58400913", "title": "Elsa Bloise", "text": "Elsa Bloise\n\nElsa Bloise (1925/1926 – 2 September 2018) was an Argentine theatre actress.\n\nBloise developed her career in the Argentine theater, starting in 2000, where interpreted papers of grandmother o matriarca in works of great authors like developed in the Argentine theater, where it interpreted papers of grandmother or matriarca in works of great authors like Ivor Martinić in \"My Son Just Walks a Bit Slower\". She was directed in the theater scene by Federico León, Hernán Peña, Adriana Desanzo, Diego Rinaldi, Hernán Morán, Osmar Núñez and Damiana Puglia. It was directed by José María Muscari in the works \"Laboratorio Muscari\", \"Sensibilidad\", \"Cumbia\", \"Anarquía villera\" and the first version of \"Rights\".\n\nOne of Bloise's last works was in \"My son Just Walks a Bit Slower\" under the direction of Guillermo Cacace, where she stood out remarkably, and was one of the most outstanding works of the billboard of Buenos Aires. With good critics, the atmosphere came to be compared with Margotita, the fetish actress of the filmmaker Jorge Polaco, one of the promoters of the new Argentine cinema.\n\nBloise died on 2 September 2018, aged 92. \n\nBloise acted in the following stage works:\n"}
{"id": "159838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159838", "title": "February 28 incident", "text": "February 28 incident\n\nThe February 28 incident or the February 28 massacre, also known as the 2.28 incident (from ), was an anti-government uprising in Taiwan that was violently suppressed by the Kuomintang-led Republic of China government, which killed thousands of civilians beginning on 28 February 1947. The number of Taiwanese deaths from the massacre was estimated to be between 18,000 to 28,000. The massacre marked the beginning of the White Terror in which tens of thousands of other Taiwanese went missing, died or were imprisoned. The incident is one of the most important events in Taiwan's modern history and was a critical impetus for the Taiwan independence movement.\n\nIn 1945, following the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II, the Allies handed temporary administrative control of Taiwan to the Republic of China (ROC), thus ending 50 years of Japanese colonial rule. Local inhabitants became resentful of what they saw as high-handed and frequently corrupt conduct on the part of the Kuomintang (KMT) authorities, including arbitrary seizure of private property and their economic mismanagement. The flashpoint came on 27 February 1947 in Taipei, when a dispute between a cigarette vendor and an officer of the Office of Monopoly triggered civil disorder and an open rebellion that lasted for days. The violence spread and led to indiscriminate lynching of Mainlanders. The uprising was violently put down by the National Revolutionary Army, and the island was placed under martial law.\n\nThe subject was officially taboo for decades. On the anniversary of the event in 1995, President Lee Teng-hui addressed the subject publicly, a first. The event is now openly discussed and details of the event have become the subject of government and academic investigation. February 28 has been designated Peace Memorial Day (), an official public holiday. Every February 28, the president of the ROC gathers with other officials to ring a commemorative bell in memory of the victims. The president bows to family members of 2/28 victims and gives each one a certificate officially exonerating any victims previously blacklisted as enemies of the state. Monuments and memorial parks to the victims of 2/28 have been erected in a number of Taiwanese cities, including Kaohsiung and Taipei. Taipei's former \"Taipei New Park\" was rededicated as 228 Peace Memorial Park and houses the National 228 Memorial Museum to commemorate the incident. The museum opened on 28 February 1997, and re-opened on 28 February 2011, with new permanent exhibits.\n\nThe \"two-two-eight incident\" name derives from the \"year-month-day\" date format convention used for dates in Chinese. Chinese languages do not have common names for the months, so months are given as numbers and dates are given in the form \"\"a\"-\"b\"-\"c\"-\"d\" year, \"x\" month, \"y\" day, with all numbers being read out as cardinals without any leading zeroes. With the incident dated February 28, 1947, the name is rendered \"one nine four seven year, two month, two (tens) eight day\". For brevity just the numbers are given, and, as a date of significance, the day and month without the year suffices as the name. Other historical events named using the same conventions as the \"two-two-eight incident\" include the May Fourth Movement (4 May 1919) the \"Five-Four Movement\", the Tiananmen Incident (5 April 1976) the \"four-five movement\" and the Tianamen Square protests (4 June 1989) the \"six-four incident\".\n\nDuring the 50 years of Japanese rule in Taiwan (1895–1945), Japan developed Taiwan's economy and raised the standard of living for most Taiwanese people, building up Taiwan as a supply base for the Japanese main islands. Consequently, Taiwanese perceptions of the Japanese rule were more favourable than perceptions in other parts of East and Southeast Asia. Taiwanese adopted Japanese names and practised Shinto, while the schools instilled a sense of \"Japanese spirit\" in students. By the time World War II began, many Taiwanese were proficient in the Japanese language.\n\nAfter World War II, Taiwan was placed under the administrative control of the Republic of China to provide stability until a permanent arrangement could be made. Chen Yi, the Governor-General of Taiwan, arrived on 24 October 1945, and received the last Japanese governor, Ando Rikichi, who signed the document of surrender on the next day. Chen Yi then proclaimed the day as Retrocession Day to make Taiwan part of the Republic of China, although there were questions about the legality of doing so.\n\nThe Kuomintang (KMT) troops from Mainland China were initially welcomed by local inhabitants, but their behaviour and the KMT maladministration led to Taiwanese discontent during the immediate postwar period. As Governor-General, Chen Yi took over and sustained the Japanese system of state monopolies in tobacco, sugar, camphor, tea, paper, chemicals, petroleum refining, mining and cement, just the way the Nationalist treated people in other former Japan-control areas (people nicknamed him robber \"劫收\"). He confiscated some 500 Japanese-owned factories and mines, and homes of former Japanese residents. Economic mismanagement led to a large black market, runaway inflation and food shortages. Many commodities were compulsorily bought cheaply by the KMT administration and shipped to Mainland China to meet the Civil War shortages where they were sold at very high profit furthering the general shortage of goods in Taiwan. The price of rice rose to 100 times its original value between the time the Nationalist took over to the spring of 1946, increasing to nearly 4 times the price in Shanghai. It inflated further to 400 times the original price by January 1947. Carpetbaggers from Mainland China dominated nearly all industry, political and judicial offices, displacing the Taiwanese who were formerly employed. Many of the ROC garrison troops were highly undisciplined, looting, stealing and contributing to the overall breakdown of infrastructure and public services.\nBecause the Taiwanese elites had met with some success with self-government under Japanese rule, they had expected the same system from the incoming ruling Chinese Nationalist Government. However, the Chinese Nationalists opted for a different route, aiming for the centralization of government powers and a reduction in local authority. The KMT's nation-building efforts followed this ideology based on unpleasant experiences with the centrifugal forces during the Warlord Era in 1916–1928 that had torn the government in China. Mainland Communists were even preparing to bring down the government like the Ili Rebellion. The different goals of the Nationalists and the Taiwanese, coupled with cultural and language misunderstandings served to further inflame tensions on both sides.\n\nOn the evening of 27 February 1947, a Tobacco Monopoly Bureau enforcement team in Taipei went to the district of , Twatutia (present-day Nanjing West Road), where they confiscated contraband cigarettes from a 40-year-old widow named Lin Jiang-mai (林江邁) at the Tianma Tea House. When she demanded their return, one of the men holding a gun hit Lin's head with a pistol, prompting the surrounding Taiwanese crowd to challenge the Tobacco Monopoly agents. As they fled, one agent shot his gun into the crowd, killing one bystander. The crowd, which had already been harboring many feelings of frustration from unemployment, inflation and corruption of the Nationalist government, reached its breaking point. The crowd protested to both the police and the gendarmes, but was mostly ignored.\n\nViolence flared the following morning on February 28. Security forces at the Governor-General's Office tried to disperse the crowd. Some fired on the protesters who were calling for the arrest and trial of the agents involved in the previous day's shooting, resulting in several deaths. Formosans took over the administration of the town and military bases on March 4 and forced their way into local radio station to protest. By evening, martial law had been declared and curfews were enforced by the arrest or shooting of anyone who violated curfew.\n\nFor several weeks after the February 28 incident, the Taiwanese civilians controlled much of Taiwan. The initial riots were spontaneous and somewhat violent. Within a few days the Taiwanese were generally coordinated and organized, and public order in Taiwanese-held areas was upheld by volunteer civilians organized by students, and unemployed former Japanese army soldiers. Local leaders formed a Settlement Committee, which presented the government with a list of 32 Demands for reform of the provincial administration. They demanded, among other things, greater autonomy, free elections, surrender of the ROC Army to the Settlement Committee, and an end to governmental corruption. Motivations among the various Taiwanese groups varied; some demanded greater autonomy within the ROC, while others wanted UN trusteeship or full independence. The Taiwanese also demanded representation in the forthcoming peace treaty negotiations with Japan, hoping to secure a plebiscite to determine the island's political future.\n\nOutside of Taipei, it was less peaceful. Mainland Chinese received revenge attacks of violence. Public places like banks and post offices were looted. Some had to flee for Military Police protection. A few smaller groups formed, including the Communist-inspired \"27 Brigade\". They looted 3 machine guns, 300 rifles, and hand grenades from military arsenals in Taichung and Pingtung.\nThe armed Taiwanese shot or injured around 200 Nationalist Army soldiers which quickly precipitated the house arrest or execution of those who participated in the rebellion.\n\nThe Nationalist Government, under Chen Yi, stalled for time while it assembled a large military force in Fujian. Upon its arrival on March 8, the ROC troops launched a crackdown. The New York Times reported, \"An American who had just arrived in China from Taihoku said that troops from the mainland China arrived there on March 7 and indulged in three days of indiscriminate killing and looting. For a time everyone seen on the streets was shot at, homes were broken into and occupants killed. In the poorer sections the streets were said to have been littered with dead. There were instances of beheadings and mutilation of bodies, and women were raped, the American said.\"\nBy the end of March, Chen Yi had ordered the imprisonment or execution of the leading Taiwanese organizers he could identify. His troops reportedly executed, according to a Taiwanese delegation in Nanjing, between 3,000 and 4,000 people throughout the island. The exact number is still undetermined, as only 300 Taiwanese families applied for another compensation as recently as 1990.Detailed records kept by the KMT have been reported as \"lost\". Some of the killings were random, while others were systematic. Taiwanese elites were among those targeted, and many of the Taiwanese who had formed self-governing groups during the reign of the Japanese were also victims of the 228 incident. A disproportionate number of the victims were Taiwanese high school students. Many had recently served in the Imperial Japanese Army, having volunteered to serve to maintain order. Mainland Chinese civilians who fled were often beaten by Taiwanese.\n\nSome Taiwan political organizations participated in the uprising, for example Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League, was announced \"communist\" and illegal. Many members were arrested and executed. Some of these organizations had to move to Hong Kong.\n\nThe initial 228 purge was followed by discovery of communist infiltrators from communist mainland China under one-party rule, in what was termed \"White Terror,\" which lasted until the end of 1987. Thousands of people, including both mainland Chinese and Taiwanese, were imprisoned or executed for their dissent, leaving the Taiwanese with a deep-seated bitterness towards what they term the Nationalist regime and, by extension, all Chinese not born in Taiwan or anyone supporting the KMT or CCP. Disappearances were common, and the people feared being be captured and executed. \n\nFor several decades, it was taboo to openly criticize the 228 massacre incident. The government hoped that the execution of Governor Chen Yi and financial compensation for the victims had quelled resentment. In the 1970s the 228 Justice and Peace Movement was initiated by several citizens' groups to ask for a reversal of this policy, and, in 1992, the Executive Yuan promulgated the \"February 28 Incident Research Report.\" Then-President and KMT-chairman Lee Teng-hui, who had participated in the incident and was arrested as an instigator and a Communist sympathizer made a formal apology on behalf of the government in 1995 and declared February 28 a day to commemorate the victims. Among other memorials erected, Taipei New Park was renamed 228 Memorial Park.\n\nSince the lifting of martial law in 1987, the government has set up the 228 Incident Memorial Foundation, a civilian reparations fund supported by public donations for the victims and their families. Many descendants of victims remain unaware that their family members were victims, while many of the families of victims from Mainland China did not know the details of their relatives' mistreatment during the riot. Those who have received compensation more than two times are demanding trials of the still-living soldiers and officials who were responsible for the summary executions and deaths of their loved ones.\n\nPrior to the 228 massacre, many Taiwanese hoped for a greater autonomy from China. The failure of conclusive dialogue with the ROC administration in early March, combined with the feelings of betrayal felt towards the government and China in general are widely believed to have catalyzed today's Taiwan independence movement and subsequently the Taiwan Name Rectification Campaign after democratization.\n\nOn 28 February 2004, thousands of Taiwanese participated in the 228 Hand-in-Hand Rally. They formed a long human chain, from Taiwan's northernmost city to its southern tip, to commemorate the 228 incident, to call for peace, and to protest the People's Republic of China's deployment of missiles aimed at Taiwan along the coast of Taiwan Strait.\n\nIn 2006, the \"Research Report on Responsibility for the 228 Massacre\" was released after several years of research. The 2006 report was not intended to overlap with the prior (1992) 228 Massacre Research Report commissioned by the Executive Yuan. Chiang Kai-shek is specifically named as bearing the largest responsibility in the 2006 report. However, some hardline academics have tried to confuse these conclusions, stating the departing Japanese colonial government was responsible by creating food shortages and causing inflation.\n\nA number of artists in Taiwan have addressed the subject of the 2-28 incident since the taboo was lifted on the subject in the early 1990s. The incident has been the subject of music by Fan-Long Ko and Tyzen Hsiao and a number of literary works.\n\nHou Hsiao-hsien's \"A City of Sadness\", the first movie dealing with the events, won the Golden Lion at the 1989 Venice Film Festival. The 2009 thriller \"Formosa Betrayed\" also relates the incident as part of the motivation behind Taiwan independence activist characters.\n\nTaiwanese-American Julie Wu's novel \"The Third Son\" describes the event and its aftermath from the viewpoint of a Taiwanese boy. In her 2013 novel, \"The 228 Legacy\", author Jennifer J. Chow brings to light the emotional ramifications for those who lived through the events yet suppressed their knowledge out of fear. It focuses on how there was such an impact that it permeated throughout multiple generations within the same family.\n\nShawna Yang Ryan's novel, \"Green Island\" (2016) tells the story of the incident as it affects three generations of a Taiwanese family.\nIn 2017, Taiwanese game developer Red Candle Games launched Detention, a survival horror video game created and developed for Steam. It is a 2D atmospheric horror side-scroller set in 1960s Taiwan under martial law following the 228 incident. The game also incorporates religious elements based on Taiwanese culture and mythology. The game has received favourable reviews from critics. Rely On Horror gave the game a 9 out of 10, saying that \"every facet of Detention moves in one harmonious lockstep towards an unavoidable tragedy, drowning out the world around you.\"\n\nTaiwanese metal band Chthonic's album Mirror of Retribution also makes several lyrical references to the 228 massacre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1168856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168856", "title": "Francis Wheatley (VC)", "text": "Francis Wheatley (VC)\n\nFrancis Wheatley (1826 – 21 May 1865) was a British Army soldier and a Crimean War recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nHe was born in Ruddington, Nottinghamshire, England. His father was a frame work knitter, a trade which Francis took up before joining the army. He was enlisted at Daventry on 5 November 1839 (for a bounty of £3.17s.6d) into the 1st Battalion Rifle Brigade (Prince Consort's Own).\n\nHe was awarded his Victoria Cross (VC) for duty in the Crimean War on 12 October 1854. The day before his VC action, another act of gallantry earned him the Distinguished Conduct Medal. The citation for his VC reads:\nOn 12 October 1854 Wheatley and some other Riflemen were occupying a section of the trenches before Sevastopol when a live Russian shell fell amongst the men. Without hesitation Wheatley seized hold of the shell and endeavoured to knock the fuse out with the butt of his rifle. He was unsuccessful at the first attempt and so, with great presence of mind and deliberation he managed somehow to heave it over the parapet of the trench. It had scarcely fallen outside when it exploded. Had it not been for his coolness, presence of mind and supreme courage and discipline, the shell would have inevitably exploded amongst the party causing serious casualties, but instead not a man was hurt.\n\nHis VC was presented by Queen Victoria in person at the first investiture at Hyde Park, London on 26 June 1857.\n\nHe died on 21 May 1865 at Westminster Hospital, London from acute myelitis (inflammation of the spinal cord) and asphyxia. He was buried in a common grave in Brompton Cemetery, on which a memorial has now been placed. His medals are on view at the Royal Green Jackets (Rifles) Museum and his name is on the memorial in Winchester Cathedral.\n\nHis Victoria Cross and other medals are displayed at the Royal Green Jackets (Rifles) Museum, Winchester, England.\n\nHis other medals are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45090877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45090877", "title": "Homegoings", "text": "Homegoings\n\nHomegoings is a 2013 documentary film directed by Christine Turner about the Owens Funeral Home on Lenox Avenue in Harlem, exploring African-American death rituals through the work of funeral home director Isaiah Owens. The film premiered February 28 at the Museum of Modern Art's 'Documentary Fortnight 2013' showcase, before airing on PBS-TV's \"POV\" series and screening for a week at the Maysles Cinema.\n\nA Brooklyn-based documentary filmmaker and child of a Chinese-American mother and African-American father, Turner has stated she initially became interested in death rituals after both of her grandmothers died within two weeks of each other. She subsequently contacted Owens—known as \"Fix Em\" for his ability to repair corpses ravaged by disease, accident or violence—after reading a newspaper article about his work. Filming began in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "22882894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22882894", "title": "Individualist anarchism in Europe", "text": "Individualist anarchism in Europe\n\nIndividualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasize the individual and his or her will over external determinants such as groups, society, traditions, and ideological systems. European individualist anarchism proceeded from the roots laid by William Godwin, Individualist anarchism expanded and diversified through Europe, incorporating influences from American individualist anarchism.\n\nEarly European individualist anarchism was influenced by many philosophers, including Pierre Joseph Proudhon, Max Stirner, and Henry David Thoreau. Proudhon was an early pioneer of anarchism as well as of the important individualist anarchist current of mutualism. Stirner became a central figure of individualist anarchism through the publication of his seminal work \"The Ego and Its Own\" which is considered to be \"a founding text in the tradition of individualist anarchism.\" The philosophy of Max Stirner supports the individual doing exactly what he pleases – taking no notice of God, state, or moral rules. To Stirner, rights were \"spooks\" in the mind, and he held that society does not exist but \"the individuals are its reality\"– he supported property by force of might rather than moral right. Stirner advocated self-assertion and foresaw \"Union of egoists\" drawn together by respect for each other's self-ownership. Thoreau emphasized the promotion of simple living, environmental stewardship, and civil disobedience were influential in European individualist anarchists.\n\nAn important tendency within European individualist anarchism in general is the emphasis on individual subjective exploration and defiance of social conventions. Individualist anarchist philosophy attracted \"amongst artists, intellectuals and the well-read, urban middle classes in general.\" As such Murray Bookchin describes a lot of individualist anarchism as people who \"expressed their opposition in uniquely personal forms, especially in fiery tracts, outrageous behavior, and aberrant lifestyles in the cultural ghettos of fin de siecle New York, Paris, and London. As a credo, individualist anarchism remained largely a bohemian lifestyle, most conspicuous in its demands for sexual freedom ('free love') and enamored of innovations in art, behavior, and clothing.\". In this way free love currents and other radical lifestyles such as naturism had popularity among individualist anarchists. Other important currents common within European individual anarchism include free love, illegalism, and freethought.\n\nInfluential European individualist anarchists include Albert Libertad, Bellegarrigue, Oscar Wilde, Émile Armand, Lev Chernyi, John Henry Mackay, Han Ryner, Adolf Brand, Miguel Gimenez Igualada, Renzo Novatore, and Michel Onfray.\n\nWilliam Godwin was an individualist anarchist and philosophical anarchist who was influenced by the ideas of the Age of Enlightenment, and developed what many consider the first expression of modern anarchist thought. Godwin was, according to Peter Kropotkin, \"the first to formulate the political and economical conceptions of anarchism, even though he did not give that name to the ideas developed in his work.\" Godwin advocated extreme individualism, proposing that all cooperation in labor be eliminated. Godwin, a utilitarian, believed that not all individuals are of equal value, with some of us \"of more worth and importance' than others depending on our utility in bringing about social good. Godwin believed that the person whose life was the most conducive to the general good should be favored, eschewing equal rights. Godwin opposed government because it infringes on the individual's right to \"private judgement\" to determine which actions most maximize utility, but also objected to all authority over the individual's judgement. This aspect of Godwin's philosophy, minus the utilitarianism, was developed into a more extreme form later by Stirner.\n\nGodwin even opposed individuals performing together in orchestras, writing in \"Political Justice\" that \"everything understood by the term co-operation is in some sense an evil.\" The only apparent exception to this opposition to cooperation is the spontaneous association that may arise when a society is threatened by violent force. One reason he opposed cooperation is he believed it to interfere with an individual's ability to be benevolent for the greater good. Godwin opposes the idea of government, but wrote that a minimal state is a present \"necessary evil\" that would become increasingly irrelevant and powerless by the gradual spread of knowledge. He expressly opposed democracy, fearing oppression of the individual by the majority (though he preferred democracy to dictatorship).\n\nGodwin supported individual ownership of property, defining it as \"the empire to which every man is entitled over the produce of his own industry.\" But he also suggested that individuals give each other their surplus property when the other needed it, without involving trade (e.g. \"gift economy\"). Thus, while people have the right to private property, they \"should\" give it away as enlightened altruists. Godwin explained this approach stating, \"[e]very man has a right to that, the exclusive possession of which being awarded to him, a greater sum of benefit or pleasure will result than could have arisen from its being otherwise appropriated.\" Yet to Godwin, benevolence was not to be enforced but instead a matter of free individual \"private judgement.\" He did not advocate a community of goods or assert collective ownership as is embraced in communism, but his belief that individuals ought to share with those in need was influential on the later development of anarchist communism.\n\nGodwin's political views were diverse and do not perfectly agree with any of the ideologies that claim his influence; writers of the \"Socialist Standard\", organ of the Socialist Party of Great Britain, consider Godwin both an individualist and a communist; anarcho-capitalist Murray Rothbard did not regard Godwin as an individualist, referring to him as the \"founder of communist anarchism\";<ref name=\"rothbard/burke\">Rothbard, Murray. \"Edmund Burke, Anarchist.\"</ref> and historian Albert Weisbord considers him an individualist anarchist without reservation. Some writers see a conflict between Godwin's advocacy of \"private judgement\" and utilitarianism, as he says that ethics requires that individuals give their surplus property to each other resulting in an egalitarian society, but, at the same time, he insists that all things be left to individual choice. Many of Godwin's views changed over time, as noted by Peter Kropotkin.\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809–1865) was the first philosopher to label himself an \"anarchist.\" Some consider Proudhon to be an individualist anarchist, while others regard him to be a social anarchist. Some commentators reject this, noting his preference for association in large industries, rather than individual control. Nevertheless, he was influential among American individualists; in the 1840s and 1850s, Charles A. Dana, and William B. Greene introduced Proudhon's works to the United States. Greene adapted Proudhon's mutualism to American conditions and introduced it to Benjamin R. Tucker.\n\nProudhon opposed government privilege that protects capitalist, banking and land interests, and the accumulation or acquisition of property (and any form of coercion that led to it) which he believed hampers competition and concentrates wealth. Proudhon favored the right of individuals to retain the product of their labor as their own property, but believed that all other property was illegitimate. Thus, he saw private property as both essential to liberty and a road to tyranny, the former when it resulted from labor and was required for labor and the latter when it resulted in/from exploitation (profit, interest, rent, tax). He generally termed the former \"possession\" and the latter \"property.\" For large-scale industry, he supported workers associations to replace wage labor and opposed land ownership.\n\nProudhon maintained that workers should retain the entirety of what they produce, and that monopolies on credit and land are the forces that prohibit this. He advocated an economic system he called mutualism that included possession and exchange of private property but without profit. Joseph Dejacque explicitly rejected Proudhon's philosophy, instead preferring anarchist-communism, asserting directly to Proudhon in a letter that \"it is not the product of his or her labor that the worker has a right to, but to the satisfaction of his or her needs, whatever may be their nature.\" An individualist rather than anarchist communist, Proudhon said that \"communism...is the very denial of society in its foundation...\" and famously declared that \"property is theft!\" in reference to his rejection of ownership rights to land being granted to a person who is not using that land.\n\nAfter Dejacque and others split from Proudhon, the relationship between individualists, and anarcho-communists was characterized by various degrees of antagonism and harmony. For example, individualists like Tucker at once translated and reprinted the works of collectivists like Mikhail Bakunin while rejecting the economic aspects of collectivism and communism as incompatible with anarchist ideals.\n\nProudhon originated mutualism, an anarchist school of thought, envisioning a society where each person might possess a means of production, either individually or collectively, with trade representing equivalent amounts of labor in the free market. Integral to the scheme was the establishment of a mutual-credit bank which would lend to producers at an interest rate only high enough to cover the costs of administration. Mutualism is based on a labor theory of value which holds that when labor or its product is sold, in exchange, it ought to receive goods or services embodying \"the amount of labor necessary to produce an article of exactly similar and equal utility\". Some mutualists believe that if the state did not intervene, as a result of increased competition in the marketplace, individuals would receive no more income than that in proportion to the amount of labor they exert. Mutualists oppose the idea of individuals receiving income through loans, investments, and rent, as they believe these individuals are not laboring. Some of them argue that if state intervention ceased, these types of incomes would disappear due to increased competition in capital. Though Proudhon opposed this type of income, he expressed: \"... I never meant to ... forbid or suppress, by sovereign decree, ground rent and interest on capital. I believe that all these forms of human activity should remain free and optional for all.\"\n\nInsofar as they ensure workers' rights to the full product of their labor, mutualists support markets and private property. However, they argue for conditional title to land, whose private ownership is legitimate only so long as it remains in use or occupation (which Proudhon called \"possession.\") Proudhon's Mutualism supports labor-owned cooperative firms and associations for \"we need not hesitate, for we have no choice. . . it is necessary to form an ASSOCIATION among workers . . . because without that, they would remain related as subordinates and superiors, and there would ensue two . . . castes of masters and wage-workers, which is repugnant to a free and democratic society\" and so \"it becomes necessary for the workers to form themselves into democratic societies, with equal conditions for all members, on pain of a relapse into feudalism.\" Mutualist opinions differs on whether capital goods (man-made, non-land, \"means of production)\" should be commonly managed public assets or private property.\n\nMutualists originally considered themselves to be libertarian socialists. However, \"some mutualists have abandoned the labor theory of value, and prefer to avoid the term \"socialist.\" But they still retain some cultural attitudes, for the most part, that set them off from the libertarian right.\" Mutualists have distinguished themselves from state socialism, and don't advocate social control over the means of production. Benjamin Tucker said of Proudhon, that \"though opposed to socializing the ownership of capital, [Proudhon] aimed nevertheless to socialize its effects by making its use beneficial to all instead of a means of impoverishing the many to enrich the few...by subjecting capital to the natural law of competition, thus bringing the price of its own use down to cost.\"\n\nJohann Kaspar Schmidt (October 25, 1806 – June 26, 1856), better known as Max Stirner (the \"nom de plume\" he adopted from a schoolyard nickname he had acquired as a child because of his high brow, in German 'Stirn'), was a German philosopher, who ranks as one of the literary fathers of nihilism, existentialism, post-modernism and anarchism, especially of individualist anarchism. Stirner's main work is \"The Ego and Its Own\", also known as \"The Ego and His Own\" (\"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" in German, which translates literally as \"The Only One and his Property\"). This work was first published in 1844 in Leipzig, and has since appeared in numerous editions and translations.\n\nAuthors, philosophers and artists have cited, quoted or otherwise referred to Max Stirner. They include Albert Camus in \"The Rebel\" (the section on Stirner is omitted from the majority of English editions including Penguin's), Benjamin Tucker, Dora Marsden, Emma Goldman, Georg Brandes, Rudolf Steiner, John Cowper Powys, Émile Armand, Han Ryner, Renzo Novatore, Karl Marx, Robert Anton Wilson, Italian individualist anarchist Frank Brand, Russian-American philosopher Ayn Rand, Bob Black, antiartist Marcel Duchamp, several writers of the Situationist International, and Max Ernst, who titled a 1925 painting \"L'unique et sa propriété\".\n\n\"The Ego and Its Own\" has seen periodic revivals of popular, political and academic interest, based around widely divergent translations and interpretations—emphasizing psychological or political views. Today, many ideas associated with post-left anarchy's criticism of ideology and uncompromising individualism are clearly related to Stirner's. Individualist feminism claims him as a pioneer, since his objection to any absolute concept also counts gender roles as \"spooks\". His ideas were also adopted by post-anarchism, with Saul Newman largely agreeing with many of Stirner's criticisms of classical anarchism, including his rejection of revolution and essentialism.\n\nStirner's philosophy, sometimes called \"egoism\", is the most extreme form of IA. He was a Hegelian philosopher whose \"name appears with familiar regularity in historically-orientated surveys of anarchist thought as one of the earliest and best-known exponents of IA.\" Stirner does not recommend that the individual try to eliminate the state but simply exploit it to further the individual's interests. He says that the egoist rejects pursuit of devotion to \"a great idea, a good cause, a doctrine, a system, a lofty calling\", saying that the egoist has no political calling but rather \"lives themselves out\" without regard to \"how well or ill humanity may fare thereby.\" Stirner held that the only limitation on the rights of the individual is his power to obtain what he desires. He proposes that most commonly accepted social institutions—including the notion of State, property as a right, natural rights in general, and the very notion of society—were mere \"spooks\" in the mind. Stirner wanted to \"abolish not only the state but also society as an institution responsible for its members.\" He advocated self-assertion and foresaw \"associations of egoists\" where respect for ruthlessness drew people together. Even murder is permissible \"if it is right for me.\"\nStirner claimed that property comes about through might: \"Whoever knows how to take, to defend, the thing, to him belongs property.\" \"What I have in my power, that is my own. So long as I assert myself as holder, I am the proprietor of the thing.\" \"I do not step shyly back from your property, but look upon it always as my property, in which I respect nothing. Pray do the like with what you call my property!\". His concept of \"egoistic property\" not only rejects moral restraint on how one obtains and uses \"things\", but includes other people as well. His embrace of egoism is in stark contrast to Godwin's altruism. Stirner was opposed to communism, seeing it as a form of authority over the individual.\n\nIn Russia, IA inspired by Stirner combined with an appreciation for Friedrich Nietzsche to attract a small following of bohemian artists and intellectuals such as Lev Chernyi, as well as a few lone wolves who found self-expression in crime and violence. They rejected organizing, believing that only unorganized individuals were safe from coercion and domination. They claimed this belief to be fundamental to anarchism. This type of IA inspired anarcho-feminist Emma Goldman\n\nThough Stirner's philosophy is individualist, it has influenced some libertarian communists and anarcho-communists. \"For Ourselves Council for Generalized Self-Management\" discusses Stirner and speaks of a \"communist egoism\", which is said to be a \"synthesis of individualism and collectivism\", and says that \"greed in its fullest sense is the only possible basis of communist society.\" Forms of libertarian communism such as situationism are influenced by Stirner. Anarcho-communist Emma Goldman was influenced by both Stirner and Peter Kropotkin and blended their philosophies together in her own.\n\nProudhon and Stirner stimulated a strong response in France. An early important example was Anselme Bellegarrigue. He participated in the French Revolution of 1848, was author and editor of \"Anarchie, Journal de l'Ordre\" and \"Au fait ! Au fait ! Interprétation de l'idée démocratique\" and wrote the important early Anarchist Manifesto in 1850. Catalan historian of individualist anarchism Xavier Diez reports that during his travels in the United States \"he at least contacted (Henry David) Thoreau and, probably (Josiah) Warren.\" Jean-Baptiste Louiche, Charles Schæffer and Georges Deherme edited the individualist anarchist publication \"Autonomie Individuelle\" that ran from 1887 to 1888.\n\nIntellectuals such as Albert Libertad, André Lorulot, Émile Armand, Victor Serge, Zo d'Axa and Rirette Maitrejean extended the theory in France's main individualist anarchist journal, \"L'Anarchie\" in 1905 and later in \"EnDehors\". Outside this journal, Han Ryner wrote \"Petit Manuel individualiste\" (1903).\n\nFrench individualist anarchists espoused diverse positions. For example, Émile Armand rejected violence and embraced mutualism while advocating free love. Albert Libertad and Zo d'Axa championed violent propaganda by the deed while adhering to communitarianism or anarcho-communism and rejecting work. Han Ryner on the other side conciled anarchism with stoicism. Nevertheless, French individualist circles displayed a strong sense of personal libertarianism and experimentation. Anarchist naturism and free love concepts influenced individualist anarchists circles in France and Spain and expanded to the rest of anarchism.\n\nHenri Zisly, Emile Gravelle and Georges Butaud promoted anarchist naturism. Butaud was an individualist \"partisan of the \"milieux libres\", publishing \"Flambeau\" (\"an enemy of authority\") in 1901 in Vienna. He focused on creating and participating in anarchist colonies.\n\n\"In this sense, the theoretical positions and the vital experiences of french individualism are deeply iconoclastic and scandalous, even within libertarian circles. The call of nudist naturism, the strong defense of birth control methods, the idea of \"unions of egoists\" with the sole justification of sexual practices, that will try to put in practice, not without difficulties, will establish a way of thought and action, and will result in sympathy within some, and a strong rejection within others.\"\n\nIllegalism developed primarily in France, Italy, Belgium, and Switzerland during the early 20th century as an outgrowth of Stirner's IA. Illegalists typically did not seek moral basis for their actions, recognizing only the reality of \"might\" rather than \"right\". They advocated illegal acts to satisfy personal desires, not a larger ideal, although some committed crimes as a form of direct action or propaganda of the deed .\n\nInfluenced by Stirner's egoism as well as Proudhon's \"property is theft\", Clément Duval and Marius Jacob proposed the theory of la individual reclamation.\n\nIllegalism first rose to prominence among a generation of Europeans inspired by the unrest of the 1890s. Ravachol, Émile Henry, Auguste Vaillant, and Caserio committed daring crimes in anarchism's name. France's Bonnot Gang was the most famous group to embrace illegalism.\n\nJoseph Albert (known as Albert Libertad or Libertad) was an individualist anarchist militant and writer from France who edited the influential anarchist publication \"L'Anarchie\". During the Dreyfus affair, he founded the Anti-Militarist League (1902) \"and, along with Paraf-Javal, founded the \"Causeries populaires\", public discussions that met with great interest throughout the country, contributing to the opening of a bookstore and various clubs in different quarters of Paris\". On the occasion of July 14 anniversary, \"L'Anarchie\" \"printed and distributed the manifesto \"The Bastille of Authority\" in one hundred thousand copies. Along with feverish activity against the social order, Libertad was usually also organizing feasts, dances and country excursions, in consequence of his vision of anarchism as the \"joy of living\" and not as militant sacrifice and death instinct, seeking to reconcile the requirements of the individual (in his need for autonomy) with the need to destroy authoritarian society. In fact, Libertad overcame the false dichotomy between individual revolt and social revolution, stressing that the first is simply a moment of the second, certainly not its negation. Revolt can only be born from the specific tension of the individual, which, in expanding itself, can only lead to a project of social liberation. For Libertad, anarchism doesn't consist in living separated from any social context in some cold ivory tower or on some happy communitarian isle, nor in living in submission to social roles, putting off the moment when one puts one's ideas into practice to the bitter end, but in living as anarchists here and now, without any concessions, in the only way possible: by rebelling. And this is why, in this perspective, individual revolt and social revolution no longer exclude each other, but rather complement each other.\"\n\nÉmile Armand was an influential French individualist anarchist, free love/polyamory and pacifist/antimilitarist propagandist and activist. He wrote for such anarchist magazines as \"L'Anarchie\" and \"EnDehors\". His thought was mainly influenced by such thinkers as Stirner, Benjamin Tucker, and American Transcendentalism. Outside France he was an important influence in Spanish anarchist movements, above all in the individualist publications \"Iniciales\", \"Al Margen\" and \"Nosotros\". He defended the Ido constructed language over Esperanto with the help of José Elizalde.\n\nArmand contrasted his IA with social anarchist currents, rejecting revolution. He argued that waiting for revolution meant delaying the enjoyment of liberty until the masses gained awareness and will. Instead he advocated living under one's own conditions in the present time, revolting against social conditioning in daily life and living with those with an affinity to oneself in accord to the values and desire they share. He says the individualist is a \"presentist\" and \"he could not, without bad reasoning and illogic, think of sacrificing his being, or his having, to the coming of a state of things he will not immediately enjoy\". He applies this rule to friendship, love, sexual encounters and economic transactions. He adheres to an ethics of reciprocity and advocated propagandizing one's values to enable association with others to improve the chances of self-realization.\n\nArmand advocated free love, naturism and polyamory in what he termed \"la camaraderie amoureuse\". He wrote many propagandist articles on this subject advocating not only a vague free love but also multiple partners, which he called \"plural love.\" \"'The camaraderie amoureuse thesis,' he explained, 'entails a free contract of association (that may be annulled without notice, following prior agreement) reached between anarchist individualists of different genders, adhering to the necessary standards of sexual hygiene, with a view toward protecting the other parties to the contract from certain risks of the amorous experience, such as rejection, rupture, exclusivism, possessiveness, unicity, coquetry, whims, indifference, flirtatiousness, disregard for others, and prostitution.'\".\n\nHan Ryner was a French individualist anarchist philosopher and activist and a novelist. He wrote for publications such as \"L'Art social\", \"L'Humanité nouvelle\", \"L'Ennemi du Peuple\", \"L'Idée Libre de Lorulot\"; and \"L'En dehors\" and \"L'Unique\". His thought is mainly influenced by stoicism and epicureanism.\n\nHe defines individualism as \"the moral doctrine which, relying on no dogma, no tradition, no external determination, appeals only to the individual conscience.\". He distinguishes \"conquering and aggressive egoists who proclaim themselves to be individualists\" from what he called \"harmonic individualists\" who respected others. He admired Epicurus' temperance and that \"he showed that very little was needed to satisfy hunger and thirst, to defend oneself against heat and the cold. And he liberated himself from all other needs, that is, almost all the desires and all the fears that enslave men.\". He celebrated how Jesus \"lived free and a wanderer, foreign to any social ties. He was the enemy of priests, external cults and, in general, all organizations.\"\n\nFrench individualist anarchists grouped behind Émile Armand, published \"L'Unique\" after World War II. \"L'Unique\" went from 1945 to 1956 with a total of 110 numbers. Gérard de Lacaze-Duthiers (January 26, 1876 – May 3, 1958) was a French writer, art critic, pacifist and anarchist. Lacaze-Duthiers, an art critic for the Symbolist review journal \"La Plume\", was influenced by Oscar Wilde, Nietzsche and Max Stirner. His (1906) \"L'Ideal Humain de l'Art\" helped found the 'Artistocracy' movement – a movement advocating life in the service of art. His ideal was an anti-elitist aestheticism: \"All men should be artists\". Together with André Colomer and Manuel Devaldes, he founded \"L'Action d'Art\", an anarchist literary journal, in 1913. He was a contributor to the \"Anarchist Encyclopedia\". After World War II he contributed to the journal \"L'Unique\".\n\nWithin the synthesist anarchist organization, the Fédération Anarchiste, there existed an individualist anarchist tendency alongside anarcho-communist and anarchosyndicalist currents. Individualist anarchists participating inside the Fédération Anarchiste included Charles-Auguste Bontemps, Georges Vincey and André Arru. The new base principles of the francophone Anarchist Federation were written by Charles-Auguste Bontemps and the anarcho-communist Maurice Joyeux which established an organization with a plurality of tendencies and autonomy of federated groups organized around synthesist principles. Charles-Auguste Bontemps was a prolific author mainly in the anarchist, freethinking, pacifist and naturist press of the time. His view on anarchism was based around his concept of \"Social Individualism\" on which he wrote extensively. He defended an anarchist perspective which consisted on \"a collectivism of things and an individualism of persons.\"\n\nIn 2002, an anarchist, Libertad organized a new version of the \"L'EnDehors\", collaborating with \"Green Anarchy\" and including contributors such as Lawrence Jarach, Patrick Mignard, Thierry Lodé, Ron Sakolsky, and Thomas Slut. Articles about capitalism, human rights, free love and social fights were published. \"The EnDehors\" continues now as a website, EnDehors.net.\n\nThe prolific contemporary French philosopher Michel Onfray has been writing from an individualist anarchist perspective influenced by Nietzsche, French post-structuralists thinkers such as Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze; and Greek classical schools of philosophy such as the Cynics and Cyrenaics. Among the books which best expose Onfray's individualist anarchist perspective include \"La sculpture de soi : la morale esthétique\" (The sculpture of oneself: aesthetic morality), \"La philosophie féroce : exercices anarchistes\", \"La puissance d'exister\" and \"Physiologie de Georges Palante, portrait d'un nietzchéen de gauche\" which focuses on French individualist philosopher Georges Palante.\n\nIn Italy IA had a strong tendency towards illegalism and violent propaganda by the deed, perhaps more extreme than in France which emphazised criticism of organization be it anarchist or of other type. Acts included notorious magnicides carried out or attempted by individualists Giovanni Passannante, Sante Caserio, Michele Angiolillo, Luigi Luccheni, and Gaetano Bresci who murdered king Umberto I. Caserio lived in France and later assassinated French president Sadi Carnot. The theoretical seeds of current Insurrectionary anarchism were laid out at the end of 19th century Italy combining IA criticism of permanent groups and organization with a socialist class struggle worldview. This thought also motivated Gino Lucetti, Michele Schirru and Angelo Sbardellotto in attempting the assassination of Benito Mussolini. Pietro Bruzzi published the journal \"L'Individualista\" in the 1920s alongside Ugo Fedeli and Francesco Ghezzi but who fell to fascist forces later. Pietro Bruzzi also collaborated with the Italian American individualist anarchist publication \"Eresia\" of New York City edited by Enrico Arrigoni.\n\nRenzo Novatore was influenced by Stirner, Friedrich Nietzsche, Georges Palante, Oscar Wilde, Henrik Ibsen, Arthur Schopenhauer and Charles Baudelaire. He collaborated in numerous anarchist journals and participated in futurism avant-garde currents.\n\nHe proclaimed \"revolution is the fire of our will and a need of our solitary minds; it is an obligation of the libertarian aristocracy. To create new ethical values. To create new aesthetic values. To communalize material wealth. To individualize spiritual wealth. Because we violent celebralists and passional sentimentalists at the same time-understand and know that revolution is a necessity of the silent sorrow that suffers at the bottom and a need of the free spirits who suffer in the heights.\" He summarizes the three options in life as \"The stream of slavery, the stream of tyranny, the stream of freedom! With revolution, the last of these streams needs to burst upon the other two and overwhelm them. It needs to create spiritual beauty, teach the poor the shame of their poverty, and the rich the shame of their wealth.\" These views justified his practice of illegalism and later active resistance to fascism.\n\nNovatore collaborated in the individualist anarchist journal \"Iconoclasta!\" alongside the young Stirnerist illegalist Bruno Filippi\n\nAlso, a poet, Novatore belonged to the leftist section of the avant-garde movement of futurism, alongside others individualist anarchists such as Dante Carnesecchi, Leda Rafanelli, Auro d'Arcola, and Giovanni Governato.\n\nIn Italy in 1945 during the Founding Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation, individualists anarchists were led by Cesare Zaccaria. During the 1965 IX Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation in Carrara a splinter group created the \"Gruppi di Iniziativa Anarchica\". In the 1970s, it was mostly composed of \"veteran individualist anarchists with an orientation of pacifism, naturism, etc...\".\n\nEgoism had a strong influence on insurrectionary anarchism, as can be seen in the work of Alfredo Bonanno and Michele Fabiani. Bonanno has written on Stirner in works such as \"Max Stirner\" and \"Max Stirner und der Anarchismus\".\n\nIn the famous Italian insurrectionary anarchist anonymous essay, \"At Daggers Drawn with the Existent, its Defenders and its False Critics\" is \"The workers who, during a wildcat strike, carried a banner saying, 'We are not asking for anything' understood that the defeat is in the claim itself ('the claim against the enemy is eternal'). There is no alternative but to take everything. As Stirner said: 'No matter how much you give them, they will always ask for more, because what they want is no less than the end of every concession'.\" Horst Fantazzini (March 4, 1939 Altenkessel, Saarland, West Germany–December 24, 2001, Bologna, Italy), was an Italian-German individualist anarchist who pursued an illegalist lifestyle and practice until his death in 2001. He gained media notoriety mainly due to his many bank robberies through Italy and other countries. In 1999 the film \"Ormai è fatta!\" appeared based on his life.\n\nSpanish individualist anarchists was influenced by American individualist anarchism but mainly it was connected to the French currents. At the turn of the 20th century people such as Dorado Montero, Ricardo Mella, Federico Urales, Mariano Gallardo and J. Elizalde translated French and American individualists. Important in this respect were also magazines such as \"La Idea Libre\", \"La Revista Blanca\", \"Etica\", \"Iniciales\", \"Al margen\", \"Estudios\" and \"Nosotros\". The most influential thinkers there were Stirner, Émile Armand and Han Ryner. Just as in France, Esperanto, anationalism, anarcho-naturism and free love were present. Later Armand and Ryner started publishing in the Spanish individualist press. Armand's concept of amorous camaraderie had an important role in motivating polyamory as realization of the individual.\n\nRecently historian Xavier Diez wrote on the subject in \"El anarquismo individualista en España: 1923–1938\" y \"Utopia sexual a la premsa anarquista de Catalunya. La revista Ética-Iniciales(1927–1937)\" deals with free love thought in \"Iniciales\". Diez reports that the Spanish individualist anarchist press was widely read by members of anarcho-communist groups and by members of the anarcho-syndicalist trade union CNT. There were also the cases of prominent individualist anarchists such as Federico Urales and Miguel Gimenez Igualada who were members of the CNT and J. Elizalde who was a founding member and first secretary of the Iberian Anarchist Federation.\n\nFederico Urales was an important catalan individualist anarchist who edited \"La Revista Blanca\". The individualist anarchism of Urales was influenced by Auguste Comte and Charles Darwin. He saw science and reason as a defense against blind servitude to authority. He was critical of influential individualist thinkers such as Nietzsche and Stirner for promoting an asocial egoist individualism and instead promoted an individualism with solidarity as a way to guarantee social equality and harmony. In the subject of organization he was highly critical of anarcho-syndicalism as he saw it plagued by too much bureaucracy and thought that it tended towards reformism. Instead he favored small groups based on ideological alignment. He supported the establishmente of the Iberian Anarchist Federation (FAI) in 1927 and participated in it.\n\nIn 2000 in Spain Ateneo Libertario Ricardo Mella, Ateneo libertario Al Margen, Ateneu Enciclopèdic Popular, Ateneo Libertario de Sant Boi, Ateneu Llibertari Poble Sec y Fundació D'Estudis Llibertaris i Anarcosindicalistes republished Émile Armand's writings on Free Love and IA in a compilation titled \"Individualist anarchism and Amorous camaraderie\".\n\nJesús Huerta de Soto is a Spanish economist of the Austrian School, professor in the Department of Applied Economics at King Juan Carlos University of Madrid, Senior Fellow at the Ludwig von Mises Institute and a reference of anarcho-capitalism in Spain. He has defended the theoretical superiority of anarcho-capitalism over classical liberalism. In his work \"The Theory of Dynamic Efficiency\" he states that the analysis of the social reality must combine adequately three different standpoints: theoretical (Ludwig von Mises), historical-evolutionary (Friedrich Hayek), and ethical (Murray Rothbard).\n\nAn important Spanish individualist anarchist was Miguel Giménez Igualada who wrote the lengthy theory book called \"Anarchism\" espousing his individualist anarchism. Between October 1937 and February 1938 he starts as editor of the individualist anarchist magazine \"Nosotros\", in which many works of Han Ryner and Émile Armand appear and will also participate in the publishing of another individualist anarchist maganize \"Al Margen: Publicación quincenal individualista\". In his youth he engaged in illegalist activities. His thought was deeply influenced by Max Stirner, of which he was the main popularizer in Spain through his writings. He publishes and writes the preface to the fourth edition in Spanish of \"The Ego and Its Own\" from 1900. He will propose the creation of a union of egoists, which will be a Federation of Individualist Anarchists in Spain, but did not succeed. In 1956 publishes an extensive treatise on Stirner which he dedicates to fellow individualist anarchist Émile Armand Afterwards he will travel and live in Argentina, Uruguay and Mexico.\n\nIn his major work \"Anarchism\" Igualada states that \"humanism or anarchism...for me are the same thing\". He sees the anarchist as one who \"does not accept the imposition of a thought on us and who does not allows one's own thought to be imposed over another brain, oppressing it...since anarchy is not for me a mere negation, but a twofold activity of consciousness; in the first instance a consciousness of the individual on its meaning within the human world, defending his personality against every external imposition; on a second instance, and here is present the whole great beauty of its ethic, it defends, stimulates and enhances the other's personality... Igualada exposes a radical pacifist view when he thinks that \"When I say that through war humanity will never find peace, I sustain my affirmation in the fact that those who are more peaceful are the least believers, and so...one can affirm that the day of happiness in which war (religiosity is bellicosity) is extirpated from consciousness, peace will exists in the home of men, and since from consciousness these beliefs will not be extracted but only through an act of transcendental education, our labor is not of killing, but of education having it well present that to educate is not in any case domestication.\n\nFreethought as a philosophical position and as activism was important in European individualist anarchism. \"Anticlericalism, just as in the rest of the libertarian movement, in another of the frequent elements which will gain relevance related to the measure in which the (French) Republic begins to have conflicts with the church...Anti-clerical discourse, frequently called for by the French individualist André Lorulot, will have its impacts in \"Estudios\" (a Spanish individualist anarchist publication). There will be an attack on institutionalized religion for the responsibility that it had in the past on negative developments, for its irrationality which makes it a counterpoint of philosophical and scientific progress. There will be a criticism of proselitism and ideological manipulation which happens on both believers and agnostics.\". This tendencies will continue in French individualist anarchism in the work and activism of Charles-Auguste Bontemps and others. In the Spanish individualist anarchist magazine \"Ética\" and \"Iniciales\" \"there is a strong interest in publishing scientific news, usually linked to a certain atheist and anti-theist obsession, philosophy which will also work for pointing out the incompatibility between science and religion, faith and reason. In this way there will be a lot of talk on Darwin's theories or on the negation of the existence of the soul.\".\n\nAnother important current, especially within French and Spanish individualist anarchist groups was naturism. Naturism promoted an ecological worldview, small ecovillages, and most prominently nudism as a way to avoid the artificiality of the industrial mass society of modernity. Naturist individualist anarchists saw the individual in his biological, physical and psychological aspects and avoided, and tried to eliminate, social determinations. An early influence in this vein was Henry David Thoreau and his famous book \"Walden\" Important promoters of this were Henri Zisly and Emile Gravelle who collaborated in \"La Nouvelle Humanité\" followed by \"Le Naturien\", \"Le Sauvage\", \"L'Ordre Naturel\", & \"La Vie Naturelle\".\n\nThis relationship between anarchism and naturism was quite important at the end of the 1920s in Spain. \"The linking role played by the 'Sol y Vida' group was very important. The goal of this group was to take trips and enjoy the open air. The Naturist athenaeum, 'Ecléctico', in Barcelona, was the base from which the activities of the group were launched. First \"Etica\" and then \"Iniciales\", which began in 1929, were the publications of the group, which lasted until the Spanish Civil War. We must be aware that the naturist ideas expressed in them matched the desires that the libertarian youth had of breaking up with the conventions of the bourgeoisie of the time. That is what a young worker explained in a letter to 'Iniciales' He writes it under the odd pseudonym of 'silvestre del campo', (wild man in the country). \"I find great pleasure in being naked in the woods, bathed in light and air, two natural elements we cannot do without. By shunning the humble garment of an exploited person, (garments which, in my opinion, are the result of all the laws devised to make our lives bitter), we feel there no others left but just the natural laws. Clothes mean slavery for some and tyranny for others. Only the naked man who rebels against all norms, stands for anarchism, devoid of the prejudices of outfit imposed by our money-oriented society.\"\". \"The relation between Anarchism and Naturism gives way to the Naturist Federation, in July 1928, and to the lV Spanish Naturist Congress, in September 1929, both supported by the Libertarian Movement. However, in the short term, the Naturist and Libertarian movements grew apart in their conceptions of everyday life. The Naturist movement felt closer to the Libertarian individualism of some French theoreticians such as Henri Ner than to the revolutionary goals proposed by some Anarchist organisations such as the FAI, (Federación Anarquista Ibérica)\".\n\nThe thought of German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche has been influential in individualist anarchism specifically in thinkers such as the French Émile Armand, the Italian Renzo Novatore, the Russian Lev Chernyi, the Colombian Biofilo Panclasta, and also \"translations of Nietzsche's writings in the United States very likely appeared first in \"Liberty\", the anarchist journal edited by Benjamin Tucker.\"\n\nIn Germany the Scottish-born German John Henry Mackay became the most important individualist anarchist propagandist. He fused Stirnerist egoism with the positions of Benjamin Tucker and translated Tucker into German. Two semi-fictional writings of his own \"Die Anarchisten\" and \"Der Freiheitsucher\" contributed to individualist theory, updating egoist themes with respect to the anarchist movement. His writing were translated into English as well. Mackay is also an important European early activist for LGBT rights.\n\nAdolf Brand (1874–1945) was a German writer, Stirnerist anarchist and pioneering campaigner for the acceptance of male bisexuality and homosexuality. Brand published the world's first ongoing homosexual publication, \"Der Eigene\" in 1896. The name was taken from Stirner, who had greatly influenced the young Brand, and refers to Stirner's concept of \"self-ownership\" of the individual. \"Der Eigene\" concentrated on cultural and scholarly material, and may have averaged around 1500 subscribers per issue during its lifetime. Contributors included Erich Mühsam, Kurt Hiller, John Henry Mackay (under the pseudonym Sagitta) and artists Wilhelm von Gloeden, Fidus and Sascha Schneider. Brand contributed many poems and articles himself. Benjamin Tucker followed this journal from the United States.\n\n\"Der Einzige\" was the title of a German individualist anarchist magazine. It appeared in 1919, as a weekly, then sporadically until 1925 and was edited by cousins Anselm Ruest (pseud. for Ernst Samuel) and Mynona (pseud. for Salomo Friedlaender). Its title was adopted from the book \"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" (engl. trans. \"The Ego and Its Own\") by Max Stirner. Another influence was the thought of German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. The publication was connected to the local expressionist artistic current and the transition from it towards dada.\n\nIndividualist anarchism was one of the three categories of anarchism in Russia, along with the more prominent anarchist communism and anarcho-syndicalism. The ranks of the Russian individualist anarchists were predominantly drawn from the intelligentsia and the working class. For anarchist historian Paul Avrich \"The two leading exponents of individualist anarchism, both based in Moscow, were Aleksei Alekseevich Borovoi and Lev Chernyi (Pavel Dmitrievich Turchaninov). From Nietzsche, they inherited the desire for a complete overturn of all values accepted by bourgeois societypolitical, moral, and cultural. Furthermore, strongly influenced by Max Stirner and Benjamin Tucker, the German and American theorists of individualist anarchism, they demanded the total liberation of the human personality from the fetters of organized society.\"\n\nSome Russian individualists anarchists \"found the ultimate expression of their social alienation in violence and crime, others attached themselves to avant-garde literary and artistic circles, but the majority remained \"philosophical\" anarchists who conducted animated parlor discussions and elaborated their individualist theories in ponderous journals and books.\"\n\nLev Chernyi was an important individualist anarchist involved in resistance against the rise to power of the Bolchevik Party. He adhered mainly to Stirner and the ideas of Benjamin Tucker. In 1907, he published a book entitled \"Associational Anarchism\", in which he advocated the \"free association of independent individuals.\". On his return from Siberia in 1917 he enjoyed great popularity among Moscow workers as a lecturer. Chernyi was also Secretary of the Moscow Federation of Anarchist Groups, which was formed in March 1917. He was an advocate \"for the seizure of private homes\", which was an activity seen by the anarchists after the October revolution as direct expropriation on the bourgoise. He died after being accused of participation in an episode in which this group bombed the headquarters of the Moscow Committee of the Communist Party. Although most likely not being really involved in the bombing, he might have died of torture.\n\nChernyi advocated a Nietzschean overthrow of the values of bourgeois Russian society, and rejected the voluntary communes of anarcho-communist Peter Kropotkin as a threat to the freedom of the individual. Scholars including Avrich and Allan Antliff have interpreted this vision of society to have been greatly influenced by the individualist anarchists Max Stirner, and Benjamin Tucker. Subsequent to the book's publication, Chernyi was imprisoned in Siberia under the Russian Czarist regime for his revolutionary activities.\n\nOn the other hand, Aleksei Borovoi (1876?–1936), was a professor of philosophy at Moscow University, \"a gifted orator and the author of numerous books, pamphlets, and articles which attempted to reconcile individualist anarchism with the doctrines of syndicallism\". He wrote among other theoretical works, \"Anarkhizm\" in 1918 just after the October revolution and \"Anarchism and Law\". For him \"the chief importance is given not to Anarchism as the aim but to Anarchy as the continuous quest for the aim\". He manifests there that \"No social ideal, from the point of view of anarchism, could be referred to as absolute in a sense that supposes it's the crown of human wisdom, the end of social and ethical quest of man.\"\n\nThe English enlightenment political theorist William Godwin was an important influence early influence as mentioned before. \n\nIn the late 19th century individualist anarchists such as Wordsworth Donisthorpe, Joseph Hiam Levy, Joseph Greevz Fisher, John Badcock, Jr., Albert Tarn, and Henry Seymour were close to Tucker's magazine \"Liberty\". In the mid-1880s Seymour published a journal called \"The Anarchist\". and also later took a special interest in free love as he participated in the journal \"The Adult: A Journal for the Advancement of Freedom in Sexual Relationships\". \"\"The Serpent\", issued from London...the most prominent English-language egoist journal, was published from 1898 to 1900 with the subtitle 'A Journal of Egoistic Philosophy and Sociology'\".\n\nAlso, philosopher and writer Herbert Read wrote on Godwin and works such as \"To Hell With Culture\", \"The Paradox of Anarchism\" \"Philosophy of Anarchism\", \"Anarchy & Order; Poetry & Anarchism\" and \"My Anarchism\". Henry Meulen was notable for his support of free banking. Sidney Parker is a British egoist who wrote articles and edited anarchist journals from 1963 to 1993 such as \"Minus One\", \"Egoist\", and \"Ego\".\n\nDonald Rooum is an English anarchist cartoonist and writer with a long association with Freedom Press. Rooum stated that for his thought \"The most influential source is Max Stirner. I am happy to be called a Stirnerite anarchist, provided 'Stirnerite' means one who agrees with Stirner's general drift, not one who agrees with Stirner's every word.\" \"An Anarchist FAQ\" reports that \"From meeting anarchists in Glasgow during the Second World War, long-time anarchist activist and artist Donald Rooum likewise combined Stirner and anarcho-communism.\" \n\nIn the hybrid of post-structuralism and anarchism called post-anarchism the British Saul Newman has written a lot on Stirner and his similarities to post-structuralism. He writes:\n\nMax Stirner's impact on contemporary political theory is often neglected. However in Stirner's political thinking there can be found a surprising convergence with poststructuralist theory, particularly with regard to the function of power. Andrew Koch, for instance, sees Stirner as a thinker who transcends the Hegelian tradition he is usually placed in, arguing that his work is a precursor poststructuralist ideas about the foundations of knowledge and truth.\n\nNewman has published several essays on Stirner. \"War on the State: Stirner and Deleuze's Anarchism\" and \"Empiricism, pluralism, and politics in Deleuze and Stirner\" discusses what he sees are similarities between Stirner's thought and that of Gilles Deleuze. In \"Spectres of Stirner: a Contemporary Critique of Ideology\" he discusses the conception of ideology in Stirner. In \"Stirner and Foucault: Toward a Post-Kantian Freedom\" he identifies similarities between Stirner and Michel Foucault. Also he wrote \"Politics of the ego: Stirner's critique of liberalism\".\n\nThe Irish anarchist writer of the Decadent movement Oscar Wilde influenced individualist anarchists such as Renzo Novatore and gained the admiration of Benjamin Tucker. In his important essay \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\" from 1891 he defended socialism as the way to guarantee individualism and so he saw that \"With the abolition of private property, then, we shall have true, beautiful, healthy Individualism. Nobody will waste his life in accumulating things, and the symbols for things. One will live. To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.\" For anarchist historian George Woodcock \"Wilde's aim in \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\" is to seek the society most favorable to the artist...for Wilde art is the supreme end, containing within itself enlightenment and regeneration, to which all else in society must be subordinated...Wilde represents the anarchist as aesthete.\" Woodocock finds that \"The most ambitious contribution to literary anarchism during the 1890s was undoubtedly Oscar Wilde \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\"\" and finds that it is influenced mainly by the thought of William Godwin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1078243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078243", "title": "Jean-François Papillon", "text": "Jean-François Papillon\n\nJean-François Papillon (died in the early 1800s) was one of the principal leaders in the Haitian Revolution against slavery and French rule. He led the initial uprising of enslaved workers and later allied with Spain against the French.\n\nHe was born in Africa but enslaved and taken in captivity to the North Province of Saint-Domingue (the future nation of Haiti). There he worked in the plantation of Papillon in the last decades of the 18th Century. He escaped from that plantation and became a maroon, so when the revolution started in August 1791 he had already enjoyed a direct experience of freedom.\n\nRight after the tragic death of Boukman Dutty, the insurgent slaves’ first leader, Jean-François Papillon imposed his authority over the other black generals, especially Georges Biassou, Jeannot Bullet and Toussaint Bréda (later Toussaint Louverture), and became commander-in-chief of the Haitian former slaves. By late 1791, some weeks after the revolutionary outbreak, Jean-François and Biassou set their rivalry aside in order to oppose Jeannot, who not only massacred the French but also all the black soldiers that contested his authority. For that reason, Biassou and Jean-François arrested and executed him by November 1791. \nIt has often been assumed that Jean-François and his men rose up in rebellion to win universal freedom, but their real intention was to gain as much power as possible and return the rest of the slaves to the plantations when the revolution was over and the generals had already achieved power. Jean-François confessed his convictions to the North American agents in Le Cap Français: “[...] that General told us that he had not created himself General of the negroes, that those who had that power had confered [sic] upon him that title; that in taking up arms, he never pretended to fight for General Liberty, which he knew to be an illusion”.\n\nThere are many chances that the Spaniards backed the Haitian revolution from the beginning, providing the insurgents with food and weapons: they knew that the episode would cause chaos in Saint-Domingue, giving Spain the chance to send troops to that territory and re-annex it, since it had been a Spanish possession taken by the French in the Peace Treaty of Ryswick (1697). In October 1791, the black General Toussaint Bréda admitted his contacts with the Spaniards, who had promised them provisions. As Spain was officially neutral towards the French revolution, of which Saint-Domingue’s revolution was regarded as a mere echo, it kept its contacts with the black leaders in secret.\n\nSpain’s attitude changed from late January 1793, when the French National Convention executed Louis XVI. From then on, the Spanish government considered that it was unnecessary to stay officially neutral towards France and both countries declared war on each other in March 1793. As a consequence, Charles IV of Spain issued his instructions to the Dominican authorities, which needed to begin official dealings with Saint-Domingue’s black generals to persuade them to join the Dominican army.\n\nNegotiations, which were carried out by the mulatto priest José Vázquez, finished on May 6, 1793 with Jean-François’ oath of loyalty to the Spanish King in his name and in the name of his soldiers. The said oath was confirmed by Jean-François some days later, in an official letter addressed to the Dominican Archbishop, Fernando del Portillo y Torres. Nevertheless, the slave leaders made it clear that they did not support the Spanish King as an end in itself, but as a means of avenging the French King, the Spanish sovereign’s cousin.\n\nJean-François and his collaborators became Carlos IV’s black auxiliary troops, since the colour of their skin prevented the Spaniards from considering them part of the colonial regular army. Their alliance to Spain was crucial for the Spanish army to make important progress in Hispaniola against the French, conquering important positions like Gonaïves, Gros-Morne, Plaisance, Acul, Limbé, Port-Margot, Borgne, Petit-Saint-Louis and Terre-Neuve.\n\nNevertheless, there had always existed a strong tension between Jean-François and Biassou that led to an armed confrontation in September 1793. Both generals confronted each other and the French took advantage of the instability within the black auxiliaries to re-conquer the Tannerie fort, recently occupied by Jean-François’ troops. That episode convinced the Dominican government of the necessity to put an end to the internal tension of the black army, which was achieved thanks to the intervention of the Dominican Brigadier Matías de Armona, who persuaded them to meet in Dondon and come to an agreement by late November 1793.\n\nIn the following weeks, the black auxiliaries achieved many other victories at the service of Spain, especially the conquest of Port Margot at the beginning in 1794, which earned them several golden and silver medals given by the Spanish Crown.\n\nThe prestige of the black auxiliaries started to decay in July 1794, after the massacre of Bayajá. This place had been a French possession (Fort Dauphin) until the Spaniards conquered it in January 1794. At that moment, the authorities of the village asked the Spaniards to not let Jean-François’ troops enter the place in the future, because they were afraid that the latter would massacre them, provided that most of its inhabitants were the former owners of Jean-François’ collaborators, and also that one of the officers that surrendered the city to Spain was the mulato Candy, Jean-François’ former subordinate that had deserted to the French camp.\n\nDespite the described circumstances, on July 7, 1794 Jean-François entered the place with his troops and massacred the French inhabitants, mostly, though many Spaniards died also in the episode. The Spanish garrison of the place did not interfere to stop the killing, for which they were criticised by other foreign governments that even accused Spain of supporting the killing from the shadow.\n\nFrom that moment on, not only did the Spaniards realise that the black auxiliaries were dangerous, but they also prevented them from taking part in any other important campaign in the future, so that such abuses would not occur again.\n\nThe Spaniards’ awareness of the black auxiliaries’ “natural savagery” as well as Santo Domingo’s cession to France in the Peace Treaty of Basel, persuaded them to get rid of Jean-François and his troops, since the circumstances that had justified their alliance to the former slaves, that is, Spain’s plan to conquer the western part of Hispaniola, had failed.\n\nFirst, Jean-François and his main collaborators were taken to Havana. But the Cuban governor, Luis de las Casas, was so afraid that their presence there would provoke a massive black insurrection in that island, that he pressured the Spanish government to throw them out of his colony.\n\nIn March 1796 they arrived to the Spanish city of Cádiz, where they were kept almost as prisoners. Their situation in that city was dramatic: the generals lost their military ranks and their right to any economic compensation after their retirement and, in addition, Jean-François had to use the few resources he had to assist his family and his companions.\n\nIn 1813, the Spanish Council of Regency decided to throw them out of that city and take them to the Coast of the Flies. Unfortunately, Jean-François never saw the resolution of the conflict that concerned his troops, as he had already died in the early days of the 19th Century, maybe in 1805, totally forgotten by the Spanish government, which “rewarded” him for his loyal services by denying any official link with him or any other slave general in the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "37292533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37292533", "title": "Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal", "text": "Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal\n\nJimmy Savile (1926–2011) was an English media personality who was well known in the United Kingdom for his eccentricities and, at the time of his death, was generally respected for his charitable work. He was knighted in 1990. In late 2012, almost a year after his death, reports surfaced indicating that Savile had committed sexual abuse throughout his 50-year career, his alleged victims ranging from prepubescent girls and boys to adults.\n\nBy 11 October 2012, allegations had been made to thirteen British police forces, which led to the setting-up of inquiries into practices at the BBC and within the National Health Service. On 19 October 2012, London's Metropolitan Police Service launched a formal criminal investigation, Operation Yewtree, into historic allegations of child sexual abuse by Savile and other individuals, some still living, over four decades. The Metropolitan Police stated that it was pursuing over 400 lines of inquiry, based on the claims of 200 witnesses, via fourteen police forces across the UK. It described the alleged abuse as being \"on an unprecedented scale\", and the number of potential victims as \"staggering\". By 19 December, eight people had been questioned as part of the investigation. The Met stated that the total number of alleged victims was 589, of whom 450 alleged abuse by Savile.\n\nThe report of the investigations undertaken jointly by the police and the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC), \"Giving Victims a Voice\", was published on 11 January 2013. It reported allegations covering a period of 50 years, including 214 alleged acts by Savile which, though uncorroborated, have been formally recorded as crimes, some involving children as young as eight. The report states \"within the recorded crimes there are 126 indecent acts and 34 rape/penetration offences.\" Alleged offences took place at thirteen hospitals as well as on BBC premises, according to the report. In October 2013 it was announced that inquiries had been extended to other hospitals. On 26 June 2014, the Secretary of State for Health, Jeremy Hunt, reported on the findings of the investigations led by Kate Lampard. He said that Savile had sexually assaulted victims aged between 5 and 75 in NHS hospitals, and he apologised to the victims. Further investigations, in hospitals and elsewhere, led to additional allegations of sexual abuse by Savile.\n\nMuch of Savile's career involved working with children and young people, including visiting schools and hospital wards. He spent 20 years presenting \"Top of the Pops\" before a teenage audience, and an overlapping 20 years presenting \"Jim'll Fix It\", in which he helped the wishes of viewers, mainly children, come true. During his lifetime, two police investigations had looked into reports about Savile, the earliest known being in 1958, but none had led to charges; the reports had each concluded that there was insufficient evidence for any charges to be brought related to sexual offences. In October 2012 it was announced that the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer, would investigate why proceedings against Savile in 2009 were dropped.\n\nThe scandal was a major factor leading to the establishment of the wider-ranging Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse which was announced by then-Home Secretary Theresa May in July 2014. In February 2015, the inquiry was reconfigured as a statutory inquiry to be chaired by Justice Lowell Goddard.\n\nJimmy Savile claimed the key to his success on \"Jim'll Fix It\" had been that he disliked children, although he later admitted to saying it to deflect scrutiny of his private life. He did not own a computer as, he claimed, he did not want people to think he was downloading child pornography. In a 1990 interview for \"The Independent on Sunday\", Lynn Barber asked him about rumours that he liked \"little girls\". Savile said: \"...the young girls in question don't gather round me because of me – it's because I know the people they love, the stars... I am of no interest to them.\"\n\nIn April 2000, Savile was the subject of an in-depth documentary by Louis Theroux, in the \"When Louis Met...\" series. In it, Theroux asked about rumours he was a paedophile. Savile said: \"[We] live in a very funny world. And it's easier for me, as a single man, to say \"I don't like children\" because that puts a lot of salacious tabloid people off the hunt... How do they know whether I am [a paedophile] or not? How does anybody know whether I am? Nobody knows whether I am or not. I know I'm not.\"\n\nA follow-up documentary, \"Louis Theroux: Savile\", about Theroux's inability to detect Savile's true nature, aired on BBC Two in 2016.\n\nBroadcaster and journalist Orla Barry, on the Irish radio station Newstalk in 2007, asked Savile about allegations aired during the original Theroux documentary. When asked about the paedophilia rumours, Savile responded, \"What rumours?\". In 2012, Barry expressed surprise that other journalists had not pursued the matter, saying, \"Maybe in the UK they were slightly closer to him.\"\n\nIn 2007, Savile was interviewed under caution by police investigating an allegation of indecent assault at the now-closed Duncroft Approved School for Girls near Staines, Surrey in the 1970s, when he was a regular visitor. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) advised there was insufficient evidence to take any further action and no charges were brought. In 2012 it was reported that staff at the school had not been questioned about the allegations at the time. A former headmistress of the school said she had been \"hoodwinked\" by Savile, but described some of those who had brought the allegations as \"delinquents\".\n\nIn March 2008, Savile started legal proceedings against \"The Sun\" newspaper, which had linked him in several articles to child abuse at the Jersey children's home Haut de la Garenne. Savile denied visiting Haut de la Garenne, but admitted doing so after a photograph was published showing him at the home surrounded by children. The States of Jersey Police said an allegation of indecent assault by Savile at the home in the 1970s had been investigated in 2008, but there had been insufficient evidence to proceed.\n\nSavile died on 29 October 2011, aged 84. At the time of his death and the funeral in Leeds Cathedral, he was widely praised for his charity and voluntary activities as well as his entertainment work.\n\nImmediately after Savile's death, Meirion Jones and Liz Mackean from the BBC programme \"Newsnight\" began to investigate reports that he had sexually abused children. They interviewed one alleged victim on camera and talked to a number of others who were willing to be quoted about alleged abuse at Duncroft Approved School, the BBC, and Stoke Mandeville Hospital. The former headmistress of Duncroft was Jones' own aunt. The \"Newsnight\" team, which included former police detective Mark Williams-Thomas, also found out about a 2009 Surrey Police investigation into Savile. The report was scheduled for broadcast on 7 December 2011, but a decision was taken to cancel its transmission, which ultimately developed into a major crisis for the BBC when the allegations against Savile were made public in October 2012. The subsequent Pollard Review found that Jones and MacKean had assembled cogent evidence that Savile had a history of abusing young women and \"Newsnight\" had been in a position to break the story in 2011.\n\nIn January 2012, the \"Sunday Mirror\" reported that \"Newsnight\" had investigated allegations of sexual abuse immediately after Savile's death but that the report had been shelved. An article by Miles Goslett in the March 2012 edition of \"The Oldie\" alleged a cover-up. The BBC showed two Savile tributes over the 2011 Christmas period, and it was alleged that the \"Newsnight\" report had been dropped because its content would have compromised the showing of the tributes. A joint submission to the Leveson Inquiry from Anna van Heeswijk (Object), Jacqui Hunt (Equality Now), Heather Harvey (Eaves) and Marai Larasi (End Violence against Women) was titled \"Just the Women\", a phrase which was reportedly written by \"Newsnight\" editor Peter Rippon in an email to a colleague concerning the lack of other authorities [than the alleged female victims] for evidence of Savile's abuse. A \"Newsnight\" spokesman said, \"Any suggestion that a story was dropped for anything other than editorial reasons is completely untrue.\"\n\nIn October 2013, the transcript of Surrey Police's interview with Savile in 2009 was published after a request under the Freedom of information Act. Savile denied the sexual abuse allegations relating to Duncroft Approved School put to him by the police, saying, \"I've never, ever done anything wrong\" and stating that the accusers wanted a \"few quid\".\n\nAn ITV documentary, \"Exposure: The Other Side of Jimmy Savile\", was broadcast on 3 October 2012. It was researched and presented by Mark Williams-Thomas, a former police investigator who had been involved in the shelved \"Newsnight\" investigation.\n\nSeveral women interviewed by \"Exposure\" said that, as teenagers, they had been sexually abused by Savile. It was also said Savile obtained access to teenage girls through his television programmes \"Top of the Pops\" and \"Clunk, Click\" (1973–74), and his charity work. Savile's former colleagues said he made no attempt to hide his interest in girls from them, while another said she had walked in on him french kissing an underage girl. One woman who said Savile had sexually assaulted her in 1970, when she was 14, explained she had not pursued her complaint to police in 2008 after being told it would lead to a \"media circus\". The founder of ChildLine, Esther Rantzen, was shown the interviews by Williams-Thomas and commented that, \"There were always rumours that [Savile] behaved very inappropriately sexually with children.\"\n\nAn update to the original documentary, \"Exposure Update: The Jimmy Savile Investigation\", was shown on ITV on 21 November. It won a Peabody Award in 2012.\n\nNewspaper reports claimed Douglas Muggeridge, controller of BBC Radio 1 in the early 1970s, was aware of allegations against Savile, and asked for a report in 1973. Derek Chinnery, controller of Radio 1 from 1978 to 1985, recalled an occasion when he confronted Savile, saying, \"I asked, 'What's all this, these rumours we hear about you Jimmy?' And he said, 'That's all nonsense'. There was no reason to disbelieve.\" Michael Grade told Channel 4 News that during his time at the BBC he had \"fleetingly\" heard rumours about Savile, but described claims of a cover-up as \"ludicrous\". The BBC said no evidence of allegations of misconduct or actual misconduct by Savile had been found in its files and denied there had been a cover-up of his activities.\n\nOn 8 October, the Director-General of the BBC, George Entwistle, apologised for what had happened and said further internal investigations would take place. The chairman of the BBC Trust, Lord Patten, said the investigation would be set up as soon as police enquiries had been completed, and would be chaired by a figure from outside the BBC. As a result of the shelving of the \"Newsnight\" investigation into Savile's activities (see above), there were complaints on \"Newswatch\". On 11 October 2012, Entwistle asked BBC Scotland director Ken MacQuarrie to look into staff concerns over the dropping of the item. He announced a review of BBC policy on child protection, and an enquiry into its culture and practices, focusing on the years Savile worked there.\n\nThe BBC was criticised in Parliament for its handling of the affair. Harriet Harman said the allegations \"cast a stain\" on the corporation. Culture Secretary Maria Miller said she was satisfied the BBC was taking the allegations very seriously, and dismissed calls for an independent inquiry. Labour leader Ed Miliband said an independent inquiry was the only way to ensure justice for those involved. Entwistle offered to appear before the Culture, Media and Sport Committee to explain the BBC's position and actions.\n\nOn 16 October, the BBC appointed heads of two inquiries into events surrounding Savile. Former High Court judge Dame Janet Smith, who led the inquiry into serial killer Harold Shipman, was to review the culture and practices of the BBC during the time Savile worked there, and Nick Pollard, a former Sky News executive, would look at why the \"Newsnight\" investigation was dropped shortly before transmission.\n\nA \"Panorama\" investigation into the BBC's actions was broadcast on 22 October 2012. Entwistle declined to be interviewed, citing legal advice that BBC senior management should co-operate only with the police, the BBC's reviews and Parliament. On 21 October it was reported that Jones had warned Rippon in December 2011 that the BBC risked being accused of a cover-up if the item was dropped. On 22 October the BBC announced Rippon would \"step aside\" from his role of editor with immediate effect. On the day after the \"Panorama\" broadcast, Entwistle appeared before the Parliamentary Culture, Media and Sport Committee, at which he faced hostile questioning and stated that it had been a \"catastrophic mistake\" to cancel the \"Newsnight\" broadcast.\n\nPaul Gambaccini, who worked next door to Savile's office at BBC Radio 1 from 1973, said he was aware of rumours of Savile being a necrophile and stated:\"The expression which I came to associate with Savile's sex partners was ... the now politically incorrect 'under-age subnormals'. He targeted the institutionalised, the hospitalised – and this was known. Why did Jimmy Savile go to hospitals? That's where the patients were.\" Gambaccini claimed that Savile bribed the police. Sir Roger Jones, former chairman of \"Children in Need\", the BBC's annual telethon to support disadvantaged children and young people, said Savile had been barred from involvement because of rumours about an inappropriate interest in young girls. Savile had appeared on the telethon in 1984, 1987 and 1989 before Jones became chairman.\n\nThe report by Pollard into the BBC's handling of the affair was published on 19 December 2012. It concluded that the decision to drop the \"Newsnight\" report on the allegations against Savile in December 2011 was \"flawed\", but that it had not been done to protect the Savile tribute programmes. However, it criticised Entwistle for apparently failing to read emails warning him of Savile's \"dark side\", and that, after the allegations against Savile eventually became public, the BBC fell into a \"level of chaos and confusion [that] was even greater than was apparent at the time\". The BBC announced that Rippon and \"Newsnight\" deputy editor Liz Gibbons would be replaced. Transcripts of evidence to the Pollard inquiry, together with emails and other submissions, were published on 22 February 2013.\n\nJones, who first broke the scandal, was terminated from the BBC in February 2015. Mackean, who was also involved in the \"Newsnight\" report, left the BBC in early 2013, and stated, \"When the Savile scandal broke, the BBC tried to smear my reputation.\" Tom Giles, the editor of \"Panorama\" that aired the investigation on Savile on 22 October 2012, is now in an administrative position at BBC. Clive Edwards, who as commissioning editor for current affairs oversaw the \"Panorama\" documentary, was decommissioned.\n\nIn November 2012, Dame Janet Smith called for evidence, from people who were the subject of inappropriate sexual conduct by Savile on BBC premises, or on location for the BBC; people who knew of or suspected such conduct; anyone who raised concerns about Savile's conduct within the BBC; people who worked for or with Savile on programmes at the BBC between about 1964 and 2007, or who were familiar with \"the culture or practices of the BBC during that time insofar as they may have been relevant to preventing or enabling the sexual abuse of children, young people or teenagers\"; and people who held senior positions at the BBC who may have relevant information. By 5 December 2012, the review's team had been contacted by \"over 290\" individuals, including many former or current BBC employees. On 1 May 2015 it was announced that the review report was finished, but it could not be published as it might prejudice ongoing police investigations.\n\nThe review was published 25 February 2016. The review, which totalled more than 700 pages, found Savile had sexually abused 72 people and had raped eight people, including an eight-year-old, at \"virtually every one of the BBC premises at which he worked\". Smith stated that some BBC staff members were aware of complaints against Savile but did not pass the information to senior management due to the \"culture of not complaining.\" She described an \"atmosphere of fear\" still existing at the BBC and said that some of those interviewed for the inquiry did so only after being assured their names would not be published, as they feared reprisal. A separate report into the offending of Stuart Hall, another BBC presenter, was released the same day.\n\nFollowing the broadcast of the ITV documentary, many people came forward to make allegations about Savile's conduct towards young people. Some abuse was said to have taken place on BBC premises. It was claimed that Savile had abused at least one boy as well as numerous girls.\n\nClaims were made about Savile's activities in hospitals. It was claimed that he sexually abused a 13-year-old patient during a visit to Stoke Mandeville Hospital in 1971 and an eight-year-old girl in the same hospital recovering from an operation. Staff reported he searched the wards for young patients to abuse, and they instructed patients in the children's ward to feign sleep during his visits. A hospital spokesman said, though it was working with the police, it had no record of inappropriate behaviour by Savile. The BBC carried statements from a retired detective inspector of the local police force that a nurse at Stoke Mandeville hospital had reported Savile's abuse of patients there to him in the 1970s and he had repeatedly informed his superiors about this, but they did not believe him.\n\nA former nurse said she saw Savile molest a brain-damaged patient at Leeds hospital, saying, \"He kissed her, and I thought he was a visitor coming to see her, and he started rubbing his hands down her arms and then I don't know of a nice way to put it but he molested her.\"\n\nSavile was a volunteer at the adult high-security psychiatric Broadmoor Hospital, and in August 1988 was appointed to chair an interim task force overseeing the management of the hospital, after its management board had been suspended. It is alleged that Savile had hospital keys and access to patients' rooms. In a separate allegation, a lawyer said a client had been abused by Savile when he was a 10-year-old at the Haut de la Garenne children's home in Jersey.\n\nJulie Fernandez, who later appeared in BBC television programmes \"Eldorado\" and \"The Office\", was invited to a BBC studio to appear on \"Jim'll Fix It\". She recalled her experience in a radio interview: \"I was in my wheelchair, but I just remember [Savile's] hands being everywhere and just lingering those two, three, four seconds slightly too long in places they shouldn't [...] It was in a busy room full of people in a studio so it was quite discreetly done and you don't kind of realise what's happening at the time, especially when you're 14 and it's the first time you've ever been in a studio and you're very excited. But I do remember feeling uncomfortable and he had these huge rings on his fingers.\"\n\nSinger Coleen Nolan said Savile invited her to a hotel when she was 14 and had been involved in a TV recording at the \"Top of the Pops\" studio and that it made her \"uncomfortable\", \"But you didn't talk about those things then.\" Savile's great-niece Caroline Robinson said she had been sexually abused by him twice at family gatherings. She believed some members of the family knew about his abuse but had turned a blind eye to it.\n\nThe British Prime Minister, David Cameron, said that he was \"truly shocked\" by the published allegations, which should be \"properly investigated\". The Jimmy Savile Charitable Trust stated that it was considering giving funds to those working with victims of sexual abuse, and that it may change its name because of the allegations; the trust later announced that it would close. As part of the investigations, enquiries would be made into allegations of abuse when Savile worked as a volunteer at Leeds General Infirmary.\n\nIn October 2012, it was reported that the \"Sunday Mirror\" had decided not to publish allegations of sexual abuse at a children's home by two women against Savile. Paul Connew, who was the newspaper's editor when the women came forward in 1994, described the allegations as \"credible and convincing\", but said that lawyers had advised against publication. In July 2013, Connew said that he believed that the newspaper would have lost a libel action over the allegations, as the two women, who had been pupils at Duncroft Approved School, did not want to be named. He also expressed concern that a jury would have been \"starstruck\" by Savile.\n\nIn November 2014 the Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt announced that the enquiry had been widened, with the number of NHS organisations investigating allegations of abuse by Savile extended to 41.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police Service stated on 4 October 2012 that its Child Abuse Investigation Command would lead a process of assessing the allegations. By 9 October the Metropolitan Police had formally recorded eight allegations against Savile, but announced that it was following up 120 lines of inquiry, addressing up to 25 alleged victims of abuse, mainly girls aged between 13 and 16. These covered a period spanning four decades, from 1959 until the 1980s, and were on \"a national scale\". An inquiry process, known as Operation Yewtree, was set up jointly with the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC), and involving other organisations including the BBC and ITV. Commander Peter Spindler, head of specialist crime investigations, said: \"At this stage it is quite clear from what women are telling us that Savile was a predatory sex offender.\"\n\nOn 19 October 2012 the Metropolitan Police launched a formal criminal investigation into historic allegations of child sex abuse by Savile over four decades. It stated that it was pursuing over 400 separate lines of inquiry based on evidence of 200 witnesses via 14 police forces across the UK. Commander Spindler said: \"We are dealing with alleged abuse on an unprecedented scale. The profile of this operation has empowered a staggering number of victims to come forward to report the sexual exploitation which occurred during their childhood.\" John Cameron of the NSPCC said that Savile was \"a well-organised prolific sex offender, who's used his power, his authority, his influence to procure children and offend against them.\"\n\nOn 25 October the police reported that the number of possible victims was \"fast approaching 300\". It was also reported that police were looking at allegations that three doctors in hospitals with which Savile had been associated had been involved in the abuse of young people in their care.\n\nBy 19 December, eight people had been arrested for questioning, and later bailed, as part of the inquiry. These included former pop star Gary Glitter; comedian Freddie Starr; former BBC producers Wilfred De'ath and Ted Beston; DJ Dave Lee Travis; publicist Max Clifford; Rolf Harris; and an unnamed man in his 60s. Travis stated that his arrest had been connected with matters not linked to children. Clifford denied what he termed the \"damaging and totally untrue allegations\".\n\nIn early 2013, comedian Jim Davidson and two unnamed men were arrested as part of the inquiry, bringing the total to 11. De'Ath was later told that he would not face any charges, and said that the police action had been \"overzealous\". In May 2013, it was reported that Ted Beston would not face prosecution due to insufficient evidence.\n\nOn 12 December, Commander Peter Spindler said that the investigation had been completed and that the report of Operation Yewtree was being prepared for publication early in 2013. He said that a total of 589 alleged victims of abuse had come forward in the inquiry, of whom 450 alleged abuse by Savile. Of the alleged victims, 82% were female and 80% were children or young people. There were 31 allegations of rape by Savile across seven police force areas. Commander Spindler said: \"Savile's offending peaked in the 70s and what we... will be showing... is how he used his position in society... to get his sexual gratification.\" The operation had involved 30 police officers, and its cost so far was estimated at about £2 million.\n\nOn 11 January 2013, \"Giving Victims a Voice\", a report into allegations of sexual abuse made against Jimmy Savile under Operation Yewtree by the Metropolitan Police Service and the NSPCC was published under the logo of the Crown Prosecution Service. Among its conclusions are that \"It is now clear that Savile was hiding in plain sight and using his celebrity status and fundraising activity to gain uncontrolled access to vulnerable people across six decades. For a variety of reasons the vast majority of his victims did not feel they could speak out and it's apparent that some of the small number who did had their accounts dismissed by those in authority including parents and carers.\"\n\nThe document was given wide publicity throughout the media. Journalist Charles Moore wrote in \"The Daily Telegraph\" that he had read the whole report and it did not reveal the extent of abuse as the BBC website had stated in the lead headline \"Jimmy Savile scandal: Report reveals extent of abuse\". He remarked that there was no evidence in the report which a court would recognise. Instead it assumed that because uncorroborated allegations had been made, the offences were committed, and, treating allegations as facts, it declared that 214 incidents had now been \"formally recorded\" as crimes. Moore commented that by doing so the report undermined justice. Jonathan Brown, writing in \"The Independent\", said that the report \"revealed a man who used his celebrity status and outwardly well-intended works to gain access to and ultimately rape and sexually exploit hundreds of vulnerable young star-struck victims...\"\n\nIn March 2013 Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary reported that 214 of the complaints that had been made against Savile after his death would have been criminal offences if they had been reported at the time. Sixteen persons reported being raped by Savile under the age of 16 and four of those were under the age of ten. Thirteen others reported serious sexual abuse by Savile, including four under-ten-year-olds. Another ten reported being raped by Savile while over the age of sixteen.\n\nDJ and friend of Savile Ray Teret was found guilty of seven rapes and 11 indecent assaults in December 2014; while Teret was cleared of aiding and abetting Savile to rape a 15-year-old girl, he was found guilty of raping the same complainant. An attorney for 169 of Savile's alleged victims stated that Teret's guilty verdicts represent \"the closest the victims of Jimmy Savile will get to a conviction against their attacker\".\n\nOn 24 October 2012 the Crown Prosecution Service said the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer, would review the service's decisions not to prosecute Savile in 2009 in relation to four claims against him for sexual abuse dating back to the 1970s. The report, prepared by the principal legal advisor to the DPP, Alison Levitt QC, was published on 11 January 2013. It found that, if police and prosecutors had taken a different approach towards the allegations, prosecutions could have been possible in relation to three of the claims. Keir Starmer apologised for the shortcomings of the CPS and criticised two police forces for taking an \"unjustifiably cautious\" approach.\n\nIn November 2013, shortly after he left the position of Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer called for mandatory reporting which would compel all professionals such as teachers, doctors and social workers to report suspicions of child abuse or face legal consequences in the light of the scandal.\n\nThe Home Secretary, Theresa May, announced on 6 November 2012 that Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary would also carry out an assessment of all the investigations relating to Savile undertaken by police forces across the country, examine whether allegations were properly investigated, and identify any related issues.\n\nOn 12 March 2013, a report entitled \"Mistakes were made: HMIC's review into allegations and intelligence material concerning Jimmy Savile between 1964 and 2012\" was published, which included material showing that police had received intelligence about Savile's sexual conduct dating back to 1963.\n\nOn 7 November 2012 it was announced that an inquiry would also be undertaken, by a senior legal figure from outside the island, into allegations that Savile had abused children at Haut de la Garenne in Jersey.\n\nOn 10 May 2013, West Yorkshire Police published a report into the relationship of the force with Savile. It concluded that he had not been protected from arrest or prosecution, but that there had been an \"over-reliance on personal friendships\" between Savile and some officers. The report states that there are \"currently 76 crimes involving 68 victims committed in the West Yorkshire area relating to Savile\", but none of them were reported to the police before his death. Nine of the incidents relate to persons under the age of nine, the youngest being aged five. A copy of the report was to be passed to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.\n\nOn 18 December 2014, North Yorkshire Police published a report of an internal inquiry into its actions. The inquiry, termed Operation Hibiscus, found no evidence of misconduct by officers, but also concluded that opportunities had been missed to prosecute both Savile and Peter Jaconelli, a former mayor of Scarborough who died in 1999, for child sex abuse. The report stated that 32 allegations had been made against Jaconelli, and five against Savile. Jaconelli was stripped of civic honours earlier in 2014 after allegations against him were first published by the \"North Yorks Enquirer\". The Assistant Chief Constable of North Yorkshire Police, Paul Kennedy, said that the report showed that there would have been sufficient evidence for the Crown Prosecution Service to consider criminal charges against both Savile and Jaconelli if they were still alive.\n\nOn 29 April 2015, Surrey Police published a report stating that Savile had sexually assaulted 22 students and a visitor at the Duncroft Approved School for Girls in Staines-upon-Thames between 1974 and 1979. The report said that Savile had committed at least 46 offences at the school, including one which would have been classed as rape under current law.\n\nThe Department of Health announced that former barrister Kate Lampard would chair the department's investigations into Savile's activities at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Leeds General Infirmary, Broadmoor Hospital and other hospitals and facilities in England. In October 2013 the Secretary of State for Health, Jeremy Hunt, announced that inquiries had been extended to other, unnamed, hospitals. As at November 2013, the list of hospitals investigated included:\n\nThe results of the investigations were made public by Hunt on 26 June 2014. The report concluded that Savile sexually assaulted victims in NHS hospitals over several decades. At Leeds General Infirmary, 60 people, including both staff and patients, stated that they had been abused by Savile, with their ages ranging from 5 to 75. It reported a number of organisational failures which had allowed him to continue unchallenged. Hunt apologised to the victims of the assaults, and said that the findings \"will shake our country to the core\".\n\nIt was reported that Savile had boasted to nurses and other staff that he performed sex acts on the bodies of recently deceased persons in the mortuary of Leeds General Hospital and claimed to have removed glass eyes from corpses and made them into rings. The report says \"We have no way of proving Savile's claims that he interfered with the bodies of the deceased patients in the mortuary in this way\" but that Savile did have unsupervised access to the mortuary.\n\nA separate report on Savile's activities at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, prepared by independent investigator Dr Androulla Johnstone and published on 26 February 2015, found that he had sexually abused more than 50 people there, including staff, patients and visitors. One was an 8-year-old child. Savile had full access to all parts of the hospital. The report stated that it was widely known at the hospital that Savile was a \"sex pest\", and that 10 complaints had been made at the time, but no action was taken.\n\nAlso published on 26 February 2015 was Kate Lampard's report into lessons to be learned from the health service's handling of the Savile scandal. She concluded that:\"Savile was a highly unusual personality whose lifestyle, behaviour and offending patterns were equally unusual. As a result of his celebrity, his volunteering, and his fundraising he had exceptional access to a number of NHS hospitals and took the opportunities that that access gave him to abuse patients, staff and others on a remarkable scale. Savile’s celebrity and his roles as a volunteer and fundraiser also gave him power and influence within NHS hospitals which meant that his behaviour, which was often evidently inappropriate, was not challenged as it should have been. Savile’s ability to continue to pursue his activities without effective challenge was aided by fragmented hospital management arrangements; social attitudes of the times, including reticence in reporting and accepting reports of sexual harassment and abuse, and greater deference than today towards those in positions of influence and power; and less bold and intrusive media reporting. While it might be tempting to dismiss the Savile case as wholly exceptional, a unique result of a perfect storm of circumstances, the evidence we have gathered indicates that there are many elements of the Savile story that could be repeated in the future. There is always a risk of the abuse, including sexual abuse, of people in hospitals. There will always be people who seek to gain undue influence and power within public institutions including in hospitals. And society and individuals continue to have a weakness for celebrities. Hospital organisations need to be aware of the risks posed by these\nmatters and manage them appropriately.\"\n\nA report for the Department for Education reached no firm conclusions over whether Savile had abused children or staff when visiting schools and children's homes, or hosting shows at which they had been invited to attend, between the 1960s and 1980s. The report, published on 26 February 2015, brought together the findings of various investigations carried out by local authorities, charities and schools. The Children's Minister, Edward Timpson, said that, though information had been received from credible sources, there was insufficient corroborating evidence to draw firm conclusions.\n\nOn 8 November 2012 the Shadow Home Secretary, Yvette Cooper, called in Parliament for a single, overarching public inquiry to examine all recent allegations of child abuse, including those relating to the North Wales child abuse scandal and those related to Savile. This was supported by former minister Tim Loughton and the NSPCC.\n\nAn overarching panel inquiry was announced by the Home Secretary, Theresa May, in July 2014, to examine how the country's institutions had handled their duty of care to protect children from sexual abuse. It is to be led by an independent panel of experts, and was to be chaired by Baroness Butler-Sloss. On 14 July it was announced that Baroness Butler-Sloss was standing down, and that a new chair would be appointed. On 5 September it was announced that it would be chaired by Fiona Woolf but on 31 October 2014 she too resigned from the role. On 4 February 2015 May announced that the inquiry would be chaired by Justice Lowell Goddard, a New Zealand High Court judge, and would be given new powers as a statutory inquiry. Dame Goddard resigned the chair of the Inquiry on 4 August 2016 to return to New Zealand but the Inquiry's work continued. Dame Goddard later said that she was prevented from selecting her own staff and the Shirley Oaks Survivors Association withdrew from the Inquiry over concerns about its true independence.\n\nSavile's family asked \"out of respect to public opinion\" that his gravestone be taken from the cemetery where his body is buried. Scarborough Borough Council and funeral directors removed it \"under cover of night\" and sent it to landfill.\n\nIt was announced that Savile's inscription in the wall of Leeds Civic Hall would be removed in October 2012. In the same month a café at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, originally called \"Jimmy's\" and displaying a neon sign in the shape of Savile's signature, was renamed 'Cafe@WRVS'. Cunard cancelled a sail-past tribute to Savile's burial place at Scarborough, scheduled for 15:00 BST on 1 August 2013. The University of Bedfordshire stripped Savile of the honorary degree it had awarded him in 2009. Savile's name was removed from the Great North Run Hall of Fame.\n\nOn 23 October 2012 two registered charities, the Jimmy Savile Charitable Trust and the Jimmy Savile Stoke Mandeville Hospital Trust, set up to \"provide funds for the relief of poverty and sickness and other charitable purposes beneficial to the community\", announced they would close and have their funds redistributed to other charities.\n\nIt was reported on 28 October 2012 that Savile's cottage in Glen Coe had been spray-painted with slogans and the door damaged. The cottage had been searched by police looking for evidence of others involved with him in abuse. Plans to sell the cottage early in 2012 were halted by Savile's charitable trust, which had planned to turn it into a respite centre for the disabled. These plans were in turn halted when the trust announced it would close. The cottage was sold at auction on 30 May 2013.\n\nOn 2 November it was reported that letters had been sent to Savile's estate, the BBC, Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Broadmoor, and Leeds General Infirmary by solicitors acting on behalf of 20 clients who claimed to have been abused by Savile, and that legal action against them was being considered.\n\nIn November 2012 the BBC confirmed that it would no longer be airing further repeats of \"Top of the Pops\" on BBC Four featuring Savile as a presenter.\n\nOn 20 January 2013 the BBC apologised after it had screened a 2001 episode of the children's programme \"Tweenies\" on CBeebies, in which the character Max had presented a parody of \"Top of The Pops\", dressed up and with a hairstyle similar to Savile's, and also using some of his catchphrases.\n\nIn June 2015 a stage play about Savile and the abuse scandal was premiered at Park Theatre in Finsbury Park, London. Titled \"An Audience with Jimmy Savile\", it was written by Jonathan Maitland and starred Alistair McGowan as Savile.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246043", "title": "Kindness", "text": "Kindness\n\nKindness is a behavior marked by ethical characteristics, a pleasant disposition, and concern and consideration for others. It is considered a virtue, and is recognized as a value in many cultures and religions (see ethics in religion). \n\nIn Book II of \"Rhetoric\", Aristotle defines kindness as \"helpfulness towards someone in need, not in return for anything, nor for the advantage of the helper himself, but for that of the person helped\". Nietzsche considered kindness and love to be the \"most curative herbs and agents in human intercourse\". Kindness is considered to be one of the Knightly Virtues. In Meher Baba's teachings, God is synonymous with kindness: \"God is so kind that it is impossible to imagine His unbounded kindness!\"\n\nIn human mating choice, studies suggest that both men and women value kindness and intelligence in their prospective mates, along with physical appearance, attractiveness, social status, and age.\n\nA \"nice guy\" is an informal and usually stereotypical term for an (often young) adult male who portrays himself as gentle, compassionate, sensitive, and/or vulnerable. The term is used both positively and negatively. When used positively, and particularly when used as a preference or description by someone else, it is intended to imply a male who puts the needs of others before his own, avoids confrontations, does favors, gives emotional support, tries to stay out of trouble, and generally acts nicely towards others. In the context of a relationship, it may also refer to traits of honesty, loyalty, romanticism, courtesy and respect. When used negatively, a nice guy implies a male who is unassertive, does not express his true feelings and, in the context of dating (in which the term is often used), uses acts of friendship with the unstated aim of progressing to a romantic or sexual relationship.\n\nBased on experiments at Yale University using games with babies, some studies concluded that kindness is inherent to human beings. There are similar studies about the root of empathy in babies.\n\n\nBased on the novel of the same name written in 1999 by author Catherine Ryan Hyde, the motion picture \"Pay it Forward\", which starred Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment and Jon Bon Jovi, illustrates the power one person can have to impact a chain reaction of kind deeds. The philosophy of Pay It Forward is that through acts of kindness among strangers, we all foster a more caring society. In the book and film, Reuben St. Clair, a social studies teacher in Atascadero, California, challenges his students to \"change the world\". One of his students, Trevor, takes the challenge to heart. He starts by showing kindness to a stranger which ripples further than he could have ever imagined.\n\nIn October 2011, Life Vest Inside posted a video called \"Kindness Boomerang\".It shows how one act of kindness passes seamlessly from one person to the next and boomerangs back to the person who set it into motion. Orly Wahba, Life Vest Inside Founder and Director of Kindness Boomerang explains that each scene was based on real life experiences she personally went through; moments of kindness that left a lasting impression on her life. Within several months after its release, Kindness Boomerang went viral; reaching over 20 million people globally and eventually landing Wahba spot on the TED2013 stage to speak about the power of kindness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22418547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22418547", "title": "List of disasters in Poland by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Poland by death toll\n\nListed below are the worst disasters in Poland's history, listed by death toll. This list excludes warfare and intentional acts of destruction, but may include accidents in which the military, Polish or foreign, was involved (e.g. Osiecznica bus disaster - a collision between a Polish bus and a Soviet Army's truck).\n\nSome of the disasters listed here occurred outside of current Polish borders (e.g. the Smolensk Tu-154 crash) or in times when Poland was not internationally recognized (e.g. during the partitions of Poland), but the predominant number of victims were either Poles or Polish citizens.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39830693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39830693", "title": "List of the deadliest firefighter disasters in the United States", "text": "List of the deadliest firefighter disasters in the United States\n\nBelow is a list of the deadliest firefighter disasters in the United States, in which more than five firefighters died.\n"}
{"id": "23864361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23864361", "title": "Lucius Aelius Lamia Plautius Aelianus", "text": "Lucius Aelius Lamia Plautius Aelianus\n\nLucius Aelius Lamia Plautius Aelianus (c. 45 - 81/96) was a Roman senator, described by Brian W. Jones as \"the most eminent of the consular victims\" of Domitian. Juvenal used his family as representative of Domitian's most noble victims; Lamia was consul suffect in 80 with three different colleagues: Aulus Didius Gallus Fabricius Veiento, Quintus Aurelius Pactumeius Fronto, and Gaius Marius Marcellus Octavius Publius Cluvius Rufus.\n\nA number of scholars have concluded that Lamia was most likely a son of Tiberius Plautius Silvanus Aelianus. He married Domitia Longina, the daughter of the general Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo and Cassia Longina. Their son is thought to have been Lucius Fundanius Lamia Aelianus, born before Domitian forced them to divorce.\n\nDomitia was seduced by Domitian while his father Vespasian was still in Roman Egypt (AD 70); Domitian afterwards forced Lamia to divorce her so he could have her for himself. Despite this, Lamia retained his sense of humor. Jones suspects it was his sense of humor, in the form of harmless jokes directed at the emperor, that led to his execution. Domitian was unable to handle personal criticism of any sort, and there was ample precedent for the laws of treason to be applied to writings of this kind.\n\n"}
{"id": "249183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249183", "title": "Ludlow Massacre", "text": "Ludlow Massacre\n\nThe Ludlow Massacre emanated from a labor conflict: the Colorado National Guard and Colorado Fuel and Iron Company guards attacked a tent colony of 1,200 striking coal miners and their families at Ludlow, Colorado, on April 20, 1914, with the National Guard using machine guns to fire into the colony. Approximately twenty-one people, including miners' wives and children, were killed. The chief owner of the mine, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., was widely excoriated for having orchestrated the massacre.\n\nThe massacre, the seminal event in the Colorado Coal Wars resulted in the deaths of an estimated twenty-one people; accounts vary. Ludlow was the deadliest single incident in the southern Colorado Coal Strike, which lasted from September 1913 through December 1914. The strike was organized by the miners against coal mining companies in Colorado. The three largest companies involved were Colorado Fuel & Iron Company, owned by the powerful Rockefeller family; Rocky Mountain Fuel Company, and Victor-American Fuel Company.\n\nIn retaliation for the massacre at Ludlow, the miners armed themselves and attacked dozens of anti-union establishments over the next ten days, destroying property and engaging in several skirmishes with the Colorado National Guard along a 40-mile front from Trinidad to Walsenburg. An estimated 69 to 199 deaths occurred during the entire strike. Thomas G. Andrews described it as the \"deadliest strike in the history of the United States\", and it is commonly referred to as the Colorado Coalfield War.\n\nThe Ludlow Massacre was a watershed moment in American labor relations. Historian Howard Zinn described this as \"the culminating act of perhaps the most violent struggle between corporate power and laboring men in American history\". Congress responded to public outrage by directing the House Committee on Mines and Mining to investigate the events. Its report, published in 1915, was influential in promoting child labor laws and an eight-hour work day.\n\nThe Ludlow site, 18 miles northwest of Trinidad, Colorado, is now a ghost town. The massacre site is owned by the United Mine Workers of America, which erected a granite monument in memory of the miners and their families who died that day. The Ludlow tent colony site was designated as a National Historic Landmark on January 16, 2009, and dedicated on June 28, 2009. Evidence from modern archeological investigation largely supports the strikers' reports of the event.\n\nAreas of the Rocky Mountains have veins of coal close to the surface of the land, providing significant and relatively accessible reserves. In 1867, these coal deposits caught the attention of William Jackson Palmer, then leading a survey team planning the route of the Kansas Pacific Railway. The rapid expansion of rail transport in the United States made coal a highly valued commodity, and it was rapidly commercialized.\n\nAt its peak in 1910, the coal mining industry of Colorado employed 15,864 people, accounting for 10 percent of those employed in the state. Colorado's coal industry was dominated by a handful of operators. Colorado Fuel and Iron, was the largest coal operator in the west, as well as one of the nation's most powerful corporations, at one point employing 7,050 individuals and controlling of coal land. The Colorado Fuel & Iron Company was purchased by John D. Rockefeller in 1902, and nine years later he turned over his controlling interest in the company to his son, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., who managed the company from his offices at 26 Broadway in New York.\n\nMining was dangerous and difficult work. Colliers in Colorado were at constant risk for explosion, suffocation, and collapsing mine walls. In 1912, the death rate in Colorado's mines was 7.055 per 1,000 employees, compared to a national rate of 3.15. In 1914, the United States House Committee on Mines and Mining reported that\nColorado has good mining laws and such that ought to afford protection to the miners as to safety in the mine if they were enforced, yet in this State the percentage of fatalities is larger than any other, showing there is undoubtedly something wrong in reference to the management of its coal mines.\n\nMiners were generally paid according to tonnage of coal produced, while so-called \"dead work\", such as shoring up unstable roofs, was often unpaid. According to historian Thomas G. Andrews, the tonnage system drove many poor and ambitious colliers to gamble with their lives by neglecting precautions and taking on risk, with consequences that were often fatal. Between 1884 and 1912, mining accidents claimed the lives of more than 1,700 in Colorado. In 1913 alone, \"104 men would die in Colorado's mines, and 6 in the mine workings on the surface, in accidents that widowed 51 and left 108 children fatherless.\"\n\nColliers had little opportunity to air their grievances. Many colliers resided in company towns, in which all land, real estate, and amenities were owned by the mine operator, and which were expressly designed to inculcate loyalty and squelch dissent. Welfare capitalists believed that anger and unrest among the workers could be placated by raising colliers' standard of living, while subsuming it under company management. Company towns indeed brought tangible improvements to the lives of many colliers and their families, including larger houses, better medical care, and broader access to education. But, ownership of the towns provided companies considerable control over all aspects of workers' lives, and they did not always use this power to augment public welfare. Historian Philip S. Foner has described company towns as \"feudal domain[s], with the company acting as lord and master. ... The 'law' consisted of the company rules. Curfews were imposed. Company guards – brutal thugs armed with machine guns and rifles loaded with soft-point bullets – would not admit any 'suspicious' stranger into the camp and would not permit any miner to leave.\" Miners who came into conflict with the company were liable to find themselves and their families summarily evicted from their homes.\n\nFrustrated by working conditions which they believed were unsafe and unjust, colliers increasingly turned to unionism. Nationwide, organized mines boasted 40 percent fewer fatalities than nonunion mines. Colorado miners had repeatedly attempted to unionize since the state's first strike in 1883. The Western Federation of Miners organized primarily hard-rock miners in the gold and silver camps during the 1890s.\n\nBeginning in 1900, the United Mine Workers of America began organizing coal miners in the western states, including southern Colorado. The union decided to focus on the Colorado Fuel & Iron Company because of its harsh management tactics under the conservative and distant Rockefellers and other investors. To break or prevent strikes, the coal companies hired strike breakers, mainly from Mexico and southern and eastern Europe. The Colorado Fuel & Iron Company's management mixed immigrants of different nationalities in the mines, a practice which discouraged communication that might lead to organization.\n\nDespite attempts to suppress union activity, secret organizing by the United Mine Workers of America continued in the years leading up to 1913. Eventually, the union presented a list of seven demands on behalf of the miners:\n\n\nThe major coal companies rejected the demands. In September 1913, the United Mine Workers of America called a strike. Those who went on strike were evicted from their company homes, and they moved to tent villages prepared by the union. The tents were built on wood platforms and furnished with cast iron stoves on land leased by the union in preparation for a strike.\n\nWhen leasing the sites, the union had strategically selected tent locations near the mouths of canyons that led to the coal camps, for the purpose of blocking any strikebreakers' traffic. Confrontations between striking miners and working miners, referred to as \"scabs\" by the union, sometimes resulted in deaths. The company hired the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency to protect the new workers and harass the strikers.\n\nBaldwin–Felts had a reputation for aggressive strike breaking. Agents shone searchlights on the tent villages at night and fired bullets into the tents at random, occasionally killing and maiming people. They used an improvised armored car, mounted with a machine gun the union called the \"\" to patrol the camp's perimeters. The steel-covered car was built in the Colorado Fuel & Iron Company plant in Pueblo, Colorado from the chassis of a large touring sedan. Frequent sniper attacks on the tent colonies drove the miners to dig pits beneath the tents where they and their families could be better protected. Armed battles also occurred between (mostly Greek) strikers and sheriffs recently deputized to suppress the strike, thus earning the title \"Colorado Coalfield War.\"\n\nAs strike-related violence mounted, Colorado governor Elias M. Ammons called in the Colorado National Guard on October 28. At first, the Guard's appearance calmed the situation, but the sympathies of Guard leaders lay with company management. Guard Adjutant-General John Chase, who had served during the violent Cripple Creek strike 10 years earlier, imposed a harsh regime. On March 10, 1914, the body of a replacement worker was found on the railroad tracks near Forbes, Colorado. The National Guard said that the man had been murdered by the strikers. In retaliation, Chase ordered the Forbes tent colony destroyed. The attack was launched while the residents were attending a funeral of two infants who had died a few days earlier. The attack was witnessed by photographer Lou Dold, whose images of the destruction appear often in accounts of the strike.\n\nThe strikers persevered until the spring of 1914. By then, according to historian Anthony DeStefanis, the National Guard had largely broken the strike by helping the mine operators bring in non-union workers. The state had also run out of money to maintain the Guard, and Governor Ammons decided to recall them. The governor and the mining companies, fearing a breakdown in order, left one company of National Guardsmen in southern Colorado. They formed a new company called \"Troop A\", which consisted largely of Colorado Fuel & Iron Company mine camp guards and mine guards hired by Baldwin–Felts, who were given National Guard uniforms to wear.\n\nOn the morning of April 20, the day after the Orthodox Easter was celebrated by some in the tent colony, three Guardsmen appeared at the camp ordering the release of a man they claimed was being held against his will. The camp leader, Louis Tikas, left to meet with a local militia commander at the train station in Ludlow village, a half mile (0.8 km) from the colony. While this meeting was progressing, two companies of militia installed a machine gun on a ridge near the camp and took a position along a rail route about half a mile south of Ludlow. Anticipating trouble, Tikas ran back to the camp. The miners set out to flank the militia positions and a gunfight soon broke out. When two dynamite explosions by the militia alerted the Ludlow tent colony, the miners took up positions at the bottom of the hill. When the militia opened fire, hundreds of miners and their families ran for cover.\n\nThe fighting raged for the entire day. The militia was reinforced by non-uniformed mine guards later in the afternoon. At dusk, a passing freight train stopped on the tracks in front of the Guards' machine-gun placements, allowing many of the miners and their families to escape to an outcrop of hills to the east called the \"Black Hills.\" By 7:00 p.m., the camp was in flames, and the militia descended on it and began to search and loot the camp. Tikas had remained in the camp the entire day and was still there when the fire started. Tikas and two other men were captured by the militia. Tikas and Lt. Karl Linderfelt, commander of one of two Guard companies, had confronted each other several times in the previous months. While two militiamen held Tikas, Linderfelt broke a rifle butt over his head. Tikas and the other two captured miners were later found shot dead. Tikas had been shot in the back. Their bodies lay along the Colorado and Southern Railway tracks for three days in full view of passing trains. The militia officers refused to allow them to be moved until a local of a railway union demanded the bodies be taken away for burial.\n\nDuring the battle, four women and eleven children had been hiding in a pit beneath one tent, where they were trapped when the tent above them was set on fire. Two of the women and all of the children suffocated. These deaths became a rallying cry for the United Mine Workers of America, who called the incident the \"Ludlow Massacre.\"\n\nJulia May Courtney reported different numbers in her contemporaneous article \"Remember Ludlow!\" for the magazine \"Mother Earth\". She said that, in addition to men who were killed, a total of 55 women and children had died in the massacre. According to her account, the militia: \n\nIn addition to the miners associated victims, three company guards and one militiaman were killed in the day's fighting.\n\nIn the aftermath of the massacre, the Ten Day War ensued which was part of the wider Colorado Coalfield War. As news of the deaths of women and children spread, the leaders of organized labor issued a call to arms. They urged union members to get \"all the arms and ammunition legally available\". Subsequently, a wide-scale guerrilla war by the coal miners began against the mine guards and facilities located throughout Colorado's southern coalfields. In the town of Trinidad, the United Mine Workers of America openly and officially distributed arms and ammunition to strikers at union headquarters. Over the next ten days, 700 to 1,000 strikers \"attacked mine after mine, driving off or killing the guards and setting fire to the buildings.\" At least fifty people, including those at Ludlow, were killed during the ten days of fighting between the mine guards and miners. Hundreds of state militia reinforcements were rushed to the coalfields to regain control of the situation. The fighting, however, only ended after President Woodrow Wilson sent in federal troops. The troops, who reported directly to Washington, DC, disarmed both sides, displacing and often arresting the militia in the process. The Colorado Coalfield War produced a total death toll of approximately 75 people.\n\nThe United Mine Workers of America finally ran out of money, and called off the strike on December 10, 1914. In the end, the strikers failed to obtain their demands, the union did not obtain recognition, and many striking workers were replaced. Four-hundred-eight strikers were arrested, 332 of whom were indicted for murder. Only John R. Lawson, leader of the strike, was convicted of murder. His verdict was eventually overturned by the Colorado Supreme Court. Twenty-two National Guardsmen, including 10 officers, were court martialed. All were acquitted, except Lt. Linderfelt, who was found guilty of assault for his attack on Louis Tikas. However, he received only a light reprimand.\n\nRev. Cook pastored the local church in Trinidad, Colorado. He was one of the few pastors in Trinidad who was permitted to search and provide Christian burials to the deceased victims of the Ludlow Massacre.\n\nAlthough the UMWA failed to win recognition by the company, the strike had a lasting effect both on conditions at the Colorado mines and on labor relations nationally. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. engaged W. L. Mackenzie King, a labor relations expert and future Canadian Prime Minister, to help him develop reforms for the mines and towns. Improvements included paved roads and recreational facilities, as well as worker representation on committees dealing with working conditions, safety, health, and recreation. He prohibited discrimination against workers who had belonged to unions, and ordered the establishment of a company union. The Rockefeller plan was accepted by the miners in a vote.\n\nRockefeller also brought in pioneer public relations expert Ivy Lee, who warned that the Rockefellers were losing public support and developed a strategy that Junior followed to repair it. Junior had to overcome his shyness, go personally to Colorado to meet with the miners and their families, inspect the conditions of the homes and the factories, attend social events, and especially to listen closely to the grievances. This was novel advice, and attracted widespread media attention. The Rockefellers were able both to resolve the conflict, and present a more humanized versions of their leaders.\n\nOver time, Ludlow has assumed \"a striking centrality in the interpretation of the nation's history developed by several of the most important left-leaning thinkers of the twentieth century.\" Historian Howard Zinn wrote his master's thesis and several book chapters on Ludlow. While in graduate school, George McGovern (1922-2012) wrote his doctoral dissertation on the subject, later published in book form as \"The Great Coalfield War\". He was a historian, former United States Senator and Democratic presidential nominee.\n\nA United States Commission on Industrial Relations (CIR), headed by labor lawyer Frank Walsh, conducted hearings in Washington, DC, collecting information and taking testimony from all the principals, including John D. Rockefeller, Sr. He testified that, even after knowing that guards in his pay had committed atrocities against the strikers, he \"would have taken no action\" to prevent his hirelings from attacking them. The commission's report suggested many reforms sought by the unions, and provided support for bills establishing a national eight-hour workday and a ban on child labor.\n\nIn 1916, the United Mine Workers of America bought the site of the Ludlow tent colony. Two years later, they erected the Ludlow Monument to commemorate those who had died during the strike. The monument was damaged in May 2003 by unknown vandals. The repaired monument was unveiled on June 5, 2005, with slightly altered faces on the statues. On January 16, 2009, the Ludlow tent colony site was declared a U.S. National Historic Landmark. The citation describes the Ludlow Massacre as \"a pivotal event in American history\" and notes that its site is the first of its kind to be investigated by archeologists.\n\nThe last survivor of the Ludlow Massacre, Ermenia \"Marie\" Padilla Daley, was 3 months old during the event. She celebrated her 104th birthday on January 13, 2018. Her father was a miner and she was born in the camp. Her mother took her and her siblings away as violence escalated; they traveled by train to Trinidad, Colorado. The evacuation resulted in the family having to split up afterward. Daley was cared for by various families, and also was placed for a time in orphanages in Pueblo and Denver. She worked as a housekeeper, then married a consultant whose work allowed them to travel the world. Even with a difficult start, she kept a positive attitude about life. She sang happily at her 104th birthday party.\n\nSeveral popular songs have been written and recorded about the events at Ludlow. Among them is \"Ludlow Massacre\" by American folk singer Woody Guthrie, \"Ludlow\" by Texas country singer Jason Boland, \"Ludlow\" by New Albany, Indiana band Houndmouth, and \"The Monument (Lest We Forget)\" by Irish musician Andy Irvine.\n\nThe novel \"King Coal\" by Upton Sinclair is loosely based on the origin and aftermath of the Ludlow Massacre. Thomas Pynchon's 2006 novel, \"Against the Day\", contains a chapter on the massacre.\n\nAmerican writer and Colorado Poet Laureate David Mason wrote what he calls a verse-novel, \"Ludlow\" (2007), that was inspired by this labor dispute. Composer Lori Laitman is composing an opera \"Ludlow\", in conjunction with Mason and based on his book. The University of Colorado's New Opera Works presented Act I of the opera in June 2012, directed by Beth Greenberg.\n\nOn April 19, 2013, Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper signed an executive order to create the Ludlow Centennial Commemoration Commission. The group worked to develop programming in the state, such as lectures and exhibits, to commemorate the Ludlow workers' struggle and raise awareness of the massacre. It worked with Colorado museums, historical societies, churches and art galleries, and supplied programming in 2014.\n\nIn 1996, the 1913–1914 Colorado Coalfield War Project began under the leadership of Randall H. McGuire of Binghamton University, Dean Saitta of University of Denver, and Philip Duke of Fort Lewis College, who later formed the Ludlow Collective. Their team conducted excavations of the territory of the former tent colony and surrounding areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14339058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14339058", "title": "Man-eater", "text": "Man-eater\n\nMan-eater is a colloquial term for an individual animal that preys on humans as a pattern of hunting behavior. This does not include the scavenging of corpses, a single attack born of opportunity or desperate hunger, or the incidental eating of a human that the animal has killed in self-defense. However, all three cases (especially the last two) may habituate an animal to eating human flesh or to attacking humans, and may foster the development of man-eating behavior.\n\nAlthough human beings can be attacked by many kinds of animals, man-eaters are those that have incorporated human flesh into their usual diet and actively hunt and kill humans. Most reported cases of man-eaters have involved lions, tigers, leopards, and crocodilians. However, they are by no means the only predators that will attack humans if given the chance; a wide variety of species have also been known to adopt humans as usual prey, including bears, Komodo dragons and hyenas.\n\nTigers are recorded to have killed more people than any other big cat, and tigers have been responsible for more human deaths through direct attack than any other wild mammal. About 1,000 people were reportedly killed each year in India during the early 1900s, with one individual tiger killing 430 people in India. Tigers killed 129 people in the Sundarbans mangrove forest from 1969 to 1971. Unlike leopards and lions, man-eating tigers rarely enter human habitations in order to acquire prey. The majority of victims are reportedly in the tiger's territory when the attack takes place. Additionally, tiger attacks mostly occur during daylight hours, unlike those committed by leopards and lions.\nThe Sundarbans is home to approximately 600 royal Bengal tigers who before modern times used to \"regularly kill fifty or sixty people a year\". In 2008, a loss of habitat due to the Cyclone Sidr led to an increase in the number of attacks on humans in the Indian side of the Sunderbans, as tigers were crossing over to the Indian side from Bangladesh.\n\nA theory promoted to explain this suggests that since tigers drink fresh water, the salinity of the area waters serve as a destabilizing factor in the diet and life of tigers of Sundarbans, keeping them in constant discomfort and making them extremely aggressive. Other theories include the sharing of their habitat with human beings and the consumption of human corpses during floods.\n\n\nMan-eating lions have been recorded to actively enter human villages at night as well as during the day to acquire prey. This greater assertiveness usually makes man-eating lions easier to dispatch than tigers. Lions typically become man-eaters for the same reasons as tigers: starvation, old age and illness, though as with tigers, some man-eaters were reportedly in perfect health.\n\nThe lion's proclivity for man-eating has been systematically examined. American and Tanzanian scientists report that man-eating behavior in rural areas of Tanzania increased greatly from 1990 to 2005. At least 563 villagers were attacked and many eaten over this period—a number far exceeding the more famed \"Tsavo\" incidents of a century earlier. The incidents occurred near Selous National Park in Rufiji District and in Lindi Province near the Mozambican border. While the expansion of villagers into bush country is one concern, the authors argue that conservation policy must mitigate the danger because, in this case, conservation contributes directly to human deaths. Cases in Lindi have been documented where lions seize humans from the centre of substantial villages. It is estimated that over 250 people are killed by lions every year.\n\nMan-eating lions studies indicate that African lions eat humans as a supplement to other food, not as a last resort.\nIn July 2018, a South African News website reported that 3 rhino poachers were mauled and eaten by lions at Sibuya Game Reserve in Eastern Cape province, South Africa. \n\n\nMan-eating leopards are a small percentage of all leopards, but have undeniably been a menace in some areas; one leopard in India killed over 200 people. Jim Corbett was noted to have stated that unlike tigers, which usually became man-eaters because of infirmity, leopards more commonly did so after scavenging on human corpses. In the area that Corbett knew well, dead people are usually cremated completely, but when there is a bad disease epidemic, the death rate outruns the supply of cremation pyre wood and people burn the body a little and throw it over the edge of the burning ghat. In Asia, man-eating leopards usually attack at night, and have been reported to break down doors and thatched roofs in order to reach human prey. Attacks in Africa are reported less often, though there have been occasions where attacks occurred in daylight. Both Corbett and Kenneth Anderson have written that hunting the man eating panther presented more challenges than any other animal.\n\n\nJaguar attacks on humans are rare nowadays. In the past, they were more frequent, at least after the arrival of Conquistadors in the Americas. The risk to humans would increase if there were fewer capybaras, which the jaguars mainly preyed on.\n\nDue to the expanding human population, cougar ranges increasingly overlap with areas inhabited by humans. Attacks on humans are very rare, as cougar prey recognition is a learned behavior and they do not generally recognize humans as prey. Attacks on people, livestock, and pets may occur when a puma habituates to humans or is in a condition of severe starvation. Attacks are most frequent during late spring and summer, when juvenile cougars leave their mothers and search for new territory. Unlike other big cat man-eaters, cougars do not kill humans as a result of old age or food preference, but in defense of their territory. Such behavior has been documented in hunts by humans, where the cougar is flushed out by dogs which it either outruns or mauls some distance away. Then, the cougar circles around and mauls the hunter in ambush attack. Cougars living close to human habitat will view the humans as passing livestock, and attack women and children on occasion.\n\nThe only documented man-eaters among the great apes are humans themselves and common chimpanzees, who prey on human infants.\n\nContrasted to other carnivorous mammals known to attack humans for food, the frequency with which wolves have been recorded to kill people is rather low, indicating that, though potentially dangerous, wolves are among the least threatening for their size and predatory potential, except for the dog which poses lethal hazards for reasons other than predation. In the rare cases in which man-eating wolf attacks occur, the majority of victims are children. Habituation is a known factor contributing to some man-eating wolf attacks which results from living close to human habitations, causing wolves to lose their fear of humans and consequently approach too closely, much like urban coyotes. Habituation can also happen when people intentionally encourage wolves to approach them, usually by offering them food, or unintentionally, when people do not sufficiently intimidate them. This is corroborated by accounts demonstrating that wolves in protected areas are more likely to show boldness toward humans than ones in areas where they are actively hunted.\n\n\nAttacks on humans by dingoes are rare, with only two recorded fatalities in Australia. Dingoes are normally shy of humans and avoid encounters with them. The most famous record of a dingo attack was the disappearance of nine-week-old Azaria Chamberlain. Her parents reported that they both saw a dingo taking Azaria out of their tent when she and her family were out on a camping trip to Uluru.\n\nMuch like other large land carnivores, domestic dogs have the power, strength, speed, agility, voraciousness, intelligence, cunning, and bite force of mammalian species generally understood as man-eaters. Add to this the sort of organization that one associates with lions, hyenas, and wolves, and even a pack of small dogs is potentially as lethal as a single large predator. Predatory attacks by dogs (like wolves) on livestock and wildlife larger than humans demonstrate the potential of a dog as a man-eater. A large dog or a pack of dogs of adequate number depending on size of the dogs has the capacity to kill a human even without predatory intent, and most fatal dog attacks do not result from hunger. Self-extrication from a dog attack is extremely difficult. Of the larger predatory land animals, the dog is arguably the least likely to kill humans as prey. Pet dogs are ordinarily too well fed to contemplate humans as food, and even strays are likely to find food through scavenging or begging.\n\nPredatory acts by dogs upon humans have occurred, and many such incidents were the result of human misconduct. Guards such as Irma Grese and Kurt Franz reportedly set dogs upon live prisoners in Nazi concentration camps with the dog killing the victim and partially devouring the corpse.\n\nAlthough there have been a number of them, almost all known predatory coyote attacks on humans have failed. To date, other than the Kelly Keen coyote attack and the Taylor Mitchell coyote attack, all known victims have survived by fighting, fleeing, or being rescued, and only in the latter case was the victim partially eaten, although that case occurred in Nova Scotia where the local animals are eastern coyotes (coywolves).\n\nPolar bears, being almost completely unused to the presence of humans and therefore having no ingrained fear of them, will hunt people for food, though with the right precautions they are easily deterred. Although bears rarely attack humans, bear attacks often cause devastating injuries due to the size and immense strength of the giant land and shoreline carnivores. As with dogs, predatory intent is not necessary; territorial disputes and protection of cubs can result in death by bear attack. Truly man-eating bear attacks are uncommon, but are known to occur when the animals are diseased or natural prey is scarce, often leading them to attack and eat anything they are able to kill. In July 2008, dozens of starving bears killed two geologists working at a salmon hatchery in Kamchatka. After the partially eaten remains of the two workers were discovered, authorities responded by dispatching hunters to cull or disperse the bears.\n\nLone, predatory black bears are responsible for most human attacks in the United States and Canada, according to a study from 2011. Unlike female bears, motivated to attack humans to protect cubs, male black bears actually prey on humans, viewing them as a potential food source.\n\nThough usually shy and cautious animals, Asian black bears are more aggressive toward humans than the brown bears of Eurasia. Brown bears seldom attack humans on sight, and usually avoid people. They are, however, unpredictable in temperament, and will attack if they are surprised or feel threatened. In some areas of India and Burma, sloth bears are more feared than tigers, due to their unpredictable temperament.\n\n\nAlthough hyenas readily feed upon human corpses, they are generally very wary of humans and less dangerous than the big cats whose territory overlaps with theirs. Nonetheless, both the spotted hyena and the smaller striped hyena are powerful predators quite capable of killing an adult human, and are known to attack people when food is scarce. Like most predators, hyena attacks tend to target women, children, and infirm men, though both species can and do attack healthy adult males on occasion. The spotted hyena is the more dangerous of the two species, being larger, more predatory, and more aggressive than the striped hyena. The brown hyena and aardwolf are not known to prey on humans.\n\nAlthough not true carnivores, pigs are competent predators and can kill and eat helpless humans unable to escape them. Numerous animal trials in the Middle Ages involved pigs accused of eating children.\n\nDespite small individual size, rats in large numbers can kill helpless people by eating humans alive. Although the bite of one rat is unlikely to kill a person except through disease, the collective damage of dozens of rats can cause death by shock and damage to vital organs. Although not true carnivores, rats are unfussy eaters and social predators should the opportunity arise.\n\nRat torture has been used upon political prisoners, and not only in such fiction as \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\nCrocodile attacks on people are common in places where crocodiles are native. The saltwater and Nile crocodiles are responsible for more attacks and more deaths than any other wild predator that attacks humans for food. Each year, hundreds of deadly attacks are attributed to the Nile crocodile within sub-Saharan Africa. Because many relatively healthy populations of Nile crocodiles occur in East Africa, their proximity to people living in poverty and/or without infrastructure has made it likely that the Nile crocodile is responsible for more attacks on humans than all other species combined. In Australia crocodiles have also been responsible for several deaths in the tropical north of the country. The Mugger crocodile is another man-eater that kills many people in Asia each year, although not to the same level as the Saltwater and Nile crocodiles. A lot of other crocodile species are also dangerous to humans, but most of the others will usually not actively try to hunt them.\n\n\nDespite their manifest ability to kill prey similar to or larger than humans in size and their commonness in an area of dense human settlement (the southeastern United States, especially Florida), American alligators rarely prey upon humans. Even so, there have been several notable instances of alligators opportunistically attacking humans, especially the careless, small children, and elderly. Unlike the far-more dangerous saltwater and Nile crocodiles, the majority of alligators avoid contact with humans if possible, especially if they have been hunted. Incidents have happened, and they may not all have been predatory in nature.\n\nOnly very few species of snakes are physically capable of swallowing an adult human. Although quite a few claims have been made about giant snakes swallowing adult humans, only a limited number have been confirmed. Large constricting snakes will sometimes constrict and kill prey that are too large to swallow. Also, multiple cases are documented of medium-sized ( to ) captive Burmese pythons constricting and killing humans, including several nonintoxicated, healthy adult men, one of whom was a \"student\" zookeeper. In the zookeeper case, the python was attempting to swallow the zookeeper's head when other keepers intervened. In addition, at least one Burmese python as small as constricted and killed an intoxicated adult man.\n\nA large constricting snake may constrict or swallow an infant or a small child, a threat that is legitimate and empirically proven. Cases of python attacks on children have been recorded for the green anaconda, the African rock python, the Burmese python, and possibly the Australian scrub or amethystine python.\n\nIn the Philippines, more than a quarter of Aeta men (a modern forest-dwelling hunter-gatherer group) have reported surviving reticulated python predation attempts. Pythons are nonvenomous, ambush predators, and both the Aeta and pythons hunt deer, wild pigs, and monkeys, making them competitors and prey.\n\nIn South Africa in 2002, a 10-year-old boy was swallowed whole by a 20-foot-long African Rock Python. (https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/southafrica/1414171/Hunt-for-giant-snake-that-ate-10-year-old-Durban-boy-whole.html)\n\nThe only group of snakes able to eat an adult human being are the largest constrictors (pythons and anacondas, all nonvenomous), which include the largest snakes in the world:\n\nIn 2017 in Indonesia, an adult was discovered inside of a 7 metre long python, and on June 14, 2018 a 54 year old women named Wa Tiba was eaten by a reticulated python, which had slithered into her garden at her home.\n\nLarge Komodo dragons are the only known lizard species to occasionally attack and consume humans. Because they live on remote islands, attacks are infrequent and may go unreported. Despite their large size, attacks on people are often unsuccessful and the victims manage to escape (although severe wounds are usually sustained). In most instances, humans consumed by Komodos are corpses dug from shallow graves by the lizards.\n\nSome evidence supports the contention that the African crowned eagle occasionally views human children as prey, with a witness account of one attack (in which the victim, a seven-year-old boy, survived and the eagle was killed), and the discovery of part of a human child skull in a nest. This would make it the only living bird known to prey on humans, although other birds such as ostriches and cassowaries have killed humans in self-defense and a lammergeier might have killed Aeschylus by accident. Various large raptors like golden eagles are reported attacking human beings, but its unclear if they intend to eat them or if they have ever been successful in killing one.\n\nSome fossil evidence indicates large birds of prey occasionally preyed on prehistoric hominids. The Taung Child, an early human found in Africa, is believed to have been killed by an eagle-like bird similar to the crowned eagle. The extinct Haast's eagle may have preyed on humans in New Zealand, and this conclusion would be consistent with Maori folklore. \"Leptoptilos robustus\" might have preyed on both \"Homo floresiensis\" and anatomically modern humans, and the Malagasy crowned eagle, teratorns, Woodward's eagle and \"Caracara major\" are similar in size to the Haast's eagle, implying that they similarly could pose a threat to a human being.\n\nContrary to popular belief, only a limited number of shark species are known to pose a serious threat to humans. The species that are most dangerous can be indiscriminate and will take any potential meal they happen to come across (as an oceanic whitetip might eat a person floating in the water after a shipwreck), or may bite out of curiosity or mistaken identity (as with a great white shark attacking a human on a surfboard possibly because it resembles its favoured prey, a seal).\n\nOf more than 568 shark species, only four have been involved in a significant number of fatal unprovoked attacks on humans: the great white shark, tiger shark, bull shark, and the oceanic whitetip shark. These sharks, being large, powerful predators, may sometimes attack and kill humans; it is worth noting that they have all been filmed in open water by unprotected divers. Many other species of shark have caused relatively minor, or nonfatal injuries to humans on rare occasions.\n\nDue to its small size, no individual piranha could ever kill a human even if it can take a painful bite of flesh. The ability of a shoal of piranhas to overwhelm and devour a capybara similar in size to human demonstrates the potential of piranhas as man-eaters.\n\nSome controversy, however, exists over whether and to what degree piranha \"attacks\" represent true predation as opposed to a violent defense of spawning areas or refuges.\n\nAttacks resulting in deaths have occurred in the Amazon basin. In 2011, a drunk 18-year-old man was attacked and killed in Rosario del Yata, Bolivia. In 2012, a five-year-old Brazilian girl was attacked and killed by a shoal of \"P. nattereri\". Some Brazilian rivers have warning signs about lethal piranhas.\n\nReports have been made of goonch catfish eating humans in the Kali River in India. As seen on \"River Monsters\", the wels catfish, piraíba, and the candiru-açu have also been known to potentially attack, kill, and eat people.\n\n\nIndividual notable man-eater death tolls. \n\n"}
{"id": "32000533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32000533", "title": "Marine microorganism", "text": "Marine microorganism\n\nMarine microorganisms are defined by their habitat as the microorganisms living in a marine environment, that is, in the saltwater of a sea or ocean or the brackish water of a coastal estuary. A microorganism (or microbe) is any microscopic living organism, that is, any life form too small for the naked human eye to see, needing a microscope. Microorganisms are very diverse. They can be single-celled or multicellular and include all bacteria and archaea and most protozoa, as well as some species of fungi, algae, and certain microscopic animals, such as rotifers. Many macroscopic animals and plants have microscopic juvenile stages. Some microbiologists also classify viruses (and viroids) as microorganisms, but others consider these as nonliving. In July 2016, scientists reported identifying a set of 355 genes from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) of all life, including microorganisms, living on Earth.\n\nMarine microorganisms constitute more than 90% of the biomass in the sea. They are crucial to nutrient recycling in ecosystems as they act as decomposers. A small proportion of microorganisms are pathogenic, causing disease and even death in plants and animals. As inhabitants of the largest environment on Earth, microbial marine systems drive changes in every global system. Microbes are responsible for virtually all the photosynthesis that occurs in the ocean, as well as the cycling of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus and other nutrients and trace elements.\n\nDespite its diversity, microscopic life in the oceans is still poorly understood. For example, the role of viruses in marine ecosystems has barely been explored even in the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nThe microorganism in the oceans include viruses, prokaryotes (Bacteria and Archaea), and protists. Bacteria and viruses are the most abundant, with a teaspoon (~5 mL) of seawater containing between about 1 million to 5 million bacteria, and 5 and 50 million viruses., Most of the viruses are bacteriophages, which are harmless to plants and animals, and are in fact essential to the regulation of saltwater and freshwater ecosystems. They infect and destroy bacteria in aquatic microbial communities, and are an important mechanism of recycling carbon and nutrient cycling in the marine environment, a process referred to the viral shunt. The organic molecules released from the dead bacterial cells stimulate fresh bacterial and algal growth. Viral activity may also contribute to the biological pump, the process whereby carbon is sequestered in the deep ocean.\n\nMarine bacteriophages are viruses that live as obligate parasitic agents in marine bacteria such as cyanobacteria. Their existence was discovered through electron microscopy and epifluorescence microscopy of ecological water samples, and later through metagenomic sampling of uncultured viral samples. The tailed bacteriophages appear to dominate marine ecosystems in number and diversity of organisms. However, viruses belonging to families Corticoviridae, Inoviridae and Microviridae are also known to infect diverse marine bacteria. Metagenomic evidence suggests that microviruses (icosahedral ssDNA phages) are particularly prevalent in marine habitats.\n\nBacteriophages, viruses that are parasitic on bacteria, were first discovered in the early twentieth century. Scientists today consider that their importance in ecosystems, particularly marine ecosystems, has been underestimated, leading to these infectious agents being poorly investigated and their numbers and species biodiversity being greatly under reported.\n\nMicroscopic organisms live in every part of the biosphere. The mass of prokaryote microorganisms — which includes bacteria and archaea, but not the nucleated eukaryote microorganisms — may be as much as 0.8 trillion tons of carbon (of the total biosphere mass, estimated at between 1 and 4 trillion tons). Barophilic marine microbes have been found at more than a depth of in the Mariana Trench, the deepest spot in the Earth's oceans. In fact, single-celled life forms have been found in the deepest part of the Mariana Trench, by the Challenger Deep, at depths of . Other researchers reported related studies that microorganisms thrive inside rocks up to below the sea floor under of ocean off the coast of the northwestern United States, as well as beneath the seabed off Japan. The greatest known temperature at which microbial life can exist is (\"Methanopyrus kandleri\"). On 20 August 2014, scientists confirmed the existence of microorganisms living below the ice of Antarctica. According to one researcher, \"You can find microbes everywhere — they're extremely adaptable to conditions, and survive wherever they are.\"\n\nScientists have conjectured a stream of airborne microorganisms circles the planet above weather systems but below commercial air lanes. Some of these peripatetic microorganisms are swept up from terrestrial dust storms, but most originate from marine microorganisms in sea spray. In 2018 a team of scientists reported that hundreds of millions of viruses and tens of millions of bacteria are deposited daily on every square meter around the planet.\n\nA virus is a small infectious agent that replicates only inside the living cells of other organisms. Viruses can infect all types of life forms, from animals and plants to microorganisms, including bacteria and archaea.\n\nWhen not inside an infected cell or in the process of infecting a cell, viruses exist in the form of independent particles. These viral particles, also known as \"virions\", consist of two or three parts: (i) the genetic material made from either DNA or RNA, long molecules that carry genetic information; (ii) a protein coat, called the capsid, which surrounds and protects the genetic material; and in some cases (iii) an envelope of lipids that surrounds the protein coat when they are outside a cell. The shapes of these virus particles range from simple helical and icosahedral forms for some virus species to more complex structures for others. Most virus species have virions that are too small to be seen with an optical microscope. The average virion is about one one-hundredth the size of the average bacterium.\n\nThe origins of viruses in the evolutionary history of life are unclear: some may have evolved from plasmids—pieces of DNA that can move between cells—while others may have evolved from bacteria. In evolution, viruses are an important means of horizontal gene transfer, which increases genetic diversity. Viruses are considered by some to be a life form, because they carry genetic material, reproduce, and evolve through natural selection. However, they lack key characteristics (such as cell structure) that are generally considered necessary to count as life. Because they possess some but not all such qualities, viruses have been described as \"organisms at the edge of life\" and as replicators.\n\nViruses are found wherever there is life and have probably existed since living cells first evolved. The origin of viruses is unclear because they do not form fossils, so molecular techniques have been used to compare the DNA or RNA of viruses and are a useful means of investigating how they arose.\n\nViruses are now recognised as ancient and as having origins that pre-date the divergence of life into the three domains.\n\nOpinions differ on whether viruses are a form of life, or organic structures that interact with living organisms. They have been described as \"organisms at the edge of life\", since they resemble organisms in that they possess genes, evolve by natural selection, and reproduce by creating multiple copies of themselves through self-assembly. Although they have genes, they do not have a cellular structure, which is often seen as the basic unit of life. Viruses do not have their own metabolism, and require a host cell to make new products. They therefore cannot naturally reproduce outside a host cell.\n\nViruses infecting bacteria, called bacteriophages, are a common and diverse group of viruses and are thought to be the most abundant form of biological entity in aquatic environments, because their hosts, bacteria, are typically the numerically dominant cellular life in the sea;– generally, there are about 1 million to 10 million viruses in each mL of seawater, or about ten times more double-stranded DNA viruses than there are cellular organisms, although estimates of viral abundance in seawater can vary over a wide range.\n\nThere are also archaean viruses, which replicate within archaea: these are double-stranded DNA viruses with unusual and sometimes unique shapes. These viruses have been studied in most detail in the thermophilic archaea, particularly the orders Sulfolobales and Thermoproteales.\n\nMicroorganisms constitute more than 90% of the biomass in the sea. It is estimated that viruses kill approximately 20% of this biomass each day; consequently, viruses are one of the most important mechanisms of recycling carbon and nutrient cycling in the marine environment. This can have consequent effects for the biological pump, the process whereby carbon is sequestered into the deep ocean. Viruses can also be a primary factor in the rapid destruction of algal blooms; such blooms can be detrimental to other marine life.. The number of viruses in the oceans decreases further offshore and deeper into the water, where there are fewer host organisms.\n\nViruses are an important natural means of transferring genes between different species, which increases genetic diversity and drives evolution. It is thought that viruses played a central role in the early evolution, before the diversification of bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes, at the time of the last universal common ancestor of life on Earth. Viruses are still one of the largest reservoirs of unexplored genetic diversity on Earth.\n\nBacteria constitute a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms. Typically a few micrometres in length, bacteria have a number of shapes, ranging from spheres to rods and spirals. Bacteria were among the first life forms to appear on Earth, and are present in most of its habitats. Bacteria inhabit soil, water, acidic hot springs, radioactive waste, and the deep portions of Earth's crust. Bacteria also live in symbiotic and parasitic relationships with plants and animals.\n\nOnce regarded as plants constituting the class \"Schizomycetes\", bacteria are now classified as prokaryotes. Unlike cells of animals and other eukaryotes, bacterial cells do not contain a nucleus and rarely harbour membrane-bound organelles. Although the term \"bacteria\" traditionally included all prokaryotes, the scientific classification changed after the discovery in the 1990s that prokaryotes consist of two very different groups of organisms that evolved from an ancient common ancestor. These evolutionary domains are called \"Bacteria\" and \"Archaea\".\n\nThe ancestors of modern bacteria were unicellular microorganisms that were the first forms of life to appear on Earth, about 4 billion years ago. For about 3 billion years, most organisms were microscopic, and bacteria and archaea were the dominant forms of life. Although bacterial fossils exist, such as stromatolites, their lack of distinctive morphology prevents them from being used to examine the history of bacterial evolution, or to date the time of origin of a particular bacterial species. However, gene sequences can be used to reconstruct the bacterial phylogeny, and these studies indicate that bacteria diverged first from the archaeal/eukaryotic lineage. \nBacteria were also involved in the second great evolutionary divergence, that of the archaea and eukaryotes. Here, eukaryotes resulted from the entering of ancient bacteria into endosymbiotic associations with the ancestors of eukaryotic cells, which were themselves possibly related to the Archaea. This involved the engulfment by proto-eukaryotic cells of alphaproteobacterial symbionts to form either mitochondria or hydrogenosomes, which are still found in all known Eukarya. Later on, some eukaryotes that already contained mitochondria also engulfed cyanobacterial-like organisms. This led to the formation of chloroplasts in algae and plants. There are also some algae that originated from even later endosymbiotic events. Here, eukaryotes engulfed a eukaryotic algae that developed into a \"second-generation\" plastid. This is known as secondary endosymbiosis.\n\nThe largest known bacterium, the marine \"Thiomargarita namibiensis\", can be visible to the naked eye and sometimes attains .\n\nThe archaea (Greek for \"ancient\" ) constitute a domain and kingdom of single-celled microorganisms. These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells.\n\nArchaea were initially classified as bacteria, but this classification is outdated. Archaeal cells have unique properties separating them from the other two domains of life, Bacteria and Eukaryota. The Archaea are further divided into multiple recognized phyla. Classification is difficult because the majority have not been isolated in the laboratory and have only been detected by analysis of their nucleic acids in samples from their environment.\n\nArchaea and bacteria are generally similar in size and shape, although a few archaea have very strange shapes, such as the flat and square-shaped cells of \"Haloquadratum walsbyi\". Despite this morphological similarity to bacteria, archaea possess genes and several metabolic pathways that are more closely related to those of eukaryotes, notably the enzymes involved in transcription and translation. Other aspects of archaeal biochemistry are unique, such as their reliance on ether lipids in their cell membranes, such as archaeols. Archaea use more energy sources than eukaryotes: these range from organic compounds, such as sugars, to ammonia, metal ions or even hydrogen gas. Salt-tolerant archaea (the Haloarchaea) use sunlight as an energy source, and other species of archaea fix carbon; however, unlike plants and cyanobacteria, no known species of archaea does both. Archaea reproduce asexually by binary fission, fragmentation, or budding; unlike bacteria and eukaryotes, no known species forms spores. Unlike viruses and bacteria, no known archaea is a pathogen.\n\nArchaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.\n\nAlgae can grow as single cells, or in long chains of cells. Green algae are a large group of photosynthetic eukaryotes that include many microscopic organisms. Green algae include unicellular and colonial flagellates as well as various colonial, coccoid, and filamentous forms. There are about 6000 species.\n\nOver 1500 species of fungi are known from marine environments. These are parasitic on marine algae or animals, or are saprobes on algae, corals, protozoan cysts, sea grasses, wood and other substrata, and can also be found in sea foam. Spores of many species have special appendages that facilitate attachment to the substratum. A very diverse range of unusual secondary metabolites is produced by marine fungi. Marine yeasts are also found, even in deep-sea environments.\n\nMycoplankton are saprotropic members of the plankton communities of marine and freshwater ecosystems. They are composed of filamentous free-living fungi and yeasts that are associated with planktonic particles or phytoplankton. Similar to bacterioplankton, these aquatic fungi play a significant role in heterotrophic mineralization and nutrient cycling. Mycoplankton can be up to 20 mm in diameter and over 50 mm in length.\n\nIn a typical milliliter of seawater, there are approximately 10 to 10 fungal cells. This number is greater in coastal ecosystems and estuaries due to nutritional runoff from terrestrial communities. The greatest diversity and number of species of mycoplankton is found in surface waters (< 1000 m), and the vertical profile depends on the abundance of phytoplankton. Furthermore, this difference in distribution may vary between seasons due to nutrient availability. Marine fungi survive in a constant oxygen deficient environment, and therefore depend on oxygen diffusion by turbulence and oxygen generated by photosynthetic organisms.\n\nMarine fungi can be classified as:\n\nMost mycoplankton species are higher fungi.\n\nLichens are mutualistic associations between a fungus, usually an ascomycete, and an alga or a cyanobacterium. Several lichens are found in marine environments. Many more occur in the splash zone, where they occupy different vertical zones depending on how tolerant they are to submersion. Fossil marine lichens 600 million years old have been discovered in the late Neoproterozoic marine phosphate rocks in the sedimentary, fossil-rich Doushantuo Formation in China.\n\nAccording to fossil records, fungi date back to the late Proterozoic era 900-570 million years ago. It has been hypothesized that mycoplankton evolved from terrestrial fungi, likely in the Paleozoic era (390 million years ago).\n\nOf eukaryotic groups, the protists are most commonly unicellular and microscopic. This is a highly diverse group of organisms that are not easy to classify. Several algae species are multicellular protists, and there are marine slime molds have unique life cycles that involve switching between unicellular, colonial, and multicellular forms. The number of species of protists is unknown, and we may have identified only a small portion. Studies from 2001-2004 have shown that a high degree of protist diversity exists in oceans, deep sea-vents, river sediment and an acidic river, which suggests that a large number of eukaryotic microbial communities have yet to be discovered.\n\nAt least one microscopic animal group, the parasitic cnidarian Myxozoa, is unicellular in its adult form, and includes marine species. Other marine microanimals are multicellular. Microscopic arthropods are more commonly found inland in freshwater, but there are marine species as well. Microscopic marine crustaceans include some copepods, cladocera and water bears. Some marine nematodes and rotifers are also too small to be seen with the naked eye, as are many loricifera, including the recently discovered anaerobic species that spend their lives in an anoxic environment. Copepods contribute more to the secondary productivity and carbon sink of the world oceans than any other group of organisms.\n\n"}
{"id": "10091322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091322", "title": "Miraculous births", "text": "Miraculous births\n\nStories of miraculous births often include conceptions by miraculous circumstances and features such as intervention by a deity, supernatural elements, astronomical signs, hardship or, in the case of some mythologies, complex plots related to creation.\n\nThe Assyrian and Babylonian concept of origins expressed procreation first in “relationships between gods and goddesses resulting in other gods and goddesses,\" such as Ea and Damkina assisted by Apsu giving birth to Marduk. The Akkadian \"Enûma Eliš\" describes the birth of Marduk as follows: \"Ea, having overheard the plan of the primordial deities to destroy the other gods, deceived Apsu and Mummu and put them to death. 'Ea, his triumph over his enemies secured, in his sacred chamber in profound peace he rested.' (ANET, p. 61, lines 74—75.) Then he took over the place which Apsu had used for his cult and dwelt there with his spouse, Damkina.\" It was here that Marduk, the \"most potent and wisest of gods\" was created in the heart of Apsu and \"He who begot him was Ea, his father, she who conceived him was Damkina, his mother\".\n\nAccording to Norman Lockyer, Ea, Ia, or Oannes was the primal god of Babylon. He was a ‘Great God, Maker of Men, Potter, Artist and Workman.’ He formed a Triad with Anu and Bil—the two poles of heaven and the equator. Oannes first appeared from the sea to teach the Babylonians the art of writing, sciences and crafts, the building of cities, the surveying of land, the observation of the stars, and the sowing and harvesting of all kinds of grains and plants. He was believed to have been \"reincarnated\" several times. Berossos, priest of the Temple of Bel, in Babylon, knew of as many as six such reincarnations.\n\nIn addition, “procreative deities, either male or female, played a part in the birth of other deities or great personages, such as the Ugaritic tradition of Lady Asherah, ‘the Progenitress of the gods’; Mami, 'the Mother-womb, the one who creates mankind'; Father Nanna, the 'begetter of gods and men'; the Assyrian traditions that Tukulti-Urta was created by the gods in the womb of his mother and that Sennacherib's birth was assisted by Ea, who provided a 'spacious womb', and Assur, 'the god, my begetter'; and the North Arabian myth of the mother goddess who was responsible for Dusares.\"\n\nIn Hittite mythology, the god Anu was overthrown by his son Kumarbi; Anu attempted to flee, but Kumarbi bit off Anu's genitals and swallowed them, and banished him to the underworld. As a consequence of swallowing Anu's genitals, Kumarbi became impregnated with Anu's son Teshub and four other offspring. Teshub overthrew his father Kumarbi, thus avenging his other father Anu's overthrow and mutilation. This account later became the basis for the Greek story of Uranus's castration by his son Cronus, resulting in the birth of Aphrodite, described in Hesiod's \"Theogony\".\n\nThe belief in the conception of Horus by Isis is traced to the beginning of Egyptian history. Horus' conception and birth were understood in terms of the Egyptian doctrine of parthenogenesis, which was connected with the goddess Neith of Sais. (page 220) In Upper Egypt, Net was worshipped at Seni and represented with the head of a lioness painted green, with the titles: \"Father of fathers and Mother of mothers,\" and \"net-Menhit, the great lady, lady of the south, the great cow who gave birth to the sun, who made the germ of gods and men, the mother of Ra, who raised up Tem in primeval time, who existed when nothing else had being, and who created that which exists after she had come into being.\"(page 150)\n\nThere were at least fifteen other Horuses in the Egyptian pantheon, so in the story of Isis and Osiris Horus is \"sometimes known as Harsiesis, to distinguish him from the others. He is depicted as a falcon, or with a falcon's head. He eventually avenged Osiris' death and reclaimed the throne, ruling peacefully...Herakhty, or 'Horus of the Horizon', was a sun god who rose each morning on the eastern horizon. He was often identified with the sun god, Ra, and was eventually absorbed by him, forming Ra-Herakhty.\"\n\nLineal descent from Ra, whether by birth or by marriage, was claimed by all kings of Egypt at least since User-ka-f, first king of the V Dynasty, who was high priest of Ra at Heliopolis. An important part of this tradition was the legend of the God Re generating with the wife of a priest. \"The newborn child was regarded as a god incarnate, and later with appropriate ceremonies he was presented to Re or Amen-Re, in his temple, where the god accepted it and acknowledged it to be his child.\" This tradition was later inscribed in a stereotyped form in temple reliefs.\n\nMany texts mention different attributes of Isis. These were combined into a single narrative by Plutarch in the 1st century AD. In her aspect of protector of Egypt and its people, Isis is depicted with huge outspread wings. She taught women to grind corn, to spin and to weave, and she taught the people how to cure illnesses. She instituted the rite of marriage. When her consort, Osiris, left Egypt to travel the world, Isis ruled the country in his absence. \"The hieroglyph for her name is the image of a throne, and her lap came to be seen as the throne of Egypt. Because of her fame Isis eventually absorbed the qualities of almost all the other goddesses; \"she was a great mother goddess, a bird goddess, a goddess of the underworld who brought life to the dead, and a goddess of the primeval waters...Her following spread beyond Egypt to Greece and throughout the Roman Empire...(lasting) from before 3000 BC until well into Christian times.\n\nThere is a myth on the birth of Hatshepsut. In this myth, Amun goes to Queen Ahmose in the form of the Pharaoh Thutmose I and awakens her with pleasant odors. At this point Amun places the \"ankh\", a symbol of life, to Ahmose's nose, and Hatshepsut is conceived by Ahmose. Another myth on divine birth concerns Amenhotep III: he is conceived by Amun which has gone to queen Mutemwiya in form of Thutmosis IV.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, and in later Jewish tradition there are stories of matriarchs giving birth where the God of Israel miraculously intervenes. For example, within the Rabbinic literature expansions were made on the birth of the matriarch Sarah on the earlier Old Testament traditions.\n\nDue to her old age, Sarai was infertile, but a miracle was vouchsafed to her (Genesis Rabbah xlvii. 3) after her name was changed from \"Sarai\" to \"Sarah\" (R. H. 16b). When her youth had been restored and she had given birth to Isaac the people would not believe in the miracle, saying that the patriarch and his wife had adopted a foundling and pretended that it was their own son. Abraham thereupon invited all the notables to a banquet on the day when Isaac was to be weaned. Sarah invited the women, who brought their infants with them, and on this occasion she gave milk from her breasts to all the children, thus convincing the guests of the miracle (B. M. 87a; comp. Gen. R. liii. 13).\n\nAccording to , around 735 BC King Ahaz of Judah received a message from the prophet Isaiah during the Syro-Ephraimite War with Aram (Syria) and Israel, \"Therefore, the Lord, of His own, shall give you a sign; behold, the young woman is with child, and she shall bear a son, and she shall call his name Immanuel.\" This is generally taken by Judaic commentators to be a reference to the non-miraculous birth of Hezekiah or another contemporary child, as indicated in Isaiah's following indication of the timing.\n\nThe Greek Septuagint and some later Christian translations, following the application of Isaiah 7 in Matthew 1, use the word \"virgin\". The Hebrew word \"alma\" actually translates as a young woman of childbearing age who had not yet given birth and who might or might not be a virgin, whereas the Hebrew \"betulah\", used elsewhere in Isaiah, is the word that means \"virgin.\" If the reference is to Ahaz's betrothed, Abi, daughter of the High Priest, no miraculous birth is implied, merely chastity. The Christian world believes that the verse is a messianic prediction of the miraculous birth of Jesus, as described in various gospels of the New Testament of the Bible.\n\nThe Second Book of Enoch contains a section, called \"Exaltation of Melchizedek\", which says that Melchizedek was born of a virgin, Sofonim (or Sopanima), the wife of Nir, a brother of Noah. The child came out from his mother after she had died and sat on the bed beside her corpse, already physically developed, clothed, speaking and blessing the Lord, and marked with the badge of priesthood. Forty days later, Melchizedek was taken by the archangel Gabriel (Michael in some manuscripts) to the Garden of Eden and was thus preserved from the Deluge without having to be in Noah's Ark.\n\nZoroaster’s name has been adopted from the Greek and Latin Zoroastres. The ancient form of his name in the Avesta is Zarathustra. His native country was probably Media in Western Iran, (possibly in modern Azerbaijan), but his ministry took place in eastern Iran, especially in the region of Bactria, about 1200 BC. Zoroaster was originally a Magian priest, and under the reforms he instituted, Mithra became one of the Yazatas (Worshipful Ones), the angels or lesser divine beings.\n\n\"It was said that (Zoroaster's) birth was foretold from the beginning of time, and that the moment he was born, he burst out laughing and the whole universe rejoiced with him.\" After his birth evil demons tried to destroy him, but with Ahura Mazda's protection, he survived all attempts on his life. The Zoroastrian tradition differs from the Christian one because the divine only assists in the preservation of Zoroaster’s seed. \"The central scripture, the Avesta and also the Pahlavi texts include the tradition that the 'kingly glory' is handed onward from ruler to ruler and from saint to saint for the purpose of illuminating ultimately the soul of the Zarathushtra.\" Also the scriptures clearly allude to conjugal relations between his parents, during which evil spirits try to prevent his conception. But according to later tradition, Zoroaster's mother, Dughdova, was a virgin when she conceived Zoroaster by a shaft of light.\n\nGreco-Roman and Hellenistic literature is rich in the tradition of birth among the gods. In his poem \"Theogony\", the Greek poet Hesiod tells a story that Zeus had once lain with the goddess Metis, impregnating her, but, fearing that she might bear a child mightier than he himself, he swallowed her. Their daughter Athena was born fully grown from Zeus's forehead, fully armed and clad in armor. Hesiod also relates that the goddess Aphrodite was born from the foam of the sea after Ouranos's castrated testicles were thrown into it.\n\nHelios was a child of Zeus by Euryphaessa. He was also called \"the son of Earth and starry Heaven,\" and the son of Hyperion. Dionysus was dithyrambus, \"he who entered life by a double door.\" His first birth took place prematurely. His mother, Semele, died when Zeus appeared to her in a flash of lightning, and so Zeus opened his own flesh and enclosed the infant. In time, Dionysus was born \"perfect\" from Zeus' thigh. Dionysus Zagreus was important in Orphic theology. In Protrepticus ii. 14 ff. by Clement of Alexandria, this child had the form of a bull. Zeus intended to make him the ruler of the universe but the jealous Titans lured the child away, tore him to pieces, cooked him and ate him. Athena preserved his heart, however, which Zeus swallowed. According to Boslooper, Clement omitted one part of the myth that forms a connection between his account and the Theban legend of Dionysus. Because Zeus swallowed the heart of Dionysus Zagreus, when Semele bore Dionysus the new god was Zagreus reborn.\n\nIn Indian mythology, Mithra is known as Mitra. He was originally a god of contracts and friendship and was a forerunner of the Graeco-Roman god Mithras. In Iran, he developed into the protector of truth. Before the time of Zoroaster, he was associated with Ahura Mazda, the principle of good. As a consequence of Zoroaster's reforms to Iranian religion, Mithra was ousted from power and Ahura Mazda became supreme. In the more ancient Indian Vedas Mithra was the god of light, invoked under the name of Varuna, and was called \"the Light of the World.\" He was the mediator between heaven and Earth.\n\n\"The light bursting from the heavens, which were conceived as a solid vault, became, in the mythology of the Magi, Mithra born from the rock.\"\n\nMithraism absorbed astrology from the Chaldeans after the Chaldean conquest, and continued as an astronomical religion. In the Hellenistic period it took on its final form. Mithra was assimilated into Graeco-Roman beliefs in the 1st century BC as Mithras. He was an ancient and highly honored god of Roman Paganism, where he was worshipped for more than 300 years as \"the soldier's god.\"\n\nThe love of a god for a mortal, resulting in the birth of a hero, is one notable deviation from the tradition of the origin of gods. The legend of Perseus, whose mother conceived him when Jupiter came to her in the form of a golden shower, is one example of this type (cf. Ovid, Metamorphoses, Book IV). The \"Greek Anthology\" has the following: Zeus, turned to gold, piercing the brazen chamber of Danae, cut the knot of intact virginity.\n\nHeroes created by generation of a god with a mortal include Ion by Apollo and Creusa, Romulus by Mars and Aemila, Asclepius by Apollo and Coronis, and Helen by Zeus and Leda. Plutarch records how Theseus and Romulus were both born out of wedlock and of uncertain parentage and at the same time had the reputation of being sprung from the gods. He said that Theseus' grandfather Pittheus invented the story that Theseus was the child of Neptune to conceal Theseus' lineage as the son of Pittheus' daughter Aethra and Aegeus (\"Lives\", Vol. 1, p. 2; pp. 3 ff.). But there were other stories about the birth of Romulus and his brother Remus. The story of Romulus' divine origin says that his mother was the mortal daughter of Aeneas and Lavinia, and his father was Mars.\n\nIn his \"Hymn to Asclepius\", Homer attributes his origin to the god Apollo and the daughter of a renowned soldier, King Phlegyas. As the divine patron of the healing art, Asclepius became the most popular of the hero gods of Greece. The belief that religion was concerned with sickness and disease was central to his cult. His sanctuaries in the Greco-Roman world became so famous there was a movement to make him a god of the first rank and identify him with Zeus himself. Asclepius was \"the one who leads and controls all things, the savior of the whole world, and the guardian of mortals.\"\n\nHelen of Troy was worshiped as a heroine in several parts of the ancient world during the early historical epoch. Euripides' play \"Helen\" depends on a tradition begun in the early 6th century B.C. by the Greek poet Stesichorus that Helen was the daughter of Zeus (who took the form of a swan) and Leda. But this might simply be a poetic way of saying that she was hatched from an egg.\n\nThere are two versions of the birth of Oedipus. He was given a semidivine status in Sophocles' \"Oedipus the King,\" where he was said to be the son of either Pan, Loxias, \"or the Bacchants' god, dweller on the hilltops ...\" and one of the nymphs of Helicon. But in Euripides' \"Phoenissae,\" his mother, Jocasta, says Oedupus is the son of Laius, a mortal, who was warned by the god Phoebus not to have children.\n\n\"King of Thebes for horses famed! seek not to beget children against the will of heaven; for if thou beget a son, that child will slay thee, and all thy house shall wade in blood.\"\n\nLaius ignored the warning, but after the child was born he gave him to shepherds to expose on Mount Cithaeron. The child was found and raised among the keepers of the horses of Polybus. As a grown man, Oedipus did indeed kill his father, not realizing who he was, and then married his mother. When he discovered the truth he blinded himself. In this story, he is clearly considered to be the son of Laius and Jocasta. This is also obvious in Sophocles' \"Oedipus the King\". According to Boslooper, \"The two passages indicate that in the Greek mind the thoughts of divine and human paternal participation in conception were not mutually exclusive.\" (p. 178)\n\nRomulus and Remus, the legendary twin founders of the city of Rome, were said to have been born to a Vestal Virgin, Rhea Silvia. Rhea Silvia had been forced to become a Vestal Virgin against her will and claimed to have been impregnated through divine intervention. Livy attests that she was instead raped by an unknown man. In any case King Amulius ordered the twins to be drowned as death through the elements would not trigger divine punishment.\n\nAlexander, the Ptolemies, and the Caesars were said by some scholars to have been \"virgin-born.\" Alexander the Great, \" journeyed to the Oasis of Amon in order that he might be recognized as the god’s son and thus become a legitimate and recognized king of Egypt. Inscriptions show that he and the Ptolemies after him had the incidents of their birth regularly depicted in temple reliefs.” (As cited by Boslooper) Norden calls this the Hellenistic virgin motif. However, evidence shows that Alexander must have had a double tradition of origin. It is recorded that \"Alexander the Great and Augustus are deemed to have been conceived of a serpent god, and they claimed between them Phoebus and Jupiter as their progenitors.\"\n\n“The Emperor Augustus was praised as the Savior of the world …[but] the idea of Savior was not unique or original with Augustus himself. Before him the same title was given to Seleucid and other Hellenistic kings. Throughout this period there were frequent longings for a savior from the present troubles.” Augustus was said to have had a miraculous birth and a childhood filled with many portents and signs. A few months before he was born a portent was observed at Rome which gave warning that nature was pregnant with a king for the Roman People. \"Thereupon the Senate in consternation decreed that no male child born that year should be reared; but those whose wives were with child saw to it that the decree was not filed in the treasury, since each one appropriated the prediction to his own family.\" Boslooper relates several additional stories. In one, Suetonius narrates what he learned from Asclepias of Mendes:\n\n\"When Atia had come in the middle of the night to the solemn service of Apollo, she had her litter set down in the temple and fell asleep, while the rest of the matrons also slept. On a sudden a serpent glided up to her and shortly went away. When she awoke, she purified herself, as if after the embraces of her husband, and at once there appeared on her body a mark in colors like a serpent, and she could never get rid of it; so that presently she ceased ever to go to the public baths. In the tenth month after that Augustus was born and was therefore regarded as the son of Apollo. Atia too, before she gave him birth, dreamed that her vitals were borne up to the stars and spread over the whole extent of land and sea, while Octavius dreamed that the sun rose from Atia's womb.\" (p. 180)The hope for a savior was expressed in Virgil’s “Fourth Eclogue\". The Church fathers later claimed this was a reference to Jesus Christ, however, the poem was dedicated to Pollio, one of the great influential men at the time of the civil wars and Virgil's patron and friend. The hero of the poem is a child born or to be born in 40 B.C., at the time of Pollio's consulate. A new era was expected, in fulfillment of an older oracle.\"... Now the last age by Cumae's Sibyl sung\n\nHas come and gone, and the majestic roll\n\nOf circling centuries begins anew:\n\nJustice returns, returns old Saturn's reign,\n\nWith a new breed of men sent down from heaven.\n\nOnly do thou, at the boy's birth in whom\n\nThe iron shall cease, the golden race arise,\n\nBefriend him, chaste Lucina; 'tis thine own\n\nApollo reigns ...\n\n\"For thee, O boy,\n\nFirst shall the earth, untilled, pour freely forth\n\nHer childish gifts, the gadding ivy-spray\n\nWith foxglove and Egyptian bean-flower mixed,\n\nAnd laughing-eyed acanthus. Of themselves,\n\nUntended, will the she-goats then bring home\n\nTheir udders swollen with milk, while flocks afield\n\nShall of the monstrous lion have no fear...\"\n\nIn the story of Krishna the deity is the agent of conception and also the offspring. Because of his sympathy for the earth, the divine Vishnu himself descended into the womb of Devaki and was born as her son, Krishna. The Hindu Vishnu Purana relates: \"Devaki bore in her womb the lotus-eyed deity...before the birth of Krishna, no one “could bear to gaze upon Devaki, from the light that invested her, and those who contemplated her radiance felt their minds disturbed.” This reference to light is reminiscent of the Vedic hymn \"To an Unknown God,\" which refers to a Golden Child. According to F. M. Müller this term means \"the golden germ of child\" and is an attempt at naming the sun.\n\nThis is occasionally brought up as evidence for the hypothesis that \"virgin birth\" tales are a fairly common phenomenon in non-Christian religions around the world. However, there is nothing in Hindu scriptures to suggest that it was a \"virgin\" birth. By the time of conception and birth of Krishna, Devaki was married to Vasudeva and had already borne seven children.\n\nIn the \"Ramayana\", Vishnu incarnates himself as a man, Rama, in the womb of Kausalya, one of the wives of the king Dasharatha. In the \"Mahabharata\" epic, Surya, the god of the sun, impregnates Queen Kunti before her marriage to King Pandu, causing her to give birth to their son Karna. Surya restores her virginity afterwards, thereby allowing her to marry Pandu, despite having already given birth. Also in the \"Mahabharata\", Bharadwaja řshi goes with his companions to the Ganga River to perform his ablutions. There, he spots a beautiful apsara named Ghritachi, who has come to bathe. The sage is overcome by desire, causing him to involuntarily ejaculate out of excitement. Bharadwaja Muni captures the semen in a vessel called a Đroņa, and Đroņācharya himself springs forth from it.\n\nHowever, some Hindus believe that when the emanations of the Supreme Being are pratyaksha, or obvious to the sight, they become sacara, or embodied. Krishna was such an embodiment and usually bore a human form. In that mode of appearance the deities are generally supposed to be born of a woman, but without any carnal intercourse. This belief is not adhered to by those who follow the Purva Mimansa, or the philosophy of Jaimini. They insist that the Devas were mere mortals whom the Supreme Being endowed with qualities similar to his own. In general, the Hindus perform acts of worship to some of their ancient monarchs and sages, who were deified on account of their eminent virtues.\n\nThe stories of Buddha’s unusual birth developed through the centuries. Two accounts cited by Boslooper tell of the descent of the future Bodhisattva from the \"Tusita Body\" into the mother’s womb, the appearance of the Buddha in the mother as a shining gem, and the accompanying wonders in the natural world. These are the Majjhima-Nikāya, 123 Acchariyabbhutadhammasuta III. 119-124; (I. B. Horner, 1959, pp. 164–169); and Māhapadānasutta, Dīgha ii. 12. In the Mahapadana-sutra, Digha ii. 12, is the description of the incarnation of the Vipassī Buddha.\n\n\"Now Vipassi, brethren, when, as Bodhisat, he ceased to belong to the hosts of the heaven of Delight, descended into his mother’s womb mindful and self-possessed.\"\n\nAccording to this text, the Vipassī Buddha was the first of six incarnations to precede Gautama. The others listed are Sikhī, Vessabhū, Kakusandha, Koṇāgamana, and Kassapa. The most popular legendary account of the birth of Buddha is in the Nidanakatha Jataka (see, Jataka tales) which accounted for the lives of Buddha in previous incarnations. In this account, the “Great Being” chose the time and place of his birth, the tribe into which he would be born, and who his mother would be. In the time chosen by him, Maya, his mother, fell asleep and dreamed that four archangels carried her to the Himalayan Mountains where their queens bathed and dressed her. In her dream the Great Being soon entered her womb from her side, in the form of a white elephant. When she woke, she told her dream to the Raja, who summoned sixty-four eminent Brahmans to interpret it.\n\n\"Then is described how at his birth he took seven great steps and at the seventh he shouted, 'I am the chief of the world,' how he at birth held in his hand some medicine that became for him the drug by which he later healed the sick and blind and deaf, how at birth he wished to give a gift but was presented one himself by his mother, and how lastly he sang the song of victory.'\n\nThe Yellow Emperor is sometimes said to have been the fruit of extraordinary birth, as his mother Fubao conceived him as she was aroused, while walking in the country, by a lightning bolt from the Big Dipper.\n\nQi, the Abandoned One, who later became known as Houji a culture hero or god of agriculture was held in some accounts to have been miraculously conceived when his mother, the consort Jiang Yuan, stepped into a footprint left by the supreme god Shangdi.\n\nSome Taoist schools held that Laozi was conceived when his mother gazed upon a falling star. He was born while his mother was leaning against a plum tree. Laozi was said to have emerged as an old man with a full grey beard. This may be because his name \"Old Master\" () can also be read as \"Old Child\".\n\nThere are some legends about the birth of Abaoji (also known as Yi), the Emperor Taizu of Liao. According to the legends, his mother dreamed that the sun fell from the sky and into her bosom, from which pregnancy followed. When she gave birth, the room is said to have become filled with a mysterious light and extraordinary fragrance. As a newborn, his body was that of a three-year-old, and the legends go on to say that he was walking at the age of three months.\n\nMainstream scholars agree that the nativity of Jesus, if not taken as historically accurate, should be interpreted within the context of first-century Judaism, not in the context of foreign mythologies, which contain only remote similarities.\n\nAccording to tradition of the Catholic church, the Virgin Mary's parents, St. Anne and St. Joachim, were childless, when an angel came to them and told them they would give birth to a daughter. During the conception of Mary, she was preserved from the stain of original sin.\n\nThe Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of Matthew describe the nativity of Jesus. In the account in the Gospel of Luke, Mary learns from the angel Gabriel that she will conceive and bear a child. When she asks how this can be, since she is a virgin, he tells her that the Holy Spirit would \"come upon her\" and that \"nothing will be impossible with God\". She responds: \"Here am I, the servant of the Lord; let it be with me according to your word\".\n\nAt the time that Mary is due to give birth, she and her husband Joseph travel from their home in Nazareth to Joseph's ancestral home in Bethlehem to register in the Census of Quirinius. Finding no place for themselves in the inn, Mary gives birth to Jesus and she places him in a manger (feeding trough). An angel of the Lord visits the shepherds guarding their flocks in nearby fields and brings them \"good news of great joy\": \"to you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is the Messiah, the Lord.\" The angel tells them they will find a child wrapped in bands of cloth and lying in a manger.\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew, the impending birth is announced to Joseph in a dream, in which he is instructed to name the child Jesus. A star reveals the birth of Jesus to a number (traditionally three) of \"magi\", Greek \"μάγος\", commonly translated as \"wise man\" but in this context probably meaning \"astronomer\" or \"astrologer\", who travel to Jerusalem from an unspecified country \"in the east\".\n\nAfter the 1st century, traditions flourished that represented the thinking of that time, and also preserved source material for many of the ideas in the \"theological writings of the church fathers.\" In their present form the pseudepigraphal writings contained in the Sibylline Oracles include literature written from the 2nd century BC through the 6th century of the Christian era. They contain some material relevant to the birth and infancy of Jesus. But this passage in the Oracles, Book III, probably represents the hopes of pre-Christian Alexandrian Jews.\n\n\"Be of good cheer, O maiden, and exult; for the Eternal, who made heaven and earth, has given thee joy, and he will dwell in thee, and for thee shall be an immortal light.\nAnd wolves and lambs promiscuously shall eat grass in the mountains, and among the kids shall leopards graze,\nAnd wandering bears shall lodge among the calves, and the carnivorous lion\nshall eat straw in the manger like the ox,\nand little children lead them with a band. For tame will be on earth the beasts he made,\nAnd with young babes will dragons fall asleep, and no harm, for God’s hand will be on them.\"\n\nLater, the church fathers refer to subsequent books in the Oracles that are clear allusions to Christ, and probably dated from the close of the second or beginning of the 3rd century AD. The first Christian theologians demonstrated in their writings their knowledge of such non-canonical sources.\n\nThe non-canonical gospels contain much that is pertinent. The apocryphal literature departs from the Christian canon and its legends have many elements similar to pagan stories representing popular beliefs of the church from the second Christian century on through the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Qur'an and other Islamic literature contain reports of a number of miraculous births of biblical characters. The Qur'an describes virginal conception of Jesus by Mary (Arabic: \"Maryam\"), which is recounted throughout several passages in the Qur'an. The narrative goes that Mary was visited by the angel Gabriel that she will give birth to a holy son, named Isa' (Jesus), the Messiah and that he will be a great prophet, to whom God will give the Injil (Gospel) and he will speak in infancy and maturity and will be a companion to the most righteous. When this news was given to Mary, she asked the angel how she can have a baby as she was a virgin. To this, the angel replied \"Even though when God wants to create a matter, he merely wills (Kun-fa-yakun) it and the things come into being\".\n\nAfter giving birth, while resting near the trunk of a palm tree Jesus spoke to Mary from the cradle instructing her to shake the tree and obtain its fruits. After showing Jesus as a newborn to her family Jesus again spoke \"Lo, I am God's servant; God has given me the Book, and made me a Prophet. Blessed he has made me, wherever I may be; and He has enjoined me to pray, and to give alms, so long as I live and likewise to cherish my mother\" in order to dispel rumours of conception. This birth narrative draws strong parallels to the apocryphal tradition of Jesus' birth within the \"Infancy Gospel of Thomas\" and \"Arabic Infancy Gospel\".\n\nAfter the death of the Abdullah his wife Aminah had a vision where angels visited her and informed that soon she will give birth to a boy and told her to name him Muhammad. When Prophet Muhammad was about to be born, Aminah was visited by Hawa, Asiya and Mary with angels to help her. All the pagan idols of Kaaba fall down and bright light appeared.\n\nIn 1440, the poet Kabir was also said to have been born of a virgin widow (a Hindu), through the palm of her hand. Like Karna, Kabir was sent down the river in a basket; he was found and adopted by a family of Muslim weavers, downstream. This (presumably posthumous) account—which depicts Kabir as secretly descended from Hindus—was intended to legitimise Kabir's religious authority in the eyes of the Hindu population who venerated his works. This story is absent from Muslim and Sikh accounts of Kabir's work.\n\nThe myth of Huitzilopochtli is uniquely Aztec. Huitzilopochtli is therefore considered to be the cult god or the patron god of the Aztec. As a solar deity, Huitzilopochtli is closely related to and overlaps with Tonatiuh. Huitzilopochtli’s mother was Coatlicue, or She of the Serpent Skirt. Coatlicue, known for her devout nature and virtuous qualities, was at Mount Coatepec or Coatepetl (\"Serpent Hill\"; near Tula, Hidalgo) one day, sweeping and tending to her penance, when she discovered a bundle of feathers on the ground. She decided to save them and placed them in her bosom. Without her realizing, the feathers impregnated her.\n\nThere are several stories about the birth of Quetzalcoatl. In the first story, Quetzalcoatl was born by a virgin named Chimalman, to whom the god Ometeotl appeared in a dream. In another story, the virgin Chimalman conceived Quetzalcoatl by swallowing an emerald. A third story narrates that Chimalman was hit in the womb by an arrow bolted by Mixcoatl and nine months later she gave birth to Quetzalcoatl. A fourth story narrates that Quetzalcoatl was born from Coatlicue, who already had four hundred children who formed the stars of the Milky Way.\n\nAccording to a legend narrated by \"The Secret History of the Mongols\", a Mongol woman named Alan Gua had a son, named Bodonchar, some years after her husband has died. She claimed a radiant yellow person visited her at night and impregnated her. She believed the visitor was the god Tengri. Bodonchar became the founder of the Borjigin tribe and a direct ancestor of Genghis Khan.\n\nMiraculous births are common in Japanese folklore, and include Momotarō the Peach Boy (who was found inside a giant peach floating on a river), Kintarō (about whom several origin myths are told), and Kaguya-hime (who was born inside the stalk of a glowing bamboo plant).\n\nThe Great Peacemaker, sometimes referred to as Deganawida or Dekanawida (Iroquois) was born a Huron, and by some accounts, his mother was a virgin, so the birth was miraculous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15158793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15158793", "title": "Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse", "text": "Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse\n\nPittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse (PLSG) is an investment firm based in the South Side neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that provides resources and tools to entrepreneurial life sciences enterprises in Pittsburgh and western Pennsylvania in order to advance research and patient care.\n\nSince PLSG began operations in 2002, it has assisted more than 435 life sciences companies and has affected more than 10,000 jobs in western Pennsylvania. PLSG has provided 34 companies with office or laboratory space, and 14 have been relocated to Pittsburgh from outside the region. PLSG has invested over $20 million in 77 companies, which has leveraged over $1.5 billion in additional capital to the region.\n\nPLSG guides researchers, entrepreneurs and emerging companies through the challenges faced in early stages of company development. They provide support to companies developing product and service innovations in biotechnology tools, diagnostics/screening, healthcare IT, medical devices and therapeutics. PLSG also helps in the expansion of more mature life science companies, by supporting new product and market developments and connecting them to investors.\n\nPittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse grew out of an original plan known as BioVenture, developed by CMU and Pitt. The initiative received a major boost in 2001 when money from the state's settlement with the tobacco industry was pledged to create a life science greenhouse in Western Pennsylvania. In 2003, Pittsburgh Biomedical Corporation, a non-profit established in 1988 by the Pittsburgh Technology Council, consolidated with PLSG.\n\nToday, PLSG exists as a partnership between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and the regional foundation of community. Their state mission is to \"create, nurture and help establish a globally dominant life sciences industry in western Pennsylvania.\" \n\nCapital Investment Programs:\n\nPLSG’s Technology Development Fund is a program designed to benefit the local economy. The Early Stage Fund is geared toward seed and early-stage life sciences companies, and works to achieve rapid company formation and technology commercialization milestones. Portfolio companies Cohera Medical, ALung Technologies and Personal Health Recording for Quality of Life have all seen success from the funds.[1]\n\nIn addition to funding, PLSG’s Business Growth Programs help regional innovators make entry to market and sustain company growth.\n\nVenture Capital Partnerships help to guide VC firms and angel investors to opportunities within PLSG Portfolio companies. Since start of operations in 2002, PLSG has committed over $20 million into 77 life sciences companies and have attracted over $1 billion in additional capital for these emerging businesses.\n\nBusiness Growth Programs:\n\nPLSG helps companies at every stage move from laboratory to marketplace, to realize their full potential. They assist in creating a management team and business model that can build and sustain companies through commercialization milestones.\n\nCompanies already generating product or service revenue can also growth their success with PLSG programs for market expansion, new product or service development, workforce development, investor relations and industry collaboration.\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.post-gazette.com/business/2014/04/05/Business-Briefs-143/stories/201404050019</nowiki>\n\nBiotechnology Companies:\n\n· Applied Isotope Technologies[1]\n\n· Celsense[2]\n\n· Crystalplex[3]\n\n· Falcon Genomics[4]\n\n· Immunetrics[5]\n\n· MS2 Array[6]\n\n· SpectraGenetics[1]\n\nDiagnostics:\n\n· Advanced Technology Healthcare Solutions\n\n· Cernostics[1]\n\n· Intelomed[2]\n\n· NanoLambda\n\n· RedPath Integrated Pathology[3]\n\nHealthcare IT:\n\n· Better Body[4] Image\n\n· Blenderhouse[5]\n\n· Brainstage[6]\n\n· Caliber Infosolutions[7]\n\n· Chronic Health Metrics\n\n· Hability[8]\n\n· Health Monitoring Systems[9]\n\n· MedRespond[10]\n\n· MedSage Technologies[11]\n\n· Mymedcoupons.com[12]\n\n· NewCare Solutions[13]\n\n· PHRQL[14]\n\n· Treatspace[15]\n\n· Well Bridge Health[16]\n\nMedical Devices:\n\n· ALung Technologies[17]\n\n· BioSafe[1]\n\n· Carmell Therapeutics[2]\n\n· ChemDAQ[3]\n\n· Circadiance[4]\n\n· Cohera Medical[5]\n\n· Flexicath[6]\n\n· Medrobotics[7]\n\n· NeuroInterventional Therapeutics\n\n· Neuro Kinetics[8]\n\n· Quantum Ops[9]\n\n· ReGear Life Sciences[10]\n\n· Rinovum[11]\n\n· Rubitection Inc.[12]\n\n· Separation Design Group[13]\n\n· Spinal MetRX\n\n· Starr Life Sciences[14]\n\n· Vytrace\n\n· Wright Therapy Products[15]\n\nTherapeutics:\n\n· ATRP Solutions[16]\n\n· Biomed Research & Technologies\n\n· Cognition Therapeutics[17]\n\n· Complexa[18]\n\n· Knopp Biosciences[19]\n\n· Launchcyte[20]\n\n· Lipella Pharmaceuticals[1]\n\n· LSEC\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.lipella.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://biosafe.com/</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://www.carmellrx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.chemdaq.com/</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.circadiance.com/</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://www.coheramedical.com/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://www.flexicath.com/</nowiki>\n\n[7] <nowiki>http://www.medrobotics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[8] <nowiki>http://www.neuro-kinetics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[9] <nowiki>http://quantumops.com/</nowiki>\n\n[10] <nowiki>http://regearlife.com/</nowiki>\n\n[11] <nowiki>http://rinovum.com/</nowiki>\n\n[12] <nowiki>http://rubitection.com/</nowiki>\n\n[13] <nowiki>http://www.separationdesign.com/</nowiki>\n\n[14] <nowiki>http://www.starrlifesciences.com/</nowiki>\n\n[15] <nowiki>http://www.wrighttherapy.com/</nowiki>\n\n[16] <nowiki>http://www.atrpsolutions.com/</nowiki>\n\n[17] <nowiki>http://www.cogrx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[18] <nowiki>http://www.complexarx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[19] <nowiki>http://www.knoppneurosciences.com/</nowiki>\n\n[20] <nowiki>http://launchcyte.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.cernostics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://intelomed.com/</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.redpathip.com/</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.betterbodyimage.com/story.php</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://blenderhouse.com/home/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://www.brainstage.com/</nowiki>\n\n[7] <nowiki>http://www.caliberindia.com/</nowiki>\n\n[8] <nowiki>http://www.hability.net/index.php</nowiki>\n\n[9] <nowiki>http://www.hmsinc.com/</nowiki>\n\n[10] <nowiki>http://www.medrespond.com/</nowiki>\n\n[11] <nowiki>http://www.medsagetechnologies.com/</nowiki>\n\n[12] <nowiki>https://www.innovationworks.org/Our-Companies/Alphabetical-Listing/Portfolio-Details/ArticleId/899/MyMedCoupons-LLC</nowiki>\n\n[13] <nowiki>http://silentalertmonitor.com/index.html</nowiki>\n\n[14] <nowiki>http://www.phrql.com/</nowiki>\n\n[15] <nowiki>https://www.treatspace.com/</nowiki>\n\n[16] <nowiki>http://wellbridgehealth.com/</nowiki>\n\n[17] <nowiki>http://www.alung.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://spectragenetics.com/about-us/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://sidms.com/about</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://www.celsense.com/about.html</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.crystalplex.com/#start</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.falcongenomics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://www.immunetrics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://ms2array.com/</nowiki>\n\n\nVideo\n"}
{"id": "5844832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5844832", "title": "Ray Gricar", "text": "Ray Gricar\n\nRay Frank Gricar (; born October 9, 1945, missing April 15, 2005) was an American attorney who served as the district attorney of Centre County, Pennsylvania, from 1985 until 2005. On April 15, 2005, Gricar went missing under mysterious circumstances and has not been heard from since. After he had been missing for over six years with no trace of his whereabouts, Centre County authorities declared Gricar legally dead on July 25, 2011.\n\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio, Gricar received his Juris Doctor degree from Case Western Reserve University School of Law and began his career as a prosecutor for Cuyahoga County. He moved to State College, Pennsylvania, around 1980 and, after a brief stint as an assistant district attorney, was elected district attorney of Centre County in 1985. He was re-elected four times before announcing that he would not run for re-election in the 2005 campaign.\n\nGricar was reported missing to authorities after failing to return home from a road trip. His car was found in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania with his cell phone inside, and his laptop computer was found in the adjacent Susquehanna River; other than that, no trace of Gricar has been found.\n\nGricar was born in Cleveland, Ohio, and grew up in the city's Collinwood neighborhood. He attended high school at the Gilmour Academy, a prestigious Catholic school in Gates Mills. He went on to attend the University of Dayton, where he became interested in studying law after working as an intern for the prosecutor's office. After graduating, he moved back to Cleveland to study law at Case Western Reserve University School of Law. He obtained his Juris Doctor and subsequently took a job as a prosecutor for Cuyahoga County, specializing in prosecuting cases of rape and murder.\n\nIn 1980, Gricar moved to State College, Pennsylvania, when his wife took a job at Pennsylvania State University. He opted to become a stay-at-home dad to his young daughter following the move. However, Centre County District Attorney David E. Grine offered Gricar an assistant position, which he accepted. In 1985, the incumbent district attorney, Robert Mix (Grine's successor), chose not to run for re-election, and Gricar ran for the open position. He won the election by a margin of 600 votes.\n\nGricar's office was part-time when he was elected, and he successfully campaigned to make it full-time in 1996. He was re-elected in 1989, 1993, 1997, and 2001. During his tenure, Gricar prosecuted the perpetrator of the 1996 Hetzel Union Building shooting. In 1998, Gricar declined to press charges against longtime Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky following allegations of sexual abuse; Sandusky was charged and convicted of multiple counts of child sexual abuse thirteen years later. In 2004, Gricar announced he would not run for re-election, and would retire from practicing law altogether in December 2005, shortly after his 60th birthday.\n\nGricar met Barbara Gray during his undergraduate study at the University of Dayton. She moved to Cleveland with him after graduation and they married in 1969. They adopted a baby girl, Lara, in 1978. Ray and Barbara Gricar divorced in 1991; Ray married again in 1996, but divorced in 2001. In 2002 or 2003, Gricar moved in with his girlfriend Patty Fornicola, an employee of the Centre County District Attorney's office. He was living with Fornicola in her childhood home in Bellefonte at the time of his disappearance.\n\nRay Gricar's older brother Roy disappeared from his West Chester, Ohio, home in May 1996. His body was found a week later in the Great Miami River; authorities ruled his death a suicide.\n\nAt 11:30 a.m. (EDT) on April 15, 2005, Gricar called Fornicola to inform her that he was driving through the Brush Valley area northeast of Centre Hall. Gricar failed to return home, and late that evening, Fornicola reported him missing.\n\nThe following day, investigators identified Gricar's red Mini Cooper in an antique-store parking lot in Lewisburg. The car contained his county-issued cell phone but not his laptop computer, keys, or wallet. Investigators identified no signs of foul play. Police and family members noted that the location of the vehicle, adjacent to two bridges over the Susquehanna River, bore some similarities to the location of the vehicle of Gricar's older brother Roy when he committed suicide in 1996. In the days following the discovery of Ray Gricar's vehicle, authorities searched the river and its banks but found no sign of him. Police also noted that a sniffer dog's behaviour around where Gricar's car was found suggested that he might have got into another vehicle with someone else. Pennsylvania authorities asked the FBI to analyze his bank accounts, credit card records, and cell phone records, but found no clues as to where he may have been.\n\nOn July 30, fishermen discovered Gricar's county-issued laptop in the Susquehanna River beneath a bridge between Lewisburg and Milton, but its hard drive was missing. Divers searched the area of the river near where it was found over the next several days, but found nothing else. Two months later, someone recovered a hard drive on the banks of the Susquehanna River about from the location of the laptop, and investigators hypothesized that it had come from his computer; however, it was badly damaged, and analysis by the FBI, the U.S. Secret Service, and the data-recovery firm Kroll Ontrack failed to recover anything from it. In April 2009, Bellefonte police revealed that before Gricar's disappearance, someone had used the home computer at the couple's residence to perform internet searches on topics such as \"how to wreck a hard drive\", \"how to fry a hard drive\" and \"water damage to a notebook computer\".\n\nIn June 2011, Gricar's daughter Lara, who was trustee of his estate, petitioned Centre County to declare him dead. County President Judge David E. Grine declared him \"dead in absentia\" on July 25, 2011. The following day, police in Utah arrested on a misdemeanor charge a man resembling Gricar, who refused to reveal his identity. This \"John Doe\" resembled Gricar in height and weight, lips, and even some wrinkles, and the similarities led to speculation that Gricar had been found. Centre County authorities sent copies of Gricar's fingerprints to Utah, but they didn't match. Authorities eventually identified the man.\n\nThere are three main theories as to what happened to Gricar.\n\nThe primary theory is he committed suicide just as his brother had done, something supported by the similarities between the two cases. Police working on the case believed this theory to be most likely, although his family did not believe this. Although Gricar was a poor swimmer, he had no medical history of depression or of suicidal thoughts. He was also reportedly looking forward to his upcoming retirement.\n\nThe second theory is foul play. Early on it was suggested that Gricar's disappearance might be linked to the unsolved death of Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Luna, a drug investigator who was found dead in a Lancaster County creek in December 2003. Gricar had recently been involved in a police operation busting a heroin dealing ring, and the criminals concerned were investigated for any links to his disappearance, but none were found. Suggestions were also made that Gricar's decision to decline to prosecute Penn State football coach Jerry Sandusky for alleged sexual assault of a minor might be linked to his disappearance. Gricar's own family came under suspicion: both his girlfriend and his stepdaughter were asked to take polygraphs by the police, which they both passed. A senior former member of Hell's Angels claimed in 2012 that Gricar was killed by another member of the gang as payback for having previously given him a lengthy prison sentence for aggravated assault. He stated that the body was hidden in a mine shaft, but declined to give a specific location.\n\nThe third theory is that he wished to start a new life and therefore engineered his disappearance. Gricar allegedly expressed interest in the case of a Cleveland police chief who had disappeared in order to start a new life. Multiple sightings of Gricar were reported after his disappearance, most notably in a bar in Wilkes-Barre, where both the bartender and an off-duty police officer claimed to have seen Gricar watching a baseball game. It has also been suggested that Gricar may have taken off to Eastern Europe. He was semi-fluent in Russian and fluent in Slovak. He had relatives in Slovenia and had made trips to this region of the world in the past.\n\nGricar's disappearance was the subject of television documentary programs, including episodes of \"Haunting Evidence\" on Court TV in June 2006, \"Disappeared\" on Investigation Discovery in February 2011, and news magazine \"Dateline NBC\" in December 2011. An episode of the drama \"Without a Trace\" on CBS referred to the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34558159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34558159", "title": "Reasonable person model", "text": "Reasonable person model\n\nThe reasonable person model (RPM) is a psychological framework which argues that people are at their best when their informational needs are met. Positing that unreasonableness is not a human trait, but rather the result of environment (context and circumstances), the RPM attempts to define the environments/actions that foster reasonableness, defining three key areas that assist with this: model building, being effective, and meaningful action.\n\nThe RPM was developed by environmental psychologists Stephen and Rachel Kaplan and integrates principles from environmental, cognitive, and evolutionary psychology.\n\nThe RPM is a psychological framework that posits human functioning is improved when the following three domains of informational needs are met:\n\n\nRPM states that an environment or context supportive of informational needs can foster reasonable behavior that will \"bring out the best in people\".\n\nThe use of the term \"reasonable\" in RPM has commonalities and differences with the colloquial use of the word. In RPM, reasonableness refers to the ways in which \"one would hope people behave\". The concept is partially conveyed by what it is not, unreasonable states such as incivility, aggression, irritability and impatience. Examples may also include \"...demanding fairness for oneself while denying it to others, displaying intolerance and disrespect for others, willingness to harm or kill because of differences in beliefs, and attempting to extract the earth’s resources for personal gain without regard for the needs of future generations\".\n\nThe RPM may be viewed as a contrary theory to rational man theory (also known as Homo Economicus) or related rational choice theory, in that it describes a landscape of mutual dependencies, such as the manner in which people treat one another. RPM assumes that information is often misunderstood, overwhelming, and unavailable. It also assumes that people are not interested in maximizing personal gain, but rather satisficing. RPM further asserts that people often have multiple concerns which cannot be reduced to a single monetary value.\n\nReasonableness shares some themes with subjective well-being, including emphasis on positive/negative affect and quality of life. However, whereas SWB addresses self-directed feelings, RPM also considers the contexts that foster civil behavior and improve relationships between people.\n\nThe world, as William James described it, is a \"blooming buzzing confusion\". Mental models are neural structures, made of neurons and synapses, that organize our experiences into a usable form and allow us to\n\"If the organism carries a “small-scale model” of external reality and of its own possible actions within its head, it is able to try out various alternatives, conclude which is the best of them, react to future situations before they arise, utilize the knowledge of past events in dealing with the present and future, and in every way to react in a much fuller, easier, and more competent manner to the emergencies which face it.\" \n\nMental models are built through repetition, variation, and association. Experiencing something multiple times is said to lead to an internal representation. Experiencing sequences of things associates our internal representations in a mental map according to how those things occur in reality. Donald Hebb's rule put it as: Things that fire together, wire together.\n\nThis refers to the skills needed over and above basic knowledge to accomplish goals and refers to a state of mind that is capable of attending to and managing information. Lack of clearheadedness is described within attention restoration theory, which states there are two attentional systems: one for attending to naturally fascinating stimuli and another that allows us to intentionally direct our attention. Richard Louv's notion of nature deficit disorder describes some of the symptoms associated with a younger generation who do not spend time outdoors.\n\nRPM's third domain argues that people have a desire to use their knowledge and skills to make a difference. Fewer people have work that is directly connected to their survival yet the evolutionary desire to make a difference remains. The inability to do so can lead to learned helplessness and feeling hopeless and alone in the face of seemingly insurmountable challenges. Such a state is not amenable to effective human functioning, yet there continues to be, as Kaplan describes, a \"pervasive malaise of helplessness\". Goldschmidt described what he termed The Human Career as: one in which humans are primarily seeking the respect of others\". It is argued that, in participatory contexts, the most effective strategies are ones that help people feel like they can make a difference.\n\nRPM has been applied to the following domains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38015328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38015328", "title": "Roger Freeman (politician)", "text": "Roger Freeman (politician)\n\nRoger Freeman (November 30, 1965 – October 29, 2014) was an American politician of the Democratic Party. He was a member of the Washington House of Representatives, representing the 30th Legislative District. He died in office of colon cancer, but was subsequently re-elected posthumously. Freeman was African-American.\n"}
{"id": "1932581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932581", "title": "Russian tortoise", "text": "Russian tortoise\n\nThe Russian tortoise (\"Agrionemys horsfieldii\"), also commonly known as the Afghan tortoise, the Central Asian tortoise, Horsfield's tortoise, and the steppe tortoise, is a threatened species of tortoise in the family Testudinidae. The species is endemic to Central Asia. Human activities in its native habitat contribute to its threatened status.\n\nBoth the specific name, \"horsfieldii\", and the common name \"Horsfield's tortoise\" are in honor of the American naturalist Thomas Horsfield.\n\nThis species is traditionally placed in \"Testudo\". Due to distinctly different morphological characteristics, the monotypic genus \"Agrionemys\" was proposed for it in 1966. Today, \"Agrionemys horsfieldii\" is currently being accepted. DNA sequence analysis generally concurs, but not too robustly so. Some sources also list three separate subspecies of Russian tortoise, but they are not widely accepted by taxonomists:\n\n\nThe Russian tortoise is a small tortoise species, with a size range of . Females grow slightly larger () to accommodate more eggs. Males average .\nRussian tortoises are sexually dimorphic. Males tend to have longer tails generally tucked to the side, and longer claws; females have a short, fat tail, with shorter claws than the males. The male has a slit-shaped vent (cloaca) near the tip of its tail; the female has an asterisk-shaped vent (cloaca).\nRussian tortoises have four toes. Coloration varies, but the shell is usually a ruddy brown or black, fading to yellow between the scutes, and the body is straw-yellow and brown depending on the subspecies.\n\nThe male Russian tortoise courts a female through head bobbing, circling, and biting her forelegs. When she submits, he mounts her from behind, making high-pitched squeaking noises during mating.\n\nThe species can spend as much as 9 months of the year in dormancy.\n\nIn captivity, diet typically consists of lamb's lettuce, plantains and geraniums. The diet should be varied and may include juvenile dandelions and different species of lettuce, though like very many plants, they should be fed rarely due to potentially harmful side effects (for the former) or a lack of nutritional value (for the latter). \nWater is important for all species, but the tortoise, being an arid species, will typically get water from their food, but they still need a constant supply. Tortoises should be soaked in warm water up to the mid shell. Tortoises typically empty their bowels in water as to hide their scent, this is an instinct, and it also helps keep their enclosure cleaner.\n\nRussian tortoises do not require a CITES Article X certificate.\n\nIn September 1968 two Russian tortoises flew to the Moon, circled it, and returned safely to Earth on the Russian Zond 5 mission. Accompanied by mealworms, plants, and other lifeforms, they were the first Earth creatures to travel to the Moon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634444", "title": "Social structure", "text": "Social structure\n\nIn the social sciences, social structure is the patterned social arrangements in society that are both emergent from and determinant of the actions of the individuals. On the macro scale, social structure is the system of socioeconomic stratification (e.g., the class structure), social institutions, or, other patterned relations between large social groups. On the meso scale, it is the structure of social network ties between individuals or organizations. On the micro scale, it can be the way norms shape the behavior of individuals within the social system.\n\nSocial norms influence social structure through relations between the majority and the minority. Because those who align with the majority are considered normal while those who align with the minority are considered abnormal, majority-minority relations create a hierarchical stratification within social structures that favors the majority in all aspects of society.\n\nThese scales are not always kept separate. For example, recent scholarship by John Levi Martin has theorized that certain macro-scale structures are the emergent properties of micro-scale cultural institutions (this meaning of \"structure\" resembles that used by anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss). Likewise, another recent study, in ethnography, describes how indigenous social structure in the Republic of Panama changed macro social structures and impeded a planned Panama Canal expansion. Marxist sociology also has a history of mixing different meanings of social structure, though it has done so by simply treating the cultural aspects of social structure as epiphenomena of its economic ones.\n\nSince the 1920s, the term has been in general use in social science, especially as a variable whose sub-components needed to be distinguished in relationship to other sociological variables.\n\nThe notion of social structure \"as relationship between different entities or groups\" or as \"enduring and relatively stable patterns of relationship\" emphasises the idea that society is grouped into structurally related groups or sets of roles, with different functions, meanings or purposes. One example of social structure is the idea of \"social stratification\", which refers to the idea that most societies are separated into different strata (levels), guided (if only partially) by the underlying structures in the social system. This approach has been important in the academic literature with the rise of various forms of structuralism. It is important in the modern study of organizations, because an organization's structure may determine its flexibility, capacity to change, and many other factors. Therefore, structure is an important issue for management.\n\nSocial structure may be seen to influence important social systems including the economic system, legal system, political system, cultural system, and others. Family, religion, law, economy, and class are all social structures. The \"social system\" is the parent system of those various systems that are embedded in it.\n\nThe early study of social structures has informed the study of institutions, culture and agency, social interaction, and history. Alexis de Tocqueville was apparently the first to use the term social structure; later, Karl Marx, Herbert Spencer, Max Weber, Ferdinand Tönnies, and Émile Durkheim all contributed to structural concepts in sociology. Weber investigated and analyzed the institutions of modern society: market, bureaucracy (private enterprise and public administration), and politics (e.g. democracy).\n\nOne of the earliest and most comprehensive accounts of social structure was provided by Karl Marx, who related political, cultural, and religious life to the mode of production (an underlying economic structure). Marx argued that the economic base substantially determined the cultural and political superstructure of a society. Subsequent Marxist accounts, such as that by Louis Althusser, proposed a more complex relationship that asserted the relative autonomy of cultural and political institutions, and a general determination by economic factors only \"in the last instance\".\n\nIn 1905, the German sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies first published his study \"The Present Problems of Social Structure\" in the U.S.A, arguing that only the \"constitution\" of a multitude into a unity creates a \"social structure\" (basing this approach on his concept of social will).\n\nÉmile Durkheim (drawing on the analogies between biological and social systems popularized by Herbert Spencer and others) introduced the idea that diverse social institutions and practices played a role in assuring the functional integration of society through assimilation of diverse parts into a unified and self-reproducing whole. In this context, Durkheim distinguished two forms of structural relationship: mechanical solidarity and organic solidarity. The former describes structures that unite similar parts through a shared culture; the latter describes differentiated parts united through social exchange and material interdependence.\n\nAs did Marx and Weber, more generally, Georg Simmel developed a wide-ranging approach that provided observations and insights into domination and subordination, competition, division of labor, formation of parties, representation, inner solidarity coupled with exclusiveness toward the outside, and many similar features in the state, in a religious community, in an economic association, in an art school, and in family and kinship networks (however diverse the interests that give rise to these associations, the forms in which interests are realized may yet be identical (Crothers, 1996)).\n\nThe notion of social structure was extensively developed in the 20th century, with key contributions from structuralist perspectives drawing on the theories of Claude Lévi-Strauss, Feminist or Marxist perspectives, from functionalist perspectives such as those developed by Talcott Parsons and his followers, or from a variety of analytic perspectives (see Blau 1975, Lopez and Scott 2000). Some follow Marx in trying to identify the basic dimensions of society that explain the other dimensions, most emphasizing either economic production or political power. Others follow Lévi-Strauss in seeking logical order in cultural structures. Still others, notably Peter Blau, follow Simmel in attempting to base a formal theory of social structure on numerical patterns in relationships—analyzing, for example, the ways in which factors like group size shape intergroup relations.\n\nThe notion of social structure is intimately related to a variety of central topics in social science, including the relation of structure and agency. The most influential attempts to combine the concept of social structure with agency are Anthony Giddens' theory of structuration and Pierre Bourdieu's practice theory. Giddens emphasizes the duality of structure and agency, in the sense that structures and agency cannot be conceived apart from one another. This permits him to argue that structures are neither independent of actors nor determining of their behavior, but rather sets of rules and competencies on which actors draw, and which, in the aggregate, they reproduce. Giddens's analysis, in this respect, closely parallels Jacques Derrida's deconstruction of the binaries that underlie classic sociological and anthropological reasoning (notably the universalizing tendencies of Lévi-Strauss's structuralism). Bourdieu's practice theory also seeks a more supple account of social structure as embedded in, rather than determinative of, individual behavior.\n\nOther recent work by Margaret Archer (morphogenesis theory), Tom R. Burns and collaborators (actor-system dynamics theory and social rule system theory), and Immanuel Wallerstein (World Systems Theory) provided elaborations and applications of the sociological classics in structural sociology.\n\nAs noted above, social structure has been identified as\n\nLopez and Scott (2000) distinguish between \"institutional structure\" and \"relational structure\", where in the former:\n\nwhereas in the latter:\n\nSocial structure can also be divided into microstructure and macrostructure. Microstructure is the pattern of relations between most basic elements of social life, that cannot be further divided and have no social structure of their own (for example, pattern of relations between individuals in a group composed of individuals - where individuals have no social structure, or a structure of organizations as a pattern of relations between social positions or social roles, where those positions and roles have no structure by themselves). Macrostructure is thus a kind of 'second level' structure, a pattern of relations between objects that have their own structure (for example, a political social structure between political parties, as political parties have their own social structure). Some types of social structures that modern sociologist differentiate are \"relation structures\" (in family or larger family-like clan structures), \"communication structures\" (how information is passed in organizations) and \"sociometric structures\" (structures of sympathy, antipathy and indifference in organisations - this was studied by Jacob L. Moreno).\n\nSocial rule system theory reduces the structures of (3) to particular rule system arrangements, that is, the types of basic structures of (1 and 2). It shares with role theory, organizational and institutional sociology, and network analysis the concern with structural properties and developments and at the same time provides detailed conceptual tools needed to generate interesting, fruitful propositions and models and analyses.\n\nSociologists also distinguish between:\n\nSome believe that social structure is naturally developed. It may be caused by larger system needs, such as the need for labour, management, professional and military classes, or by conflicts between groups, such as competition among political parties or among elites and masses. Others believe that this structuring is not a result of natural processes, but is socially constructed. It may be created by the power of elites who seek to retain their power, or by economic systems that place emphasis upon competition or cooperation. \n\nEthnography has contributed to understandings about social structure by revealing local practices and customs that differ from Western practices of hierarchy and economic power in its construction.\n\nThe most thorough account of the evolution of social structure is perhaps provided by structure and agency accounts that allow for a sophisticated analysis of the co-evolution of social structure and human agency, where socialised agents with a degree of autonomy take action in social systems where their action is on the one hand mediated by existing institutional structure and expectations but may, on the other hand, influence or transform that institutional structure. \n\nThe notion of social structure may mask systematic biases, as it involves many identifiable subvariables, for example, gender. Some argue that men and women who have otherwise equal qualifications receive different treatment in the workplace because of their gender, which would be termed a \"social structural\" bias, but other variables (such as time on the job or hours worked) might be masked. Modern social structural analysis takes this into account through multivariate analysis and other techniques, but the analytic problem of how to combine various aspects of social life into a whole remains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7756749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7756749", "title": "Special sciences", "text": "Special sciences\n\nSpecial sciences are those sciences other than fundamental physics, that are presumed to be reducible to fundamental physics, at least in principle. In this view, chemistry, biology, and neuroscience—indeed, all sciences except fundamental physics—are special sciences. The status of the special sciences, and their relation to physics, is unresolved in the philosophy of science. Jerry Fodor, for instance, has argued for \"strong autonomy\", concluding that the special sciences are not even in principle reducible to physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "12815175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12815175", "title": "Sándor Ádám", "text": "Sándor Ádám\n\nSándor Ádám (February 1, 1892 in Budapest – ?) was a Hungarian water polo player who competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics.\n\nHe was part of the Hungarian team in the 1912 tournament.\n"}
{"id": "3035321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3035321", "title": "Toilet-related injuries and deaths", "text": "Toilet-related injuries and deaths\n\nThere have been many toilet-related injuries and deaths throughout history and in urban legends.\n\nInfants and toddlers have fallen into toilets and drowned. Safety devices exist to help prevent such accidents. Young boys may experience a genital injury if the toilet seat falls down while they are standing at a toilet. Injuries to adults include bruised buttocks, tail bones, and dislocated hips from unsuspectingly sitting on the toilet bowl rim because the seat is up or loose. Injuries can also be caused by pinching due to splits in plastic seats or by splinters from wooden seats, or if the toilet itself collapses under the weight of the user. Peculiar cases involving teenagers drowning in the toilet bowl whilst attempting to drink the water have also been recently increasing, most famously the 17 year old boy, Kaustubh Kaushal, who fell asleep while attempting to drink water from a toilet bowl in Central Park II, Gurgaon, India. Older high tank cast iron cisterns have been known to detach from the wall when the chain is pulled to flush, causing injuries to the user. The 2000 Ig Nobel Prize in Public Health was awarded to three physicians from the Glasgow Western Infirmary for a 1993 case report on wounds sustained to the buttocks due to collapsing toilets. Furthermore, injuries are frequently sustained by people who stand on toilet seats to reach a height, and slip. There are also instances of people slipping on a wet bathroom floor or from a bath and concussing themselves on the fixture.\n\nToilet related injuries are also surprisingly common, with some estimates ranging up to 40,000 injuries in the US every year. In the past, this number would have been much higher, due to the material from which toilet paper was made. This was shown in a 1935 Northern Tissue advertisement which depicted splinter-free toilet paper. In 2012, 2.3 million toilets in the United States, and about 9,400 in Canada, were recalled due to faulty pressure-assist flush mechanisms which put users at risk of the fixture exploding.\n\nThere are also injuries caused by animals. Some black widow spiders like to spin their web below the toilet seat because insects abound in and around it. Therefore, several persons have been bitten while using a toilet, particularly an outhouse toilet. Although there is immediate pain at the bite site, these bites are rarely fatal. The danger of spiders living beneath toilet seats is the subject of Slim Newton's comic 1972 country song \"The Redback on the Toilet Seat\".\n\nIt has been reported that in some cases rats crawl up through toilet sewer pipes and emerge in the toilet bowl, so that toilet users may be at risk of being bitten by a rat. However, many rat exterminators do not believe this, as pipes, at generally six inches (15 centimeters) wide, are too large for rats to climb and are also very slippery. Reports by janitors are always on the top floor, and could involve the rats on the roof, entering the soil pipe through the roof vent, lowering themselves into the pipe and then into the toilet.\n\nIn May 2016, an 11 ft snake, a reticulated python, emerged from a squat toilet and bit the man using it on his penis at his home in Chachoengsao Province, Thailand. Both victim and python survived.\n\nSome instances of toilet-related deaths are attributed to the drop in blood pressure due to the parasympathetic nervous system during bowel movements. This effect may be magnified by existing circulatory issues. It is further possible that people succumb on the toilet to chronic constipation, because the Valsalva maneuver is often dangerously used to aid in the expulsion of feces from the rectum during a bowel movement. According to Sharon Mantik Lewis, Margaret McLean Heitkemper and Shannon Ruff Dirksen, the \"Valsalva maneuver … occurs during straining to pass a hardened stool. If defecation is suppressed over long periods, problems can occur, such as constipation or stool impaction. Defecation can be facilitated by the Valsalva maneuver. This maneuver involves contraction of the chest muscles on a closed glottis with simultaneous contraction of the abdominal muscles.\" This means that people can die while \"straining at stool.\" In chapter 8 of their \"Abdominal Emergencies\", David Cline and Latha Stead wrote that \"autopsy studies continue to reveal missed bowel obstruction as an unexpected cause of death\".\n\nA 2001 \"Sopranos\" episode \"He is Risen\" shows a fictional depiction of the risk, when the character Gigi Cestone has a heart attack on the toilet of his social club while straining to defecate.\n\nIn the Victorian era, there was a perceived risk of toilets exploding. These scenarios typically include a flammable substance either accidentally or deliberately being introduced into the toilet water, and a lit match or cigarette igniting and exploding the toilet. In 2014, Sloan's Flushmate pressure-assisted flushing system which uses compressed air to force waste down the drain was recalled after the company received reports of the air tank failing under pressure and shattering the porcelain.\n\nIn 1945, the German submarine U-1206 was sunk after a toilet malfunctioned, resulting in seawater flooding into the hull, which when coming into contact with a battery, created chlorine gas, forcing the submarine to resurface. At the surface, it was discovered and sunk by Allied Forces. This case may not be due to toilet malfunction, due to the possibility that the pressurized flushing system in the U-Boats, which was incredibly complex and required a training course to operate, may not have been properly operated.\n\nGodfrey the Hunchback, Duke of Lower Lorraine (an area roughly coinciding with the Netherlands and Belgium) was murdered in 1069 when staying in the Dutch city of Vlaardingen. Supposedly, the assassin made sure which of the latrines, which were built and drained on the outer side of the wall, according to medieval building style, belonged to the duke's sleeping room, and took a position underneath. Some sources say that a sword was used for the assassination; others mention a sharp iron weapon, which could have been a sword but also a spear or a dagger, but a spear seems to be the most practical choice. After being stabbed in the bottom it took him several days to die. The assassination was ordered by Dirk V Count of Holland and his ally Robrecht the Frisian, Count of Flanders.\n\nKing Wenceslaus III of Bohemia was murdered with a spear while sitting in the garderobe on August 4, 1306.\n\nGeorge II of Great Britain died on the toilet on October 25, 1760 from an aortic dissection. According to Horace Walpole's memoirs, King George \"rose as usual at six, and drank his chocolate; for all his actions were invariably methodic. A quarter after seven he went into a little closet. His German \"valet de chambre\" in waiting heard a noise, and running in, found the King dead on the floor.\" In falling he had cut his face.\n\nIoan P. Culianu was shot dead while on the toilet in the third-floor men's room of Swift Hall on the campus of the University of Chicago on 21 May 1991, in a possibly politically-motivated assassination. His killer has never been caught.\n\nThere can be no doubt that the King of Rock and Roll, Elvis Presley, died when using the toilet. \"Most sources indicate that Elvis was likely sitting in the toilet area, partially nude, and reading when he collapsed.\" According to Dylan Jones, \"Elvis Presley died aged fortytwo on August 16th, 1977, in the bathroom of the star's own Graceland mansion in Memphis. Sitting on the toilet, he had toppled like a toy soldier and collapsed onto the floor, where he lay in a pool of his own vomit. His light blue pyjamas were around his ankles.\" In similar terms, Elvis biographer Joel Williamson writes, \"For some reason — perhaps involving a reaction to the codeine and attempts to move his bowels — he experienced pain and fright while sitting on the toilet. Alarmed, he stood up, dropped the book he was reading, stumbled forward, and fell face down in the fetal position. He struggled weakly and drooled on the rug. Unable to breathe, he died.\" This led to the common saying, “The King died on the throne”.\n\n\nAlbert Faille found dead in outhouse. Famed gold prospector in Fort Simpson NWT, Canada.\n\nUrban legends have been reported regarding the dangers of using a toilet in a variety of situations. Several of them have been shown to be questionable. These include some cases of the presence of venomous spiders Except for the Australian redback spider who has a reputation for hiding under toilet seats. These recent fears have emerged from a series of hoax emails originating in the Blush Spider hoax, which began circulating the internet in 1999. Spiders have also been reported to live under seats of airplanes, however, the cleaning chemicals used in the toilets would result in an incompatibility with spider's survival. In large cities like New York City, sewer rats often have mythical status regarding size and ferocity, resulting in tales involving the rodents crawling up sewer pipes to attack an unwitting occupant. Of late, stories about terrorists booby trapping the seat to castrate their targets have begun appearing. Another myth is the risk of being sucked into an aircraft lavatory as a result of vacuum pressure during a flight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303288", "title": "Turning a blind eye", "text": "Turning a blind eye\n\nTurning a blind eye is an idiom describing the ignoring of undesirable information.\n\nThe phrase \"to turn a blind eye\" is attributed to an incident in the life of Admiral Horatio Nelson. Nelson was blinded in one eye early in his Royal Navy career. During the Battle of Copenhagen in 1801 the cautious Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, in overall command of the British forces, sent a signal to Nelson's forces ordering them to discontinue the action. Naval orders were transmitted via a system of signal flags at that time. When this order was brought to the more aggressive Nelson's attention, he lifted his telescope up to his blind eye, saying, \"I have a right to be blind sometimes. I really do not see the signal,\" and most of his forces continued to press home the attack. The frigates supporting the line-of-battle ships did break off, in one case suffering severe losses in the retreat.\n\nThere is a misconception that the order was to be obeyed at Nelson's discretion, but this is contradicted by the fact that it was a general order to all the attacking ships (some of whom did break off), and that later that day Nelson openly stated that he had \"fought contrary to orders\". Sir Hyde Parker was recalled in disgrace and Nelson appointed Commander-in-Chief of the fleet following the battle.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary records usage of the phrase as early as 1698.\n\n"}
{"id": "46871132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46871132", "title": "Wereworms", "text": "Wereworms\n\nWereworms were mythical creatures in Middle-earth. In the stories of hobbits, the were-worms were supposedly terrible monsters that made their home in the Last Desert very far east of the Shire.\nIn the tales of \"The Hobbit\", the Wereworms were likened to Dragons and serpents. To Hobbits they were memories of creatures that stalked the Earth during the Wars of Beleriand.\n\nIn the early drafts of the book, J. R. R. Tolkien had associated these wereworms with the Gobi Desert. John D. Rateliff's \"The History of The Hobbit\" links this reference to Mongolian death worms.\n\nThese creatures appeared in \"\". Apparently they were used only for tunnelling, and not for fighting, because they did not take part in the ensuing battle.\nThey were thought to have tunnelled through the Misty Mountains and the Blue Mountains (Ered Luin), although tunnelling is known to be mostly the work of Dwarves.\n"}
{"id": "254879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254879", "title": "Widow", "text": "Widow\n\nA widow is a woman whose spouse has died and a widower is a man whose spouse has died. The treatment of widows and widowers around the world varies.\n\nA widow is a woman whose spouse has died, while a widower is a man whose spouse has died. The state of having lost one's spouse to death is termed \"widowhood\". These terms are not applied to a divorcé(e) following the death of an ex-spouse.\n\nThe term \"widowhood\" can be used for either sex, at least according to some dictionaries, but the word \"widowerhood\" is also listed in some dictionaries. Occasionally, the word \"viduity\" is used. The adjective for either sex is \"widowed\".\n\nIn societies where the husband is the sole provider, his death can leave his family destitute. The tendency for women generally to outlive men can compound this, as can men in many societies marrying women younger than themselves. In some patriarchal societies, widows may maintain economic independence. A woman would carry on her spouse's business and be accorded certain rights, such as entering guilds. More recently, widows of political figures have been among the first women elected to high office in many countries, such as Corazón Aquino or Isabel Martínez de Perón.\n\nIn 19th-century Britain, widows had greater opportunity for social mobility than in many other societies. Along with the ability to ascend socio-economically, widows—who were \"presumably celibate\"—were much more able (and likely) to challenge conventional sexual behaviour than married women in their society.\n\nIn some parts of Europe, including Russia, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Italy and Spain, widows used to wear black for the rest of their lives to signify their mourning, a practice that has since died out. Many immigrants from these cultures to the United States as recently as the 1970s have loosened this strict standard of dress to only two years of black garments. However, Orthodox Christian immigrants may wear lifelong black in the United States to signify their widowhood and devotion to their deceased husband.\n\nIn other cultures, however, widowhood customs are stricter. Often, women are required to remarry within the family of their late husband after a period of mourning. With the rise of HIV/AIDS levels of infection across the globe, rituals to which women are subjected in order to be \"cleansed\" or accepted into her new husband's home make her susceptible to the psychological adversities that may be involved as well as imposing health risks.\n\nIt may be necessary for a woman to comply with the social customs of her area because her fiscal stature depends on it, but this custom is also often abused by others as a way to keep money within the deceased spouse's family. It is also uncommon for widows to challenge their treatment because they are often \"unaware of their rights under the modern law…because of their low status, and lack of education or legal representation.\" . Unequal benefits and treatment generally received by widows compared to those received by widowers globally has spurred an interest in the issue by human rights activists.\n\nAs of 2004, women in United States who were \"widowed at younger ages are at greatest risk for economic hardship.\" Similarly, married women who are in a financially unstable household are more likely to become widows \"because of the strong relationship between mortality [of the male head] and wealth [of the household].\" In underdeveloped and developing areas of the world, conditions for widows continue to be much more severe. However, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (\"now ratified by 135 countries\"), while slow, is working on proposals which will make certain types of discrimination and treatment of widows (such as violence and withholding property rights) illegal in the countries that have joined CEDAW.\n\nThe phenomenon that refers to the increased mortality rate after the death of a spouse is called the \"widowhood effect\".. It is “strongest during the first three months after a spouse's death, when they had a 66-percent increased chance of dying.” Most widows and widowers suffer from this effect during the first 3 months of their spouse's death, however they can also suffer from this effect later on in their life for much longer than 3 months. There remains controversy over whether women or men have worse effects from becoming widowed, and studies have attempted to make their case for which side is worse off, while other studies try to show that there are no true differences based on gender and other factors are responsible for any differences.\n\nA variable that is deemed important and relative to the effects of widowhood is the gender of the widow. Research has shown that the difference falls in the burden of care, expectations, and finally how the react after the spouse's death. For example, women carry more a burden than men and are less willing to want to go through this again. After being widowed, however, men and women can react very differently and frequently have a change in lifestyle. A study has sought to show that women are more likely to yearn for their late husband if he were to be taken away suddenly. Men on the other hand tend to be more likely to long for their late wife if she were to die after suffering a long, terminal illness.\n\nAnother change that happens to most men is that their lifestyle habits become worse. For example, without a wife there, he is probably more likely to not watch what he eats like he would if she were there. Instead of having to make something himself, it is more of a convenience just to order take-out. Women do have a change in lifestyle, but they typically don’t have the problem of eating foods that are bad for her. Instead, women are typically more known to lose weight due to lack of eating. This is likely to be caused as a side effect of depression.\n\nThe older spouses grow, the more aware they are of being alone due to the death of their husband or wife. This negatively impacts the mental as well as physical well being in both men and women (Utz, Reidy, Carr, Nesse, & Wortman, 2004 as Cited in Mumtaz 71).\n\nIn parts of Africa, such as in Kenya, widows are viewed as impure and need to be 'cleansed'. This often requires having sex with someone. Those refusing to be cleansed risk getting beaten by superstitious villagers, who may also harm the woman's children. It is argued that this notion arose from the idea that if a husband dies, the woman may have performed witchcraft against him. \n\nIn parts of India and Nepal a woman is often accused of causing her husband’s death and is not allowed to look at another person as her gaze is considered bad luck.\n\nThose likely to be accused and killed as witches, such as in Papua New Guinea, are often widows. \n\nWidow inheritance (also known as bride inheritance) is a cultural and social practice whereby a widow is required to marry a male relative of her late husband, often his brother.\n\nUntil the early 19th century it was considered honourable in some parts of India for a Hindu widow to immolate herself on her late husband's funeral pyre. This custom, called sati, was outlawed in 1827 in British India and again in 1987 in independent India by the Sati Prevention Act, which made it illegal to support, glorify or attempt to commit sati. Support of sati, including coercing or forcing someone to commit sati, can be punished by death sentence or life imprisonment, while glorifying sati is punishable with one to seven years in prison.\n\nEven if they did not commit suicide, Hindu widows were traditionally prohibited from remarrying. The Hindu Widows' Remarriage Act of 1856, enacted in response to the campaign of the reformer Pandit Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, legalized widow remarriage and provided legal safeguards against loss of certain forms of inheritance for remarrying a Hindu widow, though, under the Act, the widow forsook any inheritance due her from her deceased husband. \n\nThe status of widowhood for Hindus was accompanied by a body symbolism:\n\nBut now, these customs are disappearing.\n\nSocial stigma in Joseon Korea required that widows remain unmarried after their husbands death. In 1477, Seongjong of Joseon enacted the Widow Remarriage Law, which strengthened pre-exisiting social constraints by barring the sons of widows who remarried from holding public office. In 1489, Seongjong condemned a woman of the royal clan, Yi Guji, when it was discovered that she had cohabited with her slave after being widowed. More than 40 members of her household were arrested and her lover was tortured to death.\n\n"}
{"id": "1559211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559211", "title": "Wraeththu", "text": "Wraeththu\n\nThe Wraeththu ([ˈɹeɪ.θu] or \"rayth-thoo\") are a science fantasy post-apocalyptic hermaphroditic species which evolved from humanity in the Wraeththu novels, created by British fantasy author Storm Constantine.\n\nWraeththu-themed works by other authors / short story collections of the Wraeththu Mythos\n\n\nThe Wraeththu appeared amid humanity's downfall. Humans viewed them as nothing more than aggravating street gangs recruiting young men and inhabiting cities of North America (always called Megalithica in this story as old \"human\" place names are never used). The Wraeththu, however, are a new species, born from a mutation of unknown origin; Constantine implies an apocalypse, but the history is mysterious. They are destined to take over the mantle of rulers of the Earth. Their bodies fought off the environmental damage wreaked by human war and pollution well - much better than the human population they are swiftly replacing.\n\nThe first Wraeththu \"har\" (pl. \"hara\") infected a human male with his blood and thus transformed the man into Wraeththu. The species spread via a blood-sharing procedure that came to be known as \"inception\". Gangs of hara became tribes, which eventually began a war against humanity that resulted in Wraeththu's supremacy. Many human males and all human females die during inception, with the exception of the rare few which later became the sister race of Wraeththu, the Kamagrian. Late in the story, there are Wraeththu communities where the human community is protected, and human males are incepted after fathering a human child.\n\nWraeththu are true hermaphrodites, possessing both male and female sexual organs and appearing androgynous in general outward appearance. Although they appear superficially as a mix between men and women (no breasts, slim hips, but feminine body structure with no body hair or facial hair), there are numerous physical and mental differences between hara and humans (\"We fight like men, and cry like women\"). One of the biggest differences is in the genitalia and reproductive organs. Unlike humans, all hara have genitals that are simultaneously both male and female (described as \"colorful\" and \"flower-like\" and \"like a sea-anemone\"), able to fold flat and open or retract inwards or protrude, and thus reproduce and experience sex differently. Hara have different bodily processes in other areas too, including more efficient digestion, better regulation of metabolism or perhaps faster metabolism (they cannot grow fat), and better resistance to toxins, including alcohol, drugs, and poisons. Hara also have a much stronger ability to access and manifest magical abilities, such as telepathy, healing, psychokinesis, etc.\n\nOne additional notable characteristic of Wraeththu is their need for regular hermaphrodite sex, known among Wraeththu as \"aruna\". Hara who are deprived of aruna suffer, as their bodies require exchange of essential life essences in order to run properly. Wraeththu even use aruna in magic, performing the ritual of sex magic, \"grissecon\", in which aruna is used to work great acts of healing or the creation of magical weapons.\n\nIn the early years, Wraeththu did not have knowledge of their own ability to reproduce. Hara are able to conceive during an unusual, elevated type of aruna, with conception taking place inside the \"Cauldron of Creation\". The \"harling\" gestates inside a \"pearl\" and is born after a period of about two and a half months. The pearl is a leathery egg where the harling continues to develop for one to two weeks, at which point it hatches. Harlings develop far more rapidly than human children and are fully grown and sexually mature by the age of seven or eight, at which point they undergo Wraeththu puberty, \"feybraiha\", and are introduced to aruna.\n\nAGHAMA - The first Wraeththu, deified as progenitor of all Wraeththukind\n\n\n\n\nWraeththu first appeared in print with \"The Enchantments of Flesh and Spirit\" (1987), followed by the next two \"Wraeththu Chronicles\" books, \"The Bewitchments of Love and Hate\" (1988) and \"The Fulfillments of Fate and Desire\" (1989). The \"Wraeththu Chronicles\" are first person narratives covering an important era in Wraeththu history; the narrators are Pellaz Cevarro (who eventually becomes a kind of king), Swift Parasiel (who grows up to be a tribal leader), and Calanthe (Pellaz' lover). Beginning in 2003, this trilogy of books was re-released in revised editions published by Constantine's publishing firm, Immanion Press. In 2006 \"Enchantments\" appeared in an all-new German language edition, as \"Der Zauber von Fleisch und Geist\", published by German publisher Zauberfeder Verlag.\n\nIn 2004, a new trilogy, the \"Wraeththu Histories\", launched with \"The Wraiths of Will and Pleasure\", followed by \"The Shades of Time and Memory\" (2005) and \"The Ghosts of Blood and Innocence\" (2006). These books continue the original trilogy but have a different tone, with third-person narration, a more complex narrative structure, and more concrete details on Wraeththu's abilities and origins.\n\nWraeththu have also appeared outside the six-book series. In 2003, Immanion Press published the first \"Wraeththu Mythos\" book, \"Breeding Discontent\", written by two fans (Wendy Darling and Bridgette Parker) and edited by Constantine herself. In 2005, Constantine released a new Wraeththu novella called \"The Hienama: A Story of the Sulh\", separate from the storylines of the two trilogies. The book follows the story of a member of the Sulh tribe who seeks a hienama, or Wraeththu shaman, for training, and gets more deeply entangled in his education than he expected. In the summer of 2005, Immanion Press published another Wraeththu Mythos novel, \"Terzah's Sons\" by Victoria Copus. A loose sequel to \"The Hienama\" called \"A Student of Kyme\" written by Constantine was expected out in 2008, along with a lengthy Wraeththu Mythos novel, \"Rosa Mundi\" by Kris Dotto.\n\nWraeththu have also appeared in several of Constantine's short stories, published in magazines or anthologies. Of these short stories, most notable is \"Paragenesis\" describing in poignant details the very beginnings of Wraeththu, featuring Thiede, the first har, his sad infancy, his flight from home and how he discovered love and loss before giving rise to the new race. There is a Wraeththu fan fiction community, which exists primarily online; in 2003 a series of fan-written short stories was self-published by fans in a booklet titled \"Writers of the Storm\".\n\nIn 2005, the German publishing firm Zauberfeder Verlag published \"Wraeththu: The Picture Book\", a full-color album showing off the work of photographer Marja Kettner and a group of German fans who designed costumes, jewellery, and makeup to create a pictorial vision of the world of Wraeththu. Almost all the models are male; many of these same models also participated in the LARP described elsewhere in this article. Information on the book is available in German and in English.\n\nWraeththu are the subject of a role-playing game, \"From Enchantment to Fulfilment\", released in 2005 by Immanion Press . Reviews for the game were overwhelmingly negative .\n\nIn December 2004, a live action role-playing (LARP) game in Germany featured the first-ever Wraeththu LARP group. Information on this event can be found on the Seven Deadly Sins - Wraeththu web site. Later, many of the players appeared in \"Wraeththu: The Picture Book\".\n\nOn July 31 and August 1, 2004, a Wraeththu paintball event was in the USA at Realms of Ruin paintball field, Wilmington, Will County, Illinois (near Chicago).\n\nWraeththu has had a cult following since the late 80s when the series first appeared. The fandom is especially strong among the Goth subculture, although in recent years fans of slash fiction, anime, and manga have also gravitated toward Wraeththu. Constantine not only allows but fully supports fan fiction, to the delight of fans who have written and published many stories online, most of them hosted on the Forever Wraeththu web site.\n\nWraeththu have also inspired fan art, poetry, and several online communities and/or mailing lists. See the list of links at the end of this article.\n\nIn 2003, a convention called Grissecon, held in Stafford, England, was the first-ever Wraeththu fan gathering. Since then additional Grissecon events have been held as part of Lunacon (2004 & 2005), DragonCon (2004) and Feencon (2005).\n\nIn 2005, Constantine released \"Grimoire Dehara: Kaimana\" a non fictional exploration of the Wraeththu spirituality. Heavily based in Paganism and Chaos Magick, the Grimoire became a new \"pop spirituality\" for many of the fans of the Mythos. Combining elements of paganism (Constantine's experience in the Occult is heavily based on Egyptian Mythology) and the Jungian concepts of Anima and Animus (The Secret Marriage of the Psyche), the Grimoire attempts to blend the earth based reverence of the Dehara (gods of the Wraeththu) and Awareness of Self, through visualisation, giving a framework to the Practitioner for the exploration of this spiritual way.\n\nSeveral discussion groups on Yahoo and the community on LiveJournal were utilised for the Grimoire project. In 2007 a community of Spiritual Wraeththu arose inside the virtual world of Second Life using the Grimoire as the basis for their study and practice. This community was officially recognised by Constantine and continues to practice and teach there as of May 2011.\n\nAs of June 2010, work has started on the second book of the Grimoire series, \"Grimoire Dehara: Ulani\", utilizing the same group/community structure as \"Grimoire Dehara: Kaimana\" at Nayati Dehara.\n\nBrad Carpenter was supposed to develop a new sci fi/fantasy series called \"Raythu\", based on the novel series \"The Wraeththu Chronicles\" by Storm Constantine.\n\n\n "}
