{"id": "13542443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13542443", "title": "A4161 road", "text": "A4161 road\n\nThe A4161 is a main road in Cardiff, Wales, United Kingdom. The main purpose of the road is to link the city centre with the M4 motorway in the west at junction 33, and in the east with the A48(M) motorway at St Mellons. \nThe 1923 route of the A48 was the main east-west link in south Wales. The A48 in Cardiff was re-numbered to the A4161 on 19 November 1971 when the Eastern Avenue dual carriageway became the A48. By 2 November 1975, Queen Street was partly pedestrianised and 2 subways were opened under North Road and Boulevard de Nantes to allow the A4161 then to move from Queen Street to Dumfries Place, Stuttgart Strasse, Boulevard De Nantes. The A48 section between Rumney and St Mellons later became the B4487 and Southern Way (A4232) was built in 1978.\n\nFrom east to west:\n\nFrom east to west it runs through the following roads in Cardiff:\n\n\nThe road then follows the A470 from North Road (alongside Cardiff Castle through to Duke Street, before becoming the A4161 again from:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36538030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36538030", "title": "Achávalite", "text": "Achávalite\n\nAchávalite is a selenide mineral that is a member of the nickeline group. It has only been found in a single Argentinian mine system, being first discovered in 1939 in a selenide deposit. The type locality is Cacheuta mine, Sierra de Cacheuta, Mendoza, Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "10140499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10140499", "title": "Algorithm engineering", "text": "Algorithm engineering\n\nAlgorithm engineering focuses on the design, analysis, implementation, optimization, profiling and experimental evaluation of computer algorithms, bridging the gap between algorithm theory and practical applications of algorithms in software engineering.\nIt is a general methodology for algorithmic research.\n\nIn 1995, a report from an NSF-sponsored workshop \"with the purpose of assessing the current goals and directions of the Theory of Computing (TOC) community\" identified the slow speed of adoption of theoretical insights by practitioners as an important issue and suggested measures to\nBut also, promising algorithmic approaches have been neglected due to difficulties in mathematical analysis.\nThe term \"algorithm engineering\" was first used with specificity in 1997, with the first Workshop on Algorithm Engineering (WAE97), organized by Giuseppe F. Italiano.\n\nAlgorithm engineering does not intend to replace or compete with algorithm theory, but tries to enrich, refine and reinforce its formal approaches with experimental algorithmics (also called empirical algorithmics).\n\nThis way it can provide new insights into the efficiency and performance of algorithms in cases where\n\nSome researchers describe algorithm engineering's methodology as a cycle consisting of algorithm design, analysis, implementation and experimental evaluation, joined by further aspects like machine models or realistic inputs.\nThey argue that equating algorithm engineering with experimental algorithmics is too limited, because viewing design and analysis, implementation and experimentation as separate activities ignores the crucial feedback loop between those elements of algorithm engineering.\n\nWhile specific applications are outside the methodology of algorithm engineering, they play an important role in shaping realistic models of the problem and the underlying machine, and supply real inputs and other design parameters for experiments.\n\nCompared to algorithm theory, which usually focuses on the asymptotic behavior of algorithms, algorithm engineers need to keep further requirements in mind: Simplicity of the algorithm, implementability in programming languages on real hardware, and allowing code reuse.\nAdditionally, constant factors of algorithms have such a considerable impact on real-world inputs that sometimes an algorithm with worse asymptotic behavior performs better in practice due to lower constant factors.\n\nSome problems can be solved with heuristics and randomized algorithms in a simpler and more efficient fashion than with deterministic algorithms. Unfortunately, this makes even simple randomized algorithms \"difficult to analyze because there are subtle dependencies to be taken into account\".\n\nHuge semantic gaps between theoretical insights, formulated algorithms, programming languages and hardware pose a challenge to efficient implementations of even simple algorithms, because small implementation details can have rippling effects on execution behavior.\nThe only reliable way to compare several implementations of an algorithm is to spend an considerable amount of time on tuning and profiling, running those algorithms on multiple architectures, and looking at the generated machine code.\n\nSee: Experimental algorithmics\n\nImplementations of algorithms used for experiments differ in significant ways from code usable in applications.\nWhile the former prioritizes fast prototyping, performance and instrumentation for measurements during experiments, the latter requires \"thorough testing, maintainability, simplicity, and tuning for particular classes of inputs\".\n\nStable, well-tested algorithm libraries like LEDA play an important role in technology transfer by speeding up the adoption of new algorithms in applications. \nSuch libraries reduce the required investment and risk for practitioners, because it removes the burden of understanding and implementing the results of academic research.\n\nTwo main conferences on Algorithm Engineering are organized annually, namely:\n\nThe 1997 Workshop on Algorithm Engineering (WAE'97) was held in Venice (Italy) on September 11–13, 1997. The Third International Workshop on Algorithm Engineering (WAE'99) was held in London, UK in July 1999.\nThe first Workshop on Algorithm Engineering and Experimentation (ALENEX99) was held in Baltimore, Maryland on January 15–16, 1999. It was sponsored by DIMACS, the Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science (at Rutgers University), with additional support from SIGACT, the ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory, and SIAM, the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.\n"}
{"id": "4334877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4334877", "title": "Amiga software", "text": "Amiga software\n\nAmiga software is computer software engineered to run on the Amiga personal computer. Amiga software covers many applications, including productivity, digital art, games, commercial, freeware and hobbyist products. The market was active in the late 1980s and early 1990s but then dwindled. Most Amiga products were originally created directly for the Amiga computer (most taking advantage of the platform's unique attributes and capabilities), and were not ported from other platforms.\n\nDuring its lifetime, thousands of applications were produced with over 10,000 utilities (collected into the Aminet repository). However, it was perceived as a games machine from outside its community of experienced and professional users. More than 12,000 games were available. New applications for the three existing Amiga-like operating systems are generally ported from the open source (mainly from Linux) software base.\n\nMany Amiga software products or noteworthy programs during the timeline were ported to other platforms or inspired new programs, such as those aimed at 3D rendering or audio creations, e.g. LightWave 3D, Cinema 4D, and Blender (whose development started for the Amiga platform only). The first multimedia word processors for Amiga, such as TextCraft, Scribble!, Rashumon, and Wordworth, were the first on the market to implement full color WYSIWYG (with other platforms then only implementing black-and-white previews) and allowing the embedding of audio files.\n\nAmiga software started its history with the 1985 Amiga 1000. Commodore International released the programming specifications and development computers to various software houses, prominently Electronic Arts, a software house that then offered Deluxe Paint, Deluxe Music and others. Electronic Arts also developed the Interchange File Format (IFF) file container, to store project files realized by Deluxe Paint and Deluxe Music. IFF became the \"de facto\" standard in AmigaOS. The first to be shown were digitizer software ProPaint (in early beta). Both were used by Andy Warhol to produce a black-and-white photo of Debbie Harry at the Launch Gala at Lincoln Center, New York City in July 1985. In 1985 Commodore licensed the software called Transformer from Simile Research and put it on the market in January 1986, bundled with an external A1020 5.25-inch floppy drive. It emulated 8086 Intel-based PC-XT hardware. It could run MS-DOS and MS-DOS software such as Lotus 123 or WordStar. This provided early access to many applications, while waiting for native Amiga software to be developed. In 1985, Deluxe Paint emerged with graphic features that had been available only on dedicated graphic computers. It was dubbed the first Amiga \"Killer application\".\n\nIn 1986 (the year of the launch of Amiga 2000) Amiga software products contributed to the Amiga's success as a game and multimedia machine. AmigaBasic from Microsoft, VizaWrite, TextCraft (word processors), Pagesetter (Desktop Publishing), Analyze! (Spreadsheet), Superbase Personal (Database), MovieCraft (animation), Deluxe paint II, Deluxe Music, Instant Music (a composition music program for non musicians) from Electronic Arts, and GraphiCraft again from Commodore were released. GraphiCraft was used by computer artist Jim Sachs to produce Amiga software such as \"Defender of the Crown\" and from Cinemaware and the Amiga porting of \"Saucer Attack\". Graphicraft was a predecessor of Aegis Images and AEGIS Animator, one of the first programs worldwide capable of creating animation videos and cartoons complete with audio stereo, featuring a cel animation working paradigm interface and outputting files based on delta-frame difference compression method which then were the lead for creating the ANIM file type standard. Byte-by-Byte Software Inc. released Sculpt-3D. It was the first rendering tool available for the first time to a vast audience of public, and in October of the same year, Impulse released TurboSilver.\n\nIn 1987 the Amiga 500 (A500) was released. The Amiga software market moved in favor of entertainment over professional software.\n\nProWrite (word processor), Maxiplan 500 (spreadsheet), and Aegis Sonix, a music program similar to Instant Music, were produced. .\n\nIn July, Wordperfect created an \"Amiga/Atari Division\" and started selling a version of its word processor for the Commodore platform for US$400. It could load and save Wordperfect files created on any platform, such as IBM, Macintosh and Apple II. Wordperfect 4.1 for the Amiga was the first word processor in the world capable of opening an unlimited number of documents (limited by RAM), each in a separate window.\n\nIn 1987, Andrew Tanenbaum released Minix, a free version of Unix with complete source code.\n\nAt COMDEX NewTek showed for the first time a prototype of Video Toaster and Impulse released TurboSilver 2.0.\n\nIn 1988, Photon Paint was released. It allowed digital painting using HAM graphics mode and the full 4096-color palette of Amiga on a single screen. Maxiplan 500 become Maxiplan 1.x, Electronic Arts showed DeLuxe Photo Lab (photo editing software), Newtek demonstrated DigiView 3.0 hardware and software image digitizing suite, and WordPerfect released the WordPerfect Library for the Amiga. At the summer Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the Pro Draw graphic tablet with mouse emulation software was also announced, as well as Flash-Back and Quarterback hard drive backup software. Superbase Personal became Superbase Professional, Micro Illusions started shipping Music-X audio software for the Amiga, and Lattice released its C++ preprocessor for the Amiga. Cygnus Editor ubiquitous text editor, one of the most versatile text editors and best seller on Amiga since then, was also released this year. It was one of the first Amiga programs featuring an AREXX port. Gold Disk released ComicSetter (comic creation) and MovieSetter (32-color cartoons with stereo sound animation software). In November, at the World of Commodore Show, ReadySoft demonstrated its Amax Macintosh emulator for the Amiga.\n\nIn 1989, Rashumon was first launched. In 1990, AmigaDOS 2.0 was released. The interface of the Workbench GUI was changed to a fake 3D aspect using gray shades. For the first time, Commodore introduced a style guide for developers on AmigaOS; because of this, the majority of Amiga software developed for AmigaDOS 2.0 had a standardized GUI that improved usability. Programs such as Imagine 3D, Lightwave, ImageFX, and Scala continued using non-standard GUIs. AmigaVision was released and bundled free with any model of Amiga 3000. Directory Master, Directory Opus, TurboCalc, Photogenics, ImageFX, PC Task, Photogenics, Caligari, Final Calc, and Cinema 4D all belong to this period.\n\nAfter 1994, Commodore's demise left Amiga to an uncertain future. Windows-based PCs became the standard in the home and the office. Many software houses either left the Amiga market or ran into financial troubles. In 1996, Aminet was created. Aminet was the first centralized Internet repository of all Amiga public domain software and documents. It was the first Internet experiment of a centralized software repository created and maintained by one community for the community itself. Amiga's browsers like AWeb, IBrowse and Voyager were enhanced. Voyager was the first browser to adopt tabbed browsing. Mailers like YAM are still used. In productivity software, programs like Candy Factory for image processing were still being developed, for vfx and animation programs like Wildfire by Andreas Maschke (ported by author to Java later). other prominent graphic software include fxPAINT by IOSpirit, fxSCAN for OCR and scanning by IOSpirit, and SketchBlock painting program by Andy Broad for AmigaOS 4.x. Last but not least Tornado3D raytracing program by the Italian company Eyelight.\n\nAmiga software presents a complete graphical interface, following Amiga WYSIWYG \"desktop paradigm\" and native AmigaOS interface guidelines; that is to say, the software is mouse-driven and presents also pull-down \"menus\" and \"dialogue windows\". AmigaOS maintained a text-based shell allowing software to present a text-based GUI, or a \"command line\".\n\nThe main software categories are\n\nAmiga created productivity software which covers graphics, video, design and CAD software; graphic utilities; vector graphics programs and converters; word processors; programmable text editors; database and spreadsheets; science, entertainment and special use programs: entertainment; fractals, virtual reality, artificial intelligence; route planning; personal Organizer, notebook, diary software; personal budgeting, home banking and accounting.\n\nAmiga created utilities for hard disk partitioning; diagnostic tools; VGA promoting tools for ancient Amiga software with TV resolution graphic screens; game loaders for storing and auto-loading from hard disks, auto-starting non-standard floppy disks; disk copiers; backup and recovery tools, archive and compression utilities; command line interfaces and text-based shells; graphical GUI interfaces with WIMP paradigm; advanced graphics systems; PostScript; fonts; font design; audio system; native, external, widely common used, and third-party filesystems; MultiView; MIME types; USB stacks; Firewire stacks (IEEE 1394); printer drivers; video digitizers; graphic tablets; scanner drivers; genlocks, chroma-key, signal video inverters; infrared devices and remote controls; WiFi and Bluetooth devices; and special devices.\n\nMusic software includes sound design; audio synthesis; music; audio digitizing and sampling; hard disk recording; speech synthesis; audio trackers; MOD music module filetype.\n\nSolutions include modem software, Direct Connect, BBS managing, Fidonet, Packet Radio; Prestel, Videotel, Videotex, Minitel; Teletext, Televideo, Viewdata; FAX, answering machine and voice mail; ISDN; networking and Ethernet protocols; World Wide Web (TCP/IP stacks, browsers, E-mail programs, newsreaders, Internet Radio, proxy server support programs, PPP, Telnet, podcasting, RSS feed, Distributed Net, Google Services, Instant Messaging and chat, FTP and FTP server, weather casting news, Webcam supporting, clock synchronization, SMS Short Messages, Web development and HTTP server, Peer2Peer, VCast (online VCR), YouTube, Flash player, monitoring webpages, Remote Desktop, SSL, SSH, et cetera); communication protocols.\n\n\nIn some European countries, and especially in France, Minitel data transmitting services were popular before the Internet. Minitel had many consumer-level communication services, including chatting, email, railway and broadcast timetables and travel and hotel booking. Minitel used little terminals rented from telephone companies or computers with modems that accept Minitel transmission protocol speed. Amiga Minitel communication programs were written in France, Germany and Italy (Amiga Videotel).\n\nTeletext is an information retrieval service system based on transmitting data with normal TV broadcast signals without interfering with TV programs. Standalone programs for teletext included Amiga Teletext and the Videotex datatype.\n\n\nISDN digital telephone and circuit-switched telephone network system were supported via the expansion cards ISDN Master and ISDN Master II, their drivers and related software.\n\nAmiga supported SANA-II and MNI drivers, Envoy protocols from IAM, AS225, AS225r2 TCP-IP from Commodore, DECnet, Novell NetWare through Amiga Client for Novell NetWare, Quicknet fast proprietary peer to peer procol, Appletalk through emulators. Other network protocols available were AmigaUUCP, DNET, Link-It and Enlan-DFS. Amiga also supports Samba and SMBFS.\n\nPrograms to access the Web are mostly available for newer Amiga platforms.\n\nSkypix is an Amiga communication protocol. It was one of the first interactive online graphics-and-sound protocols. It was introduced in 1987 as part of the Skyline (Atredes) bulletin board system (BBS), running on the Skyline BBS and Skyterm terminal. Years before the World Wide Web, Skypix allowed rich interactive graphics and sound, as well as mouse control, to be a part of the online experience, which was until then limited to text and ANSI graphics. Skypix allowed users to write and integrate graphical programs, and included the first \"authoring program\", Skypaint. Skypix created enthusiastic game and online application writers years before the World Wide Web made such features a common part of the online experience. It was quickly abandoned as more advanced markup languages for BBS became available and due to the emerging of Internet phenomenon that marginalized the BBS system of communication.\n\nDespite the variety of programming languages and compilers, most development was done using C and C++, 680x0 assembler and various Basic dialects.\n\n\n\nAlternative filesystems included AsimCDFS, AmiCDROM, CDVDFS, Allegro CDFS and CacheCDFS.\n\nBurnIt!, Frying Pan, MakeCD, AmiDVD, DVDRecord, DVDAuthor could burn CDs, DVDs and/or Blu-ray media.\n\nMakeCD was the first Amiga program to support Disk At Once (DAO). Frying Pan was the first Amiga program capable to create DVDs. Frying Pan and BurnIt! are capable to handle DVD.\n\nBlueHD from German programmer Carsten Siegner is a MorphOS program capable of authoring and burning HD-DVDs in these formats:\n\n\n\"AmiDock\" creates application launching docks on the desktop. It became popular in 1989–1990, due to the NeXT computer, that used the same 68030 processor as Amiga 3000) and that it also had the Acorn Archimedes RISC OS docking station utility. In Great Britain, Archimedes computers were adopted in schools. Young Amiga users (there were 1,500,000 Amigas sold in the United Kingdom) spotted docks on Archimedes at school and asked for it on Amiga also. Various launch bars or docking utilities were born as third-party hobby utilities (many examples of early docking software for Amiga like the \"ToolManager\" are still hosted in the Aminet repository of all Amiga free software, in the \"Utility\" directory) and then Amidock was officially integrated in AmigaOS with version 3.9.\n\n\"Directory Opus\" was a file utility program. When this software was released, Amiga magazines proclaimed that it was the most important software ever released for the Amiga and \"should be built into the operating system\". Directory Opus went on to create a \"replacement OS\" for Workbench which overlaid itself upon the system. It started as a file manager, and then became a complete desktop replacement and an alternative to the official Workbench. The utility was later ported to Windows and remains widely used.\n\nHyperCache was the first commercial disk caching software. Significant in that the base operating system lacked this ability, the addition of caching significantly improved the performance of both floppy and hard discs.\n\n\"SysSpeed\" was a shareware benchmarking program for Amigas equipped with Motorola 68k and PowerPC CPUs.\n\nMuch shareware and free software was written for the Amiga and could be obtained via the Fred Fish disk series or from the Aminet software archive.\n\nBecause the custom chipset shares RAM (and therefore the memory bus) with the CPU, throughput increases measurably if the display is disabled. Some processor-intensive software, such as 3D renderers, disable the display during calculation to gain speed.\n\nNotable emulators included:\n\nMedusa (Atari ST emulator), Fusion (Macintosh Emulator), AMax and AMax II, (Macintosh), GO64 (first Commodore C64 emulator), Transformer and PCTask (it was an Intel 8088 emulator, all software based, capable to emulate Intel PC based platforms ranging from PC XT 4,7 and 7 MHz on Amiga 500, up to 80486 running at 12 MHz on Amiga 4000 and other accelerated Amigas), A64 Package (C64), Amiga BBC Emulator (Acorn BBC emulator)\n\nAtari ST Emulator (AtariST), Hatari (Atari ST and STE), Basilisk II (Macintosh) classic, Frodo (C64), PSXE (Sony PlayStation), Hu-Go! (PC Engine, TurboGrafx-16), FunnyMu (Creativision, Funvision, Wizzard), AmiArcadia (Arcadia 2001 and VC 4000, TVGC).\n\nVICE emulator is modular and emulates all 8-bit machines made by Commodore: C64 (a patch of VICE supports C64dtv), C128, PET including CBM II version (but excluding \"non-standard\" features of SuperPET 9000), Plus4 and VIC-20.\n\nThousands of games were produced. At the time it was common for games to be produced for multiple formats. Since the Amiga hardware was the most advanced, games were usually developed on an Amiga, and the Amiga version would be the \"gold standard\" of the bunch.\n\nThe Amiga was a focal point for the \"demo scene\". The Amiga thrived on public domain, freeware and other not-for-profit development. The demo scene spearheaded development in multimedia programming techniques for the Amiga, such that it was \"de rigueur\" for the latest visual tricks, soundtrackers and 3D algorithms from the demo scene to end up being used in computer game development.\n\nBecause Amiga was one of the first game-oriented computers to feature a built-in floppy disk drive, it simplified software piracy. Many of the arguments pertaining to software copying, intellectual property rights in software, the open-source movement by the early 1990s. It was not unusual for demo groups to be openly involved in software piracy.\n\nAnti-piracy measures included the practice of distributing software on disks that contained secret \"keys\" on high-numbered tracks that were officially unused. The Amiga disk drive officially supported tracks 0–79 from a double-density disk, but could actually read tracks 80 through 82. Standard disk-imaging software ignored these tracks, so that a duplicate of a boxed disk would not contain the key and the software would not work. A similar technique involved writing to normally-unused sectors of the disk. Copy software called \"nibble\" copiers appeared that could exactly reproduce such disks.\n\nPublishers turned to other methods. Hardware dongles were occasionally used for high-end software. AmigaHASP protected Rashumon and was sold by HarmonySoft to Aladdin Systems. Some software manufacturers asked users to type a word from a particular page number and line number of the manual, meaning that successfully copying software included photocopying a large quantity of text. Sometimes the text was designed so that photocopiers would produce illegible copies, meaning that pirates had to manually add the text.\n\nPirates responded with \"cracking\" software that altered the code to bypass copy protection completely. Every protection scheme was eventually broken. One near exception was the scheme on \"Dragon's Lair\", which became the \"holy grail\" of crackers worldwide, but it was also broken.\n\nThe Amiga's floppy disk drive allowed 880 kilobytes on a single disk, comparable to the RAM of most Amigas (512 kilobytes to 1 megabyte). To increase capacity, Amiga used data compression. The disk drive had a slow transfer rate, such that using processor-based decompression could actually reduce loading times versus loading uncompressed data. Early implementations wrote to a video display register, causing it to break into multiple segments of colorful noise, which would become finer as the decrunching continued. This effect was psychedelic and very easy to implement, so it stuck; it was pioneered on the Commodore 64.\n\nTransADF is a program that transfers the contents of a floppy disk or a similar block device to a file. This program can compress the disk image using the popular deflate algorithm, as utilized by PKZip and gzip, amongst others.\n\n"}
{"id": "16489873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16489873", "title": "Atka Glacier", "text": "Atka Glacier\n\nAtka Glacier () is the glacier immediately east of Flagship Mountain, draining north into Fry Glacier in Victoria Land. It was discovered and named in 1957 by the New Zealand Northern Survey Party of the Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition, 1956–58, and named after USS \"Atka\", an American icebreaker in the convoy to McMurdo Sound in the 1956–57 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "29732232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29732232", "title": "Bancroft point", "text": "Bancroft point\n\nA Bancroft point is the temperature where an azeotrope occurs in a binary system. Although vapor liquid azeotropy is impossible for binary systems which are rigorously described by Raoult's law, for real systems, azeotropy is inevitable at temperatures where the saturation vapor pressure of the components are equal. Such a temperature is called a Bancroft point. However, not all binary systems exhibit such a point. Also, a Bancroft point must lie in the valid temperature ranges of the Antoine equation.\n\nBancroft point is named after Wilder Dwight Bancroft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22072718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22072718", "title": "Biological network", "text": "Biological network\n\nA biological network is any network that applies to biological systems. A network is any system with sub-units that are linked into a whole, such as species units linked into a whole food web. Biological networks provide a mathematical representation of connections found in ecological, evolutionary, and physiological studies, such as neural networks. The analysis of biological networks with respect to human diseases has led to the field of network medicine.\n\nComplex biological systems may be represented and analyzed as computable networks. For example, ecosystems can be modeled as networks of interacting species or a protein can be modeled as a network of amino acids. Breaking a protein down farther, amino acids can be represented as a network of connected atoms, such as carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. Nodes and edges are the basic components of a network. Nodes represent units in the network, while edges represent the interactions between the units. Nodes can represent a wide-array of biological units, from individual organisms to individual neurons in the brain. Two important properties of a network are degree and betweenness centrality. Degree (or connectivity, a distinct usage from that used in graph theory) is the number of edges that connect a node, while betweenness is a measure of how central a node is in a network. Nodes with high betweenness essentially serve as bridges between different portions of the network (i.e. interactions must pass through this node to reach other portions of the network). In social networks, nodes with high degree or high betweenness may play important roles in the overall composition of a network.\n\nAs early as the 1980s, researchers started viewing DNA or genomes as the dynamic storage of a language system with precise computable finite states represented as a finite state machine. Recent complex systems research has also suggested some far-reaching commonality in the organization of information in problems from biology, computer science, and physics, such as the Bose–Einstein condensate (a special state of matter).\n\nBioinformatics has increasingly shifted its focus from individual genes, proteins, and search algorithms to large-scale networks often denoted as -omes such as biome, interactome, genome and proteome. Such theoretical studies have revealed that biological networks share many features with other networks such as the Internet or social networks, e.g. their network topology.\n\nMany protein–protein interactions (PPIs) in a cell form \"protein interaction networks\" (PINs) where proteins are \"nodes\" and their interactions are \"edges\". PINs are the most intensely analyzed networks in biology. There are dozens of PPI detection methods to identify such interactions. The yeast two-hybrid system is a commonly used experimental technique for the study of binary interactions.\n\nRecent studies have indicated conservation of molecular networks through deep evolutionary time. Moreover, it has been discovered that proteins with high degrees of connectedness are more likely to be essential for survival than proteins with lesser degrees. This suggests that the overall composition of the network (not simply interactions between protein pairs) is important for the overall functioning of an organism.\n\nThe activity of genes is regulated by transcription factors, proteins that typically bind to DNA. Most transcription factors bind to multiple binding sites in a genome. As a result, all cells have complex gene regulatory networks. For instance, the human genome encodes on the order of 1,400 DNA-binding transcription factors that regulate the expression of more than 20,000 human genes. Technologies to study gene regulatory networks include ChIP-chip, ChIP-seq, CliP-seq, and others.\n\nGene co-expression networks can be interpreted as association networks between variables that measure transcript abundances. These networks have been used to provide a systems biologic analysis of DNA microarray data, RNA-seq data, miRNA data etc.\nweighted gene co-expression network analysis is widely used to identify co-expression modules and intramodular hub genes. Co-expression modules may correspond to cell types or pathways. Highly connected intramodular hubs can be interpreted as representatives of their respective module.\n\nThe chemical compounds of a living cell are connected by biochemical reactions which convert one compound into another. The reactions are catalyzed by enzymes. Thus, all compounds in a cell are parts of an intricate biochemical network of reactions which is called metabolic network. It is possible to use network analyses to infer how selection acts on metabolic pathways.\n\nSignals are transduced within cells or in between cells and thus form complex signaling networks. For instance, in the MAPK/ERK pathway is transduced from the cell surface to the cell nucleus by a series of protein–protein interactions, phosphorylation reactions, and other events. Signaling networks typically integrate protein–protein interaction networks, gene regulatory networks, and metabolic networks.\n\nThe complex interactions in the brain make it a perfect candidate to apply network theory. Neurons in the brain are deeply connected with one another and this results in complex networks being present in the structural and functional aspects of the brain. For instance, small-world network properties have been demonstrated in connections between cortical areas of the primate brain or during swallowing in humans. This suggests that cortical areas of the brain are not directly interacting with each other, but most areas can be reached from all others through only a few interactions.\n\nAll organisms are connected to each other through feeding interactions. That is, if a species eats or is eaten by another species, they are connected in an intricate food web of predator and prey interactions. The stability of these interactions has been a long-standing question in ecology. That is to say, if certain individuals are removed, what happens to the network (i.e. does it collapse or adapt)? Network analysis can be used to explore food web stability and determine if certain network properties result in more stable networks. Moreover, network analysis can be used to determine how selective removals of species will influence the food web as a whole. This is especially important considering the potential species loss due to global climate change.\n\nIn biology, pairwise interactions have historically been the focus of intense study. With the recent advances in network science, it has become possible to scale up pairwise interactions to include individuals of many species involved in many sets of interactions to understand the structure and function of larger ecological networks. The use of network analysis can allow for both the discovery and understanding how these complex interactions link together within the system’s network, a property which has previously been overlooked. This powerful tool allows for the study of various types of interactions (from competitive to cooperative) using the same general framework. For example, plant-pollinator interactions are mutually beneficial and often involve many different species of pollinators as well as many different species of plants. These interactions are critical to plant reproduction and thus the accumulation of resources at the base of the food chain for primary consumers, yet these interaction networks are threatened by anthropogenic change. The use of network analysis can illuminate how pollination networks work and may in turn inform conservation efforts. Within pollination networks, nestedness (i.e., specialists interact with a subset of species that generalists interact with), redundancy (i.e., most plants are pollinated by many pollinators), and modularity play a large role in network stability. These network properties may actually work to slow the spread of disturbance effects through the system and potentially buffer the pollination network from anthropogenic changes somewhat. More generally, the structure of species interactions within an ecological network can tell us something about the diversity, richness, and robustness of the network. Researchers can even compare current constructions of species interactions networks with historical reconstructions of ancient networks to determine how networks have changed over time. Recent research into these complex species interactions networks is highly concerned with understanding what factors (e.g., diversity) lead to network stability.\n\nNetwork analysis provides the ability to quantify associations between individuals, which makes it possible to infer details about the network as a whole at the species and/or population level. Researchers interested in animal behavior across a multitude of taxa, from insects to primates, are starting to incorporate network analysis into their research. Researchers interested in social insects (e.g., ants and bees) have used network analyses to better understand division of labor, task allocation, and foraging optimization within colonies; Other researchers are interested in how certain network properties at the group and/or population level can explain individual level behaviors. For instance, a study on wire-tailed manakins (a small passerine bird) found that a male’s degree in the network largely predicted the ability of the male to rise in the social hierarchy (i.e. eventually obtain a territory and matings). In bottlenose dolphin groups, an individual’s degree and betweenness centrality values may predict whether or not that individual will exhibit certain behaviors, like the use of side flopping and upside-down lobtailing to lead group traveling efforts; individuals with high betweenness values are more connected and can obtain more information, and thus are better suited to lead group travel and therefore tend to exhibit these signaling behaviors more than other group members. \n\nNetwork analysis can also be used to describe the social organization within a species more generally, which frequently reveals important proximate mechanisms promoting the use of certain behavioral strategies. These descriptions are frequently linked to ecological properties (e.g., resource distribution). For example, network analyses revealed subtle differences in the group dynamics of two related equid fission-fusion species, Grevy’s zebra and onagers, living in variable environments; Grevy’s zebras show distinct preferences in their association choices when they fission into smaller groups, whereas onagers do not. Similarly, researchers interested in primates have also utilized network analyses to compare social organizations across the diverse primate order, suggesting that using network measures (such as centrality, assortativity, modularity, and betweenness) may be useful in terms of explaining the types of social behaviors we see within certain groups and not others. \n\nFinally, social network analysis can also reveal important fluctuations in animal behaviors across changing environments. For example, network analyses in female chacma baboons (\"Papio hamadryas ursinus\") revealed important dynamic changes across seasons which were previously unknown; instead of creating stable, long-lasting social bonds with friends, baboons were found to exhibit more variable relationships which were dependent on short-term contingencies related to group level dynamics as well as environmental variability. Changes in an individual's social network environment can also influence characteristics such as 'personality': for example, social spiders that huddle with bolder neighbours tend to increase also in boldness. This is a very small set of broad examples of how researchers can use network analysis to study animal behavior. Research in this area is currently expanding very rapidly. Social network analysis is a valuable tool for studying animal behavior across all animal species, and has the potential to uncover new information about animal behavior and social ecology that was previously poorly understood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26708620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26708620", "title": "Biosocial criminology", "text": "Biosocial criminology\n\nBiosocial criminology is an interdisciplinary field that aims to explain crime and antisocial behavior by exploring both biological factors and environmental factors. While contemporary criminology has been dominated by sociological theories, biosocial criminology also recognizes the potential contributions of fields such as genetics, neuropsychology, and evolutionary psychology.\n\nEnvironment has a significant effect on genetic expression. Disadvantaged environments enhance antisocial gene expression, suppress prosocial gene action and prevent the realization of genetic potential.\n\nOne approach to studying the role of genetics for crime is to calculate the heritability coefficient, which describes the proportion of the variance that is due to actualized genetic effects for some trait in a given population in a specific environment at a specific time. The heritability coefficient for antisocial behavior is estimated to be between 0.40 and 0.58.\n\nThe methodology often used in biosocial criminology (that of twin studies) has been criticized for producing inflated heritability estimates, though biosocial criminologists maintain that these criticisms are baseless. Criminal justice researchers Brian Boutwell and J.C. Barnes argue that many sociological studies that do not control for genetic inheritance of risk factors have misleading or unreliable results.\n\nAnother approach is to examine the relationship between neurophysiology and criminality. One example is that measured levels of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine have been associated with criminal behavior. Another is that neuroimaging studies give strong evidence that both brain structure and function are involved in criminal behaviors. The limbic system creates emotions such as anger and jealousy that ultimately may cause criminal behavior. The prefrontal cortex is involved in delaying gratification and impulse control and moderates the impulses from the limbic system. If this balance is shifted in favor of the limbic system this may contribute to criminal behavior. Terrie Moffitt's developmental theory of crime argues that \"life-course-persistent offenders\" make up only 6% of the population but commits more than 50% of all crimes and that this is due to a combination neurophysiological deficits and an adverse environment that creates a criminal path that is very difficult to break once started.\n\nMen can potentially have many children with little effort; women only a few with great effort. One argued consequence of this is that males are more aggressive, and more violently aggressive, than females, since they face higher reproductive competition from their own sex than females. In particular, low-status males may be more likely to remain completely childless. Under such circumstances, it may have been evolutionarily useful to take very high risks and use violent aggression in order to try to increase status and reproductive success rather than become genetically extinct. This may explain why males have higher crime rates than females and why low status and being unmarried is associated with criminality. It may also explain why the degree of income inequality of a society is a better predictor than the absolute income level of the society for male-male homicides; income inequality creates social disparity, while differing average income levels may not do so. Furthermore, competition over females is argued to have been particularly intensive in late adolescence and young adulthood, which is theorized to explain why crime rates are particularly high during this period.\n\nThe \"evolutionary neuroandrogenic theory\" focuses on the hormone testosterone as a factor influencing aggression and criminality and being beneficial during certain forms of competition. In most species, males are more aggressive than females. Castration of males usually has a pacifying effect on aggressive behavior in males. In humans, males engage in crime and especially violent crime more than females. The involvement in crime usually rises in the early teens to mid teens in correlation with the rise of testosterone levels. Research on the relationship between testosterone and aggression is difficult since the only reliable measurement of brain testosterone is by lumbar puncture, which is not done for research purposes. Studies therefore have often instead used less reliable measurements from blood or saliva. Some studies support a link between adult criminality and testosterone, although the relationship is modest if examined separately for each sex. A significant link between juvenile delinquency and testosterone levels has not been established. Some studies have also found testosterone to be associated with behaviors or personality traits linked with criminality such as antisocial behavior and alcoholism. Many studies have also been done on the relationship between more general aggressive behavior/feelings and testosterone. About half the studies have found a relationship and about half no relationship.\n\nMany conflicts causing homicides involve status conflicts, protecting reputation, and seemingly trivial insults. Steven Pinker in his book \"The Blank Slate\" argues that in non-state societies without a police it was very important to have a credible deterrence against aggression. Therefore, it was important to have a reputation for retaliation, causing humans to develop instincts for revenge as well as for protecting reputation (\"honor\"). Pinker argues that the development of the state and the police have dramatically reduced the level of violence compared to the ancestral environment. Whenever the state breaks down, which can be very locally such as in poor areas of a city, humans again organize in groups for protection and aggression and concepts such as violent revenge and protecting honor again become extremely important.\n\nSome cultures place greater emphasis on protecting honor than other cultures. One explanation is that protecting honor was in the ancestral past relatively more important for herders than for farmers. The livestock of herders were easily and quickly stolen. As a result, it was important to constantly show toughness as a deterrence, which may cause a higher level of violence. The predictions of the theory was confirmed in a cross-cultural examination of traditional farming and herding Spanish-American societies. However, the prediction that sedentary fishing societies would place a low emphasis on honor was not confirmed.\n\nThe degree of cultural collectivism is strongly associated with the burden of infectious disease. It has been argued that this is due to collectivism and associated characteristics such as out-group avoidance limiting the spread of infectious diseases. Other characteristics such as strong in-group–out-group bias and willingness to defend the ingroup's honor may promote violence. A study found strong associations between several forms of violent criminal behavior and both infectious disease rates across U.S states and degree of cultural collectivism across U.S. states. The associations remained strong after controlling for income inequality.\n\nEvolutionary psychology researchers have proposed several evolutionary explanations for psychopathy. One is that psychopathy represents a frequency-dependent, socially parasitic strategy. This may benefit the psychopath as long as there are few other psychopaths in the community since more psychopaths means increasing the risk of encountering another psychopath as well as non-psychopaths likely adapting more countermeasures against cheaters.\n\nSociobiological theories of rape are theories that explore to what degree, if any, evolutionary adaptations influence the psychology of rapists. Such theories are highly controversial, as traditional theories typically do not consider rape to be a behavioral adaptation. Some object to such theories on ethical, religious, political, as well as scientific grounds. Others argue that a correct knowledge of the causes of rape is necessary in order to develop effective preventive measures.\n\nThe Cinderella effect is the alleged higher rate of stepchildren being abused by stepparents as compared to genetic parents, observed in some, but not all, studies. An explanation of this affect has been attempted by application of evolutionary psychology theories. There have also been various criticisms of these theories.\n\nInfanticide is one of the few forms of violence more often done by women than men. Cross-cultural research has found that this is more likely to occur when the child has deformities or illnesses as well as when there are lacking resources due to factors such as poverty, other children requiring resources, and no male support. Such a child may have a low chance of reproductive success, in which case it would decrease the mother's inclusive fitness to spend resources on the child, in particular since women generally have a greater parental investment than men.\n\nPunishment of exploitative behaviors harmful to the group was likely a recurring problem in the ancestral environment. As such humans are argued to have developed a range of psychological mechanisms for handling this. Punishment can be a deterrent to undesired behaviors but excessive punishment can also be harmful to the group. Thus, human are argued to favor a proportional response based on how severe the offence is. Cross-cultural research have a found a high agreement regarding how relatively harmful different crimes are perceived to be. On the other hand, evolutionary novel factors that may be rational to consider from a deterrent perspective, such as how difficult it is for the modern police to detect the crime, do not seem to affect people's perceptions of appropriate punishments.\n\nOnce a crime's severity has been judged, there is a choice regarding how to respond. In some cases in the ancestral environment there may have been benefits from future interactions with the offender which some forms of punishment may have prevented as compared to responses such as reparations or rehabilitation. Research suggests that individuals may modify what they think are appropriate forms of response to offenders based on factors that once in the past small-group environment may have indicated that they could personally benefit from continued interactions with the offender such as kinship, in-group or out-group membership, possession of resources, sexual attractiveness, expressed remorse, intentionality, and prior history of cooperation and exploitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30471415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30471415", "title": "Bousso's holographic bound", "text": "Bousso's holographic bound\n\nA simple generalization of the black hole entropy bound (cf. holographic principle) to generic systems is that, in quantum gravity, the maximum entropy which can be enclosed by a spatial boundary is given by a quarter of its surface area. However, as a general rule, this simple generalization appears to be false, because the spatial boundary can be taken to be within the event horizon of a black hole. It also fails in cosmological models.\n\nRaphael Bousso came up with a modification that the spatial boundary should not be a trapped surface. This led him to come up with Bousso's holographic bound, also known as the covariant entropy bound. Basically, a spatial boundary is valid if, when one considers both null (or light) sheets orthogonal to its tangent space, the expansion factors both point in the same direction. This defines inside and outside. The entropy crossing either (past or future) of the inner or non-expanding null surface (light sheet) is bounded by one quarter of the surface area of the interior region.\n"}
{"id": "41318434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41318434", "title": "Cavitation (elastomers)", "text": "Cavitation (elastomers)\n\nCavitation is the unstable unhindered expansion of a microscopic void in a solid elastomer under the action of tensile hydrostatic stresses. This can occur whenever the hydrostatic tension exceeds 5/6 of Young's modulus.\n\nThe cavitation phenomenon may manifest in any of the following situations:\n"}
{"id": "3027717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3027717", "title": "Certified check", "text": "Certified check\n\nA certified check or certified cheque is a form of cheque for which the bank verifies that sufficient funds exist in the account to cover the cheque, and so certifies, at the time the cheque is written. Those funds are then set aside in the bank's internal account until the cheque is cashed or returned by the payee. Thus, a certified cheque cannot be stopped (can't \"bounce\"), and, in this manner, its liquidity is similar to cash, barring bank failure or illegal act (such as the funds being based on a fraudulent loan, at which point the cheque will be disavowed).\n\nIn some countries, e.g. Germany, it is illegal for a regular bank to certify checks. This regulation is supposed to prevent certified cheques from becoming a universal substitute for cash, which is considered the only legal tender. The Deutsche Bundesbank (Federal Bank) is the only financial institution authorized to issue certified checks.\n\nBecause of the liquidity and certainty of payment of a certified cheque, it is sometimes considered equivalent to cash, such as in the regulation of credit for casino gaming in Macau, where the law explicitly states that if a casino patron obtains casino chips and pays with a certified cheque, the transaction is not regarded as credit for gaming (see Law 5/2004, art. 2).\n\nIt is possible to counterfeit or forge a certified cheque, in which case it is not binding on the bank and is worthless; see cashier's check for an exploration of associated risks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1563306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1563306", "title": "Computational intelligence", "text": "Computational intelligence\n\nThe expression computational intelligence (CI) usually refers to the ability of a computer to learn a specific task from data or experimental observation. Even though it is commonly considered a synonym of soft computing, there is still no commonly accepted definition of computational intelligence.\n\nGenerally, computational intelligence is a set of nature-inspired computational methodologies and approaches to address complex real-world problems to which mathematical or traditional modelling can be useless for a few reasons: the processes might be too complex for mathematical reasoning, it might contain some uncertainties during the process, or the process might simply be stochastic in nature. Indeed, many real-life problems cannot be translated into binary language (unique values of 0 and 1) for computers to process it. Computational Intelligence therefore provides solutions for such problems.\n\nThe methods used are close to the human's way of reasoning, i.e. it uses inexact and incomplete knowledge, and it is able to produce control actions in an adaptive way. CI therefore uses a combination of five main complementary techniques. The fuzzy logic which enables the computer to understand natural language, artificial neural networks which permits the system to learn experiential data by operating like the biological one, evolutionary computing, which is based on the process of natural selection, learning theory, and probabilistic methods which helps dealing with uncertainty imprecision.\n\nExcept those main principles, currently popular approaches include biologically inspired algorithms such as swarm intelligence and artificial immune systems, which can be seen as a part of evolutionary computation, image processing, data mining, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence, which tends to be confused with Computational Intelligence. But although both Computational Intelligence (CI) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) seek similar goals, there's a clear distinction between them.\n\nComputational Intelligence is thus a way of performing like human beings. Indeed, the characteristic of \"intelligence\" is usually attributed to humans. More recently, many products and items also claim to be \"intelligent\", an attribute which is directly linked to the reasoning and decision making.\n\nThe notion of Computational Intelligence was first used by the IEEE Neural Networks Council in 1990. This Council was founded in the 1980s by a group of researchers interested in the development of biological and artificial neural networks. On November 21, 2001, the IEEE Neural Networks Council became the IEEE Neural Networks Society, to become the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society two years later by including new areas of interest such as fuzzy systems and evolutionary computation, which they related to Computational Intelligence in 2011 (Dote and Ovaska).\n\nBut the first clear definition of Computational Intelligence was introduced by Bezdek in 1994: a system is called computationally intelligent if it deals with low-level data such as numerical data, has a pattern-recognition component and does not use knowledge in the AI sense, and additionally when it begins to exhibit computational adaptively, fault tolerance, speed approaching human-like turnaround and error rates that approximate human performance.\n\nBezdek and Marks (1993) clearly differentiated CI from AI, by arguing that the first one is based on soft computing methods, whereas AI is based on hard computing ones.\n\nAlthough Artificial Intelligence and Computational Intelligence seek a similar long-term goal: reach general intelligence, which is the intelligence of a machine that could perform any intellectual task that a human being can; there's a clear difference between them. According to Bezdek (1994), Computational Intelligence is a subset of Artificial Intelligence.\n\nThere are two types of machine intelligence: the artificial one based on hard computing techniques and the computational one based on soft computing methods, which enable adaptation to many situations.\n\nHard computing techniques work following binary logic based on only two values (the Booleans true or false, 0 or 1) on which modern computers are based. One problem with this logic is that our natural language cannot always be translated easily into absolute terms of 0 and 1. Soft computing techniques, based on fuzzy logic can be useful here. Much closer to the way the human brain works by aggregating data to partial truths (Crisp/fuzzy systems), this logic is one of the main exclusive aspects of CI.\n\nWithin the same principles of fuzzy and binary \"logics\" follow crispy and fuzzy \"systems\". Crisp logic is a part of artificial intelligence principles and consists of either including an element in a set, or not, whereas fuzzy systems (CI) enable elements to be partially in a set. Following this logic, each element can be given a degree of membership (from 0 to 1) and not exclusively one of these 2 values.\n\nThe main applications of Computational Intelligence include computer science, engineering, data analysis and bio-medicine.\n\nAs explained before, fuzzy logic, one of CI's main principles, consists in measurements and process modelling made for real life's complex processes. It can face incompleteness, and most importantly ignorance of data in a process model, contrarily to Artificial Intelligence, which requires exact knowledge.\n\nThis technique tends to apply to a wide range of domains such as control, image processing and decision making. But it is also well introduced in the field of household appliances with washing machines, microwave ovens, etc. We can face it too when using a video camera, where it helps stabilizing the image while holding the camera unsteadily. Other areas such as medical diagnostics, foreign exchange trading and business strategy selection are apart from this principle's numbers of applications.\n\nFuzzy logic is mainly useful for approximate reasoning, and doesn't have learning abilities, a qualification much needed that human beings have. It enables them to improve themselves by learning from their previous mistakes.\n\nThis is why CI experts work on the development of artificial neural networks based on the biological ones, which can be defined by 3 main components: the cell-body which processes the information, the axon, which is a device enabling the signal conducting, and the synapse, which controls signals. Therefore, artificial neural networks are doted of distributed information processing systems, enabling the process and the learning from experiential data. Working like human beings, fault tolerance is also one of the main assets of this principle.\n\nConcerning its applications, neural networks can be classified into five groups: data analysis and classification, associative memory, clustering generation of patterns and control. Generally, this method aims to analyze and classify medical data, proceed to face and fraud detection, and most importantly deal with nonlinearities of a system in order to control it. Furthermore, neural networks techniques share with the fuzzy logic ones the advantage of enabling data clustering.\n\nBased on the process of natural selection firstly introduced by Charles Robert Darwin, the evolutionary computation consists in capitalizing on the strength of natural evolution to bring up new artificial evolutionary methodologies. It also includes other areas such as evolution strategy, and evolutionary algorithms which are seen as problem solvers... This principle's main applications cover areas such as optimization and multi-objective optimization, to which traditional mathematical one techniques aren't enough anymore to apply to a wide range of problems such as DNA Analysis, scheduling problems...\n\nStill looking for a way of \"reasoning\" close to the humans' one, learning theory is one of the main approaches of CI. In psychology, learning is the process of bringing together cognitive, emotional and environmental effects and experiences to acquire, enhance or change knowledge, skills, values and world views (Ormrod, 1995; Illeris, 2004). Learning theories then helps understanding how these effects and experiences are processed, and then helps making predictions based on previous experience.\n\nBeing one of the main elements of fuzzy logic, probabilistic methods firstly introduced by Paul Erdos and Joel Spencer (1974), aim to evaluate the outcomes of a Computation Intelligent system, mostly defined by randomness. Therefore, probabilistic methods bring out the possible solutions to a reasoning problem, based on prior knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6642900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6642900", "title": "Critical ethnography", "text": "Critical ethnography\n\nCritical ethnography applies a critical theory based approach to ethnography. It focuses on the implicit values expressed within ethnographic studies and, therefore, on the unacknowledged biases that may result from such implicit values. It has been called critical theory in practice. of critical theory, this approach seeks to determine symbolic mechanisms, to extract ideology from action, and to understand the cognition and behaviour of research subjects within historical, cultural, and social frameworks.\n\nCritical ethnography incorporates reflexive inquiry into its methodology. Researchers employing this approach position themselves as being intrinsically linked to those being studied and thus inseparable from their context. In addition to speaking on behalf of subjects, critical ethnographers will also attempt to recognize and articulate their own perspective as a means of acknowledging the biases that their own limitations, histories, and institutional standpoints bear on their work. Further, critical ethnography is inherently political as well as pedagogical in its approach. There is no attempt to be purely detached and scientifically objective in reporting and analysis. In contrast to conventional ethnography which describes what is, critical ethnography also asks what could be in order to disrupt tacit power relationships and perceived social inequalities.\n\nCritical ethnography stems from both anthropology and the Chicago school of sociology. Following the movements for civil rights of the 1960s and 1970s some ethnographers became more politically active and experimented in various ways to incorporate emancipatory political projects into their research. For example, some ethnographers with political agendas for change chose to conduct fieldwork in unconventional environments such as modern workplaces that were not necessarily considered exotic, as previous anthropologists had typically done. Other ethnographers consciously attempted to conduct research on so-called deviant or suppressed groups from outside the paradigm of hegemonic cultural positionings to provide new avenues for dissent and dialogue on societal transformation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15589521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15589521", "title": "Deepak Tripathi", "text": "Deepak Tripathi\n\nDeepak Tripathi, PhD, FRHistS, FRAS (born 1951) is a British historian with particular reference to South Asia, the Middle East, the Cold War and the United States in the post-Soviet world.\n\nTripathi was born into a political family in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, India. His grandfather, Pandit Vishwambhar Dayal Tripathi, was a prominent leader in India's independence movement, Member of the Constituent Assembly, and later of the Indian Parliament. His father, Krishna Dev Tripathi, was also a parliamentarian and an academic.\n\nAfter a year at Aligarh Muslim University, Tripathi graduated from Christian College, Indore in 1973 with a BA in Politics, Economics, Sociology and English. He then did a year of graduate study at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi.\n\nFrom 1974, Tripathi worked for the Voice of America in Washington, D.C. for 3 years.\n\nIn 1977, Tripathi worked with the BBC as a South Asia correspondent, BBC News producer, and editor for the World Service Radio News. He was Afghanistan correspondent in the early 1990s in Kabul. He has reported from Sri Lanka, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Syria.\n\nIn 2002, Tripathi completed a Post-Graduate Diploma in Business Administration from Edinburgh Business School of Heriot-Watt University, Scotland.\n\nFrom 2002, at the University of Sussex, Tripathi researched the Cold War Afghan conflict. This led to his well-received book on Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2012, Tripathi received his Doctorate in social science from the University of Roehampton, where he was an Honorary Fellow at the Crucible Centre for Human Rights Research from 2012 to 2015, and is currently an associate. He wrote his dissertation \"A Critical Study of the Afghanistan and Iraq Wars\" under the supervision of Professor Martin Shaw (sociologist), known for his work on war, genocide and global politics.\n\nIn 2013, Tripathi was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, and a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nTripathi writes on the effects of superpower rivalries in South Asia and the Middle East, and on U.S. policy in the region, for publications including Al Jazeera, Al-Ahram, History News Network, CounterPunch, AlterNet, and ZNet.\n\nTripathi has received praise from various reviewers for his writings on world conflicts, such as in Afghanistan, notably for his trilogy of books 'Breeding Ground', 'Overcoming The Bush Legacy in Iraq and Afghanistan' and 'Imperial Designs'.\n\nMarjorie Cohn, in the History News Network, writes of 'Breeding Ground': \"Tripathi’s excellent work ends with a call to replace the military strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan with development, reconciliation, and reconstruction.\" and \"Breeding Ground makes a significant contribution toward understanding the origins and triggers of terrorism. Tripathi traces the development of a ‘culture of violence’ in Afghanistan—largely due to resistance against foreign invasion—from the “U.S.-led proxy war” against the USSR to the current U.S. war.\"\n\nDavid Hillstrom, in the Foreign Policy Journal, describes 'Breeding Ground' as a \"concise yet powerful book\" which details the dangerously interlocking decisions and ill-thought-through strategies that inflamed the Afghan conflict. According to Hillstrom, Tripathi used a broad array of sources that only recently became available from both US and Soviet archives. He writes that the tragedy is that Afghanistan, which has now been at war for 40 years, has suffered the same before, from the 'Great Game' that the Russian Empire played with the British Empire in the 19th century; the players then as now had \"simplistic strategic goals\" but only \"a shallow understanding\" of Afghanistan itself. Hillstrom finds that Tripathi sums up the tragedy beautifully by closing his book with a quote from Tolstoy:\n\nRamzy Baroud, in the Global Research, writes of 'Overcoming The Bush Legacy in Iraq and Afghanistan': \"While reputable author and world renowned journalist Deepak Tripathi agrees with this grim view [of the poor outcomes of Western intervention in Iraq and Afghanistan], he doesn’t think all is lost. He believes that there is still a chance, an opportunity even to redress the injustice and reverse the terrible mistakes that were made. A compelling writer and a meticulous researcher, Tripathi’s work is both gripping and comprehensive. His latest book, 'Overcoming The Bush Legacy in Iraq and Afghanistan' serves as a glaring reminder of what military power can do when it goes unchecked, and when it is combined with religious fanaticism or misguided political ideology.\"\n\nGreta Morris, a retired US diplomat, writes in her review of 'Imperial Designs' in American Diplomacy: \"As policymakers, scholars and citizens seek to understand the increasingly bitter and violent conflicts in the Middle East and the escalating anger and terrorist acts against the West (particularly the U.S.), Deepak Tripathi's Imperial Designs offers important perspectives and insights. Tripathi's book is subtitled 'War, Humiliation and the Making of History,' and his theme is the role of humiliation in international politics. Specifically, he argues that the humiliation of a state or people by a more powerful state (or states) through political manipulation and military defeat profoundly influences the subsequent actions of the humiliated people, including their desire for revenge.\" Morris concludes the review with her comment: \"Tripathi's excellent summation of past events in the Middle East and his cogent analysis of their continuing implications should be required reading for all who are dealing directly with this troubled region, as well as those seeking to understand it and its relations with the United States.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43298439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43298439", "title": "Deinococcus apachensis", "text": "Deinococcus apachensis\n\nDeinococcus apachensis is a species of bacteria in the phylum Deinococcus-Thermus. Strains of this species were isolated from soil samples from Arizona after exposure to more than 15 kGy of radiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48816789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48816789", "title": "Dipromisto", "text": "Dipromisto\n\nDIPROMISTO (Ukrainian: ДІПРОМІСТО) is a research and planning institute in the field of spatial and urban planning in Ukraine. It is a state enterprise within the field of governance of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine. It was established on September 12, 1930. Its full name is \"State Enterprise Y.Bilokon Ukrainian State Scientific-Research Institute of Urban Design \"DIPROMISTO\"\".\nIn Russian language sources it is also known as Giprograd (Russian: Гипроград). During Soviet times it was a system of planning institutes consisting of the central institute in Kyiv and a range of affiliates in oblasts' centres of USSR. In due time, most of the affiliates separated from the Dipromisto system into separate institutes. Currently the Institute has three affiliates: Ivano-Frankivsk, Rivne, and Volyn affiliates.\n\nThe Institute “DIPROMISTO” was established on September 12, 1930. According to the Government of Ukrainian SSR Statute, the Institute had been assigned the tasks of urban planning, design residential and community buildings, and scientific work in the field of urban planning. During the pre-war period, Dipromisto’s team had produced a great amount of projects on regional planning in the most significant industrial regions, planning of cities and villages, design of community facilities, residential and public buildings, allocation of new industrial development, guidance and control on construction, scientific elaboration of key issues in spatial and urban planning, and experimental and standard design. During 1943-44 the key task of the Institute was to identify the loss to urban economies caused by war and define top-priority measures to assist the recovery of the cities of Ukrainian SSR. The huge destruction caused by war events in cities and villages demanded not only wide planning measures, but also new approaches to solving problems in the sphere of urban planning. In the 1950s, the attention of planners turned to verdurization and improvement of cities and villages, and the formation of their architectural view and landscape. In relation to such tendencies in 1962 a new architectural-planning workshop on resort-recreational objects design was created in the Institute in which both theoretical and practical works on resort design and typification have been made. In 1960-70s a landscape workshop was formed in the Institute in which the works on landscape reconstruction of green plantations and natural landscapes organisation have been designed.\nHaving started in late 1960s the work on schemes of regional planning for 25 Oblasts of Ukrainian SSR lasted until 1989. In 1985 the Institute “DIPROMISTO” started working on Summary Scheme of Regional Planning of Ukrainian SSR. In this complex scheme the versatile analyses of territorial resources and the state of environment, settlement systems, social, engineer and transport infrastructure has been given. With obtaining the state independence by Ukraine the tasks of revaluation of factors of regions and the whole state development, defining new priority axes of development, reorganisation of settlement system in consideration with political and economic changes, providing the integrated intrastate system of spatial and urban development, taking into account a market relations in planning of settlements development had arisen ahead of the experts in the field of spatial and urban planning. Since the beginning of 1990s an active work on implementation of geographical information technologies into spatial and urban planning is carried out in the Institute. Already in 1991-1993 the experts of the Institute “DIPROMISTO” have elaborated geographical information system for the purposes of urban planning – MISTO. Since 1995 the Base Center on implementation of GIS into spatial and urban planning is functioning in the structure of the Institute. Already in the end of 1995 it became evident that further usage of own software wasn’t enough to solve the tasks arisen before the Center and the whole Institute. Consequently, an active implementation of software products by ESRI – the leader in GIS software production – had been started. Such technological re-equipment allowed not only to rise significantly the quality of spatial and urban planning works, but also to come to rethinking of methodology of both spatial and urban planning and of regions and settlements governing development.The strengthening of the Institute in conditions of independent Ukraine has been realized under the direction of Yurii Mykolaiovych Bilokon, Doctor of Architecture, Professor, People’s Architect of Ukraine. The activity of Yurii Mykolaiovych Bilokon in the Institute has been wide and versatile – as a talented architect, who was highly aware of the problems of both planning and architectural design, he made a lot for improvement and development of the Institute functioning. Yurii Bilokon became one of the initiators of spatial planning of cross-border regions and elaborated methodological basis for these works. Bilokon Y.M. paid a great attention to scientific activity development in the Institute, education of the next generation of experts having been created a scientific-production-educational complex \"Arhmistobud\" on the base of the Institute in collaboration with the Department of Urban Planning of Kyiv National University of Construction and Architecture, implementation of the latest information technologies into the productive activity.In 2009 in gratitude for 16 years of the talented leadership and in memory of the passionate role of Yurii Bilokon’s personality in the development of the Institute, the staff has initiated to name the Institute “DIPROMISTO” after Y.M.Bilokon which was adopted by the Order of the Ministry of Regional Development of Ukraine.\n\nThe activity of DIPROMISTO is directed to scientific support of project works in the field of spatial and urban planning and architecture, creating a normative and methodological basis for planning and development of territories, as well as elaboration of spatial and urban planning documentation for settlements, regions and the country as a whole, project documentation on civil construction and landscape architecture, creation and implementation of geographical information decision support systems in the field of spatial and urban planning, including automated systems of urban cadastre, elaboration of land management works, basic and advanced training of experts in spatial and urban planning.The Institute is appointed to be a base organisation on scientific and technical activities in construction (Order of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine from 3 May 2012 No.190). This entrust the Institute with functions of scientific, research, normative-methodological and information support to planning and developing of territories and settlements, as well as support to Standardisation Technical Committee “Planning of territories and settlements” (TK314) created on the base of the Institute “DIPROMISTO” according to the Order of Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine from 21 February 2012 No.73.\n\nDuring the last years DIPROMISTO’s team had elaborated such works as the General Scheme of Planning of the Territory of Ukraine (the main document in the field of spatial planning adopted by the Law of Ukraine in 2002) and supports methodologically and monitors its implementation; schemes of planning of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, and raions of Ukraine; complex territorial schemes of nature protection; joint projects on spatial development of the cross-border regions; joint international projects on spatial development; general plans of cities; zoning plans; detailed plans of territories; projects of organisation of territories of nature protected areas; spatial planning substantiation of international transport corridor No.5 passage; projects on land cost assessment.\nMoreover, according to elaborated in Dipromisto Institute projects the Taras Shevchenko National Academy Theatre of Opera and Ballet in Kyiv and Odessa National Academy Theatre of Opera and Ballet have been reconstructed; and such objects as National Complex “Expocentre of Ukraine” in Kyiv; buildings of State Tax Inspectorate of Pechersk Rayon in Kyiv City, Kyiv National Linguistic University, Ukrgazprom; Kyiv Academic Puppet Theatre; the complex of buildings and structures of the Embassy of Belarus Republic in Ukraine; the building of the Academy of State Tax Service of Ukraine, in Irpin); the range of residential buildings of advanced comfort, and ordinary residential buildings have been built.\nThe experts of the Institute took active part in elaboration of the project of Urban Planning Code; the range of state building norms and state standards in the field of spatial and urban planning; methodological documents on spatial and urban planning projects elaboration, implementation of GIS-technologies into spatial and urban planning, land cost assessment, technical design of theatres, cultural and performance buildings, acoustic computation of auditoriums, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1573430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1573430", "title": "Electrostatic generator", "text": "Electrostatic generator\n\nAn electrostatic generator, or electrostatic machine, is an electromechanical generator that produces \"static electricity\", or electricity at high voltage and low continuous current. The knowledge of static electricity dates back to the earliest civilizations, but for millennia it remained merely an interesting and mystifying phenomenon, without a theory to explain its behavior and often confused with magnetism. By the end of the 17th century, researchers had developed practical means of generating electricity by friction, but the development of electrostatic machines did not begin in earnest until the 18th century, when they became fundamental instruments in the studies about the new science of electricity. Electrostatic generators operate by using manual (or other) power to transform mechanical work into electric energy. Electrostatic generators develop electrostatic charges of opposite signs rendered to two conductors, using only electric forces, and work by using moving plates, drums, or belts to carry electric charge to a high potential electrode. The charge is generated by one of two methods: either the triboelectric effect (friction) or electrostatic induction.\n\nElectrostatic machines are typically used in science classrooms to safely demonstrate electrical forces and high voltage phenomena. The elevated potential differences achieved have been also used for a variety of practical applications, such as operating X-ray tubes, medical applications, sterilization of food, and nuclear physics experiments. Electrostatic generators such as the Van de Graaff generator, and variations as the Pelletron, also find use in physics research.\n\nElectrostatic generators can be divided into two categories depending on how the charge is generated:\n\nThe first electrostatic generators are called \"friction machines\" because of the friction in the generation process. A primitive form of frictional machine was invented around 1663 by Otto von Guericke, using a sulphur globe that could be rotated and rubbed by hand. It may not actually have been rotated during use and was not intended to produce electricity (rather cosmic virtues), but inspired many later machines that used rotating globes. Isaac Newton suggested the use of a glass globe instead of a sulphur one. About 1706 Francis Hauksbee improved the basic design, with his frictional electrical machine that enabled a glass sphere to be rotated rapidly against a woollen cloth.\n\nGenerators were further advanced when, about 1730, Prof. Georg Matthias Bose of Wittenberg added a collecting conductor (an insulated tube or cylinder supported on silk strings). Bose was the first to employ the \"prime conductor\" in such machines, this consisting of an iron rod held in the hand of a person whose body was insulated by standing on a block of resin.\n\nIn 1746, William Watson's machine had a large wheel turning several glass globes, with a sword and a gun barrel suspended from silk cords for its prime conductors. Johann Heinrich Winckler, professor of physics at Leipzig, substituted a leather cushion for the hand. During 1746, Jan Ingenhousz invented electric machines made of plate glass. Experiments with the electric machine were largely aided by the discovery of the Leyden Jar. This early form of the capacitor, with conductive coatings on either side of the glass, can accumulate a charge of electricity when connected with a source of electromotive force.\n\nThe electric machine was soon further improved by Andrew (Andreas) Gordon, a Scotsman and professor at Erfurt, who substituted a glass cylinder in place of a glass globe; and by Giessing of Leipzig who added a \"rubber\" consisting of a cushion of woollen material. The collector, consisting of a series of metal points, was added to the machine by Benjamin Wilson about 1746, and in 1762, John Canton of England (also the inventor of the first pith-ball electroscope) improved the efficiency of electric machines by sprinkling an amalgam of tin over the surface of the rubber. In 1768, Jesse Ramsden constructed a widely used version of a plate electrical generator.\n\nIn 1783, Dutch scientist Martin van Marum of Haarlem designed a large electrostatic machine of high quality with glass disks 1.65 meters in diameter for his experiments. Capable of producing voltage with either polarity, it was built under his supervision by John Cuthbertson of Amsterdam the following year. The generator is currently on display at the Teylers Museum in Haarlem.\nIn 1785, N. Rouland constructed a silk-belted machine that rubbed two grounded tubes covered with hare fur. Edward Nairne developed an electrostatic generator for medical purposes in 1787 that had the ability to generate either positive or negative electricity, the first of these being collected from the prime conductor carrying the collecting points and the second from another prime conductor carrying the friction pad. The Winter machine possessed higher efficiency than earlier friction machines. \n\nIn the 1830s, Georg Ohm possessed a machine similar to the Van Marum machine for his research (which is now at the Deutsches Museum, Munich, Germany). In 1840, the Woodward machine was developed by improving the 1768 Ramsden machine, placing the prime conductor above the disk(s). Also in 1840, the Armstrong hydroelectric machine was developed, using steam as a charge carrier.\n\nThe presence of surface charge imbalance means that the objects will exhibit attractive or repulsive forces. This surface charge imbalance, which leads to static electricity, can be generated by touching two differing surfaces together and then separating them due to the phenomenon of the triboelectric effect. Rubbing two non-conductive objects generates a great amount of static electricity. This is not the result of friction; two non-conductive surfaces can become charged by just being placed one on top of the other. Since most surfaces have a rough texture, it takes longer to achieve charging through contact than through rubbing. Rubbing objects together increases amount of adhesive contact between the two surfaces. Usually insulators, e.g., substances that do not conduct electricity, are good at both generating, and holding, a surface charge. Some examples of these substances are rubber, plastic, glass, and pith. Conductive objects in contact generate charge imbalance too, but retain the charges only if insulated. The charge that is transferred during contact electrification is stored on the surface of each object. Note that the presence of electric current does not detract from the electrostatic forces nor from the sparking, from the corona discharge, or other phenomena. Both phenomena can exist simultaneously in the same system.\n\nFrictional machines were, in time, gradually superseded by the second class of instrument mentioned above, namely, \"influence machines\". These operate by electrostatic induction and convert mechanical work into electrostatic energy by the aid of a small initial charge which is continually being replenished and reinforced. The first suggestion of an influence machine appears to have grown out of the invention of Volta's \"electrophorus\". The electrophorus is a single-plate capacitor used to produce imbalances of electric charge via the process of electrostatic induction.\n\nThe next step was when Abraham Bennet, the inventor of the gold leaf electroscope, described a \"doubler of electricity\" (Phil. Trans., 1787), as a device similar to the electrophorus, but that could amplify a small charge by means of repeated manual operations with three insulated plates, in order to make it observable in an electroscope. Erasmus Darwin, W. Wilson, G. C. Bohnenberger, and (later, 1841) J. C. E. Péclet developed various modifications of Bennet's device. Francis Ronalds automated the generation process in 1816 by adapting a pendulum bob as one of the plates, driven by clockwork or a steam engine – he created the device to power his electric telegraph. In 1788, William Nicholson proposed his rotating doubler, which can be considered as the first rotating influence machine. His instrument was described as \"an instrument which by turning a winch produces the two states of electricity without friction or communication with the earth\". (Phil. Trans., 1788, p. 403) Nicholson later described a \"spinning condenser\" apparatus, as a better instrument for measurements.\n\nOthers, including T. Cavallo (who developed the \"Cavallo multiplier\", a charge multiplier using simple addition, in 1795), John Read, Charles Bernard Desormes, and Jean Nicolas Pierre Hachette, developed further various forms of rotating doublers. In 1798, The German scientist and preacher Gottlieb Christoph Bohnenberger, described the Bohnenberger machine, along with several other doublers of Bennet and Nicholson types in a book. The most interesting of these were described in the \"Annalen der Physik\" (1801). Giuseppe Belli, in 1831, developed a simple symmetrical doubler which consisted of two curved metal plates between which revolved a pair of plates carried on an insulating stem. It was the first symmetrical influence machine, with identical structures for both terminals. This apparatus was reinvented several times, by C. F. Varley, that patented a high power version in 1860, by Lord Kelvin (the \"replenisher\") 1868, and by A. D. Moore (the \"dirod\"), more recently. Lord Kelvin also devised a combined influence machine and electromagnetic machine, commonly called a mouse mill, for electrifying the ink in connection with his siphon recorder, and a water-drop electrostatic generator (1867), which he called the \"water-dropping condenser\".\n\nBetween 1864 and 1880, W. T. B. Holtz constructed and described a large number of influence machines which were considered the most advanced developments of the time. In one form, the Holtz machine consisted of a glass disk mounted on a horizontal axis which could be made to rotate at a considerable speed by a multiplying gear, interacting with induction plates mounted in a fixed disk close to it. In 1865, August J. I. Toepler developed an influence machine that consisted of two disks fixed on the same shaft and rotating in the same direction. In 1868, the Schwedoff machine had a curious structure to increase the output current. Also in 1868, several mixed friction-influence machine were developed, including the Kundt machine and the Carré machine. In 1866, the Piche machine (or Bertsch machine) was developed. In 1869, H. Julius Smith received the American patent for a portable and airtight device that was designed to ignite powder. Also in 1869, sectorless machines in Germany were investigated by Poggendorff.\n\nThe action and efficiency of influence machines were further investigated by F. Rossetti, A. Righi, and Friedrich Kohlrausch. E. E. N. Mascart, A. Roiti, and E. Bouchotte also examined the efficiency and current producing power of influence machines. In 1871, sectorless machines were investigated by Musaeus. In 1872, Righi's electrometer was developed and was one of the first antecedents of the Van de Graaff generator. In 1873, Leyser developed the Leyser machine, a variation of the Holtz machine. In 1880, Robert Voss (a Berlin instrument maker) devised a form of machine in which he claimed that the principles of Toepler and Holtz were combined. The same structure become also known as the \"Toepler-Holtz\" machine.\n\nIn 1878, the British inventor James Wimshurst started his studies about electrostatic generators, improving the Holtz machine, in a powerful version with multiple disks. The classical Wimshurst machine, that became the most popular form of influence machine, was reported to the scientific community by 1883, although previous machines with very similar structures were previously described by Holtz and Musaeus. In 1885, one of the largest-ever Wimshurst machines was built in England (it is now at the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry). The Wimshurst machine is a considerably simple machine; it works, as all influence machines, with electrostatic induction of charges, which means that it uses even the slightest existing charge to create and accumulate more charges, and repeats this process for as long as the machine is in action. Wimshurst machines are composed of: two insulated disks attached to pulleys of opposite rotation, the disks have small conductive (usually metal) plates on their outward-facing sides; two double-ended brushes that serve as charge stabilizers and are also the place where induction happens, creating the new charges to be collected; two pairs of collecting combs, which are, as the name implies, the collectors of electrical charge produced by the machine; two Leyden Jars, the capacitors of the machine; a pair of electrodes, for the transfer of charges once they have been sufficiently accumulated. The simple structure and components of the Wimshurst Machine make it a common choice for a homemade electrostatic experiment or demonstration, these characteristics were factors that contributed to its popularity, as previously mentioned.\n\nIn 1887, Weinhold modified the Leyser machine with a system of vertical metal bar inductors with wooden cylinders close to the disk for avoiding polarity reversals. M. L. Lebiez described the Lebiez machine, that was essentially a simplified Voss machine (\"L'Électricien\", April 1895, pp. 225–227). In 1893, Bonetti patented a machine with the structure of the Wimshurst machine, but without metal sectors in the disks. This machine is significantly more powerful than the sectored version, but it must usually be started with an externally applied charge.\n\nIn 1898, the Pidgeon machine was developed with a unique setup by W. R. Pidgeon. On October 28 that year, Pidgeon presented this machine to the Physical Society after several years of investigation into influence machines (beginning at the start of the decade). The device was later reported in the \"Philosophical Magazine\" (December 1898, pg. 564) and the \"Electrical Review\" (Vol. XLV, pg. 748). A Pidgeon machine possesses fixed inductors arranged in a manner that increases the electrostatic induction effect (and its electrical output is at least double that of typical machines of this type [except when it is overtaxed]). The essential features of the Pidgeon machine are, one, the combination of the rotating support and the fixed support for inducing charge, and, two, the improved insulation of all parts of the machine (but more especially of the generator's carriers). Pidgeon machines are a combination of a Wimshurst Machine and Voss Machine, with special features adapted to reduce the amount of charge leakage. Pidgeon machines excite themselves more readily than the best of these types of machines. In addition, Pidgeon investigated higher current \"triplex\" section machines (or \"double machines with a single central disk\") with enclosed sectors (and went on to receive British Patent 22517 (1899) for this type of machine).\n\nMultiple disk machines and \"triplex\" electrostatic machines (generators with three disks) were also developed extensively around the turn of the 20th century. In 1900, F. Tudsbury discovered that enclosing a generator in a metallic chamber containing compressed air, or better, carbon dioxide, the insulating properties of compressed gases enabled a greatly improved effect to be obtained owing to the increase in the breakdown voltage of the compressed gas, and reduction of the leakage across the plates and insulating supports. In 1903, Alfred Wehrsen patented an ebonite rotating disk possessing embedded sectors with button contacts at the disk surface. In 1907, Heinrich Wommelsdorf reported a variation of the Holtz machine using this disk and inductors embedded in celluloid plates (DE154175; \"Wehrsen machine\"). Wommelsdorf also developed several high-performance electrostatic generators, of which the best known were his \"Condenser machines\" (1920). These were single disk machines, using disks with embedded sectors that were accessed at the edges.\n\nElectrostatic generators had a fundamental role in the investigations about the structure of matter, starting at the end of the 19th century. By the 1920s, it was evident that machines able to produce greater voltage were needed. \n\nThe Van de Graaff generator was invented by American physicist Robert J. Van de Graaff in 1929 at MIT as a particle accelerator. The first model was demonstrated in October 1929. In the Van de Graaff machine, an insulating belt transports electric charge to the interior of an insulated hollow metal high voltage terminal, where it is transferred to the terminal by a \"comb\" of metal points. The advantage of the design was that since there was no electric field in the interior of the terminal, the charge on the belt could continue to be discharged onto the terminal regardless of how high the voltage on the terminal was. Thus the only limit to the voltage on the machine is ionization of the air next to the terminal. This occurs when the electric field at the terminal exceeds the dielectric strength of air, about 30 kV per centimeter. Since the highest electric field is produced at sharp points and edges, the terminal is made in the form of a smooth hollow sphere; the larger the diameter the higher the voltage attained. The first machine used a silk ribbon bought at a five and dime store as the charge transport belt. In 1931 a version able to produce 1,000,000 volts was described in a patent disclosure.\n\nThe Van de Graaff generator was a successful particle accelerator, producing the highest energies until the late 1930s when the cyclotron superseded it. The voltage on open air Van de Graaff machines is limited to a few million volts by air breakdown. Higher voltages, up to about 25 megavolts, were achieved by enclosing the generator inside a tank of pressurized insulating gas. This type of Van de Graaff particle accelerator is still used in medicine and research. Other variations were also invented for physics research, such as the Pelletron, that uses a chain with alternating insulating and conducting links for charge transport. \n\nSmall Van de Graaff generators are commonly used in science museums and science education to demonstrate the principles of static electricity. A popular demonstration is to have a person touch the high voltage terminal while standing on an insulated support; the high voltage charges the person's hair, causing the strands to stand out from the head.\n\nAn electrostatic wind energy converter, the EWICON, has been developed by The School of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science at Delft University of Technology (TU Delft). Its stands near Mecanoo, an architecture firm. The main developers were Johan Smit and Dhiradj Djairam. Other than the wind, it has no moving parts. It is powered by the wind carrying away charged particles from its collector. The design suffers from poor efficiency.\n\nThe technology developed for EWICON has been reused in the Dutch Windwheel.\n\nThese generators have been used, sometimes inappropriately and with some controversy, to support various fringe science investigations. In 1911, George Samuel Piggott received a patent for a compact double machine enclosed within a pressurized box for his experiments concerning radiotelegraphy and \"antigravity\". Much later (in the 1960s), a machine known as \"Testatika\" was built by German engineer, Paul Suisse Bauman, and promoted by a Swiss community, the Methernithans. Testatika is an electromagnetic generator based on the 1898 Pidgeon electrostatic machine, said to produce \"free energy\" available directly from the environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6457764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6457764", "title": "Engineering science and mechanics", "text": "Engineering science and mechanics\n\nEngineering Science and Mechanics (ESM) is a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary engineering program and/or academic department at the Pennsylvania State University, University of Virginia, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Georgia Institute of Technology, or University of Alabama. A B.S., M.S., M.Eng., or Ph.D. degree in engineering science, engineering mechanics, or engineering science and mechanics is awarded by these universities upon completion of the respective program.\n\nAreas of specialization available vary from one institution to another. In general, areas of specialization available may include, but are not limited to, aerodynamics, biomechanics, bionanotechnology, biosensors and bioelectronics, composite materials, continuum mechanics, data mining, electromagnetics of complex materials, electronic materials and devices, experimental mechanics, fluid mechanics, laser-assisted micromanufacturing, metamaterials, microfabrication, microfluidic systems, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and micro-opto-electromechanical systems (MOEMS), nanotechnology, neural engineering, non-destructive testing or evaluation, nonlinear dynamics, optoelectronics, photonics and plasmonics, quantum mechanics, solar-energy-harvesting materials, solid mechanics, solid-state physics, structural health monitoring, and thin films and nanostructured materials.\n\nIn 1972, the department of engineering mechanics at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University changed its name and undergraduate program to engineering science and mechanics. In 1974, the department of engineering mechanics at the Pennsylvania State University merged with engineering science program and the department was renamed to engineering science and mechanics. Engineering science and mechanics is a graduate program in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. The department of aerospace engineering and mechanics at the University of Alabama offers graduate degrees in engineering science and mechanics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48854038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48854038", "title": "FONDECYT", "text": "FONDECYT\n\nThe National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development (Spanish: \"Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Científico y Tecnológico\"), abbreviated FONDECYT, is the main public fund of the Government of Chile to promote basic scientific and technological research in all areas of knowledge. It is managed by the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT).\n\nThe fund was established in 1981 and began operations in 1982. Since then it has funded more than 16,000 research projects. In 1991 CONICYT opened a second fund, FONDEF (The Science & Technology Development Fund), with the aim of promoting public–private collaboration in research and development.\n\nThe program provides financial support for projects selected under three headings:\n\n"}
{"id": "2384812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384812", "title": "Frank Worsley", "text": "Frank Worsley\n\nFrank Arthur Worsley (22 February 1872 – 1 February 1943) was a New Zealand sailor and explorer who served on Ernest Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition of 1914–1916, as captain of the \"Endurance\". He also served in the Royal Navy Reserve during the First World War.\n\nBorn in Akaroa, New Zealand, on 22 February 1872, Worsley joined the New Zealand Shipping Company in 1888. He served aboard several vessels running trade routes between New Zealand, England and the South Pacific. While on South Pacific service, he became renowned for his ability to navigate to tiny, remote islands. He joined the Royal Navy Reserve in 1902 and served on HMS \"Swiftsure\" for a year before returning to the Merchant Navy. In 1914, he joined the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition, which aimed to cross the Antarctic continent.\n\nAfter the expedition's ship \"Endurance\" was trapped in ice and wrecked, he and the rest of the expedition sailed three lifeboats to Elephant Island, off the Antarctic Peninsula. From here, he, along with Shackleton and four others, sailed the lifeboat \"James Caird\" some across the stormy South Atlantic Ocean, eventually arriving at their intended destination, South Georgia. His navigation skills were crucial to the safe arrival of the \"James Caird\". Shackleton, Worsley and seaman Tom Crean then hiked and climbed through snow and ice across mountainous South Georgia in a 36-hour march to fetch help from Stromness whaling station. He and Shackleton returned to Elephant Island aboard the \"Yelcho\", a Chilean naval ship, to rescue the remaining members of the expedition, all of whom survived.\nDuring the First World War, Worsley captained the Q-ship \"PC.61\". He was responsible for the sinking of a German U-boat, on 26 September 1917 by carrying out a skilful ramming manoeuvre. For his role in the sinking of the \"UC-33\", Worsley was awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO). Later in the war he worked in transportation of supplies in Arctic Russia, and in the North Russia Intervention against the Bolsheviks, earning a bar to his DSO. He was later appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire. From 1921 to 1922 he served on Shackleton's last expedition to the Antarctic as captain of the \"Quest\". In between berths in the Merchant Navy he led an expedition to the Arctic Circle and participated in a treasure hunt on Cocos Island. He also wrote several books relating to his experiences in polar exploration and during his sailing career.\n\nDuring the Second World War he initially served with the International Red Cross in France and Norway. In 1941, he falsified his age so he could rejoin the Merchant Navy. When officials discovered his actual age, he was released from duty. He died from lung cancer in 1943 in England.\n\nFrank Arthur Worsley was born on 22 February 1872 in Akaroa, New Zealand, one of three children of a farmer, Henry Worsley, and his wife Georgiana. His grandfather, Henry Francis Worsley (1806–1876), had migrated from Rugby in England aboard the \"Cornwall\" to Lyttelton, where he arrived with his large family in December 1851. The family lived in Grehan Valley, high up above Akaroa. Worsley's mother died while he was a toddler. He was sent to school in Akaroa but when his father moved his family to take up work clearing bush from land at Peraki, he was homeschooled for a time. From age 10, he helped with clearing land for sheep pasture and growing cocksfoot. When Frank was 11, his older brother, Harry, left to join the New Zealand Shipping Company as an apprentice and at about the same time, his father moved his family, which was now just Frank and his 13-year-old sister, to Christchurch. Frank attended Fendalton School and marked his final year of schooling by being made head boy.\n\nLike his brother, Frank was interested in a career at sea. In 1887, his application to join the New Zealand Shipping Company was declined because of his short stature, but he was successful six months later. He was signed on as a junior midshipman aboard the \"Wairoa\", a three-masted clipper which transported wool to London.\n\nWorsley served on a number of sailing ships of the company, running the trade route between New Zealand and England for several years. He became a third mate by 1891, and then a fifth officer the following year. In 1895, when a third officer, he left the New Zealand Shipping Company to join the New Zealand Government Steamer Service (NZGSS). His first posting was aboard the \"Tutanekai\", a NZGSS steamer which served the Pacific Islands, as second mate. He was considered to be a good and experienced officer, but was not averse to mischief. On one voyage in 1899, the \"Tutanekai\" was anchored in the harbour at Apia, the capital city of German Samoa. That night, Worsley went ashore and stole the ensign that was flown from the flagpole of the German consulate on the harbour front. On discovering the theft, the consul suspected the culprit was from the crew of the \"Tutanekai\", the only merchant vessel in the harbour at the time. With a party of sailors from , also anchored in the harbour, the consul boarded the \"Tutanekai\" looking for the ensign, but they left empty-handed after the ship's captain protested. Even when the captain later found out Worsley was responsible, it did not affect his career prospects. He was posted to the \"Hinemoa\", another NZGSS steamer, as chief officer.\n\nIn June 1900, Worsley sat the examination for a foreign master's certificate. He passed with good marks, and was one of two students commended for their efforts. He was now a qualified master and, as his first command, was given the \"Countess of Ranfurly\". This was a three-masted schooner of the NZGSS which sailed trade routes in the South Pacific, mainly around the Cook Islands and Niue, both of which were New Zealand dependencies. Beatrice Grimshaw, a travel writer based in Papua New Guinea, said that \"Any passenger he took had to work passage as well as pay\" and that he encouraged her to learn practical seamanship, \"to go aloft, to “hand, reef and steer,” and to use the sixteen-foot oar in the whaleboat\".\n\nWhile in command of the \"Countess of Ranfurly\", Worsley joined the Royal Navy Reserve (RNR) and on 1 January 1902 was appointed a sub-lieutenant. In 1904, \"Countess of Ranfurly\" was sold, and this left Worsley without a command. Rather than stay in the employ of the New Zealand Government Steamer Service, he decided to look abroad for work. He travelled to Sydney and found a berth as chief officer on HMS \"Sparrow\", which was on its delivery voyage to New Zealand, having been recently purchased by the New Zealand Government. When the \"Sparrow\" arrived in Wellington in March 1905, he was selected to command the ship while it was converted to a training vessel. The conversion was still incomplete when he left for England in early 1906.\n\nOn arrival in England in March 1906, Worsley presented himself for further training in the RNR. He was posted to HMS \"Psyche\" and received specialist training in torpedoes, gunnery and navigation. He was promoted to lieutenant the following May. He served on a number of Royal Navy ships, including 12 months on HMS \"Swiftsure\", for the next two years. He then returned to the Merchant Navy and found a position with Allan Line Royal Mail Steamers, which sailed regularly from England to Canada and South America. He would intermittently be called up for service in the RNR over the next several years. This included a month in 1911 spent aboard HMS \"New Zealand\".\n\nIn 1914, the explorer Ernest Shackleton began preparing an expedition which had the goal of completing the first crossing of the Antarctic continent. The failure of Robert Falcon Scott to beat the Norwegian Roald Amundsen to the South Pole in 1911 was considered a blot on Britain's reputation in polar exploration. Shackleton's expedition was intended to return the country to the forefront of Antarctic endeavour. He set up his headquarters at Burlington Road in London, and was interviewing candidates for the expedition. One available position was that of captain for the expedition's vessel, the \"Endurance\".\n\nWorsley, in London while awaiting a new berth, joined the expedition as a result of a dream, in which he was navigating a ship around icebergs drifting down Burlington Street. He took it as a premonition and the next day hurried down to Burlington Street, where he noticed a sign on a building advertising what Shackleton called the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition. He promptly entered the building whereupon he met Shackleton. After a few minutes of conversation, Shackleton offered him the captaincy of the \"Endurance\", which Worsley accepted.\n\nThe \"Endurance\" left England on 8 August 1914 destined for Buenos Aires, where Shackleton, travelling separately, would join the expedition. The departure of the expedition was troubled; the impending outbreak of the First World War prompted some members including Worsley, anticipating a call up to the RNR, to propose a postponement of the voyage. However, the Admiralty advised Shackleton to proceed with his plans even after Britain declared war on Imperial Germany on 4 August. Just prior to the departure of the \"Endurance\" Worsley approached the authorities and was advised that RNR personnel were not being called up at the time. While steaming to South America, fuel ran low and wood intended for planned buildings at the expedition's base in Antarctica was used to keep the engine running. Worsley ran a relatively relaxed ship with little discipline or control of alcohol consumption. Four crew members got into a barroom brawl at a stopover in Madeira, a neutral port. While anchored in the harbour, a neighbouring German ship swung into the \"Endurance\", damaging it. Worsley, enraged, boarded the German ship with some other members of the expedition and forced the crew to repair the damage caused.\n\nShackleton, briefed on Worsley's handling of the voyage to date once he had caught up with the expedition at Buenos Aires, began to have concerns about his choice of captain. Worsley was to be in command of the resupply expedition for the party that was to winter over in Antarctica, but Shackleton began to doubt whether his leadership skills were sufficient to achieve this. After resupplying at Buenos Aires, the \"Endurance\" left for the remote island of South Georgia, in the South Atlantic, on 26 October. It duly arrived at Grytviken Station, a Norwegian whaling outpost, on 5 November. The Norwegians confirmed initial reports from Buenos Aires that the Antarctic pack ice was much further north than usual. Shackleton followed the Norwegians' advice to delay departure until later in the summer, and it was not until 5 December that the \"Endurance\" steamed south for the Weddell Sea.\n\nThe \"Endurance\" encountered the pack ice three days after leaving South Georgia, and Worsley began working the ship through the various bergs. On occasion it was necessary to ram a path through the ice. Progress was intermittent; on some days little headway was made while on other days large stretches of open water allowed swift passage southwards. Worsley would often direct the helmsman from the crow's nest, from where he could see any breaks in the ice. It was during this time that Shackleton realised that his temperament was less suited to giving orders than to following them, which he would do with the utmost determination.\n\nOn 18 January 1915, the ship became iced in. Within a few days, it was apparent that the \"Endurance\" was held fast and was likely to remain so for the upcoming winter. Trapped, the ship slowly drifted westwards with the ice, and the expedition settled in for the winter. The original plan had been to leave a shore party on the Antarctic mainland while Worsley took the \"Endurance\" northwards. There had been no expectation that the entire expedition would live aboard the ship in the long term. Worsley relished the challenge; he slept in the passageway rather than the cabins, and even in the depths of winter, would shock the rest of those aboard the ship by taking snow baths on the ice. With little to do since the \"Endurance\" became trapped, he occupied himself taking soundings of the ocean and collecting specimens. He later wrote a report entitled \"Biological, Soundings and Magnetic Record, Weddell Sea, 1914–1916.\"\n\nBy July, it was becoming obvious that the ice was likely to crush the \"Endurance\", which creaked and trembled under the pressure, and Shackleton instructed Worsley to be prepared to quickly abandon ship if the need arose. Worsley was initially incredulous, asking Shackleton: \"You seriously mean to tell me that the ship is doomed?\" Shackleton responded \"The ship can't live in this, Skipper.\" Finally, on 24 October, the pressure of the ice caused the stern post of the \"Endurance\" to twist and the ship began to quickly let in water. After desperate attempts to fix the leak and pump the ship dry, Shackleton gave the order to abandon ship three days later. Salvaging what essential supplies they could, the expedition set out on 30 October for Robertson Island, to the northeast. After just three days, it was clear that the condition of the ice was too rough for sledging. Having travelled only a mile and a half (2.4 km) from where the \"Endurance\" was sinking, they set up camp to wait for the ice to break up. Lumber and tents were salvaged from the crushed ship, which was still not fully submerged, and a reasonable camp, known as Ocean Camp, was established. The expedition stayed here for two months until 23 December, when they struck camp.\nThe conditions underfoot were slushy during the day, as the temperature warmed up. Shackleton resolved to do most of the trekking at night, sledging the three lifeboats of the \"Endurance\" behind them. The sledging was hard work and after little more than a week, Shackleton and his men were forced to camp once more. Underneath, the ice continued to move northwards, and by April 1916, the floe they were on was nearly within sight of Elephant Island but beginning to break up. Shackleton ordered the expedition to the lifeboats, placing Worsley in charge of one of them, the \"Dudley Docker\". It took a week to reach Elephant Island, the ice and currents inhibiting progress.\n\nThe first few nights involved camping on nearby ice floes with the constant risk of them breaking up, but the last four nights were in the boats, with Worsley spending most of it at the tiller and going without sleep for 90 hours straight. His experience with open boats came to the fore in his sound handling of the \"Dudley Docker\", while his navigation was exemplary, guiding the fleet of lifeboats unerringly to Elephant Island once they found favourable wind conditions. On the final night at sea, with Elephant Island having been sighted earlier in the day, heavy seas separated his boat from the other two lifeboats. His boat taking on water and caught in a rip, Worsley steered the \"Dudley Docker\" all through the night. Relieved early in the morning, he promptly fell asleep and could only be awoken by kicks to the head. It was three years later that he eventually found out the method that was used by his companions to shake him from his deep sleep. The \"Dudley Docker\" made shore on 15 April, landing on the same shingle beach of Elephant Island as the other lifeboats. It was the expedition's first landfall in almost 18 months.\n\nIt quickly became apparent that Elephant Island, of rock and ice with little shelter, was not a welcoming environment particularly with winter approaching and most of the expedition members weakened by their ordeal. Furthermore, the expedition could not be expected to be spotted by search parties or passing whalers. Within days of landing on Elephant Island, Shackleton decided to take a small party and sail the largest lifeboat, the \"James Caird\", named for one of the expedition's sponsors, to South Georgia, away. From there he would obtain a ship and return for the remainder of his men. Worsley, whose navigational skills had impressed Shackleton, volunteered to accompany him. The \"James Caird\", originally built to Worsley's specifications, was about long and the expedition's carpenter, Harry McNish, immediately set about improving its seaworthiness. On 24 April, the weather dawned clear and after being provisioned with 30 days of supplies, the boat left Elephant Island. Worsley was faced with the task of navigating the Southern Ocean to South Georgia. There was no margin for error as the \"James Caird\" would sail into the South Atlantic if he missed the island; this would mean almost certain death for those in the lifeboat but also those remaining on Elephant Island. Fortuitously, the weather was fine on the day of departure from the island and this allowed Worsley to obtain a sun sighting to ensure that his chronometer was rated.\nShortly after the start of the voyage, the \"James Caird\" which, in addition to Shackleton and Worsley, also carried McNish, sailors John Vincent and Timothy McCarthy, as well as the experienced Tom Crean, encountered the ice but Worsley found a way through and into the open ocean. The crew set up two watches for the journey, which eventually would take 16 days, in strong and heavy seas, to reach South Georgia. For most of the voyage, the weather proved to be stormy and so overcast Worsley was unable to take more than a few sightings with his sextant. He described one sighting as \"...cuddling the mast with one arm and swinging fore and aft round the mast, sextant and all...\" and he would \"...catch the sun when the boat leaped her highest on the crest of a sea...\". At times the sea conditions were so rough he was braced by the other crew members when taking his sightings. On occasion, the temperature was bitter and each man would spend one minute shifts chipping away ice that coated the top surfaces of the \"James Caird\", affecting its buoyancy. The heavy seas meant there was considerable risk that a man could go overboard.\n\nAfter two weeks, Worsley began to worry about the lack of sightings and advised Shackleton he could not calculate their position to less than accuracy. As a result, Shackleton opted to aim for the western side of South Georgia which meant, given the prevailing winds, that if they missed their target they would be carried onto the east coast of the island. The following day, they began to observe drifting seaweed and seabirds circulating overhead, indicating the presence of land ahead. On 8 May, through mists and squalls, the crew sighted South Georgia's Cape Demidov, precisely in line with the course calculated by Worsley. He saw a \"...towering black crag, with a lacework of snow around its flanks. One glimpse, and it was hidden again. We looked at each other with cheerful, foolish grins.\" Sea and wind conditions were such that they were unable to make their way to the Norwegian whaling stations, some away, on the east coast; instead they made for King Haakon Bay. Now out of drinking water, they were forced by the high seas to approach the rocky coast with care and heave to for the night. A gale blew strongly the following day and despite their best efforts, they stayed offshore for a further night. Conditions were much better on 10 May and after adverse winds caused failure of his first few attempts, Worsley carefully sailed the \"James Caird\" through a rocky reef guarding King Haakon Bay and onto the beach.\n\nAfter slaking their thirst from a nearby stream, the crew unloaded the \"James Caird\" and spent the first night on South Georgia in a cave. The next day, Shackleton announced his intention to walk overland to the Norwegian whaling station at Stromness Bay, on the other side of the island. The crew were too exhausted, and the \"James Caird\" too battered, for Shackleton to consider sailing around the island. The trek to Stromness Bay was and after resting for several days, he, along with Worsley and Tom Crean, set out on 19 May. The interior of South Georgia was mountainous and covered with glaciers. Their map of South Georgia showed only the coastline, and on several occasions, they were forced to backtrack when their route was found to be impassable. After a non-stop trek of 36 hours, the trio reached Stromness Bay and were taken to the manager of the whaling station. He was unable to recognise Shackleton, whom he had met during the expedition's stopover on the island nearly two years previously. After a hot bath and a large meal, Worsley set out on a whaler to collect the three men left behind at King Haakon Bay. That night a strong blizzard struck the island. Had it developed while Worsley and the others were on their trek, it would have likely killed them. They were fortunate the weather had been relatively good for their trek across the island. Later, all three trekkers would talk of a \"fourth presence\" that accompanied them. In his account of the walk, Worsley would write \"...I again find myself counting our party—Shackleton, Crean, and I and—who was the other? Of course, there were only three, but it is strange that in mentally reviewing the crossing we should always think of a fourth, and then correct ourselves.\"\n\nThe next day, McNish, McCarthy and Vincent were picked up. They were unable to recognise Worsley, freshly shaven, when he stepped ashore. The \"James Caird\", which had been pulled up the beach and turned over to serve as a shelter, was also retrieved.\n\nThree days after McNish and the others were brought back to Stromness Bay, Shackleton, Crean and Worsley, along with a crew of volunteers from the whaling station, set out on a hired ship for Elephant Island. They got to within of the island before ice prevented any further passage south. Unable to break a passage through the ice, they steamed to the Falkland Islands to obtain a more suitable vessel. By now news of the fate of the expedition had reached Britain. Despite messages of goodwill and support, the only British vessel that could be found was the , Robert Falcon Scott's old ship, but this would not be available until October. The war tied up all other available resources.\n\nWaiting for October was not acceptable to Shackleton who, desperately concerned for the men on Elephant Island, continued to search for a ship. The British Foreign Office prevailed on the governments of Uruguay, Chile and Argentina for a suitable vessel. The Uruguayans came forward with a small survey ship, and this was sailed to within sight of Elephant Island before it too had to turn back. An effort with an Argentinean vessel which set sail on 12 July also failed after three weeks of atrocious weather. Chile offered the use of the \"Yelcho\", and on this steel-hulled steamer, Shackleton, Worsley and Crean set out with a crew on 25 August. Fortunately, in contrast to their previous attempt, the weather was mild and on 30 August, they reached Elephant Island where, to their great joy, they found all 22 men left behind alive. Within an hour all were retrieved and, not wanting to risk being trapped by ice, the \"Yelcho\" quickly departed for Punta Arenas, where it was greeted with great fanfare. Worsley later wrote: \"...I was always sorry for the twenty-two men who lived in that horrible place for four months of misery while we were away on the boat journey, and the four attempts at rescue ending with their joyful relief.\"\n\nWhile Worsley had been retrieving McNish and others from King Haakon Bay, Shackleton was advised of the fate of his Ross Sea party which had been tasked with laying depots on Shackleton's intended route across Antarctica. Ten men, forming a winter party, had set up a base at Hut Point, while their ship, the SY \"Aurora\", owned by Shackleton, wintered at Cape Evans. In May 1915, the ship broke free from its moorings and became trapped in the ice. Badly damaged, it drifted with the ice for over six months before it broke free and its captain, Joseph Stenhouse, was able to sail it to New Zealand in March 1916. No one had heard from the stranded winter party at Hut Point for nearly two years. After journeying with the rest of the survivors of his own party to Argentina, Shackleton, along with Worsley, left for New Zealand. From here they hoped to find a ship to take them south to retrieve the Ross Sea party.\n\nShackleton had brought Worsley along intending to use his services in the retrieval of the winter party. However, after their arrival in New Zealand in December 1916, they found themselves without a ship. They had expected to use the \"Aurora\" with Shackleton as its captain. In the meantime, the Australian, New Zealand and British governments had put forward funds for the rescue but influenced by the explorer Douglas Mawson, who disliked Shackleton, the Australian government appointed its own captain. After protracted negotiations, Shackleton sailed on board the \"Aurora\" as a supernumerary officer. Worsley was left behind but was placated with a paid passage to Britain. The seven surviving members of the winter party were duly rescued. Worsley was later awarded the Polar Medal for his service on the expedition.\n\nShortly after Shackleton returned to New Zealand from the Ross Sea, having picked up the survivors of the winter party, Worsley travelled to England aboard the RMS \"Makura\". As an RNR officer, he wanted to join in the fight against Imperial Germany. After arriving in Liverpool, he made his way to London and was quickly assigned to HMS \"Pembroke\", the shore station at Chatham. Here, for three months, he learned about fighting U-boats, which were causing considerable damage to supply convoys crossing the Atlantic. Several tactics were deployed against the U-boats. One of these involved the use of Q-ships, small merchant vessels fitted out with hidden armament that could be deployed against any U-boats which surfaced and approached the seemingly unarmed ship. Another tactic was the use of P-boats, which were patrol boats that carried out convoy escort duties and anti-submarine work. The P-boats had a distinctive profile, and their effectiveness wore off as U-boat commanders began to recognise and avoid them. The later built P-boats were designed with a more conventional profile approximating that of a merchant ship, and thus were similar to Q-ships.\n\nIn July 1917, Worsley was appointed commander of the \"PC.61\", one of the later P-boats, with Joseph Stenhouse as his first officer. The \"PC.61\", commissioned on 31 July 1917, was equipped with a semi-automatic gun that was hidden by a tarpaulin suspended from crane derricks when not in use. She also had a ram at her bow. Shortly after its commissioning he took his new command to sea on patrol. Most patrols were uneventful but sometimes U-boats were sighted and pursued but these invariably got away. Occasionally torpedoes were fired at his ship. Worsley felt the \"PC.61\" was too easily identified as a Royal Navy vessel against which U-boats were too cautious to make a surface attack. Instead, the submarine would use its torpedoes to attack the ship. \n\nIn late September 1917, Worsley and the \"PC.61\" were on patrol to the south of Ireland. On 26 September 1917, a nearby tanker was struck by a torpedo from a U-boat, . Observing the explosion, Worsley gradually slowed his propellers, hoping to deceive the U-boat's crew into thinking his P-boat was leaving the area and luring the submarine to the surface. The deception was successful and the \"UC-33\" surfaced, intending to sink the tanker with its deck gun. Worsley immediately ordered full speed ahead and, realising that he would lose time in manoeuvring his ship into a position in which she could use her guns, set a collision course with the U-boat, intending to ram the submarine. At high speeds the bow, to which the ram was fitted, of the \"PC.61\" lifted out of the water considerably, and Worsley had to reduce speed at the right moment in order for it to be at the right height to strike the submarine. He timed the reduction of speed of the \"PC.61\" perfectly and she struck the \"UC-33\" midships as it was submerging. The submarine rapidly sunk with nearly all hands, the exception being the captain, who was rescued and later gifted Worsley a silver whistle. The damaged tanker was towed to Milford Haven in Wales, which took 12 hours in an area where other U-boats were known to be lurking.\n\nFor his role in the sinking of the \"UC-33\", Worsley was awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO) and Shackleton sent him a telegraph congratulating him on his success. Worsley conducted patrols with the \"PC.61\" for several more months. In September 1918, he was given command of HMS \"Pangloss\", a Q-ship operating in the Mediterranean and which was formerly commanded by Commander Gordon Campbell. With the war nearly over, Worsley did not anticipate much excitement in his new posting.\n\nPassing through London en route to Gibraltar, where the \"Pangloss\" was based, Worsley met Shackleton, recently assigned by the War Office to the International Contingent destined for Northern Russia to aid the White movement in its fight against the Bolsheviks. Shackleton's expertise in the polar regions had been recognised by the War Office, and with the temporary rank of major, he was preparing the contingent for a winter deployment to Murmansk. Shackleton had already recruited several veterans of the \"Endurance\" to serve with him and arranged for Worsley, keen for action, to be transferred to join the contingent. Worsley, by now a lieutenant commander, left for Murmansk the following month.\n\nAfter he arrived in Russia, Worsley was selected to go to Archangel where he organised equipment and supplies for the British forces stationed there. He provided extensive advice, derived from his polar experience, to soldiers on how to best make use of their resources and trained them in the use of skis. He participated in several patrols and due to a shortage of officers, occasionally took command of platoons of British infantry. In April 1919, he was posted back to Murmansk, where he took command of the gunboat HMS \"Cricket\". He took her up the Dvinia River and targeted Bolshevik gunboats and villages along the river. He also provided support to British and White Russian units moving along the banks of the river in operations to seize ground lost to the Bolsheviks in the winter months.\n\nWorsley commanded \"Cricket\" for two months before becoming the captain of HMS \"M24\", a monitor and tender to HMS \"Fox\". His time in command was short as he managed to attach himself to the Hampshire Regiment. In August, he participated in a raid behind Bolshevik lines. The raiding party of 25 men obtained useful intelligence by tapping telegraph lines and ambushing a Bolshevik convoy but their presence soon became known and they were pursued by a force of over 200 Bolsheviks. When the captain commanding the party became lost in a forest, he deferred navigation to Worsley, who successfully led all 25 men back to safety. For his efforts, he was awarded a bar to his DSO. The citation for his award read:\nWhen the Allied forces left Murmansk and Archangel in late 1919, Worsley returned to London. He was rewarded for his service in Russia by being appointed to the Order of St. Stanislaus. He was discharged from service on 2 January 1920 and placed on the RNR retired list. Later in the year, in a ceremony at Buckingham Palace, he was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire for his services to Great Britain.\n\nWorsley remained in near constant contact with Shackleton, who was attempting to put together an expedition to the Arctic, and was hopeful of securing a suitable position in the endeavour. However, the expedition was still some way off and in the meantime, Worsley set up a shipping company with his friend Stenhouse. The company, Stenhouse Worsley & Co, purchased a schooner, \"Annie\", with the intention of trading with the Baltic states. This plan collapsed when the Baltic freight market fell on hard times and eventually, the company started shipping freight along the British coast. In late 1920, Worsley and Stenhouse went on a trading voyage to Iceland. The \"Annie\" carried cargo on the outward trip but was nearly wrecked when sailing around the coast of Iceland to pick up cargo from a remote port for the return trip to England. Poor weather and sea conditions kept the \"Annie\" in Iceland until February 1921, when Worsley was able to carry freight back to Britain. By then Shackleton was ready to proceed with his expedition and wanted Worsley as the captain of his ship, the \"Quest\", an offer which he quickly accepted.\n\nAfter the Canadian government withdrew promised financial support for the expedition, the delay in finding replacement funding ate into the Arctic sailing season. Shackleton, not wanting to delay departure any longer than he had to, decided to go south instead and attempt a circumnavigation of the Antarctic continent. The expedition, known as the Shackleton–Rowett Expedition (John Rowett, an old friend of Shackleton's, was the main sponsor), would also attempt to discover sub-Antarctic islands and spend the southern winter in the Pacific islands. The expedition included several \"Endurance\" veterans in addition to Worsley; Frank Wild was again second in command, and Leonard Hussey was the meteorologist. Worsley was the master of the \"Quest\", but would also be the expedition's hydrographer.\n\nThe \"Quest\", a two-masted sealing ship sourced from Norway, set sail on 18 September 1921. Problems soon arose; the ship did not sail well and it leaked. There were also problems with the engine. A week was spent in Portugal undergoing repairs, and after crossing the Atlantic, the \"Quest\" spent a month in the docks of Rio de Janeiro. While in Brazil, Shackleton, whose health had been poor for some time, suffered a heart attack. After he declined treatment for his condition, the expedition left for South Georgia on 18 December. The island was sighted on 4 January 1922 and both Worsley and Shackleton were \"like a pair of excitable kids\", pointing out landmarks from their walk across South Georgia back in 1916. The following day, Shackleton suffered a fatal heart attack. Worsley described the loss of his friend as \"...a terribly sad blow. I have lost a dear pal, one of the whitest men, in spite of his faults, that ever lived.\"\n\nDespite this setback, the expedition continued with Wild in command while Hussey returned to England with Shackleton's body. On 22 January, Worsley suffered a serious accident. Under sail, the \"Quest\" had been rolling heavily and ropes securing a lifeboat snapped. The lifeboat, full of stores, swung against the wheelhouse and crushed Worsley against the bridge. He broke several ribs and had to rest for several days. By the end of March, after being briefly trapped in ice in the Weddell Sea, the ship reached Elephant Island. The expedition then returned to South Georgia, where Hussey was waiting. Shackleton's widow had directed that he be buried on South Georgia and Hussey had returned to the island in late February to fulfil her request.\n\nWorsley and the rest of the expedition spent several weeks on South Georgia, and he assisted in the building of a memorial cairn to Shackleton in King Edward Cove. The expedition then sailed for Tristan da Cunha, where Worsley carried out some mapping work. Other stops were made at Cape Town, Ascension Island and Saint Helena before the expedition arrived back in England in September 1922.\n\nThe Atlantic shipping trade occupied Worsley after his return to England. He was master of the \"George Cochran\" for a time in 1923, shipping rum to Montreal. The following year he was in command of the \"Kathleen Annie\" when it was wrecked in the Orkney Islands. He ensured the evacuation of his crew before leaving the stricken ship for the safety of the shore.\n\nDuring his time in Canada, Worsley had made the acquaintance of a young Canadian, Grettir Algarsson, who was of Icelandic descent and was preparing a ship for a voyage to the Arctic. Algarsson's voyage proved short-lived, as his ship collided with floating wreckage while in the North Sea. Undeterred, he set about preparing an expedition for the following year and invited Worsley, who had provided advice for his previous voyage, to join him. The plan was to sail to Spitzbergen, in the Arctic Circle, and Algarsson was to fly from there to the North Pole where he would crash the plane, and, with his pilot, sledge back. Worsley was to captain the ship that Algarsson had purchased for the expedition, a diesel-engined brigatine called the \"Island\". A lack of funds resulted in the cancellation of the planned flight as a suitable plane could not be found. However, the 15-man expedition, known as the Algarsson North Polar Expedition, went ahead with certain mapping and scientific objectives, among them a search for Gillis Land, northeast of Spitzbergen, which had not been sighted since 1707, as well as sounding the continental shelf between Spitzbergen and Franz Josef Land. With the plane flight no longer viable, and the focus of the expedition now primarily on maritime matters, Algarsson offered Worsley co-leadership of the expedition, which he accepted. The \"Island\" sailed on 21 June 1925 from Liverpool.\n\nWhen sailing the western side of Spitzbergen, a blade of the propeller of the \"Island\" was damaged in a collision with an ice floe. When the engine was run, severe vibration was felt and this forced Worsley to continue northwards under sail, searching for Gillis Land until the ship reached the pack ice. While doing so, soundings were taken which confirmed the presence of a submarine plain between Spitzbergen and the island group of Franz Josef Land. Turning south and sailing along the northern coast of Spitzbergen, a previously uncharted harbour was found, which Algarsson named after Worsley. The ship then sailed north, still seeking Gillis Land, but became trapped in the ice. Worsley took the opportunity to create an ice dock to facilitate repairs to the rudder, which had become damaged. After two weeks beset in the ice, he used the engine to break free but the last blade of the propeller was lost in the process.\n\nThe \"Island\" was now effectively without an engine, a prospect that did not daunt Worsley as he sailed for Franz Josef Land. He described it as \"sail's last unaided battle with the polar pack [pack ice]\". In August he landed on Cape Barents, one of the southern islands of Franz Josef Land, and planted a Union Jack. Together with the ship's engineer who was from Dunedin, he claimed to be the first New Zealander to set foot on Franz Josef Land. The expedition, which had been renamed the British Arctic Expedition with the consensus of the participants, made several attempts to find a way northwards through the pack ice, Worsley harbouring hopes of being the first sailing ship to sail through the island group to Gillis Land and then back to Spitzbergen, but was unsuccessful. In one attempt, the \"Island\" nearly collided with a large iceberg, but Worsley ordered a rowboat to take to the water and the ship was towed out of harm's way.\n\nFinally, on 14 September, what was thought to be Gillis Land was spotted several miles away. The \"Island\" was unable to sail close enough to confirm the sighting, but Worsley noted that it was to the west of its charted position. If it was Gillis Land, it was the first sighting of the island for 200 years (Gillis Land no longer appears on modern charts). The ship then sailed to North-East Land, circumnavigating it and while doing so reaching the expedition's farthest north, 81°15′N. Worsley ensured the New Zealand flag was flown at the spot. The expedition then set sail for Spitzbergen, reaching the island's Green Harbour in mid-October. The ship's engine could not be repaired before Green Harbour was closed for winter and Worsley accepted a tow to Tromsø, the conclusion of which marked the end of the expedition. He later wrote a book of the voyage, \"Under Sail in the Frozen North\", which was published in 1927.\n\nAfter the completion of his Arctic voyage, Worsley returned to life in London, where he had a reasonably high-profile due to his exploits with Shackleton and his wartime service. In 1926, he married Jean Cumming, who he had met in 1920 at New Zealand House in London while collecting his mail. It was his second marriage; in 1907 he had married Theodora Blackden but she had left him by the time of his return from Russia (the couple had no children). It took several years for Worsley to obtain a divorce to allow his marriage to Jean, nearly 30 years his junior, to take place. For income in between trading voyages, Worsley wrote books and articles. Two of these, \"Shackleton's Boat Journey\" and \"Crossing South Georgia\" were published as serials in the periodical \"Blue Peter\" in 1924 and were well received. These books were published together as a single volume in 1931. His book was considered superior to Shackleton's own account, published as \"South\" in 1919. In 1938, a fourth book, \"First Voyage in a Square-rigged Ship\" was published. When his financial circumstances required it, which was often, Worsley would write an article for money. His topics would range from the dogs used on the expedition to the pipe smoking habits of his Elephant Island cohabitants.\n\nWorsley also conducted lecturing tours for income, his profile enhanced by his publication record. As sailing commissions at this late stage of his life were in short supply, his lectures became more important as a source of income. He mainly lectured on his voyages with Shackleton, whose wife lent Worsley several of her late husband's slides to enhance his talks. In later years, he added talks on his own voyages to his repertoire. His lectures were well received with glowing reviews in local newspapers. His profile was boosted following his appearance in the film \"South\", released in 1933, for which he provided an accent-free narration. The film was based on Frank Hurley's cine film of the \"Endurance\" expedition, intercut with photographic slides. He made an onscreen appearance in the film, showing the audience several artefacts from the expedition. Like his books, the film was very well received.\n\nIn the 1930s, Worsley was part of a yacht and ship delivery company, Imray Laurie Norie & Wilson Limited. His personal experience was a key selling point in the company's commercial literature. In 1937, the company completed over 50 delivery voyages. The longest delivery was that of a steamer destined for Hong Kong, which took three months. On many of these voyages he was accompanied by Jean, who also enjoyed sailing.\n\nEven into his 60s, Worsley still sought adventure. In 1934, he was asked to join the Treasury Recovery Limited Expedition which was organised to locate treasure allegedly hidden at Cocos Island by pirates. In earlier times, the island had been used as a base by the pirates to attack Spanish ships transporting gold from South America back to Spain. At the time of mounting the expedition, it was believed that between £5 million and £25 million in gold and silver was buried on the island. Worsley sailed, with Jean for company, for Cocos Island in September 1934 aboard the \"Queen of Scots\". On arrival at the island in October, he assisted in unloading stores to set up a village at Wafer Bay, the safest landing point on Cocos. The island, off the coast of Costa Rica, was heavily forested and hard labour was necessary to clear likely spots for searching. As the \"Queen of Scots\" was found to be too large for the expedition's needs, Worsley left with the ship to return to England via the Panama Canal. He was to source a replacement vessel and bring back supplies.\n\nEn route, Worsley found that the government of Costa Rica, unhappy at not being informed of the expedition's plans, intended to forcibly remove the treasure hunters from Cocos Island. Despite Worsley's dispatch of a personal cable to the Costa Rican president, and ensuing publicity in England, some of the expedition's men were forcibly taken to Panama. The others remained on Cocos under guard. By this time, the leaders of the expedition had returned to England, leaving Worsley as controller of the remaining men. He funded supplies for the remaining men from his own pocket but eventually those remaining on Cocos were shipped to Panama and discharged.\n\nThe expedition regathered, and after obtaining a concession from the Costa Rican government, returned to the island the following year. He sailed the expedition's new yacht, \"Veracity\", from England to Cocos Island in a troubled voyage, again accompanied by Jean. The expedition was underfunded and supplies were lacking. Mechanical failure while en-route also hampered the voyage. By the time of his arrival on Cocos, he had been appointed the controller of the expedition. Despite extensive searching with a crude metal detector, no trace of the treasure had been found by September. Worsley, with a lecture season beginning in London in October, left the island in early September. This was his last involvement with the expedition which, after nine more months, failed to locate the treasure hunt. The expedition ended when funding ran out. Despite the lack of success, Worsley still believed treasure was to be found on the island and hoped to return. He never did, although his treasure hunting exploits provided plenty of material for his lecture tours.\n\nWhen the Second World War broke out in September 1939, Worsley was keen to contribute to the war effort. His age of 67 prevented his recall to the Royal Navy Reserve. He eventually joined the International Red Cross and travelled to France where he lectured troops of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) during the Phoney War. He also sought support from the War Office to provide equipment to Swedish volunteers travelling to Finland to assist its countrymen in fighting the Russians during the brief Winter War. When another BEF was sent to Norway in April 1940 to help secure railway links to Sweden, the Red Cross, intending to have a unit in the country as well, appointed Worsley as its \"Advance Agent – Norway\". He was to prepare the way for the unit but after the Germans captured Narvik, it became too dangerous for the Red Cross to be involved. After a brief visit to Norway, Worsley returned to Britain. \n\nWorsley became the commander of a Red Cross training depot in Balham, London, but it later closed down due to a lack of recruits. He repeatedly wrote to the War Office offering his services and proposing various schemes involving Norway, including one to land guns at Spitzbergen, an area he knew well from his Arctic expedition in 1925.\n\nEventually, Worsley found a command in the Merchant Navy, and, giving his age as 64 (he was actually 69), was appointed master of the \"Dalriada\" in August 1941. He worked to keep the harbour entrance at Sheerness clear of wrecked shipping and also carried out salvage work. His command was only for a few months for when the company that owned his vessel found out his true age, he was replaced. Unhappy at being put into the Merchant Navy Reserve Pool, he continued to advocate for a useful posting.\n\nIn April 1942, Worsley was appointed to the staff at a training establishment for the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve, HMS \"King Alfred\" in Sussex, giving lectures on charts and pilotage. After two months he was transferred to the Royal Naval College, Greenwich. While in Sussex, his health began to deteriorate and he cut down on his pipe smoking. After a few months at Greenwich, he took ill and was hospitalised. Diagnosed with lung cancer, naval doctors found that they could do little for Worsley, and he was discharged. He opted to spend the last days of his life with his wife and the Bamford family, good friends who lived in Claygate, Surrey. He died in the Bamford house on 1 February 1943. He was cremated after a well attended service held on 3 February at the chapel of the Royal Navy College. His casket was adorned with the New Zealand ensign and Worsley's personal standard that he had flown aboard the \"Quest\" in the 1921–22 expedition. His ashes were scattered at the mouth of the Thames River, near the Nore lightship.\n\nAfter Worsley's death, Jean Worsley donated his unpublished diaries to the Scott Polar Research Institute. She returned to Aberdeen, where she had spent much of the previous months, to live with her mother. Jean later moved to Claygate following the death of her mother, and lived with the Bamfords. Her final years were spent in relative financial comfort; several years before his death, Worsley had invested in shares in Venezuela Oil, which later became Shell Oil and provided good returns for Jean. She died at the Bamford home in 1978, at the age of 78, and in the same room that her husband had occupied at the time of his death. The couple were childless.\n\nA bust of Frank Worsley stands in his home town of Akaroa, New Zealand. The sculpture was created by artist Stephen Gleeson of Christchurch, and unveiled in 2004. The town's museum also displays the ensign from Worsley's former command, the \"PC.61\".\n\nSeveral geographical features are named for Worsley, including Mount Worsley on South Georgia, Cape Worsley in the British Antarctic Territory, the Worsley Icefalls in the Ross Dependency and Worsley Harbour at Spitzbergen. Worsleys Road in the Christchurch suburb of Cracroft is named for his grandfather; it was built by him as an access road for his farm.\n\nIn 2015, of land at Akaroa, on which his childhood home stood, were purchased by the New Zealand Native Forest Restoration Trust. The land borders onto Hinewai Reserve, with its staff managing the long process of native forest establishing itself again and building walking tracks. The Rod Donald Banks Peninsula Trust, Akaroa Museum, and Hinewai staff will erect information panels at the house site. As a teenager, Worsley helped with clearing bush on Banks Peninsula that is now being restored, and he wrote later in life:\n\nIt was a mad waste. The colonists in their greed for more grass seed and sheep pasture burned millions of pounds worth of timber. They recklessly destroyed the wonderful beauty of the bush, baring the soil until it was carried away by landslides, and lowered the rainfall, and laid waste the homes of countless sweet songsters.\n\n"}
{"id": "19548467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19548467", "title": "Genetic Engineering (song)", "text": "Genetic Engineering (song)\n\n\"Genetic Engineering\" is a song by British band Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark, released as the first single from their fourth studio album \"Dazzle Ships\". The synthesized speech featured on the track is taken from a Speak & Spell, an educational electronic toy developed by Texas Instruments in the 1970s intended to teach children with spelling.\n\nCharting at number 20 on the UK Singles Chart, \"Genetic Engineering\" ended the band's run of four consecutive Top 10 hits in the UK. It was also a Top 20 hit in several European territories, and peaked at number 5 in Spain. It missed the United States \"Billboard\" Hot 100 but made number 32 on the Mainstream Rock chart.\n\nJim Reid in \"Record Mirror\" wrote: \"Madly infectious hook-line propels a song absolutely dripping with 'moderne' references. A cold record, whose raison d'être lies in the application of studio technology and the manipulation of hackneyed gobbledegook. Should be massive – won't touch my turntable again.\" In \"Melody Maker\", Paul Simper dismissed the track as \"a load of old tosh\".\n\nUS critic Ned Raggett praised the \"soaring\", \"enjoyable\" single in a retrospective piece for AllMusic, asserting: \"Why it wasn't a hit remains a mystery.\"\n\nFrontman Andy McCluskey has noted that the song is not an attack on genetic engineering, as many assumed at the time, including radio presenter Dave Lee Travis upon playing the song on BBC Radio 1. McCluskey stated: \"I was very positive about the subject.\" \"People didn't listen to the lyrics... I think they automatically assumed it would be anti.\"\n\nMusic journalists have suggested that the first 45 seconds of the song were a direct influence on Radiohead's \"Fitter Happier\", which appears on that band's 1997 album \"OK Computer\". Thoem Weber in Stylus argued that the Radiohead track is \"deeply indebted\" to \"Genetic Engineering\".\n\nThe new song \"4-Neu\" was featured on the B-side of both the 7\" and 12\" versions. The song was not included on the \"Dazzle Ships\" album and remained exclusive to this release until its inclusion in the \"\" album in 2001 and then on the remastered special edition of \"Dazzle Ships\" in 2008. The song continues the band's tradition of including more experimental tracks as B sides to singles. The song title is a tribute to 70's German band Neu!, a Krautrock band that were an important influence on Andy McCluskey and Paul Humphreys prior to OMD. \"4-Neu\" was never performed live until the special performance of \"Dazzle Ships\" at The Museum of Liverpool in November 2014 and at the \"Dazzle Ships / Architecture & Morality\" live performances in London and Germany in May 2016.\n\nSide one\nSide two\n\nSide one\nSide two\n\nA promotional video for \"Genetic Engineering\" was made and is included on the \"Messages - Greatest Hits\" CD/DVD release (2008).\n\nApart from the extended '312 mm version' the band also recorded the song for a John Peel radio session in 1983. This version was made available on the Peel Sessions 1979-1983 album release (2000).\n\nOMD played the song live on The Tube during its first series in February 1983.\n\nThe song was performed live during the \"Dazzle Ships\" promotional tour but rarely since then, until more recent live performances shows in 2014 and 2016.\n\n\"Genetic Engineering\" was covered by indie rock band Eggs and released as a single in 1994.\n\nIt was also covered by Another Sunny Day as a limited edition single in 1989 and as an extra track on the re-release of on their 'London Weekend' album.\n\nOptiganally Yours recorded a cover for a \"very low-key tribute compilation\".\n\nMore recently, it has been covered by the indie rock band Oxford Collapse as part of the \"Hann-Byrd\" EP released in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "31028325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31028325", "title": "HUDF-JD2", "text": "HUDF-JD2\n\nHUDF-JD2 (UDF 033238.7 -274839.8 or BBG 3179) is a distant, massive, post-starburst galaxy\nthat was discovered with the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) image. It was the most distant galaxy identified in the HUDF, in 2005. It is located at in the constellation of Fornax.\n\nIn a 2005 search for very red galaxies in the HUDF that were not detected at wavelengths shorter than the near-infrared J band, two objects were detected. The second, initially designated UDF033238.7-274839.8, displayed a high redshift and showed characteristics of a post-starburst galaxy. The derived photometric redshift yielded \"z\" approximately equal to 6.5, which indicates it is most likely being viewed from a time when the Universe was only 830 million years old. The estimated bolometric luminosity of this galaxy is a trillion (10) times the solar luminosity (the luminosity of the Sun) and it has a mass of approximately .\n\nThe spectrum of this object indicates that most of its energy is being emitted by stars with three solar masses or less. Hence, as larger stars will exist for shorter periods, this galaxy has an age of more than 300 million years. The period of initial active star formation in this galaxy may have lasted less than 100 million years, during which the galaxy likely participated in the reionization event.\n\nThe unusually high mass estimate for this object may be explained by other factors. If it has an active galactic nucleus, this may reduce the mass estimate to half the current value. The estimate could also be effected by gravitational lensing, although it is too far away from the nearest visible object that could produce that effect: a foreground spiral galaxy located 7″.3 distant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40459735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40459735", "title": "High-Flux Advanced Neutron Application Reactor", "text": "High-Flux Advanced Neutron Application Reactor\n\nThe High-Flux Advanced Neutron Application Reactor (HANARO) (하나로) is a 30 MW multi-purpose research reactor located at Daejeon, Republic of Korea. It was designed by Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (KAERI) as a facility for research and development on the neutron science and its applications.\nHANARO has been playing a significant role as a national facility in the area of neutron science, the production of key radioisotopes, material testing for power reactor application, neutron transmutation doping (NTD), neutron activation analysis, and neutron radiography. After the installation of a cold neutron source in 2010, it has been also serving as a regional and international facility for neutron science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "672080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672080", "title": "Homentropic flow", "text": "Homentropic flow\n\nIn fluid mechanics, a homentropic flow has uniform and constant entropy. It distinguishes itself from an isentropic or particle isentropic flow, where the entropy level of each fluid particle does not change with time, but may vary from particle to particle. This means that a homentropic flow is necessarily isentropic, but an isentropic flow need not be homentropic.\n"}
{"id": "40695880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40695880", "title": "Ibn al-Adami", "text": "Ibn al-Adami\n\nIbn al‐Ādamī (flourished in\nBaghdad, c. 925), was a 10th-century Islamic astronomer who wrote an influential work of zij based on Indian sources. The book, now lost, uses the Indian methods found in the \"Sindhind\". The 11th-century historian Sa'id al-Andalusi informs us that the theory of trepidation that became known to Europe and was ascribed to Thabit ibn Qurra can be found instead in the Zij of Ibn al-Adami, who himself may have known of this theory from Thabit's grandon, Ibrahim ibn Sinan. Ibn al-Adami is also the source for the story of how Indian astronomy reached the court of Caliph al-Mansur in the early 770s in Baghdad.\n\nPresumably, he is the son of Al-Adami.\n"}
{"id": "4778898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4778898", "title": "Institute for Science and International Security", "text": "Institute for Science and International Security\n\nThe Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS) is a nonprofit, non-governmental institution to inform the public about \"science and policy issues affecting international security.\" Founded in 1993, the group is led by founder and former United Nations IAEA nuclear inspector David Albright.\nISIS was founded on a belief that scientists have an obligation to participate actively in solving major problems of national and international security. ISIS focuses primarily on four parts: 1) prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and related technology to other nations and terrorists, 2) lead to greater transparency of nuclear activities worldwide, 3) reinforce the international non-proliferation regime, and 4) cut down nuclear arsenals. Furthermore, ISIS seeks to build stable foundations for various efforts to reduce the threat posed by nuclear weapons to U.S. and international security by integrating technical, scientific and policy research. As the effectiveness of ISIS was appreciated and recognized in the Global “Go-To Think Tanks” rankings, ISIS consistently places in the top 25 Science and Technology Think Tanks in the world and in 2015 placed as one of the top United States and foreign policy think tanks in the world.\n\nISIS's board consists of the following members:\n\n\nISIS has been funded by: Ploughshares Fund, The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Carnegie Corporation of New York, Colombe Foundation, New-Land Foundation, The Prospect Hill Foundation, United States Institute of Peace, The International Atomic Energy Agency, Ford Foundation, The Scherman Foundation, Smith Richardson Foundation, Compton Foundation, The Stanley Foundation, The John Merck Fund, The Rockefeller Foundation, The Rockefeller Brothers Fund, W. Alton Jones Foundation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, United States Department of Energy\n\nISIS's staff consists of the following people:\nResearch Fellows,\nInterning Research Associates,\nTechnical Consultants\n\nThe institute regularly publishes technical analyses of nuclear proliferation programs by examining technical data and satellite imagery. ISIS is cited in non-proliferation circles and in international media regarding its analysis. The majority of the current material produced by ISIS is focused on the analysis and monitoring of the nuclear programs of North Korea, Iran, Pakistan, Syria, and cases of worldwide illicit nuclear trade.\n\nIn August 1991, David Albright and Mark Hibbs, writing for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists wrote that there were many technological challenges unsolved with Iraq's nuclear program. Albright and Hibbs wrote that Iraq's nuclear program \"was so primitive that the international sanctions put in place after the August 2 invasion may have had more substantive effect than the tons of bombs dropped by U.S. and allied planes five months later\".\n\nIn an October 2002 posting ISIS published a report which said \"One of the most significant accomplishments of the intrusive inspections mandated by UN Security Council in 1991 is that Iraq is not believed to have nuclear weapons now. This single accomplishment demonstrates both the power and value of intrusive nuclear inspections in Iraq.\" The report further argued that \"the nuclear inspection process provided a powerful deterrent against Iraq reconstituting its nuclear weapons program until inspectors left in late 1998.\"\n\nISIS has been following since the 1990s the circumstances surrounding the Iranian nuclear program and has created a website dedicated to informing readers about the history of Iran's nuclear program and facilities, providing IAEA reports, providing information about diplomatic efforts, and providing ISIS technical assessments.\n\nA June 2009 posting on ISIS argued that \"we do know that a lasting, military solution to Iran’s nuclear program is not realistic. This leaves diplomacy as the best route to bring about a suspension of Iran’s uranium enrichment program, regardless of who holds Iran’s presidency.\"\n\nOn October 2, 2009 ISIS posted a subject to revision working document by IAEA safeguards experts which it described as an \"Internal IAEA Document on Alleged Iranian Nuclear Weaponization\". The document led media to report that Iran has tested a two-point implosion design. Gordon Oehler, who ran the CIA’s nonproliferation center and served as deputy director of the presidential commission on weapons of mass destruction, wrote “if someone has a good idea for a missile program, and he has really good connections, he’ll get that program through.. But that doesn’t mean there is a master plan for a nuclear weapon.” Outside experts noted that the parts of the report made public lack many dates associated with Iran's alleged activities. The Washington Post reported that \"nowhere are there construction orders, payment invoices, or more than a handful of names and locations possibly connected to the projects.\" Former IAEA Director Mohamed ElBaradei said the Agency didn't have any information that nuclear material has been used and didn't have any information that any components of nuclear weapons had been manufactured. Iran asserted that the documents were a fabrication, while the IAEA urged Iran to be more cooperative and Member States to provide more information about the allegations to be shared with Iran.\n\nIn December 2009, the conservative-leaning \"The Times\", working with ISIS analysis, claimed that a document from an unnamed Asian intelligence agency described the use of a neutron source which has no use other than in a nuclear weapon, and claimed the document appeared to be from an office in Iran's Defense Ministry and may have been from around 2007. The Institute for Science and International Security, said that it “urges caution and further assessment” of the document and noted that \"the document does not mention nuclear weapons .. and we have seen no evidence of an Iranian decision to build them.” Western intelligence agencies did not give any authentication to the document, while Russia noted that though the IAEA is in possession of these documents, the IAEA's findings \"do not contain any conclusions about the presence of undeclared nuclear activities in Iran.\" In response to allegations that the document was forged from Iran and some within the United States, Albright said ISIS felt \"that this document does need to be authenticated, and we welcome a debate and actually a collecting [of] information from people, people who've done linguistic analysis, inside information\".\n\nIn a January 28, 2010 report, ISIS found: \"There remain sound reasons to suspect that the military regime in Burma might be pursuing a long-term strategy to make nuclear weapons. Despite the public reports to the contrary, the military junta does not appear to be close to establishing a significant nuclear capability. Information suggesting the construction of major nuclear facilities appears unreliable or inconclusive.\" During an ASEAN meeting in Thailand in July 2009, US secretary of state Hillary Clinton highlighted concerns of the North Korean link. \"We know there are also growing concerns about military cooperation between North Korea and Burma which we take very seriously,\" Clinton said.\n\nA \"National Journal\" profile in 2004 called Albright a “go-to guy for media people seeking independent analysis on Iraq’s [weapons of mass destruction] programs.”\n\nIn 2006, David Albright received the prestigious Joseph A. Burton Forum Award from the American Physical Society, a professional society of American physicists. He was cited for \"his tireless and productive efforts to slow the transfer of nuclear weapons technology. He brings a unique combination of deep understanding, objectivity, and effectiveness to this vexed area.”\n\n"}
{"id": "1889522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1889522", "title": "Intel International Science and Engineering Fair", "text": "Intel International Science and Engineering Fair\n\nThe Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF) is a science fair and the largest pre-college scientific research event in the world, and is owned and administered by the Society for Science & the Public a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in Washington, DC. Each May, more than 1500 students from roughly 70 countries and territories compete in the fair for scholarships, tuition grants, internships, scientific field trips and the grand prizes, including one $75,000 and two $50,000 college scholarships. All prizes together amount to over $4,070,000. Two awards ceremonies are held including: Special Awards Organization Presentation (which now includes the Government Awards Presentations) and the Grand Awards Ceremony. The International Science and Engineering Fair was founded in 1950 by Science Service (now the Society for Science & the Public) and has been sponsored by the Intel Corporation since 1997. \nAs of 2012, seven ISEF alumni went on to win Nobel Prizes, with successful ISEF veterans including Jack Andraka and inventor Alex Deans.\n\nAlthough it is an international event, the United States almost always hosts it (the 1995 fair was held Hamilton, Ontario, Canada). Locations for fairs through 2020 have been decided: \n\nContestants are selected from regional, district, and state ISEF affiliated fairs. These fairs usually encompass multiple states or entire regions of a country. The regional fair committee is responsible for managing the fair when their city hosts the event.\n\nIndividual science projects and team science projects both compete for prizes. Teams are composed of two to as many as four high school students (grades 9-12).\n\nThe structure of the competition is as follows:\n\nAdditionally, time is set aside for students to experience the host city, with ISEF coordinating signups for various tours and activities. A significant component of the program is social, as students interact with each other during mixers and ceremonies. Throughout much of the week, various seminars are also held for students, mentors, and teachers.\n\n\nISEF also used to hold a \"People's Choice Award\" to allow the public to vote for its favorite entries.\n\nThe Regeneron (formerly Intel and Westinghouse) Science Talent Search is a related but separate science research competition for high school seniors studying in the United States that in previous years was also sponsored and named after Intel Corporation. Begun in 1942 as a partnership with Westinghouse, then in 1998 with Intel, and then in 2016 with Regeneron, the Society for Science and the Public selects 40 contestants annually to present each's original research to the general public and members of the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "39182326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39182326", "title": "John Elliott Nafe", "text": "John Elliott Nafe\n\nJohn Elliott (Jack) Nafe (July 22, 1914 in Seattle – April 6, 1996) was an American oceanographer and geophysicist best known for his work on acoustic propagation in the oceans and solid earth.\n\nBorn in Seattle, Nafe received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan in 1938. He then served in the United States Merchant Marine, leaving to begin graduate studies at Washington University. He obtained an MS degree in 1940, then joined the Navy during World War II, during which he taught physics and engineering at the U.S. Naval Academy.\n\nReturning to graduate studies at Columbia University after the war, he worked with I.I. Rabi on a celebrated experiment that determined the magnetic moment of the hydrogen atom. He received his Ph.D. in 1948.\n\nNafe was for three years a faculty member at the University of Minnesota, then returned to Columbia's Lamont Geological Observatory, where he began to study the acoustic properties of the oceans as they are affected by temperature, salinity and pressure. For the U.S. Navy, he worked on a listening system for detecting submerged submarines at long distances.\n\nNafe's acoustical research later turned to the solid earth, where he was among the first to develop an accurate relation between density and seismic velocity, allowing inferences about the structure of the Earth.\n\nNafe was chair of Columbia's geology department from 1962 to 1965. He suffered a severe stroke in 1976 and retired to Vancouver in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "40670646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40670646", "title": "Joint Committee for Guides in Metrology", "text": "Joint Committee for Guides in Metrology\n\nThe Joint Committee for Guides in Metrology (JCGM), is an organization in Sèvres that prepared the \"Guide to the expression of uncertainty in measurement\" (GUM) and the \"International vocabulary of metrology – basic and general concepts and associated terms\" (VIM). The JCGM assumed responsibility for these two documents from the ISO Technical\nAdvisory Group 4 (TAG4).\n\nPartner organizations below send representatives into the JCGM:\n\nJCGM has two Working Groups. Working Group 1, \"Expression of uncertainty in measurement\", has the task to promote the use of the GUM and to prepare Supplements and other documents for its broad application. Working Group 2, \"Working Group on International vocabulary of basic and general terms in metrology (VIM)\", has the task to revise and promote the use of the VIM. For further information on the activity of the JCGM, see www.bipm.org.\n\nThe Guide to the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement (GUM) is a document published by the JCGM that establishes general rules for evaluating and expressing uncertainty in measurement.\n\nThe GUM provides a way to express the perceived quality of the result of a measurement. Rather than express the result by providing an estimate of the measurand along with information about systematic and random error values (in the form of an \"error analysis\"), the GUM approach is to express the result of a measurement as an estimate of the measurand along with an associated measurement uncertainty.\n\nOne of the basic premises of the GUM approach is that it is possible to characterize the quality of a measurement by accounting for both systematic and random errors on a comparable footing, and a method is provided for doing that. This method refines the information previously provided in an \"error analysis\", and puts it on a probabilistic basis through the concept of measurement uncertainty.\n\nAnother basic premise of the GUM approach is that it is not possible to state how well the true value of the measurand is known, but only how well it is believed to be known. Measurement uncertainty can therefore be described as a measure of how well one believes one knows the true value of the measurand. This uncertainty reflects the incomplete knowledge of the measurand.\n\nThe notion of \"belief\" is an important one, since it moves metrology into a realm where results of measurement need to be considered and quantified in terms of probabilities that express degrees of belief.\n\nFor a review on other applicable measurement uncertainty guidance documents see.\n\nThe International vocabulary of metrology (VIM) is an attempt to find a common language and terminology in metrology, i.e. the science of measurements, across different fields of science, legislature and commerce. The 3rd edition was developed using the principles of terminology work (ISO 704:2000 Terminology Work—Principles and Methods; ISO 1087-1:2000 Terminology Work—Vocabulary—Part 1:Theory and Application; ISO 10241:1992 International Terminology Standards—Preparation and Layout).\n\nThe VIM is the most global attempt to standardize terminology across different fields of science, legislature, commerce and trade. The vocabulary has the following content:\n\nIt can be downloaded here: \n\nNewer versions and corrigenda are available here: \n\nAcceptance of VIM standards is rather good in legislature, commerce and trade where it is often legally required. Acceptance is also good in textbooks and many fields of sciences. There are, however, some fields of science that stick to their traditional jargon, most notably theoretical physics and mass spectrometry.\n\nRevision by Working Group 1 of the GUM itself is under way, in parallel with work on preparing documents in a series of JCGM documents under the generic heading Evaluation of measurement data. The parts in the series are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1853778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853778", "title": "Lindsay Eddie", "text": "Lindsay Eddie\n\nLindsay Atkins Eddie (1845 – 13 October 1913) was a South-African amateur astronomer. The son of an Army surgeon, Eddie also saw active military service, serving with distinction during the Kafir invasion in 1876. His final rank was that of a Major.\n\nDuring his career he observed 21 comets, mostly from Grahamstown, South Africa. He observed a transit of Mercury in 1894. In 1907 he studied the planet Mars with great detail and published drawings that were highly acclaimed.\n\nHe was an elected fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society. A crater on Mars is named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21707086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21707086", "title": "List of Reginald Fessenden patents", "text": "List of Reginald Fessenden patents\n\nThe list of Reginald Fessenden patents contains the innovation of his pioneering experiments. Reginald Aubrey Fessenden received hundreds of patents for devices in fields such as high-powered transmitting, sonar, and television. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8761326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8761326", "title": "List of countries by southernmost point", "text": "List of countries by southernmost point\n\nThis is a list of countries by southernmost point on land. Where borders are contested, the southernmost point under the control of a nation is listed, excluding points within Antarctica and its outlying islands south of 60°S. A selection of dependent territories is listed, but not ranked.\n"}
{"id": "48671216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48671216", "title": "List of isomers of tridecane", "text": "List of isomers of tridecane\n\nThis is the list of the 802 isomers of tridecane, with their IUPAC names.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28969215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28969215", "title": "List of medical schools in the Philippines", "text": "List of medical schools in the Philippines\n\nThis is a list of medical schools located in the Philippines. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30872539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872539", "title": "List of ornithology journals", "text": "List of ornithology journals\n\nThe following is a list of journals and magazines relating to birding and ornithology. The continent and country columns give the location the article is published and may not correspond with the scope of the article's content.\n\n"}
{"id": "4011776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4011776", "title": "Oppenheimer Diamond", "text": "Oppenheimer Diamond\n\nThe Oppenheimer Diamond, a nearly perfectly formed yellow diamond crystal, is one of the largest uncut diamonds in the world, and measures approximately 20 × 20 millimeters. It was discovered in the Dutoitspan Mine, Kimberley, South Africa, in 1964. Harry Winston acquired the stone and presented it to the Smithsonian Institution in memory of Sir Ernest Oppenheimer.\n\n"}
{"id": "20510749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20510749", "title": "Partial impact theory", "text": "Partial impact theory\n\nPartial impact theory is an astronomical theory describing the partial collision of two stars and the temporary creation of a bright third star as a consequence. The theory was explained in Alexander William Bickerton's book \"The Romance of the Heavens\" published in 1901.\n\nIn \"The Romance of the Heavens\" Bickerton states that a slight \"grazing\" collision between stars would be much more common than a head on impact between stars. So he believed this phenomenon needed to be explained to account for the appearance of bright new stars that would appear in the night sky and disappear within a year or even days.\n\nThe theory explains that when the two stellar bodies graze each other, the grazed parts will shear off from the main body of each star. Their velocity will cancel each other's out transforming this energy into heat. While the main mass of each star will continue moving as they did before the collision. The third body created from the two sheared parts of the stars will form between the two original stars.\n\nThe temporary star expands after the impact displaying an intense increase in light, after all molecular reactions have taken place the light is replaced by a hollow shell of gas or possibly a planetary nebula, and eventually dissipates into space. Bickerton explains this bright temporary star by saying that it doesn't disappear due to cooling, but that it was too hot to hold together.\n\nThe temperature of the third star, isn't dependent on the amount of contact between the two original stars, but rather the chemical makeup of the stars and their velocities going into the collision. The stability of the third body depends on the size of the contact of the original stars, if the contact was small then the mass of the newly created third body will find it harder to attract molecules to it. Rather than if it had a larger mass where molecules would find it more difficult to escape from its larger gravitational pull.\n"}
{"id": "17586014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17586014", "title": "Pedestrian village", "text": "Pedestrian village\n\nA pedestrian village is a compact, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood or town, with a mixed-use village center, that follows the tenets of New Pedestrianism. Shared-use lanes for pedestrians and those using bicycles, Segways, wheelchairs, and other small rolling conveyances that do not use internal combustion engines. Generally, these lanes are in front of the houses and businesses, and streets for motor vehicles are always at the rear. Some pedestrian villages might be nearly car-free with cars either hidden below the buildings or on the periphery of the village. Venice, Italy is essentially a pedestrian village with canals. The canal district in Venice, California, on the other hand, combines the front lane/rear street approach with canals and walkways, or just walkways. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1692795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692795", "title": "Physics (Aristotle)", "text": "Physics (Aristotle)\n\nThe Physics (Greek: Φυσικὴ ἀκρόασις \"Phusike akroasis\"; Latin: \"Physica\", or \"Naturalis Auscultationes\", possibly meaning \"lectures on nature\") is a named text, written in ancient Greek, collated from a collection of surviving manuscripts known as the Corpus Aristotelicum because attributed to the 4th-century BC philosopher, teacher, and mentor of Macedonian rulers, Aristotle. Due to the unique educational methods of the Athenian school founded by Aristotle, the Lyceum, at the period of its greatest success, and the accidental circumstances surrounding the disposition and rediscovery of its library after his death, it is possible to say that without a doubt some of that library descends to the \"Corpus\" and that some must be attributed mainly or entirely to Aristotle, but it is not possible to say for sure which works. The two answers excluded by the circumstances are \"all\" and \"none\".\n\nStandard epistemological method has been to accept the entire \"Corpus\" tentatively as genuine; that is, transmitted by manuscript copying from one or more original manuscripts in the library. As soon as evidence is perceived or discovered to make a case that a work is not Aristotle's, it is crossed out, but left in the list. Such a cross-out does not mean that its author was not influenced by Aristotle, or did not have Aristotle's work in front of him.\n\nIt is a collection of treatises or lessons that deal with the most general (philosophical) principles of natural or moving things, both living and non-living, rather than physical theories (in the modern sense) or investigations of the particular contents of the universe. The chief purpose of the work is to discover the principles and causes of (and not merely to describe) change, or movement, or motion (κίνησις \"kinesis\"), especially that of natural wholes (mostly living things, but also inanimate wholes like the cosmos). In the conventional Andronicean ordering of Aristotle's works, it stands at the head of, as well as being foundational to, the long series of physical, cosmological and biological treatises, whose ancient Greek title, τὰ φυσικά, means \"the [writings] on nature\" or \"natural philosophy\".\n\nThe \"Physics\" is composed of eight books, which are further divided into chapters. This system is of ancient origin, now obscure. In modern languages, books are referenced with Roman numerals, standing for ancient Greek capital letters (the Greeks represented numbers with letters; i.e., I for A). Chapters are identified by Arabic numerals, but the use of the English word \"chapter\" is strictly conventional. Ancient \"chapters\" (capita) are generally very short, often less than a page. Additionally, the Bekker numbers give the page and column (a or b) used in the Prussian Academy of Sciences' edition of Aristotle's works, instigated and managed by Bekker himself. These are evident in the 1831 2-volume edition. Bekker's line numbers may be given. These are often given, but unless the edition is the Academy's, they do match any line counts.\n\nBook I introduces the Aristotle's approach to nature, which is to be based on principles, causes, and elements. Before offering his particular views, he engages previous theories, such as those offered by Melissus and Parmenides. Aristotle's own view comes out in Ch. 7 where he identifies three principles: substances, opposites, and privation.\n\nChapters 3 and 4 are among the most difficult in all of Aristotle's works and involve subtle refutations of the thought of Parmenides, Melissus and Anaxagoras.\n\nIn chapter 5, he continues his review of his predecessors, particularly how many first principles there are. Chapter 6 narrows down the number of principles to two or three. He presents his own account of the subject in chapter 7, where he first introduces the word matter (Greek: \"hyle\" to designate fundamental essence (ousia). He defines matter in chapter 9: \"For my definition of matter is just this—the primary substratum of each thing, from which it comes to be without qualification, and which persists in the result.\"\n\nMatter in Aristotle's thought is, however, defined in terms of sensible reality; for example, a horse eats grass: the horse changes the grass into itself; the grass as such does not persist in the horse, but some aspect of itits matterdoes. Matter is not specifically described, but consists of whatever is apart from quality or quantity and that of which something may be predicated. Matter in this understanding does not exist independently (i.e. as a substance), but exists interdependently (i.e. as a \"principle\") with form and only insofar as it underlies change. Matter and form are analogical terms.\n\nBook II identifies \"nature\" (\"physis\") as \"a source or cause of being moved and of being at rest in that to which it belongs primarily\" (1.192b21). Thus, those entities are natural which are capable of starting to move, e.g. growing, acquiring qualities, displacing themselves, and finally being born and dying. Aristotle contrasts natural things with the artificial: artificial things can move also, but they move according to what they are made of, not according to what they are. For example, if a wooden bed were buried and somehow sprouted as a tree, it would be according to what it is made of, not what it is. Aristotle contrasts two senses of nature: nature as matter and nature as form or definition.\n\nBy \"nature\", Aristotle means the natures of particular things and would perhaps be better translated \"a nature.\" In Book II, however, his appeal to \"nature\" as a source of activities is more typically to the genera of natural kinds (the secondary substance). But, contra Plato, Aristotle attempts to resolve a philosophical quandary that was well understood in the fourth century. The Eudoxian planetary model sufficed for the wandering stars, but no deduction of terrestrial substance would be forthcoming based solely on the mechanical principles of necessity, (ascribed by Aristotle to material causation in chapter 9). In the Enlightenment, centuries before modern science made good on atomist intuitions, a nominal allegiance to mechanistic materialism gained popularity despite harboring Newton's action at distance, and comprising the native habitat of teleological arguments: Machines or artifacts composed of parts lacking any intrinsic relationship to each other with their order imposed from without. Thus, the source of an apparent thing's activities is not the whole itself, but its parts. While Aristotle asserts that the matter (and parts) are a necessary cause of thingsthe material causehe says that nature is primarily the essence or formal cause (1.193b6), that is, the information, the whole species itself.\n\nIn chapter 3, Aristotle presents his theory of the four causes (material, efficient, formal, and final). Material cause explains what something is made of (for example, the wood of a house), formal cause explains the form which a thing follows to become that thing (the plans of an architect to build a house), efficient cause is the actual source of the change (the physical building of the house), and final cause is the intended purpose of the change (the final product of the house and its purpose as a shelter and home).\n\nOf particular importance is the \"final cause\" or purpose (\"telos\"). It is a common mistake to conceive of the four causes as additive or alternative forces pushing or pulling; in reality, all four are needed to explain (7.198a22-25). What we typically mean by cause in the modern scientific idiom is only a narrow part of what Aristotle means by efficient cause.\nHe contrasts purpose with the way in which \"nature\" does not work, chance (or luck), discussed in chapters 4, 5, and 6. (Chance working in the actions of humans is \"tuche\" and in unreasoning agents \"automaton\".) Something happens by chance when all the lines of causality converge without that convergence being purposefully chosen, and produce a result similar to the teleologically caused one.\n\nIn chapters 7 through 9, Aristotle returns to the discussion of nature. With the enrichment of the preceding four chapters, he concludes that nature acts for an end, and he discusses the way that necessity is present in natural things. For Aristotle, the motion of natural things is determined from within them, while in the modern empirical sciences, motion is determined from without (more properly speaking: there is nothing to have an inside).\n\nIn order to understand \"nature\" as defined in the previous book, one must understand the terms of the definition. To understand motion, book III begins with the definition of change based on Aristotle's notions of potentiality and actuality. Change, he says, is the actualization of a thing's ability insofar as it is able.\n\nThe rest of the book (chapters 4-8) discusses the infinite (\"apeiron\", the unlimited). He distinguishes between the infinite by addition and the infinite by division, and between the actually infinite and potentially infinite. He argues against the actually infinite in any form, including infinite bodies, substances, and voids. Aristotle here says the only type of infinity that exists is the potentially infinite. Aristotle characterizes this as that which serves as \"the matter for the completion of a magnitude and is potentially (but not actually) the completed whole\" (207a22-23). The infinite, lacking any form, is thereby unknowable. Aristotle writes, \"it is not what has nothing outside it that is infinite, but what always has something outside it\" (6.206b33-207a1-2).\n\nBook IV discusses the preconditions of motion: place (\"topos\", chapters 1-5), void (\"kenon\", chapters 6-9), and time (\"khronos\", chapters 10-14). The book starts by distinguishing the various ways a thing can \"be in\" another. He likens place to an immobile container or vessel: \"the innermost motionless boundary of what contains\" is the primary place of a body (4.212a20). Unlike space, which is a volume co-existent with a body, place is a boundary or surface.\n\nHe teaches that, contrary to the Atomists and others, a void is not only unnecessary, but leads to contradictions, e.g., making locomotion impossible.\n\nTime is a constant attribute of movements and, Aristotle thinks, does not exist on its own but is relative to the motions of things. Tony Roark describes Aristotle's view of time as follows:\nAristotle defines time as \"a number of motion with respect to the before and after\" (\"Phys.\" 219b1–2), by which he intends to denote motion’s susceptibility to division into undetached parts of arbitrary length, a property that it possesses both by virtue of its intrinsic nature and also by virtue of the capacities and activities of percipient souls. Motion is intrinsically indeterminate, but perceptually determinable, with respect to its length. Acts of perception function as determiners; the result is determinate units of kinetic length, which is precisely what a temporal unit is.\n\nBooks V and VI deal with \"how\" motion occurs. Book V classifies four species of movement, depending on where the opposites are located. Movement categories include quantity (e.g. a change in dimensions, from great to small), quality (as for colors: from pale to dark), place (local movements generally go from up downwards and vice versa), or, more controversially, substance. In fact, substances do not have opposites, so it is inappropriate to say that \"something\" properly becomes, from not-man, man: generation and corruption are not \"kinesis\" in the full sense.\n\nBook VI discusses how a changing thing can reach the opposite state, if it has to pass through infinite intermediate stages. It investigates by rational and logical arguments the notions of \"continuity\" and \"division\", establishing that change—and, consequently, time and place—are not divisible into indivisible parts; they are not mathematically discrete but continuous, that is, infinitely divisible (in other words, that you cannot build up a continuum out of discrete or indivisible points or moments). Among other things, this implies that there can be no definite (indivisible) moment when a motion begins. This discussion, together with that of speed and the different behavior of the four different species of motion, eventually helps Aristotle answer the famous paradoxes of Zeno, which purport to show the absurdity of motion's existence.\n\nBook VII briefly deals with the relationship of the moved to his mover, which Aristotle describes in substantial divergence with Plato's theory of the soul as capable of setting itself in motion (\"Laws\" book X, \"Phaedrus\", \"Phaedo\"). Everything which moves is moved by another. He then tries to correlate the species of motion and their speeds, with the local change (locomotion, \"phorà\") as the most fundamental to which the others can be reduced.\n\nBook VII.1-3 also exist in an alternative version, not included in the Bekker edition.\n\nBook VIII (which occupies almost a fourth of the entire \"Physics\", and probably constituted originally an independent course of lessons) discusses two main topics, though with a wide deployment of arguments: the time limits of the universe, and the existence of a Prime Mover — eternal, indivisible, without parts and without magnitude. Isn't the universe eternal, has it had a beginning, will it ever end? Aristotle's response, as a Greek, could hardly be affirmative, never having been told of a \"creatio ex nihilo,\" but he also has philosophical reasons for denying that motion had not always existed, on the grounds of the theory presented in the earlier books of the \"Physics\". Eternity of motion is also confirmed by the existence of a substance which is different from all the others in lacking matter; being pure form, it is also in an eternal actuality, not being imperfect in any respect; hence needing not to move. This is demonstrated by describing the celestial bodies thus: the first things to be moved must undergo an infinite, single and continuous movement, that is, circular. This is not caused by any contact but (integrating the view contained in the Metaphysics, bk. XII) by love and aspiration.\n\nThe works of Aristotle are typically considered foundational to Western science and philosophy. The citations below are not given as any sort of final modern judgement on the interpretation and significance of Aristotle, but are only the views of some modern notables.\n\nMartin Heidegger writes:\n\nBertrand Russell says of \"Physics\" and \"On the Heavens\" (which he believed was a continuation of \"Physics\") that they were:\nAccording to Diogenes Laertius, The library of the Lyceum at its peak under Aristotle comprised many types of books: works authored by the elders under their names, works authored by elders and young men, signatures uncertain, copies of works written by other authors on research topics, and research results of unspecified form. This same library continues under Theophrastus, acquiring more works of the same type, except that Aristotle is no longer a contributor. On the death of Theophrastus, we are led to believe, the library disappears for 200 years, having been safely abscended by Neleus. Just as suddenly it reappears, having been rescued, cared for by three editors and a powerful aristocrat, to be published in a new recension by Andronicus, and to descend to us this very day as Bekker pages. The paradox is that the recension that descends bears little resemblance to the library at Athens. It contains only books specifically authored by Aristotle with the inclusions of works later shown to be spurious. There are no works of Theophrastus or anyone else and no explanation of what happened to all the other books. The library that was rescued cannot possibly be the one that needed rescuing.\n\nRecent archaeological discoveries at Athens have verified that there was a school in the park called Lyceum and that one of the foundations fits the shape of a rectangular library. The site had in fact still been a park (or garden), and will remain one, according to the Greek government. Study of the ancient sources reveals that, regardless of its legal status, whether owned, rented, or just occupied, an organization did reside there, which called itself \"the friends\" (\"philoi\") and the establishment \"the school (\"diatribe\") of the friends.\". This was its own name, or endonym. It meant that the relationship of belonging to the school was \"completely informal.\" The name \"peripatetikoi\", those who inhabited the walkways, or \"peripatoi\", of the gymnasion in the park, is an exonym.\n\nThe friends lived in a \"cooperative\" (\"koinonia\"). They dined together and together had responsibility for the facilities, including the library and the museum. They paid no one and received no pay from anyone. The expenses for the establishment were assumed by wealthy patrons, one of whom was Aristotle; however, during the time that Alexander the Great was a friend, there were no financial worries. For all these informalities, they were nevertheless considered to be either \"young men\" (\"neaniskoi\") or \"elders\" (\"presbuteroi\"). Aristotle, moreover, did have some power, beginning with his position, described by English scholars as scholiarch, \"ruler of the school.\" This rule did not include the day-to-day operation of the school, as he instituted the equivalent of a maritime \"watch\" to take care of that; i.e., every 10 days he appointed an archon, \"master,\" from the friends.\n\nThe business of the friends was not merely education in existing knowledge. As is expressed in the first few paragraphs of \"Physics\", they were interested in discovering the principles, or elements of the knowledge, which was an entirely new goal in Greek education. This research was divided into specific \"fields\" (methodoi). First they collected written works representing the existing knowledge. Subsequently, they collected field data through interviews and specimen-hunting. Aristotle is the first known scientist to have sent out field workers, and to have sent them with military expeditions. Alexander's ethnic and political intelligence gathering as a friend of the school was certainly of greatest value in his ultimate goal, to create a new, multi-cultural world empire. His was the first known army to feature a military historian unit. He was said to have assigned thousands of men to the task of collecting specimens, presumably in addition to their military duties.\n\nThe final step in a research project was analysis of all the information to ascertain \"scientific knowledge\" (episteme) of the \"elements\" (stoicheia), the \"causes\" (aitia), and the \"first principles\" (archai) of the topic. These were written in a new type of document, which has survived in the \"corpus\". Beginning with a brief survey of the previous views, it launched into the definitions and conclusions in a style similar to a geometric presentation. The papers were then stored in the library. Their authors, analysts, contributors, whether or not they were emended, or corrected, and by whom, remain unknown for certain. Diogenes Laertius called these \"notebooks\" (hypomnemata) and said that Aristotle wrote \"an unusual number.\"\n\nAccording to Strabo, Neleus, son of Coriscus, a friend at the Lyceum, \"inherited the library (bibliotheke) of Theophrastus, which included that of Aristotle.\" Theophrastus received Aristotle's library by being bequeathed it along with the school. Theophrastus was the first book collector, as far as Strabo knew. Apparently, the elders owned their own libraries and could dispose of them as they pleased.\n\nThe main problems with this view are, first of all, that Aristotle's Will survives credibly in Diogenes Laertius' (D.L.'s) \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" under \"Aristotle\". There is not one word about a library. Moreover, Aristotle, a metic, or foreign resident of Athens, was not allowed to own property or bequeath it, so he could not have either owned the school with its library or have left it to anyone by legal process. Even if he were not a metic, he could not have disposed of the land and buildings, which were municipal property. None of the other friends could either. According to the laws in effect on the day Aristotle died, no one could own or bequeath the school to anyone. The city owned it. As to whether Aristotle and Theophrastus had additional personal libraries of their own, first, private ownership was not in the spirit of the school, and second, the fate of the school after Theophrastus suggests that the library was in fact the school library.\n\nAfter the death of Alexander, Athens staged a brief revolt against the Macedonians. Turning their attention to the school, they went after Aristotle, who went into exile to escape the death penalty. He died in exile. Within a few years Athens was again under Macedon ruled by Cassander. Theophrastus returned in triumph to the school under the authority of the new vice-regent of Athens, Demetrius of Phalerum, a friend of the school and former student of Theophrastus. The school became even greater than before, but Demetrius made some changes to the administration. D.L. says only that Theophrastus \"is said to have become the owner of a garden of his own after Aristotle's death, through the intervention of his friend, Demetrius of Phalerum.\" Apparently D.L. does not quite understand his source. The meaning was not \"his friend.\" This was not a personal favor. A \"friend\" is an associate of the school. There were not two gardens; Theophrastus was not a poor man in need of some property of his own. His extensive will details the disposition of the assets of the school as his own property, including the garden. He names the friends and wants to make sure that they understand the ownership is to be treated as joint. Demetrius had simply instituted the legal convention prevalent at other schools of having the master own the school and its assets.\n\nThe very disposition of the property in Theophrastus' will is an attempt to restore the koinonia established by Aristotle. The garden, the walks, and the buildings around the garden are to go to ten named friends, to be held in common, provided they use the property for the study of literature and philosophy. This is provisional ownership. If the provisions are not met, the property must revert to someone by law, probably the proprietor, or owner, of the school. The total property of Theophrastus as proprietor was much larger. The family estate at Eresus and the Aristotelian property at Stagira went to individual friends. He also owned funds in trust managed by Hipparchus. The latter was enjoined to use them to rebuild the museum and other buildings. He also had slaves in his possession (as had Aristotle). They were either set free or given to friends. He had one freedman client, whom he rewarded richly for four more years of maintaining the buildings.\n\nThe will contains one more bequest that is rather peculiar. It has a bearing on the nature of the \"Corpus\", whether it is Aristotle's, Aristotle's and Theophrastus', or of all the friends. There is as yet no solution to the problem of authorship, or rather lack of it. Ancient sources on the topic are inconsistent. There is no general scholarly consensus and no agreed preponderance of evidence.\n\nThe will relates in translation \"The whole of my library I give to Neleus.\" The heart of the school was its library, containing all the research results and analytical papers (the notebooks). Without it the friends could not produce current or meaningful lectures about the topics for which the school was known (physics, rhetoric, etc.) All the other school property was being redistributed to the friends in common (except that the foreign estates were given individual owners, probably for their management, while the slaves and the minor received individual guardians), but the heart of the school, without which it could not pump knowledge, was not to be common property, an anomalous approach for the circumstances. No explanation at all is to be found in ancient sources. The moderns almost universally retrieve one explanation, that Neleus was the intended heir of the archonship, although that, strangely, is nowhere suggested. The law still required an archon with property rights over the school.\n\nWhatever the implied expectation, Neleus did not become the scholiarch; instead, Strato of Lampsacus did. Again, there are no details of how or why he acquired the position or any statement of Neleus's feelings about it, inviting speculation. Strabo then relates what is universally considered an act of perfidy against the school. He was given the library with the understanding that it would be shared as common property. Instead \"Neleus took it to Skepsis and bequeathed it to his heirs, ordinary people, who kept the books locked up ...\" The result, according to Strabo, was that the school \"... had no books at all, with the exception of only a few, ... and were therefore able ... only to talk bombast about commonplace propositions ...\" No details or motives are given. Speculations are rife. Every author has something to say, some judgement to render. All are conscious of the fact that, were it not for this perfidy, there would be no \"corpus\" as it is known today.\n\nStrabo's anecdote is not the sole ancient authority on Neleus' disposition of the books. Athenaeus of Naucratis, in his work Deipnosophistae, \"Dinner Sophists,\" an imaginary portrayal of a series of banquets at which the guests are famous literary figures of the past (over 700), so that the reader is served up menus and snippets of sophistry together, has his main character, the host, \"Laurentius\" (\"Lawrence\") possessing \n\nBy the rules of logic (Aristotle's very rules) both accounts may not be received as \"the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,\" as the American legal principle for courtroom testimony requires. The easiest solution would be to drop one in favor of the other, and many authors take it. The remaining solution is to accept both as partially true, creating a window of opportunity for speculatory explanation of differences between the Alexandrian and Skepsian traditions.\n\nThe tradition best known to moderns is the \"Corpus Aristotelicum\", New Latin for \"Aristotelic body,\" a term not used by Bekker. The Prussian Academy published his 1831 edition under the name \"Aristoteles Graece\", \"Aristotle in Greek,\" where Aristoteles is the nominative case. In most Latin and New Latin book titles the author is in the genitive case, such as \"Aristotelis Opera\", \"the works of Aristotle.\" Individual works are so named by Bekker, but none of this is any sort of \"corpus\".\n\nIn the late 19th century the \"corpus\" phrase began to appear in the notes of the German historians of philosophy, such as Zeller and Windelband. By implication they meant Bekker, but even as they wrote a new manuscript was being excavated from the trash-heaps of Egypt about which Bekker knew nothing at all, or anyone else for at least a few thousand years: the Constitution of the Athenians (Aristotle). It was identified as being one of 158 political studies written by Aristotle and his students no earlier than 330 BC. It is in the \"notebook\" format. The content differs in that it is not an abstract treatise but is a history stating periods and dates. Not being able to fit it into an idea of the \"corpus\" based on Bekker, many rejected it. The date being quite ancient, the majority view is to accept it as of Alexandrian provenience, the only instance of an Aristotelicum from the library and school there.\n\nThe acceptance of the \"Constitution of the Athenians\" with the same credibility as the Bekkerian \"corpus\" lends a certain ambiguity to the meaning of \"corpus\". If it is to be only the works in Bekker, then such misleading phrases as \"the original corpus\" are possible, as though the works in Bekker are more authentic than any works out of it. Not even the works in Bekker are authentic beyond any doubt.\n\nThe next logical step is to attempt to modify the definition of the term so that it is not to be the Latin word \"corpus\" but some special use of it:\n\nThe phrase has such authority that it may not be used without meaning Bekker's collection, but it may be used to mean additional Aristotelica. It is often translated as \"the works of Aristotle.\" In that English sense it ought to mean every work ever attributed to Aristotle as well as every fragment. George Grote had said \n\nBy \"canon\" Grote meant \"the Berlin edition of Aristotle.\" He is totally innocent of any Aristotelian \"corpora\". Even if \"canon\" had survived instead of \"corpus\", such a meaning now would fail to distinguish Bekker. One translational solution is just to name Bekker, as in \"Bekker pages.\" Such an elevation of Bekker as the authority raises the question of the source of this aura of conviction surrounding the name. It seems likely that it was inherent in the sources.\n\nHaving determined to print all of Aristotle's authentic works, as far as could be ascertained, Bekker found himself looking back over a voluminous paper trail. He chose to use the texts found in 102 manuscripts (MSS), routinely identified by library name and access number. For use in the book, he gave each MS a letter code. These appear in the footnotes. The front material of the edition includes a list of MSS. His libraries are relatively few, including the Vatican Library at Rome, the Biblioteca Marciana at Venice, the Bibliothèque Nationale de France (formerly the Royal Library of Paris), and the Austrian National Library at Vienna. Typically the Aristotelica are included in famous MSS publishing a number of works.\n\nBekker did not seek out all possible MSS. The number of MSS still extant remains unknown. Before the invention of the printing press ca. 1440 by Johannes Gutenberg, who combined moveable type with a screw press, book reproduction was performed by copyists. It went on everywhere in institutions that could afford to undertake it.\n\nIn the 15th century copying slowed as the MSS were replaced by books. Due to cultural lag, some MSS production continued as late as the 17th century in the form of written books. For the most part the MSS were left where they were. Since Bekker, many previously unconsidered MSS have turned up. Their publication is ongoing. Based on them, works considered spurious are now believed genuine, and vice versa. The jury is always out, so to speak.\n\nThe date of a copy is to be distinguished from the date of its recension. Most Aristotle MSS were copied during centuries 13-15 at various scriptoria in Europe. The sequence of text is the recension, which might be instanced by many copies at diverse locations. The recension is not just the text, but is all the idiosyncrasies, such as a specific set of errors (miscopies, misspellings or variant texts), associated with it. The similarities or differences make possible the reconstruction of a tree of descent by the comparative method defining families of MSS, each designated by a capital letter. A family also is a recension. Its first member is its original. Typically originals are not available now but their existence and date can be predicated from different types of historical and textual evidence.\n\nExcluding anomalous archaeological finds, all the MSS copied most lately date to after 1000. Historical and internal clues point to originals in the last 3 centuries before 1000 and a provenience of the domain of the Byzantine Empire; that is, the Greek-speaking world as it was under the eastern Roman Empire. The crusaders broke the power of its capital city, Constantinople, leaving it helpless before the saracens, in this case the Turkish-language speakers from the plains of Central Asia, who became the Ottoman Turks. They soon colonized Anatolia, occupying the urban centers there and replacing the Greek-speakers, who escaped to Greece. As they were not much interested in copying Greek MSS, the task of transmitting them to posterity passed to Europe. (The Turkish people today have an abiding interest in antiquities). The Arabic-speaking saracens to the south after an initial zealous destruction of antiquities, including starting yet another fire in the library of Alexandria, seemed to be infused with the same magic of Aristotle and Alexander that had captured the Roman conquerors of Anatolia earlier. They began to translate Aristotle into Arabic, now the only source of some Aristotelica.\n\nHand-written MSS of Aristotle are missing from the 1st half of the 1st millennium. The ongoing sites of Oxyrhynchus and the Villa of the Papyri offer hope of the discovery of fragments outside the \"corpus\" tradition. Meanwhile, the commentaries, or explanations of the content of the \"corpus\", supply quotations and paraphrases filling in the gap. These \"lemmata\", or excerpts, are so close to the \"corpus\" that they can be assigned Bekker numbers, which is good evidence that \"corpus\" has been accepted as the work of Aristotle since the beginning of the Roman Empire. The \"corpus\" is universally attributed to a single recension, that of Andronicus of Rhodes, dated to mid-1st-century BC, in the late Roman Republic. The diagnostic of Andronicus' work is the division of the text into treatises, the names of some of the treatises, and the order and grouping of the treatises. Any work that does not conform to that diagnostic is immediately suspected of being \"spurious\" or non-authentic; that is, not of the \"corpus\" and not of Aristotle (rightly or wrongly).\n\nIn the story by Strabo, after Neleus has removed the books to Skepsis — many thousands in broad daylight on a caravan of wagons and in a fleet of ships, without objection or notice of any officials at Athens or Skepsis — history knows no more of him, even though he must have had plans for the books. Evidently the plans did not materialize. To take the passage literally, he must have died shortly thereafter, as the relatives received disposition of the property willed to them (the books).\n\nThe books arrived at Skepsis and were stored in a large outbuilding at what must have been a country estate, as the space requirements would not have changed any since Athens. The few small rooms of an ordinary dwelling in town would not have been suitable. Perhaps the relatives were not so poor and uneducated as depicted. As one man could not possibly have moved an entire library by himself, Neleus must have had a retinue of servants.\n\nHearing that Eumenes II, the Attalid king of Pergamon, was hunting books, the Corascid family \"hid their books underground in a kind of trench.\" The king must not even have suspected the presence of a huge underground cache at Skepsis, as kings have methods of investigation and confiscation not available to ordinary citizens. Apparently the king's system of \"eyes and ears,\" so well developed under Alexander, failed totally, that an entire building full of books could have been received and buried without him being informed. Moreover, the event remained a family secret for the next 200 years.\n\nOrdinary people do not keep property and family memory for so long, but the story is the story, and apart from the alternative by Athenaeus, is the only one available. Speculative answers are always possible. The general view is that Neleus only brought, and his family only hid, a small part of a library that had already otherwise been sold.\n\nFor the next event in the creation of the \"corpus\" the historical clock must be advanced from the accession of Strato as scholiarch (instead of Neleus) at 286 BC to the confiscation of the first recension of the re-discovered \"corpus\" from the home of the deceased re-discoverer, by general Sulla on his return to Athens after his conquest of Anatolia in 84 BC. For that approximately 200 years, Strabo would have us believe, the scholars of the Lyceum were a simple folk, unable to understand, repeat, or reconstruct the work of Aristotle, nor could they add to any of the previous investigations without his guidance. Moreover, when they finally did obtain a glimpse into what they believed were the words of the master, the only scholarly activities of which they were capable were trying to puzzle out what they mean. Whatever this condition might have been, it certainly was not science. Considering the activities of some of the graduates, there has been some grounds for thinking the Lyceum was gone, and the property was being held by greedy charlatans utilizing the name of peripatetic as a mask. Athenaeus tells the story of \"Athenion the Peripatetic philosopher\" (a contemporary of Apellicon),\n\nThe men to whom he refers did not wear ragged cloaks; they were among the richest in Athens, but they were so because they were charlatans, or, as would be said today, \"crooks.\" The school and the society in which it had been placed were different now. The diadochi were gone, or nearly so, including the Attalids. The eastern Mediterranean was divided into provinces of the Roman Republic, except that Mithridates VI of Pontus was successfully contesting Roman rule in Anatolia. The citizenship laws at Athens had changed somewhat. Athenion's mother had been an Egyptian slave owned by his father, and yet based on his father's citizenship he was enrolled as a citizen and inherited his father's estate. Apellicon (not an Athenian name), an immigrant from Teos in Asia MInor, was enrolled as a citizen after his adoption into the family of Aristotle, son of Apolexis.\n\nThe fact that the family included two members named Aristotle leads to the suggestion that the adoptive family had connections to the Lyceum and that Apellicon learned of the books through it. Moreover, references in the sources to Apellicon and Athenion as \"peripatetics\" may well be interpreted as meaning that they both went to the Lyceum, which would explain why they were later comrades-in-arms. The peripatetics never had a predictable philosophy. Both men were skilled orators, which was a specialty of the school at that time. Athenion went on to found a chain of schools for boys, on which account he is called a \"sophist\" (a teacher of conventional wisdom). Apellicon turned his love for books into something conceded to have been illegal for the times:\n\nAs there is no indication that the Apolexidis family were fabulously wealthy or that, being numerous, they had much to leave to their adopted son, Apellicon very likely made his money from the resale of rare documents he acquired for nothing except the cost of stealing them. These were the originals of the decrees, first written on paper and signed before they were carved in stone for public benefit. In describing the ideal library of \"Lawrence,\" Athenaeus points out that even then historians were expected to verify their claims against public documents. In one source Apellicon himself had written a book on Aristotle. Initially he might have yielded to the temptation to walk away with the source rather than return it to display in the temple. Becoming rich through the sale of stolen documents he decided to redeem the old cache, which was said to have been hidden not far from his home town.\n\nExamining the books, and finding that moths and mold had removed portions of the text, Apellicon created another recension, supplying the missing information himself. There is no indication of how much was missing or of what source Apellicon used, if any, or whether the supplied material was grammatical, orthographic, or epigraphic, or included philosophy as well. Subsequent editors judged his recension to have been full of errors, but no ancient source has said what sort of errors, or how they were judged to be errors. These editors made corrections, but the sources of information used for correction remain unknown. In short, the only thing known from ancient sources is that Apellicon made a recension that was later criticised for being erroneus. The contradiction of such a statement is that if they knew enough to correct Apellicon, why would the rediscovery of the books have added anything different to the obviously already known \"corpus\"?\n\nThe passage from Athenaeus also provides a rough time table for the recension of Apellicon. It was created toward the end of his years as a successful thief, presumably at his home in Athens. What happened to the damaged originals remains a total mystery. Perhaps they were repasted and sold. How many copies were made if any, and who got them, also is not known. Apellicon probably left town in such a hurry that the books remained in Athens under the care of friends or servants. There is no record that the city moved against his property. Thus in a short time when he returned under the protection of Athenion he took up residence in the same home housing the same library, which was found there by Sulla after Apellicon's death.\n\nIn the pages of Athenaeus, evil men come to a bad end, and the peripatetics are not good men. These were shortly to be tested in the First Mithridatic War with disastrous results. Bithynia and Pontus were independent kingdoms descending from Persian satrapies on the southern coast of the Black Sea never taken by Alexander. The descendants of the satraps remained as the Nicomedid and Mithridatid dynasties respectively. Walking a fine diplomatic balance they managed to coexist with the reigning diadochi (Attalids, Seleucids, etc.), but they made war on each other. When the diadochi were replaced by Roman provincial governors, Mithridates VI of Pontus attacked Nicomedes IV of Bithynia, claiming tort at the hands of Nicomedes supported by Rome, and further developing an Anatolian alliance defeated all the Roman commanders, massacring as well the helpless Roman citizens. Rome could not ignore these events.\n\nThe rise of Mithridates offered some hope of independence to the cities of Greece. The Athenian people made Athenion the ambassador to Mithridates on the basis of his skill at oratory and experience of the east. Mithridates had other ideas. Winning the ambassador by banquets and promises he sent him back to Athens, where he set up headquarters in front of the Stoa of Attalus. The Roman officers were accustomed to address the people at that location. After a running harangue, voting to declare independence, the Athenians elected Athenion as commander-in-chief of their armed forces. The historians refer to him as a tyrant.\n\nThe wealthy made it clear that the vote had not been theirs by attempting to escape the city. Posting a guard on the gates and dispatching cavalry to hunt the escapees Athenion held a sequence of drum-head trials for treason of which the result was always the same: death and confiscation of property. Athenaeus' account of other peripatetic tyrants at this time makes it clear that the issue was ideologic, the redistribution of wealth. Athenaeus, however, portrays it as thievery due to greed. He says that Athenion \"collected such a quantity of money as to fill several wells.\" Furthermore, he was lavish in his expenditures. Whether the motives were ideologic or personal is a difficult question to answer either then or now, but Athenion went to extremes. He took to torture to extort money. A curfew was set. The economy declined from want. Rationing was instituted.\n\nAthenion replaced all the magistrates with his own men. Choosing this moment to return to Athens, Apellicon was welcomed as an old comrade. Athenion sent him to Delos in command of a force with instructions to recapture the Athenian national treasury there and bring the money to Athens. It is peculiar that the force he was given is more of a mob than a detachment of soldiers, and that Apellicon evidences total ignorance of military matters. Landing on the shore at night they encamp without a palisade, fail to set a proper watch, and proceed to drink into the small hours. The commander of the Roman guard, Orobius, leads his soldiers into the camp, slaughters 600 men, takes another 400 captive, and hunts the escapees through the countryside, burning them up in their hiding places. Better at running than fighting, Apellicon manages to escape to Athens, where he disappears from politics, at least in the sources, until the brief notice of his death, apparently not of interest to Sulla until then.\n\nOn either side, victory depended on intervention. The Pontians moved first. Accompanying his fleet commander, Archelaus, as admiral Mithridates sails to Rhodes with his entire fleet. Lucius Cassius, Proconsul of Asia, had escaped to the fortified harbor in the city of the same name there with whatever refugees he could locate. All the Italians had been struck on a day pre-arranged by Mithridates. Their property was seized by forfeit under pretext of being for the public good, a motive that Appian, like Athenaeus, tears to shreds. The friends of Mithridates revelled in riches. Their cause was amply funded. Commanding from a state quinquereme, Mithridates throws all his naval resources at Rhodes. Failing to take the place, he retreats to his headquarters at Pergamon, instructing Archelaus to complete the conquest of the Cyclades. Archelaus overwhelms Delos, sending the treasury back to Athens with one Aristion under guard of 2000 men. He then anchors at Piraeus, fortifies Munichia, and uses the place as a headquarters, sending out forays to subdue new islands and new coastal cities. During this time Aristion is tyrant of Athens, and no more is heard of Athenion.\n\nThe sources on these two men are again contradictory. They are both tyrants of Athens. Athenaeus uses \"Athenion,\" as did his source, Posidonius, without mention of \"Aristion.\" Pausanias, Appian, and Plutarch refer to \"Aristion\" without mentioning \"Athenion.\" The main difference is that Athenion is a peripatetic, while Aristion is an epicurean. The scholar, Isaac Casaubon, proposed without further evidence that they were the same man, that, enrolling as a citizen, Athenion changed his name to Aristion (there was one other instance of the practice). The difference continued to be troubling, as the two philosophies were at upposite poles: the Epicureans were atomists following Democritus, while the peripatetics were hylomorphs, following Plato. The sources would have known the difference, even just to be men of letters.\n\nIn 1935 fragments of a monument were excavated from the Ancient Agora of Athens, which when joined formed part of a decree (I 2351) establishing a new government at Athens. According to Woodhead,\n\nA first analysis dated the Constitution to 84/83 BC, the time of Sulla’s visit after reaching an agreement with Mithridates. On subsequent revision of the text J.H. Oliver noticed that two of the provisions were so close to recommendations in Aristotle’s \"Politics\" that Bekker numbers could be As a peripatetic constitution would not be being restored in 84 BC after the final overthrow of the peripatetics. Oliver redates it to 87/86 BC suggesting that the author was a peripatetic; that is, Athenion with his friends. Furthermore, I 2351 is strong evidence that the recension of Apellicon was in fact close to the \"corpus Aristotelicum\". Antela-Bernardez suggests that after the Delian debacle Mithridates sacked all the peripatetics and elevated his own man, Aristion, to tyrant.\n\nOn the Roman side, the Asiatic Vespers (the massacre) resulted in an immediate declaration of war. Elections were due for the year 88 BC, which began January first. Sulla and Rufus (“red”) stood for consules and won (see List of Roman consuls). Rufus’ son, an officer under Sulla, had asked for Cornelia’s (Sulla’s eldest daughter’s) hand in marriage and won, a marriage which ended tragically. Sulla himself made a marriage with the daughter of the Chief Priest (Pontfex Maximus). The two consules cast lots for the major obligations, as required by law. Sulla won prosecution of the Mithridatic War.\n\nThese electoral victories represent a break-away from the political machine of which Gaius Marius was boss. He headed the Populares party; Sulla and Rufus were of the Optimates. Marius had nevertheless until now sponsored the career of Sulla. Born to the aristocratic Cornelii, Sulla was said to have had a way with women. His step-mother left him her fortune. He married into more wealth. His personal name, Sulla, was actually a food dish of white cheese sprinkled over a red sauce (pizza?) giving the same appearance as his face. He had joined a troupe of comedians who sang and danced making a mockery of famous people, leaving that to enter government service under Marius’ sponsorship. His taking for himself a position Marius had hoped to control was an unforgivable betrayal.\n\nThe animosity between them had begun previously when the ambitious Sulla ran for Praetor, lost, ran again, bought some votes and won, to be ridiculed for it by Julius Caesar. Sent to Asia without troops he brought about peace using the troops of his allies there. On his return the Populares impeached him for extorting an ally but the case was dropped. At the outbreak of the Social War (91–88 BC) both parties put their differences aside until victory was achieved and the Italians were restored to Roman rule. Sulla, leading troops recruited at Rome itself, had acquired “the name of a great commander,” but the aging Marius accomplished nothing of note.\n\nWasting no time, Marius subverted one of the Tribuni plebis, “Tribunes of the People,” Publius Sulpicius Rufus, a feared politician with a private army of 3000 men, to pass an ordinance giving conduct of the war to Marius. Sulpicius had changed allegiance from the \"optimates\" to the \"populares\" to qualify for the magistracy. As blandishment, Marius promised the relief of Sulpicius’ ruinous debt. Declaring a preventative cessation of business, the two consuls were attacked by Sulpicius’ men in assembly. Rufus escaped somehow. His son was killed. Marius offered shelter to Sulla for old time’s sake and in exchange for withdrawal of the cessation.\n\nThe tribunes sent to take command of the army at Nola (near Naples) were stoned to death by it. Sulla had gotten there first. Marius began to murder Sulla’s partisans and confiscate their property. Sulla marched on Rome with six legions. He was met by emissaries from the Senate, who would, they assured him, make things right. Sulla agreed but lied, following the emissaries back to Rome to capture the gate. Halted there by a mob, he set fire to Rome.\n\nMarius fled for his life. Sulla passed a death sentence in absentia (later rescinded). Sulpicius was executed. The elections for 87 were upon them. Rufus had been killed in a mutiny. Knowing he could not win, Sulla did not run. He did control who did win, making it possible for them to perform their duties or preventing them. His choices were Gnaeus Octavius (consul 87 BC), an optimate (although he disliked Sulla) and Lucius Cornelius Cinna, a popular. The price for Sulla’s support was that they swear a personal oath to leave Sulla in his command, now as Proconsul. Cinna broke it immediately, suborning a low-level tribune to trump up an accusation (not known what) on the basis of which he began impeachment proceedings against Sulla.\n\nOver a year had passed since the hapless Romans in Asia had sent urgent appeals for assistance. Mithridates had established sovereignty over nearly all of Greece. The Roman government seemed paralyzed by incidents of partisan contention. Meanwhile, Bruttius Sura, a Legate of one Gaius Sentius, Praetor of Macedonia, was conducting small-unit operations quasi-autonomously against the Pontians in Boeotia with minimal success. Boeotia though anti-Pontian was being compelled to submit. In the autumn of 88 BC Sulla's Quaestor (chief supply officer), one Lucullus (undoubtedly the same as Lucius Licinius Lucullus, written about by Plutarch), arrived to order Sura back to Macedonia and to make supply arrangements with Boeotia and the states of central Greece. In the spring of 87, Sulla abandoned the suite of impeachment and the Civil War to strike suddenly across the Adriatic into central Greece with 5 legions and some cavalry, in very round numbers, about 30,000 men, mainly veterans of the Social War, many no doubt from his prior command.\n\nImplied by the sudden strike story is the paradox of the ships. During the siege of Athens, lacking ships to conduct an amphibious assault on Piraeus, Sulla sends Lucullus to Egypt by night in disguised vessels to beg ships from Ptolemy IX Lathyros. Denied and redirected to Cyprus, Lucullus avoids an ambush there and collects a motley fleet from the islands. Meanwhile, Sulla has no ships, it is said. When history last saw Sulla’s five legions they had been sent back to the camp at Nola. Either Sulla acquired ships there and sailed around the south of Italy or they marched overland to Brindisi, the preferred port of embarcation for voyages to Greece. The sources give no clue.\n\nThe troops next appear at Athens without ships. How did they cross the Adriatic Sea? Mommsen says:\n\nHe could not have landed in Epirus without a single ship except by extraordinary means not explained by Mommsen. Similarly, the contemporaneous Long says:\n\nThe ships have appeared in this scenario (one cannot sail without them) but the march is unnecessarily laborious. There is no need to disembark at all: one enters the Gulf of Corinth, which is 81 miles long, and no more than a few days later arrives off the shores of Attica and Boeotia. If the ships are allowed, there is no necessity to have any “landing” or any “march” at all.\n\nThe current solution implied or expressed by the scholars is that by “ships” the sources mean warships capable of defeating Archelaus’ warships, which would otherwise ram and sink any troop transports. Sulla’s quaestorial organization would have acquired sufficient transports for the crossing in Italy. They did not sail to Athens with them as the seas were ruled by Archelaus. The only other route is through the Gulf of Corinth. It requires that either the ships be dragged across the Isthmus of Corinth on an overland route through enemy territory or be left behind in the Gulf.\n\nWhat the army did do depended on the disposition of the states on the east side of the Gulf and the moot question of supply. Mommsen and Long (and many others) speculate that the troops arrived in Epirus with empty larders, so to speak. On the contrary, as the master of Rome, Sulla would have had no trouble commandeering whatever initial supplies and ships he needed. His was not a poverty-stricken army. Armies on the move, however, require supply lines, which is what the Civil War would deny Sulla. As soon as he had departed his enemies assumed power, and they had no intention of supplying his army. He was on his own.\n\nAppian gives the most detail:\n\nThere is no mention of any land campaign. Aetolia was on the north shore of the Gulf. Thessaly was far to the north on the east coast of central Greece. This distance is the basis for Mommsen’s land campaign, as though Thessaly required one. Thessaly, however, was still pro-Roman. One does not devastate the country of an ally to acquire supplies. Apparently, Sulla landed in Aetolia to receive the assistance promised by both states to Lucullus the previous year.\n\nSupplied and augmented by Aetolians Sulla’s force marched through the adjoining country of Boeotia. As a symbol of Roman presence it was immensely successful. Every city of Boeotia, including the recalcitrant Thebes, rallied to the Roman cause. His flank now covered, Sulla entered Megaris, which had thrown in its lot with Boeotia. It was an important land link between Attica and the Gulf of Corinth. It had a fortified port, Aigosthena, on the Alkyonides Gulf. Arriving in the vicinity of Athens, Sulla constructed a larger castra (base) at Eleusis to support siege operations, supply and winter quarters for the men should that become necessary (it did).\n\nAfter constructing their castra — a Roman legion was prepared to throw up one of those in a single late afternoon, although a permanent camp may have taken longer — the Romans moved to the siege of Athens on the north side. If Sulla had faced the full weight of the Athenian army as it had been, he would perhaps simply have been cleared out of Attica. As it was, Aristion and his Mithridatic ally, Archelaus, were to demonstrate an astounding incompetence (the sources were astounded) against Roman veteran troops; nevertheless, they put up a strong resistance, Archelaus most of all.\n\nThe Athenians had created two fortified defensive communities: the city itself with the Acropolis and the Marketplace (\"agora\"), and the port, Piraeus, with a defensible elevation. The path between them was protected by two parallel “Long Walls.” Thinking them unimportant, the defenders allowed these walls to be taken and demolished, thus splitting their forces in two. Archelaus defending Piraeus could be resupplied and reinforced by sea. Aristion in Athens itself could not. Sulla threw the entire weight of his attack against Aristion.\n\nThe defenders did have a defense strategy, plotted between Mithridates and Archelaus, who were in relatively rapid communication by swift vessel. Mithridates dispatched a strike force of 120,000 men under his son, Arcathias (or Ariathes). He took Macedonia and Thessaly but the force was delayed by the natural death of the son. Had he succeeded in reaching Attica in a timely manner Sulla would have been pinned between three forces. This remedy offers some explanation for Aristion’s strange behavior: he sang and danced on the walls of Athens, mocking Sulla by recalling his early career as an entertainer. One source proposes that he was just a fool who liked to entertain the men of his command. Another informs us that he was trying to anger Sulla to keep him on the attack, which also would be a strange thing to do if he did not expect a relieving force. He succeeded all too well, but the timing went wrong.\n\nSulla sent for some siege engines from Thebes. It was at this time that he crossed paths unkowingly with Aristotle and also made the originally honest decisions that would lead to the plundering of Greek \"objects d’art\". A mere agreement with the allies to provide supplies in kind was grossly insufficient. Cash was needed to pay the men and to buy the goods and services needed for the siege, such as thousands of working mules, drivers and wagons. Just after he was assigned the Mithridatic War, the Senate voted to:\n\nThat money was gone and Sulla was cut off from Rome, but there were plenty of temples in Greece, each of which served as a repository of wealth. He and Lucullus made the decision to tax these temples for their valuable objects. Letters of appropriation were sent forthwith, delivered by revenue agents in wagons and ships.\n\nThe sources concentrate on the three most famous temples: the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, the Asclepeion at Epidaurus, and the Temple of Zeus, Olympia, which latter yielded “a vast fortune” according to Diodorus Siculus These were not the only temples taxed; there is evidence that the tax might have been on all temples. Pausanias mentions the removal of the statue of Athena from a temple in Haliartus, Boeotia. At this time Sulla was still arguing national security as a motive. After the war he compensated at least some of the temples by giving them confiscated farmland for a yearly income.\n\nSulla was primarily interested in currency. He could obtain it either by resale of the art objects or by melting them and issuing coin. We are told he founded a mint in the Peloponnesus and that he issued gold and silver coins of greater than standard weight for “purchasing the services of their soldiers with lavish sums.” This money was subsequently called “Lucullian,” according to Plutarch. The coin discoveries from the region are consistent with this view, although not conclusive. A gold aureus and a silver denarius believed from the times are overweight and bear an image of Venus, Sulla’s patron goddess, on one side with a double cornucopia and the letter Q for Quaestor on the other. Minting was not the only disposition of the antiques; Sulla was aware of the high resale value of such objects. He took many objects not of precious metal, such as the antique shields of the Greeks who had stopped Brennus (3rd century BC) at Thermopylae. These must have been sold to the highest bidder.\n\n\nA recension is a selection of a specific text for publication. The manuscripts on a given work attributed to Aristotle offer textual variants. One recension makes a selection of one continuous text, but typically gives notes stating the alternative sections of text. Determining which text is to be presented as \"original\" is a detailed scholarly investigation. The recension is often known by its scholar's name.\nIn reverse chronological order:\n\nA commentary differs from a note in being a distinct work analyzing the language and subsumed concepts of some other work classically notable. A note appears within the annotated work on the same page or in a separate list. Commentaries are typically arranged by lemmas, or quotes from the notable work, followed by an analysis of the author of the commentary.\n\nThe commentaries on every work of Aristotle are a vast and mainly unpublished topic. They extend continuously from the death of the philosopher, representing the entire history of Graeco-Roman philosophy. There are thousands of commentators and commentaries known wholly or more typically in fragments of manuscripts. The latter especially occupy the vaults of institutions formerly responsible for copying them, such as monasteries. The process of publishing them is slow and ongoing.\n\nBelow is a brief representative bibliography of published commentaries on Aristotle's \"Physics\" available on or through the Internet. Like the topic itself, they are perforce multi-cultural, but English has been favored, as well as the original languages, ancient Greek and Latin.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43891438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43891438", "title": "Regional Scale Nodes", "text": "Regional Scale Nodes\n\nThe National Science Foundation's (NSF) Ocean Observatories Initiative (OOI) Regional Scale Nodes (RSN) component is an electro-optically cabled underwater observatory that directly connects to the global Internet. It is the largest cable-linked seabed observatory in the world, and also the first of its kind in the United States.\n\nLocated on the southern part of the Juan de Fuca plate, off the coast of Washington and Oregon, it is the first ocean observatory to span a tectonic plate.\n\nRSN utilizes several high-power, high-bandwidth sub-sea terminals called primary nodes which are linked together by fiber-optic cable and provide support to oceanographic sensors at key locations.\n\nUpon completion of the network in 2014, RSN will cover a distance of over 900 kilometers at depths of up to 3000 meters. Implementation of the OOI Regional Scale Nodes is led by the University of Washington’s (UW) School of Oceanography, the UW Applied Physics Laboratory, and L-3 MariPro.\n\nLive RSN data from >100 seafloor and water column instruments will be made available live on the Internet. This will allow both scientists and the general public to study long-term changes in ocean systems over the next 25 years.\n\nConstruction of RSN will be completed in 2014. Efforts are substantially aided by the crews of ROPOS (Remotely Operated Platform for Observation Sciences. The 83-day VISIONS ’14 expedition aboard the 274-foot global-class R/V \"Thomas G. Thompson\" is responsible for the observatory's final implementation.\n\nThe Regional Scale Nodes (RSN) is a component of the National Science Foundation's (NSF’s) Ocean Observatories Initiative (OOI). The NSF’s OOI is managed and coordinated by the OOI Project Office at the Consortium for Ocean Leadership (COL) in Washington, D.C. The UW, located in Seattle, Washington, is the RSN Implementing Organization for the COL.\n\nThe vision behind RSN is to launch a new era of scientific discovery and understanding of the oceans.\n\nThe RSN consists of two infrastructures: primary and secondary. The primary infrastructure network, which was designed, qualified, manufactured, and installed in 2012 by L-3 Maripro, consists of a shore facility located in Pacific City, Oregon; two fiber-optic cable lines covering a distance of 800 kilometers, and seven primary science nodes.\n\nThe RSN system delivers 200 kilowatts of power and 240Gbit/s of TCP/IP Internet data communications to the seven primary science nodes. RSN is designed to last for 25 years and is capable of significant expansion to serve future science needs.\n\nPrior to the emergence of underwater cabled observatories, oceanographers and other researchers studying the global ocean tended to rely on the use of research vessels and manned submersibles in order to collect data. This was followed by a shift toward Remote Operated Vehicles (ROV’s) and space-based research satellites. The limitation to these methods was that they were either not cost-effective, or data could only be collected for short durations. While the importance of expedition-based exploration was recognized, a solution was needed.\n\nIn 1987, the concept of utilizing high-power, high-bandwidth underwater cabled observatories emerged as a long-term, cost-effective solution for conducting real-time monitoring of ocean systems.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the United States and Canada formed an agreement to develop a plate-scale submarine electro-optically cabled ocean observatory in the northeast Pacific Ocean. This region is home to the smallest of Earth’s tectonic plates – the Juan de Fuca plate. The small size and close coastal proximity of the Juan de Fuca plate presents a unique opportunity to observe the dynamic systems in submarine volcano regions.\n\nThe partnership between the U.S. and Canada developed into a plan to build a Canadian cabled array that would cover the upper 1/3 of the Juan de Fuca plate, and a U.S. system spanning the lower 2/3 of the plate (cite). Together, this plate-scale observatory would be called NEPTUNE (Northeast Pacific Time Series Underwater Networked Experiments) and would provide continuous observations for 25 years.\n\nBy the mid-2000s, NEPTUNE Canada had received full funding and their cabled array was completed and online by 2009. It was brought under the umbrella network of Ocean Networks Canada (ONC). Meanwhile, NEPTUNE U.S. was renamed to Regional Scale Nodes and became a component of the OOI. It is slated for completion in 2014. Both NEPTUNE Canada and RSN will be integrated through the ONC’s digital infrastructure and the OOI Cyberinfrastructure providing real-time access to anyone connected to the Internet.\n\nThe scientific goals of RSN are significant. A vast array of natural phenomena that occur throughout the world's oceans and seafloor are found in the Northeast Pacific Ocean. As a whole, the mission of RSN is to provide a human telepresence in the ocean that will serve researchers, students, educators, policymakers, and the public. Scientists will be able to conduct local investigations of such global processes as major ocean currents, active earthquake zones, creation of new seafloor, and rich environments of marine plants and animals.\n\nRSN is also designed to help anticipate both short and long-term ocean-generated threats and opportunities. Notably, RSN will be able to monitor the tectonic activity along the plate boundary. There is hope that seismic sensors could be installed at key areas along the spreading center which would serve as an early warning system for earthquakes and tsunamis.\n\nThe existence of a long-term cabled observatory will allow for long-term measurements of biological communities. In particular, the Juan de Fuca plate’s divergent plate boundary has resulted in the existence of seafloor hydrothermal vents ecosystems, and other similar groups. These deep sea communities, thriving in extremely harsh environments, pose a number of unsolved scientific questions which RSN will be capable of investigating.\n\nPrimary Infrastructure\n\nThe primary infrastructure of RSN consists of seven primary nodes which were installed in 2012 by L-3 Maripro. They are terminal points which help distribute power and bandwidth to the networks of deployed sensors.\n\nApproximately 900 kilometers of cable (referred to as backbone cable) have been used to connect the primary nodes together. These cables make landfall at the shore station in Pacific, City, Oregon.\n\nIn 2005, over 175 scientists across the United States responded to a Request for Assistance from the National Science Foundation to develop a cabled observatory on the Juan de Fuca Plate. Nodes are located at pre-selected experimental sites throughout the Juan de Fuca plate. Axial Seamount, Hydrate Ridge on the Cascadia Margin and shallow water sites west of Newport, Oregon (the Endurance Array) all have primary nodes installed. The primary nodes are all located in environmentally benign areas.\n\nNodes also convert the 10kVdc voltage levels from the backbone cable to 375Vdc which is then directed to the secondary infrastructure. The 375V switching systems and Node telemetry systems were designed and manufactured by Texcel Technology Plc based in England. The software to manage the ports and telemetry protection systems was also supplied by Texcel as a element manager sitting under a Network Management System (NMS).\n\nThe primary nodes have a number of extra ports which offer the potential for large-scale future expansion (>100 kilometers).\n\nSecondary Infrastructure\n\nThe converted 375Vdc voltage from the primary nodes is then directed at low-and medium-power nodes and junction boxes. The nodes and junction boxes (similar to power strips) offer direct power and communications to the instruments at the experimental sites. In concert, these parts make up the RSN secondary infrastructure. \nExtension cables are used to link the primary nodes to the secondary infrastructure, providing power and communications.\n\nEquipment is linked using wet-mate connectors. Different types of cable were installed depending on load requirements. Bandwidth from these cables ranges from 10 Gbit/s to 1 Gbit/s.\n\nDuring the VISIONS ’13 expedition to continue construction of RSN, over 22,000 meters of extension cables were installed on the ocean floor. The cables all successfully went online.\n\nUpon completion in 2014, over 100 cabled seafloor and water column instruments will be operational. These instruments will allow monitoring of biological, chemical, geological, and geophysical processes in the ocean. The secondary infrastructure will also include six mooring systems for water-column profilers. \nCables are frequently deployed all across the world in ocean basins and margins. They have considerably long lifetimes. The backbone cable was installed in the summer of 2011. The commercial cable-laying ship, TE SubCom Dependable, carried out this phase of the project.\n\nSpecial environmental requirements were also taken into account. Certain cables are substantially well-armored, especially those deployed in volcanic areas, such as Axial Seamount.\n\nIn order to fully understand complex ocean systems, a wide variety of sensor arrays, capable of surviving for long periods of time in harsh conditions, are necessary. A suite of sensors (over 100) were selected and strategically placed throughout RSN. They are located at Axial Seamount, Hydrate Ridge, and also on the water-column moorings.\n\nInstruments connected to the RSN include: \n\nThe instruments are the final spot of each regional network branch.\n\nThe Regional Scale Nodes is connected into the OOI Cyberinfrastructure.\n\nThe Cyberinfrastructure component of the OOI links marine infrastructure to scientists and users. The OOI Cyberinfrastructure manages and integrates data from all the different OOI sensors. It will provide a common operating infrastructure, the Integrated Observatory Network (ION), connecting and coordinating the operations of the marine components (global, regional, and coastal scale arrays). It will also provide resource management, observatory mission command and control, product production, data management and distribution (including strong data provenance), and centrally available collaboration tools.\n\nThe Integrated Observatory Network (ION) connects and coordinates the operations of the OOI marine components with the scientific and educational pursuits of oceanographic research communities. The cyberinfrastructure is being designed and constructed by the University of California, San Diego.\n\nConstruction of RSN is ongoing. As of September 19, 2014, the primary infrastructure and most of the secondary infrastructure was successfully in place, and OOI RSN and UW APL crews were working to complete the vertical moorings for the shallow profiler.\n\nThe University of Washington has welcomed student participation in the implementation of RSN. As of 2014, there have been eight expeditions in which students have had the opportunity to work aboard the R/V Thomas G. Thompson and witness the construction of the cabled observatory. During these cruises, students develop projects utilizing the array of technology and scientific equipment on board.\n\nStudents who participate in these expeditions go on to share their experiences with others.\n\nIn 2014, over 30 graduate and undergraduate students worked alongside the researchers, engineers, educators, and crew during the 83-day VISIONS ’14 expedition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9584142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9584142", "title": "Robert M. Place", "text": "Robert M. Place\n\nRobert M. Place (born 1947) is an American artist and author known for his work on tarot history, symbolism, and divination.\n\nPlace has worked since the 1970s as a sculptor, jeweler and illustrator. His sculpture has been exhibited on the White House Christmas tree, in the New York State Museum, the Delaware Art Museum, and the Irish American Heritage Museum. Place’s jewelry has been exhibited in the American Craft Museum, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Montclair Art Museum, the Summit Art Center, the International Wilhelm Muller Competition (which toured museums in Germany), the Birmingham Institute of Art and Design, and in numerous galleries in the United States, Ireland, Britain, and Japan. He was awarded a 1984-85 New Jersey State Council on the Arts Fellowship and the Niche Magazine award for outstanding achievement in metal sculpture in 1990 and 1991.\n\nIn the 1990s, Place turned his attention as an illustrator to the creation of tarot decks and began his career as an author. Place is best known as the creator of \"The Alchemical Tarot\", his first deck and book combination, which is illustrated in the style of 17th century alchemical engravings and presents a parallel between the “great work” of alchemy, which leads to the creation of the philosopher’s stone and the allegory in the tarot’s trumps.\n\nIn his other decks, \"The Angels Tarot, The Tarot of the Saints\", and \"The Buddha Tarot\", Place has explored the connection between religion, mysticism, and the tarot’s symbolism.\n\nIn his fifth book, \"The Tarot: History, Symbolism, and Divination\", his first book published not in connection with a tarot deck, Place contributes to the field of tarot history by discussing the images in the tarot in relation to the iconography of the 15th century Italian Renaissance, the era when the tarot was created. Place relates each image in the tarot to similar images created at that time and presents a theory of interpretation that is rooted in the art and philosophy of the time. The book also discusses contrasting occult theories and champions Pamela Colman Smith as the primary designer of the Waite-Smith Tarot.\n\nThe Tarotpedia says that \"The Tarot: History, Symbolism, and Divination\" “is bound to find a place amongst the most important works published this decade.”\n\n\"Booklist\", the publication of the American Library Association, says that \"The Tarot: History, Symbolism, and Divination\" “may be the best book ever written on that deck of cards decorated with mysterious images called the tarot.”\n\nRobert Place has been a frequent lecturer on and teacher of Western mysticism and the history and use of the tarot. Besides teaching regularly at the New York Open Center since 1996 and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York since 2009, he has taught at the World Tarot Congress, in Chicago and in Dallas; The Southeast Tarot Congress, in Florida; the New York Reader's Studio; The Third International Conference of the Association for Esoteric Studies, in Charleston; The Omega Institute, in New York; The New York Theosophical Society; Columbia University; The Museo Dei Tarocchi, in Riola, Italy; The Tarot Guild of Australia, Melbourne; Cartomancia, in Sao Paulo, Brazil; and he has given workshops in Los Angeles, Salt Lake City, and in 2017, in Beijing, China. His lectures have appeared on the BBC, the Learning Channel, Discovery, and A&E.\n\nIn July, 2007, Place had the honor of cutting the ribbon at the grand opening of the Museo dei Tarocchi, in Riola, Italy. Place was also the curator of an exhibition on the art and history of the tarot, which was held at the Los Angeles Craft and Folk Art Museum, from January 23, 2010, to May 9, 2010 and is the subject of his book, \"The Fool's Journey: the History, Art, & Symbolism of the Tarot\". His facsimile of one of the earliest Italian Renaissance woodcut Tarots is included in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169191", "title": "Shape", "text": "Shape\n\nA shape is the form of an object or its external boundary, outline, or external surface, as opposed to other properties such as color, texture or material composition.\n\nSome simple shapes can be put into broad categories. For instance, polygons are classified according to their number of edges as triangles, quadrilaterals, pentagons, etc. Each of these is divided into smaller categories; triangles can be equilateral, isosceles, obtuse, acute, scalene, etc. while quadrilaterals can be rectangles, rhombi, trapezoids, squares, etc.\n\nOther common shapes are points, lines, planes, and conic sections such as ellipses, circles, and parabolas.\n\nAmong the most common 3-dimensional shapes are polyhedra, which are shapes with flat faces; ellipsoids, which are egg-shaped or sphere-shaped objects; cylinders; and cones.\n\nIf an object falls into one of these categories exactly or even approximately, we can use it to describe the shape of the object. Thus, we say that the shape of a manhole cover is a disk, because it is approximately the same geometric object as an actual geometric disk.\n\nThere are several ways to compare the shapes of two objects:\n\n\nSometimes, two similar or congruent objects may be regarded as having a different shape if a reflection is required to transform one into the other. For instance, the letters \"b\" and \"d\" are a reflection of each other, and hence they are congruent and similar, but in some contexts they are not regarded as having the same shape. Sometimes, only the outline or external boundary of the object is considered to determine its shape. For instance, an hollow sphere may be considered to have the same shape as a solid sphere. Procrustes analysis is used in many sciences to determine whether or not two objects have the same shape, or to measure the difference between two shapes. In advanced mathematics, quasi-isometry can be used as a criterion to state that two shapes are approximately the same.\n\nSimple shapes can often be classified into basic geometric objects such as a point, a line, a curve, a plane, a plane figure (e.g. square or circle), or a solid figure (e.g. cube or sphere). However, most shapes occurring in the physical world are complex. Some, such as plant structures and coastlines, may be so complicated as to defy traditional mathematical description – in which case they may be analyzed by differential geometry, or as fractals.\n\nIn geometry, two subsets of a Euclidean space have the same shape if one can be transformed to the other by a combination of translations, rotations (together also called rigid transformations), and uniform scalings. In other words, the \"shape\" of a set of points is all the geometrical information that is invariant to translations, rotations, and size changes. Having the same shape is an equivalence relation, and accordingly a precise mathematical definition of the notion of shape can be given as being an equivalence class of subsets of a Euclidean space having the same shape.\n\nMathematician and statistician David George Kendall writes:\nIn this paper ‘shape’ is used in the vulgar sense, and means what one would normally expect it to mean. [...] We here define ‘shape’ informally as ‘all the geometrical information that remains when location, scale and rotational effects are filtered out from an object.’\n\nShapes of physical objects are equal if the subsets of space these objects occupy satisfy the definition above. In particular, the shape does not depend on the size and placement in space of the object. For instance, a \"\" and a \"p\" have the same shape, as they can be perfectly superimposed if the \"\" is translated to the right by a given distance, rotated upside down and magnified by a given factor (see Procrustes superimposition for details). However, a mirror image could be called a different shape. For instance, a \"b\" and a \"p\" have a different shape, at least when they are constrained to move within a two-dimensional space like the page on which they are written. Even though they have the same size, there's no way to perfectly superimpose them by translating and rotating them along the page. Similarly, within a three-dimensional space, a right hand and a left hand have a different shape, even if they are the mirror images of each other. Shapes may change if the object is scaled non-uniformly. For example, a sphere becomes an ellipsoid when scaled differently in the vertical and horizontal directions. In other words, preserving axes of symmetry (if they exist) is important for preserving shapes. Also, shape is determined by only the outer boundary of an object.\n\nObjects that can be transformed into each other by rigid transformations and mirroring (but not scaling) are congruent. An object is therefore congruent to its mirror image (even if it is not symmetric), but not to a scaled version. Two congruent objects always have either the same shape or mirror image shapes, and have the same size.\n\nObjects that have the same shape or mirror image shapes are called geometrically similar, whether or not they have the same size. Thus, objects that can be transformed into each other by rigid transformations, mirroring, and uniform scaling are similar. Similarity is preserved when one of the objects is uniformly scaled, while congruence is not. Thus, congruent objects are always geometrically similar, but similar objects may not be congruent, as they may have different size.\n\nA more flexible definition of shape takes into consideration the fact that realistic shapes are often deformable, e.g. a person in different postures, a tree bending in the wind or a hand with different finger positions.\n\nOne way of modeling non-rigid movements is by homeomorphisms. Roughly speaking, a homeomorphism is a continuous stretching and bending of an object into a new shape. Thus, a square and a circle are homeomorphic to each other, but a sphere and a donut are not. An often-repeated mathematical joke is that topologists can't tell their coffee cup from their donut, since a sufficiently pliable donut could be reshaped to the form of a coffee cup by creating a dimple and progressively enlarging it, while preserving the donut hole in a cup's handle.\n\nThe above-mentioned mathematical definitions of rigid and non-rigid shape have arisen in the field of statistical shape analysis. In particular, Procrustes analysis is a technique used for comparing shapes of similar objects (e.g. bones of different animals), or measuring the deformation of a deformable object. Other methods are designed to work with non-rigid (bendable) objects, e.g. for posture independent shape retrieval (see for example Spectral shape analysis).\n\nAll similar triangles have the same shape. These shapes can be classified using complex numbers \"u, v, w\" for the vertices, in a method advanced by J.A. Lester and Rafael Artzy. For example, an equilateral triangle can be expressed by the complex numbers 0, 1, (1 + i √3)/2 representing its vertices. Lester and Artzy call the ratio\n\nthe shape of triangle (\"u, v, w\"). Then the shape of the equilateral triangle is\nFor any affine transformation of the complex plane, formula_2   a triangle is transformed but does not change its shape. Hence shape is an invariant of affine geometry.\nThe shape \"p\" = S(\"u,v,w\") depends on the order of the arguments of function S, but permutations lead to related values. For instance,\nCombining these permutations gives formula_5 Furthermore,\nThe shape of a quadrilateral is associated with two complex numbers \"p,q\". If the quadrilateral has vertices \"u,v,w,x\", then \"p\" = S(\"u,v,w\") and \"q\" = S(\"v,w,x\"). Artzy proves these propositions about quadrilateral shapes:\nA polygon formula_9 has a shape defined by \"n\" – 2 complex numbers formula_10 The polygon bounds a convex set when all these shape components have imaginary components of the same sign.\n\nPsychologists have theorized that humans mentally break down images into simple geometric shapes called geons. Examples of geons include cones and spheres. A wide range of other shape representations have also been investigated.\nThere also seems to be something about shape that can guide human attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "679937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679937", "title": "Space Shuttle external tank", "text": "Space Shuttle external tank\n\nA Space Shuttle external tank (ET) was the component of the Space Shuttle launch vehicle that contained the liquid hydrogen fuel and liquid oxygen oxidizer. During lift-off and ascent it supplied the fuel and oxidizer under pressure to the three Space Shuttle Main Engines (SSME) in the orbiter. The ET was jettisoned just over 10 seconds after MECO (Main Engine Cut Off), where the SSMEs were shut down, and re-entered the Earth's atmosphere. Unlike the Solid Rocket Boosters, external tanks were not re-used. They broke up before impact in the Indian Ocean (or Pacific Ocean in the case of direct-insertion launch trajectories), away from shipping lanes and were not recovered.\n\nThe ET was the largest element of the space shuttle, and when loaded, it was also the heaviest. It consisted of three major components:\n\nThe ET was the \"backbone\" of the shuttle during launch, providing structural support for attachment with the Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters (SRBs) and orbiter. The tank was connected to each SRB at one forward attachment point (using a crossbeam through the intertank) and one aft bracket, and it was connected to the orbiter at one forward attachment bipod and two aft bipods. In the aft attachment area, there were also umbilicals that carried fluids, gases, electrical signals and electrical power between the tank and the orbiter. Electrical signals and controls between the orbiter and the two solid rocket boosters were also routed through those umbilicals.\n\nAlthough the external tanks were always discarded, it could have been possible to re-use them in orbit. Plans for re-use ranged from incorporation into a space station as extra living or research space, as rocket fuel tanks for interplanetary missions (e.g. Mars), to raw materials for orbiting factories.\n\nAnother concept was to use the ET as a cargo carrier for bulky payloads. One proposal was for the primary mirror of a 7-meter aperture telescope to be carried with the tank. Another concept was the Aft Cargo Carrier (ACC).\n\nOver the years, NASA worked to reduce the weight of the ET to increase overall efficiency. For each pound of weight reduction, the cargo-carrying capability of the shuttle spacecraft was increased almost one pound.\n\nThe original ET is informally known as the Standard Weight Tank (SWT) and was fabricated from 2219, a high-strength aluminum–copper alloy used for many aerospace applications. The first two, used for STS-1 and STS-2, were painted white to protect the tanks from ultraviolet light during the extended time that the shuttle spends on the launch pad prior to launch. Because this did not turn out to be a problem, Lockheed Martin (at that time, Martin Marietta) reduced weight by leaving the rust-colored spray-on insulation unpainted beginning with STS-3, saving approximately .\n\nAfter STS-4, several hundred pounds were eliminated by deleting the anti-geyser line. This line paralleled the oxygen feed line, providing a circulation path for liquid oxygen. This reduces accumulation of gaseous oxygen in the feed line during prelaunch tanking (loading of the LOX). After propellant loading data from ground tests and the first few space shuttle missions were assessed, the anti-geyser line was removed for subsequent missions. The total length and diameter of the ET remain unchanged. The last SWT, flown on STS-7, weighed approximately inert.\n\nBeginning with the STS-6 mission, a lightweight ET (LWT), was introduced. This tank was used for the majority of the Shuttle flights, and was last used on the ill-fated Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster (STS-107). Although tanks vary slightly in weight, each weighed approximately inert.\n\nThe weight reduction from the SWT was accomplished by eliminating portions of stringers (structural stiffeners running the length of the hydrogen tank), using fewer stiffener rings and by modifying major frames in the hydrogen tank. Also, significant portions of the tank were milled differently so as to reduce thickness, and the weight of the ET's aft solid rocket booster attachments was reduced by using a stronger, yet lighter and less expensive titanium alloy.\n\nThe Super Lightweight Tank (SLWT) was first flown in 1998 on STS-91 and was used for all subsequent missions with two exceptions (STS-99 and STS-107). The SLWT had basically the same design as the LWT except that it used an aluminium-lithium alloy (Al 2195) for a large part of the tank structure. This alloy provided a significant reduction in tank weight (~3,175 kg/7,000 lb) over the LWT. Manufacture also included friction stir welding technology. Although all ETs produced after the introduction of the SLWT were of this configuration, one LWT remained in inventory to be used if requested until the end of the shuttle era. The SLWT provided 50% of the performance increase required for the shuttle to reach the International Space Station. The reduction in weight allowed the Orbiter to carry more payload to the highly inclined orbit of the ISS.\n\nSLWT Specifications\nLOX tank\nIntertank\nLH tank\n\nThe contractor for the external tank was Lockheed Martin (previously Martin Marietta), New Orleans, Louisiana. The tank was manufactured at the Michoud Assembly Facility, New Orleans, and was transported to Kennedy Space Center by barge.\n\nThe ET has three primary structures: an LOX tank, an intertank, and an LH tank. Both tanks are constructed of aluminium alloy skins with support or stability frames as required. The intertank aluminium structure utilizes skin stringers with stabilizing frames. The primary aluminium materials used for all three structures are 2195 and 2090 alloys. AL 2195 is an Al-Li alloy designed by Lockheed Martin and Reynolds for storage of cryogenics (and used for the SLW version of the ET - earlier versions used Al 2219). Al 2090 is a commercially available Al-Li alloy.\nThe LOX tank is located at the top of the ET and has an ogive shape to reduce aerodynamic drag and aerothermodynamic heating. The ogive nose section is capped by a flat removable cover plate and a nose cone. The nose cone consists of a removable conical assembly that serves as an aerodynamic fairing for the propulsion and electrical system components. The forward most element of the nose cone functions as a cast aluminium lightning rod. The LOX tank volume is at 22 psig (250 kPa absolute) and (cryogenic).\n\nThe tank feeds into a diameter feed line that conveys the liquid oxygen through the intertank, then outside the ET to the aft right-hand ET/orbiter disconnect umbilical. The diameter feed line permits liquid oxygen to flow at approximately 2,787 lb/s (1264 kg/s) with the SSMEs operating at 104% or permits a maximum flow of 17,592 gal/min (1.1099 m³/s).\n\nAll loads except aerodynamic loads are transferred from the LOX tank at a bolted, flange-joint interface with the intertank.\n\nThe LOX tank also includes an internal slosh baffle and a vortex baffle to dampen fluid slosh. The vortex baffle is mounted over the LOX feed outlet to reduce fluid swirl resulting from slosh and to prevent entrapment of gases in the delivered LOX.\n\nThe intertank is the ET structural connection which joins both the LOX and LH tanks. Its primary functions are to receive and distribute all thrust loads from the SRBs and transfer loads between the tanks.\n\nThe two SRB forward attach fittings are located 180° apart on the intertank structure. A beam is extended across the intertank structure and is mechanically fastened to the attach fittings. When the SRBs are firing, the beam will flex due to high stress loads. These loads will be transferred to the fittings.\n\nAdjoining the SRB attach fittings is a major ring frame. The loads are transferred from the fittings to the major ring frame which then distributes the tangential loads to the intertank skin. Two panels of the intertank skin, called the thrust panels, distribute the concentrated axial SRB thrust loads to the LOX and LH tanks and to adjacent intertank skin panels. These adjacent panels are made up of six stringer-stiffened panels.\n\nThe intertank also functions as a protective compartment for housing the operational instrumentation.\n\nThe LH tank is the bottom portion of the ET. The tank is constructed of four cylindrical barrel sections, a forward dome, and an aft dome. The barrel sections are joined together by five major ring frames. These ring frames receive and distribute loads. The forward dome-to-barrel frame distributes the loads applied through the intertank structure and is also the flange for attaching the LH tank to the intertank. The aft major ring receives orbiter-induced loads from the aft orbiter support struts and SRB-induced loads from the aft SRB support struts. The remaining three ring frames distribute orbiter thrust loads and LOX feedline support loads. Loads from the frames are then distributed through the barrel skin panels. The LH tank has a volume of at 29.3 psig (3.02 bar absolute) and (cryogenic).\n\nThe forward and aft domes have the same modified ellipsoidal shape. For the forward dome, mounting provisions are incorporated for the LH vent valve, the LH pressurization line fitting, and the electrical feed-through fitting. The aft dome has a manhole fitting for access to the LH feedline screen and a support fitting for the LH feedline.\n\nThe LH tank also has a vortex baffle to reduce swirl resulting from slosh and to prevent entrapment of gases in the delivered LH. The baffle is located at the siphon outlet just above the aft dome of the LH tank. This outlet transmits the liquid hydrogen from the tank through a line to the left aft umbilical. The liquid hydrogen feed line flow rate is 465 lb/s (211 kg/s) with the SSMEs at 104% or a maximum flow of 47,365 US gal/min (2.988 m³/s).\n\nThe ET thermal protection system consists primarily of spray-on foam insulation (SOFI), plus preformed foam pieces and premolded ablator materials. The system also includes the use of phenolic thermal insulators to preclude air liquefaction. Thermal isolators are required for liquid hydrogen tank attachments to preclude the liquefaction of air on exposed metal, and to reduce heat flow into the liquid hydrogen. While the warmer liquid oxygen results in fewer thermal requirements, the aluminum of the liquid oxygen tank forward areas require protection from aeroheating. Meanwhile, insulation on the aft surfaces prevents liquified air from pooling in the intertank. The middle cylinder of the oxygen tank, and the propellant lines, could withstand the expected depths of frost accumulation condensed from humidity, but the orbiter could not take the damage from ice breaking free. The thermal protection system weighs .\n\nDevelopment of the ETs thermal protection system was problematic. Anomalies in foam application were so frequent that they were treated as variances, not safety incidents. NASA had difficulty preventing fragments of foam from detaching during flight for the entire history of the program:\n\n\nIn 1995, chlorofluorocarbon-11 (CFC-11) began to be withdrawn from large-area, machine-sprayed foams in compliance with an Environmental Protection Agency ban on CFCs under section 610 of the Clean Air Act. In its place, a hydrochlorofluorocarbon known as HCFC-141b was certified for use and phased into the shuttle program. Remaining foams, particularly detail pieces sprayed by hand, continue to use CFC-11 to this day. These areas include the problematic bipod and PAL ramps, as well as some fittings and interfaces. For the bipod ramp in particular, \"the process of applying foam to that part of the tank had not changed since 1993.\" The \"new\" foam containing HCFC 141b was first used on the aft dome portion of ET-82 during the flight of STS-79 in 1996. Use of HCFC 141b was expanded to the ETs area, or larger portions of the tank, starting with ET-88, which flew on STS-86 in 1997.\n\nDuring the lift-off of STS-107 on January 16, 2003, a piece of foam insulation detached from one of the tank's bipod ramps and struck the leading edge of Space Shuttle \"Columbia\"'s wing at a few hundred miles per hour. The impact is believed to have damaged one comparatively large reinforced carbon-carbon panel on the leading edge of the left wing, believed to be about the size of a basketball which then allowed super-heated gas to enter the wing superstructure several days later during re-entry. This resulted in the destruction of \"Columbia\" and the loss of its crew. The report determined that the external fuel tank, ET-93, \"had been constructed with BX-250\", a closeout foam whose blowing agent was CFC-11 and not the newer HCFC 141b.\n\nIn 2005, the problem of foam shed had not been fully cured; on STS-114, additional cameras mounted on the tank recorded a piece of foam separated from one of its Protuberance Air Load (PAL) ramps, which are designed to prevent unsteady air flow underneath the tank’s cable trays and pressurization lines during ascent. The PAL ramps consist of manually sprayed layers of foam, and are more likely to become a source of debris. That piece of foam did not impact the orbiter.\n\nReports published concurrent with the STS-114 mission suggest that excessive handling of the ET during modification and upgrade may have contributed to the foam loss on \"Discovery\"'s Return to Flight mission. However, three shuttle missions (STS-121, STS-115, and STS-116) have since been conducted, all with \"acceptable\" levels of foam loss. However, on STS-118 a piece of foam (and/or ice) about 10 cm in diameter separated from a feedline attachment bracket on the tank, ricocheted off one of the aft struts and struck the underside of the wing, damaging two tiles. The damage was not considered dangerous.\n\nThe external hardware, ET–orbiter attachment fittings, umbilical fittings, and electrical and range safety system weigh .\n\nEach propellant tank has a vent and relief valve at its forward end. This dual-function valve can be opened by ground support equipment for the vent function during prelaunch and can open during flight when the ullage (empty space) pressure of the liquid hydrogen tank reaches 38 psig (262 kPa) or the ullage pressure of the liquid oxygen tank reaches 25 psig (172 kPa).\n\nOn early flights, the liquid oxygen tank contained a separate, pyrotechnically operated, propulsive tumble vent valve at its forward end. At separation, the liquid oxygen tumble vent valve was opened, providing impulse to assist in the separation maneuver and more positive control of the entry aerodynamics of the ET. The last flight with the tumble valve active was STS-36.\n\nEach of the two aft external tank umbilical plates mate with a corresponding plate on the orbiter. The plates help maintain alignment among the umbilicals. Physical strength at the umbilical plates is provided by bolting corresponding umbilical plates together. When the orbiter GPCs command external tank separation, the bolts are severed by pyrotechnic devices.\n\nThe ET has five propellant umbilical valves that interface with orbiter umbilicals: two for the liquid oxygen tank and three for the liquid hydrogen tank. One of the liquid oxygen tank umbilical valves is for liquid oxygen, the other for gaseous oxygen. The liquid hydrogen tank umbilical has two valves for liquid and one for gas. The intermediate-diameter liquid hydrogen umbilical is a recirculation umbilical used only during the liquid hydrogen chill-down sequence during prelaunch.\nAs the ET is filled, excess gaseous hydrogen is vented through umbilical connections over a large diameter pipe on an arm extended from the fixed service structure. The connection for this pipe between the ET and service structure is made at the ground umbilical carrier plate (GUCP). Sensors are also installed at the GUCP to measure Hydrogen levels. Countdowns of STS-80, STS-119, STS-127 and STS-133 have been halted and resulted in several week delays in the later cases due to hydrogen leaks at this connection. This requires complete draining of the tanks and removal of all hydrogen via helium gas purge, a 20-hour process, before technicians can inspect and repair problems.\n\nA cap mounted to the swing-arm on the fixed service structure covers the oxygen tank vent on top of the ET during the countdown and is retracted about two minutes before lift- off. The cap siphons off oxygen vapor that threatens to form large ice accumulations on the ET, thus protecting the orbiter's thermal protection system during launch.\n\nThere are eight propellant-depletion sensors, four each for fuel and oxidizer. The fuel-depletion sensors are located in the bottom of the fuel tank. The oxidizer sensors are mounted in the orbiter liquid oxygen feed line manifold downstream of the feed line disconnect. During SSME thrusting, the orbiter general-purpose computers constantly compute the instantaneous mass of the vehicle due to the usage of the propellants. Normally, main engine cutoff is based on a predetermined velocity; however, if any two of the fuel or oxidizer sensors sense a dry condition, the engines will be shut down.\n\nThe locations of the liquid oxygen sensors allow the maximum amount of oxidizer to be consumed in the engines, while allowing sufficient time to shut down the engines before the oxidizer pumps cavitate (run dry). In addition, of liquid hydrogen are loaded over and above that required by the 6-1 oxidizer / fuel engine mixture ratio. This assures that cutoff from the depletion sensors is fuel-rich; oxidizer-rich engine shutdowns can cause burning and severe erosion of engine components, potentially leading to loss of the vehicle and crew.\n\nUnexplained, erroneous readings from fuel depletion sensors have delayed several shuttle launch attempts, most notably STS-122. On 2007-12-18 a tanking test determined the cause of the errors to be a fault in a wiring connector, rather than a failure of the sensors themselves.\n\nFour pressure transducers located at the top of the liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen tanks monitor the ullage pressures.\n\nThe ET also has two electrical umbilicals that carry electrical power from the orbiter to the tank and the two SRBs and provide information from the SRBs and ET to the orbiter.\n\nThe ET has external cameras mounted in the brackets attached to the shuttle along with transmitters that can continue to send video data long after the shuttle and the ET have separated.\n\nEarlier tanks incorporated a range safety system to disperse tank propellants if necessary. It included a battery power source, a receiver/decoder, antennas and ordnance. Starting with STS-79 this system was disabled, and was completely removed for STS-88 and all subsequent flights.\n\nIn 1990, it was suggested that the external tank be used as a lunar habitat or as an orbital station. These proposals did not come to fruition.\n\nWith the retirement of the Space Shuttle in 2011, NASA, with its planned Project Constellation, which features the Apollo-derived Orion spacecraft, would also have featured the debut of two Shuttle-derived launch vehicles, the man-rated Ares I crew-launch vehicle and the heavy-lift Ares V cargo-launch vehicle.\n\nWhile both the Ares I and Ares V would have utilized a modified five-segment Solid Rocket Booster for its first stage, the current ET would have served as a baseline technology for the first stage of the Ares V and the second stage of the Ares I; as a comparison, the Ares I second stage would have held approximately of LOX, versus the ET holding , more than 5 times that amount.\n\nThe Ares V first stage, which would have been fitted with five RS-68 rocket engines (the same engine used on the Delta IV rocket), will be in diameter, as wide as the S-IC and S-II stages on the Saturn V rocket. It would have utilized the same internal ET configuration (separate LH and LOX tanks separated with an intertank structure), but would have been configured to directly accept LH and LOX fill and drain, along with LOX venting on a retractable arm like that used on the Shuttle for LH (as the \"beanie cap\" would have been useless due to the in-line design of the three-stage vehicle).\n\nThe Ares I second stage, on the other hand, would have only used the spray-on insulation foam currently used on the current ET. Originally configured like that of the Ares V and the Shuttle ET, NASA, upon completing its design review in 2006, decided, in order to save weight and costs, to reconfigure the internal structure of the second stage by using a combined LH/LOX tank with the propellants separated by a common bulkhead, a configuration successfully used on the S-II and S-IVB stages of the Saturn V rocket. Unlike the Ares V, which would have used the same fill/drain/vent configuration used on the Shuttle, the Ares I system would have utilized a traditional fill/drain/vent system used on the Saturn IB and Saturn V rockets, but with quick-retracting arms due to the \"leap frog\" speed the Ares I will expect upon SRB ignition.\n\nAs originally envisioned, both the Ares I and Ares V would have used a modified \"throw away\" version of the SSME, but in due course, because of the need to keep R&D costs down and to maintain a schedule set by NASA Administration Michael D. Griffin to launch the Ares and Orion by 2011, NASA decided (after the 2006 review) to switch to the cheaper RS-68 engine for the Ares V and to an uprated J-2 engine for the Ares I. Because of the switch to the less efficient RS-68, the Ares V was widened from to accommodate the extra propellants, while the Ares I was reconfigured to incorporate a fifth solid-rocket segment with the J-2X upper stage, as the new engine has less thrust than the original SSME. Because of the trade-off, NASA would save an estimated USD $35 million by using simplified, higher thrust RS-68 engines (reconfigured to fire and perform like the SSME), while at the same time, eliminate the costly tests needed for an air-startable SSME for the Ares I (as the J-2X and its predecessor were designed to be started in both mid-air and in a near vacuum).\n\nThe DIRECT project, a proposed alternative shuttle-derived vehicle,would have used a modified, standard diameter, external tank with three SSMEs, with two standard SRBM, as a Crew Launch Vehicle. The same vehicle, with one extra SSME, and an EDS upper stage, would have served as the Cargo Launch Vehicle. It was planned to save $16 billion, eliminate NASA job losses, and reduce the post-shuttle, manned spaceflight gap from five plus years to two or less.\n\nMPTA-ET is on display with the Space Shuttle Pathfinder at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama. \n\nET-94 (older version LWT) is in Los Angeles and in 2019 will be displayed with Space Shuttle \"Endeavour\" at the California Science Center when the Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center opens.\n\nThree other external tanks were in preparation, when the manufacturing stopped. ET-139 is at advanced stage of manufacturing; ET-140 and ET-141 are in early stages of manufacturing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55182595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55182595", "title": "Sue Biggins", "text": "Sue Biggins\n\nSue Biggins (born 1968) is an American cell biologist who studies kinetochores and the transfer of chromosomes during cell division. Her team isolated kinetochores from cells, enabling them to be studied separately under laboratory conditions. They also discovered that tension helps kinetochores to attach to microtubules and move from the mother cell to the daughter cells when cells divide. The methodology and concepts she developed for yeast kinetochores are being adopted in laboratories around the world.\nBiggins was elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences (AAAS) in 2018.\n\nBiggins received her BS in biology in 1990 from Stanford University and her Ph.D. in Molecular Biology in 1995 at Princeton University.\n\nBiggins is currently the associate director and a full member of the basic sciences division at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center as well as an affiliate professor for the department of biochemistry at the University of Washington. \n\nShe was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 2015 and to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2018. \nShe received the National Academy of Sciences Award in Molecular Biology in 2013.\n\nBiggins has also received a Beckman Young Investigators Award in 2003. \nBiggins is also a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator. \nShe was awarded the Novitski Prize of the Genetics Society of America in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "29324870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29324870", "title": "Talking past each other", "text": "Talking past each other\n\nTalking past each other is an English phrase describing the situation where two or more people talk about different subjects, while believing that they are talking about the same thing.\n\nThe idiomatic expression is an allusion to the interaction between Thrasymachus and Socrates over the question of \"justice\" in Plato's \"Republic I.\" In their dialogue, neither man addressed any of the issues raised by the other and two different concepts which need not have been disputed are somehow confused.\n\nIn fictional dialogue, when characters \"\"talk past each other\", ...[they are said to] expose an unbridgeable gulf between their respective perceptions and intentions. The result is an exchange, but never an interchange, of words in fragmented and cramped utterances...\"\n\nThe phrase is used in widely varying contexts. For example, in 1917 Albert Einstein and David Hilbert had dawn-to-dusk discussions of physics; and they continued their debate in writing, although Felix Klein records that they \"talked past each other\", as happens not infrequently between simultaneously producing mathematicians.'\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "814746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=814746", "title": "Theophilus Painter", "text": "Theophilus Painter\n\nTheophilus Shickel Painter (August 22, 1889 – October 5, 1969) was an American zoologist best-known for his work on the structure and function of chromosomes, especially the sex-determination genes X and Y in humans. He also carried out work in identifying genes in fruit flies (\"Drosophila\"). His work exploited the giant polytene chromosomes in the salivary glands of Drosophila and other Dipteran larvae.\n\nPainter joined the faculty at the University of Texas in 1916 and, except for military duty during World War I, stayed there his whole career. He was, in succession, associate professor, professor and distinguished professor of zoology. He served as acting president (1944–1946) and president (1946–1952) of the University of Texas and retired from active teaching in 1966.\n\nPainter was president of the University of Texas when Texas resident Heman Marion Sweatt applied for and was denied admission due to his race. Subsequently, Painter was the named defendant in the civil rights case \"Sweatt v. Painter\", 339 U.S.629 (1950), which proved an integral stepping stone in the landmark case Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas that held that \"separate is inherently unequal\" and led to the integration of America's public schools.\n\nPainter is also known for his early study of human chromosomes. In 1921 he first gave the number 24 for the count of human meiotic chromosomes. He had tried to count the tangled mass of chromosomes he could see under a microscope in spermatocytes in slices of testicle and arrived at the figure of 24. Others later repeated his experiment in other ways and agreed upon the number of 24. Popular thinking held that if there were 24 chromosomes in spermatocytes, there must be an equal number contributed by the female and the human chromosome number must be 48, which was undisputed for more than 30 years. Then in 1955, Joe Hin Tjio, using more advanced techniques, looked at the chromosomes in human somatic cells and found 46 chromosomes. Together with Albert Levan, Tjio published his finding in early 1956, and the human chromosome number was finally revised.\n\nIn 1934 Painter was awarded the Daniel Giraud Elliot Medal from the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59106773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59106773", "title": "Xue-Min Cheng", "text": "Xue-Min Cheng\n\nXue-Min Cheng is a medicinal chemist, author, and pharmaceutical executive best known for being the co-author of \"The Logic of Chemical Synthesis\", which formalized retrosynthesis, the \n\nconcept for which Elias J. Corey won the 1990 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nCheng earned her BS in chemistry from Peking University, and a doctoral degree in synthetic chemistry from Alan Kozikowski at the University of Pittsburgh. Her work studied applications of nitrile oxides, for example cycloadditions to form C-glycosides, or utilization of nitrile oxides as precursors to functionalized heterocycles. While a postdoctoral scholar at Harvard, Cheng co-authored \"The Logic of Chemical Synthesis\" with Corey, the first three chapters of which explore computational and logic-based approaches to disassemble organic molecule \"targets\" (TGTs) through various transforms, leading to \"retrons\" and \"synthons\", e.g. simpler molecules that could be used to access the TGT. Noteworthy here is the Preface, which indicates that all structures found in the book were drawn \"by computer\", that is, with the then-new \"ChemDraw\" software package adapted by Stewart Rubenstein, David A. Evans, and Sally Evans.\n\nAfter Harvard, Cheng took a position at Warner-Lambert Research, later Pfizer, in Michigan. Work there included ketopiperazine-based renin inhibitors, HMG-CoA inhibitors, and molecules against multiple other cardiovascular targets. In 2006, Cheng moved to the University of Michigan as a research associate professor, while simultaneously joining a contract research firm on the former Pfizer Michigan campus called AAPharmaSyn. Cheng rose to become the eventual President of the firm, before departing in 2011.\n\nSince 2011, Cheng and colleagues at Michigan have focused their efforts on DARPA-backed dendrimeric drug delivery systems for battlefield use.\n"}
{"id": "1061330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061330", "title": "Zytglogge", "text": "Zytglogge\n\nThe Zytglogge ( ) is a landmark medieval tower in Bern, Switzerland. Built in the early 13th century, it has served the city as guard tower, prison, clock tower, centre of urban life and civic memorial.\n\nDespite the many redecorations and renovations it has undergone in its 800 years of existence, the Zytglogge is one of Bern's most recognisable symbols and, with its 15th-century astronomical clock, a major tourist attraction. It is a heritage site of national significance, and part of the Old City of Bern, a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site.\n\nWhen it was built around 1218–20, the Zytglogge served as the gate tower of Bern's western fortifications. These were erected after the city's first westward expansion following its \"de facto\" independence from the Empire. At that time, the Zytglogge was a squat building of only in height. When the rapid growth of the city and the further expansion of the fortifications (up to the Käfigturm) relegated the tower to second-line status at around 1270–75, it was heightened by to overlook the surrounding houses.\n\nOnly after the city's western defences were extended again in 1344–46 up to the now-destroyed Christoffelturm, the Zytglogge was converted to a women's prison, notably housing \"Pfaffendirnen\" – \"priests' whores\", women convicted of sexual relations with clerics. At this time, the Zytglogge also received its first slanted roof.\nIn the great fire of 1405, the tower burnt out completely. It suffered severe structural damage that required thorough repairs, which were not complete until after the last restoration in 1983. The prison cells were abandoned and a clock was first installed above the gate in the early 15th century, probably including a simple astronomical clock and musical mechanism. This clock, together with the great bell cast in 1405, gave the Zytglogge its name, which in Bernese German means \"time bell\".\n\nIn the late 15th century, the Zytglogge and the other Bernese gate towers were extended and decorated after the Burgundian Romantic fashion. The Zytglogge received a new lantern (including the metal bellman visible today), four decorative corner towerlets, heraldic decorations and probably its stair tower. The astronomical clock was extended to its current state. In 1527–30, the clockwork was completely rebuilt by Kaspar Brunner, and the gateway was overarched to provide a secure foundation for the heavy machinery.\nThe Zytglogge's exterior was repainted by Gotthard Ringgli and Kaspar Haldenstein in 1607–10, who introduced the large clock faces that now dominate the east and west façades of the tower. The corner towerlets were removed again some time before 1603. In 1770–71, the Zytglogge was renovated by Niklaus Hebler and Ludwig Emanuel Zehnder, who refurbished the structure in order to suit the tastes of the late Baroque, giving the tower its contemporary outline.\n\nBoth façades were again repainted in the Rococo style by Rudolf von Steiger in 1890. The idealising historicism of the design came to be disliked in the 20th century, and a 1929 competition produced the façade designs visible today: on the west façade, Victor Surbek's fresco \"Beginning of Time\" and on the east façade, a reconstruction of the 1770 design by Kurt Indermühle. In 1981–83, the Zytglogge was thoroughly renovated again and generally restored to its 1770 appearance. In the advent season and from Easter until the end of October, it is illuminated after dusk.\n\nThe Bernese German \"Zytglogge\" translates to \"Zeitglocke\" in Standard German and to \"time bell\" in English; 'Glocke' means 'bell' in German, as in the related term 'glockenspiel'. A \"time bell\" was one of the earliest public timekeeping devices, consisting of a clockwork connected to a hammer that rang a small bell at the full hour. Such a device was installed in the \"Wendelstein\" in Bern – the tower of the \"Leutkirche\" church which the Münster later replaced – in 1383 at the latest; it alerted the bell-ringer to ring the tower bells.\n\nThe name of \"Zytglogge\" was first recorded in 1413. Previously, the tower was referred to as the \"kebie\" (\"cage\", i.e., prison) and after its post-1405 reconstruction, the \"nüwer turm\" (\"new tower\").\n\nThe Zytglogge has an overall height of , and a height of up to the roof-edge. Its rectangular floor plan measures . The wall strengths vary widely, ranging from in the west, where the tower formed part of the city walls, to in the east.\n\nThe outward appearance of the Zytglogge is determined by the 1770 renovation. Only the late Gothic cornice below the roof and the stair tower are visible artifacts of the tower's earlier history.\n\nThe main body of the tower is divided into the two-storey plinth, whose exterior is made of alpine limestone, and the three-storey tower shaft sheathed in sandstone. The shaft's seemingly massive corner blocks are decorative fixtures held in place by visible iron hooks. Below the roof, the cornice spans around the still-visible bases of the former corner towerlets. The two-story attic is covered by the sweeping, red-tiled, late Gothic spire, in which two spire lights are set to the West and East. They are crowned by ornamental urns with pinecone knobs reconstructed in 1983 from 18th-century drawings.\n\nFrom atop the spire, the wooden pinnacle, copper-sheathed since 1930, rises an additional into the skies, crowned with a gilded knob and a weather vane displaying a cut-out coat of arms of Bern.\n\nThe tower's two namesake bronze bells hang in the cupola at its very top.\nThe great hour bell, cast by Johann Reber, has remained unchanged since the tower's reconstruction in 1405. It has a diameter of , a weight of and rings with a nominal tone of \"e\"'. The inscription on the bell reads, in Latin: \"In the October month of the year 1405 I was cast by Master John called Reber of Aarau. I am vessel and wax, and to all I tell the hours of the day.\"\n\nWhen the great bell rings out every full hour, struck by a large clockwork-operated hammer, passers-by see a gilded figure in full harness moving its arm to strike it. The larger-than-life figure of bearded Chronos, the Greek personification of time, is traditionally nicknamed \"Hans von Thann\" by the Bernese. The wooden bell-striker, which has been replaced several times, has been a fixture of the Zytglogge since the renewal of the astronomical clock in 1530, whose clockwork also controls the figure's motions. The original wooden \"Chronos\" might have been created by master craftsman Albrecht von Nürnberg, while the current and most recent \"Hans\" is a 1930 reconstruction of a Baroque original. The bell-striker has been gilded, just like the bells, since 1770.\n\nBelow the hour bell hangs the smaller quarter-hour bell, also rung by a clockwork hammer. It was cast in 1887 to replace the cracked 1486 original.\n\nBoth principal façades, East and West, are dominated by massive clockfaces. The Zytglogge's first clockface was likely located on the plinth, but was moved up to the center of the shaft during the tower's 15th-century reconfiguration.\n\nThe eastern clock face features an outer ring of large golden Roman numerals, on which the larger hand indicates the hour, and an inner ring on which the smaller hand indicates the minutes. The golden sun on the hour hand is pivot-mounted so that it always faces up. Below the clock face one sees an idealised profile of city founder Duke Berchtold V of Zähringen. While the exact decoration of the clockface has varied from renovation to renovation, the current (post-1983) layout is generally that of 1770.\n\nThe western clock face has similar hands, but is an integral part of Victor Surbek's 1929 fresco \"Beginning of Time\". The painting depicts Chronos swooping down with cape fluttering, and, below the clockface, Adam and Eve's eviction from Paradise by an angel.\n\nThe dial of the Zytglogge's astronomical clock is built in the form of an astrolabe. It is backed by a stereographically projected planisphere divided into three zones: the black night sky, the deep blue zone of dawn and the light blue day sky. The skies are crisscrossed with the golden lines of the horizon, dawn, the tropics and the temporal hours, which divide the time of daylight into twelve hours whose length varies with the time of year.\n\nAround the planisphere moves the \"rete\", a web-like metal cutout representing the zodiac, which also features a Julian calendar dial. Above the \"rete\", a display indicates the day of the week. Because leap days are not supported by the clockwork, the calendar hand has to be reset manually each leap year on 29 February. A moon dial circles the inner ring of the zodiac, displaying the moon phase. The principal hand of the clock indicates the time of day on the outer ring of 24 golden Roman numerals, which run twice from I to XII. It features two suns, the smaller one indicating the date on the \"rete\"'s calendar dial. The larger one circles the zodiac at one revolution per year and also rotates across the planisphere once per day. Its crossing of the horizon and dawn lines twice per day allows the timing of sunrise, dawn, dusk and sunset.\n\nThe painted frieze above the astronomical clock shows five deities from classical antiquity, each representing both a day of the week and a planet in their order according to Ptolemaic cosmology. From left to right, they are: Saturn with sickle and club for Saturday, Jupiter with thunderbolts for Thursday, Mars with sword and shield for Tuesday, Venus with Cupid for Friday and Mercury with staff and bag for Wednesday. The painting of the entire clock area was refurbished in 1983. Only the matte areas on the clock face are from the earlier coat of paint.\n\nThe clock dial has been dated to either the building phases of 1405 or 1467-83, or to the installation of the Brunner clockwork in 1527-30. Ueli Bellwald notes that the planisphere uses a southern projection, as was characteristic for 15th-century astronomical clocks; all later such clocks use a northern projection. This would seem to confirm the dating of the clock to the 1405 or 1467/83 renovations.\n\nA clock is documented in this tower since 1405, when a new bell was installed. The city accounts of 1438 mention the repair of the clockworks. The first mention of a dial is in 1443, and the first known image of the, much smaller first astrolabium dial (in the diary a cobbler journeyman from Ulm) is dated 1534. The jacquemart (bellstriker) is also documented in the same 1534 source.\n\nIn the first two decades of the sixteenth century many craftsmen unsuccessfully tried to improve the clockworks. The current movement was made in 1530 by clockmaker Kaspar Brunner and is dated and signed by a forged nameplate. No other clockworks by this master are known. The core of the movement was forged \"in situ\", in the very room it is still located, and the fire pit of the forge remains in the room. One of the more unusual features of the movement is that each individual tooth of the major gears is removable (i.e., replaceable as it wears).\n\nOriginally, the movement had a verge escapement with a foliot, as it was built 127 years before the pendulum clock was invented. The Zytglogge movement was converted to a much more accurate pendulum mechanism by the French clockmaker Pierre Angely between 1686 and 1688. The current pendulum bob, a \"recycled\" iron cannonball, possibly dates from that time. The pendulum suspension is made from leather rather than using a metal spring.\n\nThe weight-driven movement is wound daily by hand. That task, a role known as the \"Zytgloggenrichter\", has been held for over 25 years by the same individual.\n\nThe Zytglogge's internal layout has changed over time to reflect the tower's change of purpose from guard tower to city prison to clock tower. The thirteenth-century guard tower was not much more than a hollow shell of walls that was open towards the city in the east. Only in the fourteenth century was a layer of four storeys inserted.\n\nThe rooms above the clockwork mechanism were used by the city administration for various purposes up until the late 20th century, including as archives, storerooms, as a firehose magazine and even as an air raid shelter. The interior was frequently remodelled in a careless, even vandalistic fashion; for instance, all but three of the original wooden beams supporting the intermediate floors were destroyed. Since 1979, the tower's interior is empty again. It is only accessed for maintenance and in the course of regular guided tours.\n\n\n"}
