{"id": "561320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561320", "title": "7-1-1", "text": "7-1-1\n\nIn Canada and the United States, the 711 telephone number is used for the Telecommunications Relay Service to translate from TDD for the deaf to speech, and vice versa. The relay service allows deaf people to converse with the hearing over the phone through an operator. 711 is one of eight N11 codes for abbreviated dialing in the North American Numbering Plan.\n\nIn the U.S., every phone company is required to connect persons who dial 711 to a TRS call center from a working number.\n\nIn July 2007, the Federal Communications Commission ruled that the 711 requirement extended to VOIP telephony.\n"}
{"id": "32191809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32191809", "title": "American Music Performance Invitational for Mixed Choirs", "text": "American Music Performance Invitational for Mixed Choirs\n\nThe American Music Performance Invitational for Mixed Choirs refers to a series of music festivals for top school choirs. The festivals are more commonly referred to as the AMP Invitationals. Produced by Choirs of America (COA), the inaugural AMP Invitational took place in Long Beach and Los Angeles on April 29-30, 2011. COA's stated mission is \"to \"engage, inspire\" and \"educate\" choirs across the country.\" COA was recently named a \"Citizen Musician\" as part of the Citizen Musician Initiative fronted by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, music director Riccardo Muti and Yo-Yo Ma. Wenger Corp is COA's title sponsor.\n\nCOA's first AMP Invitational took place on April 29-30, 2011. Clinicians and adjudicators included Jo-Michael Scheibe, Cheryl Frazes-Hill (assistant conductor of the Chicago Symphony Chorus, Jonathan Talberg, William Belan and Bruce Mayhall. Workshop presenters included Broadway producer Ken Davenport, motivational speaker Norm Hull, David Sears (senior director of education at the GRAMMY Foundation) and Terry Knowles (president and CEO of the Los Angeles Master Chorale).\n\nThe event culminated in a massed choir benefit concert with master conductor Eric Whitacre leading over 630 high school singers from three different states in a program that raised over $3,600.00 for L.A.'s Harmony Project. Participants included top mixed high school choirs from Branham, Calabasas, Chino Hills, Highland, Monte Vista, Porterville, Sprague, Thomas Downey, Tualatin, Westwood and Valencia. Highland High School from Gilbert, Arizona earned the coveted top rated choir slot (Monte Vista came in second, with Sprague placing third). \n\nDay one is a bonus day for subsidiary ensembles to have adjudicated performances and faculty reviews. Day 2 will feature adjudicated performances for primary ensembles, full one-hour clinics with Master Clinicians and Adjudicators Andre Thomas, Jerry Blackstone, Jeffrey Douma, and Gene Peterson. Vocal master classes with Matthew Oltman (music director emeritus of Chanticleer) and other workshops are also scheduled for all choirs.\n\nDay two will occur at Carnegie Hall and will feature a massed choir rehearsal and prism concert led by Master Conductor, Anton Armstrong.\n\nFeatured clinicians and adjudicators include Jo-Michael Scheibe, Sharon Paul, Joshua Habermann (director of the Dallas Symphony Chorus), Timothy Seelig, and Susan McMane. Matthew Oltman will run the vocal master classes and Roger Treece will lead workshops in circle song improvisation. Day two will take place in Louise M. Davies Symphony Hall with master conductor Grant Gershon.\n\nDay one will take place at the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland and will feature Jerry Blackstone, Karen Kennedy and Jameson Marvin as clinicians. Day two will occur at the Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center and will feature a massed choir benefit concert led by master conductor, Simon Carrington.\n\n"}
{"id": "17033652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17033652", "title": "Avicenna Directories", "text": "Avicenna Directories\n\nThe Avicenna Directory project was a public database of worldwide medical schools, schools of pharmacy, schools of public health and educational institutions of other academic health professions. The Avicenna Directory was maintained by the University of Copenhagen in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Federation for Medical Education (WFME) in the years 2008-2015.\n\nIn 2013, the Avicenna Directory was merged with the International Medical Education Directory (IMED) to create the World Directory of Medical Schools. This new directory was launched in April 2014.\n\nThe project was named after Avicenna, a Persian physician and philosopher born near Bukhara in the 10th century.\n\nThe AVICENNA Directory for medicine was a public database of worldwide medical schools. It replaced the WHO World Directory of Medical Schools in 2008.\n\nThe WHO published the World Directory of Medical Schools from 1953–2007. The seventh and final print edition of the directory was published in 2000 and listed around 1700 schools in 162 countries. Between 2000-2007, the WHO published the directory electronically, along with updates received after the 2000 print publication. In August 2007, the WHO signed an agreement with the University of Copenhagen to transfer responsibility for development and maintenance of the directory. In March 2008, the AVICENNA project was announced and in August 2008, the contents of the World Directory of Medical Schools were transferred to the AVICENNA Directory for medicine.\n\nIn 2013, the AVICENNA Directories merged with the International Medical Education Directory (IMED) to create the World Directory of Medical Schools.\n\nThe Avicenna Directory included contact details, admission rules, program descriptions, titles of degrees and diplomas awarded, and accreditation status of institutions.\n\nThe Avicenna Directories are maintained and primarily developed at the University of Copenhagen. Collaborating organizations on the project include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1903708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903708", "title": "Bangla Academy", "text": "Bangla Academy\n\nThe Bangla Academy () is Bangladesh's national language authority, established in 1955. It is located in Burdwan House in Ramna, Dhaka, within the grounds of the University of Dhaka and Suhrawardy Udyan.\n\nThe Bangla Academy hosts the annual Ekushey Book Fair.\n\nThe importance of establishing an organisation for Bengali language was first emphasised by the linguist Muhammad Shahidullah. Later, following the Language movement, on 27 April 1952, the All Party National Language Committee decided to demand establishment of an organisation for the promotion of Bengali language. During the 1954 parliamentary elections, the United Front's 21-point manifesto stated that, \"The prime minister from the United Front will dedicate the Bardhaman House for establishing a research center for the Bengali language\". Following the election success of the Front, the education minister Syed Azizul Haque placed the order to fulfill this promise.\n\nIn 1955, the government formed a committee to expedite the process. The committee was composed of leading intellectuals like Muhammad Shahidullah, Qazi Motahar Hossain, S.M. Bhattacharya, W. H. Shadani, and Muhammad Barkatullah. On 3 December 1955, the Chief Minister of East Bengal, Abu Hussain Sarkar, inaugurated the institute. Barkatullah acted as the Special Officer in charge. Later, in 1956, Muhammad Enamul Haque took over as the first director.\n\nIn 1957, an act of the parliament formally established the funding source and the Government support for the institute. The first book published by the academy was Laili Maznu, an epic by the medieval poet Dawlat Ujir Bahram Khan, and edited by Ahmed Sharif. The first fellow of the academy was the poet Farrukh Ahmed.\n\nThe publication division was established in early 1957; the research, culture and library divisions and translation division were set in 1958 and 1961 respectively.\n\nAfter the independence of Bangladesh, the director's position was renamed Director General. Mazharul Islam, head of Bangla Department of Rajshahi University, was the first Director General of the institute.\nOn 19 September 2008, a new 8-storied building, containing a 500-capacity auditorium and a 100-capacity seminar room, opened next to the main building.\n\nThe functions and structure of the institute was devised on the model of the French Academy.\n\n\nThe main task of the Academy is to conduct research on Bengali language, culture, and history, and to publish Bengali literary and research work.\n\nTo commemorate the Language movement and the Language martyr's day, the Academy organizes the month-long Ekushey Book Fair, the largest book fair in the country.\n\nThis award is conferred for significant contributions to Rabindranath Tagore works.\n\nThis award is conferred to the Bangladeshi poets since 2010.\n\nAs of 2016, there are 159 persons made Honorary Fellows by the academy.\n"}
{"id": "30272269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30272269", "title": "Berlin Prize", "text": "Berlin Prize\n\nThe Berlin Prize is a residential fellowship at the Hans Arnhold Center, awarded by the American Academy in Berlin.\n\n2016 winners\n\n"}
{"id": "18225495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18225495", "title": "Cambridge University International Development", "text": "Cambridge University International Development\n\nCambridge University International Development or CUiD is a student run society aiming to promote awareness and discussion of international development issues across Cambridge. This is primarily achieved through events, a thrice yearly publication, Vision and the global network U8. CUiD also has links with the twice yearly Cambridge International Development Course (IDC) and is a member of The Humanitarian Centre.\n\nCUiD was founded in 2005 by Sheena Sumaria, a student of St John's College, Cambridge with the goal of 'Raising awareness and increasing understanding of the issues surrounding International Development' and since then has been rapidly expanding every year. Now its membership base is nearly 600 with a central committee of at least 25. CUiD is headed by two co-presidents who are elected by its members every academic year.\n\nCUiD runs a series of events predominantly scheduled in the Michaelmas and Lent terms of the University of Cambridge. They include the following:\n\nVision is CUiD's termly magazine which deals with concerns relating to international development. It is usually themed around a particular topic, for example \"drugs and development\" and is predominantly written by Cambridge University students. To view past editions go to CUiD's webpage\n\nCUiD is a founding member of the U8. The U8 is a global network to link universities across the world to promote dialogue and share ideas.\n\n2009 was Cambridge's 800th Anniversary, which CUiD celebrated with a special event and publication: Vision - Assessing our Legacy. This encompassed an art exhibition and an inaugural speech by Professor Keith Hart entitled \"International Development: a Historical Perspective from Cambridge\".\n\nFurthermore CUiD hosted the Cambridge International Development Summit (CIDs), whose speakers included Nick Dyer, Director of Policy, Department for International Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "16953271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16953271", "title": "Centre for Digital Media", "text": "Centre for Digital Media\n\nThe Centre for Digital Media (CDM) is a multidisciplinary graduate institution based in Vancouver, British Columbia. It offers a Master of Digital Media (MDM) program accredited by its four partner institutions, the University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University, Emily Carr University of Art + Design and the British Columbia Institute of Technology.\n\nThe Master of Digital Media (MDM) program is the first jointly credentialed academic program offered at the Centre for Digital Media on the Great Northern Way Campus. It is the first professional graduate program in digital media to be offered in Canada.<ref name=\"http://thecdm.ca/\">Centre for Digital Media Website | Master of Digital Media</ref>\n\nThis full-time graduate degree program was launched in September 2007 with an initial cohort of 21 students. The 5th cohort of students graduated in September 2012, bringing the total number of graduates to date to 131. Approximately 60% of the graduates have been international students.\n\nThe 16-month MDM program is accredited by all four GNWC partners, and the certificates earned upon graduation bear the seals of The University of British Columbia, The British Columbia Institute of Technology, Emily Carr University of Art + Design, and Simon Fraser University.\n\nThe Master of Digital Media (MDM) program was designed and established to develop work-ready, professional talent for Vancouver's digital media industry. The curriculum, facilities and structure of the courses were developed with input from industry partners throughout Vancouver's digital media sector, such as Electronic Arts, Microsoft, Disney Interactive Studios, Annex Pro, Autodesk, Zynga, Relic Entertainment, Rainmaker Entertainment Inc., Nokia, Microsoft, IBM Canada, GRAND NCE, Clark Wilson LLP, Blast Radius. The goal of the curriculum is to produce graduates with a flexible repertoire of skills, rather than a single specialization.\n\nThe curriculum includes a combination of supervised project coursework for the first 12 months and internships for the final four months. Students work in interdisciplinary groups with both faculty members and industry professionals. Courses include Foundations of Digital Media, Foundations of Game Design, The Visual Story, and 'Projects' courses of increasing scope and complexity. Professionals from Vancouver's digital media industry serve as guest speakers and mentors, and industry partners offer internships, scholarships, and practical project opportunities for students.\nThe program is backed by a 2006 grant of CAD$40.5 million from the Province of British Columbia and by a 2007 commitment of CAD$1 million from the US computer game firm Electronic Arts. It also charges students $10,000 per semester ($15,000 for non-Canadians). Justifying this expense, the Trusts's first CEO, Bruce Clayman, described it as \"premium tuition for a premium program.\" To defray such costs, the Centre for Digital Media offers student scholarships valued at $5000 and $10,000 each, as well as a variety of awards that grant students rent-free accommodations on the Great Northern Way Campus.\n\nThe program won some media attention in 2007 for using the Second Life virtual world as a recruiting tool, as well as for class activities, open houses and other live streamed events on their virtual campus.\n\nThe MDM program is housed in the Centre for Digital Media, a multimedia facility located in a former office building. As of September 20, 2012, the program will move into the New Centre for Digital Media building to be known as CDM 685 after its 685 Great Northern Way address. In addition to 76 student housing units, this 49,000 square foot building includes a 10,000-square-foot (930 m2) filming area and green screen, editing and filmmaking labs, and classrooms equipped with \"full Dolby 5.1 capabilities, high-end wall projectors, Blu-ray playback.\"\n\nIndustry projects are the key component of the Master of Digital Media program. Students work in project teams to create products for industry partners and must stay within the time, resource and management constraints that characterize professional work schedules in the digital media industry. The team must both prototype and produce a tangible result.\n\nDuring Projects courses, teams of three to six students work on a focused project (or several, smaller related projects) during that semester. The primary objective of the courses is to provide a hands-on working experience with teammates who are from different backgrounds and disciplines, as well as familiarize students with industry expectations and prepare them for careers in the digital media sector by immersing them in real-world, team-based scenarios.\n\nEach team must comprise students from both technological and non-technological backgrounds. During the course of the project, students having an engineering or other technical background are expected to make an aesthetic contribution to the project and students having an artistic grounding are expected to make a technical contribution to the project. The work must be overseen by a faculty member approved by the MDM program for this project.\n\nStudents also have the opportunity to pitch their own ideas for projects, mimicking the early stages of managing their own startups.\n\nDirector: Richard Smith\n\nFounding faculty\n\nFull-time faculty\n\nThe Master of Digital Media (MDM) program was designed with input from industry partners throughout Vancouver's digital media sector. These industry partners continue to collaborate with the Centre for Digital Media by providing internships, sponsorships, collaborative projects and prototype development opportunities for students. Industry partners also connect with students as guest lecturers, mentors, and faculty.\n\nThe Centre for Digital Media allows students to pick client project or pitch project for their third term. Students who opt for pitch project have to form a team of 3-5 members and submit a project proposal for approval by the faculty. Once approved, each pitch project team has to present in front of a panel of faculty, industry leaders and investors. After the presentation, the panel approves teams for pitch project term.\n\nThere are a multiple projects which went on to venture internship period, fourth term, which acts as an incubator space at the Centre for Digital Media. Companies which spun out of CDM include Quupe Technologies Inc, Walkies Lab Inc and Generate App.\n\nThe Centre for Digital Media was designed to cater to the specific needs of digital media students. In addition to 76 on-site student housing units, the CDM features many other amenities:\n\n"}
{"id": "35323469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35323469", "title": "Chris de Souza", "text": "Chris de Souza\n\nChristopher Edward de Souza (born 6 June 1943) is an English composer, teacher, music director, broadcaster, opera producer and author. He has presented programmes on BBC Radio 3, Radio 4 and World Service.\n\nChris de Souza is a graduate in music from Bristol University (1966) and a graduate of the Directors' Course of the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School.\n\nHe has worked in the media as a Theatre director, Radio Music producer and presenter. Head of Music at St Bernadette Catholic Secondary School in Bristol from 1966 to 1970, he went on to become a Producer with Sadlers Wells/English National Opera in 1971. From then on De Souza produced over 100 operas around the world, among which the soundtrack for the fireworks display in the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II.\n\nSince 1966 he wrote and performed several compositions like \"8 Epithalamia for Organ\", \"Maharajahs\", \"The Ides of March\", \"Children of the Light\". In 1977 he devised the Liszt Festival of London editing and directing the first modern performance of Franz Liszt's opera \"Don Sanche\". As a composer his music has been widely broadcast and performed, with recent commissions from the BBC, Southern Sinfonia, West Berkshire Maestros and the Lymington Choral Society.\n\nIn 1975 he joined the BBC Radio London becoming the BBC first Proms Producer in 1987. He presented Radio London's arts programme \"Look Stop Listen\", \"Performance on 3\" (with Humphrey Burton) and \"Discovering Music\" on BBC Radio 3 and Sky Digital. As a presenter his own programme \"Tuning Up\", focusing on young musicians, won a Silver Medal at the New York Radio Festival in 1992. He has also presented on TV, BBC World Service, and broadcasts classical channels for many airlines. For 25 years, he has presented the Classical Channel on Emirates, and most recently presented the opera broadcasts on CNBCTV.\n\nDe Souza is an author of classical music guides like \"Looking at music\", \"Listening to Music\", \"The Kingfisher Young People's Book of Music\", and wrote articles to The Listener, Music and Musicians, Musical Time and other magazines. As narrator he appears in works like Peter and the Wolf and The Carnival of the Animals, of which he performed his own version in the presence of HRH Princess Alexandra. Recent compositions include \"Bottom's Dream\" commissioned for the BBC Singers, a Trombone Concerto commissioned by Southern Sinfonia, and \"Loved and Unloved\" for the Lymington Choral Society.\n\nHe is a music teacher and works with many children's theatre groups. From 1986 to 1999 he was a member of the British Youth Opera. He is also the Artistic Director of Southern Sinfonia in Newbury, a member of the Royal Society of Musicians and of the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors.\n\nDe Souza took over from Ann Wright as conductor of Cranford Choral Society, Wallingford, Oxfordshire in 2015.\n\nDe Souza has adjudicated for the BBC Young Musician of the Year award, the Royal Over-Seas League, and the Newbury Young Musician of the Year and chairs the Parkhouse Award for chamber music. As a record producer, he was nominated at the 2000 Grammy Awards for \"Powder Her Face\".\n\nDe Souza lives in Boxford, Berkshire, with his wife and two sons Tristan and Sebastian de Souza. Two of his cousins are Simon de Souza and actor Edward de Souza. He is of part Portuguese Indian descent through a grandfather.\n\n"}
{"id": "56931427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56931427", "title": "Christian Dustmann", "text": "Christian Dustmann\n\nChristian Dustmann, FBA, is a German economist who currently serves as Professor of Economics at University College London. There, he also works as Director of the Centre for Research and Analysis of Migration (CReAM), which he helped found. Dustmann belongs to the world's foremost labour economists and migration scholars.\n\nDustmann earned a B.Sc. in business economics from the University of Bielefeld in 1983, followed by a M.A. in economics from the University of Georgia (Athens, Georgia) in 1985 and a M.Sc. in business economics from the University of Bielefeld in 1985. Thereafter, Dustmann went on to obtain a Ph.D. in economics from the European University Institute in Florence in 1992 and finally a habilitation in economics and econometrics from the University of Bielefeld in 1997. After his Ph.D., Dustmann briefly worked at the University of Bielefeld as assistant professor of economics (1992–94) but then moved to the University College London in 1994, where he has been working ever since, being promoted from lecturer to reader in 2002 and finally to full professor in 2004. In 2004, Dustmann also founded the Centre for Research and Analysis of Migration, whose director he remains. In parallel, he has held many visiting appointments, including at Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and Yale.\n\nIn terms of professional affiliations and memberships, Dustmann is a research associate of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, Centre for Economic Policy, research fellow of the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR), member of the Council of the Royal Economic Society, elected fellow of the Academia Europaea, National Academy of Sciences Leopoldina, Society of Labor Economists and British Academy. Moreover, in the past, he has served as president of the European Society for Population Economics (ESPE) and of the European Society for Labour Economists (EALE). Besides working as referee for numerous academic journals in economics, Dustmann performs editorial duties for the \"Journal of Labor Economics\" and has done so before for the \"Journal of Population Economics\" and the \"Economic Journal\". In addition to his positions in academia, Dustmann has adivsed the British Home Office, the Institute for Labour Market and Vocational Research (IAB), and the Economic and Social Research Council.\n\nChristian Dustmann's research interests include various topics within labour economics, including migration, inequality and education. Many of Dustmann's contributions to research in these areas are summarized in his edited volume on the economics of education and training (with Bernd Fitzenberger and Stephen Machin), his chapter on migration and education with Albrecht Glitz in the \"Handbook of the Economics of Education\" and in his edited volume on migration. According to IDEAS/RePEc, he ranks among the top 1% most cited economists worldwide.\n\nOne of the most important topics within Dustmann's research on migration concerns return migration (a.k.a. temporary migration). Using SOEP data, Dustmann finds that immigrants' duration of stay in Germany, i.e. whether or not they immigrate permanently, affects the convergence of natives' and immigrants' earnings as permanent immigrants' tend to invest more into country-specific human capital and, under certain circumstances, immigrants with higher ability are more likely to immigrate permanently. As a consequence, Dustmann argues that governments need to clarify as early as possible whether permanent immigration is possible and under which conditions. In further work (partly with Oliver Kirchkamp), Dustmann finds that return migration is affected by the relative volatility of labour markets in host and home countries and migrants' precautionary savings, by their education and the family bounds they have established prior to emigration (for Turkish Guest Workers), by the number and sex of children they have had in the host country, and by the wage differentials between Germany and their home countries. Moreover, he and Kirchkamp observe that the majority of returnees from Germany to Turkey among Turkish Guest Workers remained economically activity, typically as entrepreneurs. With regard to the UK, Dustmann and Yoram Weiss explore how price differentials between the UK and migrants' home countries, migrants' preference to live in their home countries, and better opportunities to accumulate valuable human capital in the UK determine return migration. Moreover, in research with Josep Mestres, Dustmann finds that changes in return plans are related to large changes in immigrants' remittances to their home countries. Finally, along with Itzhak Fadlon, Weiss and Dustmann use a Roy model to explore the effect of return migration and skill-specific human capital accumulation on the brain drain in migrants' home countries, which may instead experience a \"brain gain\" if enough emigrants return after having strongly improved their skills abroad.\n\nA second major area of research in Dustmann's work on migration relates to the effect of immigrants' host country language proficiency. Among else, he finds that fluency in German among immigrants increases in education, is lower for the elderly and women, and is only improved by labour market participation in the case of speaking. He also finds that immigrants' fluency in both speaking and especially writing German is associated with higher earnings. In another study, Dustmann observes that immigrants' acquisition of speaking and writing fluency is mostly driven by their parents' education level, whereas living in areas with high concentrations of immigrants has only a moderately negative effect. Furthermore, migrants' investments into language proficiency are shown to depend on whether migrants' intend to immigrate permanently or temporarily. In work with Arthur van Soest, Dustmann finds that the effect of language proficiency on immigrants' earnings was likely underestimated by earlier studies as the downward bias due to measurement errors in subjective language proficiency dominates the upward bias due to heterogeneity in terms of unobserved ability. Finally, together with Francesca Fabbri, Dustmann documents that language acquisition and labour market performance vary widely across non-white immigrants in the UK based on their ethnic origins and that English proficiency significantly increases immigrants' likelihood of employment and earnings.\n\nTogether with Ian Preston, Dustmann has analysed the attitudes of ethnic majorities towards ethnic minorities. Among else, they find that earlier research in the UK likely overestimated the positive impact of local immigration on natives' attitudes towards immigrants because they omitted the tendency of xenophobic natives to move to locations with few migrants; instead, they find that, if anything, high concentrations of ethnic minorities likely exacerbated xenophobia in England. With David Card, they also find that xenophobic attitudes among European natives are mainly driven by concerns over how changes in the composition of the local population due to immigration may affect amenities from neighbourhoods, schools and workplaces, instead of concerns over wages and taxes, thus explaining why individuals with lower education tend to display more xenophobic attitudes, as they benefit relatively more from these public amenities than highly educated people. This dominance of welfare concerns over labour market concerns is also supported by earlier work on the UK, though racial and cultural prejudice also plays an important role there, if immigrants have a different ethnicity.\n\nA fourth area in Dustmann's research on migration studies the impact of immigration on domestic labour markets. Therein, together with Fabbri and Preston, Dustmann finds that while immigration in Britain \"overall\" doesn't appear to have an effect on British natives' employment, labour force participation, unemployment, and wages, immigration in fact likely decreased the employment of medium-skilled natives and increased that of high-skilled natives. In further work with Albrecht Glitz and Tommaso Frattini, Dustmann studies how European countries' labour markets adjusted to recent immigration through changes in factor prices, output mix and production technology. This research is further complemented by work with Glitz, Yann Algan and Alan Manning that compares the performance of first- and second-generation immigrants in France, Germany and the UK in terms of education, earnings and employment, as well as by research with Frattini and Gianandrea Lanzara which shows that even though second-generation immigrants tend to perform worse than natives in terms of education, immigration has a strongly positive on their education relative to that of their peers in their home country. More recently, Dustmann, Frattini and Caroline Halls have also analyzed the fiscal effects of immigration in the UK, finding that European immigrants in general and especially immigrants from post-2004 EU Member States have made consistently positive contributions to the UK's public finances between 1995 and 2011, though the opposite holds true for non-EEA immigrants, in particular before 2000. Finally, together with Frattini and Preston, Dustmann finds that immigrants' move to the UK generally results in a considerable downgrade of their position within the wage distribution, which then in turns depresses slightly wages among the bottom fifth of native workers but increases wages for the upper half.\n\nIn parallel to his research on the economics of migration, Dustmann has also performed influential research on various other topics in labour economics, including wages, job benefits, education, and structural change:\n\n"}
{"id": "52718645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52718645", "title": "Coding House", "text": "Coding House\n\nCoding House was a coding bootcamp in Silicon Valley, California. The 14-week-long bootcamp taught students JavaScript and other technologies. Founded in 2014 by Nicholas James, it was ordered shut down in November 2016 by the regulatory agency California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE) for violating California law many times. BPPE denied Coding House's licensing application three times and found that Coding House had engaged in false advertising.\n\nCoding House was founded in 2014 by Nicholas James. Based in Silicon Valley, California, the bootcamp operated in two places in Fremont, California and then in a place in Pleasanton, California. Coding House held 14-week-long bootcamps in which students would live on campus while learning the curriculum. The bootcamp cost $6,000 for the live-in costs and 18% of the graduate's initial year of salary. It focused on teaching students JavaScript and other technologies. In 2014, online lending marketplace Upstart offered loans for students attending bootcamps like Coding House.\n\nIn September 2016, Coding House mandated that students sign non-disparagement contracts disallowing them from either publicly or privately criticizing the school. If Coding House determined that students had originated damaging information about it, Coding House vowed to take action against the students.\n\nThe California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE), which is tasked with regulating California coding schools, declined to add Coding House to its list of approved programs. It first warned Coding House in a cease and desist in January 2014 that it was unlicensed to operate as a coding bootcamp. BPPE rejected Coding House's applications in November 2015, in June 2016, and on November 4, 2016. On November 7, 2016, the BPPE levied a $50,000 fine on Coding House founder Nicholas James and mandated that James close the school. BPPE further decreed that Coding House reimburse every single student who had enrolled in the school. Coding House filed an appeal but discontinued classes in the meantime.\n\nBPPE shut the school down because it found Coding House had committed many contraventions of California law. BPPE determined that Coding House had engaged in false advertising. Coding House said on its website that 95% of its alumni received employment by two months after completing the curriculum and that their average starting salary was $91,000. However, BPPE found that just 57 of Coding House's 70 graduates had provided details about their jobs and salaries. The school had 21 companies in a \"Where Our Graduates Work Now\" part of its website. However, BPPE determined from an analysis of Coding House's records that just two alumni had been hired by either of the 21 companies. BPPE ruled that Coding House contravened home-occupation permit rules by functioning in residential neighborhoods. BPPE additionally found that at Coding House a male student had sexually assaulted a female student while people were drinking alcohol.\n\n"}
{"id": "56975991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56975991", "title": "Conflicts of interest in academic publishing", "text": "Conflicts of interest in academic publishing\n\nConflicts of interest (COIs) often arise in academic publishing. Such conflicts may or may not cause wrongdoing, but make it more likely. Academic publishing has some ethical standards in place for avoiding and handling conflicts of interest, and is continuing to develop new standards. Standards vary between journals and are unevenly applied. According to the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors, \"Authors have a responsibility to evaluate the integrity, history, practices and reputation of the journals to which they submit manuscripts.\"\n\nConflicts of interest make research bias more likely. Both disclosed and undisclosed conflicts of interest can harm research quality and the public good. Conflicts of interest can involve research sponsors, authors, journals, journal staff, publishers, and peer reviewers.\n\nAvoiding conflicts of interest, and changing the structure of institutions to make them easier to avoid, are frequently advocated. Some institutional ethics policies ban academics from entering into specific types of COIs, for instance by prohibiting them from accepting gifts from companies connected to their work. Education in ethical COI management is also a tool for avoiding COIs.\n\nDisclosure of conflicts of interest has been debated since the 1980s; there is a general consensus favouring disclosure. However, there is also a view that COI concerns and some measures to reduce them are excessive.\n\nCriticisms of disclosure policies include:\n\nWhile disclosure is widely favoured, other COI management measures have narrower support. Some publications hold that certain COIs disqualify people from certain research roles; for instance that testing medicines should be done only by people who neither develop medicines nor take funding from their manufacturers.\n\nConflicts of interest have also been considered as a statistical factor confounding evidence, which must therefore be measured as accurately as possible and analysed, requiring machine-readable disclosure.\n\nJournals have individual ethics policies and codes of conduct, but there are also some cross-journal voluntary standards.\n\nThe International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) publishes \"Recommendations for the Conduct, Reporting, Editing, and Publication of Scholarly work in Medical Journals\", and a list of journals who pledge to follow it. The guideline lays down detailed rules for conflict-of-interest declaration by authors. It also says: \"All participants in the peer-review and publication process — not only authors but also peer reviewers, editors, and editorial board members of journals — must consider their conflicts of interest when fulfilling their roles in the process of article review and publication and must disclose all relationships that could be viewed as potential conflicts of interest.\" The Recommendations have been criticised and revised to remove loopholes allowing the non-disclosure of conflicts of interest.\n\nThe Council of Science Editors publishes a White Paper on publication ethics. Citing the ICMJE that \"all participants in the peer-review and publication process must disclose all relationships that could be viewed as potential conflicts of interest\", it highly recommends COI disclosure for sponsors, authors, reviewers, journals, and editorial staff.\n\nThe Good Publication Practice (GPP) guidelines, covering industry-sponsored medical research only, are published by the International Society of Medical Publication Professionals.\n\nThe Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) publishes a code of conduct, stating that \"There must be clear definitions of conflicts of interest and processes for handling conflicts of interest of authors, reviewers, editors, journals and publishers, whether identified before or after publication\"\n\nThe Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association's \"Principles of Transparency and Best Practice in Scholarly Publishing\" is intended to separate legitimate journals from predatory publishers, and lays out a minimal standard: clear COI policies, clearly stated.\n\nA 2009 US Institute of Medicine report on medical COIs states that conflict of interest policies should be judged on their proportionality, transparency, accountability, and fairness; they should be effective, efficient, and targeted, known and understood, clearly identify who is responsible for monitoring, enforcement, and amendment, and apply equally to everyone involved. Review by conflict-of-interest committees is also recommended, and the lack of transparency and COI declaration in developing COI guidelines criticized.\n\nJournal COI policies often have no enforcement provisions, as of 2015. COI disclosure obligations have been legislated, such as in the US Physician Payments Sunshine Act, but not specifically for journals.\n\nThese are institutional COIs. They cannot, therefore, be altered simply by replacing the people facing them.\n\nJournals are often not transparent about their institutional COIs, and apply stricter disclosure standards to authors than to themselves. Four out of six major general medical journals contacted for a 2010 COI study refused to provide information on the proportion of their income from advertisements, reprints, and industry-supported supplements, citing policies on non-disclosure of financial information.\n\nJournals are more likely to accept papers by authors who work at the journals' hosting institutions. This may be due to conflicts with social interests or institutional loyalties. The owner of an academic journal has ultimate power over hiring and firing of editorial staff; editors' interests in pleasing their employers conflict with some of their other editorial interests.\n\nSome journals are owned by publishers. When journals run book reviews of books published by their own publisher, they rarely (as of 2003) add COI disclosures. The publisher's legal obligations to maximize profit conflict with any interests behind profit-lowering decisions. In the case of closed-access publications, the publisher's desire for high subscription income may conflict with an editorial desire for broader access and readership. There have been multiple mass resignations of editorial boards over such conflicts, often followed by the editorial board founding a new nonprofit journal to compete with their former one (examples).\n\nSome journals are owned by academic societies and professional organisations. Leading journals can be very profitable, and there is often friction between the journal and the member society that owns it over revenue. Some academic societies and professional organizations are themselves funded by membership fees and/or donations. If the owners benefit financially from donations, the journal has a conflict between its financial interest in satisfying the donors, and therefore the owners, and its journalistic interests. Such COIs with industry donors have drawn criticism.\n\nA reprint is a copy of an individual article, printed and sold as a separate product by the journal (or its publisher or agent). Reprints are often used in pharmaceutical marketing and other medical marketing of products to doctors. This gives journals an incentive to produce good marketing material. Journals sell reprints at high very profit margins, often around 70%, as of 2010. A journal may sell a million dollars' worth of reprints of a single article, if, say, it is a large industry-funded clinical trial. It is thus unsurprising that selling reprints can bring in over 40% of a journal's total income.\n\nThe impact factor of a journal is often used to rate the journal, although this practice is widely criticized. A journal will generally want to increase its impact factor, in hope of more subscriptions, better submissions, and more prestige. As of 2010, industry-funded papers generally get cited more than others, likely partly due to industry-paid publicity.\n\nIf a journal is accused of managing COIs badly, its reputation is harmed.\n\nMany academic journals contain advertising. The proportion of a journal's revenue coming from advertising varies widely, according to one small study from over 50% to 1%. As of 2010, advertising revenues are generally falling for academic journals. A 1995 survey of North American journal editors found that 57% felt responsible for the honesty of the pharmaceutical ads they ran, and 40% supported peer-review of such ads. An interest in increasing ad revenue can, therefore, conflict with interests in journalistic independence and truthfullness.\n\nAs of 2002, some journals publish supplements, which often either cover an industry-funded conference or are \"symposia\" on a given topic. These supplements are often subsidized by an external sponsor with a financial interest in the outcome of research in that field (for instance, a drug manufacturer or food industry group). Such supplements can have guest editors, are often not peer-reviewed to the same standard as the journal itself, and are more likely to use promotional language. Many journals do not publish sponsored supplements. Small-circulation journals are more likely to publish supplements than large, high-prestige journals. Indications that an article was published in a supplement may be fairly subtle; for instance, a letter \"s\" added to a page number.\n\nThe ICMJE code of conduct specifically addresses guest-editor COIs: \"Editors should publish regular disclosure statements about potential conflicts of interests related to their own commitments and those of their journal staff. Guest editors should follow these same procedures.\" It also states that the usual journal editor must maintain full control and responsibility, and \"Editing by the funding organization should not be permitted.\"\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration states that supplement articles should not be used as medical-marketing reprints, but as of 2009, had no legal authority to prohibit the practice.\n\nPublishers may not be strongly motivated to ensure the quality of their journals. In the \"Australasian Journal of Bone & Joint Medicine\" case, the printer Elsevier Australia put out six journal-like publications containing articles about drugs made by the Merck Group, which paid for and controlled the publications.\n\nPersonal conflicts of interest faced by journal staff are individual, and if a person leaves the journal, their personal COIs will go with them (unlike the COIs of journals as institutions).\n\nCOIs of journal staff are less commonly reported than those of authors, as of 2015. For instance, one 2009 World Association of Medical Editors (WAME) policy document states that \"Some journals list editors’ competing interests on their website but this is not a standard practice.\" However, the ICMJE requires that the COIs of editors and journal staff be regularly declared and published.\n\nOne 2017 Open Payments study of influential US medical journals found that half of the editors received payments from industry; another, using a different sample of editors, made it two-thirds. As of 2002, there is often not a system for reporting wrongdoing by editors.\n\nMany journals have policies on what COIs staff can enter into; for instance, accepting gifts of travel, accommodation, or hospitality may be prohibited. Such policies are rarely published as of 2006. Most journals do not offer COI training, and many report wanting better guidance on COI policy, as of 2015.\n\nThe ICJME recommendations require peer reviewers to disclose conflicts of interest. Half to two-thirds of journals (depending on subject area) did not follow this recommendation in the first two decades of the 21st century. As of 2017, if a peer reviewer fail to disclose a conflict of interest, the paper will generally not be withdrawn, corrected, or re-reviewed, but the reviews may be reassessed.\n\nIf peer reviewers are anonymous, their COIs cannot be published. Some experiments with publishing the names of reviewers have been undertaken; in others, the identities of reviewers were disclosed to authors, allowing authors to identify COIs. Some journals now have an open review process, in which everything, including the peer reviews and the names of the reviewers, and editor and author comment, is published transparently online.\n\nThe duties of peer review may conflict with social interests or institutional loyalties. To avoid such COIs, reviewers may be excluded if they have some forms of COI, such as having collaborated with the author.\n\nAuthors of individual papers may face conflicts with their duty as an author to report truthfully and impartially. Financial, career, political, and social interests are all sources of conflict. Authors' institutional interests become sources of conflict when the research might harm the institution's finances, or offend the author's superiors.\n\nMany journals require authors to self-declare their conflicts of interest when submitting a paper; they also ask specific questions about conflicts of interest. The questions vary substantially between journals. However, author declarations are rarely verified by the journal. As of 2018, \"most editors say it’s not their job to make sure authors reveal financial conflicts, and there are no repercussions for those who don’t\". Even if a conflict of interest is reported by a reader after publication, COPE does not suggest independent investigation, as of 2017.\n\nAs a result, as of 2018, authors with conflicts of interest often simply do not declare them. Rates of nondisclosure vary widely in reported studies.\n\nThe COPE retraction guidelines state that \"Retractions are also used to alert readers to... failure to disclose a major competing interest likely to influence interpretations or recommendations\" However, as of 2018, if an author fails to disclose a COI, the paper will usually be corrected; it will usually not be retracted. However, paper retractions, notifications to superiors, and publication bans are possible. Non-disclosure incidents harm academic careers. Authors are held to have collective responsibility for the contents of an article; if one author fails to declare a conflict of interest, the peer review process may be deemed compromised, and the whole paper retracted.\n\nPublic registries of author COIs have been suggested. Authors face administrative burdens in declaring COIs; standardized declarations or a registry could reduce these.\n\nGhost authorship, where a writer contributes but is not credited, has been estimated to affect a significant proportion of the research literature. Honorary authorship, where an author is credited but did not contribute, is more common. Appearing as an author on many papers is good for an academic's career. Failure to adhere to authorship standards is rarely punished. To avoid misreported authorship, requiring that all authors described the contribution they made to the study (\"movie-style credits\") has been advocated.\n\nThe ICMJE criteria for authorship require that authors contribute.\n\nThe ICMJE requires that \"All those designated as authors should meet all four criteria for authorship, and all who meet the four criteria should be identified as authors. Those who do not meet all four criteria should be acknowledged\". Academics who have had publication ethics training and those who are aware of the ICMJE authorship criteria are more stringent in their concepts of authorship, and more likely to consider breaches of authorship as misconduct, as are more junior researchers. Awareness is low; one study found that only about half of researchers had read the ICJME criteria.\n\nGhostwriters may be legally liable for fraud.\n\nIf a study requires outside funding, this can be a major source of conflicting interests; for instance, if the manufacturer of a drug is funding a study into its safety and efficacy, or the sponsor hopes to use the research to defend itself in litigation. Sponsors of a study may involve themselves in the design, execution, analysis, and write-up of a study. In extreme cases, they may carry out the research and ghostwrite the article with almost no involvement from the nominal author. Movie-style credits are advocated as a way to avoid this. \n\nThere are many opportunities for bias in trial design as well as trial reporting. For instance, a trial that compares a drug against the wrong dose of a competing drug, may produce spuriously positive results.\n\nIn some cases, a contract with a sponsor may mean that those named as investigators and authors on the papers may not have access to the trial data, or control over the publication text, or the freedom to talk about their work. While authors and institutions have an interest in avoiding such contracts, it conflicts with their interest in competing for funding from potential study sponsors. Institutions which set stricter ethical standards for sponsor contracts lose contracts, and funding, when sponsors go elsewhere.\n\nSponsors have required contractual promises that the study not be reported without the sponsor's approval (gag clauses), and sued authors over compliance. Trials may go unpublished to keep commercial information secret, or because the trial results were unfavourable. Some journals require that human trials be pre-registered in order to be considered for publication; some require that any gag clause be declared as a conflict of interest; since 2001, some also require a statement that the authors have not agreed to a gag clause. Some journals require a promise to provide access to the original data to researchers intending to replicate the work. Some research ethics boards, universities, and national laws prohibit gag clauses. Gag clauses may not be legally enforceable if compliance would cause sufficient public harm. Non-publication has been found to be more common in industry-funded trials, contributing to publication bias.\n\nIt has been suggested that having many different sponsors with different interests protects against COI-induced bias. As of 2006, there was no evidence for or against this hypothesis.\n\nThere is evidence that industry funding of studies of medical devices and drugs results in these studies having more positive conclusions regarding efficacy (funding bias). A similar relationship has been found in clinical trials of surgical interventions, where industry funding leads to researchers exaggerating the positive nature of their findings. Not all studies have found a statistically significant relationship between industry funding and study outcome.\n\nChronically ill medical research participants report expecting to be told about COIs, and some report that they would not participate if the researcher had some sorts of COIs. Multiple ethical guidelines forbid researchers with a financial interest in the outcome from being involved in human trials, with few exceptions.\n\nThe consent agreements entered into with study participants may be legally binding on the academics, but not on the sponsor, unless the sponsor has a contractual commitment saying otherwise.\n\nEthical rules, including the Declaration of Helsinki, require that the results of human trials be published, and human trial participants are often motivated by a desire to improve medical knowledge. Patients may also be harmed if safety data, such risks to patients, are kept secret. Duties to human-research participants, therefore, can conflict with interests in nonpublication (such as gag clauses, detailed above).\n\nSome journals place COI declarations at the beginning of an article, but most put it at the end in smaller print. Positioning makes a difference; if a reader feels that they are being manipulated from the beginning of a text, they read more critically than if the same feeling is produced at the end of a text.\n\nThe ICMJE says only that \"each journal should develop standards with regard to the form the [COI] information should take and where it will be posted\". It is often placed after the body of the article, just before the reference section. Some COI statements, like the COI statements of anonymous reviewers, may not be published at all. COI statements are sometimes paywalled, so that they are only visible to those who have paid for full text access.\n\nIn 2017 PubMed began including COI statements at the end of the abstract, before the body of the article, after complaints that, as COI declarations were only included in full article texts, they often went unseen for paywalled articles. Only COI statements that are appropriately formatted and tagged by the publisher themselves are included.\n\nScience journalism rarely reports COI information from the academic article reported upon (in some studies, fewer than 1% of stories reported COI information).\n\nFailing to disclose a conflict of interest may, depending on the circumstances, be considered a form of corruption or academic misconduct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2979359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979359", "title": "Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange", "text": "Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange\n\nThe Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange (CBYX, German name: \"Parlamentarisches Patenschafts-Programm\" or \"PPP\") is a youth student exchange program founded in 1983. The program, which is jointly sponsored by the United States Congress and the German Bundestag, funds exchange programs for German and American students through grants to private exchange organizations in both countries. The funding in the United States is administered by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the United States Department of State\n\nThe program was established to celebrate the 300th anniversary of German settlement in North America and has been renewed by both legislative bodies since its inception. Over 23,000 German and American students have completed their exchange through the program, which provides a full exchange year complete with orientation and language programs and travel opportunities within Germany and the United States. The exchange year culminates in a conference in Washington, D.C. in which German and American students reflect on their exchange year and share their experiences.\n\nThe scholarship program is merit-based and is funded based on congressional district for Americans and Bundesland for Germans. It consists of a High School program (currently administered by six organizations in the United States: AFS, ASSE, AYUSA, CIEE, FLAG, and YFU), a Young Professionals program (administered exclusively by Cultural Vistas) and a Vocational Student program (administered by Nacel Open Door).\n\nThe largest portion of the scholarship program has been the high school scholarships. Originally the program was only open to high school sophomores and juniors, who would spend their scholarship year in Germany, during what would be their junior or senior year in high school. Currently the program makes 250-280 (the number fluctuates, depending on funding) national scholarships available to any high school student between the ages of 15-18, with a 3.0 or higher GPA on a 4.0 scale, and who is a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident. Applications are due in December of the year prior to the scholarship year. After receipt of a full application, select students will be offered an interview, conducted by selection committees in various locations in the United States. These selection committees then put forward the names of the best candidates to receive the scholarships, which are usually approved by the administering organizations.\n\nThe following organizations administer the high school program by region:\n\nEach program in the United States has a sister program in Germany, the main counterpart being Through CBYX's first decade and a half, Youth For Understanding (YFU) had been the primary administrative organization for the program. YFU's organization administration of the CBYX program ended after the dissolution of the United States Information Agency (USIA) in late 1999. The USIA had overseen the program on behalf of the U.S. Federal Government. In 2008, YFU again became a primary administrative organization for the grant.\n\nAmerican students who receive the scholarship usually spend 11 months in Germany. The first few weeks of the program are taken up by an Orientation and Language Seminar. The remaining ten months of the program usually see the students spread out over Germany, staying with a host family. They attend a Gymnasium, the German equivalent of high school, for an academic year. Other seminars take place over the course of the year, including a trip to the capital in Berlin, where the scholars speak, in German, to the German Bundestag.\n\nThe admission rate in Germany to this Program is very low, since the Program is seen as the most prestigious scholarships that High School Students can earn. In recent years, the admission rate to the program was less than two percent. The scholarship is earned in competition process.\n\nThis scholarship exchange is dedicated to young professionals between the ages of 18 and 24 who have clear career goals and some relevant work experience in their career field, as well as an openness to cultural exchange. Currently 75 young Germans and 75 young Americans participate in the exchange, living in all 16 German Bundesländer and 39 US states. The program is designed primarily for young Americans in business, technical, engineering, agricultural and vocational fields, while German participants have all completed an Ausbildung (practical training) in their field. Cultural Vistas administers the program in the United States and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Beziehungen(GIZ) GmbH administers the program in Germany.\n\nAmerican applicants for the Young Professionals portion must be between the ages of 18 and 24 at the start of the program, must be US citizens or permanent residents, must have work and academic experience in their field, must have a strong sense of American identity and interest in German and international affairs, and must show flexibility and diplomacy. German language skills are not required to participate. Applications are due December 1 of each year, and can be completed online at www.culturalvistas.org/cbyx. After the initial application round, candidates are interviewed at various locations across the U.S. by a team of Cultural Vistas staff, CBYX alumni, host families, German professors, and other program-supporters.\n\nAfter applying for the program, 150 potential candidates are selected to interview in their state of residence; Seventy-five candidates are then selected to participate in the program, which includes: \n\nGerman applicants for the Young Professionals portion must be between the ages of 18 and 23 at the start of the program. Candidates must be in a practical training track and must complete their training (Ausbildung) before the program start date. English skills are required for program participation. Applications are due in September of each year. After an interview with InWent and taking a Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), candidates meet with their elected district representatives (Abgeordneten) for final selection. One hundred candidates are then selected for the program.\n\nThe program starts in the summer for both American and German participants. Americans begin with a two-month language school phase, with the 75 participants divided up into three groups and sent to three different cities usually being Cologne, Saarbrücken or Radolfzell am Bodensee. This two-month phase is followed by a semester at a German university or professional school (Fachhochschule). Some participants may also complete training in the dual-track system (Berufschule). The third phase of the year is a five-month internship with a German company or organization. During the year most participants live with host families, but some stay in shared apartments or dormitories. American participants attend an orientation seminar in Washington, DC, a midyear seminar in Frankfurt, a final seminar in Berlin, and an evaluation seminar in New York.\n\nBefore the German participants arrive in the U.S., their program begins with a week-long preparation seminar in Germany in April. After a four-day orientation seminar in New York City, participants travel to their final placements having short-term home stays along the way. Participants study for one semester at a community or technical college or university in some cases and complete the work phase from January to June. During the year participants live with host families and in some cases dormitories. German participants attend a preparation seminar in Germany, an orientation seminar in New York, a final seminar in Washington, DC, and a wrap-up seminar in Germany in the fall after the program.\n\nThis scholarship program sends graduating American high school seniors aged 18–19 (some with a vocational specializations and some from regular high schools) to Germany for two months of intensive language training followed by ten months of practical training and schooling in their field of interest. The first two months are spent with the group in Bonn, Germany, where the students live with host families and attend a German language school and cultural excursions. The following ten months are spent apart from the exchange group, where students live with host families in various cities or regions of Germany preassigned by the program. Depending on language proficiency and professional fields of interest, the students attend some sort of school (normal high school or other) for up to five months. By February, all the students start internships in their particular field of interest. The students may find their own internships, or can ask for help from their host families and/or area representatives. These selections are based on the location of various area representatives and the availability of specific fields of internships in those locations. Students also participate in two seminars held in Berlin: a mid-term seminar (with fellow vocational program students) and a re-entry seminar (with all fellow CBYX program participants). Prior German language skills are not required. Nacel Open Door recruits and selects participants for this exchange and administers the program.\n\nThe following organizations administer the CBYX/PPP program in Germany:\n\n"}
{"id": "18103154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103154", "title": "Education in Guinea", "text": "Education in Guinea\n\nPrimary education in Guinea is compulsory for 6 years. In 1997, the gross primary enrolment rate was 54.4 percent and the net primary enrolment rate was 41.8 percent.\n\nMrs Diallo Hadja Aicha Bah is a former Education minister in Guinea. in 1996, Hadja Aicha Bah joined UNESCO as Director of the Division for the Basic Education. Mrs Diallo is known as an active leading campaigner for girls and women education. \n\n"}
{"id": "7927720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7927720", "title": "Education in Guyana", "text": "Education in Guyana\n\nEducation in Guyana is provided largely by the government of Guyana, through the Ministry of Education and its arms in the ten different regions of the country. Guyana's education system is a legacy from its time as British Guiana, and is similar to that of the other anglophone member states of the Caribbean Community, which are affiliated to the Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC). School curricula, funding, standards and other policies are set by the central government and implemented through the Ministry of Education and related agencies. The Education System is divided into eleven districts, ten of which correspond to the national administrative and geographical regions of the country, while the capital, Georgetown, is treated as a separate education district. With 8.3% of its GDP spent on education, Guyana sits with Cuba, Iceland, Denmark and Botswana as among the few countries with top spending on education.\n\nThe statutory age for beginning compulsory education is five years nine months, and students are required to attend school until age 16. However, children who do not meet the statutory age to begin school are sometimes enrolled early or generally attend some kind of pre-school. To meet the requirements for compulsory education students generally attend public schools, but there are a few private schools which offer education at one or all stages of learning; home-schooling is virtually non-existent in Guyana. The academic year usually begins in September and ends in July of the following year and with the exception of President's College students have a five-hour school day.\n\nOutside of the private sector, free education from nursery to university was the norm in Guyana until the mid-1990s. The current provision of education is subsidised from nursery through secondary schools, with students now having to pay for tuition at some tertiary institutions. This development reflected a change from the 1970s when Guyana became a socialist-inspired Cooperative Republic. The country's educational policy in the 1970s was intended to broaden access to education, as before that education beyond primary school was expensive and designed primarily for a small elite. In the 1970s single-sex schools were made co-educational; private and parochial schools were incorporated into the public system.\n\nThe reform which occurred was part of a wider phenomenon in a post-colonial CARICOM aiming to provide an education that reflected\nthe full heritage and aspirations of independent states. Today, as part of its obligations to the CXC, Guyana's educational specifications and\nassessment procedures are bound by regional guidelines. Students wear uniforms to school.\n\nGuyana has a reading literacy rate at 92% of the population over age 15. Despite this high level of reading literacy, significant portions of the Guyanese population\nhave functional literacy difficulties resulting in a lack of employability and other socio-economic disadvantages; this has caused government and charitable agencies to push education as a tool in poverty reduction.\n\nGuyana is one of the highest ranked developing countries in the Education Index of the United Nations Human Development Report.\nWith a score of 0.943 on the Education Index, its overall rank is 37, but ranks third in the Caribbean after Cuba and Barbados, and second in South America after Argentina. According to DFID, Guyana has achieved the Millennium Development Goal of universal primary education but continues to struggle with the provision of increased access to satisfactory secondary education. As one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, instruction in Guyana's schools makes little or no use of instructional technologies such as interactive whiteboards or other multimedia tools. Indeed, many schools are short on basic resources, especially in the areas of science and technology, and this sometimes puts students at a disadvantage when compared to their counterparts in the region.\n\nAs part of a continuous effort to tackle inequalities and inefficiencies in the system, the parliament of Guyana has been debating and redrafting the 2007 Education bill. The bill moves Guyana closer to a comprehensive education system, but retains the use of corporal punishment as a disciplinary measure, despite Guyana's obligations to international conventions such as the UN Rights of the Child.\n\nNursery education in Guyana is not compulsory, though most children attend them. Nursery or kindergarten schools, sometimes referred to\nas play schools are provided by the government as well as private entities. It is essentially a formalised extension of early childhood education and is available to children who are age 3 years 9 months at the end of the first term of the school year. The education section of Guyana's National Development Strategy (NDS), chapter 18, further indicates that the nursery education programme is a two-year programme which focuses on child development.\n\nThe introduction of a national nursery education programme occurred in 1976 as part of larger education reforms in the country. The programme is delivered in specially designed nursery schools or in primary schools. Some nursery schools function as feeder programmes for primary schools which are seen as high achievers - gaining entrance into those schools inevitably becomes competitive and sometimes exclusive.\n\nNursery schools in Guyana since the 1980s have faced serious challenges such as adequate numbers of trained teachers as well as adequate facilities. However, as early childhood education takes on a higher level of importance in development and poverty eradication, efforts are afoot to address those challenges. UNICEF is one body that is involved in addressing nursery education challenges as it is a major funder of initiatives which further childhood development in Guyana and elsewhere.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory and requires attendance for six years. Over the last five years education in Guyana has been undergoing continuous reform. The six-year programme is no longer organised as \"Preparatory A and B, and Standards 1 to 4\" - it is now Grades 1 to 6. Part of this reform has meant that the Secondary School Entrance Education (SSEE) 11+ or common entrance exam is no longer used to award places in secondary schools, instead primary school students now take the Grade Six (Level 6) assessment to gain a secondary school place. One of the objectives of this reform is to tackle the problem of overcrowding at oversubscribed schools.\n\nThere are essentially three types of primary schools: the first and most common one is the primary school which provides a typical primary education - from Grades 1 to 6, then there is the primary school which has a primary and a secondary department, and the primary school which has a nursery and secondary department.\n\nThe curriculum of primary schools in Guyana is designed to impart basic literacy and numeracy skills, and also aims to prepare students for secondary education. This literacy and numeracy training is complemented with lessons in Social Studies and Integrated Science. Though Guyana is considered to have met its Millennium Development Goal for universal primary education, the challenge for primary education remains equity of access in terms of curriculum delivery, quality and relevance. Equity of access is a problem largely as a result of how the primary education system is structured, as well as uneven resource availability based on geography - that is, schools on Guyana's coasts and in urban areas tend to be better resourced than schools in the hinterland or in rural areas.\n\nSecondary schooling in Guyana is tiered. There are senior secondary schools, which tend to be more academic in orientation, junior secondary schools, Community High Schools and Secondary Departments of Primary Schools. Since the current reforms are phased, students who perform well in their primary school assessments are awarded places at top schools such as Bishops' High School, St. Stanislaus College,St.Joseph High School, St. Rose's High School, President's College and Queen's College rather than a school in their geographic catchment area.\n\nFor the most part, the curriculum offered in secondary schools is that of the CXC geared towards preparing students to leave secondary school with subject passes at the Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC) or the Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE). CSEC is equivalent to the UK's General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) and CAPE to A-levels. The senior and junior secondary schools prepare students for the CSEC and CAPE qualifications, but the Community High Schools and secondary departments prepare students for the Secondary Schools Proficiency Examination (SSPE); students who do well on this exam may transfer to senior or junior secondary schools. Students attending senior or junior secondary schools attend from Grade 7 to Grade 11 for CSEC and move on to Grade 12 if interested in the CAPE qualification. Community High and students in secondary departments of primary schools, attend from Grade 7 to Grade 10. GCSE and A-level examinations are still offered in some schools but they are expected to be phased out as part of the educational reforms system.\n\nSince the 1990s Guyana has seen the return of faith schools, primarily in the secondary sector. There is one International School - the Georgetown International School. The other private schools recognised by the Ministry of Education are: ISA Islamic School (Muslim), Mae's School, The New Guyana School, The School of the Nations (Bahai) and Marian's Academy (Roman Catholic). These private schools have become highly desirable as they are seen to offer a better quality of education compared to public schools.\n\nIn most cases, students are considered to have had a good secondary education after obtaining a minimum of five CSEC subjects at the CXC; depending on their career interests, students may spend a further two years in secondary school for CAPE offerings or proceed directly to further or higher education courses. Though the CSEC subjects are normally taken in Grade Eleven and the CAPE subjects in Grades Twelve and Thirteen, students may take them earlier if so prepared. Students are required to take a foreign language in some schools, but outside of core subjects, the curriculum generally allows students to focus on their interests. The International Baccalaureate IB programme is not available in Guyana, but parents and students interested in the Advanced Placement AP programme can pursue it at the Georgetown International School.\n\nAnna Regina Multilateral school and President's College are Guyana's only boarding schools; both of them are co-educational public schools.\n\nStudents with disabilities or special needs are educated in schools specially designed for them. They follow the national curriculum,\nbut this is supplemented or adapted where required. As in some places, there is still a stigma associated with attending a special school,\nas a result some parents avoid enrolling their children. Apart from that, there isn't a society-wide consciousness or campaign for improving facilities for disabled students. Some schools are partnered with mainstream schools as in the case of President's College and the David Rose School;\nin this partnership President's College students raise funds and provide other forms of support for the students of the David Rose School. Some special schools cater for the emotionally and socially deprived as well as students who have disabilities such as visual or auditory impairment.\n\nThere are about ten technical/vocational schools across the country which are post-secondary in nature. Among the more prominent technical/vocational schools are the Government Technical Institute (GTI), Guyana Industrial Training Centre (GTIC), Carnegie School of Home Economics, Guyana School of Agriculture (GSA), New Amsterdam Technical Institute (NATI) and the Linden Technical Institute. Private entities such as the Guyana Sugar Corporation and the Private Aircraft Owners Association also provide technical education.\n\nThis sector includes teacher training colleges, advanced technical schools and the university.\n\nThe Cyril Potter College of Education (CPCE), the Schools of Nursing (Georgetown, New Amsterdam), Critchlow Labour College and Kuru Kuru Cooperative College are the principal colleges in Guyana.\n\nCPCE\n\nCyril Potter College of Education (CPCE) was established by law in the 19th Century to train primary school teachers; today, its main campus is at Turkeyen, Greater Georgetown with centres at New Amsterdam and Linden, Rose Hall, Anna Regina, Vreed-en-Hoop and provides two and three-year programmes for nursery, primary and secondary teachers, the programmes are in-service and pre-service.\n\nSchools of Nursing (Georgetown, New Amsterdam)\n\nThese institutions provide basic training for nursing assistants, professional nurses, as well as midwifery.\n\nCritchlow Labour College\n\nThe Critchlow Labour College was established in 1967as the educational arm of the trade Union Movement. It provides pre-university courses in Industrial Relations, business, sociology and a CXC programme for school leavers who need to obtain those qualifications. It has plans to introduce\nassociate degrees but has postponed that initiative because of funding problems.\n\nKuru Kuru Cooperative College\n\nKuru Kuru Cooperative College is accredited by the University of Guyana and the Association of Caribbean Tertiary Institutions. This institution lists\nits main aim as that of providing training on all aspects of cooperative business.\n\nMusic Studies\n\nGuyana is home to many unique music traditions, but despite its importance for cultural heritage, music has tended to receive minimal support in schools. Music studies are offered as part of teacher training at CPCE, and a fledgling National School of Music was opened in 2012.\n\nOther Colleges\n\nApart from these state-owned institutions there are private institutions such as The International University-Guyana which offer training in accountancy, business and computing among other fields.\n\nThe University of Guyana in Guyana is the major university that operates on two campuses, Tain (Berbice) and Turkeyen (Demerara). It was established in 1963 after Guyana expressed its preference for a local university given the costs associated with Guyanese students attending the University of the West Indies (UWI) and other universities.\n\nIt provides a professional education in many areas, but students who want to pursue training in fields such as anthropology, astronomy or librarianship must travel abroad or pursue distance studies. Students who cannot afford university tuition fees may take a student loan from the state-run student loans agency. The University of Guyana like the University of the West Indies is an associate member of CARICOM, it is also a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities.\n\nTexila American University (TAU) one of the best Caribbean Medical school is located in Guyana, the only English-speaking country in South America. TAU offers Health Science programs with a high level of professionalism, exactness and problem solving skills, upon which the foundations of specialist training and an independent medical practice can be built, which facilitates further education and development of their knowledge throughout their life.\n\nThe Adult Education Association and, the Institute of Adult and Continuing Education (IDCE), the extramural arm of the University of Guyana fulfil this role along with many other private and government post-secondary institutions. At the moment the government of Guyana is administering a National Fast Track Literacy programme which aims to improve the literacy skills of young people and adults who did not complete formal education.\n\n\nBastick, T. and Ezenne, A. (2003) Researching Change in Caribbean Education: Curriculum, Teaching and Administration. UWI \n\nMiller, E. ed. (1991) Education and Society in the Commonwealth Caribbean. UWI \n\nTsang, M. et al. (2002) Access, Equity and Performance: Education in Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. IDB \n\n"}
{"id": "8900118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8900118", "title": "Emily Schulman", "text": "Emily Schulman\n\nEmily Hope Schulman (born August 17, 1977) is a former child actress and commercial agent, and current acting instructor. She is best known for her role as next-door neighbor Harriet Brindle on the sitcom \"Small Wonder\", which ran from 1985 to 1989.\n\nBy age six, Schulman appeared in over 200 TV commercials. In 1984, she was then cast in the role of Harriet on the pilot for \"Small Wonder\", which ran for four seasons and 96 episodes. Schulman's childhood work, though often later lampooned for its perceived kitsch, received recognition by her contemporaries: she twice won Young Artist Awards and was nominated for the peer honor three other times. Additional television credits include \"Finders Keepers\", \"Hotel\", \"Mr. Belvedere\", \"ALF\" and \"The Wonder Years\". \n\nSchulman also starred in the 1989 films \"Troop Beverly Hills\" and \"Caddie Woodlawn\". Her last acting appearance was on the television series \"Christy\" (with her \"Troop Beverly Hills\" co-star Kellie Martin), in which she played Ruby Mae Morrison.\n\nAt 17, Schulman began a career shift away from the cameras. In 2008, after 13 years as the head of Acme Talent & Literary's Commercial Division, Schulman relocated her department to its current home at Talentworks. Schulman teaches acting in Connecticut.\n\nSchulman married Derek Webster in 2002; the couple have four children.\n"}
{"id": "599351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599351", "title": "Ems Ukaz", "text": "Ems Ukaz\n\nThe Ems Ukaz, or \"Ems Ukase\" (, \"Emskiy ukaz\"; , \"Ems’kyy ukaz\"), was a secret decree (\"ukaz\") of Tsar Alexander II of Russia issued in 1876, banning the use of the Ukrainian language in print, with the exception of reprinting of old documents. The ukaz also forbade the import of Ukrainian publications and the staging of plays or lectures in Ukrainian. It was named after the city of Bad Ems, Germany, where it was promulgated.\n\nIn the 1860s, a decade and a half after the Imperial Russian government had broken up the Brotherhood of Sts Cyril and Methodius in Kiev (March 1847), and exiled or arrested its founder Nikolay Kostomarov and other prominent figures, Ukrainian intellectuals were gaining further awareness of their cultural background. \"Hromada\" cultural associations (named after the traditional village assembly) started in a number of cities, and Sunday schools started in the cities and towns (the Russian Imperial administration had neglected education). The new cultural movement was partly driven by publications in both Russian and Ukrainian, including journals (such as Kostomarov's \"Osnova\", 1861–62, and Hlibov's \"Chernyhosvs’kyy Lystok\", 1861–63), historical and folkloristic monographs (Kostomarov's biography of the Cossack hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky, Kulish's two-volume folklore collection \"Zapiski o Yuzhnoy Rusi\", \"Notes on Southern Rus\"', 1856–57), and elementary primers (Kulish's \"Hramatka\", 1857, 1861, Shevchenko's \"Bukvar Yuzhnoruskiy\", 1861). In \"Osnova\", Kostomarov published his influential article \"Dve russkiye narodnosti\" (\"Two Russian Nationalities\").\n\nAlthough Ukrainianism had been considered popular and somewhat chic in Russian cultural circles, a debate began at the time over its relation to the ideology of Russian Pan-Slavism—epitomized by a quotation of Pushkin: \"will not all the Slavic streams merge into the Russian sea?\"—and a rhetoric of criticism emerged. Conservative Russians called the Ukrainian movement a \"Polish intrigue\", while Polish commentators had been complaining that Ukrainianism had been used as a weapon against Polish culture in right-bank Ukraine.\n\nAfter the 1861 emancipation of the serfs in the Russian Empire, many landowners were unhappy with the loss of their serfs, while peasants were generally displeased with the terms of the emancipation. In this atmosphere of discontent, increasing reports reached the imperial government that Ukrainian leaders were plotting to separate from Russia. The 1863 January Uprising in Poland raised tensions around the issue of ethnic separatism in general even further. Several Ukrainian activists were arrested, Sunday schools and hromadas were closed and their publication activities were suspended.\n\nA new Ukrainian translation by Pylyp Morachevskyi of parts of the New Testament was vetted and passed by the Imperial Academy of Sciences, but rejected by the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox church, because it was considered politically suspect. In response, Interior Minister Count Pyotr Valuyev issued a decree through an internal document circulated to the censors on 18 July 1863, known as Valuyev's Circular. The Circular implemented a policy based on his opinion that \"the Ukrainian language never existed, does not exist, and shall never exist\". It banned the publication of secular and religious books (apart from \"belles-lettres\"), on the premise that not only is the content of such publications potentially questionable, but their very existence implied the anti-imperial idea that a Ukrainian nation could exist.\n\nIn the 1870s, the Kiev Hromada and the South-Western Branch of the Imperial Russian Geographic Society began to publish important works in Kiev, in Russian, about Ukrainian ethnography. Authors included Mykhailo Drahomanov, Volodymyr Antonovych, Ivan Rudchenko, and Pavlo Chubynsky. They held an Archaeological Congress in 1874, and published in the Russian-language paper \"Kievskiy telegraf\".\n\nA member of the Geographic Society, Mikhail Yuzefovich, sent two letters to St Petersburg warning of separatist activity. Tsar Alexander II appointed an Imperial Commission on Ukrainophile Propaganda in the Southern Provinces of Russia, which found evidence of a danger to the state, and recommended extending the scope of the Valuyev decree. While enjoying a spa in Bad Ems, Germany, in May 1876, the Tsar signed what would come to be called the \"Ems Ukaz\", extending the publication ban to apply to all books and song lyrics in the \"Little Russian dialect\", and to prohibit the importation of such materials. Public lectures, plays, and song performances in Ukrainian were forbidden, suspect teachers removed from teaching, and presumably dangerous organizations and newspapers shut down.\n\nThe ukaz coincided with other actions against Ukrainian culture. Drahomanov and fellow activist Mykola Ziber were sacked from their posts at Kiev's University of St Vladimir, and emigrated along with other cultural leaders such as Fedir Vovk and Serhiy Podolynsky. The situation was exposed by professor Mykhailo Drahomanov at the 1878 Paris International Literary Congress.\n\nIn 1881, the new Tsar Alexander III amended the ukaz. Ukrainian lyrics and dictionaries would be allowed, but the \"Kulishivka\" Ukrainian alphabet was still prohibited, and such publications would have to employ Russian orthography (disparagingly called the \"Yaryzhka\" by some Ukrainians, after the Russian letter yery, ы). Performance of Ukrainian plays and humorous songs could be approved by local authorities, but Ukrainian-only theatres and troupes could not be established.\n\nMany illegal performances and publications were delivered through ingenuity and bribery, but Ukrainian cultural development practically ceased.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1905, the Imperial Academy of Sciences recommended that the ukaz's restrictions be lifted. Ukrainian-language newspapers began publication, \"Prosvita\" (‘Enlightenment’) educational societies were formed, some university professors lectured in Ukrainian, and the Orthodox bishop of the Podolia vicariate, Parfeniy Levytsky, allowed the language to be used in services and church schools there.\n\nIn 1910, concerned about potential revolutionary activity, Interior Minister Pyotr Stolypin restored the ukaz's restrictions and shut down the Prosvita societies and Ukrainian-language publications. Russian-language press and intellectuals launched a campaign against the idea of Ukrainian autonomy or separatism.\n\nThus, self-aware Ukrainians remained a small intelligentsia in Dnieper Ukraine, out of touch with a much larger rural population who lacked the opportunity for a cultural education. Russian imperial ideology dominated the schools and the army, and the Russian language was the only one used for official business in the urban workplace, government offices, and public services. In the meantime, Ukrainian self-identity would grow in Austro-Hungarian Galicia, out of reach of Russian imperial authorities.\n\nThe ukaz was never cancelled, but became void along with all other imperial Russian laws in the February Revolution of 1917–18. After the Revolution, Ukrainian language, education and culture was allowed to flower in the Ukrainian National Republic, the Hetmanate, and under the policies of Soviet Ukraine before 1931.\n\nExcerpts from the Ukaz:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18699337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18699337", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering\n\nFellowship of the Royal Academy of Engineering (FREng) is an award and fellowship for engineers who are recognised by the Royal Academy of Engineering as being the \n\nFellows are entitled to use the designatory letters FREng after their name, see .\n\nSee also List of female Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering and List of International Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering.\n"}
{"id": "1641078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1641078", "title": "Florida Student Association", "text": "Florida Student Association\n\nFlorida Student Association, Inc. (FSA) was formed in 1976 under the \"Florida Not For Profit Corporation Act\". FSA represents the interests of students of the State University System of Florida. \n\nA statute enacted by the Government of Florida has created a \"student government\" at each state university. The statute provides that each student government shall have a \"student body president\". FSA's board of directors includes the student body president of each state university student government. FSA's board of directors exercises the corporation's powers and manages its affairs.\n\nFSA coordinates the collective efforts of each of the State University student governments with a goal of providing unified student representation before the Florida Government. FSA holds monthly meetings where student leaders can interact with their peers from other institutions.\n\nSection 7 of Article IX of the Constitution of the State of Florida provides that the state university system of Florida shall be governed by \"a board of governors\". Section 7 also provides that \"the president of the Florida student association\" shall be a member of the board of governors. The FSA president serves as a member of the board of governors without compensation but may be reimbursed for travel and per diem expenses to the extent provided by law.\n\nAn applicant for state student financial aid may appeal the rejection of his or her application. The appeal will be heard by a committee of four members appointed by the Florida Commissioner of Education. A decision rendered by an appeals committee constitutes \"final agency action\".\n\nAn appeals committee is temporary in nature. There might be no appeals committees in existence at a particular time or there might be several appeals committees, with each committee being assigned to evaluate one or more appeals.\n\nFSA is authorized by law to nominate students to serve as members of appeals committees. Each nominee must be enrolled in a public postsecondary institution in Florida.\n\nFSA is authorized by law to \"Adopt, change, amend, and repeal bylaws, not inconsistent with law or its articles of incorporation, for the administration of the affairs of the corporation and the exercise of its corporate powers\". FSA has adopted a bylaw which provides, in part, that \"the activities of the corporation shall include the carrying on of lobbying efforts and otherwise attempting to influence legislation\".\n\nFSA was a driving force in the effort to create the \"Florida Prepaid College Program\". In 1985, FSA asked key Florida legislators to review the State of Michigan's prepaid tuition plan. After reviewing Michigan's plan, Florida State Senator Ileana Ros-Lehtinen sponsored a bill to establish a similar prepaid tuition plan in Florida. With lobbying efforts by student government presidents and David Corry (FSA Executive Director) and Shari Caprara (FSA Legislative Director), the Florida House of Representatives and the Florida Senate both passed the bill. The bill was then signed into law by Florida Governor Bob Martinez. Since that bill became Florida law, more than 1.6 million prepaid college plans have been purchased and nearly 350,000 students have attended college under a prepaid college plan. Most of the plans were purchased by parents and grandparents when their children/grandchildren were toddlers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37977128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37977128", "title": "Franklin Virtual High School", "text": "Franklin Virtual High School\n\nFranklin Virtual High School (or FVHS) is a private online high school located in Tallahassee, Florida. It was established in 2010 and provides its entire academic program online only (virtual campus).\n\nFranklin Virtual High School provides programs and services that are designed for both teenage and adult students. Programs of study, which are offered via distance learning, include a complete high school curriculum.\n\nFVHS is accredited by AdvancED and is registered with the Florida Board of Education School Choice for Private Education database.\n\nProvide quality, flexible, cost-effective education options to help students achieve their personal, educational and career goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "40397970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40397970", "title": "Handbibliothek des allgemeinen und praktischen Wissens", "text": "Handbibliothek des allgemeinen und praktischen Wissens\n\nHandbibliothek des allgemeinen und praktischen Wissens (German for \"Handbook of common and practical knowledge\") is a series of two textbooks for self-education. Edited by Emanuel Müller-Baden, it was first published in Germany in 1920 by Deutsches Verlagshaus Bong & Co.\n\nThe first volume treats the German, French and English languages, and offers courses in handwriting and shorthand. But it also expands on subjects like engine construction and accounting. Volume two consists of lessons on natural science, geography, law and mathematics.\n"}
{"id": "12476990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476990", "title": "Information Technology Professional Examination Council", "text": "Information Technology Professional Examination Council\n\nThe Information Technology Professional Examination Council (ITPEC), is an organization that conducts information technology examinations throughout Asian countries. It was formed to promote information exchange among examination bodies in Asia, and to facilitate such efforts as the development of common examination questions and the administration of the exam on the same date and time. It was established to support international strategies in the spheres of software development and information technology human resources.\n\nIt was established in November 2005 by representatives from the countries that have adopted JITEC-IPA's Examination Skill Standards to conduct the Common IP, FE and SW Examinations. These examinations are loosely based on the Japanese Information-Technology Engineers Examination.\n\nThe council's members currently include the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Malaysia, Mongolia, Japan and Bangladesh. These countries agreed to conduct the examination on the same date and time with the same set of questions, so that the examination is consistent among all of the member countries. This consistency enables accurate measurement of the skills of the examinees, as the region shares one set of IT Skill Standards.\n\n\nThe ITPEC Information Technology Passport Examination (ITPEC IP Exam) is loosely based on the Japan Information Technology Information Technology Passport Examination translated in English, Thai, Vietnamese, Mongol, and Burmese. The exam requires the person to have basic knowledge in IT that all business workers should commonly possess, perform and utilize IT related tasks in his/her charge.\n\n\n\nThe ITPEC Fundamental Information Technology Engineer Examination (ITPEC FE Exam) is loosely based on the Japan Information Technology Fundamental IT Engineers Examination translated in English, Thai, Vietnamese, Mongol, and Burmese. The scope of the examination covers knowledge and skills required by individuals who have basic knowledge and skills related to general aspects of information technology, including those who compose program design sheets, construct programs, and conduct a series of operations to the extent of unit tests in information systems development projects.\n\nThe Information Technology Engineers Examination (ITEE) was first administered in Japan in 1969, and in 1970 it became a national examination under the former Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI, now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry [METI]). It has grown into one of the largest scale national examinations in Japan and has played an important role in the development of IT engineers.\n\nIn October 2000, the \"Asian Common IT Skill Standards Initiative\", proposed by Japan, was adopted at the ASEAN plus Japan, the\nPeople's Republic of China, and the Republic of Korea meeting. In accordance with this initiative, we are working toward the mutual\nrecognition of skill standards for IT engineers in Asia. This collaboration is expected to help increase cross-border utilization of IT human resources and stimulate business alliances across the region. Since April 2006, the common FE examination has been\nconducted twice a year, in the first Sunday of April and third Sunday October at simultaneously starting 1000H Japanese Standard Time.\n\nThe exam is administered for a total of five hours and broken into two parts:\nEach question may have several sub-questions, each answered by multiple choice. The final portion is composed of two 4-question sets. The person must select only one question set depending on their choice of programming language to use (either C programming language or Java programming language).\n\nThe ITPEC Applied Information Technology Examination, formerly known as \"Software Design and Development Engineer Examination\", is also loosely based on its Japanese counterpart, the IPA SW Exam, require individuals who have least two years work experience in software development and have the ability to compose internal design and program design sheets, construct effective programs for information systems development projects, and perform a series of processes ranging from unit tests to integrated tests. It is conducted once a year, every first Sunday April in the same venue of the FE Exams.\nThe exam is administered for a total of five and a half hours and broken into two parts: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18169326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18169326", "title": "Italki", "text": "Italki\n\nitalki is an online language learning website which connects language learners and teachers through video chat. The site allows students to find online teachers for 1-on-1 tutoring, and teachers to earn money as freelance tutors.\n\nIn 2007, Kevin Chen and Yongyue Jiang cofounded italki as an online language exchange community. At the start, the site was focused on building free features for the community.\nIn 2009, the site launched its teacher marketplace, allowing teachers to earn money by providing online tutoring services. Teachers on italki set their own price and time schedule.\n\nIn 2012, italki raised angel funding from independent investors. In 2016, italki raised $3 million from Hujiang, a Baidu-invested Chinese education company with over 100 million users.\n\nAs of July 2017, italki has more than 3 million users from more than 100 countries, and 5000 teachers. English is the most popular language being studied, followed by Spanish, French, Chinese, and Japanese. The site offers more than 100 languages, including endangered ones such as Native American Blackfoot and South African Xhosa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216262", "title": "JSTOR", "text": "JSTOR\n\nJSTOR (; short for \"Journal Storage\") is a digital library founded in 1995. Originally containing digitized back issues of academic journals, it now also includes books and primary sources, and current issues of journals. It provides full-text searches of almost 2,000 journals. , more than 8,000 institutions in more than 160 countries had access to JSTOR; most access is by subscription, but some of the site's public domain content is available at no cost to anyone. JSTOR's revenue was $86 million in 2015.\n\nWilliam G. Bowen, president of Princeton University from 1972 to 1988, founded JSTOR in 1995. JSTOR originally was conceived as a solution to one of the problems faced by libraries, especially research and university libraries, due to the increasing number of academic journals in existence. Most libraries found it prohibitively expensive in terms of cost and space to maintain a comprehensive collection of journals. By digitizing many journal titles, JSTOR allowed libraries to outsource the storage of journals with the confidence that they would remain available long-term. Online access and full-text search ability improved access dramatically.\n\nBowen initially considered using CD-ROMs for distribution. However, Ira Fuchs, Princeton University's vice-president for Computing and Information Technology, convinced Bowen that CD-ROM was becoming an increasingly outdated technology and that network distribution could eliminate redundancy and increase accessibility. (For example, all Princeton's administrative and academic buildings were networked by 1989; the student dormitory network was completed in 1994; and campus networks like the one at Princeton were, in turn, linked to larger networks such as BITNET and the Internet.) JSTOR was initiated in 1995 at seven different library sites, and originally encompassed ten economics and history journals. JSTOR access improved based on feedback from its initial sites, and it became a fully searchable index accessible from any ordinary web browser. Special software was put in place to make pictures and graphs clear and readable.\n\nWith the success of this limited project, Bowen and Kevin Guthrie, then-president of JSTOR, wanted to expand the number of participating journals. They met with representatives of the Royal Society of London and an agreement was made to digitize the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\" dating from its beginning in 1665. The work of adding these volumes to JSTOR was completed by December 2000.\n\nThe Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funded JSTOR initially. Until January 2009 JSTOR operated as an independent, self-sustaining nonprofit organization with offices in New York City and in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Then JSTOR merged with the nonprofit Ithaka Harbors, Inc.—a nonprofit organization founded in 2003 and \"dedicated to helping the academic community take full advantage of rapidly advancing information and networking technologies\".\n\nJSTOR content is provided by more than 900 publishers. The database contains more than 1,900 journal titles, in more than 50 disciplines. Each object is uniquely identified by an integer value, starting at codice_1.\n\nIn addition to the main site, the JSTOR labs group operates an open service that allows access to the contents of the archives for the purposes of corpus analysis at its \"Data for Research\" service. This site offers a search facility with graphical indication of the article coverage and loose integration into the main JSTOR site. Users may create focused sets of articles and then request a dataset containing word and n-gram frequencies and basic metadata. They are notified when the dataset is ready and may download it in either XML or CSV formats. The service does not offer full-text, although academics may request that from JSTOR, subject to a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nJSTOR Plant Science is available in addition to the main site. JSTOR Plant Science provides access to content such as plant type specimens, taxonomic structures, scientific literature, and related materials and aimed at those researching, teaching, or studying botany, biology, ecology, environmental, and conservation studies. The materials on JSTOR Plant Science are contributed through the Global Plants Initiative (GPI) and are accessible only to JSTOR and GPI members. Two partner networks are contributing to this: the African Plants Initiative, which focuses on plants from Africa, and the Latin American Plants Initiative, which contributes plants from Latin America.\n\nJSTOR launched its Books at JSTOR program in November 2012, adding 15,000 current and backlist books to its site. The books are linked with reviews and from citations in journal articles.\n\nIn September 2014, JSTOR launched \"JSTOR Daily\", an online magazine meant to bring academic research to a broader audience. Posted articles are generally based on JSTOR entries, and some entries provide the backstory to current events.\n\nJSTOR is licensed mainly to academic institutions, public libraries, research institutions, museums, and schools. More than 7,000 institutions in more than 150 countries have access. JSTOR has been running a pilot program of allowing subscribing institutions to provide access to their alumni, in addition to current students and staff. The Alumni Access Program officially launched in January 2013. Individual subscriptions also are available to certain journal titles through the journal publisher. Every year, JSTOR blocks 150 million attempts by non-subscribers to read articles.\n\nInquiries have been made about the possibility of making JSTOR open access. According to Harvard Law professor Lawrence Lessig, JSTOR had been asked \"how much would it cost to make this available to the whole world, how much would we need to pay you? The answer was $250 million\".\n\nIn late 2010 and early 2011, Internet activist Aaron Swartz used MIT's data network to bulk-download a substantial portion of JSTOR's collection of academic journal articles. When the bulk-download was discovered, a video camera was placed in the room to film the mysterious visitor and the relevant computer was left untouched. Once video was captured of the visitor, the download was stopped and Swartz was identified. Rather than pursue a civil lawsuit against him, in June 2011 they reached a settlement wherein he surrendered the downloaded data.\n\nThe following month, federal authorities charged Swartz with several \"data theft\"–related crimes, including wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer, and recklessly damaging a protected computer. Prosecutors in the case claimed that Swartz acted with the intention of making the papers available on P2P file-sharing sites.\n\nSwartz surrendered to authorities, pleaded not guilty to all counts, and was released on $100,000 bail. In September 2012, U.S. attorneys increased the number of charges against Swartz from four to thirteen, with a possible penalty of 35 years in prison and $1 million in fines. The case still was pending when Swartz committed suicide in January 2013. Prosecutors dropped the charges after his suicide.\n\nThe availability of most journals on JSTOR is controlled by a \"moving wall\", which is an agreed-upon delay between the current volume of the journal and the latest volume available on JSTOR. This time period is specified by agreement between JSTOR and the publisher of the journal, which usually is three to five years. Publishers may request that the period of a \"moving wall\" be changed or request discontinuation of coverage. Formerly, publishers also could request that the \"moving wall\" be changed to a \"fixed wall\"—a specified date after which JSTOR would not add new volumes to its database. , \"fixed wall\" agreements were still in effect with three publishers of 29 journals made available online through sites controlled by the publishers.\n\nIn 2010, JSTOR started adding current issues of certain journals through its Current Scholarship Program.\n\nBeginning September 6, 2011, JSTOR made public domain content available at no charge to the public. This \"Early Journal Content\" program constitutes about 6% of JSTOR's total content, and includes over 500,000 documents from more than 200 journals that were published before 1923 in the United States, and before 1870 in other countries. JSTOR stated that it had been working on making this material free for some time. The Swartz controversy and Greg Maxwell's protest torrent of the same content led JSTOR to \"press ahead\" with the initiative. , JSTOR does not have plans to extend it to other public domain content, stating that \"We do not believe that just because something is in the public domain, it can always be provided for free\".\n\nIn January 2012, JSTOR started a pilot program, \"Register & Read\", offering limited no-cost access (not open access) to archived articles for individuals who register for the service. At the conclusion of the pilot, in January 2013, JSTOR expanded Register & Read from an initial 76 publishers to include about 1,200 journals from over 700 publishers. Registered readers may read up to six articles online every calendar month, but may not print or download PDFs.\n\nJSTOR is conducting a , whereby established editors are given reading privileges through the Wikipedia Library, as with a university library.\n\nIn 2012, JSTOR users performed nearly 152 million searches, with more than 113 million article views and 73.5 million article downloads. JSTOR has been used as a resource for linguistics research to investigate trends in language use over time and also to analyze gender differences and inequities in scholarly publishing, revealing that in certain fields, men predominate in the prestigious first and last author positions and that women are significantly underrepresented as authors of single-authored papers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1871939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871939", "title": "Jerusalem Botanical Gardens", "text": "Jerusalem Botanical Gardens\n\nThe Jerusalem Botanical Gardens (JBG), originally planned as successor to the National Botanic Garden of Israel on Mount Scopus which, nevertheless, still exists as a separate entity, is located in the neighborhood of Nayot in Jerusalem, on the southeastern edge of the Givat Ram campus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\nThe garden is arranged in phytogeographic sections, featuring flora of various regions around the world. The Jerusalem Botanical Gardens opened to the public in 1985. The tropical conservatory opened in 1986 and the South Africa section was planted in 1989. The Hank Greenspan Entrance Plaza, Dvorsky Visitors’ Center and restaurant were built in 1990.\n\nPlans for the first National Botanic Garden of Israel, on a plot of land purchased on Mount Scopus in 1926, were drawn up by Alexander Eig, chairman of the Botany Department of the Hebrew University, based on the flora of the Land of Israel from Mount Lebanon to the desert. Planting began in 1931. The botanical gardens on Mount Scopus were the first home of the Biblical Zoo. \n\nIn 1948, in the Israeli War of Independence, access to Mount Scopus and the university campus was cut off from the rest of Israel, and it was decided to create a new Botanical Garden (the subject of this entry) near the Jewish National and University Library, on the new campus of the Hebrew University in Givat Ram in western Jerusalem. The new Botanical Garden, including a unique collection of Coniferae, was opened in 1954, soon after the establishment of Givat Ram campus. In 1962, a rocky hill in the southeastern corner of the campus was planted with conifers from North America. That year, Michael Avishai was appointed scientific director of the gardens. Many of the trees were raised from his private seed collection.\n\nBudgeting was a serious problem until 1975, when the Society of Friends of the Botanical Gardens was established and the garden became a joint project of the university, the Jerusalem Municipality and the Jewish National Fund. A scientific board was appointed, and architect Shlomo Aronson was commissioned to plan the layout. In 1981, the Garden Association was founded, and a board of executives appointed. The garden was opened to the public in 1985. In 1994, it separated from the Hebrew University, and has been managed by the Botanical Garden Association since 1996.\n\nThe garden's Japanese section contains over 150 bonsai trees, the largest concentrated collection of bonsai trees in the world.\n\nBirdwatchers have identified 46 species of birds that visit the Gardens throughout the year.\n\nThe 500-meter long \"Bible Path\" is planted with most of the 70 species that scientists have identified as some of the 400 types of plants mentioned in the Bible.\n\nOne of the goals of the garden is to create a living gene bank to protect endangered plants in Israel and the region as a whole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52050776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52050776", "title": "Juan Romagoza Arce", "text": "Juan Romagoza Arce\n\nJuan Romagoza Arze (born 1960) is a Salvadorian surgeon, and current director of La Clinica del Pueblo.\n\nRomagoza was born in Usulutan, El Salvador. In 1973 enrolled to medicine school in University of El Salvador. During his surgeon rotation practice worked in poor and rural areas and was witness of violence and repression by government forces during Salvadoran Civil War against poor, church workers and medical personal that aid them.\n\nIn December 1980, while Romagoza was providing medical care at a church clinic in Santa Anita, Chalatenango, two army vehicles arrived to the clinic and opened fire to the people, Romagoza was shot in one foot and kidnapped and jailed at National Guard headquarters in San Salvador for 22 days where he was tortured and interrogated three or four times per day by electric shocks, cigarette burns, sexually assault, water torture, and being hung by his fingers. In one torturer session he was in his left hand in pressence of Vides Casanova. Juan was released in January 1981 due to the detention he lost 80 pounds and lost his ability to perform surgery due to the injuries inflicted and had to be physically carried out by his uncle.\n\nJuan Romagoza fled El Salvador and moved to Guatemala, Mexico, and lately to the United States on April 1983 was to become an American Citizen in 1986 and was granted political asylum in 1987.\n\nRamagoza became active in assisting the refugee communities and co-founded the Central American Refugee Center (CRECE).\n\nRomagoza worked at La Clínica del Pueblo, were became Executive Director in 1987 and this was a second opportunity to Romagoza to serve free medical care to poor or low income people.\n\nRamagoza v. Garcia was a lawsuit filed by the Center for Justice and Accountability on behalf of survivors of torture during the Salvadoran Civil War. General Garcia lost, and a judgment of over $54 million (U.S.) was entered against him and his co-defendant, and upheld on appeal.\n\nIn 2008, Juan returned to El Salvador and founded the Clinic El Espino, Usulutan, El Salvador, were provide free medical treatment to the communities where he began his career.\n\n"}
{"id": "356985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356985", "title": "Julianna Margulies", "text": "Julianna Margulies\n\nJulianna Luisa Margulies (; born June 8, 1966) is an American actress and producer. After several small television roles, Margulies achieved wide recognition for her role as Carol Hathaway on NBC's long-running medical drama \"ER\", for which she won an Emmy Award. She also voiced Neera in \"Dinosaur\" (2000) and appeared in the miniseries \"The Mists of Avalon\" (2001). In 2009, she took on the lead role of Alicia Florrick in the American legal drama \"The Good Wife\" on CBS. Her performance on that show has garnered acclaim: she won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series twice, a Golden Globe, and a Television Critics Association Award. In 2018, Margulies had a co-starring role as Kitty Montgomery in the AMC dark comedy series \"Dietland\".\n\nMargulies has won eight Screen Actor Guild Awards, making her the second most awarded woman ever within SAG after Julia Louis-Dreyfus. In 2015, \"TIME\" featured her as one of the \"100 Most Influential People in the World\". She was also awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.\n\nMargulies is the youngest of three daughters, born in Spring Valley, New York. Her mother Francesca (née Goldberg, later Gardner) was a ballet dancer and eurythmy teacher; her father Paul Margulies was a writer, philosopher, and Madison Avenue advertising executive. Her parents were both Jewish, descended from Jewish immigrants from Romania, Austria, Hungary, and Russia. Her mother converted to Christianity when the children were young, though Margulies still identifies herself as Jewish. The Margulies family lived in Israel for a period of time before Julianna's birth, then moved back to the Upper West Side of New York City.\n\nMargulies attended grade school at Green Meadow Waldorf School and high school at High Mowing School. As a child, she lived in New York, France, and England. She obtained a BA from Sarah Lawrence College, where she appeared in several campus plays.\n\nMargulies made her feature film debut in Steven Seagal's film \"Out for Justice\" (1991), playing a prostitute. In 1994, Margulies was cast in the pilot episode of the NBC medical drama \"ER\" as Carol Hathaway, an emergency care nurse who, despondent over her relationship with pediatrician Doug Ross (George Clooney), attempted suicide. Her character was originally intended to die; however, the producers changed the plot and made Carol Hathaway a main cast member. At the same time Margulies had been offered an extended role on NBC's \"\", after a two-episode appearance earlier in the year. Margulies chose \"ER\" and remained on the show for six seasons until 2000. She won an Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Television Drama in 1994, and continued to be nominated for this award every year during her tenure on \"ER\". She was the only series regular cast member to win an Emmy Award.\n\nIn March 2012, Margulies broke her silence on her decision to leave \"ER\" at the height of her career and a $27 million paycheck. She revealed that although everyone said it would be \"career suicide\" not to return to the medical drama she had starred in for six years, she was never concerned about the consequences.\n\"I'm a smart girl,\" said Margulies. \"I had a year's worth of work waiting and a mortgage completely paid at age 32. I was under no illusion that I was going to be some big movie star. My dad said, 'If you got hit by a bus tomorrow, were you living your life truthfully, or were you waiting to get rich?' If I died and my soul started leaving my body, would I be looking down going, 'You idiot. You could have gone to Prague, you could have been on Broadway'? Those are the things I wanted to do.\"\n\nAfter leaving the series, Margulies worked on stage and screen. On stage, she appeared in a MCC Theater production of Kate Robin's \"Intrigue With Faye\", a Lincoln Center production of Jon Robin Baitz's \"Ten Unknowns\", and \"The Vagina Monologues.\" Her film work after \"ER\" included \"Evelyn\" with Pierce Brosnan and \"Ghost Ship\" (2002) with Gabriel Byrne and Ron Eldard. She starred as the protagonist and narrator (Morgaine) in the TNT miniseries \"The Mists of Avalon\" (2001) and participated in the documentary film \"Searching for Debra Winger\" (2002).\n\nIn 2004, she guest-starred in a two-episode arc in season 4 of the hit TV show \"Scrubs\" as Neena Broderick, an unscrupulous lawyer who sues Turk and has a brief sexual relationship with J.D. She starred in another miniseries on TNT, \"The Grid.\" In April 2006, she appeared in four episodes of the sixth season of \"The Sopranos,\" portraying realtor Julianna Skiff. In August 2006, she appeared in \"Snakes on a Plane\" as flight attendant Claire Miller. In December 2006, she played Jennifer Bloom in the Syfy Channel miniseries \"The Lost Room\".\nIn an August 2006 interview with tvguide.com, Margulies said she was close to accepting an offer to return to \"ER\" for a four-episode arc, with Noah Wyle, that filmed in Hawaii during the 2005/06 season. However, she decided against it at the last minute. Margulies was invited to return during \"ER\"'s final season, but the actress initially turned down the offer, saying she felt like she left Carol Hathaway in the perfect place and could not imagine bettering her departure episode. However, Margulies did return to \"ER\" for one episode during its 15th and final season.\n\nShe had a minor role in \"The Darwin Awards\" (2007). In 2008, Margulies starred in the legal series \"Canterbury's Law,\" a Fox mid-season replacement show. She played the title character, Elizabeth Canterbury, a lawyer described as a \"tough-minded defense attorney who isn't afraid to push boundaries in order to protect innocent clients.\" She was also credited as a producer of the show. The series was severely affected by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike; it was cancelled by the network after only six episodes.\n\nIn 2009, Margulies began starring in the CBS legal drama \"The Good Wife.\" She played Alicia Florrick, an attorney returning to legal practice after her husband Peter Florrick (played by Chris Noth) resigned as Illinois State's Attorney amid a sex and corruption scandal. Beginning in 2011, starting with the third season, Margulies was credited as a producer of \"The Good Wife.\" The series ended in May 2016.\n\nSince 2013, the actress does voiceovers for a Chase credit card commercial. In 2014, Margulies narrated \"Women in Business\", an episode of season 2 of \"\". In 2015, \"TIME\" featured Margulies as one of the \"100 Most Influential People in the World.\" It noted her work to get Erin's Law, concerned with child sexual abuse, passed in every US state.\n\nIn 2018, Margulies co-starred in the dark comedy series \"Dietland\" on AMC as Kitty Montgomery - a nasty, razor-thin fashionista who employs an overweight woman for menial tasks and enjoys torturing her no end (especially about her weight).\n\nFrom 1991 to 2003, Margulies dated actor Ron Eldard, whom she met in an acting class. On November 10, 2007, Margulies married attorney Keith Lieberthal, the son of academic Kenneth Lieberthal, in Lenox, Massachusetts. On January 17, 2008, she gave birth to their son Kieran Lindsay Lieberthal. They reside in Manhattan.\n\n"}
{"id": "19811135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19811135", "title": "Juliet McMains", "text": "Juliet McMains\n\nJuliet E. McMains is a United States dance scholar and instructor, the author of the \"Glamour Addiction\", the first comprehensive study of the United States DanceSport.\n\nJuliet McMains started doing ballroom dancing as a teenager. Eventually she became professional ballroom dancer until she stopped competing in 2003. Her Senior thesis in the college was \"Tradition and Transgression: Gender Roles in Ballroom Dancing\". She earned B.A. in Women's Studies from Harvard University and PhD in dance history and theory (2003) at the University of California, Riverside.\n\n, she is a teacher of World Dance History, Beginning Salsa, Beginning Tango, Beginning Swing and Beginning Ballroom dance at the University of Washington, Seattle. Her academic specializations include dance ethnography, social dance history, post-structural theory, cultural studies, and feminist theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "851794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=851794", "title": "King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals", "text": "King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals\n\nKing Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM or UPM) (, – short: ) is a public university in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. Among Saudi universities, its science and engineering programs are highly regarded.\n\nKFUPM was established on 23 September 1963 by a Saudi royal decree as the College of Petroleum and Minerals providing high-level education about petroleum and minerals, two of the most-valuable natural resources in Saudi Arabia. It was elevated to university status in 1975. It was renamed after King Fahd in 1986.\n\nKFUPM offers degrees of Bachelor of Science, Master of Science, Master of Engineering and Doctor of Philosophy. The grading system is the standard 0 to 4.0 scale with classes of:\n\nWith an acceptance rate of only 10%, it is the most selective in Saudi Arabia. The university's admission policy applies certain criteria to ensure admissions of the most promising students. In 2012, the university accepted the best 2% of high school graduates from all over the Kingdom. comprising 20% for the high school certificate, 30% for the general capabilities test (similar to SAT), and 50% for the collective test performances (test of high school's maths, physics, chemistry and Biology). Both the general capabilities test and the collective test are constructed by Qiyas.\n\nKFUPM was named the top university in the Arab Region as per QS University Rankings for 2015 and 2016. KFUPM was ranked 18 among \"QS Top 50 Under 50\". The \"QS Top 50 Under 50\" is a new ranking that lists the leading universities worldwide founded since 1962. Also, it was ranked as one of the best 400 universities around the world according to the Academic Ranking of World Universities ARWU in 2011 and 2012 by Shanghai Jiaotong University. In 2012, the ARWU ranked the Mathematics subject in top 50 worldwide. In the academic year 2013-2014, it was awarded the 216th position in the QS World University Rankings.\n\nAll programs of the engineering colleges were evaluated for \"Substantial-Equivalency\" recognition by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). They were found substantially equivalent to similar accredited programs in the U.S. The Master of Business Administration offered by the University is accredited by Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).\n\n\n\nThe current Acting Rector of KFUPM is Dr. Sahel N. Abduljauwad.\n\nKing Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals organized the International Advisory Board (IAB) in March 2007. The IAB is composed of senior academic and corporate executives.\n\nGenerally referred to as the KASP, the science park was established in 2002 and is located on a 35-hectare site north of the KFUPM campus. The park is closely integrated with the university. With its proximity to the science and engineering colleges, KASP provides interaction between tenant firms and their personnel and university scientists and engineers. At present, Schlumberger, Ciba, Yokogawa, Honeywell, UOP, Baker Hughes and JCCP have joined the park.\n\nThe Consulting Services Center facilitate the consulting services for the university faculty to serve the industrial community in Saudi Arabia which contributes to their professional development and helps the outside community to resolve problems that require high intellectual and technological background.\n\nThe Technology Business Incubator provides a set of logistical, strategic, and operational support for start-up Saudi technology companies and entrepreneurs.\n\nThe Liaison Office is a point of contact with the industry/business.\n\nThe center is at the corniche of nearby Khobar city on 21,700 m. The buildings area is 14,100 m. It consists of seven main show halls, dealing with different sciences and technologies. There are more than 350 scientific exhibited pieces and the IMAX scientific dome (the only IMAX theater in Saudi Arabia), the Astronomic Observatory, Educational Unit, Conference Hall, Temporary Exhibitions Hall and Administrative and Services Facilities.\n\nThe technical expertise for applied research available in the RI is focused in its seven centers with their sections/labs.\n\n\nThe manpower of the RI as of 1 January 2005 was 258 full-time employees, of whom 53 held PhD degrees, 64 held MS degrees, 50 held BS degrees, and 91 held other credentials. Project teams are typically formed of 35% full-time RI researchers, 25% faculty members, 10% students, and 30% support staff.\n\nThe library, centrally located in Building 8 and a short walk from most classrooms and laboratories, has an available floor space of nearly 7,000 square meters. It is an \"open-stack\" library, allowing users free access to its resources. Reading areas are on the first, third, and fourth floors.\n\nThe current collection of books and bound periodicals totals over 328,000 volumes, 32% in science, 21% in engineering, 24% in humanities, and 23% in social sciences. It has over 23,000 volumes in Arabic and over 300,000 volumes in English and subscribes to approximately 1,500 periodicals. In addition, there are some 490,000 research reports on microfiche and 63,000 documents in other media, including more than 25,000 educational films and 38,000 reels of journal back issues on microfilm. Audiovisual materials are provided through a well-equipped audio-visual (AV) department with a collection consisting principally of motion pictures, filmstrips, videotapes, and audio cassettes. These AV materials can be used in the library auditorium which is also used for seminars, lectures, short courses, theses defense, and other presentations.\n\n\nIt was announced in 2007 that the University will establish an independent administrative body tasked with managing and overseeing donations and the University's industry collaboration activities. The Endowment Fund Office is composed of an independent governing board, with a professional staff that manages the Fund's operations, resembling those of Harvard Investment Group and the Yale Investment Office. The KFUPM Fund is the first in Saudi Arabia to be professionally managed by specialized finance and investment teams. The mission of the Fund is to be able to provide the necessary financing (up to 30%) the University needs in the future, and cover costs that aren't sponsored by the University's main funds source, The Ministry of Education. In just over five years, the Endowment has grown to be the largest university endowment in Saudi Arabia (relative to the size of KFUPM budget) and was able to raise more than $500 million in financial assets along with real estate assets. The Endowment's main investment projects include the establishment of a business park in the north side of the KFUPM campus that includes constructing numerous hotels and office buildings. The University has contracted the UK-based Marts & Lundy to consult on fundraising and managing activities. The Fund's main financing activities include the establishment of specific-purpose research grants and projects. In addition, the Endowment has announced the creation of 8 doctoral fellowships (the first of its kind in the kingdom that is unrelated to governmental constraints in terms of funding).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7983699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983699", "title": "Knowledge divide", "text": "Knowledge divide\n\nThe knowledge divide is the gap in standards of living between those who can find, create, manage, process, and disseminate information or knowledge, and those who are impaired in this process. According to a 2005 UNESCO World Report, the rise in the 21st century of a global information society has resulted in the emergence of knowledge as a valuable resource, increasingly determining who has access to power and profit. The rapid dissemination of information on a potentially global scale as a result of new information media and the globally uneven ability to assimilate knowledge and information has resulted in potentially expanding gaps in knowledge between individuals and nations.\n\nIn the 21st century, the emergence of the knowledge society becomes pervasive. The transformations of world's economy and of each society have a fast pace. Together with information and communication technologies (ICT) these new paradigms have the power to reshape the global economy. In order to keep pace with innovations, to come up with new ideas, people need to produce and manage knowledge. This is why knowledge has become essential for all societies.\n\nAccording to UNESCO and the World Bank, knowledge gaps between nations may occur due to the varying degrees by which individual nations incorporate the following elements:\n\n\nThe information and ICT systems that support knowledge are very important. This is why digitization is viewed closely related to knowledge. Scientists generally agree that there is a digital divide, recently different reports also showed the existence of knowledge divide.\n\nThe creation and effective use of knowledge are increasingly related to the development of an ICT infrastructure. Without ICT, it is impossible to have an infrastructure able to process the huge flow of information required in an advanced economy. In particular, without adequate technical support, it is difficult to develop and use e-learning and electronic documents to overcome time and space constraints.\n\nThe digital divide is, however, but one important part of the larger knowledge divide. As UNESCO states, \"closing the digital divide will not suffice to close the knowledge divide, for access to useful, relevant knowledge is more than simply a matter of infrastructure—it depends on training, cognitive skills and regulatory frameworks geared towards access to contents.\"\n\nIn the book Digital Dead End, Virginia Eubanks criticizes the way that the digital divide is generally thought of as a division between haves and have-nots, where the solution is distribution. This over simplistic depiction obscures the fact that often social and structural inequality is at the root of the divide. According to a study done by Eubanks with women of the YWCA, the women of the community \"insisted that have-nots possess many different kinds of crucial information and skills.\" In other words, it is not simply knowledge of the technology itself that is the issue but the structural system based on perpetuating the status quo in which the haves \"hoard\" knowledge.\n\nFirst, it was noticed that a great difference exists between the North and the South (rich countries vs. poor countries). The development of knowledge depends on spreading Internet and computer technology and also on the development of education in these countries. If a country has attained a higher literacy level then this will result in having higher level of knowledge.\nIndeed, UNESCO's report details many social issues in knowledge divide related to globalization. There was noticed a knowledge divide with respect to\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5370985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5370985", "title": "Lawrence S.B. Goldstein", "text": "Lawrence S.B. Goldstein\n\nLawrence S.B. Goldstein (born February 20, 1956 in Buffalo, New York) is a professor of cellular and molecular medicine at University of California, San Diego and investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He receives grant funding from the NIH, the Johns Hopkins ALS Center, the HighQ Foundation, and the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine.\n\nDr. Goldstein received his B.A. degree in biology and genetics from UCSD in 1976 and his Ph.D. degree in genetics from the University of Washington, Seattle in 1980. He did postdoctoral research at the University of Colorado at Boulder from 1980–1983 and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983/1984. He was Assistant, Associate and Full Professor at Harvard University in the Department of Cellular and Developmental Biology from 1984–1993 and moved to UCSD and HHMI in 1993. His awards include a Senior Scholar Award from the Ellison Medical Foundation, an American Cancer Society Faculty Research Award, and the Loeb Chair in Natural Sciences when he was at Harvard University.\n\nHis research is focused on understanding the molecular mechanisms of intracellular movement in neurons and the role of transport failures in neurodegenerative diseases. His lab provided the first molecular descriptions of kinesin structure and organization, and also discovered important links between transport processes and diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease and Huntington's Disease. Dr. Goldstein has also had an active role in National Science policy. He has served on many public science advisory committees, has written about, spoken about, and been interviewed on numerous occasions on science issues by print and broadcast media, and has testified on a number of occasions in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate about NIH funding and stem cell research. As a cofounder and consultant of the biotechnology company Cytokinetics, Inc. he has also had an active role in private industry. Goldstein has also served as elected secretary of the American Society for Cell Biology (ASCB).\n"}
{"id": "183403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183403", "title": "Learning", "text": "Learning\n\nLearning is the process of acquiring new, or modifying existing, knowledge, behaviors, skills, values, or preferences. The ability to learn is possessed by humans, animals, and some machines; there is also evidence for some kind of learning in some plants. Some learning is immediate, induced by a single event (e.g. being burned by a hot stove), but much skill and knowledge accumulates from repeated experiences. The changes induced by learning often last a lifetime, and it is hard to distinguish learned material that seems to be \"lost\" from that which cannot be retrieved.\n\nHuman learning begins before birth and continues until death as a consequence of ongoing interactions between person and environment. The nature and processes involved in learning are studied in many fields, including educational psychology, neuropsychology, experimental psychology, and pedagogy. Research in such fields has led to the identification of various sorts of learning. For example, learning may occur as a result of habituation, or classical conditioning, operant conditioning or as a result of more complex activities such as play, seen only in relatively intelligent animals. Learning may occur consciously or without conscious awareness. Learning that an aversive event can't be avoided nor escaped may result in a condition called learned helplessness. There is evidence for human behavioral learning prenatally, in which habituation has been observed as early as 32 weeks into gestation, indicating that the central nervous system is sufficiently developed and primed for learning and memory to occur very early on in development.\n\nPlay has been approached by several theorists as the first form of learning. Children experiment with the world, learn the rules, and learn to interact through play. Lev Vygotsky agrees that play is pivotal for children's development, since they make meaning of their environment through playing educational games.\n\n\"Non-associative learning\" refers to \"a relatively permanent change in the strength of response to a single stimulus due to repeated exposure to that stimulus. Changes due to such factors as sensory adaptation, fatigue, or injury do not qualify as non-associative learning.\"\n\nNon-associative learning can be divided into habituation and sensitization.\n\n\"Habituation\" is an example of non-associative learning in which the strength or probability of a response diminishes when the stimulus is repeated. The response is typically a reflex or unconditioned response. Thus, habituation must be distinguished from extinction, which is an associative process. In operant extinction, for example, a response declines because it is no longer followed by a reward. An example of habituation can be seen in small song birds—if a stuffed owl (or similar predator) is put into the cage, the birds initially react to it as though it were a real predator. Soon the birds react less, showing habituation. If another stuffed owl is introduced (or the same one removed and re-introduced), the birds react to it again as though it were a predator, demonstrating that it is only a very specific stimulus that is habituated to (namely, one particular unmoving owl in one place). The habituation process is faster for stimuli that occur at a high rather than for stimuli that occur at a low rate as well as for the weak and strong stimuli, respectively. Habituation has been shown in essentially every species of animal, as well as the sensitive plant \"Mimosa pudica\" and the large protozoan \"Stentor coeruleus\". This concept acts in direct opposition to sensitization.\n\n\"Sensitization\" is an example of non-associative learning in which the progressive amplification of a response follows repeated administrations of a stimulus (Bell et al., 1995). This is based on the notion that a defensive reflex to a stimulus such as withdrawal or escape becomes stronger after the exposure to a different harmful or threatening stimulus. An everyday example of this mechanism is the repeated tonic stimulation of peripheral nerves that occurs if a person rubs their arm continuously. After a while, this stimulation creates a warm sensation that eventually turns painful. The pain results from the progressively amplified synaptic response of the peripheral nerves warning that the stimulation is harmful. Sensitisation is thought to underlie both adaptive as well as maladaptive learning processes in the organism.\n\n\"Active learning\" occurs when a person takes control of his/her learning experience. Since understanding information is the key aspect of learning, it is important for learners to recognize what they understand and what they do not. By doing so, they can monitor their own mastery of subjects. Active learning encourages learners to have an internal dialogue in which they verbalize understandings. This and other meta-cognitive strategies can be taught to a child over time. Studies within metacognition have proven the value in active learning, claiming that the learning is usually at a stronger level as a result. In addition, learners have more incentive to learn when they have control over not only how they learn but also what they learn. Active learning is a key characteristic of student-centered learning. Conversely, passive learning and direct instruction are characteristics of teacher-centered learning (or traditional education).\n\nThe research works on the human learning process as a complex adaptive system developed by Peter Belohlavek showed that it is the concept that the individual has that drives the accommodation process to assimilate new knowledge in the long-term memory, defining learning as an intrinsically freedom-oriented and active process. As a student-centered learning approach, the unicist reflection driven learning installs adaptive knowledge objects in the mind of the learner based on a cyclic process of: “action-reflection-action” to foster an adaptive behavior.\n\n\"Associative learning\" is the process by which a person or animal learns an association between two stimuli or events. In classical conditioning a previously neutral stimulus is repeatedly paired with a reflex eliciting stimulus until eventually the neutral stimulus elicits a response on its own. In operant conditioning, a behavior that is reinforced or punished in the presence of a stimulus becomes more or less likely to occur in the presence of that stimulus.\n\nIn \"operant conditioning\", a reinforcement (by reward) or instead a punishment given after a given behavior, change the frequency and/or form of that behavior. Stimulus present when the behavior/consequence occurs come to control these behavior modifications.\n\nThe typical paradigm for \"classical conditioning\" involves repeatedly pairing an unconditioned stimulus (which unfailingly evokes a reflexive response) with another previously neutral stimulus (which does not normally evoke the response). Following conditioning, the response occurs both to the unconditioned stimulus and to the other, unrelated stimulus (now referred to as the \"conditioned stimulus\"). The response to the conditioned stimulus is termed a \"conditioned response\". The classic example is Ivan Pavlov and his dogs. Pavlov fed his dogs meat powder, which naturally made the dogs salivate—salivating is a reflexive response to the meat powder. Meat powder is the unconditioned stimulus (US) and the salivation is the unconditioned response (UR). Pavlov rang a bell before presenting the meat powder. The first time Pavlov rang the bell, the neutral stimulus, the dogs did not salivate, but once he put the meat powder in their mouths they began to salivate. After numerous pairings of bell and food, the dogs learned that the bell signaled that food was about to come, and began to salivate when they heard the bell. Once this occurred, the bell became the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the salivation to the bell became the conditioned response (CR). Classical conditioning has been demonstrated in many species. For example, it is seen in honeybees, in the proboscis extension reflex paradigm. It was recently also demonstrated in garden pea plants.\n\nAnother influential person in the world of classical conditioning is John B. Watson. Watson's work was very influential and paved the way for B.F. Skinner's radical behaviorism. Watson's behaviorism (and philosophy of science) stood in direct contrast to Freud and other accounts based largely on introspection. Watson's view was that the introspective method was too subjective, and that we should limit the study of human development to directly observable behaviors. In 1913, Watson published the article \"Psychology as the Behaviorist Views,\" in which he argued that laboratory studies should serve psychology best as a science. Watson's most famous, and controversial, experiment, \"Little Albert\", where he demonstrated how psychologists can account for the learning of emotion through classical conditioning principles.\n\n\"Observational learning\" is learning that occurs through observing the behavior of others. It is a form of social learning which takes various forms, based on various processes. In humans, this form of learning seems to not need reinforcement to occur, but instead, requires a social model such as a parent, sibling, friend, or teacher with surroundings.\n\n\"Imprinting\" is a kind of learning occurring at a particular life stage that is rapid and apparently independent of the consequences of behavior. In filial imprinting, young animals, particularly birds, form an association with another individual or in some cases, an object, that they respond to as they would to a parent. In 1935, the Austrian Zoologist Konrad Lorenz discovered that certain birds follow and form a bond if the object makes sounds.\n\n\"Play\" generally describes behavior with no particular end in itself, but that improves performance in similar future situations. This is seen in a wide variety of vertebrates besides humans, but is mostly limited to mammals and birds. Cats are known to play with a ball of string when young, which gives them experience with catching prey. Besides inanimate objects, animals may play with other members of their own species or other animals, such as orcas playing with seals they have caught. Play involves a significant cost to animals, such as increased vulnerability to predators and the risk of injury and possibly infection. It also consumes energy, so there must be significant benefits associated with play for it to have evolved. Play is generally seen in younger animals, suggesting a link with learning. However, it may also have other benefits not associated directly with learning, for example improving physical fitness.\n\nPlay, as it pertains to humans as a form of learning is central to a child's learning and development. Through play, children learn social skills such as sharing and collaboration. Children develop emotional skills such as learning to deal with the emotion of anger, through play activities. As a form of learning, play also facilitates the development of thinking and language skills in children.\n\nThere are five types of play:\n\nThese five types of play are often intersecting. All types of play generate thinking and problem-solving skills in children. Children learn to think creatively when they learn through play. Specific activities involved in each type of play change over time as humans progress through the lifespan. Play as a form of learning, can occur solitarily, or involve interacting with others.\n\n\"Enculturation\" is the process by which people learn values and behaviors that are appropriate or necessary in their surrounding culture. Parents, other adults, and peers shape the individual's understanding of these values. If successful, enculturation results in competence in the language, values and rituals of the culture. This is different from acculturation, where a person adopts the values and societal rules of a culture different from their native one.\n\nMultiple examples of enculturation can be found cross-culturally. Collaborative practices in the Mazahua people have shown that participation in everyday interaction and later learning activities contributed to enculturation rooted in nonverbal social experience. As the children participated in everyday activities, they learned the cultural significance of these interactions. The collaborative and helpful behaviors exhibited by Mexican and Mexican-heritage children is a cultural practice known as being \"acomedido\". Chillihuani girls in Peru described themselves as weaving constantly, following behavior shown by the other adults.\n\n\"Episodic learning\" is a change in behavior that occurs as a result of an event. For example, a fear of dogs that follows being bitten by a dog is episodic learning. Episodic learning is so named because events are recorded into episodic memory, which is one of the three forms of explicit learning and retrieval, along with perceptual memory and semantic memory. Episodic memory remembers events and history that are embedded in experience and this is distinguished from semantic memory, which attempts to extract facts out of their experiential context or - as some describe - a timeless organization of knowledge. For instance, if a person remembers the Grand Canyon from a recent visit, it is an episodic memory. He would use semantic memory to answer someone who would ask him information such as where the Grand Canyon is. A study revealed that humans are very accurate in the recognition of episodic memory even without deliberate intention to memorize it. This is said to indicate a very large storage capacity of the brain for things that people pay attention to.\n\n\"Multimedia learning\" is where a person uses both auditory and visual stimuli to learn information . This type of learning relies on dual-coding theory .\n\n\"Electronic learning\" or e-learning is computer-enhanced learning. A specific and always more diffused e-learning is mobile learning (m-learning), which uses different mobile telecommunication equipment, such as cellular phones.\n\nWhen a learner interacts with the e-learning environment, it's called augmented learning. By adapting to the needs of individuals, the context-driven instruction can be dynamically tailored to the learner's natural environment. Augmented digital content may include text, images, video, audio (music and voice). By personalizing instruction, augmented learning has been shown to improve learning performance for a lifetime. See also minimally invasive education.\n\nMoore (1989) purported that three core types of interaction are necessary for quality, effective online learning:\nIn his theory of transactional distance, Moore (1993) contented that structure and interaction or dialogue bridge the gap in understanding and communication that is created by geographical distances (known as transactional distance).\n\n\"Rote learning\" is memorizing information so that it can be recalled by the learner exactly the way it was read or heard. The major technique used for rote learning is \"learning by repetition\", based on the idea that a learner can recall the material exactly (but not its meaning) if the information is repeatedly processed. Rote learning is used in diverse areas, from mathematics to music to religion. Although it has been criticized by some educators, rote learning is a necessary precursor to meaningful learning.\n\n\"Meaningful learning\" is the concept that learned knowledge (e.g., a fact) is fully understood to the extent that it relates to other knowledge. To this end, meaningful learning contrasts with rote learning in which information is acquired without regard to understanding. Meaningful learning, on the other hand, implies there is a comprehensive knowledge of the context of the facts learned.\n\n\"Informal learning\" occurs through the experience of day-to-day situations (for example, one would learn to look ahead while walking because of the danger inherent in not paying attention to where one is going). It is learning from life, during a meal at table with parents, play, exploring, etc.\n\n\"Formal learning\" is learning that takes place within a teacher-student relationship, such as in a school system. The term formal learning has nothing to do with the formality of the learning, but rather the way it is directed and organized. In formal learning, the learning or training departments set out the goals and objectives of the learning.\n\n\"Nonformal learning\" is organized learning outside the formal learning system. For example, learning by coming together with people with similar interests and exchanging viewpoints, in clubs or in (international) youth organizations, workshops.\n\nThe educational system may use a combination of formal, informal, and nonformal learning methods. The UN and EU recognize these different forms of learning (cf. links below). In some schools, students can get points that count in the formal-learning systems if they get work done in informal-learning circuits. They may be given time to assist international youth workshops and training courses, on the condition they prepare, contribute, share and can prove this offered valuable new insight, helped to acquire new skills, a place to get experience in organizing, teaching, etc.\n\nTo learn a skill, such as solving a Rubik's Cube quickly, several factors come into play at once:\n\n\"Tangential learning\" is the process by which people self-educate if a topic is exposed to them in a context that they already enjoy. For example, after playing a music-based video game, some people may be motivated to learn how to play a real instrument, or after watching a TV show that references Faust and Lovecraft, some people may be inspired to read the original work. Self-education can be improved with systematization. According to experts in natural learning,\nself-oriented learning training has proven an effective tool for assisting independent learners with the natural phases of learning.\n\n\"Extra Credits\" writer and game designer James Portnow was the first to suggest games as a potential venue for \"tangential learning\". Mozelius \"et al.\" points out that intrinsic integration of learning content seems to be a crucial design factor, and that games that include modules for further self-studies tend to present good results. The built-in encyclopedias in the \"Civilization\" games are presented as an example - by using these modules gamers can dig deeper for knowledge about historical events in the gameplay. The importance of rules that regulate learning modules and game experience is discussed by Moreno, C., in a case study about the mobile game . In this game, developed by Landka in collaboration with ESA and ESO, game progress is rewarded with educational content, as opposed to traditional education games where learning activities are rewarded with gameplay.\n\n\"Dialogic learning\" is a type of learning based on dialogue.\n\nIn \"incidental teaching\" learning is not planned by the instructor or the student, it occurs as a byproduct of another activity — an experience, observation, self-reflection, interaction, unique event, or common routine task. This learning happens in addition to or apart from the instructor's plans and the student's expectations. An example of incidental teaching is when the instructor places a train set on top of a cabinet. If the child points or walks towards the cabinet, the instructor prompts the student to say “train.” Once the student says “train,” he gets access to the train set.\n\nHere are some steps most commonly used in incidental teaching:\n\nIncidental learning is an occurrence that is not generally accounted for using the traditional methods of instructional objectives and outcomes assessment. This type of learning occurs in part as a product of social interaction and active involvement in both online and onsite courses. Research implies that some un-assessed aspects of onsite and online learning challenge the equivalency of education between the two modalities. Both onsite and online learning have distinct advantages with traditional on-campus students experiencing higher degrees of incidental learning in three times as many areas as online students. Additional research is called for to investigate the implications of these findings both conceptually and pedagogically.\n\nBenjamin Bloom has suggested three domains of learning:\n\nThese domains are not mutually exclusive. For example, in learning to play chess, the person must learn the rules (cognitive domain)—but must also learn how to set up the chess pieces and how to properly hold and move a chess piece (psychomotor). Furthermore, later in the game the person may even learn to love the game itself, value its applications in life, and appreciate its history (affective domain).\n\nTransfer of learning is the application of skill, knowledge or understanding to resolve a novel problem or situation that happens when certain conditions are fulfilled. Research indicates that learning transfer is infrequent; most common when \"... cued, primed, and guided...\" and has sought to clarify what it is, and how it might be promoted through instruction.\n\nOver the history of its discourse, various hypotheses and definitions have been advanced. First, it is speculated that different types of transfer exist, including: near transfer, the application of skill to solve a novel problem in a similar context; and far transfer, the application of skill to solve novel problem presented in a different context. Furthermore, Perkins and Salomon (1992) suggest that positive transfer in cases when learning supports novel problem solving, and negative transfer occurs when prior learning inhibits performance on highly correlated tasks, such as second or third-language learning. Concepts of positive and negative transfer have a long history; researchers in the early 20th century described the possibility that \"...habits or mental acts developed by a particular kind of training may inhibit rather than facilitate other mental activities\". Finally, Schwarz, Bransford and Sears (2005) have proposed that transferring knowledge into a situation may differ from transferring knowledge out to a situation as a means to reconcile findings that transfer may both be frequent and challenging to promote.\n\nA significant and long research history has also attempted to explicate the conditions under which transfer of learning might occur. Early research by Ruger, for example, found that the \"level of attention\", \"attitudes\", \"method of attack\" (or method for tackling a problem), a \"search for new points of view\", \"a careful testing of hypothesis\" and \"generalization\" were all valuable approaches for promoting transfer. To encourage transfer through teaching, Perkins and Salomon recommend aligning (\"hugging\") instruction with practice and assessment, and \"bridging\", or encouraging learners to reflect on past experiences or make connections between prior knowledge and current content.\n\n\nThere are several internal factors that affect learning. They are\n\nAnimals gain knowledge in two ways. First is learning—in which an animal gathers information about its environment and uses this information. For example, if an animal eats something that hurts its stomach, it learns not to eat that again. The second is innate knowledge that is genetically inherited. An example of this is when a horse is born and can immediately walk. The horse has not learned this behavior; it simply knows how to do it. In some scenarios, innate knowledge is more beneficial than learned knowledge. However, in other scenarios the opposite is true—animals must learn certain behaviors when it is disadvantageous to have a specific innate behavior. In these situations, learning evolves in the species.\n\nIn a changing environment, an animal must constantly gain new information to survive. However, in a stable environment, this same individual needs to gather the information it needs once, and then rely on it for the rest of its life. Therefore, different scenarios better suit either learning or innate knowledge.\nEssentially, the cost of obtaining certain knowledge versus the benefit of already having it determines whether an animal evolved to learn in a given situation, or whether it innately knew the information. If the cost of gaining the knowledge outweighs the benefit of having it, then the animal does not evolve to learn in this scenario—but instead, non-learning evolves. However, if the benefit of having certain information outweighs the cost of obtaining it, then the animal is far more likely to evolve to have to learn this information.\n\nNon-learning is more likely to evolve in two scenarios. If an environment is static and change does not or rarely occurs, then learning is simply unnecessary. Because there is no need for learning in this scenario—and because learning could prove disadvantageous due to the time it took to learn the information—non-learning evolves. However, if an environment is in a constant state of change, then learning is disadvantageous. Anything learned is immediately irrelevant because of the changing environment. The learned information no longer applies. Essentially, the animal would be just as successful if it took a guess as if it learned. In this situation, non-learning evolves. In fact, a study of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" showed that learning can actually lead to a decrease in productivity, possibly because egg-laying behaviors and decisions were impaired by interference from the memories gained from the new learned materials or because of the cost of energy in learning.\n\nHowever, in environments where change occurs within an animal's lifetime but is not constant, learning is more likely to evolve. Learning is beneficial in these scenarios because an animal can adapt to the new situation, but can still apply the knowledge that it learns for a somewhat extended period of time. Therefore, learning increases the chances of success as opposed to guessing. An example of this is seen in aquatic environments with landscapes subject to change. In these environments, learning is favored because the fish are predisposed to learn the specific spatial cues where they live.\n\nMachine learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, concerns the construction and study of systems that can learn from data. For example, a machine learning system could be trained on email messages to learn to distinguish between spam and non-spam messages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38574264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38574264", "title": "Link-Systems International", "text": "Link-Systems International\n\nLink-Systems International, Inc. is a privately held distance-learning software corporation based in Tampa, Florida, US. The company is best known for NetTutor, its online tutoring service, WorldWideTestbank, its platform for authoring online content, and its WorldWideWhiteboard education-focused online collaboration platform. Link-Systems International, Inc. ranked 3396 on the Inc. 5000 in 2014.\n\nLink-Systems International (LSI) was founded in 1995 and incorporated in the state of Florida on February 27, 1996. It started as an internet content authoring and repurposing service. For several years, LSI performed the conversion of scholarly content such as journals from earlier print-oriented formats to a format for Web display.\n\nIn 1997, LSI developers released a Java-based application they called \"NetTutor\". This was an online educational interface that allowed participants and a \"leader\" to collaborate in real time. When the leader draws or places text, figures and symbols such as square-root and integral signs on a virtual whiteboard, they are simultaneously displayed on all users' screens. Other participants can \"raise their hands\" and be recognized by the leader, who can grant them access to draw or type on the whiteboard area. A secondary, instant messaging-style text area allows text-only communication. LSI leased this interface to educational partners (schools and textbook publishers, chiefly), but renamed the platform WorldWideWhiteboard in 2001 to distinguish it from its online tutoring service, which kept the name NetTutor.\n\nLSI launched the NetTutor online tutoring service in 1998. NetTutor uses the WorldWideWhiteboard and a proprietary queuing system. Students who log in gain access to professional tutors who provide assistance in specific subject areas. NetTutor employs the tutors on a full-time basis and only allows them to conduct their tutoring at a single physical site, namely, the LSI headquarters in Tampa. Other online tutoring services employ part-time tutors and allow them to tutor from any physical location.\n\nAnother distinction between NetTutor and other services is that a set of written guidelines is drawn up in consultation with client institutions and amended as needed. Such guidelines reinforce tutoring best practices, such as that tutors should prefer the Socratic method and scaffolding over simply answering questions. However, they also can be used to instruct tutors to adopt special practices preferred by the client. Some examples of tutoring guidelines are available on the Web.\n\nWhen institutions sponsor student access to NetTutor, it is usually linked to from the campus website or learning management system. NetTutor also maintains an eCommerce site through which students connect to receive tutoring and pay for it on their own.\n\nLSI developed the WorldWideTestbank platform for creating a wide variety of problem-types. True-false, multiple choice, and free input are the traditional ones, but the WorldWideTestbank also supports graphical and manipulative problem-types. The interface development environment of the WorldWideTestbank supports authors' programming in the platform's own scripting language and creates a \"template\" for each question. Depending on how it is programmed, a single template can yield an indefinite number of problems for a user to practice by inserting randomly selected numbers and phrases in each instance of the template. The WorldWideTestbank also enables an instructor to specify how close the student has to be to an exact correct answer to be \"correct.\" For instance, in numerical answers, students may be required to express answers with a specific number of significant digits.\n\nIn 2010, LSI released two platforms: an educational institution analytics platform called Information Visibility Solutions™ (IVS) and a homework and assessment platform that combined features of the WorldWideTestbank and WorldWidewGradebook with an optional connection to tutoring called MyAcademicWorkshop™. IVS applies the alerts and notices features common in gradebook applications, but at an enterprise level and with user-definable dashboards. For IVS, which bridges different databases in which an institution may hold its data to display interrelated events about a college campus as the events are occurring, LSI collaborated with Mindshare, Inc. in nearby Clearwater, Florida, a company that already had developed analytics for the state of Florida; MyAcademicWorkshop enables schools to place students into one of a number developmental math courses and provides content for these courses aligned to state or national standards.\n\nIn 2012, LSI began replacing the original, Java-based code of its platforms with HTML5 so that its various platforms are more accessible and can be used on mobile devices. As of 2015, the WorldWideWhiteboard, NetTutor, and the WorldWideTestbank have been re-released in HTML5.\n\nBy May 2014, LSI completed acquisition of the ComFit Online Learning Center. ComFit uses an initial set of questions to try to pinpoint students' difficulties in reading and English, after which students work problems and win \"medals\" as they progress through learning goals. In contrasts to the adaptive placement of MyAcademicWorkshop, which assigns a student to a course and emphasizes science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), ComFit focuses on specific sets of learning goals and emphasizes English and writing objectives.\n\nAlso in 2014, LSI developed an automated tutoring referral system called Refer-Tutor-Report™ (RTR™). RTR accommodates four activities: teachers refer chosen students to tutoring for specified learning objectives, students receive notification of referrals and learn how to reach tutors, tutors find out what learning objectives students need to cover, and administrators garner reports about the tutoring referral process.\n\nUse of LSI platforms is part of a general turn by higher-education institutions to online instruction and student support. The WorldWideWhiteboard went online at Pima Community College and other institutions even before 2000. NetTutor, initially offered with new editions of textbooks in deals with publishing companies, is now available in community college systems and universities like the California Community College System (through the Online Education Initiative), Mississippi's Virtual Community College System, and the Oregon State University eCampus. Many individual college campuses have adopted NetTutor or the WorldWideWhiteboard. At some schools, the collaborative whiteboard is used by campus tutors who conduct online tutoring. In a few cases, NetTutor becomes available automatically during hours when campus online tutoring is unavailable.\n\nLSI, through its content conversion services and conferencing and tutoring tools, became an early partner to textbook publishers. The NetTutor service was adopted as a value-added feature on new textbooks, whereby purchasers of the textbooks gained access to a certain number of hours of online tutoring.\n\nNetTutor has been packaged over the years with textbooks published by John Wiley and Sons, Pearson, Cengage Learning, and Bedford-St. Martin's, an imprint of MacMillan. LSI content authors have created material that appears in the homework systems associated with McGraw-Hill, Cengage Learning, MacMillan, and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and in such tools as MyMathLab and WebAssign.\n\nRecent research compares the performance of college students who use NetTutor to those who do not, and finds evidence that both performance and persistence improve among users of the service. In other cases, schools compared NetTutor favorably to its competitors on ground of price and flexibility of tutoring approach.\n\nA study at Hampton University concluded in 1999 that the whiteboard could effectively support such activities as online office hours.\n\nIn 2004, researchers at Stony Brook University concluded that \"...according to our research NetTutor remains the only workable math-friendly e-learning communication system.\"\n\nA study at Utah Valley University in 2006 pointed out the role of the WorldWideWhiteboard as \"[o]ne of the earliest synchronous models for math tutoring]\").\n\nAn example of live interaction on the WorldWhiteWhiteboard can be found in the online journal on writing instruction .\n\nBy 2007, LSI's NetTutor service had conducted one million online tutorial sessions.\n\nOnline technology is shown to help develop a community of inquiry, which has been shown to improve student participation and results. In particular, schools require students enrolling in online courses to complete inventories of personal study practices, since more commitment is required to complete online courses successfully.\n\nThe relative novelty of online tutoring also raises questions of tutor preparedness to support students on the internet, whether that support is delivered in real time (synchronously) or via exchange of documents (asynchronously)\n\nLSI platforms are used in conjunction with online instruction, delivery of student support in the online and mobile formats, and to aggregate and notify users about events that generate online data. As such, the school needs to perform due-diligence to ascertain that the technology they intend to offer provides essentially the same academic credentials as school educators.\n\nFor instance, while technology is documented to yield academic results at least comparable to those of face-to-face services, schools also need to confirm that use of a service or software complies with existing practices of their faculty. To answer this concern, LSI creates, jointly with the its schools or publishers, a written set of guidelines called \"Rules of Engagement\" (ROE) that can be modified as needed.\n\nThe ROE method and its association to specific teaching practices or pedagogies may be unique to LSI. LSI also provides operational data and user access so that clients can monitor to make sure the ROE guidelines are followed.\n\n"}
{"id": "24184539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184539", "title": "List of universities in Liechtenstein", "text": "List of universities in Liechtenstein\n\nThis article lists universities in Liechtenstein.\n\nAt the moment there are four general higher education institutions in Liechtenstein:\n"}
{"id": "33924047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33924047", "title": "Metropolitan University of Tirana", "text": "Metropolitan University of Tirana\n\nThe Metropolitan University of Tirana (), abbreviated UMT, is a private university located in Tirana, Albania. It was founded in 2011, by a group of architects and engineers as the only Albanian university on information technology, engineering and architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40199503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40199503", "title": "Micro-MBA", "text": "Micro-MBA\n\nThe Micro-MBA is a learner-driven, outcomes-based entrepreneurial course based on classroom session followed by pro-active mentoring meetings. The programme aims to teach entrepreneurs, mostly in developing countries, fundamental business skills thus they can operate their businesses successfully. The term \"Micro-MBA\" refers to the traditional Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme. There is no official definition for the term Micro-MBA. The course programme focuses on teaching theory about subjects as money management, stock control, customer handling, and marketing that can be applied in the daily business activities of the business owners.\n\nThe main aim of the Micro-MBA programme is to provide small business owners with basic business skills, which they can apply in their daily activities to grow and sustain their businesses. Furthermore, it is supposed to empower them to become self-employed.\n\nThe offered the first Micro-MBA programme in 1988 and it was aimed at business owners who had limited access to further education in South Africa. The programme focuses on teaching students basic business skills in class and mentoring sessions after completing the classes at their marketplaces. The main aim of the course has been to enable small business owners to operate their businesses more successfully or to start their own business.\nSince its formation more than 160,000 people have successfully completed the Micro-MBA course, which has been offered by some 250 organisations who have had their trainers trained by Trident Institute. Different surveys have shown that between 67% and 81% of former programme students are still successful with their own business or participating in the labour market 18 months after completing the course. \nThe programme has become a successful education tool in basic economic development in South Africa and has spread to other African and Asian countries. The course has been described by the London Financial Times as \"Brilliantly Simple and Simply Brilliant!\". \nThe founder and CEO of Trident Institute, Cedric Buffler, won the award for Outstanding Social Entrepreneur for 2007 by the Schwab Foundation.\nThe Micro-MBA has not only spread from South Africa to neighbouring African countries (Swaziland, Lesotho, Namibia, Zambia, Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria) but also to Asia and South America. Characteristic of these markets is that poor people with small businesses do not have access to supportive business theory and knowledge.\n\nMost organizations that offer Micro-MBA are founded or sponsored by Nonprofit Organizations. Admissions criteria vary. But mostly it is generally required that participants already have an existing business or a business idea that they want to realize after the course. No specific academic qualifications are required. The most important requirements are high motivation levels and the will to apply the learning to their businesses. Interviews are conducted before choosing applicants to guarantee that they take the opportunity serious. Most of the courses are free of charge but this depends on the programme, course design, and the organization.\n\nMicro-MBA is an outcomes-based, learner-driven course. The classroom learning takes about 35 hours to complete and this is followed by a period of mentoring. This varies, depending on the requirements set by the implementing organisation. The duration of the courses varies from three weeks of classes combined with nine months of mentoring training to three months of classes with additional mentoring training. Facilitators are trained by Trident Institute and are typically business owners or trainers employed by community-based organisations. Mentoring and coaching, in terms of visiting students at their marketplace, after the course, ensures the long-term success of the programme. The course materials are simple as e.g. workbooks and calculators. \nThe course comprises 8 simple workbooks, which are accessible to persons with a grade 6 level of literacy:\n\nWorkbooks and bookkeeping materials are available in three variants, for Traders, Producers and Service `providers. Facilitators are trained to offer all three options. Only organisations that have had their facilitators certificated by ~Trident institute are permitted to purchase training materials.\n\n\nOrganizations offering Micro-MBAs\n\nAccreditation\n\nLiterature\n"}
{"id": "3667560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3667560", "title": "Millennium Mathematics Project", "text": "Millennium Mathematics Project\n\nThe Millennium Mathematics Project (MMP) was set up within the University of Cambridge in England as a joint project between the Faculties of Mathematics and Education in 1999. The MMP aims to support maths education for pupils of all abilities from ages 5 to 19 and promote the development of mathematical skills and understanding, particularly through enrichment and extension activities beyond the school curriculum, and to enhance the mathematical understanding of the general public. The project is currently directed by John Barrow.\n\nThe MMP includes a range of complementary programmes:\n\n\nThe project has also developed a Hands On Maths Roadshow presenting creative methods of exploring mathematics, and in 2004 took on the running of Simon Singh's Enigma schools workshops, exploring maths through cryptography and codebreaking. Both are taken to primary and secondary schools and public venues such as shopping centres across the UK and Ireland. James Grime is the Enigma Project Officer and gives talks in schools and to the general public about the history and mathematics of code breaking - including the demonstration of a genuine World War II Enigma Machine.\n\nIn November 2005, the MMP won the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education.\n"}
{"id": "7043639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7043639", "title": "Pansophism", "text": "Pansophism\n\nPansophism, in older usage often pansophy, is a concept of omniscience, meaning \"all-knowing\". In some monotheistic belief systems, a god is referred as the ultimate knowing spirit. Someone who is \"pansophical\" is someone who claims to have obtained omniscience.\n\nIt also has to do more specifically with pedagogic ideas of universal wisdom (\"pansophia\"), as it occurred in the educational system of universal knowledge proposed by John Amos Comenius, a Czech educator. \"Comenius's second great interest was in furthering the Baconian attempt at the organization of all human knowledge. He became one of the leaders in the encyclopædic or pansophic movement of the seventeenth century\" from the article on Comenius.\n\nThe pansophic principle is one of the important principles of Comenius: that everything must be taught to everyone, as a guiding basis for education, something like universal education (Characteristica universalis).\n\n\"Pansophism\" was a term used generally by Comenius to describe his pedagogical philosophy. His book \"Pansophiae prodromus\" (1639) was published in London with the cooperation of Samuel Hartlib. It was followed by \"Pansophiae diatyposis\". Pansophy in this sense has been defined as ‘full adult comprehension of the divine order of things’. He aimed to set up a Pansophic College, a precursor of later academic institutes He wrote his ideas for this in a tract \"Via lucis\", written 1641/2 in London; he had to leave because the English Civil War was breaking out, and this work was eventually printed in 1668, in Amsterdam.\n\nThe term was not original, having been applied by Bartolomeo Barbaro of Padua in his \"De omni scibili libri quadraginta: seu Prodromus pansophiae\", from the middle of the sixteenth century.\n\nA group within Freemasonry is called Pansophic Freemasonry.\n"}
{"id": "24342055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24342055", "title": "Peeters directive", "text": "Peeters directive\n\nThe Peeters directive (, ), officially Circular BA 97/22 of 16 December 1997 concerning the use of languages in municipal councils of the Dutch language area, is a \"circulaire\" of the Flemish government regulating the use of languages in municipal councils in the Flemish Region (Belgium), where the sole official language is Dutch. The directive is more in particular aimed at the municipalities with language facilities bordering the Brussels Capital-Region. It stipulates that each and every time French-speakers deal with the government, they must explicitly ask for their documents to be in French.\n\nThe circular caused national political commotion and reflects the conflicting perception of language facilities in Dutch and French-speaking public opinion. The non-appointment of three mayors of municipalities with language facilities — refused by the Flemish government because they repeatedly ignored the Peeters (and Keulen) directives — was a highly mediatised issue during the 2007–2008 Belgian government formation. It attracted international attention when the mayors took their case to the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe.\n\nWith the territoriality principle as the basic guideline of Belgian language politics, the language law of 28 June 1932 divided the country in the Dutch-speaking region, the French-speaking region and the German-speaking region. Brussels received a bilingual Dutch-French status. The law further stipulated that municipalities along the language border and around Brussels had to ensure a bilingual service when the minority language population exceeded 30% (so-called language facilities) and that the language of administration would be changed when this \"minority\" exceeded 50%. In order to estimate the number of speakers of each language, a decennial language census was established, of which the results were often contested by the Flemish.\n\nThe consensus in contemporary historical and political literature is that the results of the language census have to be interpreted with caution. The questions were alternatively on \"known\" languages or on the \"usual\" language, the most often spoken. Some considered this to refer to their mother tongue, while for others it referred to the prestigious and ubiquitous language that was French. Moreover, the censuses of 1920 and 1947 were performed in a post-war climate. Dutch, being closely related with German, was discredited due to collaborationism of certain wings of the Flemish Movement with the German occupation. French on the other hand enjoyed the status of the language of victory. Finally, given that the results had political consequences, inviting for manipulation in some cases, the census had more of a referendum on the language status of the municipality than of a sociological inquiry. In the 1947 census, more than 30% declared to speak French \"exclusively or most frequently\" in Wemmel, Kraainem, Drogenbos and Linkebeek, which meant that the French-speaking population of these municipalities received language facilities, whereby citizens can request to communicate with the municipal services in the language of their choice, while the official language remained the same.\n\nThe language laws of 1962-63, constitutionally entrenched in 1970, abolished the language census and fixed the language border between the language areas. All Belgian municipalities belong to one of these territories. Some municipalities went from one region to another, while others retained or were given a system of language facilities. Wezembeek-Oppem and Sint-Genesius-Rode became municipalities with language facilities. The last census in 1947 showed that the French minority in these towns was 18% and 16% respectively, but that 35% and 27% spoke French most frequently.\n\nAccording to art. 7 of the 1966 law on the use of languages in the administration, the six municipalities situated in the Brussels periphery, namely Drogenbos, Kraainem, Linkebeek, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Wemmel and Wezembeek-Oppem, enjoy a \"special treatment\" and are called \"rim municipalities\". As part of the wider Frenchification of Brussels and a process of urbanisation, these formerly Dutch-speaking municipalities became majority French-speaking in the second half of the 20th century. This phenomenon, known in Flanders as the \"oil slick\", is, together with the future of Brussels, one of the most controversial topics in all of Belgian politics. All other municipalities with facilities, except for those in the German language area, plus Malmedy and Waimes, are grouped together as \"language border municipalities\" (art. 8).\n\nAccording to a 1986 ruling of the Constitutional Court, the division in language regions entails \"a restriction on the ability of legislators to regulate the use of languages and so forms the constitutional guarantee of the priority of the language of the unilingual area\". The 1988 revision of the constitution (art. 129, §1) confirms that the parliaments of the French Community and the Flemish Community determine through decrees, each for their respective territory, the use of languages in administrative matters, the education system, for social contacts between the employer and his employees, and for official documents in business. However, the constitution (art. 129, §2) makes an exception for municipalities with language facilities, stating that in those municipalities the law on the use of languages for situations listed in §1 can only be changed by a law adopted by a majority in both language groups.\n\nThe Standing Commission for Linguistic Supervision is a federal institution responsible for collecting and reporting language complaints. It can give its opinion to the responsible public authorities, but its opinions are not binding. In its recommendations 26.125A, 26.033 and 23.062 (all published in 1994), the agency argued that language facilities should not lead to a generalised system of bilingualism of public services in which both languages would hold equal status. Only the regional governments can provide a supreme binding political interpretation for the language laws and the application of language facilities, which can only be annulled by the Council of State.\n\nAs a general rule, the federal government communicates with citizens in the language of the region, not in their individual language. Only in municipalities with facilities, another language can be used when so requested.\n\nThe Peeters directive's recommendations for municipalities with language facilities bordering the Brussels Capital-Region and the language border, where to some extent the French-speaking population has the right to relate with the local and federal administration in French, have triggered political commotion. It stipulates these facilities, being \"an exception to the rule of unilingualism of the official language areas\", should be interpreted \"strictly\", considering their \"exceptional\" and \"temporary\" character.\n\nThe directive argues language facilities have an \"integrative function\", meaning that, \"per definition\", \"for the concerned individual\", they have an \"extinguishing character\". It reads further: \"The interpretation of language facilities has to take into account the possibility that a French-speaking inhabitant, who previously made use of these facilities, meanwhile knows the language of the region well enough and consequently no longer wishes to invoke the facilities\". In this sense, facilities are temporary in character, and because they are temporary, they have to be applied \"restrictively\", implying that French-speakers have to make a new request each and every time they wish to use French in official affairs. The directive claims the \"spirit in which the language laws of 1962-63 were established\" is reflected in the end report of the Harmel Centre:\n\nAccording to the directive, this quote clearly shows that the language facilities were intended to ease the transition of the minority language inhabitants to the Community to which their municipality would belong from that moment onwards.\n\nThe most important rule introduced by the Peeters directive is that all official documents have to be sent to the citizens in Dutch. Afterwards, French-speakers can request a French translation for each separate document, on their own initiative. As for the application of documents in the town hall, all these documents have to be issued in Dutch in the municipalities along the language border, after which a translation can be requested. For the \"rim municipalities\" (those bordering Brussels), a French translation can be requested beforehand. Such a restrictive meaning went against the existing practice, whereby citizens had to declare their preferred language only once.\n\nAnother issue is that the Peeters directive stipulates that the language of administration and local public services should at all times be Dutch, the only official language of the concerned municipalities. It is obligatory to speak Dutch in meetings of the municipal council and the Board of Mayor and Aldermen.\n\nOn the initiative of the municipality of Linkebeek, the Constitutional Court of Belgium was asked for an opinion on the constitutionality of article 23 of the law of 18 July 1966 that stipulates that the internal language of administration in the rim municipalities has to be Dutch. In its ruling 98/26 of 10 March 1998, the Court ruled this was not in violation with articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution of Belgium and that the mayor and aldermen do indeed not have the right to speak in another language than Dutch during council meetings. The Court further specified that the language facilities do not alter the principle of Dutch unilingualism of the concerned municipalities and that the Constitution guarantees the primacy of Dutch.\n\nOn 27 February 1998, the French Community of Belgium and the Walloon Region, together with a French-speaking inhabitant of one of the concerned rim municipalities, challenged the legitimacy of the directive before the Council of State. On 27 March 2001, the court argued that two first plaintiffs did not have any powers within the territory of the Flemish Region, and dismissed the appeal on those grounds. The case of the French-speaking inhabitant was forwarded to a Dutch-speaking chamber (since the other two plaintiffs were removed from the case, the competetent chamber changed) and debates were reopened. On 25 February 1998, the municipality of Kraainem (in the periphery of Brussels, with a French-speaking majority) had initiated another case, also requesting annulment of the directive. On 28 May, Wemmel and Wezembeek-Oppem filed for intervention, joined by Drogenbos on 28 July 2008. The municipalities (and a number of French-speaking inhabitants) claimed that the directive introduced new rules, and thus conflicted with art. 129, §2 of the Constitution.\n\nOn 23 December 2004, the Council of State decided not to nullify the directive. It argued that although the directive may have changed existing practice, it did not change the legal situation and was only to reverse the habit of municipal administrations of addressing a citizen in French without an explicit repeated request, and that the directive did not impede the use of French when wished. The court followed ruling 98/26 of the Constitutional Court, stating that the interpretation of the language law had to match the priority of Dutch; that the interpretation of the language facilities put forward by the plaintiffs did thus not apply, but would on the contrary lead to \"a factual state of bilinguism whereby the language preference would even be stocked in files\".\n\nThe Court's decision was received with derision by the French-speaking political parties. In a reaction of 13 January 2005, the Front Démocratique des Francophones (FDF) wrote:\n\nOn 25 January 2005, the parliament of the French Community of Belgium ratified a \"Resolution aimed to reaffirm the unswerving link between the French Community and the French-speakers of the [Brussels] periphery and Voeren\":\n\nOn 13 October 2003, the municipality of Wezembeek-Oppem summoned the Flemish Region for its decision of 13 August 2003 to nullify its decision of 21 January 2001 to send out invitation letters for the 2003 federal elections in French to those who it assumed were French-speaking. According to the Peeters directive, these had to be issued in Dutch first after which a French translation could be requested. On 19 July 2008, the Council of State referred back to its rulings of 23 December 2004 and ruled that the Peeters directive was the only correct interpretation of the language law concerning the six rim municipalities. It argued only the Flemish government was in place of interpreting the law, that the interpretation of the Peeters directive was in conformity with the general principles of the law and that no other interpretation held legal authority. The Court refuted the argument of the plaintiff that the advice of the Standing Commission for Linguistic Supervision (to stock the language preference of citizens and directly addressing them in that language, which was explicitly forbidden by the Keulen directive) should be followed, arguing the Commission had no legal authority. The Court repeated that the interpretation put forward by the municipality of Wezembeek-Oppem would in practice result in a situation of bilingualism that would be in contradiction with the priority of Dutch and the fundamental Dutch unilingualism of these municipalities.\n\nOn 16 December 1997 the directive was sent to the governors of the five Flemish provinces by the then Flemish minister of Internal Affairs, Leo Peeters. It was amended by the Martens directive of 5 May 1998 that prescribed a similar arrangement for the social services. Both directives were reconfirmed and specified by the Keulen directive of 8 July 2005, which was not well received by the French-speaking press and politicians.\n\nThe municipal councils of Sint-Genesius-Rode, Linkebeek, Wezembeek-Oppem and Kraainem sent out convocation letters for the 2006 provincial and municipal elections in French to the citizens of which they assumed were French-speaking. This was contrary to the Peeters directive ordering municipalities to send out documents in Dutch first, after which a French translation can be requested and the Keulen directive, prohibiting the stocking of language preference. In Flanders (contrary to Wallonia), mayors are not directly elected. Instead, after the elections, the town council nominates a candidate-mayor, who then has to be appointed by the Flemish Minister of the Interior. Marino Keulen, then minister, delayed the appointment of the four proposed mayors because they did not apply language legislation. Three of the four mayors repeated their actions for the 2007 federal elections. On 14 November 2007, the appointment of Arnold d'Oreye de Lantremange (FDF, for Kraainem), François van Hoobrouck d'Aspre (UF, for Wezembeek-Oppem) and Damien Thiéry (FDF, for Linkebeek) was officially rejected. The mayor of Sint-Genesius-Rode, Myriam Delacroix-Rolin (CDH), was appointed since she applied the language laws.\n\nInstead of challenging their non-appointment before the Council of State, the three mayors chose to bring it before the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe. On 13 and 14 May 2008, the Congress sent a fact-finding mission to Belgium to look into the situation. The delegation was led by a Frenchman and consisted further of a Serbian representative, a German expert, and two other French members of the Congress. The Council of Europe can make recommendations to its 47 member states, but it cannot impose sanctions on them for non-compliance and its conclusions are not legally binding. The mayors allowed that French was spoken during council meetings and refused to apply the recommendations of the Flemish directives. This went against the stipulations of language laws and lead to their non-appointment. Michel Guégan, president of the delegation, found that the sanction of non-appointment was disproportionate to the infractions. According to him, it hindered the normal functioning of the municipality. He also questioned why the regional authority had to appoint \"democratically elected mayors\". He also said that in towns with French-speaking majorities, participation of the inhabitants in local politics is complicated when the official language of administration is Dutch. The decisions of the delegation were considered ridiculous in Flanders. The Flemish Interior Minister, Marino Keulen, said they were \"absurd\" because they did not take into account the language legislation, the grounds on which their nomination was refused. In the European Parliament, Frieda Brepoels (N-VA) decounced \"the arrogance and thoughtlessness\" of the delegation. The Flemish government ignored the resolutions of the fact-finding mission, Keulen saying the acting mayors should take their case to the Council of State rather than to the Council of Europe. On 2 December 2008, the Congress voting a resolution on the issue. Of all 46 members entitled to vote, 16 were present: 14 voted in favour, the only Flemish representative voted against, and the only Dutch member abstained from voting. In the adopted resolution, the Congress urged the Belgian state to appoint the mayors and to review the language legislation in the concerned municipalities.\n\nMinister Keulen \"took notice\" of the Congress's recommendations but stressed that only the Council of State was competent to undo his decision. For the 2009 regional elections, the three acting mayors sent out French documents again. Sint-Genesius-Rode sent out convocation letters in Dutch to all citizens, accompanied by a French translation for those considered to be French-speaking.\n\nAs of February 2010, the three acting mayors are still not appointed and the Peeters, Martens and Keulen directives are still in force.\n"}
{"id": "2986570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2986570", "title": "Playware", "text": "Playware\n\nPlayware is hardware and software that aims at producing play and playful experiences among its users.\n\nExamples of playware products are numerous with computer games as the most widespread and successful, but it is a fast-growing industry utilizing pervasive and ambient technology to create new kinds of play equipment and toys, which can be labelled “playware”. \n\nThe term \"playware\" was coined by Carsten Jessen, Associate Professor at the Technical University of Denmark and the Danish School of Education, Aarhus University, and Henrik Hautop Lund, a professor at the Technical University of Denmark. They first defined the term in their paper \"Playware – Intelligent technology for children’s play\" to describe both a new area of research and a product type.\n\nJessen and Lund argue that the playware is not so much the result of the appearance of digital technology as it is the result of many children (and adults) in modern society not having the necessary knowledge and skills needed to initiate games and play. Earlier generations of children inherited games and learned play skills from older peers when participating in cross-age activities, for instance on the street or in the backyard. This is not to the same extent the case today and according to Jessen and Lund this has led to the need for inspiration from playware. \n\nSeveral international playware workshops and symposiums were given and held amongst leading playware and human-robot interaction researchers, such as the keynote talk on modular playware at the 18th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication, and the Playware Summit in Copenhagen 2010, where amongst others Y. Sankai, H. Ishiguro, C. Breazeal, T. Fukuda, T. Shibata, K. Dautenhahn, P. Marti, N. Pares, L. Pagliarini, H. Hautop Lund gathered to set a new research agenda for future research and development in playware ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1147690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147690", "title": "Residency (medicine)", "text": "Residency (medicine)\n\nResidency or postgraduate training is a stage of graduate medical education. It refers to a qualified physician, podiatrist, or dentist (one who holds the degree of MD, DPM, DDS, DMD, DO or MB; BS, MBChB, or BMed, BDS,\nBDent) who practises medicine, usually in a hospital or clinic, under the direct or indirect supervision of a senior clinician registered in that specialty such as an attending physician or consultant. In many jurisdictions, successful completion of such training is a requirement in order to obtain an unrestricted license to practise medicine, and in particular a license to practise a chosen specialty. An individual engaged in such training may be referred to as a resident, house officer, registrar or trainee depending on the jurisdiction. Residency training may be followed by fellowship or sub-specialty training.\n\nWhereas medical school teaches physicians a broad range of medical knowledge, basic clinical skills, and supervised experience practicing medicine in a variety of fields, medical residency gives in-depth training within a specific branch of medicine.\n\nA \"resident physician\" is more commonly referred to as a \"resident\", \"senior house officer\" (in Commonwealth countries), or alternatively as a \"senior resident medical officer\" or \"house officer\". Residents have graduated from an accredited medical school and hold a medical degree (MD, DO, MBBS, MBChB). Residents are, collectively, the \"house staff\" of a hospital. This term comes from the fact that resident physicians traditionally spend the majority of their training \"in house,\" i.e., the hospital. \n\nDuration of residencies can range from three years to seven years, depending upon the program and specialty. A year in residency begins between late June and early July depending on the individual program, and ends one calendar year later. In the United States, the first year of residency is known as an internship with those physicians being termed \"interns.\" Depending on the number of years a specialty requires, the term \"junior resident\" may refer to residents that have not completed half their residency. \"Senior residents\" are residents in their final year of residency, although this can vary. Some residency programs refer to residents in their final year as \"chief residents\" (typically in surgical branches). Alternatively, a \"chief resident\" may describe a resident who has been selected to extend his or her residency by one year and organize the activities and training of the other residents (typically in internal medicine and pediatrics). \n\nIf a physician finishes a residency and decides to further his or her education in a fellowship, he or she is referred to as a \"fellow.\" Physicians who have fully completed their training in a particular field are referred to as \"attending physicians,\" or \"consultants\" (in Commonwealth countries). However, the above nomenclature applies only in educational institutes in which the period of training is specified in advance. In privately owned, non-training hospitals, in certain countries, the above terminology may reflect the level of responsibility held by a physician rather than their level of education.\n\nResidency as an opportunity for advanced training in a medical or surgical specialty evolved in the late 19th century from brief and informal programs for extra training in a special area of interest. The first formal residency programs were established by Sir William Osler and William Stewart Halsted at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Residencies elsewhere then became formalized and institutionalized for the principal specialties in the early 20th century. But even mid-century, residency was not seen as necessary for general practice and only a minority of primary care physicians participated. By the end of the 20th century in North America though, very few new doctors went directly from medical school into independent, unsupervised medical practice, and more state and provincial governments began requiring one or more years of postgraduate training for medical licensure.\n\nResidencies are traditionally hospital-based, and in the middle of the twentieth century, residents would often live (or \"reside\") in hospital-supplied housing. \"Call\" (night duty in the hospital) was sometimes as frequent as every second or third night for up to three years. Pay was minimal beyond room, board, and laundry services. It was assumed that most young men and women training as physicians had few obligations outside of medical training at that stage of their careers.\n\nThe first year of practical patient-care-oriented training after medical school has long been termed \"internship.\" Even as late as the middle of the twentieth century, most physicians went into primary care practice after a year of internship. Residencies were separate from internship, often served at different hospitals, and only a minority of physicians did residencies.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the residency (Dari, \"تخصص\") consists of a three to seven years of practical and research activities in the field selected by the candidate. The graduate medical students do not need to complete the residency because they study medicine in six years (three years for clinical subjects, three years clinical subjects in hospital) and one-year internship and they graduate as general practitioner. Most of students do not complete residency because it is too competitive.\n\nIn Argentina, the residency (Spanish, \"residencia\") consists of a three to four years of practical and research activities in the field selected by both the candidate and already graduated medical practitioners. Specialized fields such as neurosurgery or cardio-thoracic surgery require longer training. Through these years, consisting of internships, social services, and occasional research, the resident is classified according to their residency year as an R1, R2, R3 or R4. After the last year, the \"R3 or R4 Resident\" obtains the specialty (\"especialidad\") in the selected field of medicine.\n\nIn Australia, specialist training is undertaken as a registrar. Entry into a specialist training program occurs after completing 1 year as an intern (post-graduate year 1 or \"PGY1\"), then at least 1 year as a resident (PGY2 onwards). Training lengths can range from 3 years for general practice to 7 years for paediatric surgery.\n\nIn Colombia, fully licensed physicians are eligible to compete for seats in residency programs. To be fully licensed, one must first finish a medical training program that usually lasts five to six years (varies between universities), followed by one year of medical and surgical internship. During this internship a national medical qualification exam is required, and, in many cases, an additional year of unsupervised medical practice as a social service physician. Applications are made individually program by program, and are followed by a postgraduate medical qualification exam. The scores during medical studies, university of medical training, curriculum vitae, and, in individual cases, recommendations are also evaluated. The acceptance rate into residencies is very low (~1–5% of applicants in public university programs), physician-resident positions do not have salaries, and the tuition fees reach or surpass US$10,000 per year in private universities, and $2,000 in public universities. For the reasons mentioned above, many physicians travel abroad (mainly to Argentina, Brazil, Spain and the United States) to seek postgraduate medical training. The duration of the programs varies between three and six years. In public universities, and some private universities, it is also required to write and defend a medical thesis before receiving a specialist degree.\n\nIn France, students attending clinical practice are known as \"externes\" and newly qualified practitioners training in hospitals are known as \"internes\". The residency, called \"Internat\", lasts from three to six years and follows a competitive national ranking examination. It is customary to delay submission of a thesis. As in most other European countries, many years of practice at a junior level may follow.\nFrench residents are often called \"doctor\" during their residency. Literally speaking, they are still students and become M.D. only at the end of their residency and after submitting and defending a thesis before a jury.\n\nIn Greece, licensed physicians are eligible to apply for a position in a residency program. To be a licensed physician, one must finish a medical training program which in Greece lasts for six years. A one-year obligatory rural medical service (internship) is necessary to complete the residency training. Applications are made individually in the prefecture where the hospital is located, and the applicants are positioned on first-come, first-served basis. The salary of a physician-resident is 10,000 euro per year. The duration of the residency programs varies between three and seven years.\n\nIn Mexico physicians need to take the ENARM (National Test for Aspirants to Medical Residency) (Spanish, \"Examen Nacional de Aspirantes a Residencias Medicas\") in order to have a chance for a medical residency in the field he or she wishes to specialize. The physician is allowed to apply to only one speciality each year. Some 35,000 physicians apply and only 8000 are selected. The selected physicians bring their certificate of approval to the hospital that they wish to apply (Almost all the hospitals for medical residency are from government based institutions). The certificate is valid only once per year and if the resident decides to drop residency and try to enter to a different speciality she will need to take the test one more time (no limit of attempts). All the hosting hospitals are affiliated to a public/private university and this institution is the responsible to give the degree of \"specialist\". This degree is unique but equivalent to the MD used in the UK and India. In order to graduate, the trainee is required to present a thesis project and defend it.\n\nThe length of the residencies is very similar to the American system. The residents are divided per year (R1, R2, R3, etc.). After finishing the trainee may decide if he wants to subspecialize (equivalency to fellowship) and the usual length of sub-specialty training ranges from two to four years. In Mexico the term \"fellow\" is not used.\n\nThe residents are paid by the hosting hospital, about US$1000–$1100 (paid in Mexican pesos). Foreign physicians do not get paid and indeed are required to pay an annual fee of $1000 to the university institution that the hospital is affiliated with. \nAll the specialties in Mexico are board certified and some of them have a written and an oral component, making these boards ones of the most competitives in Latin America.\n\nIn Pakistan, after completing MBBS degree and further completing one year house job, doctors can enroll in two types of postgraduate residency programs. First is MS/MD program run by various medical universities throughout the country. It is a 4–5-year program depending upon the specialty. Second is fellowship program which is called Fellow of College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan (FCPS) by the College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan (CPSP). It is also a 4–5-year program depending upon the specialty.\n\nThere are also post-fellowship programs offered by the College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan as a second fellowship in sub specialties.\n\nAll Spanish medical degree holders need to pass a competitive national exam (named 'MIR') in order to access the specialty training program. This exam gives them the opportunity to choose both the specialty and the hospital where they will train, among the hospitals in the Spanish Healthcare Hospital Network. Currently, medical specialties last from 4 to 5 years.\n\nThere are plans to change the training program system in a similar way the UK does. There have been some talks between Ministry of Health, the Medical College of Physicians and the Medical Student Association but it is not clear how this change process is going to be.\n\nA physician practicing in Sweden may apply to a specialist training program () after being licensed as a Doctor of Medicine by The National Board of Health and Welfare. To obtain a license through the Swedish education system a candidate must go through several steps. First the candidate must successfully finish a five-and-a-half-year undergraduate program, made up of two years of pre-clinical studies and three and a half years of clinical postings, at one of Sweden's seven medical schools—Uppsala University, Lund University, The Karolinska Institute, The University of Gothenburg, Umeå University, or Örebro University—after which a degree of Master of Science in Medicine () is awarded. The degree makes the physician applicable for an internship () ranging between 18–24 months, depending on the place of employment.\n\nThe internship is regulated by the National Board of Health and Welfare and regardless of place of employment it is made up of four main postings with a minimum of nine months divided between internal medicine and surgery—with no less than three months in each posting—three months in psychiatry, and six months in general practice. It is customary for many hospitals to post interns for an equal amount of time in surgery and internal medicine (e.g. six months in each of the two). An intern is expected to care for patients with a certain degree of independence but is under the supervision of more senior physicians who may or may not be on location.\n\nDuring each clinical posting the intern is evaluated by senior colleagues and is, if deemed having skills corresponding to the goals set forth by The National Board of Health and Welfare, passed individually on all four postings and may go on to take a written exam in multiple-choice format on common case presentations in surgery, internal medicine, psychiatry, and general practice.\n\nAfter passing all four main postings of the internship and the written exam, the physician may apply to The National Board of Health and Welfare to be licensed as a Doctor of Medicine. Upon application the physician has to pay a licensing fee of SEK 2,300—approximately equivalent to EUR 220 or USD 270, as per exchange rates on 24 April 2018—out of pocket, as it is not considered to be an expense directly related to medical school and thus is not covered by the state.\n\nPhysicians who have a foreign medical degree may apply for a license through different paths, depending on whether they are licensed in another EU or EEA country or not.\n\nThe Swedish medical specialty system is, as of 2015, made up of three different types of specialties; base specialties, subspecialties, and add-on specialties. Every physician wishing to specialize starts by training in a base specialty and can thereafter go on to train in a subspecialty specific to their base specialty. Add-on specialties also require previous training in a base specialty and/or subspecialty but are less specific in that they, unlike subspecialties, can be entered into through several different previous specialties.\n\nFurthermore, the base specialties are grouped into eight classes—pediatric specialties, imaging and functional medicine specialties, independent base specialties, internal medicine specialties, surgical specialties, laboratory specialties, neurological specialties, and psychiatric specialties.\n\nIt is a requirement that all base specialty training programs are at least five years in length. Common reasons for base specialty training to take longer than five years is paternity or maternity leave and/or simultaneous PhD studies.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of allergology a physician must first be a specialist in general practice, occupational and environmental medicine, pediatric allergology, endocrinology and diabetology, geriatrics, hematology, dermatology and venerology, internal medicine, cardiology, clinical immunology and transfusion medicine, pulmonology, medical gastroenterology and hepatology, nephrology, and/or otorhinolaryngology.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of occupational medicine a physician must first be a specialist in one of the pediatric class specialties, one of the independent class specialties (excluding clinical pharmacology, clinical genetics, forensic medicine, and social medicine), one of the internal medicine class specialties, one of the neurological class specialties (excluding clinical neurophysiology), and/or one of the psychiatric class specialties.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of addiction medicine a physician must first be a specialist in pediatric psychiatry, and/or psychiatry.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of gynecologic oncology a physician must first be a specialist in obstetrics and gynecology and/or oncology.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of nuclear medicine a physician must first be a specialist in clinical physiology, oncology, and/or radiology.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of palliative medicine a physician must first be a specialist in one of the pediatric class specialties, one of the independent class specialties (excluding occupational and environmental medicine, clinical pharmacology, clinical genetics, forensic medicine, and social medicine), one of the internal medicine class specialties, one of the surgical class specialties, one of the neurological class specialties (excluding clinical neurophysiology), and/or one of the psychiatric class specialties.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of school health a physician must first be a specialist in general practice, pediatrics, and/or pediatric psychiatry.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of pain medicine a physician must first be a specialist in one of the pediatric class specialties, one of the independent class specialties (excluding clinical pharmacology, clinical genetics, forensic medicine, and social medicine), one of the internal medicine class specialties, one of the surgical class specialties, one of the neurological class specialties (excluding clinical neurophysiology), and/or one of the psychiatric class specialties.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of infection control a physician must first be a specialist in infectious diseases and/or clinical microbiology.\n\nTo train in the add-on specialty of geriatric psychiatry a physician must first be a specialist in geriatrics and/or psychiatry.\n\nThere is no centralized selection process for internship or residency positions. The application process is more similar to that of other jobs on the market—i.e. application via cover letter and curriculum vitae. Both types of positions are however usually publicly advertised and many hospitals have nearly synchronous recruitment processes once or twice per year—mainly depending on hospital size—for their internship positions.\n\nApart from the requirement that candidates are graduates from approved medical programs and, in the case of residency, licensed as medical doctors, there are no specific criteria an employer has to consider in hiring for an internship or residency position. This system for recruiting has been criticized by The Swedish Medical Association for lacking transparency as well as for delaying time to specialist certification of physicians.\n\nThere are nevertheless factors that most employers will consider, the most important being how long a doctor has been in active practice. After completing nine out of a total of eleven semesters of medical school a student may work as a physician on a temporary basis—e.g. during summer breaks from university. This rule enables medical graduates to start working as physicians upon graduating from university without yet being licensed, as a way of building experience to be able to eventually be hired into an internship. According to a 2017 survey by The Swedish Medical Association, interns in the country as a whole had worked an average of 10.3 months as physicians before starting their internships, ranging from an average of 5.1 months for interns in the Dalarna region to an average of 19.8 months for interns in the Stockholm region.\n\nIn recruitment for residency positions less emphasis is often placed on the number of months a candidate has worked after finishing their internship, but it is common for physicians to work for some time in between internship and residency, much in the same way as between medical school and internship.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, house officer posts used to be optional for those going into general practice, but almost essential for progress in hospital medicine. The Medical Act of 1956 made satisfactory completion of one year as house officer necessary to progress from provisional to full registration as a medical practitioner. The term \"intern\" was not used by the medical profession, but the general public were introduced to it by the US television series about \"Dr Kildare.\" They were usually called \" housemen\" but the term resident was also used unofficially. However, in some hospitals the \"resident medical officer\" (RMO) (or \"resident surgical officer\" etc.) was the most senior of the live-in medical staff of that specialty.\n\nThe pre-registration house officer posts lasted six months, and it was necessary to complete one surgical and one medical post. Obstetrics could be substituted for either. In principle, general practice in a \"Health Centre\" was also allowed, but this was almost unheard of. The posts did not have to be in general medicine: some teaching hospitals had very specialised posts at this level, so it was possible for a new graduate to do neurology plus neurosurgery or orthopaedics plus rheumatology, for one year before having to go onto more broadly based work. The pre-registration posts were nominally supervised by the General Medical Council, which in practice delegated the task to the medical schools, who left it to the consultant medical staff. The educational value of these posts varied enormously.\n\nOn call work in the early days was full-time, with frequent night shifts and weekends on call. One night in two was common, and later one night in three. This meant weekends on call started at 9 am on Friday and ended at 5 pm on Monday (80 hours). Less acute specialties such as dermatology could have juniors permanently on call. The European Union's controversial Working Time Directive conflicted with this: at first the UK negotiated an opt-out for some years, but working hours needed reform. On call time was unpaid until 1975 (the year of the house officers' one-day strike), and for a year or two depended on certification by the consultant in charge – a number of them refused to sign. On call time was at first paid at 30% of the standard rate. Before paid on call was introduced, there would be several house officers \"in the house\" at any one time and the \"second on call\" house officer could go out, provided they kept the hospital informed of their telephone number at all times.\n\nA \"pre-registration house officer\" would go on to work as a \"senior house officer\" for at least one year before seeking a registrar post. SHO posts could last six months to a year, and junior doctors often had to travel around the country to attend interviews and move house every six months while constructing their own training scheme for general practice or hospital specialisation. Locum posts could be much shorter. Organised schemes were a later development, and do-it-yourself training rotations became rare in the 1990s. Outpatients were not usually a junior house officer's responsibility, but such clinics formed a large part of the workload of more senior trainees, often with little real supervision.\n\nRegistrar posts lasted one or two years, and sometimes much longer outside an academic setting. It was common to move from one registrar post to another. Fields such as psychiatry and radiology used to be entered at the registrar stage, but the other registrars would usually have passed part one of a higher qualification, such as a Royal College membership or fellowship before entering that grade. Part two (the complete qualification) was necessary before obtaining a senior registrar post, usually linked to a medical school, but many left hospital practice at this stage rather than wait years to progress to a consultant post.\n\nMost British clinical diplomas (requiring one or two years' experience) and membership or fellowship exams were not tied to particular training grades, though the length of training and nature of experience might be specified. Participation in an approved training scheme was required by some of the royal colleges. The sub-specialty exams in surgery, now for Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons, were originally limited to senior registrars. These rules prevented many of those in non-training grades from qualifying to progress.\n\nOnce a Senior Registrar, depending on specialty, it could take anything from one to six years to go onto a permanent consultant and/or senior lecturer appointment. It might be necessary to obtain an MD or ChM degree and to have substantial published research. Transfer to general practice or a less favoured specialty could be made at any stage along this pathway: Lord Moran famously referred to general practitioners as those who had \"fallen off the ladder.\"\n\nThere are also permanent non-training posts at sub-consultant level: previously senior hospital medical officer and medical assistant (both obsolete) and now staff grade, specialty doctor and associate specialist. The regulations do not call for much experience or any higher qualifications, but in practice both are common, and these grades have high proportions of overseas graduates, ethnic minorities and women.\n\nResearch fellows and PhD candidates are often clinical assistants, but a few were senior or specialist registrars. A large number of \"Trust Grade\" posts have been created by the new NHS trusts for the sake of the routine work, and many juniors have to spend time in these posts before moving between the new training grades, although no educational or training credit is given for them. Holders of these posts may work at various levels, sharing duties with a junior or middle grade practitioner or with a consultant.\n\nThe structure of medical training was reformed in 2005 when the Modernising Medical Careers (MMC) reform programme was instituted. House officers and the first year of senior house officer jobs were replaced by a compulsory two-year foundation training programme, followed by competitive entry into a formal specialty-based training programme. Registrar and Senior Registrar grades had been merged in 1995/6 as the specialist registrar (SpR) grade (entered after a longer period as a senior house officer, after obtaining a higher qualification, and lasting up to six years), with regular local assessments panels playing a major role. Following MMC these posts were replaced by StRs, who may be in post up to eight years, depending on the field.\n\nThe structure of the training programmes vary with specialty but there are five broad categories:\n\nThe first four categories all run on a similar structure: the Trainee first completes a two-year structured and broad-based core training programme in that field (such as core medical training) which makes them eligibile for competitive entry into an associated specialty training scheme (e.g. gastroenterology if core medical training has been completed). The Core training years are referred to as CT1 and CT2, and the specialist years are ST3 onwards until completing training. Core training and the first year or two of speciality training are equivalent to the old Senior House Officer jobs.\n\nIt is customary for trainees in these areas to sit their Membership examinations (such as the Royal College of Physicians (MRCP), or the Royal College of Surgeons (MRCS)) in order to progress and compete for designated sub-specialty training programmes that attract a national training number as specialty training year 3 (ST3) and beyond – up to ST 9 depending on the particular training specialty.\n\nIn the 5th category, the trainee immediately starts specialty training (ST1 instead of CT1) progressing up to Consultant level without break or further competitive application process (run-through training). Most of the run-through schemes are in stand-alone specialties (such as radiology, public health or histopathology), but there are also a few traditionally surgical specialities which can be entered directly without completing core surgical training – neurosurgery, obstetrics & gynaecology and ophthalmology. The length of this training varies, for example general practice is 3 years while radiology is 5 years.\n\nThe UK grade equivalent of a US fellow in medical/surgical sub-specialties is the specialty registrar (ST3–ST9) grade of sub-specialty training, but note that while US fellowship programmes are generally 2–3 years in duration after completing the residency, UK trainees spend 4–7 years. This generally includes service provision in the main specialty; this discrepancy lies in the competing demands of NHS service provision and UK postgraduate training stipulating that even specialist registrars must be able to accommodate the general acute medical take—almost equivalent to what dedicated attending internists perform in the United States (they still remain minimally supervised for these duties).\n\nIn some states of the United States, physicians may usually obtain a general medical license to practice medicine without supervision after completing one year of internship in the state of their license. Many residents have medical licenses and do legally practice medicine without supervision (\"moonlight\") in settings such as urgent care centers and rural hospitals. However, in most residency-related settings, residents are supervised by attending physicians who must approve of their decision-making.\n\nDifferent specialties differ in length of training, competitiveness-size, and options. Programs range from three years for family medicine to 7 years for neurosurgery. This time is not including a potential fellowship which can be completed after residency to further sub-specialize. In 2015 there were almost 7000 positions for internal medicine compared to around 400 positions for dermatology. Finally in regards to options, specialties can range from having over 400 training programs nationally (internal medicine) to just 26 programs for integrated thoracic surgery. \n\nHere is a partial list of some medical specialties:\n\n\nThere are many factors that can go into what makes an applicant more or less competitive. According to a survey of residency program directors by the NRMP in 2012, the following three factors were mentioned by directors over 71% of the time as having the most impact:\n\nBetween 50% and 71% also mentioned other factors such as core clerkship grades/ Step 2 score/ specialty clerkship grades/ allopathic medical school attendance/ MSPE-dean's letter.\n\nThese factors often come as a surprise to many students in the preclinical years, who often work very hard to get great grades, but do not realize that only 45% of directors cite basic science performance as an important measure.\n\nApplicants begin the application process with ERAS (regardless of their matching program) at the beginning of their fourth and final year in medical school.\n\nAt this point, students choose specific residency programs to apply for that often specifies both specialty and hospital system, sometimes even subtracks (e.g. Internal Medicine Residency Categorical Program at Mass General or San Francisco General Primary Care Track).\n\nAfter they apply to programs, programs review applications and invite selected candidates for interviews held between October and February. As of 2016, schools can view applications starting 1 Oct.\n\nThe interview process involves separate interviews at hospitals around the country. Frequently, the individual applicant pays for travel and lodging expenses, but some programs may subsidize applicants' expenses. Generally, an interview begins with a dinner the night before in a relaxed, \"meet-and-greet\" setting with current residents and/or staff. Formal interviews with attendings and senior residents are then held the next day, and the applicant tours the program's facilities.\n\nInterview questions are primarily related to the applicant's interest in the program and specialty. The purpose of these tasks is to force an applicant into a pressured setting and less to test his or her specific skills.\n\nTo defray the cost of residency interviews, social networking sites have been devised to allow applicants with common interview dates to share travel expenses. Nonetheless, additional loans are often required for \"residency and relocation\".\n\nInternational medical students may participate in a residency program within the United States as well but only after completing a program set forth by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG). Through its program of certification, the ECFMG assesses the readiness of international medical graduates to enter residency or fellowship programs in the United States that are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). The ECFMG does not have jurisdiction over Canadian M.D. programs, which the relevant authorities consider to be fully equivalent to U.S. medical schools. In turn, this means that Canadian M.D. graduates, if they can obtain the required visas (or are already U.S. citizens or permanent residents), can participate in U.S. residency programs on the same footing as U.S. graduates.\n\nAccess to graduate medical training programs such as residencies is a competitive process known as \"the Match.\" After the interview period is over, students submit a \"rank-order list\" to a centralized matching service that depends on the residency program they are applying for:\n\n\nSimilarly, residency programs submit a list of their preferred applicants in rank order to this same service. The process is blinded, so neither applicant nor program will see each other's list. Aggregate program rankings can be found here, and are tabulated in real time based on applicants' anonymously submitted rank lists.\n\nThe two parties' lists are combined by an NRMP computer, which creates stable (a proxy for optimal) matches of residents to programs using an algorithm. On the third Friday of March each year (\"Match Day\") these results are announced in Match Day ceremonies at the nation's 155 U.S. medical schools. By entering the Match system, applicants are contractually obligated to go to the residency program at the institution to which they were matched. The same applies to the programs; they are obligated to take the applicants who matched into them.\n\nOn the Monday of the week that contains the third Friday in March, candidates find out from the NRMP whether (but not where) they matched. If they have matched, they must wait until Match Day, which takes place on the following Friday, to find out where. In 2019, Match Day will be March 16.\n\nInformally called the scramble, the Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program (SOAP) is process for applicants that did not secure a position through the Match, the locations of remaining unfilled residency positions are released to unmatched applicants the following day. These applicants are given the opportunity to contact the programs about the open positions. This frantic, loosely structured system forces soon-to-be medical school graduates to choose programs not on their original Match list. In 2012, the NRMP introduced an \"organized scramble\" system. As part of the transition, Match Day was also moved from the third Thursday in March to the third Friday.\n\nInevitably, there will be discrepancies between the preferences of the student and programs. Students may be matched to programs very low on their rank list, especially when the highest priorities consist of competitive specialties like radiology, neurosurgery, plastic surgery, dermatology, ophthalmology, orthopedics, otolaryngology, radiation oncology, and urology. It is not unheard of for a student to go even a year or two in a residency then switching to a new program.\n\nA similar but separate osteopathic match exists which announces its results in February, before the NRMP. Osteopathic physicians (DOs) may participate in either match, filling either M.D. positions (traditionally obtained by physicians with the MD degree or international equivalent including the MBBS or MBChB degree) accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), or DO positions accredited by the American Osteopathic Association (AOA).\n\nMilitary residencies are filled in a similar manner as the NRMP however at a much earlier date (usually mid-December) to allow for students who did not match to proceed to the civilian system.\n\nIn 2000–2004 the matching process was attacked as anti-competitive by resident physicians represented by class-action lawyers. \"See, e.g., Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges et al.,\" 300 F.Supp.2d 119 (DDC 2004). Congress reacted by carving out a specific exception in antitrust law for medical residency. \"See\" Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004 § 207, Pub. L. No. 108-218, 118 Stat. 596 (2004) (codified at ). The lawsuit was later dismissed under the authority of the new act.\n\nThe matching process itself has also been scrutinized as limiting the employment rights of medical residents, namely where upon acceptance of a match, medical residents pursuant to the matching rules and regulations, are required to accept any and all terms and conditions of employment imposed by the health care facility, institution or hospital.\n\nThe USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX Level 1 score is just one of many factors considered by residency programs in selecting applicants. Although it varies from specialty to specialty, Alpha Omega Alpha membership, clinical clerkship grades, letters of recommendation, class rank, research experience, and school of graduation are all considered when selecting future residents.\n\n\"See main article on Medical resident work hours\"\n\nMedical residencies traditionally require lengthy hours of their trainees. Early residents literally resided at the hospitals, often working in unpaid positions during their education. During this time, a resident might always be \"on call\" or share that duty with just one other practitioner. More recently, 36-hour shifts were separated by 12 hours of rest, during 100+ hour weeks. The American public, and the medical education establishment, recognized that such long hours were counter-productive, since sleep deprivation increases rates of medical errors. This was noted in a landmark study on the effects of sleep deprivation and error rate in an Intensive-care unit. The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) has limited the number of work-hours to 80 hours weekly (averaged over 4 weeks), overnight call frequency to no more than one overnight every third day, and 10 hours off between shifts. Still, a review committee may grant exceptions for up to 10%, or a maximum of 88 hours, to individual programs. Until early 2017, duty periods for postgraduate year 1 could not exceed 16 hours per day, while postgraduate year 2 residents and in those in subsequent years can have duty periods up to a maximum of 24 hours of continuous duty. After early 2017, all years of residents may work up to 24-hour shifts. While these limits are voluntary, adherence has been mandated for the purposes of accreditation, though lack of adherence to hour restrictions is not uncommon.\n\nMost recently, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) built upon the recommendations of the ACGME in the December 2008 report \"Resident Duty Hours: Enhancing Sleep, Supervision and Safety\". While keeping the ACGME's recommendations of an 80-hour work week averaged over 4 weeks, the IOM report recommends that duty hours should not exceed 16 hours per shift, unless an uninterrupted five-hour break for sleep is provided within shifts that last up to 30 hours. The report also suggests residents be given variable off-duty periods between shifts, based on the timing and duration of the shift, to allow residents to catch up on sleep each day and make up for chronic sleep deprivation on days off.\n\nCritics of long residency hours trace the problem to the fact that a resident has no alternatives to positions that are offered, meaning residents must accept all conditions of employment, including very long work hours, and that they must also, in many cases, contend with poor supervision. This process, they contend, reduces the competitive pressures on hospitals, resulting in low salaries and long, unsafe work hours.\n\nSupporters of traditional work hours contend that much may be learned in the hospital during the extended time. Some argue that it remains unclear whether patient safety is enhanced or harmed by a reduction in work hours which necessarily lead to more transitions in care. Some of the clinical work traditionally performed by residents has been shifted to other healthcare workers such as ward clerks, nurses, laboratory personnel, and phlebotomists. It has also resulted in a shift of some resident work towards home work, where residents will complete paperwork and other duties at home as to not have to log the hours.\n\nUnited States federal law places no limit on resident work hours. Regulatory and legislative attempts at limiting resident work hours have been proposed, but have yet to be passed. Class action litigation on behalf of the 200,000 medical residents in the US has been another route taken to resolve the matter.\n\nDr. Richard Corlin, president of the American Medical Association, has called for re-evaluation of the training process, declaring \"We need to take a look again at the issue of why the resident is there.\"\n\nOn 1 November 2002, an 80-hour work limit went into effect in residencies accredited by the American Osteopathic Association (AOA). The decision also mandates that interns and residents in AOA-approved programs may not work in excess of 24 consecutive hours exclusive of morning and noon educational programs. It does allow up to six hours for inpatient and outpatient continuity and transfer of care. However, interns and residents may not assume responsibility for a new patient after 24 hours.\n\nThe U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rejected a petition filed by the Committee of Interns & Residents/SEIU, a national union of medical residents, the American Medical Student Association, and Public Citizen that sought to restrict medical resident work hours. OSHA instead opted to rely on standards adopted by ACGME, a private trade association that represents and accredits residency programs. On 1 July 2003, the ACGME instituted standards for all accredited residency programs, limiting the work week to 80 hours a week averaged over a period of four weeks. These standards have been voluntarily adopted by residency programs.\n\nThough re-accreditation may be negatively impacted and accreditation suspended or withdrawn for program non-compliance, the number of hours worked by residents still varies widely between specialties and individual programs. Some programs have no self-policing mechanisms in place to prevent 100+ hour work-weeks while others require residents to self-report hours. In order to effectuate complete, full and proper compliance with maximum hour work hour standards, there are proposals to extend U.S. federal whistle-blower protection to medical residents.\n\nCriticisms of limiting the work week include disruptions in continuity of care and limiting training gained through involvement in patient care. Similar concerns have arisen in Europe, where the Working Time Directive limits doctors to 48 hours per week averaged out over a 6-month reference period.\n\nRecently, there has been talk of reducing the work week further, to 57 hours. In the specialty of neurosurgery, some authors have suggested that surgical subspecialties may need to leave the ACGME and create their own accreditation process, because a decrease of this magnitude in resident work hours, if implemented, would compromise resident education and ultimately the quality of physicians in practice. It should be noted, however, that in other areas of medical practice, like internal medicine, pediatrics and radiology, reduced resident duty hours may be not only feasible but advantageous to trainees because this more closely resembles the practice patterns of these specialties, though it has never been determined that trainees should work fewer hours than graduates.\n\nIn 2007, the Institute of Medicine was commissioned by Congress to study the impact of long hours on medical errors. New ACGME rules went into effect on 1 July 2011 limiting first-year residents to 16-hour shifts. The new ACGME rules were criticized in the journal \"Nature and Science of Sleep\" for failing to fully implement the IOM recommendations.\n\nThe Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education clearly states the following three points in the Common Program Requirements for Graduate Medical Education:\nResearch remains a nonmandatory part of the curriculum and many residency programs do not enforce the research commitment of their faculty leading to a non-Gaussian distribution of the Research Productivity Scale.\n\nThe Department of Health and Human Services, primarily Medicare, funds the vast majority of residency training in the US. This tax-based financing covers resident salaries and benefits through payments called Direct Medical Education or DME payments. Medicare also uses taxes for Indirect Medical Education or IME payments, a subsidy paid to teaching hospitals that is tied to admissions of Medicare patients in exchange for training resident physicians in certain selected specialties. Overall funding levels, however, have remained frozen over the last ten years, creating a bottleneck in the training of new physicians in the US, according to the AMA. On the other hand, some argue that Medicare subsidies for training residents simply provide surplus revenue for hospitals which recoup their training costs by paying residents salaries (roughly $45,000 per year) that are far below the residents' market value. Nicholson concludes that residency bottlenecks are not caused by a Medicare funding cap, but rather, by Residency Review Committees (which approve new residencies in each specialty) which seek to limit the number of specialists in their field to maintain high incomes. In any case, hospitals trained residents long before Medicare provided additional subsidies for that purpose. A large number of teaching hospitals fund resident training to increase the supply of residency slots, leading to the modest 4% total growth in slots from 1998 to 2004.\n\nMany changes have occurred in postgraduate medical training in the last fifty years:\n\nIn a survey of more than 15,000 residents in internal medicine, approximately 19% of residents with more than $200,000 in debt designated their quality of life as bad, compared with approximately 12% of those with no debt. Also, residents with more than $200,000 in loans scored 5 points lower on Internal Medicine In Training Exam than those who were debt-free.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, it leads to eligibility for fellowship of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, or a number of similar bodies.\n\nIn Canada, once medical doctors successfully complete their residency program, they become eligible for certification by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada or The College of Family Physicians of Canada (CFPC) if the residency program was in family medicine. Many universities now offer \"enhanced skills\" certifications in collaboration with the CFPC, allowing family physicians to receive training in various areas such as emergency medicine, palliative care, maternal and child health care, and hospital medicine. Additionally, successful graduates of the family medicine residency program can apply to the \"Clinical Scholar Program\" in order to be involved in family medicine research.\n\nIn Mexico, after finishing their residency, physicians obtain the degree of \"Specialist,\" which renders them eligible for certification and fellowship, depending on the field of practice.\n\nIn South Africa, successful completion of residency leads to board certification as a specialist with the Health Professions Council and eligibility for fellowship of the Colleges of Medicine of South Africa.\n\nIn the United States, it leads to eligibility for board certification and membership/fellowship of several specialty colleges and academies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33553562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33553562", "title": "Richard Lang (CEO)", "text": "Richard Lang (CEO)\n\nRichard Lang is the Chairman & CEO of Democrasoft, Inc. He is also co-founder of the 20-year-old public company, Burst.com, Inc. that in 2010 transformed itself into Democrasoft. Richard is also the President of the Virtual Country Foundation, a 501c3 not-for-profit organization dedicated to increasing non-partisan civic engagement by citizens, via online and other resources.\n\nRichard is a pioneer in the technology industry, having been the co-inventor of the world’s first, patented, dual-deck VCR in 1983 and co-founder of his first public company, Go-Video, Inc. In 1987, Richard invented (and later patented) a revolutionary solution for efficiently delivering video and audio programs over electronic networks, in “burst” mode, which created a foundation for today’s video-on-demand and audio-on-demand systems. He co-founded Explore Technology in 1990, which later became Burst.com, to develop and license this technology. Beginning in 2005, Burst licensed “burst” mode media delivery and network optimization technology to Microsoft, Apple and other preeminent companies in the industry. It eventually sold most of the remaining legacy patents in late 2010 and early 2011. Richard is also the author of a family of new intellectual property which address online collaboration methods and designs. This IP is currently assigned to Democrasoft, Inc.\n\nRichard is the author of \"Virtual Country - Strategy for 21st Century Democracy\".\n\nRichard resides in the San Francisco North Bay Area with his family and, in his spare time, is a prolific composer and musician.\n\nRichard’s passion for using technology to empower people is foremost in Democrasoft’s mission and supports Richard’s long-time vision for the evolution of democracy and the empowerment of individuals.\n\nCollaborize Classroom, a free online learning platform is Democrasoft's flagship product. The web-based educational technology allows teachers to extend their classroom discussions to a structured and private online community, on a topic-by-topic basis. Students can collaborate with their classmates online while expanding on classroom discussions. The topic-based online lessons allow for deeper student engagement and participation inside and outside the classroom.\nwww.MyWeJIT.com is a free online utility for the creation and distribution of topic-based voting and collaboration \"modules.\" WeJITs gather community around individual topics or issues. They can be made public or private, depending on who is invited. They can also be embedded in other websites and e-publications (such as ebooks and e-magazines), and shared via email and/or social media. Applications exist in education, e-publishing, productivity and civic engagement.\n\nRichard Lang's Linkedin Profile<br>\nRichard Lang on MSNBC’s Dylan Ratigan Show<br>\nRichard Lang - Harnessing the Wisdom of the Crowd<br>\nRichard Lang - New Community Metrics\n"}
{"id": "29744227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29744227", "title": "Spirit of New Zealand", "text": "Spirit of New Zealand\n\nThe tall ship Spirit of New Zealand is a steel-hulled, three-masted barquentine from Auckland, New Zealand. It was purpose-built by the Spirit of Adventure Trust in 1986 for youth development. It is 42.5 m in total length and carries a maximum of 40 trainees and 13 crew on overnight voyages. The ship's home port is Auckland, and it spends most of its time sailing around the Hauraki Gulf. During the summer season, it often sails to the Marlborough Sounds and Nelson, at the top of the South Island.\n\nThe spirit of the project was derived from the sail training operations of the schooners \"Sir Winston Churchill\" and \"Malcolm Miller\" which were built for the organisation formerly known as the Sail Training Association (STA) https://www.spiritofadventure.org.nz/the-trust/our-history\n\nThe ship is used for a year-round programme of youth development, consisting primarily of 10-day individual voyages for 15- to 19-year-olds and 5-day \"Spirit Trophy\" voyages for teams of 10 Year 10 students. Once a year an \"Inspiration\" voyage for trainees with physical disabilities is run, as well as board of trustees and Navy training voyages. In addition, adult day, weekend and coastal voyages are offered to paying members of the public. The ship is usually in dry-dock for refit in November and does not sail on Christmas Day.\n\nThe \"Spirit of New Zealand\" is a barquentine-rigged three-masted steel hull 33.3 m (109 ft) long, with an overall length of 45.2 m (148 ft) including the bowsprit, and a maximum width of 9.1 m (29.9 ft). She has a draft of about 4 m (13 ft) and a displacement of 286 tons. Under power, the \"Spirit of New Zealand\" can reach a top speed of 10 knots, and 14 knots under sail. A new engine installed in late 2010 is expected to increase the vessel's maximum speed.\n\nThe three steel masts are 28.7, 31.3, and 28.0 metres high and carry 14 sails totalling 724.3m² (7,965 ft²). There are 3 jibs and 4 square sails on the foremast. The main and mizzen masts are gaff rigged, and both can carry a gaff-topsail. In addition, there are 3 staysails on the main mast.\n\nThe hull is painted black with the ship's name and the Trust's website painted in white at the bow and across the stern. In addition, a large silver fern is painted on either side of the bow beneath the name. A stainless steel rubbing strake runs the length of the vessel and circular port holes are visible above the waterline. A wooden rail runs around the edge of the entire deck.\n\nThe standard crew of the \"Spirit of New Zealand\" has varied during her lifetime, but in 2010 consisted of 1 master, 3 mates, 1 cook, 1 engineer, 2 cadets, 4 volunteer watch assistants, 2 leading hands and 40 trainees. For day sail voyages, the ship is registered to carry significantly more passengers. The trainees are normally split 20 male and 20 female, and sleep in separate accommodation. A change to the male accommodation was made so that 6 of the bunks could be separated from the remainder, allowing voyages to sail with 26 females and 14 males. This change was made in response to frequently higher female applicants than male applicants.\n\nIn October 2013, the vessel was in Sydney, Australia as part of the tall ship fleet at the International Fleet Review 2013.\n"}
{"id": "31825486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31825486", "title": "Teaching as Leadership", "text": "Teaching as Leadership\n\nTeaching As Leadership: The Highly Effective Teacher's Guide to Closing the Achievement Gap () is a book by Steven Farr, Chief Knowledge Office at Teach For America, published by Jossey Bass in 2010. Farr and Teach For America share what the organization has learned about effective teachers over the last 20 years working to close the achievement gap. Based on this knowledge, the book outlines six principles that they believe will help teachers become leaders within the classroom, in particular, classrooms in low-income communities.\n\nTeach For America is a Nonprofit organization that recruits top college graduates and professionals to commit to teach for two years in urban and rural schools across the United States.\n\nTeaching as Leadership includes a framework that explains the traits of Teach For America's most successful teachers. This framework is categorized into six leadership principles:\n\nSuccessful teachers in low-income communities set measurable goals for their students. Farr explains that these goals, along with strategies of investment, help both the students and teacher gain the motivation to overcome other obstacles and gain academic achievement.\n\nAccording to the book, effective teachers work with students and their families to reverse low expectations that undermine a students ability to learn. \"These teachers change students’ belief that intelligence is a fixed characteristic and show them that if they work hard enough, they will “get smart.”\" \n\nAdditionally, effective classroom leaders plan backwards with every mission they set forth on. These teachers ensure that every aspect of their work is built upon well thought out goals and effective strategies.\n\nTeach For America states that \"Strong classroom leaders are effective executors, making good judgments about when to follow through on their plans and when to adjust them in light of incoming data. They offer their students consistent, caring, demanding leadership, and constantly seek to maximize the time students have to work hard toward their goals.\" \n\nBy critiquing their own work and constantly looking for new ways to improve their skills and leadership, effective teachers ensure that they are truly having an impact. These teachers use data to ensure that they are reaching their goals.\n\nFinally, Teach For America states that \"In many low-income communities, schools with the least capacity serve children with the greatest need. To make significant academic progress with students, highly effective teachers go above and beyond the traditional role of “teacher” and do whatever it takes to lead their students to academic success.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37647646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37647646", "title": "Technical Higher Secondary School, Vazhakkad", "text": "Technical Higher Secondary School, Vazhakkad\n\nThe Technical Higher Secondary School (THSS) is a technical higher secondary school in Vazhakkad, Malappuram, in India. Part of the Model Technical Higher Secondary Schools, which provides education in the technological and hi-tech sectors in the Indian state of Kerala, this school was established in 1993 in Vazhakkad and is managed by the Institute of Human Resources Development (IHRD) and promote scientific advancement, technological progress and economic growth. Courses are conducted in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "892603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892603", "title": "Technische Hochschule", "text": "Technische Hochschule\n\nA Technische Hochschule (, plural: \"Technische Hochschulen\", abbreviated \"TH\") is a type of university focusing on engineering sciences in Germany. Previously, it also existed in Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands (\"Technische Hogeschool)\", and Finland (\"teknillinen korkeakoulu).\" In the 1970s (in Germany) and the 1980s (in the Netherlands), the \"Technische Hochschule\" emerged into the \"Technische Universität\" (German) or \"Technische Universiteit\" (Dutch). Since 2009, several German universities of applied sciences were renamed to \"Technische Hochschulen\". \n\nIn German-language countries, the term \"Hochschule\" is more general than \"Universität\" (plural: \"Universitäten\") and also encompasses universities which do not have the right to confer doctorates and habilitations, in contrast to \"Universitäten\". Today, \"Universitäten\" as well as other \"Hochschulen\" call themselves \"Technische Hochschule\" for historical reasons. However, a \"Technische Hochschule\" with the status of a \"Universität\" is regarded as a \"Technische Universität\" despite the name.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, higher education institutions in Europe were called a university only if a certain classical of subjects encompassing philosophy, medicine, law and theology was taught. When engineering sciences became more important in academica due to the Industrial Revolution, institutions of tertiary education devoted to these were denied the prestigious denomination \"university\", and had to use the more general term \"Hochschule\" instead.\n\nIt was a major breakthrough, then, when in the first half of the 20th century, some \"Technische Hochschulen\" in Germany and \"Technische Hogescholen\" in the Netherlands were given the right to award the doctoral degrees, and again later when they were allowed to call themselves universities. This change of status was accompanied by a broader spectrum of academic disciplines and more fundamental research.\n\nWhile most former \"Technische Hochschulen\" opted to change their name to \"Technische Universität\" to reflect their new status, some of them preferred to maintain their traditional and established names, most notably the RWTH Aachen in Germany as well as ETH Zurich and EPF Lausanne in Switzerland.\n\nStarting in 2009, several German universities of applied sciences (\"Fachhochschulen\") with a technical focus have changed their names to \"Technische Hochschule\".\n\nList of Austrian \"Technische Universitäten\" by location:\n\nList of German \"Technische Universitäten\" by location:\nList of \"Technische Hochschulen\" (institutions with the status of \"Technische Universität\" not included) by location:\n\nList of \"Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology\" by location:\n\nThe concept of a TH exists also in Finland as \"teknillinen korkeakoulu\", which is equivalent to a TH. Examples include Teknillinen korkeakoulu in Espoo, Tampereen teknillinen korkeakoulu and Lappeenrannan teknillinen korkeakoulu. Similarly to German speaking countries, most of them later changed their name to \"teknillinen yliopisto\", which is equivalent to a TU. However, Teknillinen korkeakoulu retained its old name until it merged with two other universities to form the current Aalto University.\n\n"}
{"id": "21593964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21593964", "title": "Twice exceptional", "text": "Twice exceptional\n\nThe term twice exceptional, often abbreviated as 2e, entered educators' lexicons in mid 1990s and refers to gifted children who have some form of disability. These children are considered exceptional both because of their giftedness (e.g., intellectual, creative, perceptual, motor etc.) and because of their special needs (e.g., specific learning disability, neurodevelopmental disability etc.) Ronksley-Pavia (2015) presents a useful conceptual model of the co-occurrence of disability and giftedness. \n\nA 2e child usually refers to a child who, alongside being considered gifted in comparison to same age-peers, is formally diagnosed with one or more disabilities. Although 2e can refer to any general disability, it is often used to refer to students with learning disabilities, although research is not limited to these areas, and a more holistic view of 2e can help move the field forwardThe disabilities are varied: dyslexia, visual or auditory processing disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, sensory processing disorder, autism spectrum disorder, Tourette Syndrome, or any other disability interfering with the student's ability to learn effectively in a traditional environment. The child might have a diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or diagnoses of anxiety or depression. Often children with 2e have multiple co-morbid disabilities that present as a paradox to many parents and educators.\n\nThere is no clear-cut profile of twice-exceptional children because the nature and disabilities of twice exceptionality are so varied. This variation among twice-exceptional children makes it difficult to determine just how many of them there might be. Best estimates of prevalence range from 300,000 to 360,000 in the U.S. (on the order of 0.5% of the total number of children under 18). Linda Silverman, Ph.D., the director of the Gifted Development Center has found that fully 1/6 of the gifted children tested at the GDC have a learning difference of some type. In Australia, in 2010 a conservative estimate of the prevalence of 2e children was around 40,000, or approximately 10% of gifted Australian children, although other estimates have placed this much higher at 30% of gifted Australian children as being 2e.\n\nBrody and Mills [1997] argue that this population of students \"could be considered the most misunderstood of all exceptionalities\". In each situation, the 2e student’s strengths help to compensate for deficits; the deficits, on the other hand, make the child’s strengths less apparent although as yet there is no empirical research to confirm this theory. The interplay of exceptional strengths and weaknesses in a single individual results in inconsistency in performance. They might present any of the three profiles identified by educator and researcher Susan Baum:\nIn the case of behavioral/socioemotional, rather than cognitive problems, both strengths and deficits can be intensified.\nA 2e student’s grades commonly alternate between high and low, sometimes within the same subject. The child might have advanced vocabulary and ideas but be unable to organize those ideas and express them on paper. They might be a skilled artist or builder but turn in assignments that are messy or illegible. They might complete assignments but lose them or forget to turn them in. To the parents and teachers observing this behavior, it may seem that the child just isn’t trying. In fact, many 2e children work as hard if not harder than others, but with less to show for their efforts.\nThis struggle to accomplish tasks that appear easy for other students can leave 2e children frustrated, anxious, and depressed. It can rob them of their enthusiasm and energy for school and damage their self-esteem.\n\nTwice exceptionality is not something that can solidly be diagnosed and therefore is not easily identified in students. Children identified as twice exceptional can exhibit a wide range of traits, many of them typical of gifted children. Like those who are gifted, 2e children often show greater asynchrony than average children (that is, a larger gap between their mental age and physical age). They are often intense and highly sensitive to their emotional and physical environments. The following chart summarizes characteristics commonly seen in this population.\n\nIf these difficulties persist, school personnel or parents may decide that evaluation is needed. Along with a physical examination, children may undergo psycho-educational testing to determine the cause of their struggles. The professionals who take part in the process should be knowledgeable about giftedness. Some characteristics of giftedness can look very much like those of a learning disability or disorder and, as a result, gifted children are sometimes incorrectly diagnosed with disorders. Evaluation results should indicate the child’s areas of strength and weakness and identify whether any disorders or learning disabilities are present. In addition, the results should include information on what the child needs in order to build on the strengths and compensate for the weaknesses that have been identified. Teaching to students' abilities rather than disabilities increases self-concept scores.\n\nTheir strengths are the key to success for twice-exceptional children. They thrive on intellectual challenges in their areas of interest and ability. Many 2e children do best when given work that engages multiple senses and offers opportunities for hands-on learning. However, a requirement for success for these students is support, either given informally as needed or formalized in an Individualized Education Program (IEP) or 504 plan.\n\nSupport can come in several forms. An essential form is encouragement; others include compensation strategies and accommodations in the child’s areas of weakness. For example, 2e students may benefit from learning time-management skills and organizational techniques; and they may need to have extra time on tests and reduced homework. It should be remembered, however, that the student's strengths should not merely be viewed as means through which they can compensate for their areas of weakness. Proper support for a twice-exceptional student must include accommodations to allow them to develop and challenge their gifts as well. It is essential for these students to feel as though they are being noticed for their gifts more than just their weaknesses, otherwise the student may fall into negative behavioral patterns such as the ones aforementioned. In sum, appropriate interventions should address both the academic and social emotional needs of 2e learners.\n\nTwice-exceptional education is a movement that started in the early 1970s with \"gifted-handicapped\" education, a term essentially referring to the same population. 2e education is an education approach backed by 35 years of research and best practices tailored to the unique needs of 2e students. It is a marriage between special education and gifted education—a strengths-based, differentiated approach that provides special educational supports. Many argue that talent development is the most critical aspect of their education.\n\nWhen teaching 2e students there are methods an educator should avoid. Twice exceptionality students do not respond well to lectures, and tend to gravitate more toward \"big picture\" learning. It's also important to understand that these students have a hard time following unnecessarily strict rules, and should not be expected to conform to them. Instead, being flexible with them, and focusing more on holistic, big-picture learning is recommended. \n\nStill, finding schools that can meet the needs of twice exceptional children can be a challenge for many parents. Public and private schools with programs that combine the appropriate levels of challenge and support for these learners are in the minority. For this reason, a number of parents choose alternative educational options for their 2e children, including homeschooling and virtual schools.\n\nOnly a handful of schools in United States offer a curriculum specifically tailored to 2e children. Some public schools offer part-time programs for twice exceptional students, where they can progress in subjects like math at their own pace, and meet other students like themselves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29542606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29542606", "title": "University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources", "text": "University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources\n\nThe history of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources at The University of Maryland is simply the history of the University itself. The University of Maryland was chartered in 1856 as the Maryland Agricultural College. Charles Benedict Calvert spent $21,000 to purchase 420 acres in College Park, Maryland, and later that year founded the college. The school opened on October 5, 1859 with a total of 34 students. In 1864, the state legislature designated it as a land grant college under the Morrill Act of 1862, which made federal funds available. \nBy the end of the Civil War, the University, having been hit hard by financial problems and a decline in student enrollment, found itself bankrupt. The state legislature assumed half ownership of the school in 1866, which pulled the college out of bankruptcy, and made the college, in part, a state institution. Enrollment slowly increased at the University, and over the next 26 years Maryland gained a reputation as a strong research institution. The federally funded Agricultural Experiment Station was established under the Hatch Act of 1887, and new state laws granted the college regulatory control over several areas of agriculture and public safety. The school has grown over the years, adding several other academic departments. However, it still remains a land grant university, and continues to have a strong college of agriculture and natural resources.\n\nAgricultural and Resource Economics\n\nAnimal and Avian Sciences\n\nPlant Science and Landscape Architecture\n\nNutrition and Food Science\n\nEnvironmental Science and Technology\n\nEnvironmental Science and Policy\n\nInstitute of Applied Agriculture\n\nVirginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine\n\n\n\nMore Information\n\nAgriculture and Natural Resources Student Council\n\nThe Agriculture and Natural Resources Student Council is a group of student representatives from each club in the college. They are responsible for coordinating the Fall Bash, Ag Day, and the AGNR Banquet. All students welcome to participate.\n\nCollege of Agriculture and Natural Resources Student Ambassadors\n\nAs an ambassador students promote the growth, development, and image of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources. They serve as communication links between students, faculty, and the administration. Provide support and carry out selected activities of the College. They are also public role models for the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources. Over 20 students are invited to represent the college, based on their academic achievement and leadership potential.\n\nAlpha Gamma Rho\n\nAlpha Gamma Rho is a social/professional fraternity open to all men from the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, the College of Chemical and Life Sciences, and men with agricultural backgrounds.\n\nThe Fraternity of Alpha Zeta, Maryland Chapter\n\nAlpha Zeta is a professional fraternity made up of both men and women pursuing educational and/or career fields in agriculture. It is the oldest agriculture fraternity, founded in 1897.\n\nUniversity of Maryland Animal Husbandry Club\n\nThe Animal Husbandry Club helps to develop future leaders, build strong interpersonal relationships, and promote the industry of animal agriculture. The group holds field trips to sheep, swine, dairy, beef, and horse farms. They also participate in the sponsorship of the livestock show on Ag Day.\n\nEquestrian Club\n\nThe Equestrian Club is open to undergraduate, and graduate students, as well as faculty, and staff. Club members participate in riding and training of the on campus horses, along with their daily care.\n\nFood and Nutrition Club\n\nFAN Club is designed to unite and support the students of the Department of Nutrition and Food Science. Members develop leadership skills, while also receiving educational and career opportunities. The group helps surrounding Maryland communities understand food and nutrition through club programs and activities.\n\nFood Technology Club\n\nThe Food and Technology Club is part of the National Institute of Food Technologists Student Association. The club strives to enhance student's professional development, leadership skills, and provide members with career opportunities. Some activities include: Product development, College Bowl, Undergraduate Research Paper Competition, tours of local companies, and guest speakers.\n\nNational Resources Management Society\n\nThe NRMT society welcomes all students interested in environmental professions. The group participates in tree planting, stream clean-ups, camping, canoeing, and hosting guest speakers.\n\nAnimal and Avian Sciences Graduate Student Association\n\nAASGSA are involved in many activities within the college, to promote graduate student interaction between other students, faculty, and staff. Events include: Annual Spaghetti Sizzler, Chili Cookoff, and other social events throughout the year.\n\nSigma Alpha, Beta Alpha Chapter\n\nSigma Alpha is a professional sorority, promoting agriculture on a local, state, and national level. The group emphasized professional development, close friendships, and ties to the surrounding Greek community.\n\nVeterinary Science Club\nThe Veterinary Science Club is a group of students sharing interest in the field of veterinary science and an official member of the American Pre-Veterinary Medical Association. The club works to promote a better understanding of the numerous opportunities in veterinary medicine, update students with the latest veterinary school information, and share information on veterinary and animal experiences.\n\nCollege Park Environmental Group Promoting Environmental Activism and Appreciation\nThe CPEG is a University of Maryland sponsored student group, promoting environmental awareness. The group is involved in community service, recreation, and education.\n\nCollegiate 4-H\nCollegiate 4-H is an organization that provides its members with a sense of identity on campus, enriches their lives through group projects and recreation, and develops confidence and leadership skills. Mainly the chapter here at the University of Maryland, College Park provides leadership and organization to the College Park Clovers 4-H Club in combination with Prince George's County 4-H, while also engaging in a variety of fundraising efforts. Within our club, there are opportunities to travel including the Northeast Regional Conference held each fall and the National Collegiate Conference held each spring. Collegiate 4-H is open to all students who wish to support youth and the 4-H program. It is not necessary to have prior 4-H experience, only to have an interest in the 4-H ideals and in serving your community.\n\nMANRRS\n\nThe group works to promote academic and professional advancement of Minorities in Agriculture and Natural Resources, and related Sciences. Their main objectives are: to promote programs in agriculture, natural resources, and the related sciences at the University and in the community; to attract and retain diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds in AGNR programs; and to provide academic, social, and professional support and networking opportunities for students in the programs of agriculture, natural resources, and related sciences.\n\nMore Information\n\n\nMore Information\n\nResearch and Education Centers\n\nMore Information\n\nPartnerships with\n\nUSDA\n\nThe University of Maryland's partnership with the United States Department of Agriculture started in 1957, collaborating in such areas as dairy, agronomy, horticulture and agricultural biotechnology research.\n\nBARC\n\nThe USDA's Henry A. Wallace Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, works with the University of Maryland on agriculture, environmental, and natural resources research.\n\nAPHIS\n\nAnimal and Plant Health Inspection Service, also a part of the USDA, host the “Ag Discovery” program with the University of Maryland. The “Ag Discovery” program is a summer program for high school students, to learn about careers in agriculture.\n\nMore Information\n\nThe University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources boasts a multitude of unique scholarship opportunities for students. The College is also one of only two colleges at the University to have scholarship support for incoming students. The depth of scholarships found in the Agriculture and Natural Resources are often made possible due to the tremendous support for Alumni, and donations.\n\nCollege Scholarships: 44\n\nOutside Scholarships: 56\n\nUniversity of Maryland Scholarships: 12\n\nTravel Scholarships: 4\n\nInternational Programs in Agriculture and Natural Resources (IPAN)\n\nStarted in 1998, and was developed to the encourage research, education and outreach across the globe. The programs help other countries to improve their crop production, livestock management, and conservation practices. In return, the University and its students gain valuable knowledge and experience of other countries and cultures abroad.\n\nAzerbaijan – Studies revolve around the restoration and renovations of local oil field and solid waste disposal sites. Lectures will correspond with tours to local cultural and historical destinations as well as a day trip to other cities.\n\nChina - In cooperation with China's Panda Base, University of Maryland, and Virginia Tech, students traveled to China to intern at the Chengdu panda base. Students study the reproductive science of the great pandas. Other visits involve the apple and the dairy goat industry.\n\nGeorgia – Work in Georgia involves publishing agriculture textbooks, on a range of subjects. These, include water erosion of soils, agricultural risks, insurance, and forages production and livestock feeding. Projects also include laboratory modernization; work on the Established Extension Center, and modernizing the veterinary medicine curriculum.\n\nIndia – Students from India have interned with the University of Maryland's college of Veterinary Medicine. In October 2006 Dean Wei of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, along with IPAN officials visited Haryana Agricultural University. The visit was an effort to create partnerships focusing on faculty and student exchanges in veterinary medicine, plant, biotechnology, and distance education.\n\nRussia – Students will take an introductory course to Russian, working side by side with Russian students. They will also study the economics of collective farming, visit crop and livestock operations. Learn about the history and culture with a tour of St. Petersburg.\n\nTaiwan – In 2009 the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office, in Washington, DC, signed an agreement involving the National Taiwan University and Tunghai University, in Taiwan, and the University of Maryland. The agreement gave way to ‘co-taught’ classes on Nutrigenomics and Environmental Science. The class is taught through the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and the program is planned to be extended to other subject areas in Agriculture, and to other colleges at the University of Maryland.\n\nTurkey – 12 Turkish extension agents were trained in improving their skills in educating farmers. The goal was for extension agent to learn about the farmer's operation, offer technical assessment, and teach farmers how to solve their own problems during on-farm visits.\n\nUzbekistan and Kazakhstan – Beginning in 2000 AGNR started the multi-year project to help develop an extension service in Uzbekistan. Helping farmers to work more efficiently and improving challenges to rural economy by developing a more sustainable agriculture.\n\nCosta Rica – Students explore Costa Rica's agricultural development and challenges to sustaining its tropical ecosystems. Students have the chance to visit organic farms. Courses include lecture as well as activities such as visiting an active volcano, hiking, a trip to hot springs, and beaches.\n\nFrance – Programs include animal crop production and agroecology, viticulture and oenology, landscape management, horticulture, agribusiness and rural tourism. Students explore French food, culture, and history during their time abroad. Students spend part of their time in the classroom, learning the language and culture. They also travel to site visits, field trips, and two weeks of organized sightseeing.\n\nItaly – Students study the landscape and the social culture of the country. Understanding the appreciation Italian culture has for its historical architectural, and the countries efforts to preserve it.\n\nPeru - Students spend time in the capital city of Lima, and in the city of Iquitos, a city next to the rainforest. After morning lectures students set out on excursions to explore the rainforest, and the many practical uses for the plant life that grows there.\n\nThe University of Maryland Extension is a statewide, non-formal education system. It is an educational program that also provides assistance to citizens who need help with agricultural problems. The University of Maryland Extension program helps in the areas of water conservation, pest management programs, dairy farms, food safety, forest industry evaluation, and composting to reduce waste, just to name a few. It is run by the college of Agriculture and Natural Resources, the VMRCVM, and the University of Maryland Eastern Shore. Some of their programs include: 4-H youth development; food, nutrition & health; and crops, farm animals and nursery.\n\nGeorge Demas, B.S., 1980\nHis work for the Natural Resources Conservation Service in Maryland and New Jersey, led to the expansion of the concept of soil, and the revision of the USDA soil taxonomy.\n\nRichard R. Arnold, M.S. Marine, Estuarine, & Environmental Sciences, 1992\nBest known for being selected as a Mission Specialist –Educator by NASA in May 2004. In March, 2009 he flew aboard the space shuttle mission STS-119\n\nKwesi Ahwoi, Postgraduate Certificate, 1986\nCurrent Minister for Food and Agriculture in Ghana.\n\nPeter Machado, B.S. 2006, M.S. 2008\nMachado is a research scientist at the Hershey Tech center in Hershey, PA. He primarily works with new technologies and emerging product ideas with chocolate in the lab.\n\nFred R. Shank Ph.D.\nDirector of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition of the FDA for 10 years. Senior Advisor to the Commissioner for External Academic Affairs in January 1998. He was the recipient of the Babcock-Hard Award in 1994 and has authored numerous papers and presentations on public health, nutrition and food safety.\n\nLester R. Brown M.S. 1959, LL.D. (Hon.) 1976\n\nFounded the Worldwatch Institute in 1974 and the Earth Policy Institute in 2001. In his lifetime he has authored or co-authored some 50 books, in more than 40 languages. Brown holds 24 honorary degrees, and is a MacArthur Fellow. A few of the awards Brown has received are the United Nations Environment Prize in 1987, Japan's Blue Planet Prize and the 2009 Lindbergh Award.\n\nRobert F. Chandler, Jr. Ph.D. 1934, D.Sc. (Hon.) 1957\nIn the Philippines, Chandler helped to establish the International Rice Research Institute in 1959. Chandler lead scientist in developing new varieties of rice, tripling the harvests. He also received the 1988 World Food Prize.\n\nMylo S. Downey B.S. 1927, M.S. 1940\nDowney was the national director of 4-H, and developer of 4-H-style programs in countries around the world. He also served as consultant for the Peace Corps and co-founder of the International Farm Youth Exchange. At Maryland he established the University of Maryland Agricultural Scholarship Fund.\n\nGeary Francis “Swede” Eppley B.S. 1920, M.S. 1926\nAfter serving in World War I, Eppley finished his undergraduate work and accepted the position of assistant professor of agronomy in 1922. He later went on the coach Maryland's track team to two national championships. Eppley held the position of both director and faculty chairman of athletics. He was the first president of the Atlantic Coast Conference, as well as a co-founder of the conference. In World War II Eppley received the Legion of Merit. He retired from Maryland in 1964, after serving as the dean of men and director of student activities. The Campus Recreation Center is named in his honor.\n\nAlbin Owings Kuhn B.S. 1938, Ph. D. 1948\nIn 1965 Albin Kuhn served as vice president, and eventually chancellor for both Baltimore City and County University of Maryland campuses. During this time he constructed new buildings for teaching and research. Kuhn later became executive vice president of the University System of Maryland in 1979. He retired in 1982, and that year UMBC named the Albin O. Kuhn Library and Gallery in his honor.\n\nWilliam Woolford Skinner B.S. 1895, D.Sc. (Hon.) 1917\nWilliam Woolford Skinner worked for the U.S. Department of Agriculture for 40 years. He started his career in 1904, investigating the mineral makeup of underground and surface waters at the Arizona Experiment Station. Skinner chaired a committee studying the effects of pollution on the Potomac River's and Chesapeake Bay's oyster production in 1910. From 1923 to 1941 he served on the Board of Regents, and was the chair for seven of those years.\n\nMore Information\n\n"}
{"id": "48466772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48466772", "title": "Vanishing valentine experiment", "text": "Vanishing valentine experiment\n\nThe vanishing valentine experiment is a type of chemical reaction related to the blue bottle experiment. This reaction occurs when water, glucose, sodium hydroxide, and resazurin is mixed in a flask. When the solution is shaken, it turns from light blue to a redish color. The solution turns back to a light blue after being left to stand for a while. This reaction can be repeated several times.\n\nAfter mixing all the components, shake the bottle and the color will turn to red or pink depend on the amount of resazurin in the solution. More resazurin will result in more time needed for the solution to turn back the color and the intensity of the red color.\n\nGlucose reduces resazurin to resorufin which will then be reduced again to a colorless compound dihydroresorufin. When dihydroresorufin is shaken, it is oxidized back to resorufin because when shook, the oxygen in the bottle will oxidize dihydroresorufin and make it back into resorufin.\n\nVanishing Valentine pattern formation is the new modification to the original blue bottle experiment which has a similar mechanism. This experiment was developed by Steven Engerer and Gilbert Cook, inspired by Campbell's work from 1963. Later in 1994, Cook made changes to the classic blue bottle experiment in his article called \"Blue Bottle Experiment Revisited\". The possible application of this experiment is to identify oxygen level of intelligence food packaging and oxygen scavenger for super-resolution imaging. Instead of using methylene blue (blue bottle experiment), Vanishing Valentine uses resazurin that the solution will turn into colorless/fluorescent red.\n\nDuring the experiment, the solution will be tested on a thin Petri dish to be easily observed. With the mixing of sodium hydroxide, glucose and resazurin the color of the solution will turn to be light pink. Then, stir gently until the whole solution turns bright pink. After leaving the solution for a few minutes to oxidized, the bright pink colour will slowly fade into light pink. For a certain time, the patterns will start to develop due to different densities of glucose and the oxidized product. In the beginning of pattern formations, the patterns will start developing with a ring on the edge of the Petri dish. Then, numerous dot-like pattern will appear, furthermore these dotted pattern will start to move in spiral or current-like movement. In addition, with more trial of stirring, the solution patterns will be slightly different. In other words, the first trial will acquire the clearest dots-like pattern.\n\n"}
{"id": "19300303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19300303", "title": "École Marie Félicité Brosset", "text": "École Marie Félicité Brosset\n\nÉcole Marie Félicité Brosset is a French-Georgian international school in Tbilisi, Georgia,now making part of \"Rober Schuman European School\" . It has a double studying program - in French and Georgian and gives its students possibility to continue their education in France,after passing the baccalauréat exam. \nThe average quantity of students is about 80-100.\n\nList of international schools\n\n"}
