{"id": "25239779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25239779", "title": "ASEAN Television", "text": "ASEAN Television\n\nASEAN Television is a MCOT-operated channel provide arts and culture programmes, news and documentaries of the ASEAN member countries. \n\nThis Channel can be found at channel 99 on TrueVisions and its official website. \n\nASEAN TV began broadcasting on the summit of ASEAN leaders at Cha-am and Hua Hin.\n\n"}
{"id": "25336530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25336530", "title": "African Women's Union of the Congo", "text": "African Women's Union of the Congo\n\nThe African Women's Union of Congo (, abbreviated U.F.A.C.) was a women's organization in Congo-Brazzaville. U.F.A.C. was closely associated with the Congolese Youth Union (U.J.C.). U.F.A.C. largely failed to obtain a following beyond the milieus around U.J.C.\n\nU.F.A.C. was affiliated to the International Women's Federation (F.I.F.).\n\nAlice Mahoungou (nee Alice Badiangaba) was a women's activist and politician in Brazzaville who became one of the leaders of the African Women's Union of the Congo (U.F.A.C.). In addition, she was an activist on behalf of the Congolese Youth Union (U.J.C.).\n"}
{"id": "1472607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472607", "title": "Aid effectiveness", "text": "Aid effectiveness\n\nAid effectiveness is the effectiveness of development aid in achieving economic or human development (or development targets). Following the Cold War in the late 1990s, donor governments and aid agencies began to realize that their many different approaches and requirements for conditioning aid were imposing huge costs on developing countries and making aid less effective. They began working with each other, and with developing countries, to harmonize their work to improve its effect. Aid agencies are always looking for new ways to improve aid effectiveness, including conditionality, capacity building and support for improved governance.\n\nThe international aid system was born out of the ruins of the Second World War, when the United States used their aid funds to help rebuild Europe. The system came of age during the Cold War era from the 1960s to the 1980s. During this time, foreign aid was often used to support client states in the developing world. Even though funds were generally better used in countries that were well governed, they were instead directed toward allies.\n\nAfter the end of the Cold War, the declared focus of official aid began to move further towards the alleviation of poverty and the promotion of development. The countries that were in the most need and poverty became more of a priority. Once the Cold War ended, Western donors were able to enforce aid conditionality better because they no longer had geopolitical interests in recipient countries. This allowed donors to condition aid on the basis that recipient governments make economic changes as well as democratic changes. It is against this background that the international aid effectiveness movement began taking shape in the late 1990s as donor governments and aid agencies began working together to improve effectiveness. \n\nThe aid effectiveness movement made progress in 2002 at the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico, which established the Monterrey Consensus. There, the international community agreed to increase its funding for development—but acknowledged that more money alone was not enough. Donors and developing countries alike wanted to know that aid would be used as effectively as possible. They wanted it to play its optimum role in helping poor countries achieve the Millennium Development Goals, the set of targets agreed by 192 countries in 2000 which aimed to halve world poverty by 2015. A new paradigm of aid as a partnership, rather than a one-way relationship between donor and recipient, was evolving.\n\nIn 2003, aid officials and representatives of donor and recipient countries gathered in Rome for the High Level Forum on Harmonization. At this meeting, convened by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), donor agencies committed to work with developing countries to better coordinate and streamline their activities at the country level. They agreed to take stock of concrete progress before meeting again in Paris in early 2005. In Paris, countries from around the world endorsed the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, a more comprehensive attempt to change the way donor and developing countries do business together, based on principles of partnership. Three years on, in 2008, the Third High Level Forum in Accra, Ghana took stock of progress and built on the Paris Declaration to accelerate the pace of change. The principles agreed upon in the declarations are, however, not always practiced by donors and multilateral bodies. In the case of Cambodia, two experts have assessed donor misbehaviour. \n\nThe results and details of these meetings have been documented to show the progression aid effectiveness from the various High level forums on aid effectiveness.\n\nEfforts to improve aid effectiveness have gained significant momentum in the health sector, due in large part to the work of the International Health Partnership (IHP+). Created in 2007, IHP+ is a group of partners committed to improving the health of citizens in developing countries. These partners work together to put international principles for aid effectiveness and development cooperation into practice. IHP+ mobilizes national governments, development agencies, civil society and others to support a single, country-led national strategy in a well-coordinated way.\n\nCritiques of the effect of aid have become more vociferous as the global campaigns to increase aid have gained momentum, particularly since 2000. There are those who argue that aid is never effective. Most aid practitioners agree that aid has not always worked to its maximum potential but that it has achieved significant effect when it has been properly directed and managed, particularly in areas such as health and basic education. There is broad agreement that aid is only one factor in the complex process needed for poor countries to develop and that economic growth and good governance are prerequisites. For aid to be maximized efficiently and most optimally, donations need to be directed to areas such as local industries, franchises, or profit centers in developing countries. By doing so, these actions can sustain health related spending and result in growth in the long run.\n\nThe OECD has explored—through peer reviews and other work by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)—the reasons why aid has and has not worked. This has resulted in a body of best practices and principles that can be applied globally to make aid work better. The ultimate aim of aid effectiveness efforts today is to help developing countries build well functioning local structures and systems so that they are able to manage their own development and reduce their dependency on aid.\n\nAs recognized by the OECD's Working Party on Aid Effectiveness, at the beginning of the 21st century it became apparent that promoting widespread and sustainable development was not only about amounts of aid given, but also about \"how\" aid was given.\n\nAid flows have significantly increased over the last decade, but at the same time aid has become increasingly fragmented. There has been an explosion in the number of donors, and while the number of projects has multiplied, their average size has dropped. Small projects being often limited in size, scope and duration, they result in little lasting benefit beyond the immediate effect. With more players, aid has become less predictable, less transparent and more volatile.\n\nInformation, at the donors' as well at the recipients' level, is often poor, incomplete and difficult to compare with other data, and beneficiaries' feedback and formal project evaluations are rare. Aid is predictable when partner countries can be confident about the amount and the timing of aid disbursement. Not being predictable has a cost: The deadweight loss associated with volatility has ranged on average from 10% to 20% of a developing country's programmable aid from the European Union in recent years.\n\nIn the past decade, the aid environment has dramatically changed. Emerging economies (China, India, Saudi Arabia, Korea, Turkey, Brazil, Venezuela, etc.), which are still receiving aid from Western countries, have become donors themselves. Multinational corporations, philanthropists, international NGOs and civil society have matured into major players as well. Even though the rise of new development partners had the positive effect of bringing an increased variety of financing, know-how and skills to the development community, at the same time it has shaken up the existing aid system. This is particularly true in the case of emerging economies, as they do not feel compelled to conform to traditional donors’ norms. Generally demanding conditionality in return for assistance, which means tying aid to the procurement of goods and services, they are challenging traditional development aid standards.\n\nThe governance of aid presents itself as complex, bureaucratized and fragmented, with evident diseconomies of numbers and coordination, which have meant an increase in transaction costs. This is true for recipient countries, forced to neglect their domestic obligations to cope with requests and meetings with donors (given the lack of capacity at the country level and the precedence given to responding to donor demands) but also for donors and, ultimately, for beneficiaries. In fact, each project has fixed costs of design, negotiation and implementation, which reduce dollars available for final beneficiaries.\n\nDespite the fact that the international community addressed the effectiveness issue through the Paris Declaration and the subsequent Accra Agenda for Action, the implementation of this agenda has been difficult. Governments and aid agencies have made commitments at the leadership level, but for the moment have done little more than pursuing top-down, aggregate targets. Decades of development have shown that if countries are to become less dependent on aid, they must follow a bottom-up approach, where they determine their own priorities and rely on their own systems to deliver that aid. There is broad consensus that aid could be managed more effectively, answering a call for program quality and accountability.\n\nWith more than $2.32 trillion spent in foreign aid over the last half-century and no equivalent effect in reducing poverty and conflict, and new crisis such as the recent famine in the horn of Africa, this call becomes particularly desperate. The publication on September 21, 2011 of the OECD-Development Assistance Committee's “Aid Effectiveness 2005-2010: Progress in Implementing the Paris Declaration” report, clearly demonstrates that only one out of the 13 targets established for 2010 was met.\n\nThe 4th High Level Forum (HLF) on Aid Effectiveness held in Busan, Korea, from November 29 to December 1, 2011, arrived at a crossroads in the context of international development cooperation. HLF-4 was expected to make recommendations on a future aid quality framework, at least for the period up to the MDG date of 2015.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has the primary function of coordinating the international community’s efforts for effective distribution of aid through the Development Assistance Committee or DAC. Under this committee is the Working Party on Aid Effectiveness which facilitates donor efforts to improve aid effectiveness in various related areas .The major international forum allows developing countries to collaborate with multilateral and bilateral donors. WP-EFF became instrumental in pushing initiatives geared toward the Millennium Development Goals. It also organized the Third High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Accra in September 2008.\n\nThe Working Party on Aid Effectiveness was tasked to measure and encourage progress for implementing commitments of the 2005 Paris Declaration and provided guidance on policy and good practice. The Working Party is composed of senior policy advisers from the 23 DAC member-nations, 23 developing countries, and 11 multilateral organisations. It has a unique “tripartite” chairing arrangement, including representatives of a bilateral donor organisation, multilateral organization and developing-country partner. This reflects the partnership commitments embodied in the Paris Declaration. The WP-EFF also coordinates actively with civil society organisations. To effectively cover its broad mandate, it established a number of Joint Ventures to examine particular areas of interest, including monitoring the Paris Declaration, public financial management, procurement, and managing for development results.\n\nThe DAC maintains and makes available unique and definitive statistics on the global aid effort. Its Working Party on Statistics tracks official development assistance over time, providing a firm basis for analytical work on aid trends and for assessments of aid effectiveness. Beyond the traditional OECD aid donors, its data collection also includes other official and private flows to developing countries.\n\nOther aid effectiveness work is carried out by the DAC’s networks—global foray that bring together experts.\n\nThe Network on Development Evaluation supports robust, informed and independent evaluation of aid activities. This Network promotes joint reviews of the effectiveness of aid, such as the Evaluation of the Implementation of the Paris Declaration. It also works to improve the standards and norms used in evaluations. The 30 Evaluation Network members include heads of evaluation from all DAC member countries and from the African Development Bank (AfDB), Asian Development Bank (ADB), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the World Bank.\n\nThe DAC’s Network on Gender Equality, GENDERNET, produces practical tools to help integrate gender equality and women’s empowerment into all aspects of development co-operation. It is currently focusing on the implementation of the Paris Declaration, designing a set of guiding principles to show how women’s empowerment can be clearly integrated into aid effectiveness efforts to increase their impact.\n\nThe Network on Environment and Development Co-operation, ENVIRONET, promotes and facilitates the integration of environment and climate change into all aspects of development co-operation, as called for by the Paris Declaration and the Accra Agenda for Action. Building on lessons learned and best practices, the Network works towards enhancing policy co-ordination and coherence to achieve more rapid progress towards the Millennium Development Goals and creating a successful shift towards “green growth”.\n\nThe DAC’s Network on Poverty Reduction, POVNET, promotes economic growth for poverty reduction, stressing the importance of both the rate and the pattern of growth, and works to ensure that growth is broad-based and inclusive. Subjects of workshops held by this network have included applying Paris Declaration principles in agriculture and infrastructure.\n\nThe Network on Governance and Capacity Development, GOVNET, helps donors to be more effective in supporting democratic governance. It offers a forum to exchange experiences and lessons, identify and disseminate good practice, and develop policy and analytical tools. It has produced important publications on themes such as fighting corruption, building institutions and ensuring human rights are placed at the centre of aid effectiveness efforts.\n\nThe Network on Situations of Conflict and Fragility brings together experts on governance and conflict prevention from bilateral and multilateral development co-operation agencies, including the EC, the UN system, the IMF, the World Bank and regional banks. It helps to improve development co-operation and coherent international action in situations where the Millennium Development Goals are undermined by threats of violent conflict, human insecurity, fragility, weak governance and instability.\n\nThe DAC also works on emerging issues in aid effectiveness. In 2008, it published the first in a new series of yearly surveys to tackle two major information gaps that hinder increased aid effectiveness: future spending intentions of donors, and the proliferation of aid donors. The results of these surveys will help donors make more informed decisions about where they should focus their aid, and to improve aid predictability at the country level. New analyses of historical information are also showing where there is donor fragmentation within a country, prompting donors to seek a better division of labour amongst themselves.\n\nThe DAC is working to build recognition among the development community that trade is an important tool for development. Its aim is to increase support for “aid for trade” activities—aid that helps build poor countries’ capacity to trade successfully. Experts from the DAC and the OECD Trade Committee are disseminating evidence of trade’s impact on development and creating an analytical toolbox for improving the design and implementation of aid-for-trade programmes. This includes strengthening the application of the Paris Declaration principles to trade-related aid activities.\n\nOrganization of Disaster Aid Delivery\n\nHow aid is delivered can affect the quality and quantity of aid. Often in disaster situations, international aid agencies work in hand with local agencies. There can be different arrangements on the role these agencies play, and such arrangement affects that quality of hard and soft aid delivered. \nMicro-Macro Paradox\n\nThe major findings by Paul Mosley and others conclude that it is impossible to establish any significant correlation between aid and growth rate of GNP in developing countries. One reason for this is the fungibility and the leakage of the aid into unproductive expenditure in the public sector.\n\nHowever, at a micro level, all donor agencies regularly report the success of most of their projects and programs. This contrast is known as the micro-macro paradox.\n\nMosley’s result was further confirmed by Peter Boone who argued that aid is ineffective because it tends to finance consumption rather than investments. Boone also affirmed the micro-macro paradox.\n\nOne challenge for assessing the effectiveness of aid is that not all aid is intended to generate economic growth. Some aid is intended for humanitarian purposes; some may simply improve the standard of living of people in developing countries.\n\nThe micro-macro paradox has also been attributed to inadequate assessment practices. For example, conventional assessment techniques often over-emphasize inputs and outputs without taking sufficient account of societal impacts. The shortcomings of prevalent assessment practices have led to a gradual international trend towards more rigorous methods of impact assessment.\n\nDead Aid\n\nNoted Zambian economist Dambisa Moyo has been a fierce opponent to development aid, and calls it “the single worst decision of modern developmental politics”. Her book, Dead Aid describes how aid has encouraged kleptocracies, corruption, aid-dependency and a series of detrimental economic effects and vicious downward spirals of development in Africa. She argues that foreign aid provides a windfall to governments which can encourage extreme forms of rent-seeking and through providing a positive shock of revenue, lead to Dutch Disease. Furthermore, this easy money offers governments an exit from the contract between them and their electorate: the contract that states that they must provide public goods in exchange for taxes. In short, it \"allows the state to abdicate its responsibilities toward its people\". It is important to note that Moyo alludes specifically to government bilateral and multilateral aid and not small-holder charity, humanitarian or emergency aid.\nHer prescriptions call for increased trade and foreign direct investment, emphasizing China’s burgeoning role in Africa. Moyo also makes a case for micro-financing schemes, as popularized by the widespread success of Grameen Bank, to spark entrepreneurship within the continent on the ground level, thus building from the bottom-up as opposed to the top-down approach aid takes.\n\nResearch by Burnside and Dollar (2000)\n\nBurnside and Dollar provide empirical evidence that the effect of aid on GDP growth is positive and significant in developing countries with \"sound\" institutions and economic policies (i.e. open trade, fiscal and monetary discipline); but aid has less or no significant effect in countries with \"poor\" institutions and policies. As economists at the World Bank, Burnside and Dollar advocated selectivity in aid allocation. They argue that aid should be systematically allocated to countries conditional on \"good\" policy.\n\nBurnside and Dollar’s findings have been placed under heavy scrutiny since their publication. Easterly and others re-estimated the Burnside and Dollar estimate with an updated and extended dataset, but could not find any significant aid-policy interaction term. New evidence seems to suggest that Burnside and Dollar’s results are not statistically robust.\n\nAid in the Absence of Accountable Governance\n\nRevenue generation is one of the essential pillars for developing state capacity. Effective taxation methods allow a state to provide public goods and services, from ensuring justice to providing education. Taxation simultaneously serves as a government accountability mechanism, building state-citizen relationships, as citizens can now expect such service provisions upon their consent to taxation. For developing and fragile states that lack such revenue capabilities, while aid can be a seemingly necessary alternative, it has the potential to undermine institutional development. States that rely on higher percentages of aid for government revenue are less accountable to their citizens by avoiding the state-citizen relationships that taxation builds and face fewer incentives to develop public institutions. The limited government capacity resulting from subpar institutional presence and effectiveness leads to: “ubiquitous corruption of state officials, large gaps between the law and actual practice in business regulation, workers who do not even show up, doctors that do not doctor, teachers who do not teach.”\n\nIn the absence of healthy institutions or accountable governance, Nathan Nunn and Nancy Qian establish a positive, causal link between U.S. food aid to African countries and the incidence of civil war. Their hypothesis reasons that food aid is fungible and a positive shock to government revenues, increasing the returns to the controlling government and therefore the potential for civil war as food can be easily monetized and used to fund conflict. The authors measured incidences of insurgency and conflict in East and Central Africa and their correlation with food aid, showing a positive and statistically significant relationship between the two. \n\nStudies and Literature on Aid Effectiveness\n\nOne problem of the studies on aid is that there is a lack of differentiation between the different types of aid. Some type of aids such as short-term aid do not affect economic growth while other aids used for infrastructure and investments will result in a positive economic growth. Different types of aid have also been shown to be more or less conditioned in their effects by recipients' quality of governance. For example, bilateral aid, aid in loans, and aid to the agricultural sector have been found to be mediated in their potentially positive effects on food security significantly more than multilateral aid, aid in grants, and aid to sectors other than agriculture. \n\nThe emerging stories from aid-growth literature are that aid is effective under a wide variety of circumstances and that nonlinearities in the effect of aid reduce the significance of the aid-growth relationship. However, returns to aid show diminishing returns possibly because of absorption capacity and other constraints. Also, geographically-challenged countries would display lower effectiveness with respect to aid and that should be taken into account in allocation.\n\nTherefore, the challenge to aid allocation is to identify and eliminate the overriding institutional and policy constraints that will reduce the effect of aid on growth. The real challenge is thus to develop a framework of ‘growth and development’ diagnostics to help identify the constraints. Stefan Schmitz believes that reporting duties, results-orientated action and ongoing performance assessments are essential for the sake of aid effectiveness, but political will must be already there for this to happen.\n\nMany scholars have debated whether foreign aid can result in regime change, either democratizing autocracies or turning democratic states into autocracies. Some of these scholars argue that when western donors condition aid so that recipient countries have to make democratic changes that these changes then lead to economic growth. Jakob Svensson found instead that governmental foreign aid can only be an effective source of economic growth in recipient countries who are already democratic.\n\nAid has quadrupled in the last 25 years, with the majority of aid still coming from official donors, and emerging giants such as China and India. In addition, money is being spent in different ways, for example on global programmes to combat specific issues, such as the control of malaria or measles. Overseas Development Institute work argues for a redress of the way in which aid is provided through:\n\nResearch on the Accra Agenda for Action and Paris Declaration\n\nResearch by the Overseas Development Institute based on in-person interviews with senior politicians and government officials in Ethiopia, Sierra Leone and Zambia suggests that the Accra Agenda for Action (AAA) and Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness's indicators are too narrowly defined and lack depth. The principles of \"predictability\" and \"transparency\" are highlighted as lacking depth and important sub-dimensions not given enough emphasis, for instance on adaptation to local contexts. The interviews revealed recipient governments felt \"predictability\" meant donors should provide funding within the quarters scheduled, the Paris Declaration work on an annual basis and makes no distinction between the first and fourth quarter. Also mentioned, were the differences between pledges and actual commitments, the need to speed up the approval process and the need to make explicit and achievable conditions on the aid, to prevent withholding of funds when minor conditions are not fully achieved. Transparency in the reasons for donors' decisions was also seen as very important, the need to be 'frank' about why less funding was disbursed than committed, why feedback from the recipient government was not taken on board, and why a given percentage of funds was earmarked for certain activities such as technical assistance (TA). The resulting conclusion from these interviews and other studies is that repeatedly, the three most important issues for donor recipients are:\nThose donor agencies highlighted by aid recipients as particularly attentive to these issues are the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank, followed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Asian Development Bank (AsDB).\n\nBeyond aid\n\nThere are an increasing number of studies and literature that argue aid alone is not enough to lift developing countries out of poverty. Whether or not aid actually significantly affects growth, it does not operate in a vacuum. An increasing number of donor country policies can either complement or hinder development, such as trade, investment, or migration. The Commitment to Development Index published annually by the Center for Global Development is one such attempt to look at donor country policies toward the developing world and move beyond simple comparisons of aid given. It accounts for not only the quantity but the quality of aid, penalizing nations that given large amounts of tied aid.\n\nRethinking the development aid model\n\nWith the rampant criticisms to aid, come a whole host of prescriptions for alternatives. Offered up, are numerous ways in which countries can move forward without aid or with drastically rethought ways of processing it. In African economist, James Shikwati’s words, the “African problem is best solved by the African people”. “If aid was stopped, the political elites would be the first casualties” as their well of easy cash would dry up. The need for a solution to Africa’s problems would sharply rise and the benefits of entrepreneurship and trade would come into focus.\nThe need to build healthy institutions comes into play as well.\n\nNoted Peruvian economist, Hernando De Soto, in his book, \"The Mystery of Capital\" also firmly asserts that Africa already has the resource wealth it needs to pull itself out of poverty, it just lacks the institutions that allow for the creation of wealth from these riches. Poor documentation of assets and the lack of property rights means that people cannot collateralize their assets, for example, if a farmer inhabits a tract of land that has been in his family for generations, in his view, for all intents and purposes, he owns the land. However he does not possess a title deed to the land that clearly demarcates the borders of his ownership, this means that he cannot put up this land as collateral to secure a loan. This simplistic example can help to explain why investment (and therefore growth) is inhibited, the spirit of entrepreneurship may be present, the tools to engage in it, however, are not. The answer therefore seems simple: create such institutions that provide transparent documentation of assets and allows them to be converted to liquidity with ease. In practice, however this may not be so simple and would involve major overhauls in the bureaucratic fabric of a state. How aid can help to foster better institutions then, becomes the main question.\n\nPaul Collier, in \"The Bottom Billion\", suggests a model he calls “Independent Service Authorities”. These are organizations, independent from the government, that co-opt civil society to manage aid and public money and incorporate the scrutiny of public opinion and NGOs to determine how to maximize output from the expenditure of this money.\n\nWilliam Easterly tells a story in \"The White Man’s Burden\", where he says that helping the approximate three million people infected with Malaria each year may not be as simple as sending nets over to Africa. A lot of the time, these nets are diverted to the black market and used for more entrepreneurial pursuits, for example, making fishing nets out of them. Easterly does go on to report however that when schemes are introduced where mosquito nets are available on the market for an affordable price, the usage of them increases drastically. He advocates the use of localized, tailored schemes like this to help the world’s poor and discounts ambitious overarching schemes that claim to be a complete panacea for poverty.\n\nDambisa Moyo devotes a whole section of her book, \"Dead Aid\" to rethinking the aid dependency model. She cautions that although “weaning governments off aid won’t be easy”, it is necessary. Primary among her prescriptions is a “capital solution” where African countries must enter the bond market to raise their capital for development, the interconnectedness that globalization has provided, will turn other “pools of money toward African markets in form of mutual funds, hedge funds, pension schemes” etc.\n\nAlthough a bleak picture is painted of aid, with it comes room for new solutions and new ways of thinking about development\n\nTied aid is defined as project aid contracted by source to private firms in the donor country. It refers to aid tied to goods and services supplied exclusively by donor country businesses or agencies. Tied aid increases the cost of assistance and has the tendency of making donors to focus more on the commercial advancement of their countries than what developing countries need. There are many ways aid can be designed to pursue the commercial objectives of donors. One of such pervasive means is by insisting on donor country products.\n\nOthers have argued that tying aid to donor-country products is common sense; it is a strategic use of aid to promote donor country’s business or exports. It is further argued that tied aid - if well designed and effectively managed - would not necessarily compromise the quality as well as the effectiveness of aid. However, this argument would hold particularly for programme aid, where aid is tied to a specific projects or policies and where there is little or no commercial interest. It must be emphasized, however, that commercial interest and aid effectiveness are two different things, and it would be difficult to pursue commercial interest without compromising aid effectiveness. Thus, the idea of maximizing development should be separated from the notion of pursuing commercial interest. Tied aid improves donors export performance, creates business for local companies and jobs. It also helps to expose firms, which have not had any international experience on the global market to do so.\n\nDespite decades of receiving aid and experiencing different development models (which have had very little success), many developing countries' economies are still dependent on developed countries, and are deep in debt. There is now a growing debate about why developing countries remain impoverished and underdeveloped after all this time. Many argue that current methods of aid are not working and are calling for reducing foreign aid (and therefore dependency) and utilizing different economic theories than the traditional mainstream theories from the West. Historically, development and aid have not accomplished the goals they were meant to, and currently the global gap between the rich and poor is greater than ever, though not everybody agrees with this.\n\nSome scholars argue the problem of development amongst many developing countries through socioeconomic perspectives which study how individuals form organizations amongst each other for all kinds of goals, such as economic matters. Scholars like North and Weingast claim that modern states are composed of natural states and open access order states whereby open access order states have more positive development than natural states, because in these states, legally binding institutions (rules of the game, customs) allow individuals to freely form impersonal organizations that can attract a large group of people who work or compete with each other economically. The more competition, the more wealth and growth is created. Examples of open access states are many Western countries like the United States and Germany.\n\nIn contrast, a natural state (which compromises much of the third world) consists of political elites who try to protect their special privileges by restricting access to the ability to form organizations amongst individuals. These elites must rely on personal communication and the threat of violence to both maintain order and recruit \"desirables\" into the organizations. Such a set-up not only weakens good governance (as leaders are less accountable) but also leads to weak institutions, where peace is not always assured, as those in control of the means to inflict violence simply restrain themselves out of trust or loyalty, and can easily resort to violence, as has happened in the past (e.g., Biafra against the rest of Nigeria, Bangladesh against the rest of Pakistan).\n\nThe Paris Declaration embodied a new, broad consensus on what needs to be done to produce better development results. Its principles lay open the possible ways to undertake, which can be interpreted also as the major objectives of good aid: fostering recipient countries' ownership of development policies and strategies, maximizing donors' coordination and harmonization, improving aid transparency and mutual accountability of donors and recipients, just to name a few.\n\nThe Accra Agenda for Action states that transparency and accountability are essential elements for development results, as well as drivers of progress. Mutual accountability and transparency is one of the five partnership commitments of the Paris Declaration. Through 'transparency', donors and recipients can be held accountable for what they spend and aid can be made more effective by knowing the three Ws of transparency:\n\nTransparency offers a valuable answer to insecurity, making aid \"predictable\" and \"reliable\". Transparency has been shown to improve service delivery and to reduce opportunities for diversion and therefore corruption.\n\nTransparency can be defined as a basic expression of mutual accountability. Mutual accountability can only work if there is a global culture of transparency that demands provision of information through a set of rules and behavioral norms, which are difficult to enforce in the case of official development cooperation. In particular for emerging economy donors and private development assistance, these norms are only at a nascent stage. Kharas suggest to adopt the \"regulation through information\" approach, which as been developed and has proven its effectiveness in the case of the European integration. In fact, at the international level, when the enforcement of mandatory rules is difficult, the solution could be to provide and make available transparent, relevant, accurate and reliable information, which can be used to reward or sanction individual aid agencies according to their performances. This means establishing a strong culture of accountability within aid, which rewards aid successes but penalizes failures.\n\nTo achieve this, literature on the topic suggest that donors should agree on adopting a standardized format for providing information on volume, allocation and results, such as the International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI), or other similar standards, and commit to improve recipient countries' databases with technical, financial and informational support. The format should be easily downloadable and with sufficient disaggregation to enable comparison with other data. Making aid data public and comparable among donors, would be likely to encourage a process of positive emulation towards a better usage of public funds. After all, official development assistance (ODA) is a voluntary transfer that depends on the support of donor country taxpayers. Donors should therefore consider improving the transparency and traceability of aid funds also as a way of increasing engagement and support toward aid inside their own country. Moreover, a generalized adoption of IATI would ensure the publication of aid information in a timely way, the compatibility with developing countries' budgets and the reliability of future projections, which would have a strong and positive effect on the predictability of aid.\n\nFinally, to improve accountability while building evaluation capabilities in aid recipient countries and systematically collecting beneficiaries’ feedback, different mechanisms to evaluate and monitor transparency should be considered, such as independent third-party reviews, peer reviews or mutual reviews.\n\nThe Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation (GPEDC) was created at the Fourth High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Busan in 2011. This platform brought together governments, bilateral and multilateral organisations, civil society and representatives from parliaments and the private sector, committed to strengthening the effectiveness of development co-operation to produce maximum impact for development. 161 countries and 56 organisations endorsed the creation of the Global Partnership in the 2011 Busan Partnership agreement.\n\nThrough its multi-stakeholder platform, the Global Partnership provides support, guidance and shares knowledge to boost development impact with a strong country focus, and to ensure a degree of coherence and collaboration among all development stakeholders on co-operation flows and policies. It offers a global mechanism to ensure co-operation is based on Busan principles of ownership, results, inclusiveness; and transparency and accountability to deliver tangible results on the post-2015 agenda. As a voluntary and multi-stakeholder forum, the Global Partnership plays a role in supporting implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. As noted in the UN Secretary General’s Synthesis report in 2015, the Global Partnership can “help review and strengthen the global partnership for sustainable development”.\n\nThe Global Partnership also tracks progress in the implementation of Busan commitments for more effective development co-operation, through its monitoring framework consisting of a set of 10 indicators, with most targets set for 2015. These indicators focus on strengthening developing country institutions, increasing transparency and predictability of development co-operation, enhancing gender equality, as well as supporting greater involvement of civil society, parliaments and private sector in development efforts.\n\nResults from the Global Partnership's 2016 monitoring round reveal important progress towards achieving the development effectiveness goals agreed in Busan in 2011 at the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness, especially in adopting a decisive focus on results for more impact at the country level, in setting good foundations for more effective partnerships amongst governments, civil society organisation and the private sector; in improving transparency by making more publicly available information on development co-operation available than ever before, and in enhancing national budgetary systems to better capture development co-operation flows and allocations for gender equality. In contrast, monitoring also reveal an overall need to adapt to a dynamic and evolving development landscape, as well as specific areas where concerted effort is required to enhance development partnerships and unlock existing bottlenecks, including: increasing the use of countries’ own systems to deliver, manage, and track the impact of development programmes; and making countries’ efforts to strengthen domestic institutions more effective. Engagement and accountability structures at country level around development co-operation also need to become more inclusive and transparent, in order to facilitate meaningful dialogue and joint action.\n\nThe International Health Partnership (IHP+) is a group of national governments, development partners, civil society and others committed to improving the health of citizens in developing countries. The initiative was launched in September 2007, bringing together 26 signatories to sign a Global Compact for achieving the health Millennium Development Goals. As of May 2012, 56 signatories have signed the Global Compact. The partnership is jointly administered by the World Health Organization and the World Bank.\n\nImproving health and health services is a complex task in any country. It involves coordination between governments, health workers, civil society, parliamentarians and other stakeholders. In developing countries, money for health comes from both domestic and external resources. This means governments must work with a range of international development partners. These are increasing in number, use different funding streams and have diverse bureaucratic demands. As a result, efforts can become fragmented and resources can be wasted.\n\nIHP+ puts international principles for aid effectiveness and development cooperation set forth in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, Accra Agenda for Action and Busan Partnership for Effective Development Co-operation into practice in the health sector by encouraging wide support for a single national health strategy or plan, a single monitoring and evaluation framework, and a strong emphasis on mutual partner accountability. The Partnership aims to build confidence between all in-country stakeholders whose activities affect health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17769959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17769959", "title": "Bad Boy Joe", "text": "Bad Boy Joe\n\nBad Boy Joe (born Joe Marcano in Brooklyn, New York) is an Italian-American DJ, producer and remixer. He's best known for his megamixes, which appeared on Louie DeVito's \"NYC Underground Party\", \"Dance Factory\" and \"Dance Divas\" mix series. He can be heard on WKTU from 5-6 and also on had a mixshow \"The Megamix\" every Saturday night from 11-midnight on Sirius Satellite Radio The Beat channel 36. After November 12, 2008, The Beat was replaced with BPM and is no longer on the channel. He also produces a series of shows and events for New York City's reigning Dance music station WKTU, more recently KTU's Beatstock. He owns his own record label entitled \"What If Productions\".\n\nIn 1999, he finally got his big break after catching the eye of another DJ around the New York area Louie DeVito, who hired Joe to help him with his \"NYC Underground Party\" mix series before releasing his own series of mixed compilation albums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32580615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32580615", "title": "Battle of Lérida (1938)", "text": "Battle of Lérida (1938)\n\nThe Battle of Lérida (1938) took place during the Spanish Civil War in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "8634292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8634292", "title": "Battle of Massawa (1977)", "text": "Battle of Massawa (1977)\n\nThe Battle of Massawa (also known as the First Battle of Massawa) took place from 1977 to 1978 in and around the coastal city of Massawa in Eritrea. The port was besieged by the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) against the forces of Ethiopia, and was one of two battles in and around the city.\n\nBy 1977 EPLF soldiers had claimed all of Massawa save the port itself. This included the main road used by the garrison for the transport of supplies from Asmara. Essentially the garrison was cut off by land and under siege.\n\nOn 23 December 1977, the EPLF began a strike through an open field towards the salt flats and port. Soviet warships began to shell EPLF-held portions of the town to prevent its occupation by the EPLF, especially the downtown areas. The Ethiopian victory was attributed to the intervention of the Soviet Union on behalf of Ethiopia. This defeat led to a withdrawal, dubbed the \"strategic withdrawal\", into Sahel, the strategic, EPLF-held mountaintops around the town of Nakfa. This battle was also the beginning of direct Soviet involvement in the Eritrean War of Independence, which would continue in other battles.\n\n"}
{"id": "51735783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51735783", "title": "Battle of Pyongyang (1950)", "text": "Battle of Pyongyang (1950)\n\nThe Battle of Pyongyang (17–19 October 1950) was one of the major battles of the United Nations' offensive during the Korean War. Following the Battle of Inchon, the UN forces re-captured Seoul, the capital of South Korea, and proceeded to advance north of the 38th parallel. Shortly after advancing, the American and South Korean forces faced the North Korean defenses near Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, on 17 October.\n\nNorth Korea's leadership and its main forces had already withdrawn to Kanggye, allowing the allied forces to capture Pyongyang on 19 October. The battle was followed by an airborne assault by the U.S. 187th Infantry Regiment north of Pyongyang, with the intention of cutting off North Korean units retreating from the city.\n\nAfter the Chinese Intervention the city came back into North Korean control by 5 December.\n\n"}
{"id": "14449589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14449589", "title": "Black Country Urban Park", "text": "Black Country Urban Park\n\nThe Black Country Urban Park is an ambitious proposal to transform the environment of the Black Country through positive action at an unprecedented scale.\n\nThe heart of the industrial revolution, the Black Country went into a serious economic decline in the 1980s, with the loss of almost all the heavy industry,especially metal founding. Having had the longest history of heavy industry of any urban area in the world the area was left with a legacy of dereliction and contamination. Combined with considerable economic deprivation - amongst the highest levels in the UK.\n\nThe aim of the Black Country Urban Park is to turn around the area's fortunes, making it a desirable place for businesses to relocate and reverse the current trend for outmigration.\n\nThe lead partners in the development of the Urban Park are Black Country Consortium, the Metropolitan Borough councils of Dudley, Sandwell and Walsall, Wolverhampton City Council, Wildlife Trust for Birmingham and the Black Country and British Waterways.\n\nThe Urban Park proposal was an unsuccessful, second place, contender for the Peoples £50 Million lottery competition organised by the BIG Lottery Fund.\n\n\nBlack Country Urban Park Partners:\n"}
{"id": "9598153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9598153", "title": "Blizanci", "text": "Blizanci\n\nBlizanci () is a Serbian musical duo. Its members are composed of twins Predrag and Nenad Jovanović, hence the name Blizanci (English: Twins).\n\nThe pair were born on 11 January 1977 in Stuttgart, West Germany. They lived in Pribojska Banja in Serbia and finished eight years of school there. They continued their education in Germany, where they studied music in the Conservatory for Accordions in Trossingen. In the last five years they played in clubs throughout Belgrade, Serbia and in other countries. Currently they are working as producer for different Serbian music labels. Predrag is also since the end of 2012 a member of the famous group LEXINGTON BAND as Pianist and Songwriter/Producer.\n\nThey have taken part in four festivals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35785651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35785651", "title": "Bomitaba language", "text": "Bomitaba language\n\nBomitaba (Mbomitaba) is a Bantu language of the Republic of Congo, with a couple hundred speakers in the Central African Republic.\n\nMaho (2009) lists the C141 Enyele (Inyele), C142 Bondongo, and C142 Mbonzo (Impfondo) languages, which do not have ISO codes, as being closest to Bomitaba.\n"}
{"id": "26615469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26615469", "title": "Butterflies (3+2 song)", "text": "Butterflies (3+2 song)\n\n\"Butterflies\" is a song, written by Maxim Fadeev, Robert Wells and Malka Chaplin and performed by Belarusian group 3+2, and was the Belarusian entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2010, held in Oslo, Norway in May 2010. 3+2 had been internally selected in March 2010 to represent Belarus in the contest by the Belarusian broadcaster BTRC, initially with the song \"Far Away\". However, on 19 March it was announced that 3+2 had changed their song for the contest, and would now be singing \"Butterflies\" in the first semi-final on 25 May. They qualified for the final, for the only second time in the history for Belarus (the first since 2007). However, in the final, they finished 24th out of 25. With three countries left to vote, they got 12 points from Georgia, thus they moved one place up and left the United Kingdom in last place.\n\n"}
{"id": "32907226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32907226", "title": "Cheval Gauvin", "text": "Cheval Gauvin\n\nThe Cheval Gauvin (French : Gauvin horse) is a legendary evil horse of Franche-Comté, France and the Jura Mountains in Switzerland. It is said to frequent watercourses, forests or cemeteries and to kill those who mount it by drowning them or throwing them into chasms.\n\nThe horse is mentioned close to Chamblay by Désiré Monnier from 1854. It is a harbinger of death, and appears to have been a kind of bogeyman for children. Possibly a transformed lutin (hobgoblin) it is one of a number of legendary horses of Jura. Jean-Louis Thouard depicted it in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "13072942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13072942", "title": "Coat of arms of Mide", "text": "Coat of arms of Mide\n\nMide or Meath, a medieval Irish province, is sometimes represented by a coat of arms comprising a monarch \"in majesty\": that is, seated on a throne on a field of azure (blue). The arms of Mide appear alongside those of the four modern provinces on a 1651 map of Galway. The arms reflect the fact that Tara, the seat of the High King of Ireland, was in Mide. This symbolism is derived from iconography rather than classical heraldry; mediaeval royal seals portrayed a majesty on the obverse and the arms of the sovereign on the reverse. The sceptre, here shown to have six oval nodules, represented power, and the outstretched right hand justice; both of these were royal prerogatives. \nThe old province of Meath is nearly coextensive with the present-day Diocese of Meath. The arms of Meath were apparently used at one time as the arms of Ireland, but with the majesty on a field of sable (black) instead of azure.\n\nMeath GAA uses a logo incorporating the arms. The arms of Meath County Council are an unrelated design.\n"}
{"id": "12799112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12799112", "title": "Colgado de un sueño", "text": "Colgado de un sueño\n\n\"Colgado de un sueño\" (, \"Hanging From a Dream\") was the Spanish entry for the Eurovision Song Contest in the year 2000. It was performed by the blind singer and pianist Serafín Zubiri, who had finished fourteenth for Spain in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest with \"Todo esto es la música\". It was written by José María Purón, who had previously written \"Vuelve conmigo\", the runner up song in the Eurovision Song Contest 1995 representing Spain.\n\nThe song, which had a gentle verse and catchy chorus, was about the power of dreams, and how nothing is impossible in dreams. Zubiri also recorded an English language version of the song, entitled \"Dancing on Rainbows\".\n\nOn stage in Stockholm Zubiri accompanied himself on piano, dressed all in black and wearing dark glasses. He was accompanied by four backing singers; two women in lilac gowns and two men in black suits.\n\nThe song was performed 13th on the night, following Iceland's August & Telma with \"Tell Me!\" and preceding Denmark's Olsen Brothers with \"Fly on the Wings of Love\". At the close of voting it had received 18 points, finishing in equal 18th place in a field of 24.\n\nThe song was succeeded as Spanish representative at the 2001 Contest by David Civera singing \"Dile que la quiero\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37671386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37671386", "title": "Dacian fortress of Crivești", "text": "Dacian fortress of Crivești\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "46965109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46965109", "title": "Dalit studies", "text": "Dalit studies\n\nDalit studies is a new field of research in India which looks at the problem of marginalised groups, namely Dalits, tribals, religious minorities, women from excluded groups, denotified tribes, physically challenged and similar groups in economic, social and political spheres. Dalit studies scholars also undertake research on the nature and forms of discrimination and social exclusion faced by marginalised groups.\n\nThe broad objectives of Dalit studies can be delineated as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "73423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73423", "title": "Dead Birds (1963 film)", "text": "Dead Birds (1963 film)\n\nDead Birds is a 1963 documentary film by Robert Gardner about the Dani people of New Guinea. It was produced as part of the Harvard-Peabody Expedition to study the highlands of New Guinea, at that time one of the few remaining areas in the world uncolonized by Europeans.\n\nThe premiere of Dead Birds took place at the Loeb Drama Center at Harvard University in October 1963.\nIn 1998, this film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nThe film's title is borrowed from a Dani fable that Gardner recounts in voice-over. The Dani people, whom Gardner identifies mysteriously as \"a mountain people,\" believe that there was once a great race between a bird and a snake, which was to determine the lives of human beings. Should men shed their skins and live forever like snakes, or die like birds? The bird won the race, dictating that man must die.\n\nThe film's plot revolves around two characters, Weyak and Pua. Weyak is a warrior who guards the frontier between the land of his tribe and that of the neighboring tribe. Pua is a young boy whom Gardner depicts as weak and inept.\n\nThough stylistically impressive, \"Dead Birds\" has been criticized with respect to its authenticity. The characters who speak in the film are never subtitled, and even then the voice itself is not always what it seems. What the audience perceives as Weyak's voice is actually a post-filming dub of Karl G. Heider speaking Dani. Gardner himself did not speak Dani, and so all his interpretations of events are second-hand. The battle sequences are made up of many shots taken during different battles and stitched together to give the appearance of temporal unity. The apparent continuity stems from the post-synchronized sound, and in fact all the sound in the film is post-synched. Heider, himself, admits in his book \"Ethnographic Film\", that some of the battle films were edited out of sequence, intercut with scene from the women at the salt pool, which was also taken at a different time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43545526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43545526", "title": "Diocese of Blaundus", "text": "Diocese of Blaundus\n\nThe Diocese of Blaundus is a titular See of the Roman Catholic Church in the provence of Lydia (Turkey). Its Cathedral is located at Blaundus the ruins known today as \"Sülümenli\", near Ulubey in Uşak Province, Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "918158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918158", "title": "Direct applicability", "text": "Direct applicability\n\nA concept of European Union constitutional law that relates specifically to \"regulations\", direct applicability (or the characteristic of regulations to be \"directly effective\") is set out in Article 288 (ex Article 249) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (as amended by the Lisbon Treaty).\n\nAlthough often confused with the doctrine of direct effect, direct applicability refers to the fact that regulations require no implementing legislation within individual member states - they take effect as soon as they are published by the European Commission.\n\nThis confusion is perhaps explained by reference to the treaty provision governing regulations which provides that they, and only they, have \"direct applicability\" within the member states. The early jurisprudence of the ECJ suggested that 'direct effect' was a consequence of direct applicability as it was thought that the drafters of the original treaty intended regulations, and only regulations, to be directly effective. However, the expansion of the doctrine of direct effect to include directives and other measures served to create a distinction between direct applicability and direct effect. \"Direct applicability\" is now taken to mean that regulations require no domestic implementation - if direct effect was only ever intended to be a consequence of direct applicability then the relationship has been severed by a series of ECJ cases.\n"}
{"id": "3099893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099893", "title": "Dubai Drydocks", "text": "Dubai Drydocks\n\nDubai Drydocks is a dry docks facility located adjacent to Port Rashid in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The idea for Dubai Drydocks began in 1971. After feasibility studies and construction, the facility opened in 1983. It is the only large dry docks facility in the Persian Gulf. Since it opened, the yard has repaired over 6000 vessels with a combined tonnage of 500 million tons. The Dubai Drydocks have been building new ships since 1994, and have since completed over 70 projects. The dry dock also contains the Middle East's largest floating crane.\n\n"}
{"id": "44561841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44561841", "title": "Free TV Alliance", "text": "Free TV Alliance\n\nThe Free TV Alliance is a collaboration between the four major European free digital satellite television broadcasters to promote free satellite TV and the technology used in its broadcasts and reception\n\nThe aims of the alliance are 'to promote the harmonisation of satellite TV services and technology across Europe' to support the growth of free TV services in Europe and to make the manufacturer of reception equipment easier and cheaper. In particular the Free TV Alliance intends to establish 'common service approaches, open source specifications and preferred technologies that work across all products in all markets'.\n\nThe Free TV Alliance is made up of the four main European free-to-air and free-to-view satellite broadcasters.\n\nThe free-to-air digital satellite television joint venture between the BBC and ITV plc to serve the United Kingdom. Formed in 2007, Freesat broadcasts in SD and HD from the Astra 28.2°E position.\n\nThe free-to-view package of high-definition digital satellite TV channels for German-speaking viewers owned by SES. Founded in 2009, HD+ broadcasts from the Astra 19.2°E position.\n\nThe free-to-view package of SD and HD channels broadcast to residents of France who cannot receive the digital terrestrial TV channels. Fransat broadcasts from the Eutelsat 5 West A satellite.\n\nA package of free-to-air and free-to-view Italian-language channels available on national TV networks, owned by a consortium of Italian communications companies including RAI. Formed in 2009, Tivù Sat broadcasts from the Eutelsat Hot Bird satellites.\n\nThe formation of the Free TV Alliance was announced at the 2014 IBC broadcasting show in Amsterdam on September 12, 2014 as a partnership between Freesat, Fransat and Tivù Sat. Germany's HD+ was slated to be a founding member but was not included at this time.\n\nHD+ announced that it had joined the Free TV Alliance on October 29, 2014.\n\nIn March 2015, the Free TV Alliance issued its first suite of technical specifications, offering a common way for an operator’s mobile app to control the TV viewing experience on the TV screen, aimed at harmonising the technology across Europe and removing complexities for equipment manufacturers.\n\nFree satellite TV services (i.e. not pay-TV) in Europe take the form of either free-to-air (FTA) or free-to-view (FTV) broadcasts. Free-to-air services are transmitted in the clear without encryption and can be received by anyone with a suitable receiving dish antenna and DVB-compliant receiver. These services can include proprietary data services such as an EPG that is only available to reception equipment made for, or authorised by, the FTA broadcaster. Free-to-view services are broadcast encrypted and can only be viewed with reception equipment that includes a suitable conditional-access module and viewing card, in the same way as a pay-TV satellite service. However, the FTV service viewing card is usually a means to restrict access to the service to a specific geographic area or to pay for the delivery of the platform as a whole and not to authorise viewing of individual channels or packages of channels, and may be made available for a regular fee, a one-off payment or even for free.\n\nHD+, in particular, has come in for criticism for describing itself as Free-to-view and joining the Free TV Alliance because of the service fee charged for its viewing cards. However, that all the HD+ channels are also available free to Sky Deutschland HD subscribers underlines that the HD+ service fee is for the provision of the platform, as explained in 2009 by Ferdinand Kayser, then president and CEO of SES Astra, \"The fact that a free TV channel, financed by advertising or public fees, is encrypted, does not mean that it becomes a pay-TV channel. Cable TV, for example, is also not pay-TV just because the access to the cable costs money. The same applies to public TV for which you have to pay a [licence] fee. And the same principle applies to HD+: the annual cost ... is a service fee ... which is related to the reception of the offer and not to specific content, parts or packages of the offer.”\n\n"}
{"id": "53373847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53373847", "title": "Good Lovin' (Benjamin Ingrosso song)", "text": "Good Lovin' (Benjamin Ingrosso song)\n\n\"Good Lovin\" is a song recorded by Swedish singer Benjamin Ingrosso. The song was released as a digital download in Sweden on 25 February 2017 and peaked at number 11 on the Swedish Singles Chart. It took part in Melodifestivalen 2017, and qualified to the final from the second semi-final on 11 February 2017. It was written by Ingrosso, Louis Schoorl, Matt Parad, and MAG.\n\nA music video to accompany the release of \"Good Lovin'\" was first released onto YouTube on 1 March 2017 at a total length of two minutes and fifty-nine seconds.\n"}
{"id": "14106663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14106663", "title": "Hoe schoon is jouw Huis?", "text": "Hoe schoon is jouw Huis?\n\nHoe schoon is jouw Huis? (\"How Clean is Your House?\") is the Dutch version of the British television show \"How Clean is Your House?\". It is presented by mother and daughter Liny van Oyen and Marja Middeldorp, and is broadcast by the Dutch channel RTL4.\n"}
{"id": "7773720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7773720", "title": "Huncovce", "text": "Huncovce\n\nHuncovce (; , , Unsdorf, , ) is a village and municipality in Kežmarok District in the Prešov Region of north Slovakia.\n\nThe municipality lies at an altitude of 639 metres and covers an area of 13.262 km².\nIt has a population of about 2400 people.\n\n\n\nThe records for genealogical research are available at the state archive \"Statny Archiv in Levoca, Slovakia\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22011815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22011815", "title": "Iavoloha Palace", "text": "Iavoloha Palace\n\nIavoloha Palace is the official residence of the President of Madagascar. It is situated 15 km to the south from the capital Antananarivo. Iavoloha was modeled on the Rova of Antananarivo.\n\n"}
{"id": "33194936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33194936", "title": "Icon in Me", "text": "Icon in Me\n\nIcon in Me (\"iMi\") is a Russian metal band.\n\nThe band formed in 2007 in Moscow, Russia. The group is composed of members Tony JJ (vocals), D.Frans (guitar), Artyom (bass) and Morten (drums). The band's debut album was released in 2009. Musicians played concerts together with well-known groups such as Machine Head and Lamb of God. Icon in me has released two albums and four singles to date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10366625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10366625", "title": "Ilevo", "text": "Ilevo\n\nIlevo is a Swedish global company. In its early stage, the company was developed as a spin-off of Ericsson, with a focus on IP and telecommunication expertise. In 2003, Ilevo joined Schneider Electric and split its location, with a back office in Karlstad (Sweden) and a front office in Grenoble (France). Today, the company has grown into a world specialist of PLC (Power Line Communication), a broadband communications technology (also known as BPL - Broadband over Power Line) using the power grids to carry multimedia and energy services.\n\n"}
{"id": "4062527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4062527", "title": "International Programme on Chemical Safety", "text": "International Programme on Chemical Safety\n\nThe International Programme on Chemical Safety (IPCS) was formed in 1980 and is a collaboration between three United Nations bodies, the World Health Organization, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations Environment Programme, to establish a scientific basis for safe use of chemicals and to strengthen national capabilities and capacities for chemical safety.\n\nA related joint project with the same aim, IPCS INCHEM, is a collaboration between IPCS and the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety (CCOHS).\n\nThe IPCS identifies following as \"chemicals of major public health concern\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14281920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14281920", "title": "John King Davis", "text": "John King Davis\n\nJohn King Davis, CBE (19 February 18848 May 1967) was an English-born Australian explorer and navigator notable for his work captaining exploration ships in Antarctic waters as well as for establishing meteorological stations on Macquarie Island in the subantarctic and on Willis Island in the Coral Sea.\n\nDavis's formal education, at Colet Court, London, and at Burford Grammar School, Oxfordshire, ended in 1900, when he and his father left London for Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nDavis served as Chief Officer of the \"Nimrod\" during Ernest Shackleton's Antarctic expedition in 1908–1909. He was Captain of the \"Aurora\" and second in command of Douglas Mawson's Australasian Antarctic Expedition in 1911–1914.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I in August 1914, Davis volunteered for active service, and was put in charge of the troop transport HMAT \"Boonah\", carrying troops and horses to Egypt and England.\n\nHe also served as Captain of the \"Discovery\" in 1929–1930 in the course of the British Australian and New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition.\n\nDavis was Australia's Commonwealth Director of Navigation from 1920 to 1949. It was at the beginning of this period that he volunteered to personally set up the remote Willis Island meteorological and cyclone warning station in 1921–22.\n\nDavis was President of the Royal Society of Victoria 1945–46, as well as being a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society. Davis Station in Antarctica, established in 1957, is named after him.\n\nHe was awarded the Polar Medal three times: in 1909, 1917, and 1934.\n\nIn 1964 he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE).\n\nThe Davis Sea, located off the Antarctic coast between longitudes 82°E and 96°E, is named after him.\n\nJohn King Davis died in 1967 in Toorak, Melbourne, aged 83.\n\nBooks authored by Davis include:\n"}
{"id": "2410814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2410814", "title": "Joukahainen", "text": "Joukahainen\n\nJoukahainen () is a character in the Kalevala, the Finnish epic poem of fifty parts. He is the rival of the main character, Väinämöinen. After losing a singing contest, he pledges his sister Aino to Väinämöinen, but she drowns herself rather than marry him. Joukahainen, still envious of Väinämöinen, then shoots the stag of his rival from under him, plunging him into the waters of Pohjola.\n\nIn the original translation into English (by John Martin Crawford (1888)) this character's name was Anglicised as Youkahainen.\n"}
{"id": "33231157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33231157", "title": "Liechtenstein–Switzerland relations", "text": "Liechtenstein–Switzerland relations\n\nDiplomatic relations between Switzerland and Liechtenstein have been close due to Switzerland's role in safeguarding the interests of its smaller neighbour, Liechtenstein.\n\nAt the request of Liechtenstein's government in 1919, Switzerland safeguards Liechtenstein's interests and citizens abroad. The two form a common economic and monetary area (Liechtenstein has used the Swiss franc (since 1920) and has had a customs union (since 1924) with Switzerland) with open borders (though both are now also party to the Schengen Agreement). The countries also have a common patent system. Switzerland is empowered to enter into treaties on Liechtenstein's behalf if Liechtenstein is not represented at the treaty negotiations; this power has most often been exercised with treaties involving customs duties or procedures.\n\nSwiss consular protection is extended to citizens of Liechtenstein. Switzerland represents Liechtenstein abroad unless they choose otherwise. Before Liechtenstein became a member in its own right of the European Free Trade Association, Switzerland represented its interests in that organization.\n\nThe two also share a common language (German) and are both outside the European Union. Liechtenstein relies on Switzerland for its national defence as it has no army of its own. Like its neighbour, it maintains a policy of neutrality. Ambassadors to one country are usually accredited to both (the only one resident in the country is from the Sovereign Military Order of Malta).\n\nSwitzerland has a relatively active military due to ongoing conscription. Several incidents have occurred during routine training:\n\n\n\nLiechtenstein's standard rate of VAT (Mehrwertsteuer) is identical to Switzerland's for it must mirror the latter's continually and is currently 7.7%. The reduced rate is 2.5%. A special reduced rate of 3.7% is in use in the hotel industry.\n\nIn July 2015, both countries signed a new agreement on double taxation, which took effect in December 2016, superseding the previous one from 1995. Some differences on the withholding tax arose, but Switzerland did not agree to introduce this practice to residents of Liechtenstein working in Switzerland. \n\nIn November 2016, the parliament of the principality decided with a large majority to introduce an agreement of automatic information exchange with 27 new treaty partners, including Switzerland. Data collection will start in 2018, and effectual exchange of account information is planned for 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "23119677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23119677", "title": "Local economic development", "text": "Local economic development\n\nLocal Economic Development (LED) is an approach to economic development, of note in the developing world that, as its name implies, places importance on activities in and by cities, districts and regions. This involves added micro-economic measures at the local level to complement macro-economic measures at the national level. LED encompasses a range of disciplines including physical planning, economics and marketing, all with the goal of building up the economic capacity of a local area to improve its economic future and the quality of life for all.\n\nAccording to the International Labour Organization (ILO), national and local governments, as well as enterprises and other organisations have to rethink development strategies to cope with ongoing events such as globalization. In contrast to traditional development policies, Local Economic Development strategies promote local dialogue and enable people to be more proactive; help to make local institutions better contribute to development; make economic activity dependent on the comparative advantages of a specific territory, generating development by firms more capable to withstand changes in the global economic environment rather than top-down development imposed by national planners. Economic development activities in developing countries tend to be unidisciplinary, initiated and implemented by just one ministry or agency. An advantage of LED approaches is that they facilitate a multidisciplinary approach. South Africa has been particularly active in promoting the concept.\n\nMany LED interventions in South Africa have taken a direct pro-poor intervention, leading to questions regarding whether this approach is more effective in terms of poverty relief than the spin-offs of more pro-growth focused endeavours.The Microeconomic Reform Strategy is a central component of the 2005 policy guidelines for implementing LED in South Africa. This strategy seeks to address the inequalities in the country and to build on the RDP (Reconstruction and Development Program), by focusing on issues of the geographical spread of activity, integration, black economic empowerment, knowledge-led growth, skills development and state responsiveness.\n\nIn addition to the laws and policies directly supporting and encouraging pro-poor \nLED, other instruments, such as Integrated Development Planning, provide additional support for implementation. Integrated Development Planning is a key process used within LED, which looks toward the use of planning to situate pro-poor development and LED specifically. The South African Forum for Effective Planning and Development in 1995 defined Integrated Development Planning as, ‘A participatory approach to integrate economic, sectoral, spatial, social, institutional, environmental and fiscal strategies in order to support the optimal allocation of scarce resources between sectors and geographical areas and across the population in a manner that provides sustainable growth, equity and the empowerment of the poor and the marginalised’(DPLG, 15).\n\nIn terms of what an 'Integrated Development Plan' (IDP) should include, the Municipal Systems Act clearly brings out the pro-poor dimensions of government thinking. The Act states that an integrated development plan must reflect:\n\n\nIt is suggested that IDP can assist in the promotion of socio-economic development in at least three ways; first, in helping to attract funds from other spheres of government, donor organisations and investors through defining and packaging attractive projects and programmes; secondly in helping to create an environment that is conducive to private sector investment and the general promotion of LED; and thirdly, by proposing direct interventions in the economy through, for example, providing incentives, developing economic infrastructure, and buying, developing and leasing/selling land,(DPLG 2000, 25).\n\nA participatory approach to LED involves the inclusion of different stakeholders so that their views, concerns and issues can be included in the planning process. This is important because it is here that networks, partnerships and information sharing occur that make better, more practical, strategies possible.\n\nVariables to be considered when conducting this inventory should reflect the components of a functioning economy, such as human and social capital, financial capital, physical capital and natural capital (UN Habitat,10).\n\nIn South Africa, municipalities are specifically required to involve communities in the affairs of the municipality, to provide services in a financially sustainable manner and to promote development. For instance, public participation is a key element of the Systems Act, and municipalities are obliged to establish mechanisms for public participation and participatory governance.\n\nThere is entrenched policy support for pro-poor development in South Africa – often being the primary focus of municipal vision/mission statements. In many cases it is treated as the partner of pro-growth/economic growth interventions. This situation is to be welcomed and reflects both local imperatives and responsiveness and local adherence to nationally identified objectives.\n\nGiven the dual challenges faced by South African society of needing to address both chronic poverty, yet also to achieve economic growth and global competitiveness, from a policy perspective it would seem that the approach adopted by Mangaung, Cape Town and eThekwini is most appropriate. These municipalities took a middle of the road approach, focusing their LED strategy on addressing both issues of poverty and growth and the fundamental linkages between the two (World Bank, 2005, 75). The following case studies present pro-growth endeavours that have led to tangible pro-poor driven growth:Johannesburg’s Fashion District; eThekwini's regeneration projects; Ingwe's rail-based tourism initiatives.\n\nThese case studies show that pro-poor, community-based initiatives that are market linked, providing a viable product and operating in an economically effective fashion, can help disadvantaged community members to effectively participate in the market economy. Similarly, community-based service provision and labour-intensive employment is an effective mechanisms to extend services and create employment and business opportunities for the poor (World Bank, 2005, 78).\n\nLand-use planning and development control serve as measurable tools for LED. The assignment of property rights in land and third party enforcement are essential for the efficient operation of markets. Public intervention ensures the separation of incompatible land-uses, integrated planning and development of synergistic land uses, and the 'public goods' aspect of necessary public facilities, open space and infrastructure investment (Lai, 1994, 78-80). Land use planning and development control are essential for the existence and operation of land and property markets (Alexander, 48). For instance, the assignment of and control over land uses will generally reduce transaction costs and can create or enlarge markets (Lai, 1994, 91).\n\nThe following are a list of public land use and development controls that the Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing lists as useful methods in promoting economic development.\n\nZoning by-laws are used to specify matters such as density, uses of land, parking requirements and form-related standards – including building heights, lot coverage, setbacks, minimum lot sizes, and other building envelope specifications. To keep pace with market conditions and to create higher-quality built environments, flexible and context-relevant standards can be implemented to support economic development goals.\n\nMunicipalities can require that facilities, services and matters, as set out in an official plan and by-law, be provided in return for an increase in building height and/or density. This exchange might include streetscape and design elements – for example, protected bicycle parking, outdoor seating, non-slip pedestrian surfaces or public art – in support of municipal placemaking and economic development objectives.\n\nMore efficient built forms can be achieved through by-law standards for minimum and maximum building height and density. Community resources such as nearby services, public transit, utilities, and existing road and sidewalk networks and greenspaces, can be used more effectively while expanding the number of potential customers for area businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "40375970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40375970", "title": "Léré Airport", "text": "Léré Airport\n\nLéré Airport is a public use airport located near Léré, Mayo-Kebbi Ouest, Chad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29652628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29652628", "title": "Manifesta", "text": "Manifesta\n\nManifesta, the roving European Biennial of Contemporary Art, is a European pan-regional contemporary cultural biennale.\n\nThe Manifesta Biennial Festival was created in 1994.\n\nThe 2006 edition of Manifesta was set to happen in Nicosia, Cyprus under the direction of Florian Waldvogel, Mai Abu ElDahab, and Anton Vidokle. In June 2006, Nicosia for Art, the city-run nonprofit organization sponsoring the exhibition, cancelled the event due to political turmoil around the green line of Nicosia.\n\nThe 10th edition of Manifesta in Saint Petersburg in Russia created tensions as the government just prohibited \"gay propaganda\".\n\nThe Manifesta Biennial is owned and organized by Amsterdam-based International Foundation Manifesta (IFM).\n"}
{"id": "2819350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819350", "title": "Military history of Austria", "text": "Military history of Austria\n\nThe Military Frontier was an important way in which Austria defended itself against the Ottomans.\nThe following shown below is a history of the Austrian military history.\n\nFrom 1804 to 1867, the Imperial and Royal Army (\"Kaiserlich-königliche Armee\"), as well as the navy were members of the Austrian Empire (1804–1867).\n\nFrom 1867 to 1918, The Austro-Hungarian Army was the ground force of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It was composed of the common army (recruited from everywhere), the Austrian Landwehr (recruited only from Cisleithania), and the Hungarian Honvéd (recruited only from Transleithania).\n\nThese are official names in German:\n\n\nThis army existed from the establishment of the Dual Monarchy in 1867 until the end of World War I in 1918.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Navy was the naval force of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Its official name in German was the \"Kaiserlich und königliche Kriegsmarine\" (\"Imperial and Royal Navy\", also known by the acronym k.u.k.).\n\nBetween 1918 and 1921, the military forces were known as \"Volkswehr\" (people's defence).\n\nFrom 1921 to the present (except World War II, (1938–1945)), the name of the Military of Austria is Bundesheer (\"Federal Army\"). The branches are Land Forces (KdoLdSK) and Air Forces (KdoLuSK).\n\nIn 1955, Austria declared its everlasting neutrality and made neutrality a constitutional law. The main purpose of the Austrian military, since then, has been the protection of Austria's neutrality.\n\n"}
{"id": "38773958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38773958", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Ivory Coast)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Ivory Coast)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (, MESRS) is a ministry of the Ivory Coast (Côte d'Ivoire).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1553938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553938", "title": "Nux (newspaper)", "text": "Nux (newspaper)\n\nNux is the official student newspaper of the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Started in 1934 on the Pietermaritzburg campus, it is the oldest student newspaper in South Africa. The newspaper is primarily funded by the university, and 8000 copies are distributed to students across all campuses of the University of KwaZulu-Natal free of charge. Eight issues, of 16 pages each, are distributed per year. The content is created almost entirely by students, from journalism to design.\n\nThe name had its origins in the acronym Natal University Campus Chronicles (NUCCs), which became transformed into NUX, by homophony and rotation of the C's.\n\nThe Executive body sits in Pietermaritzburg, and is editorially independent of the university and its structures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29188418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29188418", "title": "Poste Vaticane", "text": "Poste Vaticane\n\nPoste Vaticane is an organization responsible for postal service in Vatican City. The organization is part of the Post and Telegraphy Service.\n\n\"Poste Vaticane\" consists of the Philatelic and Numismatic Office of the Vatican City State. \"Poste Vaticane\" started operations on 1 August 1929 and operates four branch offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "19316285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19316285", "title": "Prista Oil", "text": "Prista Oil\n\nPrista Oil () is a Bulgarian company headquartered in the city of Rousse and mainly engaged in the production of 150 kinds of motor oils and industrial lubricants, as well as their distribution, transport and storage, cleaning petroleum pollution and the production and recycling of car batteries.\n\nThe company was established in 1993 by the brothers Atanas Bobokov and Plamen Bobokov. In 1998, it was joined by the Montana-based Monbat AD car battery factory. Prista Oil acquired the formerly national Seawater Purity Maintenance Enterprise based in Varna. Prista Oil produces Texaco and Valvoline-branded motor oils. The company has introduced an quality control system since 1998 and an environment protection system since 2002.\n\nBesides its Bulgarian operations, Prista Oil is also active in Romania, Hungary, Ukraine, Serbia, Montenegro and the Republic of Macedonia as a distributor and owns a production facility in İzmit, Turkey. The company has a terminal at the Ukrainian port of Odessa.\n\n"}
{"id": "13018276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13018276", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mahagi–Nioka", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mahagi–Nioka\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Mahagi–Nioka () is a diocese located in the city of Mahagi–Nioka in the Ecclesiastical province of Kisangani in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9201988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9201988", "title": "Sarh Airport", "text": "Sarh Airport\n\nSarh Airport () is an airport serving Sarh, Chad.\n"}
{"id": "41223287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41223287", "title": "Seychelles National Archives", "text": "Seychelles National Archives\n\nThe Seychelles National Archives is the national archive of Seychelles and is located in Mahé. Their mission is to \"collect, preserve and make accessible archival documents of enduring value through the use of the latest information technology.\"\n\nIt was officially created in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18857033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18857033", "title": "State Attorney (Israel)", "text": "State Attorney (Israel)\n\nThe State Attorney office (, \"Praklitut Hamedinah\") is one of the central bodies governing law in Israel, and the main body representing the State of Israel in court. The State of Israel, because of the different bodies which it is composed of, needs legal representation inasmuch as it prosecutes, in criminal law, and as it sues or is sued in civil law.\n\n"}
{"id": "3125549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125549", "title": "The Beat Fleet", "text": "The Beat Fleet\n\nThe Beat Fleet, also known as TBF, is a band from Split, Croatia, founded in 1990. Members of the band are: Aleksandar Antić (vocals, lyrics, samples, harmonica), Mladen Badovinac (vocal, samples), Luka Barbić (vocals, keyboards, samples), Ognjen Pavlović (bass guitar), Nikša Mandalinić, (electric guitar), Nikola Vidović (drums). They published six albums.\n\nThe Beat Fleet are widely considered to be one of the most innovative experimental bands in Croatia and wider area. They are heavily influenced by reggae, the British trip hop scene, electronic and experimental music. With years their built new style of music was named Ping Pong. Ping pong is mixture of reggae, afro beat, hip hop, rap rock, alternative rock, dub and British trip hop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30779740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30779740", "title": "Treaty of Eger", "text": "Treaty of Eger\n\nThe Treaty of Eger (), also called Main Compromise of Eger (\"Hauptvergleich von Eger\") or Peace of Eger () was concluded on 25 April 1459 in the Imperial City of Eger (\"Cheb\"), administrative seat of the immediate pawn of Egerland (\"Reichspfandschaft Eger\"). The treaty established the border between the Kingdom of Bohemia and the Electorate of Saxony on the main ridge of the Ore Mountains stretching from Eger to the River Elbe. The border remains largely unchanged up to today, separating the Czech Republic and Germany, and is thus one of the oldest still extant borders in Europe.\n\nAt that time, the Wettin elector Frederick II of Saxony and his brother Landgrave William of Thuringia had re-arranged their dominions in the 1445 Division of Altenburg and the following Saxon Fratricidal War. In 1432 Frederick had already reached a separate peace agreement with the Bohemian Hussites.\n\nAfter the death of the Habsburg king Albert II of Germany, the Utraquist leader George of Poděbrady had been elected Bohemian regent by local nobles in 1448 against the resistance of the Catholic supporters of Albert's minor son and heir Ladislaus the Posthumous, led by Burgrave Meinhard of Neuhaus. In the Saxon Fratricidal War, George had backed the younger brother Landgrave William. After the sudden death of Ladislaus, he was crowned Bohemian king by the Utraquist nobility in 1458, while William had also been a candidate for the succession. \nIn 1459 the Wettin brothers agreed with George of Poděbrady that towns, castles, markets and villages south of the Ore Mountains that formerly had belonged to the Lands of the Bohemian Crown (like Most, Rýzmburk Castle at Osek and Duchcov) together with all spiritual and secular bodies, pensions, interest, duties, etc. belonged to the estates of King George, whilst those estates and castles located on the northern side in the Vogtland region and the former Margraviate of Meissen should be left with the Saxon electors. Through this agreement, the border disputes that were constantly occurring were ultimately ended. That said, some places and dominions north of the Ore Mountains continued to be fiefdoms of the Bohemian crown.\n\nUpon the death of Elector Frederick II in 1464, his eldest son Ernest ruled jointly with his younger brother Albert. Their realm comprised all Wettin lands, when their uncle Landgrave William of Thuringia died without male heirs in 1482. However, by the 1485 Treaty of Leipzig the brothers again divided the Saxon lands, with the western Thuringia and Vogtland regions passing to Ernest and eastern Meissen falling to Albert. George of Poděbrady had to face the continuous resistance of the Catholic nobility backed by Pope Paul II, who designated Matthias Corvinus Bohemian king in 1469.\n\nThe most significant change to the border fixed by the 1459 treaty happened in 1546, when Duke Maurice of Saxony and King Ferdinand I divided the Barony of Schwarzenberg, former possession of Elector John Frederick I, as part of the spoils of war following the Schmalkaldic War, with Boží Dar and Horní Blatná passing to Bohemia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9347800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9347800", "title": "United States Africa Command", "text": "United States Africa Command\n\nThe United States Africa Command (USAFRICOM, U.S. AFRICOM, and AFRICOM), is one of ten unified combatant commands of the United States Armed Forces, headquartered at Kelley Barracks, Stuttgart, Germany. It is responsible for U.S. military operations, including fighting regional conflicts and maintaining military relations with 53 African nations. Its area of responsibility covers all of Africa except Egypt, which is within the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command. U.S. AFRICOM headquarters operating budget was $276 million in fiscal year 2012.\n\nThe Commander of U.S. AFRICOM reports to the Secretary of Defense. In individual countries, U.S. Ambassadors continue to be the primary diplomatic representative for relations with host nations.\n\nIn 2007, the White House announced, \"[AFRICOM] will strengthen our security cooperation with Africa and create new opportunities to bolster the capabilities of our partners in Africa. Africa Command will enhance our efforts to bring peace and security to the people of Africa and promote our common goals of development, health, education, democracy, and economic growth in Africa.\"\n\nGeneral Carter F. Ham said in a 2012 address at Brown University that U.S. strategy for Sub-Saharan Africa is to strengthen democratic institutions and boost broad-based economic growth.\n\nThe U.S. Africa Command is currently operating along five lines of effort:\n\nPrior to the creation of AFRICOM, responsibility for U.S. military operations in Africa was divided across three unified commands: United States European Command (EUCOM) for West Africa, United States Central Command (CENTCOM) for East Africa, and United States Pacific Command (PACOM) for Indian Ocean waters and islands off the east coast of Africa.\n\nA U.S. military officer wrote the first public article calling for the formation of a separate African command in November 2000. Following a 2004 global posture review, the United States Department of Defense began establishing a number of Cooperative Security Locations (CSLs) and Forward Operating Sites (FOSs) across the African continent, through the auspices of EUCOM which had nominal command of West Africa at that time. These locations, along with Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, would form the basis of AFRICOM facilities on the continent. Areas of military interest to the United States in Africa include the Sahara/Sahel region, over which Joint Task Force Aztec Silence is conducting anti-terrorist operations (Operation Enduring Freedom - Trans Sahara), Djibouti in the Horn of Africa, where Combined Joint Task Force – Horn of Africa is located (overseeing Operation Enduring Freedom - Horn of Africa), and the Gulf of Guinea.\n\nThe website Magharebia.com was launched by USEUCOM in 2004 to provide news about North Africa in English, French and Arabic. When AFRICOM was created, it took over operation of the website. Information operations of the United States Department of Defense was criticized by the Senate Armed Forces Committee and defunded by Congress in 2011. The site was closed down in February 2015.\n\nIn 2007, the United States Congress approved $500 million for the Trans-Saharan Counterterrorism Initiative (TSCTI) over six years to support countries involved in counterterrorism against threats of Al Qaeda operating in African countries, primarily Algeria, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Nigeria, and Morocco. This program builds upon the former Pan Sahel Initiative (PSI), which concluded in December 2004 and focused on weapon and drug trafficking, as well as counterterrorism. Previous U.S. military activities in Sub-Saharan Africa have included Special Forces associated Joint Combined Exchange Training. Letitia Lawson, writing in 2007 for a Center for Contemporary Conflict journal at the Naval Postgraduate School, noted that U.S. policy towards Africa, at least in the medium-term, looks to be largely defined by international terrorism, the increasing importance of African oil to American energy needs, and the dramatic expansion and improvement of Sino-African relations since 2000.\n\nIn mid-2006, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld formed a planning team to advise on requirements for establishing a new Unified Command for the African continent. In early December, he made his recommendations to President George W. Bush.\n\nOn 6 February 2007, Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced to the Senate Armed Services Committee that President George W. Bush had given authority to create the new African Command. U.S. Navy Rear Admiral Robert Moeller, the director of the AFRICOM transition team, arrived in Stuttgart, Germany to begin creating the logistical framework for the command. On 28 September the U.S. Senate confirmed General William E. \"Kip\" Ward as AFRICOM's first commander and AFRICOM officially became operational as a sub-unified command of EUCOM with a separate headquarters. On 1 October 2008, the command separated from USEUCOM and began operating on its own as a full-fledged combatant command.\n\nThe territory of the command consists of all of the African continent except for Egypt, which remains under the direct responsibility of USCENTCOM, as it closely relates to the Middle East. USAFRICOM also covers island countries commonly associated with Africa:\n\nThe U.S. military areas of responsibility involved were transferred from three separate U.S. unified combatant commands. Most of Africa was transferred from the United States European Command with the Horn of Africa and Sudan transferred from the United States Central Command. Responsibility for U.S. military operations in the islands of Madagascar, the Comoros, the Seychelles and Mauritius was transferred from the United States Pacific Command.\n\nThe AFRICOM headquarters is located at Kelley Barracks, a small urban facility near Stuttgart, Germany, and is staffed by 1,500 personnel. In addition, the command has military and civilian personnel assigned at Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti; RAF Molesworth, United Kingdom; MacDill Air Force Base, Florida; and in Offices of Security Cooperation and Defense Attaché Offices in about 38 African countries.\n\nIt was reported in June 2007 that African countries were competing to host the headquarters because it would bring money for the recipient country. However, of all the African nations, only Liberia has publicly expressed a willingness to host AFRICOM's headquarters. The U.S. declared in February 2008 that AFRICOM would be headquartered in Stuttgart for the \"foreseeable future\". In August 2007, Dr. Wafula Okumu, a research fellow at the Institute for Security Studies in South Africa, testified before the United States Congress about the growing resistance and hostility on the African continent. Nigeria announced it will not allow its country to host a base and opposed the creation of a base on the continent. South Africa and Libya also expressed reservations of the establishment of a headquarters in Africa.\n\nThe \"Sudan Tribune\" considered it likely that Ethiopia, a strong U.S. ally in the region, will house USAFRICOM's headquarters due to the collocation of AFRICOM with the African Union's developing peace and security apparatus. Prime Minister Meles Zenawi stated in early November that Ethiopia would be willing to work together closely with USAFRICOM. This was further reinforced when a U.S. Air Force official said on 5 December 2007, that Addis Ababa was likely to be the headquarters.\n\nOn 18 February 2008 General Ward told an audience at the Royal United Services Institute in London that some portion of that staff headquarters being on the continent at some point in time would be \"a positive factor in helping us better deliver programs.\" General Ward also told the BBC the same day in an interview that there are no definite plans to take the headquarters or a portion of it to any particular location on the continent.\n\nPresident Bush denied that the United States was contemplating the construction of new bases on the African continent. U.S. plans include no large installations such as Camp Bondsteel in Kosovo, but rather a network of \"cooperative security locations\" at which temporary activities will be conducted. There is one U.S. base on the continent, Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, with approximately 2,300 troops stationed there having been inherited from USCENTCOM upon standup of the command.\n\nIn general, U.S. Unified Combatant Commands have an HQ of their own in one location, subordinate service component HQs, sometimes one or two co-located with the main HQ or sometimes spread widely, and a wide range of operating locations, main bases, forward detachments, etc. USAFRICOM initially appears to be considering something slightly different; spreading the actually COCOM HQ over several locations, rather than having the COCOM HQ in one place and the putative \"U.S. Army Forces, Africa\", its air component, and \"U.S. Naval Forces, Africa\" in one to four separate locations. AFRICOM will not have the traditional J-type staff divisions, instead having outreach, plans and programs, knowledge development, operations and logistics, and resources branches. AFRICOM went back to a traditional J-Staff in early 2011 after General Carter Ham took command.\n\nU.S. Africa Command completed fiscal year 2010 with approximately 2,000 assigned personnel, which includes military, civilian, contractor, and host nation employees. About 1,500 work at the command’s main headquarters in Stuttgart. Others are assigned to the command’s units in England and Florida, along with security cooperation officers posted at U.S. embassies and diplomatic missions in Africa to coordinate Defense Department programs within the host nation.\n\nAs of December 2010, the command has five Senior Foreign Service officers in key positions as well as more than 30 personnel from 13 U.S. Government Departments and Agencies serving in leadership, management, and staff positions. Some of the agencies represented are the United States Departments of State, Treasury, and Commerce, United States Agency for International Development, and the United States Coast Guard.\n\nU.S. Africa Command has limited assigned forces and relies on the Department of Defense for resources necessary to support its missions.\n\nOn 1 October 2008, the Seventeenth Air Force was established at Ramstein Air Base, Germany as the United States Air Force component of the Africa Command. Brig. Gen. Tracey Garrett was named as commander of the new USMC component, U.S. Marine Corps Forces Africa (MARFORAF), in November 2008. MARFORAF is a dual-mission arrangement for United States Marine Corps Forces, Europe.\n\nOn 3 December 2008 the U.S. announced that Army and Navy headquarters units of AFRICOM would be hosted in Italy. The AFRICOM section of the Army’s Southern European Task Force would be located in Vicenza and Naval Forces Europe in Naples would expand to include the Navy's AFRICOM component. Special Operations Command, Africa (SOCAFRICA) is also established, gaining control over Joint Special Operations Task Force-Trans Sahara (JSOTF-TS) and Special Operations Command and Control Element – Horn of Africa (SOCCE-HOA).\n\nThe U.S. Army has allocated a brigade to the Africa Command.\n\nHeadquartered on Caserma Ederle in Vicenza, Italy, U.S. Army Africa, in concert with national and international partners, conducts sustained security engagement with African land forces to promote peace, stability, and security in Africa. As directed, it can deploy as a contingency headquarters in support of crisis response.\n\nThe 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division, the \"Dagger Brigade\", is being aligned with AFRICOM.\n\nU.S. Naval Forces Europe - Naval Forces Africa (NAVEUR-NAVAF) area of responsibility (AOR) covers approximately half of the Atlantic Ocean, from the North Pole to Antarctica; as well as the Adriatic, Baltic, Barents, Black, Caspian, Mediterranean and North Seas. NAVEUR-NAVAF covers all of Russia, Europe and nearly the entire continent of Africa. It encompasses 105 countries with a combined population of more than one billion people and includes a landmass extending more than 14 million square miles.\n\nThe area of responsibility covers more than 20 million square nautical miles of ocean, touches three continents and encompasses more than 67 percent of the Earth's coastline, 30 percent of its landmass, and nearly 40 percent of the world's population.\n\nTask Force 60 will normally be the commander of Naval Task Force Europe and Africa. Any naval unit within the USEUCOM or USAFRICOM AOR may be assigned to Task Force 60 as required upon by the Commander of the Sixth Fleet.\n\nAir Forces Africa (AFAFRICA) is located at Ramstein Air Base, Germany, and serves as the air and space component to U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM) located at Stuttgart, Germany. Air Forces Africa shares a headquarters and units with United States Air Forces in Europe, and its component Air Force, 3AF (AFAFRICA) conducts sustained security engagement and operations as directed to promote air safety, security and development on the African continent. Through its Theater Security Cooperation (TSC) events, Air Forces Africa carries out AFRICOM's policy of seeking long-term partnership with the African Union and regional organizations as well as individual nations on the continent.\n\nAir Forces Africa works with other U.S. Government agencies, to include the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), to assist African partners in developing national and regional security institution capabilities that promote security and stability and facilitate development.\n\n3AF succeeds the Seventeenth Air Force by assuming the AFAFRICA mission upon the 17AF's deactivation on 20 April 2012.\n\nU.S. Marine Corps Forces, Africa conducts operations, exercises, training, and security cooperation activities throughout the AOR. In 2009, MARFORAF participated in 15 ACOTA missions aimed at improving partners’ capabilities to provide logistical support, employ military police, and exercise command and control over deployed forces.\n\nMARFORAF conducted military to military events in 2009 designed to familiarize African partners with nearly every facet of military operations and procedures, including use of unmanned aerial vehicles, tactics, and medical skills. MARFORAF, as the lead component, continues to conduct Exercise AFRICAN LION in Morocco—the largest annual Combined Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) exercise on the African continent—as well as Exercise SHARED ACCORD 10, which was the first CJCS exercise conducted in Mozambique.\n\nIn 2013, the Special Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force - Crisis Response - Africa was formed to provide quick response to American interests in North Africa by flying marines in Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey aircraft from bases in Europe.\n\nSpecial Operations Command Africa was activated on 1 October 2008 and became fully operationally capable on 1 October 2009. SOCAFRICA is a Subordinate-Unified Command of United States Special Operations Command, operationally controlled by U.S. Africa Command, collocated with USAFRICOM at Kelley Barracks, Stuttgart-Möhringen, Germany. Also on 1 October 2008, SOCAFRICA assumed responsibility for the Special Operations Command and Control Element – Horn of Africa, and on 15 May 2009, SOCAFRICA assumed responsibility for Joint Special Operations Task Force Trans – Sahara (JSOTF-TS) – the SOF component of Operation Enduring Freedom – Trans Sahara.\n\nSOCAFRICA’s objectives are to build operational capacity, strengthen regional security and capacity initiatives, implement effective communication strategies in support of strategic objectives, and eradicate violent extremist organizations and their supporting networks. SOCAFRICA forces work closely with both U.S. Embassy country teams and African partners, maintaining a small but sustained presence throughout Africa, predominantly in the OEF-TS and CJTF-HOA regions. SOCAFRICA’s persistent SOF presence provides an invaluable resource that furthers USG efforts to combat violent extremist groups and builds partner nation CT capacity.\n\nOn 8 April 2011, Naval Special Warfare Unit 10, operationally assigned and specifically dedicated for SOCAFRICA missions, was commissioned at Panzer Kaserne, near Stuttgart, Germany. It is administratively assigned to Naval Special Warfare Group 2 on the U.S. East Coast.\n\nOrganizations included in SOCAFRICA include:\n\nCombined Joint Task Force – Horn of Africa (CJTF-HOA) conducts operations in the East Africa region to build partner nation capacity in order to promote regional security and stability, prevent conflict, and protect U.S. and coalition interests. CJTF-HOA's efforts, as part of a comprehensive whole-of-government approach, are aimed at increasing African partner nations' capacity to maintain a stable environment, with an effective government that provides a degree of economic and social advancement for its citizens.\n\n\n\nThe current State Department Deputy to the Commander for Civil-Military Engagement is Ambassador Alexander Laskaris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19620261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620261", "title": "Ur (continent)", "text": "Ur (continent)\n\nUr is a proposed supercontinent that formed in the Archean (3.1 billion).\n\nIn Roger's reconstruction Ur is half a billion years older than Arctica and, in the early period of its existence, it was probably the only continent on Earth, and as such can be considered a supercontinent, though it was probably smaller than present-day Australia. In more recent works geologists often refer to both Ur and other proposed Archaean continental assemblages as supercratons. Ur can, nevertheless, be half a billion years younger than Vaalbara, but the concepts of these two early cratonic assemblages are incompatible.\n\nAbout 1,300–1,071 Mya, Ur joined the continents Nena and Atlantica to form the supercontinent Rodinia. In the reconstruction of , Ur remained the nucleus of East Gondwana until the break-up of Gondwana. In other reconstructions, however, India and East Antarctica did not collide until Rodinia formed 1,071 Mya. Furthermore, in the Early Archaean Earth's mantle was 200 °C hotter than today and many characteristics of modern tectonics, such as ophiolites, blueschists, lawsonite-bearing eclogites, and ultra-high-pressure rocks, did not exist or were rare. This makes most proposed Archaean supercontinents controversial, including Rogers's 3 Gya supercontinent.\n\nReconstructions of the supercontinent Vaalbara places two cratons, Kaapvaal in southern Africa and Pilbara in western Australia next to each other based on stratigraphic similarities. In Roger's configuration of Ur, these cratons are placed far apart in their Gondwana configuration. This configuration is contradicted by widespread Precambrian collisional events between Australia and Africa.\n\nYet another possible supercraton, Zimgarn, proposed by and named after the Zimbabwe and Yilgarn cratons, is distinct from both Vaalbara and Ur. Vaalbara and Zimgarn, according to this proposal, both disintegrated about 2.1–2.0 Gya to reassemble as the Kalahari and West Australian cratons 2.524–1.507 Gya. Smirnov et al. based this reconstruction on: (1) Zimgarn was still undergoing cratonisation when an extensive carbonate platform developed over Vaalbara; (2) the magmatic signatures are different for the two supercratons during the period 2.6–2.0 Gya; and (3) paleomagnetic latitudes for 2.69 Gya are slightly different.\n\nImportant geological similarities link now remote Archaean cratons in India (Singhbhum and Dharwar), western Australia (Kilbaran and Pilbara), and southern Africa (Kaapvaal and Zimbabwe) which indicate that these protolithic shields were close together in the Mid-Archaean. The name \"Ur\", from the German prefix \"ur-\" meaning \"original\", was introduced by , since it is the first continent in his tectonic reconstructions. Other Archaean continental assemblages are considerably younger: Arctica (Baltica, Laurentia, Ur, and Siberia) consolidated around ~2.565 Gya, Atlantica (West Africa and eastern South America) consolidated around 2.11 Gya. In some reconstructions the shields of Ur stayed near each other until the Mesozoic break-up of Gondwana.\n\nThe cratons that had become stable around 3 Gya were all in the same region within Pangaea, which is the main argument for them having formed a single continent 3 billion years ago. The Kaapvaal craton in southern Africa became stable around 3.1 Gya. The Pilbara craton in western Australia is not well defined but formed around 3 Gya. Three cratons in East Antarctica are of similar age but not well known. These cratons share similar geological histories and are therefore assumed to have formed the continent Vaalbara.\n\nThree small areas in the Indian Ocean coast of Antarctica are also about 3 Gya old: western Dronning Maud Land, the Napier complex, and the Vestfold Hills. Within Gondwana, these areas were in a belt of Grenville-age deformation, and because there is no evidence of ocean closure in this belt (except in Africa), the 1 Ga orogen can be assumed to be intra-continental. Consequently, the southern margin of Ur is now below the Antarctic ice cover.\n\nTwo cratons in India of equal age, Western Dharwar and Singhbhum, were also part of Ur. Two other Indian cratons, Eastern Dharwar and Bhandara, also formed around 3 Gya but underwent extensive magmatism around 2.5 Gya not seen elsewhere and their relation to Ur is unclear. Ur, nevertheless, became larger around 2.524 Mya, and this so-called \"Expanded Ur\" incorporated the Zimbabwe Craton in Africa and the Yilgarn Craton in Australia.\n\nThe largest preserved parts of Ur are now in India: Aravalli, Dharwar, Bundelkhand, and Singhbhum. The Central Indian Tectonic Zone is the modern suture between the Bundelkhand-Aravalli block and the other Archaean blocks. 2.8–2.6 Gya metamorphism in Dharwar and Bundelkhand indicate that the stabilisation of Ur probably continued until the end of that period.\n\n"}
{"id": "36040495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36040495", "title": "Xugana Airport", "text": "Xugana Airport\n\nXugana Airport is an airstrip serving the Xugana Island Lodge, a safari resort in the Okavango Delta of Botswana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22254029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22254029", "title": "Zenne Group", "text": "Zenne Group\n\nThe Zenne Group () is a group of rock strata in the subsurface of central and northwest Belgium. The group consists of three formations, all from the Ypresian and Lutetian ages (early Eocene, 50 to 40 million years old). These formation have their shallow marine facies in common.\n\nThe three formations are:\n\nStratigraphically on top of the Zenne Group are the late Eocene sands and clays of the Maldegem Formation, which is not divided into a group. The Zenne Group is almost everywhere found on top of the early Eocene Ieper Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "26539852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26539852", "title": "Šakali", "text": "Šakali\n\nŠakali (\"Jackals\", also written \"Cakali\") was a Serbian paramilitary group that operated during the Kosovo War 1999.\n\nNine people of the group were arrested March 13, 2010 suspected of having committed crimes in Ćuška near Peć on May 14, 1999. A trial in Belgrade started on 20 December 2010. The trial included:\n\nThey are accused of committing murders, rapes and robberies in an \"extremely brutal\" way, with \"the main goal to spread fear among Albanian civilians in order to force them to leave their homes and flee to Albania.\" Hasan Ceku the father of the former Kosovo prime minister and wartime commander of the Kosovo Liberation Army, Agim Ceku, as well as several members of his family were among the murdered people.\n\nThe leader Nebojša Minić was arrested in Argentina in 2005 under a warrant of the Hague Tribunal, but died shortly of AIDS after the arrest.\n\nZoran Obradović was arrested in Germany on 25 December 2010.\n\nMilojko Nikolić, nickname \"Sumadija\", was arrested on 28 December 2010 in Montenegro.\n\n"}
