{"id": "13828302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13828302", "title": "1342 in Ireland", "text": "1342 in Ireland\n\nEvents from the year 1342 in Ireland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1122185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122185", "title": "1959 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1959 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1959 Monaco Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at the Circuit de Monaco on 10 May 1959. It was race 1 of 9 in the 1959 World Championship of Drivers and race 1 of 8 in the 1959 International Cup for Formula One Manufacturers. It was also the 17th Monaco Grand Prix. The race was held over 100 laps of the three kilometre circuit for a race distance of 315 kilometres.\n\nThe race was won by Australian racer Jack Brabham driving a Cooper T51 for the factory Cooper Car Company team. It was the first win for Brabham, a future three-time world champion. It was the first World Championship Grand Prix victory by an Australian driver. It was also the first win for the factory Cooper team. Coopers had won races previously in the hands of Rob Walker Racing Team. Brabham finished 20 seconds ahead of British driver Tony Brooks driving a Ferrari 246. A lap down in third was the Cooper T51 of French driver and 1958 Monaco Grand Prix winner Maurice Trintignant of the Rob Walker Racing Team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14281974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14281974", "title": "Amar Radio", "text": "Amar Radio\n\nAmar Radio is a community radio channel, aimed at the Asian community. Based in Southall, London, it was launched on 27 June 2002 as Akash Radio.\n\nDuring May 2010, Akash Radio had a change of management with the name, imaging and content all undergoing a refresh. Akash Radio became known as Amar Radio. In December 2010, Jaswant Singh, the President of Southall's Miri Piri Gurdwara bought Amar Radio with plans to give the station an overhaul.\n\nAmar Radio is accessible via its website worldwide and features popular discussion, cultural, and bhangra shows. Amar Radio was available across the United Kingdom and Ireland from Sky Digital until 15 August 2011.\n\nThe station has won two Asian award nominations for best radio station, and is a sponsor of shows and melas within the local community.\n\n"}
{"id": "46527342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46527342", "title": "American International School of Libreville", "text": "American International School of Libreville\n\nAmerican International School of Libreville (AISL) is an American international school in Libreville, Gabon. The U.S. Embassy in Gabon sponsors the school. It serves grades pre-kindergarten through grade 12, and was founded in 1975 at the request of the U.S. Ambassador to Gabon. The school's student body for the year 2015–2016 was 26. As of 2015, there were no eleventh and twelfth graders at the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "670365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670365", "title": "Apostolic Nunciature", "text": "Apostolic Nunciature\n\nAn Apostolic Nunciature is a top-level diplomatic mission of the Holy See, equivalent to an embassy. However, it does not issue visas, nor does it have consulates.\n\nThe head of the Apostolic Nunciature is called a \"nuncio\", an ecclesiastical diplomatic title. A papal nuncio (officially known as an Apostolic nuncio) is a permanent diplomatic representative (head of diplomatic mission) of the Holy See to a state or to one of two international intergovernmental organizations, the European Union or ASEAN, having the rank of an ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, and the ecclesiastical rank of titular archbishop. Papal representatives to other intergovernmental organizations are known as \"permanent observers\" or \"delegates\".\n\nIn several countries that have diplomatic relations with the Holy See, the Apostolic Nuncio is \"ipso facto\" the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps. The nuncio is first in the order of precedence among all the diplomats accredited to the country, and he speaks for the diplomatic corps in matters of diplomatic privilege and protocol. Most countries that concede priority to the nuncio are officially Catholic, but some are not.\n\nIn addition, the nuncio serves as the liaison between the Holy See and the Church in that particular nation, supervising the diocesan episcopate (usually a national conference of bishops which has its own elected President, often the highest-ranking (arch)bishop, especially if his seat carries the title of primate or he has individually been created a cardinal). The nuncio has an important role in the selection of bishops.\n\nThe Pope accredits diplomats with the following states and other subjects of international law (list as per January 2010):\n\nAlgeria, Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Botswana, Cameroun, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Botswana, Congo (Republic of), Congo (Democratic Republic of), Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sénégal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe\n\nAntigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, México, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela\n\nBahrain, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Republic of China (Taiwan), East Timor, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam (Non-Resident), Yemen.\n\nAlbania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, European Union, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine\n\nAustralia, the Cook Islands, Fiji, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, New Zealand, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18933277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933277", "title": "Bahrain", "text": "Bahrain\n\nBahrain (; ' ), officially the Kingdom of Bahrain ( '), is an island country in the Persian Gulf. The sovereign state comprises a small archipelago centered around Bahrain Island, situated between the Qatar peninsula and the north eastern coast of Saudi Arabia, to which it is connected by the King Fahd Causeway. Bahrain's population is 1,234,571 (c. 2010), including 666,172 non-nationals. It is in size, making it the third-smallest nation in Asia after the Maldives and Singapore.\n\nBahrain is the site of the ancient Dilmun civilisation. It has been famed since antiquity for its pearl fisheries, which were considered the best in the world into the 19th century. Bahrain was one of the earliest areas to convert to Islam, in 628 CE. Following a period of Arab rule, Bahrain was occupied by the Portuguese in 1521, who in turn were expelled in 1602 by Shah Abbas I of the Safavid dynasty under the Persian Empire. In 1783, the Bani Utbah clan captured Bahrain from Nasr Al-Madhkur and it has since been ruled by the Al Khalifa royal family, with Ahmed al Fateh as Bahrain's first hakim.\n\nIn the late 1800s, following successive treaties with the British, Bahrain became a protectorate of the United Kingdom. In 1971, Bahrain declared independence. Formerly an emirate, the Arab constitutional monarchy of Bahrain was declared a kingdom in 2002. In 2011, the country experienced protests inspired by the regional Arab Spring. Bahrain's ruling al-Khalifa royal family has been accused and criticized for human rights abuses, including imprisonment, torture and execution of dissidents, political opposition figures and its Shia Muslim population.\n\nBahrain had the first post-oil economy in the Persian Gulf. Since the late 20th century, Bahrain has invested in the banking and tourism sectors. Many large financial institutions have a presence in Manama, the country's capital. It has a high Human Development Index and is recognised by the World Bank as a high-income economy. Bahrain is a member of the United Nations, Non-Aligned Movement, Arab League, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Gulf Cooperation Council.\n\n\"Bahrayn\" is the dual form of Arabic \"bahr\" (\"sea\"), so \"al-Bahrayn\" originally means \"the two seas\". However, the name has been lexicalised as a feminine proper noun and does not follow the grammatical rules for duals; thus its form is always \"Bahrayn\" and never \"Bahrān\", the expected nominative form. Endings are added to the word with no changes, as in the name of the national anthem \"Bahraynunā\" (\"our Bahrain\") or the demonym \"Bahraynī\". The mediaeval grammarian al-Jawahari commented on this saying that the more formally correct term \"Bahrī\" (lit. \"belonging to the sea\") would have been misunderstood and so was unused.\n\nIt remains disputed which \"two seas\" the name \"Bahrayn\" originally refers to. The term appears five times in the Quran, but does not refer to the modern island—originally known to the Arabs as \"Awal\"—but, rather, to all of Eastern Arabia (most notably al-Katif and al-Hasa).\n\nToday, Bahrain's \"two seas\" are generally taken to be the bay east and west of the island, the seas north and south of the island, or the salt and fresh water present above and below the ground. In addition to wells, there are areas of the sea north of Bahrain where fresh water bubbles up in the middle of the salt water as noted by visitors since antiquity. An alternate theory with regard to Bahrain's toponymy is offered by the al-Ahsa region, which suggests that the two seas were the Great Green Ocean (the Persian Gulf) and a peaceful lake on the Arabian mainland.\n\nUntil the late Middle Ages, \"Bahrain\" referred to the region of Eastern Arabia that included Southern Iraq, Kuwait, Al-Hasa, Qatif, and Bahrain. The region stretched from Basra in Iraq to the Strait of Hormuz in Oman. This was Iqlīm al-Bahrayn's \"Bahrayn Province\". The exact date at which the term \"Bahrain\" began to refer solely to the Awal archipelago is unknown. The entire coastal strip of Eastern Arabia was known as \"Bahrain\" for a millennium. The island and kingdom were also commonly spelled Bahrein into the 1950s.\n\nBahrain was home to the Dilmun civilization, an important Bronze Age trade centre linking Mesopotamia and the Indus Valley. Bahrain was later ruled by the Assyrians and Babylonians.\n\nFrom the 6th to 3rd century BC, Bahrain was part of the Persian Empire ruled by the Achaemenian dynasty. By about 250 BC, Parthia brought the Persian Gulf under its control and extended its influence as far as Oman. The Parthians established garrisons along the southern coast of the Persian Gulf to control trade routes.\n\nDuring the classical era, Bahrain was referred to by the ancient Greeks as \"Tylos\", the centre of pearl trading, when the Greek admiral Nearchus serving under Alexander the Great landed on Bahrain. Nearchus is believed to have been the first of Alexander's commanders to visit the island, and he found a verdant land that was part of a wide trading network; he recorded: \"That on the island of Tylos, situated in the Persian Gulf, are large plantations of cotton trees, from which are manufactured clothes called \"sindones\", of strongly differing degrees of value, some being costly, others less expensive. The use of these is not confined to India, but extends to Arabia.\" The Greek historian Theophrastus states that much of Bahrain was covered by these cotton trees and that Bahrain was famous for exporting walking canes engraved with emblems that were customarily carried in Babylon.\n\nAlexander had planned to settle Greek colonists on Bahrain, and although it is not clear that this happened on the scale he envisaged, Bahrain became very much part of the Hellenised world: the language of the upper classes was Greek (although Aramaic was in everyday use), while Zeus was worshipped in the form of the Arabian sun-god Shams. Bahrain even became the site of Greek athletic contests.\n\nThe Greek historian Strabo believed the Phoenicians originate from Bahrain. Herodotus also believed that the homeland of the Phoenicians was Bahrain. This theory was accepted by the 19th-century German classicist Arnold Heeren who said that: \"In the Greek geographers, for instance, we read of two islands, named Tyrus or Tylos, and Aradus, which boasted that they were the mother country of the Phoenicians, and exhibited relics of Phoenician temples.\" The people of Tyre in particular have long maintained Persian Gulf origins, and the similarity in the words \"Tylos\" and \"Tyre\" has been commented upon. However, there is little evidence of any human settlement at all on Bahrain during the time when such migration had supposedly taken place.\n\nThe name Tylos is thought to be a Hellenisation of the Semitic \"Tilmun\" (from Dilmun). The term Tylos was commonly used for the islands until Ptolemy's \"Geographia\" when the inhabitants are referred to as Thilouanoi. Some place names in Bahrain go back to the Tylos era; for instance the name of Arad, a residential suburb of Muharraq, is believed to originate from \"Arados\", the ancient Greek name for Muharraq.\n\nIn the 3rd century, Ardashir I, the first ruler of the Sassanid dynasty, marched on Oman and Bahrain, where he defeated Sanatruq the ruler of Bahrain. At this time, Bahrain was known as Mishmahig (which in Middle-Persian/Pahlavi means \"ewe-fish\").\n\nBahrain was also the site of worship of an ox deity called Awal. Worshipers built a large statue to Awal in Muharraq, although it has now been lost. For many centuries after \"Tylos\", Bahrain was known as \"Awal\". By the 5th century, Bahrain became a centre for Nestorian Christianity, with the village Samahij as the seat of bishops. In 410, according to the Oriental Syriac Church synodal records, a bishop named Batai was excommunicated from the church in Bahrain. As a sect, the Nestorians were often persecuted as heretics by the Byzantine Empire, but Bahrain was outside the Empire's control, offering some safety. The names of several Muharraq villages today reflect Bahrain's Christian legacy, with Al Dair meaning \"the monastery\".\n\nBahrain's pre-Islamic population consisted of Christian Arabs (mostly Abd al-Qays), Persians (Zoroastrians), Jews, and Aramaic-speaking agriculturalists. According to Robert Bertram Serjeant, the Baharna may be the Arabised \"descendants of converts from the original population of Christians (Aramaeans), Jews and Persians inhabiting the island and cultivated coastal provinces of Eastern Arabia at the time of the Muslim conquest\". The sedentary people of pre-Islamic Bahrain were Aramaic speakers and to some degree Persian speakers, while Syriac functioned as a liturgical language.\n\nMuhammad's first interaction with the people of Bahrain was the Al Kudr Invasion. Muhammad ordered a surprise attack on the Banu Salim tribe for allegedly plotting to attack Medina. He had received news that some tribes were assembling an army on Bahrain and preparing to attack the mainland. But the tribesmen retreated when they learned Muhammad was leading an army to do battle with them.\n\nTraditional Islamic accounts state that Al-Ala'a Al-Hadrami was sent as an envoy during the Expedition of Zayd ibn Harithah (Hisma) to the Bahrain region by the prophet Muhammad in  628 and that Munzir ibn Sawa Al Tamimi, the local ruler, responded to his mission and converted the entire area.\n\nIn 899, the Qarmatians, a millenarian Ismaili Muslim sect, seized Bahrain, seeking to create a utopian society based on reason and redistribution of property among initiates. Thereafter, the Qarmatians demanded tribute from the caliph in Baghdad, and in 930 sacked Mecca and Medina, bringing the sacred Black Stone back to their base in Ahsa, in medieval Bahrain, for ransom. According to historian Al-Juwayni, the stone was returned 22 years later in 951 under mysterious circumstances. Wrapped in a sack, it was thrown into the Great Mosque of Kufa in Iraq, accompanied by a note saying \"By command we took it, and by command we have brought it back.\" The theft and removal of the Black Stone caused it to break into seven pieces.\n\nFollowing their 976 defeat by the Abbasids, the Qarmatians were overthrown by the Arab Uyunid dynasty of al-Hasa, who took over the entire Bahrain region in 1076. The Uyunids controlled Bahrain until 1235, when the archipelago was briefly occupied by the Persian ruler of Fars. In 1253, the Bedouin Usfurids brought down the Uyunid dynasty, thereby gaining control over eastern Arabia, including the islands of Bahrain. In 1330, the archipelago became a tributary state of the rulers of Hormuz, though locally the islands were controlled by the Shi'ite Jarwanid dynasty of Qatif.\nIn the mid-15th century, the archipelago came under the rule of the Jabrids, a Bedouin dynasty also based in Al-Ahsa that ruled most of eastern Arabia.\n\nIn 1521, the Portuguese allied with Hormuz and seized Bahrain from the Jabrid ruler Muqrin ibn Zamil, who was killed during the takeover. Portuguese rule lasted for around 80 years, during which time they depended mainly on Sunni Persian governors. The Portuguese were expelled from the islands in 1602 by Abbas I of the Safavid dynasty of Persia, which gave impetus to Shia Islam. For the next two centuries, Persian rulers retained control of the archipelago, interrupted by the 1717 and 1738 invasions of the Ibadhis of Oman. During most of this period, they resorted to governing Bahrain indirectly, either through the city of Bushehr or through immigrant Sunni Arab clans. The latter were tribes returning to the Arabian side of the Persian Gulf from Persian territories in the north who were known as \"Huwala\" (literally: those that have changed or moved). In 1753, the Huwala clan of Nasr Al-Madhkur invaded Bahrain on behalf of the Iranian Zand leader Karim Khan Zand and restored direct Iranian rule.\n\nIn 1783, Al-Madhkur lost the islands of Bahrain following his defeat by the Bani Utbah tribe at the 1782 Battle of Zubarah. Bahrain was not new territory to the Bani Utbah; they had been a presence there since the 17th century. During that time, they started purchasing date palm gardens in Bahrain; a document shows that 81 years before arrival of the Al-Khalifa, one of the shaikhs of the Al Bin Ali tribe (an offshoot of the Bani Utbah) had bought a palm garden from Mariam bint Ahmed Al Sanadi in Sitra island.\n\nThe Al Bin Ali were the dominant group controlling the town of Zubarah on the Qatar peninsula, originally the center of power of the Bani Utbah. After the Bani Utbah gained control of Bahrain, the Al Bin Ali had a practically independent status there as a self-governing tribe. They used a flag with four red and three white stripes, called the Al-Sulami flag in Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, and the Eastern province of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Later, different Arab family clans and tribes from Qatar moved to Bahrain to settle after the fall of Nasr Al-Madhkur of Bushehr. These families included the Al Khalifa, Al-Ma'awdah, Al-Fadhil, Al-Mannai, Al-Noaimi, Al-Sulaiti, Al-Sadah, Al-Thawadi and other families and tribes.\n\nThe Al Khalifa family moved from Qatar to Bahrain in 1799. Originally, their ancestors were expelled from Umm Qasr in central Arabia by the Ottomans due to their predatory habits of preying on caravans in Basra and trading ships in Shatt al-Arab waterway until Turks expelled them to Kuwait in 1716, where they remained until 1766.\n\nAround the 1760s, the Al Jalahma and Al Khalifa clans, both belonging to the Utub Federation, migrated to Zubarah in modern-day Qatar, leaving Al Sabah as the sole proprietors of Kuwait.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Bahrain was invaded by both the Omanis and the Al Sauds. In 1802 it was governed by a 12-year-old child, when the Omani ruler Sayyid Sultan installed his son, Salim, as governor in the Arad Fort. In 1816, the British political resident in the Gulf, William Bruce, received a letter from the Sheikh of Bahrain who was concerned about a rumour that Britain would support an attack on the island by the Imam of Muscat. He sailed to Bahrain to reassure the Sheikh that this was not the case and drew up an informal agreement assuring the Sheikh that Britain would remain a neutral party.\n\nIn 1820, the Al Khalifa tribe were recognised by Great Britain as the rulers (\"Al-Hakim\" in Arabic) of Bahrain after signing a treaty relationship. However, ten years later they were forced to pay yearly tributes to Egypt despite seeking Persian and British protection.\n\nIn 1860, the Al Khalifas used the same tactic when the British tried to overpower Bahrain. Writing letters to the Persians and Ottomans, Al Khalifas agreed to place Bahrain under the latter's protection in March due to offering better conditions. Eventually the Government of British India overpowered Bahrain when the Persians refused to protect it. Colonel Pelly signed a new treaty with Al Khalifas placing Bahrain under British rule and protection.\n\nFollowing the Qatari–Bahraini War in 1868, British representatives signed another agreement with the Al Khalifas. It specified that the ruler could not dispose of any of his territory except to the United Kingdom and could not enter into relationships with any foreign government without British consent. In return the British promised to protect Bahrain from all aggression by sea and to lend support in case of land attack. More importantly the British promised to support the rule of the Al Khalifa in Bahrain, securing its unstable position as rulers of the country. Other agreements in 1880 and 1892 sealed the protectorate status of Bahrain to the British.\n\nUnrest amongst the people of Bahrain began when Britain officially established complete dominance over the territory in 1892. The first revolt and widespread uprising took place in March 1895 against Sheikh Issa bin Ali, then ruler of Bahrain. Sheikh Issa was the first of the Al Khalifa to rule without Persian relations. Sir Arnold Wilson, Britain's representative in the Persian Gulf and author of \"The Persian Gulf\", arrived in Bahrain from Muscat at this time. The uprising developed further with some protesters killed by British forces.\n\nBefore the development of petroleum, the island was largely devoted to pearl fisheries and, as late as the 19th century, was considered to be the finest in the world. In 1903, German explorer, Hermann Burchardt, visited Bahrain and took many photographs of historical sites, including the old \"Qaṣr es-Sheikh\", photos now stored at the Ethnological Museum of Berlin. Prior to the First World War, there were about 400 vessels hunting pearls and an annual export of more than £30,000.\n\nIn 1911, a group of Bahraini merchants demanded restrictions on the British influence in the country. The group's leaders were subsequently arrested and exiled to India. In 1923, the British introduced administrative reforms and replaced Sheikh Issa bin Ali with his son. Some clerical opponents and families such as al Dossari left or were exiled to Saudi Arabia and Iran. Three years later the British placed the country under the \"de facto\" rule of Charles Belgrave who operated as an adviser to the ruler until 1957. Belgrave brought a number of reforms such as establishment of the country's first modern school in 1919, the Persian Gulf's first girls' school in 1928 and the abolition of slavery in 1937. At the same time, the pearl diving industry developed at a rapid pace.\n\nIn 1927, Rezā Shāh, then Shah of Iran, demanded sovereignty over Bahrain in a letter to the League of Nations, a move that prompted Belgrave to undertake harsh measures including encouraging conflicts between Shia and Sunni Muslims in order to bring down the uprisings and limit the Iranian influence. Belgrave even went further by suggesting to rename the Persian Gulf to the \"Arabian Gulf\"; however, the proposal was refused by the British government. Britain's interest in Bahrain's development was motivated by concerns over Saudi and Iranian ambitions in the region.\n\nThe Bahrain Petroleum Company (Bapco), a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Company of California (Socal), discovered oil in 1931 and production began the following year. This was to bring rapid modernisation to Bahrain. Relations with the United Kingdom became closer, as evidenced by the British Royal Navy moving its entire Middle Eastern command from Bushehr in Iran to Bahrain in 1935.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Bahrain Airport was developed. Imperial Airways flew there, including the Handley Page HP42 aircraft. Later in the same decade the Bahrain Maritime Airport was established, for flying-boats and seaplanes.\n\nBahrain participated in the Second World War on the Allied side, joining on 10 September 1939. On 19 October 1940, four Italian SM.82s bombers bombed Bahrain alongside Dhahran oilfields in Saudi Arabia, targeting Allied-operated oil refineries. Although minimal damage was caused in both locations, the attack forced the Allies to upgrade Bahrain's defences, an action which further stretched Allied military resources.\n\nAfter World War II, increasing anti-British sentiment spread throughout the Arab World and led to riots in Bahrain. The riots focused on the Jewish community. In 1948, following rising hostilities and looting, most members of Bahrain's Jewish community abandoned their properties and evacuated to Bombay, later settling in Israel (Pardes Hanna-Karkur) and the United Kingdom. , 37 Jews remained in the country. In the 1950s, the National Union Committee, formed by reformists following sectarian clashes, demanded an elected popular assembly, removal of Belgrave and carried out a number of protests and general strikes. In 1965 a month-long uprising broke out after hundreds of workers at the Bahrain Petroleum Company were laid off.\n\nOn 15 August 1971, though the Shah of Iran was claiming historical sovereignty over Bahrain, he accepted a referendum held by the United Nations and eventually Bahrain declared independence and signed a new treaty of friendship with the United Kingdom. Bahrain joined the United Nations and the Arab League later in the year. The oil boom of the 1970s benefited Bahrain greatly, although the subsequent downturn hurt the economy. The country had already begun diversification of its economy and benefited further from the Lebanese Civil War in the 1970s and 1980s, when Bahrain replaced Beirut as the Middle East's financial hub after Lebanon's large banking sector was driven out of the country by the war.\n\nFollowing the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran, in 1981 Bahraini Shia population orchestrated a failed coup attempt under the auspices of a front organisation, the Islamic Front for the Liberation of Bahrain. The coup would have installed a Shia cleric exiled in Iran, Hujjatu l-Islām Hādī al-Mudarrisī, as supreme leader heading a theocratic government. In December 1994, a group of youths threw stones at female runners for running bare-legged during an international marathon. The resulting clash with police soon grew into civil unrest.\n\nA popular uprising occurred between 1994 and 2000 in which leftists, liberals and Islamists joined forces. The event resulted in approximately forty deaths and ended after Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa became the Emir of Bahrain in 1999. He instituted elections for parliament, gave women the right to vote, and released all political prisoners. A referendum on 14–15 February 2001 massively supported the National Action Charter. As part of the adoption of the National Action Charter on 14 February 2002, Bahrain changed its formal name from the State (\"dawla\") of Bahrain to the Kingdom of Bahrain.\n\nThe country participated in military action against the Taliban in October 2001 by deploying a frigate in the Arabian Sea for rescue and humanitarian operations. As a result, in November of that year, US president George W. Bush's administration designated Bahrain as a \"major non-NATO ally\". Bahrain opposed the invasion of Iraq and had offered Saddam Hussein asylum in the days prior to the invasion. Relations improved with neighbouring Qatar after the border dispute over the Hawar Islands was resolved by the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 2001. Following the political liberalisation of the country, Bahrain negotiated a free trade agreement with the United States in 2004.\n\nInspired by the regional Arab Spring, Bahrain's Shia majority started large protests against its Sunni rulers in early 2011. The government initially allowed protests following a pre-dawn raid on protesters camped in Pearl Roundabout. A month later it requested security assistance from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf Cooperation Council countries and declared a three-month state of emergency. The government then launched a crackdown on the opposition that included conducting thousands of arrests and systematic torture. Almost daily clashes between protesters and security forces led to dozens of deaths. Protests, sometimes staged by opposition parties, were ongoing. More than 80 civilians and 13 policemen have been killed .\nAccording to Physicians for Human Rights, 34 of these deaths were related to government usage of tear gas originally manufactured by U.S.-based Federal Laboratories. The lack of coverage by Arab media in the Persian Gulf, as compared to other Arab Spring uprisings, has sparked several controversies. Iran is alleged by United States and others to have a hand in the arming of Bahraini militants.\n\nBahrain is a generally flat and arid archipelago in the Persian Gulf. It consists of a low desert plain rising gently to a low central escarpment with the highest point the Mountain of Smoke \"(Jabal ad Dukhan)\". Bahrain had a total area of but due to land reclamation, the area increased to , which is slightly larger than Hamburg or the Isle of Man.\n\nOften described as an archipelago of 33 islands, extensive land reclamation projects have changed this; by August 2008 the number of islands and island groups had increased to 84. Bahrain does not share a land boundary with another country but does have a coastline. The country also claims a further of territorial sea and a contiguous zone. Bahrain's largest islands are Bahrain Island, the Hawar Islands, Muharraq Island, Umm an Nasan, and Sitra. Bahrain has mild winters and very hot, humid summers. The country's natural resources include large quantities of oil and natural gas as well as fish in the offshore waters. Arable land constitutes only 2.82% of the total area.\n\nAbout 92% of Bahrain is desert with periodic droughts and dust storms, the main natural hazards for Bahrainis. Environmental issues facing Bahrain include desertification resulting from the degradation of limited arable land, coastal degradation (damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation) resulting from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers, oil refineries, distribution stations, and illegal land reclamation at places such as Tubli Bay. The agricultural and domestic sectors' over-utilisation of the Dammam Aquifer, the principal aquifer in Bahrain, has led to its salinisation by adjacent brackish and saline water bodies. A hydrochemical study identified the locations of the sources of aquifer salinisation and delineated their areas of influence. The investigation indicates that the aquifer water quality is significantly modified as groundwater flows from the northwestern parts of Bahrain, where the aquifer receives its water by lateral underflow from eastern Saudi Arabia, to the southern and southeastern parts. Four types of salinisation of the aquifer are identified: brackish-water up-flow from the underlying brackish-water zones in north-central, western, and eastern regions; seawater intrusion in the eastern region; intrusion of sabkha water in the southwestern region; and irrigation return flow in a local area in the western region. Four alternatives for the management of groundwater quality that are available to the water authorities in Bahrain are discussed and their priority areas are proposed, based on the type and extent of each salinisation source, in addition to groundwater use in that area.\n\nThe Zagros Mountains across the Persian Gulf in Iran cause low-level winds to be directed toward Bahrain. Dust storms from Iraq and Saudi Arabia transported by northwesterly winds, locally called shamal wind, causing reduced visibility in the months of June and July.\n\nSummers are very hot. The seas around Bahrain are very shallow, heating up quickly in the summer to produce very high humidity, especially at night. Summer temperatures may reach up to under the right conditions. Rainfall in Bahrain is minimal and irregular. Rainfalls mostly occur in winter, with a recorded maximum of .\n\nMore than 330 species of birds were recorded in the Bahrain archipelago, 26 species of which breed in the country. Millions of migratory birds pass through the Persian Gulf region in the winter and autumn months. One globally endangered species, \"Chlamydotis undulata\", is a regular migrant in the autumn. The many islands and shallow seas of Bahrain are globally important for the breeding of the Socotra cormorant; up to 100,000 pairs of these birds were recorded over the Hawar islands.\n\nOnly 18 species of mammals are found in Bahrain, animals such as gazelles, desert rabbits and hedgehogs are common in the wild but the Arabian oryx was hunted to extinction on the island. Twenty-five species of amphibians and reptiles were recorded as well as 21 species of butterflies and 307 species of flora. The marine biotopes are diverse and include extensive sea grass beds and mudflats, patchy coral reefs as well as offshore islands. Sea grass beds are important foraging grounds for some threatened species such as dugongs and the green turtle. In 2003, Bahrain banned the capture of sea cows, marine turtles and dolphins within its territorial waters.\n\nThe Hawar Islands Protected Area provides valuable feeding and breeding grounds for a variety of migratory seabirds, it is an internationally recognised site for bird migration. The breeding colony of Socotra cormorant on Hawar Islands is the largest in the world, and the dugongs foraging around the archipelago form the second-largest dugong aggregation after Australia.\n\nBahrain has five designated protected areas, four of which are marine environments. They are:\n\nBahrain under the Al-Khalifa is a constitutional monarchy headed by the King, Shaikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa. King Hamad enjoys wide executive powers which include appointing the Prime Minister and his ministers, commanding the army, chairing the Higher Judicial Council, appointing the parliament's upper house and dissolving its elected lower house. The head of government is the unelected prime minister, Shaikh Khalīfa bin Salman Al Khalifa, the uncle of the current king who has served in this position since 1971, making him the longest-serving prime minister in the world. In 2010, about half of the government was composed of the Al Khalifa family.\n\nBahrain has a bicameral National Assembly (\"al-Jam'iyyah al-Watani\") consisting of the Shura Council (\"Majlis Al-Shura\") with 40 seats and the Council of Representatives (\"Majlis Al-Nuwab\") with 40 seats. The forty members of the Shura are appointed by the king. In the Council of Representatives, 40 members are elected by absolute majority vote in single-member constituencies to serve four-year terms. The appointed council \"exercises a \"de facto\" veto\" over the elected, because draft acts must be approved so they may pass into law. After approval, the king may ratify and issue the act or return it within six months to the National Assembly where it may only pass into law if approved by two thirds of both councils.\n\nIn 1973, the country held its first parliamentary elections; however, two years later, the late emir dissolved the parliament and suspended the constitution after parliament rejected the State Security Law. The period between 2002 and 2010 saw three parliamentary elections. The first, held in 2002 was boycotted by the opposition, Al Wefaq, which won a majority in the second in 2006 and third in 2010. The 2011 by-election was held to replace 18 members of Al Wefaq who resigned in protest against government crackdown.\n\nThe opening up of politics saw big gains for both Shīa and Sunnī Islamists in elections, which gave them a parliamentary platform to pursue their policies. It gave a new prominence to clerics within the political system, with the most senior Shia religious leader, Sheikh Isa Qassim, playing a vital role. This was especially evident when in 2005 the government called off the Shia branch of the \"Family law\" after over 100,000 Shia took to the streets. Islamists opposed the law because \"neither elected MPs nor the government has the authority to change the law because these institutions could misinterpret the word of God\". The law was supported by women activists who said they were \"suffering in silence\". They managed to organise a rally attended by 500 participants. Ghada Jamsheer, a leading woman activist said the government was using the law as a \"bargaining tool with opposition Islamic groups\".\n\nAnalysts of democratisation in the Middle East cite the Islamists' references to respect human rights in their justification for these programmes as evidence that these groups can serve as a progressive force in the region. Some Islamist parties have been particularly critical of the government's readiness to sign international treaties such as the United Nations' International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. At a parliamentary session in June 2006 to discuss ratification of the Convention, Sheikh Adel Mouwda, the former leader of salafist party, Asalah, explained the party's objections: \"The convention has been tailored by our enemies, God kill them all, to serve their needs and protect their interests rather than ours. This why we have eyes from the American Embassy watching us during our sessions, to ensure things are swinging their way\".\n\nThe period between 1975 and 1999 known as the \"State Security Law Era\", saw wide range of human rights violations including arbitrary arrests, detention without trial, torture and forced exile. After the Emir Hamad Al Khalifa (now king) succeeded his father Isa Al Khalifa in 1999, he introduced wide reforms and human rights improved significantly. These moves were described by Amnesty International as representing a \"historic period of human rights\".\n\nHuman rights conditions started to decline by 2007 when torture began to be employed again. In 2011, Human Rights Watch described the country's human rights situation as \"dismal\". Due to this, Bahrain lost some of the high International rankings it had gained before.\n\nIn 2011, Bahrain was criticised for its crackdown on the Arab spring uprising. In September, a government appointed commission confirmed reports of grave human rights violations including systematic torture. The government promised to introduce reforms and avoid repeating the \"painful events\". However, reports by human rights organisations Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch issued in April 2012 said the same violations were still happening.\nThe documentary TV film \"\" which was produced by the Qatari channel Al Jazeera, talks about the Bahraini protests during 2011. This TV film showed all the violations that have been taken against the rights of Bahraini citizens during the uprising. It also caused some problems between the Bahraini and the Qatari governments. Relations between Bahrain and Qatar improved following a meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council in November 2014 in which it was announced Bahrain diplomats would return to Qatar.\n\nAmnesty International's 2015 report on the country points to continued suppression of dissent, restricted freedom of expression, unjust imprisonment, and frequent torture and other ill-treatment of its citizens. Human Rights Watch in its 2015 report described the situation of a Shia majority as more than tragic. Freedom House labels Bahrain as \"not free\" in its 2016 report. On 7 July 2016, the European Parliament adopted, with a large majority, a resolution condemning human rights abuses performed by Bahraini authorities, and strongly called for an end to the ongoing repression against the country's human rights defenders, political opposition and civil society.\nIn August 2017, United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke against the discrimination of Shias in Bahrain, saying, \"Members of the Shia community there continue to report ongoing discrimination in government employment, education, and the justice system,\" and that \"Bahrain must stop discriminating against the Shia communities.\" He also stated that “In Bahrain, the government continue to question, detain and arrest Shia clerics, community members and opposition politicians.\" However, in September 2017, the U.S. State Department has approved arms sales packages worth more than $3.8 billion to Bahrain including F-16 jets, upgrades, missiles and patrol boats. In its latest report the Amnesty International accused both, US and the UK governments, of turning a blind eye to horrific abuses of human rights by the ruling Bahraini regime. On 31 Jan 2018, Amnesty International reported that the Bahraini government expelled four of its citizens after having revoked their nationality in 2012; turning them into stateless people. Bahrain has been rated \"not free\" on the Freedom House Index.\n\nWomen's political rights in Bahrain increased when women were granted the right to vote and stand in national elections for the first time in the 2002 election. However, no women were elected to office in that year's polls. In response to the failure of women candidates, six were appointed to the Shura Council, which also includes representatives of the Kingdom's indigenous Jewish and Christian communities. Dr. Nada Haffadh became the country's first female cabinet minister on her appointment as Minister of Health in 2004. The quasi-governmental women's group, the Supreme Council for Women, trained female candidates to take part in the 2006 general election. When Bahrain was elected to head the United Nations General Assembly in 2006 it appointed lawyer and women's rights activist Haya bint Rashid Al Khalifa President of the United Nations General Assembly, only the third woman in history to head the world body. Female activist Ghada Jamsheer said \"The government used women's rights as a decorative tool on the international level.\" She referred to the reforms as \"artificial and marginal\" and accused the government of \"hinder[ing] non-governmental women societies\".\n\nIn 2006, Lateefa Al Gaood became the first female MP after winning by default. The number rose to four after the 2011 by-elections. In 2008, Houda Nonoo was appointed ambassador to the United States making her the first Jewish ambassador of any Arab country. In 2011, Alice Samaan, a Christian woman was appointed ambassador to the UK.\n\nBahraini journalists risk prosecution for offenses which include \"undermining\" the government and religion. Self-censorship is widespread. Journalists were targeted by officials during anti-government protests in 2011. Three editors from opposition daily \"Al-Wasat\" were sacked and later fined for publishing \"false\" news. Several foreign correspondents were expelled.\n\nMost domestic broadcasters are state-run. An independent commission, set up to look into the unrest, found that state media coverage was at times inflammatory. It said opposition groups suffered from lack of access to mainstream media, and recommended that the government \"consider relaxing censorship\". Bahrain will host the Saudi-financed Alarab News Channel, expected to launch in December 2012. It will be based at a planned \"Media City\". An opposition satellite station, Lualua TV, operates from London but has found its signals blocked.\n\nBy June 2012, Bahrain had 961,000 internet users. The platform \"provides a welcome free space for journalists, although one that is increasingly monitored\", according to Reporters Without Borders. Rigorous filtering targets political, human rights, religious material and content deemed obscene. Bloggers and other netizens were among those detained during protests in 2011.\n\nThe kingdom has a small but well equipped military called the Bahrain Defence Force (BDF), numbering around 13,000 personnel. The supreme commander of the Bahraini military is King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa and the deputy supreme commander is the Crown Prince, Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa.\n\nThe BDF is primarily equipped with United States equipment, such as the F-16 Fighting Falcon, F-5 Freedom Fighter, UH-60 Blackhawk, M60A3 tanks, and the ex-, an Oliver Hazard Perry class frigate renamed the .\n\nThe Government of Bahrain has close relations with the United States, having signed a cooperative agreement with the United States Military and has provided the United States a base in Juffair since the early 1990s, although a US naval presence existed since 1948. This is the home of the headquarters for Commander, \"United States Naval Forces Central Command\" (COMUSNAVCENT) / \"United States Fifth Fleet\" (COMFIFTHFLT), and around 6,000 United States military personnel.\n\nBahrain participates in the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen against the Shia Houthis and forces loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who was deposed in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising. Many civilians have died and large parts of the infrastructure in this region were destroyed.\n\nBahrain established bilateral relations with 190 countries worldwide. , Bahrain maintains a network of 25 embassies, 3 consulates and 4 permanent missions to the Arab League, United Nations and European Union respectively. Bahrain also hosts 36 embassies. Bahrain plays a modest, moderating role in regional politics and adheres to the views of the Arab League on Middle East peace and Palestinian rights by supporting the two state solution. Bahrain is also one of the founding members of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Relations with Iran tend to be tense as a result of a failed coup in 1981 which Bahrain blames Iran for and occasional claims of Iranian sovereignty over Bahrain by ultra-conservative elements in the Iranian public.\n\nSaudi Arabian troops were sent into Bahrain to crush a pro-democracy protests in 2011.\n\nThe first municipality in Bahrain was the 8-member Manama municipality which was established in July 1919. Members of the municipality were elected annually; the municipality was said to have been the first municipality to be established in the Arab world. The municipality was in charge of cleaning roads and renting buildings to tenants and shops. By 1929, it undertook road expansions as well as opening markets and slaughterhouses. In 1958, the municipality started water purification projects. In 1960, Bahrain comprised four municipalities: \"Manama\", \"Hidd\", \"Al Muharraq\", and \"Riffa\". Over the next 30 years, the 4 municipalities were divided into 12 municipalities as settlements such as Hamad Town and Isa Town grew. These municipalities were administered from Manama under a central municipal council whose members are appointed by the king.\n\nThe first municipal elections to be held in Bahrain after independence in 1971, was in 2002. The most recent was in 2010. The municipalities are listed below:\n\nAfter 3 July 2002, Bahrain was split into five administrative governorates, each of which has its own governor. These governorates are:\n\nThe Central Governorate was abolished in September 2014, its territory divided between the Northern Governorate, Southern Governorate, and Capital Governorate.\n\nThe United States designated Bahrain a major non-NATO ally in 2001. , Bahrain is ruled by an \"authoritarian regime\" and is rated as \"Not Free\" by the U.S.-based non-governmental Freedom House.\n\nAccording to a January 2006 report by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, Bahrain has the fastest-growing economy in the Arab world. Bahrain also has the freest economy in the Middle East and is twelfth-freest overall in the world based on the 2011 Index of Economic Freedom published by the Heritage Foundation/\"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn 2008, Bahrain was named the world's fastest-growing financial center by the City of London's Global Financial Centres Index. Bahrain's banking and financial services sector, particularly Islamic banking, have benefited from the regional boom driven by demand for oil. Petroleum production and processing is Bahrain's most exported product, accounting for 60% of export receipts, 70% of government revenues, and 11% of GDP. Aluminium production is the second-most exported product, followed by finance and construction materials.\n\nEconomic conditions have fluctuated with the changing price of oil since 1985, for example during and following the Persian Gulf crisis of 1990–91. With its highly developed communication and transport facilities, Bahrain is home to a number of multinational firms and construction proceeds on several major industrial projects. A large share of exports consist of petroleum products made from imported crude oil, which accounted for 51% of the country's imports in 2007. Bahrain depends heavily on food imports to feed its growing population; it relies heavily on meat imports from Australia and also imports 75% of its total fruit consumption needs. Since only 2.9% of the country's land is arable, agriculture contributes to 0.5% of Bahrain's GDP. In 2004, Bahrain signed the Bahrain–US Free Trade Agreement, which will reduce certain trade barriers between the two nations. In 2011, due to the combination of the global financial crisis and the recent unrest, the gdp growth rate decreased to 1.3%, which was the lowest growth rate since 1994.\n\nUnemployment, especially among the young, and the depletion of both oil and underground water resources are major long-term economic problems. In 2008, the jobless figure was at 4%, with women over represented at 85% of the total. In 2007 Bahrain became the first Arab country to institute unemployment benefits as part of a series of labour reforms instigated under Minister of Labour, Dr. Majeed Al Alawi.\n\nAs a tourist destination, Bahrain received over eight million visitors in 2008, though the exact number varies yearly. Most of these are from the surrounding Arab states although an increasing number hail from outside the region due to growing awareness of the kingdom's heritage and its higher profile as a result of the Bahrain International F1 Circuit.\n\nThe kingdom combines modern Arab culture and the archaeological legacy of five thousand years of civilisation. The island is home to forts including Qalat Al Bahrain which has been listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. The Bahrain National Museum has artefacts from the country's history dating back to the island's first human inhabitants some 9000 years ago and the Beit Al Quran (Arabic: بيت القرآن, meaning: the House of Qur'an) is a museum that holds Islamic artefacts of the Qur'an. Some of the popular historical tourist attractions in the kingdom are the Al Khamis Mosque, which is one of the oldest mosques in the region, the Arad fort in Muharraq, Barbar temple, which is an ancient temple from the Dilmunite period of Bahrain, as well as the A'ali Burial Mounds and the Saar temple. The Tree of Life, a 400-year-old tree that grows in the Sakhir desert with no nearby water, is also a popular tourist attraction.\n\nBird watching (primarily in the Hawar Islands), scuba diving, and horse riding are popular tourist activities in Bahrain. Many tourists from nearby Saudi Arabia and across the region visit Manama primarily for the shopping malls in the capital Manama, such as the Bahrain City Centre and Seef Mall in the Seef district of Manama. The Manama Souq and \"Gold Souq\" in the old district of Manama are also popular with tourists.\n\nSince 2005, Bahrain hosts an annual festival in March, titled \"Spring of Culture\", which features internationally renowned musicians and artists performing in concerts. Manama was named the Arab Capital of Culture for 2012 and \"Capital of Arab Tourism\" for 2013 by the Arab League. The 2012 festival featured concerts starring Andrea Bocelli, Julio Iglesias and other musicians.\n\nBahrain has one main international airport, the Bahrain International Airport (BIA) which is located on the island of Muharraq, in the north-east. The airport handled more than 100,000 flights and more than 8 million passengers in 2010. Bahrain's national carrier, Gulf Air operates and bases itself in the BIA.\n\nBahrain has a well-developed road network, particularly in Manama. The discovery of oil in the early 1930s accelerated the creation of multiple roads and highways in Bahrain, connecting several isolated villages, such as Budaiya, to Manama.\n\nTo the east, a bridge connected Manama to Muharraq since 1929, a new causeway was built in 1941 which replaced the old wooden bridge. Currently there are three modern bridges connecting the two locations. Transits between the two islands peaked after the construction of the Bahrain International Airport in 1932. Ring roads and highways were later built to connect Manama to the villages of the Northern Governorate and towards towns in central and southern Bahrain.\n\nThe four main islands and all the towns and villages are linked by well-constructed roads. There were of roadways in 2002, of which were paved. A causeway stretching over , connect Manama with Muharraq Island, and another bridge joins Sitra to the main island. The King Fahd Causeway, measuring , links Bahrain with the Saudi Arabian mainland via the island of Umm an-Nasan. It was completed in December 1986, and financed by Saudi Arabia. In 2008, there were 17,743,495 passengers transiting through the causeway.\n\nBahrain's port of Mina Salman is the main seaport of the country and consists of 15 berths. In 2001, Bahrain had a merchant fleet of eight ships of 1,000 GRT or over, totaling 270,784 GRT. Private vehicles and taxis are the primary means of transportation in the city.\n\nThe telecommunications sector in Bahrain officially started in 1981 with the establishment of Bahrain's first telecommunications company, Batelco and until 2004, it monopolised the sector. In 1981, there were more than 45,000 telephones in use in the country. By 1999, Batelco had more than 100,000 mobile contracts. In 2002, under pressure from international bodies, Bahrain implemented its telecommunications law which included the establishment of an independent \"Telecommunications Regulatory Authority\" (TRA). In 2004, Zain (a rebranded version of MTC Vodafone) started operations in Bahrain and in 2010 VIVA (owned by STC Group) became the third company to provide mobile services.\n\nBahrain has been connected to the internet since 1995 with the country's domain suffix is '.bh'. The country's connectivity score (a statistic which measures both Internet access and fixed and mobile telephone lines) is 210.4 percent per person, while the regional average in Arab States of the Persian Gulf is 135.37 percent. The number of Bahraini internet users has risen from 40,000 in 2000 to 250,000 in 2008, or from 5.95 to 33 percent of the population. , the TRA has licensed 22 Internet Service Providers.\n\nThe \"Bahraini Economic Vision 2030\" published in 2008 does not indicate how the stated goal of shifting from an economy built on oil wealth to a productive, globally competitive economy will be attained. Bahrain has already diversified its exports to some extent, out of necessity. It has the smallest hydrocarbon reserves of any Gulf state, producing 48,000 barrels per day from its one onshore field. The bulk of the country's revenue comes from its share in the offshore field administered by Saudi Arabia. The gas reserve in Bahrain is expected to last for less than 27 years, leaving the country with few sources of capital to pursue the development of new industries. Investment in research and development remained very low in 2013.\n\nApart from the Ministry of Education and the Higher Education Council, the two main hives of activity in science, technology, and innovation are the University of Bahrain (established in 1986) and the Bahrain Centre for Strategic, International, and Energy Studies. The latter was founded in 2009 to undertake research with a focus on strategic security and energy issues to encourage new thinking and influence policy-making.\n\nBahrain hopes to build a science culture within the kingdom and to encourage technological innovation, among other goals. In 2013, the Bahrain Science Centre was launched as an interactive educational facility targeting 6–18-year olds. The topics covered by current exhibitions include junior engineering, human health, the five senses, Earth sciences and biodiversity.\n\nIn April 2014, Bahrain launched its National Space Science Agency. The agency has been working to ratify international space-related agreements such as the Outer Space Treaty, the Rescue Agreement, the Space Liability Convention, the Registration Convention and the Moon Agreement. The agency plans to establish infrastructure for the observation of both outer space and the Earth.\n\nIn November 2008, an agreement was signed to establish a Regional Centre for Information and Communication Technology in Manama under the auspices of UNESCO. The aim is to establish a knowledge hub for the six member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council. In March 2012, the centre hosted two high-level workshops on ICTs and education. In 2013, Bahrain topped the Arab world for internet penetration (90% of the population), trailed by the United Arab Emirates (86%) and Qatar (85%). Just half of Bahrainis and Qataris (53%) and two-thirds of those in the United Arab Emirates (64%) had access in 2009.\n\nIn 2012, the government devoted 2.6% of GDP to education, one of the lowest ratios in the Arab world. This ratio was on a par with investment in education in Lebanon and higher only than that in Qatar (2.4% in 2008) and Sudan (2.2% in 2009).\n\nBahrain invests little in research and development. In 2009 and 2013, this investment reportedly amounted to 0.04% of GDP, although the data were incomplete, covering only the higher education sector. The lack of comprehensive data on research and development poses a challenge for policy-makers, as data inform evidence-based policy-making.\n\nThe available data for researchers in 2013 only cover the higher education sector. Here, the number of researchers is equivalent to 50 per million inhabitants, compared to a global average for all employment sectors of 1,083 per million.\n\nThe University of Bahrain had over 20,000 students in 2014, 65% of whom are women, and around 900 faculty members, 40% of whom are women. From 1986 to 2014, university staff published 5 500 papers and books. The university spent about US$11 million per year on research in 2014, which was conducted by a contingent of 172 men and 128 women. Women thus made up 43% of researchers at the University of Bahrain in 2014.\n\nBahrain was one of 11 Arab states which counted a majority of female university graduates in science and engineering in 2014. Women accounted for 66% of graduates in natural sciences, 28% of those in engineering and 77% of those in health and welfare. It is harder to judge the contribution of women to research, as the data for 2013 only cover the higher education sector.\n\nIn 2014, Bahraini scientists published 155 articles in internationally cataloged journals, according to Thomson Reuters' Web of Science (Science Citation Index Expanded). This corresponds to 15 articles per million inhabitants, compared to a global average of 176 per million inhabitants in 2013. Scientific output has risen slowly from 93 articles in 2005 and remains modest. By 2014, only Mauritania and Palestine had a smaller output in this database among Arab states.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2014, Bahraini scientists collaborated most with their peers from Saudi Arabia (137 articles), followed by Egypt (101), the United Kingdom (93), the United States (89) and Tunisia (75).\n\nIn 2010, Bahrain's population grew to 1.2 million, of which 568,399 were Bahraini and 666,172 were non-nationals. It had risen from 1.05 million (517,368 non-nationals) in 2007, the year when Bahrain's population crossed the one million mark. Though a majority of the population is Middle Eastern, a sizeable number of people from South Asia live in the country. In 2008, approximately 290,000 Indian nationals lived in Bahrain, making them the single largest expatriate community in the country. Bahrain is the fourth most densely populated sovereign state in the world with a population density of 1,646 people per km in 2010. The only sovereign states with larger population densities are city states. Much of this population is concentrated in the north of the country with the Southern Governorate being the least densely populated part. The north of the country is so urbanised that it is considered by some to be one large metropolitan area.\n\nBahraini people are ethnically diverse. Shia Bahrainis are divided into two main ethnic groups: Baharna and Ajam. The Shia Bahrainis are Baharna (Arab), and the Ajam are Persian Shias. Shia Persians form large communities in Manama and Muharraq. A small minority of Shia Bahrainis are ethnic Hasawis from Al-Hasa.\n\nSunni Bahrainis are mainly divided into two main ethnic groups: Arabs (al Arab) and Huwala. Sunni Arabs are the most influential ethnic group in Bahrain, they hold most government positions and the Bahraini monarchy are Sunni Arabs. Sunni Arabs have traditionally lived in areas such as Zallaq, Muharraq, Riffa and Hawar islands. The Huwala are descendants of Sunni Iranians; some of them are Sunni Persians, while others Sunni Arabs. There are also Sunnis of Baloch origin. Most Bahrainis of African origin come from east Africa and have traditionally lived in Muharraq Island and Riffa.\n\nThe state religion of Bahrain is Islam and most Bahraini citizens are Muslim. The majority of Muslims are Shiites, although there are no official figures for the proportion of Shia and Sunni among the Muslims of Bahrain.\n\nThe Muslim population is numbered 866,888 according to the 2010 census.\n\nThere is a native Christian community in Bahrain. Non-Muslim Bahraini residents numbered 367,683 per the 2010 census, most of whom are Christians. Expatriate Christians make up the majority of Christians in Bahrain, while native Christian Bahrainis (who hold Bahraini citizenship) make up a smaller community. Alees Samaan, a former Bahraini ambassador to the United Kingdom is a native Christian. Bahrain also has a native Jewish community numbering thirty-seven Bahraini citizens. Various sources cite Bahrain's native Jewish community as being from 36 to 50 people.\nDue to an influx of immigrants and guest workers from southern Asian countries, such as India, the Philippines and Sri Lanka, the overall percentage of Muslims in the country has declined in recent years. According to the 2001 census, 81.2% of Bahrain's population was Muslim, 10% were Christian, and 9.8% practised Hinduism or other religions. The 2010 census records that the Muslim proportion had fallen to 70.2% (the 2010 census did not differentiate between the non-Muslim religions). Bahrain government officials rejected reports from Bahraini opposition that the administration was trying to alter the country's demographics by naturalizing Sunni Syrians. Baha'is constitute approximately 1% of Bahrain's total population.\nArabic is the official language of Bahrain, though English is widely used. Bahrani Arabic is the most widely spoken dialect of the Arabic language, though it differs widely from standard Arabic, like all Arabic dialects. Arabic plays an important role in political life, as, according to of Bahrain's constitution, an MP must be fluent in Arabic to stand for parliament. Among the Bahraini and non-Bahraini population, many people speak Persian, the official language of Iran, or Urdu, an official language in Pakistan and a regional language in India. Nepali is also widely spoken in the Nepalese workers and Gurkha Soldiers community. Malayalam, Tamil and Hindi are spoken among significant Indian communities. All commercial institutions and road signs are bilingual, displaying both English and Arabic.\n\nEducation is compulsory for children between the ages of 6 and 14. Education is free for Bahraini citizens in public schools, with the Bahraini Ministry of Education providing free textbooks. Coeducation is not used in public schools, with boys and girls segregated into separate schools.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Qur'anic schools (\"Kuttab\") were the only form of education in Bahrain. They were traditional schools aimed at teaching children and youth the reading of the Qur'an. After World War I, Bahrain became open to western influences, and a demand for modern educational institutions appeared. 1919 marked the beginning of modern public school system in Bahrain when the Al-Hidaya Al-Khalifia School for boys opened in Muharraq. In 1926, the Education Committee opened the second public school for boys in Manama, and in 1928 the first public school for girls was opened in Muharraq. , there are a total of 126,981 students studying in public schools.\n\nIn 2004, King Hamad ibn Isa Al Khalifa introduced the \"King Hamad Schools of Future\" project that uses Information Communication Technology to support K–12 education in Bahrain. The project's objective is to connect all schools within the kingdom with the Internet. In addition to British intermediate schools, the island is served by the Bahrain School (BS). The BS is a United States Department of Defense school that provides a K-12 curriculum including International Baccalaureate offerings. There are also private schools that offer either the IB Diploma Programme or United Kingdom's A-Levels.\n\nBahrain also encourages institutions of higher learning, drawing on expatriate talent and the increasing pool of Bahrain nationals returning from abroad with advanced degrees. The University of Bahrain was established for standard undergraduate and graduate study, and the King Abdulaziz University College of Health Sciences, operating under the direction of the Ministry of Health, trains physicians, nurses, pharmacists and paramedics. The 2001 National Action Charter paved the way for the formation of private universities such as the Ahlia University in Manama and University College of Bahrain in Saar. The Royal University for Women (RUW), established in 2005, was the first private, purpose-built, international university in Bahrain dedicated solely to educating women. The University of London External has appointed MCG (Management Consultancy Group) as the regional representative office in Bahrain for distance learning programmes. MCG is one of the oldest private institutes in the country. Institutes have also opened which educate South Asian students, such as the Pakistan Urdu School, Bahrain and the Indian School, Bahrain. A few prominent institutions are DePaul University, Bentley University, the Ernst & Young Training Institute, New York Institute of Technology and the Birla Institute of Technology International Centre. In 2004, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) set up a constituent medical university in the country. In addition to the Arabian Gulf University, AMA International University and the College of Health Sciences, these are the only medical schools in Bahrain.\n\nBahrain has a universal health care system, dating back to 1960. Government-provided health care is free to Bahraini citizens and heavily subsidised for non-Bahrainis. Healthcare expenditure accounted for 4.5% of Bahrain's GDP, according to the World Health Organization. Bahraini physicians and nurses form a majority of the country's workforce in the health sector, unlike neighbouring Gulf states. The first hospital in Bahrain was the American Mission Hospital, which opened in 1893 as a dispensary. The first public hospital, and also tertiary hospital, to open in Bahrain was the Salmaniya Medical Complex, in the Salmaniya district of Manama, in 1957. Private hospitals are also present throughout the country, such as the International Hospital of Bahrain.\n\nThe life expectancy in Bahrain is 73 for males and 76 for females. Compared to many countries in the region, the prevalence of AIDS and HIV is relatively low. Malaria and tuberculosis (TB) do not constitute major problems in Bahrain as neither disease is indigenous to the country. As a result, cases of malaria and TB have declined in recent decades with cases of contractions amongst Bahraini nationals becoming rare. The Ministry of Health sponsors regular vaccination campaigns against TB and other diseases such as hepatitis B.\n\nBahrain is currently suffering from an obesity epidemic as 28.9% of all males and 38.2% of all females are classified as obese. Bahrain also has one of the highest prevalence of diabetes in the world (5th place), with more than 15% of the Bahraini population suffering from the disease, and accounting for 5% of deaths in the country. Cardiovascular diseases account for 32% of all deaths in Bahrain, being the number one cause of death in the country (the second being cancer). Sickle-cell anaemia and thalassaemia are prevalent in the country, with a study concluding that 18% of Bahrainis are carriers of sickle-cell anaemia while 24% are carriers of thalassaemia.\n\nIslam is the main religion, and Bahrainis are known for their tolerance towards the practice of other faiths. Intermarriages between Bahrainis and expatriates are not uncommon—there are many Filipino-Bahrainis like Filipino child actress Mona Marbella Al-Alawi.\n\nRules regarding female attire are generally relaxed compared to regional neighbours; the traditional attire of women usually include the hijab or the abaya. Although the traditional male attire is the thobe which also includes traditional headdresses such as the keffiyeh, ghutra and agal, Western clothing is common in the country.\n\nAlthough Bahrain legalized homosexuality in 1976, many homosexuals have since been arrested.\n\nThe modern art movement in the country officially emerged in the 1950s, culminating in the establishment of an art society. Expressionism and surrealism, as well as calligraphic art are the popular forms of art in the country. Abstract expressionism has gained popularity in recent decades. Pottery-making and textile-weaving are also popular products that were widely made in Bahraini villages. Arabic calligraphy grew in popularity as the Bahraini government was an active patron in Islamic art, culminating in the establishment of an Islamic museum, Beit Al Quran. The Bahrain national museum houses a permanent contemporary art exhibition. The architecture of Bahrain is similar to that of its neighbours in the Persian Gulf. The wind tower, which generates natural ventilation in a house, is a common sight on old buildings, particularly in the old districts of Manama and Muharraq.\n\nLiterature retains a strong tradition in the country; most traditional writers and poets write in the classical Arabic style. In recent years, the number of younger poets influenced by western literature are rising, most writing in free verse and often including political or personal content. Ali Al Shargawi, a decorated longtime poet, was described in 2011 by \"Al Shorfa\" as the literary icon of Bahrain.\n\nIn literature, Bahrain was the site of the ancient land of Dilmun mentioned in the Epic of Gilgamesh. Legend also states that it was the location of the Garden of Eden.\n\nThe music style in Bahrain is similar to that of its neighbors. The Khaliji style of music, which is folk music, is popular in the country. The sawt style of music, which involves a complex form of urban music, performed by an Oud (plucked lute), a violin and mirwas (a drum), is also popular in Bahrain. Ali Bahar was one of the most famous singers in Bahrain. He performed his music with his Band \"Al-Ekhwa\" (\"The Brothers\"). Bahrain was also the site of the first recording studio amongst the Persian Gulf states.\n\nBahrain is the first nation other than United States of America to host International Mixed Martial Arts Federation World Championships of Amateur MMA. Bahrain have recorded an influx in global athletes visiting the nation for Mixed Martial Arts training during 2017.\n\nIn 2018, Cricket was introduced in Bahrain under initiative of KHK Sports and Exelon. Bahrain Premier League 2018 comprised six franchise squads of 13 resident cricketers competing in the T20 format. The teams were SRam MRam Falcons, Kalaam Knight-Riders, Intex Lions, Bahrain Super Giants, Four Square Challengers and Awan Warriors.\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in Bahrain. Bahrain's national football team has competed multiple times at the Asian Cup, Arab Nations Cup and played in the FIFA World Cup qualifiers, though it has never qualified for the World Cup. Bahrain has its own top-tier domestic professional football league, the Bahraini Premier League. Basketball, rugby and horse racing are also widely popular in the country. The government of Bahrain also sponsors a UCI WorldTeam cycling team, Bahrain–Merida, which participated in the 2017 Tour de France.\n\nBrave Combat Federation is a Bahrain-based Mixed Martial Arts promotion which has hosted events in Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Brazil, Kazakhstan, and India. Bahrain MMA Federation (BMMAF) has been set up under the patronage of Sheikh Khalid bin Hamad Al Khalifa and the jurisdiction of the Sports Minister, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad Al Khalifa. The development of MMA in the nation is convened through KHK MMA, which owns Brave Combat Federation which is the largest Mixed Martial Arts promotion in the Middle East. Bahrain will be hosting Amateur World Championships 2017 in association with International Mixed Martial Arts Federation. Bahrain will be the first Asian and Arab country to host the amateur MMA championship.\nBahrain has a Formula One race-track, which hosted the inaugural Gulf Air Bahrain Grand Prix on 4 April 2004, the first in an Arab country. This was followed by the Bahrain Grand Prix in 2005. Bahrain hosted the opening Grand Prix of the 2006 season on 12 March of that year. Both the above races were won by Fernando Alonso of Renault. The race has since been hosted annually, except for 2011 when it was cancelled due to ongoing anti-government protests. The 2012 race occurred despite concerns of the safety of the teams and the ongoing protests in the country. The decision to hold the race despite ongoing protests and violence has been described as \"controversial\" by Al Jazeera English, CNN, AFP and Sky News. \"The Independent\" named it \"one of the most controversial in the history of the sport\".\n\nIn 2006, Bahrain also hosted its inaugural Australian V8 Supercar event dubbed the \"Desert 400\". The V8s returned every November to the Sakhir circuit until 2010, in which it was the second event of the series. The series has not returned since. The Bahrain International Circuit also features a full-length dragstrip where the Bahrain Drag Racing Club has organised invitational events featuring some of Europe's top drag racing teams to try to raise the profile of the sport in the Middle East.\n\nOn 1 September 2006, Bahrain changed its weekend from being Thursdays and Fridays to Fridays and Saturdays, in order to have a day of the weekend shared with the rest of the world. Notable holidays in the country are listed below:\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "47086296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47086296", "title": "Before This Night Is Over", "text": "Before This Night Is Over\n\nBefore This Night Is Over () is a 1966 Slovak drama film directed by Peter Solan.\n"}
{"id": "14330640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14330640", "title": "Bernese March", "text": "Bernese March\n\nThe Bernese March (German Berner Marsch; French La Marche de Berne) is the traditional anthem of the Swiss Canton of Bern and is played at official occasions.\n\nThe march is of uncertain date; originally sung by Bernese mercenaries, it was adopted as the anthem of the Bernese Republic. It is now normally performed in the instrumental version, because the Bernese German lyrics are not widely known and no French lyrics exist.\n\nThe following is the most frequently reproduced version of the traditional Bernese German lyrics, complemented with a Standard German and English translation by the authors of this article.\n\nAn older variant of the text replaces \"Stark und frey in Not und G'fahre\" in the first stanza with \"Die, wo z'Fuess und z'Sattel fahre\" (\"Those on foot and those in the saddle\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1706367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1706367", "title": "Botswana People's Party", "text": "Botswana People's Party\n\nThe Botswana People's Party (BPP) was formed as the Bechuanaland People's Party during Botswana's colonial era, in December 1960. As a result of disappointment with the Legislative Council, under the leadership of Kgalemang T. Motsete, an accomplished music composer and educationist, BPP became the first mass party to agitate for full independence.\n\nMotsamai Mpho, who had been tried for treason under the Union of South Africa Terrorism Act, was the secretary general. Internal dissension during the first national elections in 1965 resulted in a schism and the birth of the Bechuanaland Independence Party (now Botswana Independence Party) under Mpho's leadership. Motsete attempted to retain a small group of the BPP's old guard but lost power to Phillip Matante. The first general elections were held in March 1965, and the Bechuanaland Democratic Party (now Botswana Democratic Party) won a landslide victory, taking 28 of the 31 contested seats. BPP won three seats.\n\nThe party was formed in 1960 as the Bechuanaland People's Party under the leadership of Motsete, Matante and Mpho. The party's formation was indirectly stimulated by the flow of South African exiles following the Sharpeville massacre in March 1960. The party's structure was based on the African National Congress (ANC), but infighting quickly plagued the party. The party became an opposition party to the traditionalist Botswana Democratic Party, then led by Seretse Khama. .\n\nMotsete had political exposure and influence from the Pan-Africanism and South African political liberation movements, namely the ANC and the Pan African Congress (PAC). Kwame Nkruma and Ghanaian independence further influenced the BPP. The main objective of the party was to liberate the people of the Bechuanaland Protectorate from colonialism; this objective was achieved in September 1966 when the country became independent.\n\nMatante was the first president of BPP. He became the first member of parliament for Francistown and the leader of the opposition during independence in 1966. Matante's death created a power vacuum that led to the reversal of many of the gains that the party had made. In the 2014 general elections the BPP was granted six northern constituencies under the Umbrella for Democratic Change (UDC), as the north had historically been a BPP stronghold, but lost each one of them. The party's goal became to rebrand for the 2019 elections by establishing youth structures and regaining interest in the party under the leadership of president Mbaakanyi Smart..\n\nBPP always advocated for opposition unity. In 1989, they had a working relationship with the now defunct Botswana Progressive Party. They were part of the Botswana Alliance Movement and PACT and joined the UDC. However, BPP continues to advocate for a complete merger of opposition parties, primarily because these pacts have proved to be fragile and prone to defections. Their #RonaKoBPP social media hash tag received recognition across social media platforms.\n\nThe party held its 50th elective congress under the theme \"Proud of the Past, Confident of the Future\", where a new National Executive Committee was elected. For the first time it included people from all parts of the country in an attempt to nationalize the party, weakening the perception that the BPP serves only Botswana in the north.\n\nBPPs principles are: \n\nThe BPP motto is \"Lefatshe la Rona\", \"Shango Yedu\", and \"Ilizwe nge lethu!\"\n"}
{"id": "5734076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734076", "title": "Budget support", "text": "Budget support\n\nBudget support is a particular way of giving international development aid, also known as an aid instrument or aid modality. With budget support, money is given directly to a recipient country government, usually from a donor government. Budget support differs from other types of aid modalities such as:\n\nIn practice, budget support varies dramatically and is done in a large range of different ways. One of the broadest distinctions is between general budget support and sector budget support.\n\nGeneral budget support is unearmarked contributions to the government budget including funding to support the implementation of macroeconomic reforms (structural adjustment programmes, poverty reduction strategies).\n\nBudget support is a method of financing a recipient country’s budget through a transfer of resources from an external financing agency to the recipient government’s national treasury. The funds thus transferred are managed in accordance with the recipient’s budgetary procedures.\n\nFunds transferred to the national treasury for financing programmes or projects managed according to different budgetary procedures from those of the recipient country, with the intention of earmarking the resources for specific uses, are therefore excluded.\n\nSector budget support, like general budget support, is an un earmarked financial contribution to a recipient government’s budget. However, in sector budget support, the dialogue between donors and partner governments focuses on sector-specific concerns, rather than on overall policy and budget priorities.\n\nThe underlying rationale for budget support is variously seen as:\n\na) Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) describe how highly fragmented, ad hoc, small projects were not delivering results and cumulatively may have been undermining aid agencies' own objectives. There is some evidence that the effect of ad hoc, small projects is not systematic, but there is a wide range of individual evaluations of project as well as some more meta-review data such as Wapenhans report (1992) and ‘Assessing Aid’ (1998). Thus the ODI highlights the following benefits:\n\nb) that building recipient government capacity and accountability to their own populations for service delivery, as the only sustainable way of reducing poverty in the long term. Evidence is scarce, since it is hard to tell what level and type of effect budget support is or even could have on these long term and highly political processes. The findings of the largest review to date are over all positive. For more information, see the 8-country evaluation of GBS (1994-2004), 4-page summary: http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/16/63/37421292.pdf\n\nIn practice the other types of aid instruments are still running concomitantly which means the potential expressed in the underlying rationale is unlikely to be fully tested.\n\nThe risks for donor governments and recipient governments are very different. The literature describes a range some of which are summarised below.\n\nFor the donor government the risks include:\n\nFor the recipient government the risks include:\n"}
{"id": "46712375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46712375", "title": "Bus (Bulgarian play)", "text": "Bus (Bulgarian play)\n\nBus () is a 1980 satirical play by Bulgarian playwright Stanislav Stratiev. It premiered at Sofia's Satirical Theatre om March 29, 1980. In 2007, the play was presented at the festival in Avignon, France in the French title of \"L' Autobus\".\n\nNine people are traveling on a public bus to the city center, but the bus suddenly deviates from its route. Passengers begin to realize that they will never get to where they are going. Fear, panic and terror turn them into transparent humanoid mass. The play then deals with questions facing humanity as they face their impending doom.\n"}
{"id": "26763778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26763778", "title": "Canal Vasco", "text": "Canal Vasco\n\nCanal Vasco (\"Basque channel\" in Spanish) is the name that the Euskal Irrati Telebista group uses to broadcast its international television channel, ETB Sat, via satellite and CATV operators in the Americas.\n\nThis channel brings Basque-language television and Basque culture to the large Basque community residing in the Americas, as well as other citizens of these areas. Its programming is based primarily on self-produced content from the domestic flagship channels ETB 1 and ETB 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "27578525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27578525", "title": "Chiesa di San Paolo apostolo", "text": "Chiesa di San Paolo apostolo\n\nChiesa di San Paolo apostolo is a church in San Marino. It belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Marino-Montefeltro. It was built from 1898 and consecrated in 1917.\n"}
{"id": "10342013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10342013", "title": "Como tudo começou", "text": "Como tudo começou\n\n\"Como tudo começou\" (\"How everything began\") was the Portuguese entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999, performed in Portuguese by Rui Bandeira.\n\nThe song is a ballad, with Bandeira lamenting the end of a relationship. From the lyrics, it seems that he inadvertently caused this to happen. He begs his lover not to leave him, but ultimately appears resigned to his fate.\n\nThe song was performed sixteenth on the night (following Sweden's Charlotte Nilsson with \"Take Me To Your Heaven\" and preceding Ireland's The Mullans with \"When You Need Me\"). At the close of voting, it had received 12 points (all from France), placing 21st in a field of 23.\n\nDue to the rapidly expanding size of the Contest, the decision was taken to restrict participation in the 2000 contest to those countries with the best average results over the previous 5 years, a group which did not include Portugal. As a country broadcasting but not entering that Contest (a so-called \"passive participant\"), Portugal was re-admitted in the following year. Thus, the song was succeeded as Portuguese representative at the 2001 Contest by MTM with \"Só sei ser feliz assim\".\n"}
{"id": "18562476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18562476", "title": "Conseil national de la Résistance (1962)", "text": "Conseil national de la Résistance (1962)\n\nThe Conseil national de la Résistance (CNR) was an underground French nationalist militant organization, founded 20 May 1962 in Rome. It was named after the 1943 \"Conseil national de la Résistance\" French resistance organization. It was dissolved in 1963, when Antoine Argoud was arrested by the French secret service in Munich, charged with the attempted assassination of French president Charles de Gaulle, and several of the other members went into exile, facing charges from the government. In 1968, a general amnesty was issued, Argoud was released from prison, and several of the former CNR members returned to France, some even returning to public life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1663187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1663187", "title": "Cubismo", "text": "Cubismo\n\nCubismo is a Croatian music band of eleven members playing salsa and latin jazz. The band was formed in 1995 by a gathering of eight eminent musicians from various Croatian music bands. They also featured a Venezuelan vocalist Ricardo Luque.\n\nThe name Cubismo was created from Dizzy Gillespie's piece \"Cu-bi Cu-bop\", which represents one of the first music mixes of jazz and afro-Cuban music. The name is associated with Cuba as well, which has a music tradition known as the cornerstone of entire music genre made and performed by Cubismo.\n\nTheir sound is characterized by multiplicity of instruments and expressively strong dance rhythm produced by a multi-member rhythm section. Besides remakes of standard jazz pieces, popular and traditional Cuban songs, they perform their own pieces.\n\nThey are signed with the record label, Aquarius Records (Croatia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42101604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42101604", "title": "Digital Kosovo", "text": "Digital Kosovo\n\nDigital Kosovo is a digital advocacy platform, a component of the Digital Diplomacy Strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Kosovo) and implemented by the Kosovan entrepreneur Kushtrim Xhakli and IPKO Foundation, with support of the British Council and Norwegian Embassy. The initiative is focused on enabling Kosovo citizens to act as digital diplomats, take part in online advocacy and help integrate Kosovo into the digital landscape.\n\nThe platform launched on 2 September 2013 with the sole aim of supporting Kosovo's integration into the digital world, and ever since it has mobilised a community of over 1,200 active users who are engaged in hundreds of digital diplomacy actions by sending requests to different institutions. As of February 2014, Digital Kosovo has successfully integrated Kosovo on popular platforms like Facebook, Google, Dropbox, Oracle, World Wide Web Consortium.\n\nOn 28 December 2013, Digital Kosovo initiative won Digital Engagement of the year on the Digital Diplomacy Review published by Yenidiplomasi.com, a platform for advocacy, research, training, consulting and publication of digital diplomacy issues.\n"}
{"id": "7771760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7771760", "title": "Economic Vulnerability Index", "text": "Economic Vulnerability Index\n\n\"Economic vulnerability index\" is one of the criteria used by the United Nations Committee for Development Policy, an advisory body to the United Nations Economic and Social Council in the identification of Least Developed Countries.\n\nThe Economic Vulnerability Index is a composition of the following eight indicators: 1) population size, 2) remoteness, 3) merchandise export concentration, 4) share of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in gross domestic product, 5) homelessness owing to natural disasters, 6) instability of agricultural production, and 7) instability of exports of goods and services, 8) the share of population living in low elevated coastal zone.\n\nThe other criteria used to classify countries as least developed are: Gross national income per capita and the Human Asset Index. In addition, only low-income countries with population smaller than 75 million inhabitants can be considered for inclusion in the category.\n\nRetrospective series have been also calculated for 1990–2011.\n"}
{"id": "18075507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18075507", "title": "Embassy of Iceland in Moscow", "text": "Embassy of Iceland in Moscow\n\nThe Embassy of the Republic of Iceland in Moscow is the diplomatic mission of Iceland in the Russian Federation. It is located at 28 Khlebny Lane () in the Presnensky District of Moscow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12028001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12028001", "title": "Enkeltpersonforetak", "text": "Enkeltpersonforetak\n\nEnkeltpersonforetak (ENK) is a type of sole proprietorship in Norway. \n\nThe company is considered part of the personal assets of the owner, who holds the full juridical and economic liability of the company. The sole proprietorship entity holds a number of advantages, such as that there is no minimum equity, requirements for auditing or registration fee at the Brønnøysund Register Centre. Sole proprietorships do not have to have the two or three letter corresponding company type in the official company name. Instead they are required to have the surname of the proprietor somewhere in the company name.\n"}
{"id": "199093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199093", "title": "Finnish Infantry Division Generic Organisation", "text": "Finnish Infantry Division Generic Organisation\n\nFinnish Infantry Division Generic Organisation\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57832705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57832705", "title": "Formulaz", "text": "Formulaz\n\nFormulaz is an annual Laz festival and traditional wooden car race held each year on the 21st August, in the northern Turkish province of Rize's Ardeşen district. The name itself comes from the contraction of the word 'Formula' with 'Laz', which is the name used for the local people living on the edge of the Black Sea in Northern Turkey. \n\n"}
{"id": "2443769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2443769", "title": "Gabreta Forest", "text": "Gabreta Forest\n\nThe Gabreta Forest is an ancient forest mentioned by the Greek geographers, Strabo and Ptolemy. In the former it is termed the \"hule megale Gabreta\", or \"large wood, Gabreta\" (Book 7, Chapter 1, Section 5), and in the latter, \"hule Gabreta\", \"Gabreta Wood\" (Book 2 Chapter 10). It was located in the country of the Marcomanni and Quadi, south of the Sudetes, which identifies it with today's Šumava mountains straddling the border between Czech Republic and Bavaria. The name is believed to be Celtic, as the region is part of Bohemia, from which the Marcomanni and Quadi had driven the Celtic Boii not long before. One derivation yields \"woody mountain\".\n"}
{"id": "47822420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47822420", "title": "Global Public Policy Institute (GPPi)", "text": "Global Public Policy Institute (GPPi)\n\nThe Global Public Policy Institute (GPPi) is a non-profit think tank based in Berlin. Established in 2003, the institute focuses on topics related to foreign policy and global governance. Institute's mission is to improve global governance through research, policy advice and debate. \n\nGPPi opened its Berlin office in October 2003.\n\nGPPi has partnered and been supported by a number of organizations, foundations and academic institutions for its programs and projects.\n\nThe institute's Global Governance Futures - Multilateral Dialogues program has partnered with The Hertie School of Governance, Tsinghua University, Fudan University, The Tokyo Foundation, Keio University, Centre for Policy Research India, Ashoka University, The Brookings Institution and Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. The program is supported by the Robert Bosch Stiftung.\n\nThe institute's Global Norm Evolution & Responsibility to Protect project focuses on research and debate related to the Responsibility to Protect. This project has partnered with Central European University, Fundação Getúlio Vargas, Jawaharlal Nehru University, University of Oxford, Peking University and Peace Research Institute Frankfurt. The project is supported by Volkswagen Foundation, Bank of Sweden Tercentenary Foundation and .\n\n"}
{"id": "46626675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46626675", "title": "Graphic Communications Group Limited", "text": "Graphic Communications Group Limited\n\nThe Graphic Communications Group Limited is the leading and largest newspaper publishing company in Ghana\n\nGraphic Communications Group Limited was established in 1950 by the then Daily Mirror Group in UK.\n\nGraphic publishes and distributes all the popular national newspapers. There is the Daily Graphic which is the flagship and printed everyday except on Sundays. There is the Graphic Mirror, Graphic Sports, Graphic Business,Graphic Showbiz, and the Junior Graphic for its junior readers.\n"}
{"id": "26449487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26449487", "title": "I Love You (Vasyl Lazarovich song)", "text": "I Love You (Vasyl Lazarovich song)\n\n\"I Love You\" is a song composed by Brandon Stone and Olga Yarynich and performed by Vasyl Lazarovych, and was to represent Ukraine at the Eurovision Song Contest 2010 in May 2010 in Oslo, Norway. The song was selected on 6 March from five songs, all performed by Lazarovich.\n\nOn 17 March 2010, it was announced by the National Television Company of Ukraine (NTU), the Ukrainian national broadcaster, that Vasyl Lazarovich's participation would be cancelled, and that a new national final would be held to select a new Ukrainian entry for the contest after complaints over the broadcaster's internal selection of Lazarovich and not letting other performers attempt to compete. Lazarovich later took part in the new national final with \"I Love You\" on 20 March to attempt to continue his Eurovision participation, however finished in 7th place.\n"}
{"id": "17686271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686271", "title": "Institute for Global Ethics", "text": "Institute for Global Ethics\n\nThe Institute for Global Ethics (abbreviated IGE) is a 501(c)(3) nonsectarian, nonpartisan, global research and educational non-profit organization based in Middleton, Wisconsin. \n\nWith initial funding provided by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, the Institute for Global Ethics was founded by Rushworth Kidder in Camden, Maine in 1990. The Institute is dedicated to exploring the idea of shared moral values as well as committed to helping organizations and individuals put those values into practice, finding frameworks that tackle tough issues.\n\nTo promote ethical behavior in individuals, institutions, and nations through research, public discourse, and practical action.\n\nThrough its research, the Institute has developed a decision making framework currently being used by corporations, schools, governments, and organizations worldwide. This process has been trademarked by the Institute under the name Ethical Fitness. This framework is the main pedagogical thrust of Kidder’s book \"How Good People Make Tough Choices\".\n\n\nThe Institute has published an electronic weekly newsletter since February 1998 called Ethics Newsline.\n\n"}
{"id": "53823656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53823656", "title": "Intelsat K", "text": "Intelsat K\n\nIntelsat K (later termed Satcom K4 and NSS-K) was a geostationary communication satellite built by Lockheed Martin. It was located at orbital position of 21.5 degrees east longitude and was owned by SES World Skies. The satellite was based on the AS-5000 platform and its life expectancy was 10 years. He retired from service in August 2002 and was transferred to a graveyard orbit.\n\nThe satellite was purchased from Intelsat by New Skies and renamed to NSS-K. He is also the former Satom K4 of GE Americom. The satellite was successfully launched into space on June 10, 1992, by means of an Atlas-Centaur from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, United States. It had a launch mass of 2836 kg. It was equipped with 16 Ku band transponders.\n\n"}
{"id": "27650264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27650264", "title": "Lemavi", "text": "Lemavi\n\nThe Lemavi were an ancient Gallaecian Celtic tribe, living in the center-east of the modern Galicia, in the Monforte de Lemos's county.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5885898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5885898", "title": "List of Northern Ireland-related topics", "text": "List of Northern Ireland-related topics\n\nThis is a list of Northern Ireland–related topics. is a part of the United Kingdom in the north-east of the island of Ireland. It is variously described as a country, or region of the UK, amongst other terms. The following list of topics relating to Northern Ireland are grouped alphabetically.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "492491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492491", "title": "List of radio stations in Asia", "text": "List of radio stations in Asia\n\nThis is a list of radio stations in Asia.\n\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\n\nAll India Radio World Country In 2,or 4 Radio Station \n\n\nIslamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB) Domestic Stations:\nIRIB Foreign Stations:\nIRIB Provincial Stations:\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\nForeign Stations:\nForeign Stations:\nArmenian stations\nOnline stations\nForeign Stations:\n\nForeign Stations:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nForeign Stations:\n\n\n\nWikipedia's (in Chinese)\nForeign Stations: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26897728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26897728", "title": "Literatura și Arta", "text": "Literatura și Arta\n\nLiteratura şi Arta (Romanian for \"Literature and Art\") is a weekly newspaper from Chişinău, Moldova.\n\nThe first edition was printed in 1977. The first editor in chief was Victor Teleucă (1977–1983), Valeriu Senic (1983–1986). Among the authors were: , Dinu Mihail, Mircea Blajinu, Vlad Zbârciog, Mihail Ion Cibotaru, Iacob Burghiu, Iulian Nicuţă, Eugen Gheorghiţă, Haralambie Moraru, Ion Caţaveică.\n\nNicolae Dabija has been the editor in chief of Literatura şi Arta since 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "48084525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48084525", "title": "Man of the Forest (story)", "text": "Man of the Forest (story)\n\nMan of the Forest (; \"Tkis kaci\") Mikheil Javakhishvili story. First published in 1923. This short story is the writer's first work of \"The second period of the creativity\". \nOne day Paolo Iashvili told an amazing story, which later laid the basis for this story.\n\n"}
{"id": "30863688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863688", "title": "Mashriq", "text": "Mashriq\n\nThe Mashriq (, also Mashreq, Mashrek) is the historical region of the Arab world to the east of Egypt (sometimes including Egypt and Sudan). This comprises the modern states of Egypt, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, and Iraq. Poetically the \"place of sunrise\", the name is derived from the verb \"sharaqa\" ( \"to shine, illuminate, radiate\" and \"to rise\"), referring to the east, where the sun rises.\n\nAs the word \"Mashriq\" refers to countries bounded between the Mediterranean Sea and Iran, it is the companion term to \"Maghreb\" (), the western part of North Africa. Egypt occupies an ambiguous position: while it has cultural, ethnic and linguistic ties to both the Mashriq and the Maghreb, it is different from both, and is usually seen as being part of neither; however, when it is grouped with one or the other, it is generally considered as a part of the Mashriq, due to its closer ties to the Levant. Egypt and the Levant were often ruled as a single unit, as under the New Kingdom of Egypt, the Ayyubid dynasty, the Mamluk Sultanate, and for a time, under Muhammad Ali of Egypt. Similarly, Libya may itself be seen as bifurcated between Mashriq and Maghreb influences, with its eastern part (Cyrenaica) seen as linked more to Egypt and the Mashriq.\n\nThese geographical terms date from the early Islamic expansion. This region is similar to the Bilad al-Sham and Mesopotamian regions combined. , the Mashriq is home to 1.7% of the global population.\n\n"}
{"id": "16621526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16621526", "title": "Miodio", "text": "Miodio\n\nMiodio is a band that consists of three Italian and two Sammarinese members. They represented San Marino in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008, performing the song Complice. This was the first time San Marino had entered the competition. They failied to get past the first semi-final on May 20, only receiving 5 points and placing last of 19.\n\nMiodio was founded in the winter of 2002, and they have published a mini-album with 5 tracks.\nThis album was produced by the label \"Acanto\" owned by the producer and composer Andrea Felli. In 2007 they entered into an exclusive contract with Opera Prima, a record label, releasing their first single \"It's Ok\", which is still played by more than a hundred national radio stations. The song has been also included in the soundtrack of the movie \"Il Soffio dell'Anima\" and is listed in the iTunes Store.\n\nThe group was selected by an internal jury, after applying through an open invitation for entrants to represent San Marino.\n\nMiodio are the winners of the 17th edition of San Marino Festival as well as the winners of the prize 'Viva Music' and 'Best Original Song' at the 2006 Arts Festival in Bologna. They also represented San Marino at the 12th Biennial of Young Artists of Europe held in Naples, where the band presented a 30-minute filmshot, edited and produced by themselves and praised by an international jury.\n\nThe band was slated to record their first proper album containing eleven tracks, which was to be released in the summer of 2008, however nothing has materialised as yet.\n\nIn 2009 Miodio released the single Evoluzione Genetica which they performed at Wind Music Awards 2009.\n\nLate in 2009 they entered the revamped Newcomers' section of 2010 Festival della canzone italiana, with the new single called \"Perdo contatto\". (in English: Lose contact).\n\nIn 2008, Miodio was announced as San Marino's first participants at the Eurovision Song Contest for the 2008 contest. They were selected internally by Sammarinese broadcaster San Marino RTV with their song Complice, written by band members Francesco Sancisi and Nicola Della Valle. They participated in Belgrade, Serbia, at the first semi-final against 18 other countries. They, however, only received 5 points and finished last (19th) in the first semi-final.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4514606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4514606", "title": "National Committee of the Chinese Agricultural, Forestry and Water Conservancy Workers' Union", "text": "National Committee of the Chinese Agricultural, Forestry and Water Conservancy Workers' Union\n\nThe National Committee of the Chinese Agricultural, Forestry and Water Conservancy Workers’ Union is a national industrial union of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions in the People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "3273595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3273595", "title": "National Italo-Romanian Cultural and Economic Movement", "text": "National Italo-Romanian Cultural and Economic Movement\n\nThe National Italo-Romanian Cultural and Economic Movement () or National Italo-Romanian Fascist Movement () was a short-lived Fascist movement active in Romania during the early 1920s.\n\nThe movement was formed in 1921 by Elena Bacaloglu, a female journalist who had an Italian husband at the time, and was an acquaintance of Benito Mussolini (she had been briefly the wife of Ovid Densusianu). The group deliberately mimicked Italian fascism and stressed the close ethnic bonds between the Italians and the Romanians. The group attracted only around 100 members. The group was based in Cluj, where it was initially established. It was wound up in 1923, when it merged with the National Romanian Fascia to form the National Fascist Movement.\n"}
{"id": "13022253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022253", "title": "National Public Prosecutor's Office", "text": "National Public Prosecutor's Office\n\nNational Public Prosecutor's Office (, sometimes also translated as \"State Prosecutor's Office\") is the highest civil organizational unit in Poland's Prosecutor's offices. It's directed by National Public Prosecutor (\"Prokurator Krajowy\"). National Public Prosecutor is the second highest prosecutor office in Poland (after Public Prosecutor General).\n\nIn 2010 the National Public Prosecutor's Office was replaced by the General Public Prosecutor's Office (\"Prokuratura Generalna\"). The title \"Public Prosecutor General\", however, is still reserved for the one who supervises all other prosecutors (the difference is that he is now elected from independent candidates, and no longer a governmental minister).\n\nIn 2016, the National Public Prosecutor's Office was reinstated under the act of January 28, replacing the former General Public Prosecutor's Office. The office of the Public Prosecutor General is again combined with the office of the Polish Minister of Justice, while the National Public Prosecutor is the head of the National Public Prosecutor's Office and acts as the vice Public Prosecutor General.\n"}
{"id": "6460763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6460763", "title": "National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students", "text": "National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students\n\nThe National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students (NUEYS) is dedicated to improving the skills and awareness of Eritrean youth. The organization seeks to strengthen and improve the youth in all aspects on the regional, national and international levels.\n\nNUEYS has branches throughout Eritrea as well as the world to serve the Diaspora.\n\n"}
{"id": "3019735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3019735", "title": "Olympic Congress", "text": "Olympic Congress\n\nAn Olympic Congress is a large gathering of representatives from the different constituencies of the Olympic Movement, organised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC). As detailed in chapter 1, rule 4 of the Olympic Charter, the IOC President is responsible for convening a Congress, presiding over its proceedings and for determining its procedures. Olympic Congresses are not regular events in the IOC’s calendar. As the Olympic Charter states, \"The Olympic Congress gathers representatives of the constituents of the Olympic Movement, at intervals determined by the IOC\".\n\nAs the role of an Olympic Congress is consultative, all recommendations from the Congress must be submitted to the IOC Session for formal adoption. The first Olympic Congress was held in Paris, France in 1894. It was this Congress which founded and established the IOC and laid the groundwork for its statutes. The process of revival of the Olympic Games also began at the Paris Congress of 1894.\n\nAfter 1894, and until 1930, there were eight Congresses covering various issues related to the burgeoning Olympic Movement. The last Congress before the Second World War was held in Berlin in 1930. After this time, there was then an interruption of more than forty years until the 10th Olympic Congress was held in Varna, Bulgaria in 1973. Successive Congresses were held in Baden-Baden, Germany in 1981 and then in Paris, France in 1994.\n\nIn his book entitled One Hundred Years of Olympic Congresses, Norbert Müller states that Pierre de Coubertin viewed Olympic Congresses \"as intellectual guidance and justification\" and \"used them to unite modern sport, science, and the arts\". But the Congresses, especially those after the Second World War, were the catalyst for some significant developments in the Olympic Movement.\n\nAt the heart of the debate in Varna was the issue of amateurism. This topic featured in the discussions of nearly all the Congresses prior to 1930. At the Congress in Varna the IOC Eligibility Commission was tasked with examining the issue of eligibility, at that time found under Rule 26 of the Olympic Charter. The Commission’s work was brought to fruition the following year at the 75th IOC Session when delegates adopted a new eligibility rule. The new rule authorised financial and material assistance for elite sportsmen and women, but prohibited personal profit derived from a sporting activity.\n\nThe concerns of the athletes took centre place at the Congress in Baden-Baden. This was the first time that athletes played a leading role in a Congress and could express their opinions on the issues under discussion. This Congress paved the way for the creation of the IOC Athlete’s Commission, which celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2007.\n\nThe primary concern of the Congress in Paris was the protection of the environment. The delegates focused on developing measures to optimise the Olympic Movement’s contribution to preserving the environment. The 1994 Congress was the first time members of the media were invited to speak and had an entire discussion theme devoted to their concerns. It was not surprising that this Congress was later entitled \"The Congress of Unity\" as the event was a testimony to the good relationship among the various constituents of the Olympic Family.\n\nIn 2005, the IOC President Jacques Rogge called for the 13th Olympic Congress to be scheduled for 2009. On 8 February 2006, Copenhagen, Denmark was chosen as the host of the 13th Olympic Congress defeating Cairo, Egypt by 59 votes to 40. With this result, no Olympic Congress has ever taken place outside of Europe.\n\nThe nine original candidate cities were: Athens (Greece), Busan (South Korea), Cairo (Egypt), Copenhagen (Denmark), Lausanne (Switzerland), Mexico City (Mexico), Riga (Latvia), Taipei (Taiwan) and Singapore. Athens was eliminated in the first round of voting and Riga in the second. Singapore lost a tie-breaker with Taipei in round three. Taipei was eliminated in the following round and Busan in the fifth round. Mexico City dropped out of the running in January 2006, followed by Lausanne a few days before the vote.\n\nThe 13th Olympic Congress was held in Copenhagen, Denmark from 3 to 5 October 2009. The theme for the Congress in 2009 was the \"Olympic Movement in Society\". The 121st Session of the IOC was also held in Copenhagen on 2 October 2009 where the host city of the 2016 Summer Olympics was announced to be Rio de Janeiro (Brazil).\n\nThe participants for the 13th Olympic Congress will include IOC members, honorary and honor members; representatives of the International Federations, National Olympic Committees and organising committees of the Olympic Games; athletes and athlete support staff (coaches, doctors and medical staff); referees, judges and technical officials; the IOC’s Olympic partners; and the media. For the first time, members of the general public were invited to participate in the Olympic Congress. The recommendations from the 13th Olympic Congress will be forwarded to the 122nd IOC Session in Vancouver, Canada for adoption.\n\nPreparations for the 13th Olympic Congress in Copenhagen got underway in 2007. In Guatemala City on July 2007, the IOC President Jacques Rogge made an official \"call for contributions\" to all the members of the Olympic Family. He also announced that - for the first time in the history of Olympic Congresses - the general public would be invited to express their opinions on the discussion themes. In order to facilitate this collection of contributions from the Olympic Family and the general public, the IOC launched the Virtual Olympic Congress.\n\nThis website was an important component of the \"collection phase\" in the preparatory process leading to the 2009 Congress in Copenhagen. The Virtual Olympic Congress was first opened in October 2007 for contributions from members of the Olympic Family. Throughout 2008, all participants were allowed to submit a written contribution, of a thousand words or less, until the collection phase ended on 31 December 2008. A synthesis of the results will be presented to the Congress for consideration. It is hoped that this initiative will help focus the discussions in Copenhagen.\n\n"}
{"id": "38618066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38618066", "title": "Pan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Pan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nPan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PACCI) is a business support body representing national Chambers of Commerce and private businesses from across the continent. Re-incorporated in March 2010, the PACCI has the status of an international nongovernmental organization. The PACCI works with international organizations, media entities, policy-makers and through its national member chambers with African national governments, to help African businesses to foster sustainable economic growth, entrepreneurship and prosperity.\n\nThe PACCI is based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, home of the African Union and the United Nations United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. , Kebour Ghenna serves as the Executive Director.\n"}
{"id": "51410872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51410872", "title": "Pink Erotic", "text": "Pink Erotic\n\nPink Erotic is a group of subscription based cable pay-TV adult entertainment television channels (Pink Erotic 1, Pink Erotic 2, Pink Erotic 3, Pink Erotic 4, Pink Erotic 5, Pink Erotic 6, Pink Erotic 7 and Pink Erotic 8) owned by the Serbian company Pink Media Group. \n\nDue to the lower costs of issuing broadcasting licenses, specialized cable TV channels are from April 2014 officially registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Pink package (Pink paket) is available in Western Balkan countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32463965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32463965", "title": "Plovput (Serbia)", "text": "Plovput (Serbia)\n\nThe Directorate for Inland Waterways (Plovput) is a special organization of the Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible for maintenance and development of international and interstate inland waterways in the Republic of Serbia (the Danube, Sava, and Tisza rivers).\nPlovput was established in 1963, under the name Federal Public Institution for Maintenance and Development of Inland Waterways. During the last half a century, Plovput implemented over 500 projects. Today, it has 101 employees.\n\nThe responsibilities of Plovput are defined under the Law on Navigation and Ports on Inland Waterways (October 2010). The main activities of Plovput include:\n\nPlovput is also active on international level. Our experts participate at working groups of relevant international institutions in the field of inland waterways (Danube Commission, International Sava River Basin Commission, UNECE – group for inland waterway transport, PIANC, International Hydrographic Organization, GIS Forum Danube). Plovput is a partner on international projects funded by the EU, on which it cooperates with other Danube administrations, creating strategic partnerships.\n"}
{"id": "33422291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33422291", "title": "Riyad Bank", "text": "Riyad Bank\n\nRiyad Bank is one of the largest financial institutions in Saudi Arabia, ranked third in assets.It was established in 1957. The Saudi government owns 51% of the shares of the firm. The company is regulated by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. In March 2018, Riyad Bank launched contactless payment wristbands, using the Gemalto digital security solution.\n"}
{"id": "15611125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15611125", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Nagoya", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Nagoya\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Nagoya (, ) is a diocese of the Western Latin Rite of the Catholic Church that is centered in the city of Nagoya and is part of the ecclesiastical province of Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Osaka 大阪 in Japan.\n\nOn February 18, 1922, the Apostolic Prefecture of Nagoya was formed out of the Apostolic Prefecture of Niigata and Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tōkyō. Forty years later, on April 16, 1962, the apostolic prefecture was elevated to diocese.\n\nThe current bishop is Michael Gorō Matsuura who was formerly an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Osaka, and the titular bishop of Sfasferia. He was appointed by Pope Francis on Sunday, March 29, 2015, succeeding Augustinus Jun-ichi Nomura.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57396686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57396686", "title": "Sidi Ameur District", "text": "Sidi Ameur District\n\nSidi Ameur district is an Algerian administrative district in the M'Sila province. Its capital is town of Sidi Ameur.\n\nThe district is composed of two communes.\n"}
{"id": "44384287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44384287", "title": "Sputnik (news agency)", "text": "Sputnik (news agency)\n\nSputnik (; formerly The Voice of Russia and RIA Novosti) is a news agency, news website platform and radio broadcast service established by the Russian government-owned news agency Rossiya Segodnya. Headquartered in Moscow, Sputnik has regional editorial offices in Washington, Cairo, Beijing, Singapore, London and Edinburgh. Sputnik focuses on global politics and economics and is geared towards a non-Russian audience. According to \"The New York Times\", Sputnik engages in bias and disinformation, and has widely been described as a Russian propaganda outlet.\n\nSputnik currently operates news websites, featuring reporting and commentary, in over 30 languages including English, Spanish, Polish, Serbian, and several others. The websites also house over 800 hours of radio broadcasting material each day and its newswire service runs around the clock.\n\nRIA Novosti was Russia's international news agency until 2013, and it continues to be the name of a state-operated domestic Russian-language news agency. On December 9, 2013, RIA Novosti was reorganized into a new Russian international news agency Rossiya Segodnya. Dmitry Kiselev, an anchorman of the Russia-1 channel was appointed to be the first president of the new agency.\n\nSputnik was launched on 10 November 2014 by Rossiya Segodnya, an agency owned and operated by the Russian government, which was created by an Executive Order of the President of Russia on December 9, 2013. Sputnik replaces the RIA Novosti news agency and Voice of Russia (which was the Russian government's international radio broadcasting service from 1993 until November 9, 2014) on an international stage. Within Russia itself, however, Rossiya Segodnya continues to operate its Russian language news service under the name RIA Novosti. According to its chief Dmitry Kiselyov, Sputnik was intended to \"provide alternative interpretations that are, undoubtedly, in demand around the world\".\n\nIn 2015, Sputnik announced their intention to locate the agency's new UK Radio studio in Scotland's capital Edinburgh. The agency subsequently established its radio studio and bureau in the city and launched its current affairs and news programme, \"World in Focus\", at a press conference on August 10, 2016.\n\nIn March 2016, access to Sputnik's online content was blocked by Turkish authorities, as well as denying the Turkish bureau chief Tural Kerimov access to the country. The move is thought to have been in response to comments by the Russian leadership that were critical of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan regarding the Turkish administration's record on human rights and freedom of speech. The website was subsequently unblocked later that same year.\n\n\"Radio Sputnik\" is the audio service of the Sputnik platform operating in 30 languages \"for a total of over 800 hours a day, covering over 130 cities and 34 countries on \"FM, DAB/DAB+ (Digital Radio Broadcasting), HD Radio, as well as mobile phones and the Internet.\" It is also available on various satellite transponders, including a 24 hour English service audible in North America via the Galaxy-19 satellite. Notable presenters on Radio Sputnik include Max Keiser and Stacy Herbert, who present the weekly economics based talk show \"Double Down\"; Eugene Puryear, who hosts the talk show \"By Any Means Necessary\"; and liberal talk radio host Thom Hartmann, whose \"Thom Hartmann Program\" is syndicated daily on Sputnik.\n\nRegarding future plans for the U.S. broadcast market, the editor-in-chief of \"Sputnik U.S.\" stated in a June 2017 interview that there are no near-term plans for expansion into new markets beyond Washington, DC. This came on the heels of a late June 2017 announcement that Radio Sputnik would sublease Reston, Virginia-licensed translator station \"W288BS\" (105.5 FM) from Reston Translator, LLC, which transmits from the WIAD tower in Bethesda, Maryland, and begin broadcasting Sputnik on that signal; the station's reach includes DC proper and the western suburbs in Northern Virginia. Since November 2017, Radio Sputnik is also carried on AM in Washington on WZHF 1390 AM. The American owners of the stations were required to register as a foreign agent by the United States Department of Justice.\n\nSputnik cannot own an American radio station outright due to Federal Communications Commission rules against foreign ownership of broadcast assets, as enacted in the Communications Act of 1934. Prior to July 1, 2017, Radio Sputnik (initially as its predecessor) had broadcast in the Washington DC area on WTOP-HD2 (103.5-HD2) since June 2013 (if not earlier). W288BS translates Urban One's WKYS (93.9)'s digital HD3 signal for analog broadcasting.\n\nA report in \"The New York Times\" addressed Sputnik and RT as \"powerful information weapons\". \"Foreign Policy\" magazine has described Sputnik as a slick and internet-savvy outlet of Kremlin propaganda, which \"remixes President Vladimir Putin's brand of revanchist nationalism for an international audience... beating a predictable drum of anti-Western rhetoric\". Such views were also voiced by the Washington DC-based think tank Center for European Policy Analysis (CEPA), which argues that Sputnik spreads biased information. In the opinion of CEPA, Sputnik invites only a select group of commenting politicians, especially those known for their pro-Russian views. According to Kevin Rothrock, Russia editor for Global Voices, Sputnik \"acts as a spoiler to try and disrupt or blur information unfriendly to Russia, such as Russian troops' alleged involvement in the war in Ukraine\". Historical comparisons have been made to \"Pravda\", once the official newspaper of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in particular Sputnik's apologia for Joseph Stalin and denial of the 1932–1933 famine in Ukraine known as the Holodomor.\n\nGerman journalist and author Michael Thumann has described Sputnik as being part of what he calls Russia's \"digital information war against the West\". Alexander Podrabinek, a Russian journalist who works for Radio France Internationale (part of French Government's France Médias Monde) and the Radio Liberty (supervised by Broadcasting Board of Governors, an Independent agency of the U.S. Federal government) has accused Sputnik of disseminating Russian state propaganda abroad. In a vote urging for the European Union to \"respond to information warfare by Russia\", the European Parliament accused broadcasting channels Sputnik and RT of \"information warfare\", and placed Russian media organisations along terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State. The federal agency of \"Rossotrudnichestvo\" and the Russkiy Mir Foundation were also seen as tools for Russian propaganda in this report. According to a study by Masaryk University, Sputnik is one of the major sources of Russian propaganda in the Czech Republic.\n\nIn October 2016, Sputnik misreported the contents of WikiLeaks e-mails in a story that attacked Hillary Clinton. Quotes from an article produced by Kurt Eichenwald were incorrectly attributed to Sidney Blumenthal (due to him quoting Eichenwald in an email) and taken out of context. Sputnik later took down the article. The false story was recited by the then-Republican nominee for president Donald Trump at one of his rallies, leading Eichenwald to accuse Trump of rebranding Russian propaganda for his own advantage. However, this has been disputed by the \"Washington Post\", stating that \"It's not that Trump is a Putin marionette, it's that he seems to have pulled bad information off a questionable website and presented it on live television to an audience of thousands without skepticism. This is an indictment of his judgment, not of his loyalty.\" Jon Passanto of BuzzFeed News notes that the language used by Trump is more similar to a viral tweet from Twitter user @republic2016, which went out 4 hours before the Sputnik article appeared.\n\nA January 2017 report by The Swedish Institute of International Affairs found that Swedish language version of Sputnik News was one of the main tools by which the Russian government spread false information in Sweden. According to the report, Sputnik News focused on highly negative stories about NATO and the EU, in particular.\n\nIn April 2017, Emmanuel Macron's campaign team banned both RT and Sputnik from campaign events. A Macron spokesperson said the two outlets showed a \"systematic desire to issue fake news and false information\".\n\nOn May 26, 2017, journalist Andrew Feinberg, who had been Sputnik's White House Correspondent, announced on Twitter that he would no longer be reporting for the agency, citing pressure from Sputnik's Russian editors to write stories and ask questions at the White House that implied that murdered Democratic National Committee staffer Seth Rich was killed in retaliation for leaking documents to WikiLeaks despite the lack of any evidence to support such a conclusion. In an interview with CNN's Brian Stelter, Feinberg also noted that Sputnik management had insisted on approving or dictating questions he would ask at White House press briefings, and wanted him to ask questions that implied that the April 2017 Sarin gas attack in Syria was a hoax, and that Sputnik tried to prevent reporters from having bylines to avoid accountability for falsehoods in stories.\n\nIn October 2017, Twitter banned both RT and Sputnik from advertising on their social networking service amid accusations of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections, prompting a stern response from the Russian foreign ministry. It said the ban was a “gross violation” by the United States of the guarantees of free speech.“Retaliatory measures, naturally, will follow,” ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. In November, Alphabet chairman Eric Schmidt announced that Google will be \"deranking\" stories from RT and Sputnik in response to allegations about election meddling by President Putin's government, provoking an angry response from both publications.\n\n\"Forbes\" reported that Sputnik International reported fake news and fabricated statements by White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest during the 2016 US presidential election. Sputnik falsely reported on December 7, 2016 that Earnest stated sanctions for Russia were on the table related to Syria, falsely quoting Earnest as saying: \"There are a number of things that are to be considered, including some of the financial sanctions that the United States can administer in coordination with our allies. I would definitely not rule that out.\" \"Forbes\" analyzed Earnest's White House press briefing from that week, and found the word \"sanctions\" was never used by the Press Secretary. Russia was discussed in eight instances during the press conference, but never about sanctions. The press conference focused solely on Russian air raids in Syria towards rebels fighting President of Syria Bashar al-Assad in Aleppo.\n\nSputnik News published articles that promoted the conspiracy theories about the murder of Seth Rich. According to \"The Washington Post\", \"many Sputnik hosts profess skepticism that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election,\" in contradiction to the assessment of the US intelligence community.\n\nLee Stranahan, known for conspiratorial articles about the yogurt producer Chobani, was hired by Sputnik News after his departure from Breitbart News. Stranahan had claimed that Breitbart had been insufficiently supportive of his investigations and theories which without any evidence asserted that Chobani was at the center of a grand conspiracy to replace American workers with Syrian refugees, and conceal sexual assaults and outbreaks of tuberculosis. Stranahan also said that Breitbart had prevented him from covering the Trump White House. According to \"The Washington Post\", Stranahan is \"Sputnik’s most visible Trump supporter\".\n\nIn 2018, the agency shut down its website in the Kurdish language without mentioning any particular reason for the decision. Former employees of Sputnik said that the news agency decided to shut it down at Turkey’s request.\n\nAs a news agency, Sputnik maintains six news wires:\n\nApart from wire services, Sputnik also operates online news in following languages:\n\nSputnik previously operated the following editions, which were later shut down:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23784628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23784628", "title": "Tivù Sat", "text": "Tivù Sat\n\ntivùsat is a free-to-air/free-to-view digital satellite television platform, launched by the joint venture between RAI, Mediaset and Telecom Italia Media, and serving Italy, Vatican City and San Marino.\n\nThe service has been marketed since 31 July 2009 and offers a satellite alternative for many of those unable to receive the digital terrestrial television in Italy. Tivù Sat comprises free-to-air and free-to-view channels available on national television networks, and can be watched using a subscription card for Italian users purchasing a compatible receiver with Nagravision scrambling system.\n\n"}
{"id": "45390351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45390351", "title": "Volcan Club de Moroni", "text": "Volcan Club de Moroni\n\nVolcan Club de Moroni is a football club from the Comoros based in Moroni.\n\n\n\n"}
