{"id": "53137111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53137111", "title": "19th National Geographic Bee", "text": "19th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 19th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 23, 2007, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Caitlin Snaring, a homeschooled student from Redmond, Washington, who won a $25,000 college scholarship and lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society. The 2nd-place winner, Suneil Iyer of Kansas, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Mark Arildsen of Tennessee, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211853", "title": "A229 road", "text": "A229 road\n\nThe A229 is a major road running north-south through Kent from Rochester to Hawkhurst via Maidstone. It is a former Roman road that ran from Rochester to Hastings.\n\nThe road is well-known for Blue Bell Hill, which connects Rochester to Maidstone through the North Downs, and links the M2 and M20 motorways. A popular ghost story documents a driver picking up a phantom female hitch-hiker on the A229 outside the Lower Bell pub, who subsequently disappears inside the driver's car.\n\nThe A229 is about long. The road passes through little in the way of built-up areas aside from the Medway Towns and Maidstone. It is principally a link between these two areas and the south coast around Hastings.\n\nThe road begins in the Medway town of Rochester at the foot of Star Hill forming a junction with the A2. It then climbs up through the built-up area of Chatham, passing Troy Town and Rochester Airport and the M2 motorway before descending the slope of the North Downs at Blue Bell Hill. Below the road as it descends is the tunnel carrying High Speed 1. Once into the Medway Valley, there is a junction with the M20 motorway, and it follows the River Medway into Maidstone town centre. There are junctions with several main roads here, including the A26 and A249.\n\nBeyond Maidstone, the road climbs up Greensand Ridge to Loose, built on the ridge's southern slope, before running through the valley of the River Beult to Staplehurst. Beyond this, it follows the Weald through Cranbrook and climbs another hill to Hawkhurst. The road ends on the A21 London – Hastings Road near Hurst Green.\n\nThe A229 through Maidstone is a major bottleneck on the route, with long daily morning and evening queues entering both sides of the town.\n\nIn 2006, the road was set up with the then largest vehicle checkpoint campaign in Kent, in order to catch drug dealers and benefit fraudsters. Twenty-seven vehicles were apprehended, but there were no arrests.\n\nThe road largely follows the route of Roman Road No. 13, as described by Ivan Margary, which ran from Rochester to Hastings. It was turnpiked between Rochester and Maidstone in 1728, then to Cranbrook in 1760.\n\nThe A229 number was assigned in 1923, following the turnpike road. The original route through Maidstone ran along Sandling Road and Week Street; the diversion along the riverside opened in 1978. It runs partially on the site of Fremlin's Brewery, whose production site in Maidstone had then recently closed. The southern extent of the road from Hawkhurst to Sedlescombe was downgraded to a B-road in the 1990s.\n\nOn 19 November 1965, three women were severely injured in a road accident at Blue Bell Hill on the A229 when their Ford Cortina collided with a Jaguar. One of the women, 22-year old Susan Browne from Gillingham, who was due to wed RAF technician Brian Wetton, died five days later at West Kent Hospital in Maidstone; the two other females, Judith Lingham and Patricia Ferguson, died soon after the accident.\n\nSince then, there have been several reports of ghosts relating to the accident. The basic story is that a driver passing the Lower Bell pub on the A229 spots a lone female dressed in white at the side of the road. He offers her a lift, and she gives him an address. Some time later, the driver looks in the rear view mirror to discover she has disappeared. Other variations of the story report a small purse or handbag left behind, or that when the driver reaches the intended address, he is informed by a family member there that his passenger died several years previously.\n\nThe legend has now become one of the best-known ghost stories involving phantom hitch-hiking in the United Kingdom, and the Blue Bell Hill Road is reported to be one of the most haunted roads in the country. On 13 July 1974, local bricklayer Maurice Goodenough ran into Rochester Police Station and reported he had run over a girl aged around 10 on Blue Bell Hill, who suffered several cuts, and had left her at the roadside wrapped in a blanket. When the police returned to the scene, the girl had disappeared, and despite an extensive radius search of the area, the girl was never found. A further incident of the lone female variant of the story was reported in 1992. Other variations are drivers reporting to have driven straight through a girl in the middle of the road, without any apparent injury.\n\nIn 2014, a local group wrote and directed the short film, \"The Ghost of Blue Bell Hill\", which covers the numerous ghost stories relating to the road.\n\n"}
{"id": "3809930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3809930", "title": "Aleutian Current", "text": "Aleutian Current\n\nThe Aleutian Current is also called the \"Subarctic Current\". An eastward flowing ocean current which lies north of the North Pacific Current; it is the northern branch of the Kuroshio Current which moves northeast then east between 40° N and 50° N. As it approaches the coast of North America it divides to form the northward-flowing Alaska Current and the southward-flowing California Current .\n\n"}
{"id": "48717779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48717779", "title": "Amanah (administrative subdivision)", "text": "Amanah (administrative subdivision)\n\nAmanah () is an Arabic term used for mayoralty or municipality.\n\nIn some Arabic countries, the Amanah is the municipality of the capital.\n\n"}
{"id": "5482879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5482879", "title": "Block (district subdivision)", "text": "Block (district subdivision)\n\nA block is an administrative division of some South Asian countries.\n\nIn Bhutan, a block is called a gewog. It is essentially for oil a group of villages. Gewogs are official administrative units of Bhutan. The country is composed of 205 gewogs. \n\nEach gewog is headed by a \"gup\" or headman.\n\nBlock is a district sub-division for the purpose of Rural development department and Panchayati raj institutes. Cities have similar arrangements under the Urban Development department. Tehsils (also called Taluk) are common across urban and rural areas for the administration of land and revenue department to keep tract of land ownership and levy the land tax.\n\nFor planning purpose district is divided into four levels \nA taluk may consist of one or more number of blocks. Blocks are normally Planning & Development units of district in addition to taluks. Block would represent a compact area for which effective plans will prepared & implemented through Village Panchayats.\n\nFor example, Muzaffarnagar District of Uttar Pradesh has 9 blocks namely:\n\nThe Block Development Officer is the official in charge of the block. Block Development Officers monitor the implementation of all programs related to planning and development of the blocks. Coordination of development and implementation of plans in all blocks of district is provided by a Chief Development Officer (CDO).\nBDO office is the main operation wing of the government for the development administration as well as regulatory administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "139176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=139176", "title": "City-state", "text": "City-state\n\nA city-state is a sovereign state, also described as a type of small independent country, that usually consists of a single city and its dependent territories. Historically, this included cities such as Rome, Athens, Carthage, and the Italian city-states during the Renaissance. As of 2018, only a handful of sovereign city-states exist, with some disagreement as to which are city-states. A great deal of consensus exists that the term properly applies currently to Singapore, Monaco, and Vatican City. City states are also sometimes called micro-states which however also includes other configurations of very small countries.\n\nA number of other small states share similar characteristics, and therefore are sometimes also cited as modern city-states—namely, Qatar, Brunei, Kuwait, Bahrain, and Malta, which each have an urban center comprising a significant proportion of the population, though all have several distinct settlements and a designated or \"de facto\" capital city. Occasionally, other small states with high population densities, such as San Marino, are also cited, despite lacking a large urban centre characteristic of traditional city-states.\n\nSeveral non-sovereign cities enjoy a high degree of autonomy, and are sometimes considered city-states. Hong Kong and Macau, along with independent members of the United Arab Emirates, most notably Dubai and Abu Dhabi, are often cited as such.\n\nHistorical city-states included Sumerian cities such as Uruk and Ur; Ancient Egyptian city-states, such as Thebes and Memphis; the Phoenician cities (such as Tyre and Sidon); the five Philistine city-states; the Berber city-states of the Garamantes; the city-states of ancient Greece (the poleis such as Athens, Sparta, Thebes, and Corinth); the Roman Republic (which grew from a city-state into a great power); the Mayan and other cultures of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica (including cities such as Chichen Itza, Tikal, Copán and Monte Albán); the central Asian cities along the Silk Road; the city-states of the Swahili coast; Venice; Ragusa; states of the medieval Russian lands such as Novgorod and Pskov; and many others. Danish historian Poul Holm has classed the Viking colonial cities in medieval Ireland, most importantly Dublin, as city-states.\n\nIn Cyprus, the Phoenician settlement of Kition (in present-day Larnaca) was a city-state that existed from around 800 BC until the end of the 4th century BC.\n\nSome of the most well-known examples of city-state culture in human history are the ancient Greek city-states and the merchant city-states of Renaissance Italy, which organised themselves as small independent centers. The success of small regional units coexisting as autonomous actors in loose geographical and cultural unity, as in Italy and Greece, often prevented their amalgamation into larger national units. However, such small political entities often survived only for short periods because they lacked the resources to defend themselves against incursions by larger states. Thus they inevitably gave way to larger organisations of society, including the empire and the nation-state.\n\nIn the history of mainland Southeast Asia, aristocratic groups, Buddhist leaders, and others organized settlements into autonomous or semi-autonomous city-states. These were referred to as \"mueang\", and were usually related in a tributary relationship now described as mandala or as \"over-lapping sovereignty\", in which smaller city-states paid tribute to larger ones that paid tribute to still larger ones—until reaching the apex in cities like Ayutthaya, Bagan, Bangkok and others that served as centers of Southeast Asian royalty. The system existed until the 19th century, when colonization by European powers occurred. Siam, a regional power at the time, needed to define their territories for negotiation with the European powers so the Siamese government established a nation-state system, incorporated their tributary cities (Lan Xang, Cambodia and some Malay cities) into their territory and abolished the mueang and the tributary system.\n\nIn early Philippine history, the Barangay was a complex sociopolitical unit which scholars have historically considered the dominant organizational pattern among the various peoples of the Philippine archipelago. These sociopolitical units were sometimes also referred to as Barangay states, but are more properly referred to using the technical term \"polity, so they are usually simply called \"barangays.\" Evidence suggests a considerable degree of independence as \"city states\" ruled by Datu's, Rajah\"s and Sultan's. Early chroniclers record that the name evolved from the term \"balangay\", which refers to a plank boat widely used by various cultures of the Philippine archipelago prior to the arrival of European colonizers.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire the Free Imperial Cities enjoyed considerable autonomy, buttressed legally by international law following the Peace of Westphalia (1648). Some, like the three Hanseatic cities of Bremen, Hamburg and Lübeck, pooled their economic relations with foreign powers and were able to wield considerable diplomatic clout. The cities often made protective alliances with other cities or neighbour regions, including the Hanseatic League, the Swabian League of Cities, the Décapole, or the Old Swiss Confederacy. The Swiss Cantons of Zürich, Bern, Lucerne, Fribourg, Solothurn, Basel, Schaffhausen, and Geneva originated as city-states.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, citiesthen members of different confederaciesofficially became sovereign city-states such as the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen (1806–11 and again 1813–71), the Free City of Frankfurt upon Main (1815–66), the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg (1806–11 and again 1814–71), the Free and Hanseatic City of Lübeck (1806–11 and again 1813–71), and the Free City of Kraków (1815–1846). Under Habsburg rule the city of Fiume had the status of a corpus separatum, which – while falling short of an independent sovereignty – had many attributes of a city state.\n\nA later city-state, though lacking sovereignty, was West Berlin (1948–1990), being a state legally not belonging to any other state, but ruled by the Western Allies. They allowednotwithstanding their overlordship as occupant powersits internal organisation as one state simultaneously being a city, officially called Berlin (West). Though West Berlin maintained close ties to the West German Federal Republic of Germany, it was legally never part of it.\n\n\"Examples: Republic of Venice, Republic of Genoa, Republic of Amalfi, Republic of Florence, Duchy of Milan, Papal States\"\n\nThe Free City of Danzig was a semi-autonomous city-state that existed between 1920 and 1939, consisting of the Baltic Sea port of Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland) and nearly 200 towns in the surrounding areas. It was created on 15 November 1920 under the terms of Article 100 (Section XI of Part III) of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles after the end of World War I.\n\nAfter a prolonged period where the city of Fiume enjoyed considerable autonomy under Habsburg rule (see Corpus separatum (Fiume), The Free State of Fiume was proclaimed as a fully independent free state which existed between 1920 and 1924. Its territory of 28 km (11 sq mi) comprised the city of Fiume (now in Croatia and, since the end of World War II, known as Rijeka) and rural areas to its north, with a corridor to its west connecting it to Italy.\n\nThe Shanghai International Settlement (1845–1943) was an international zone with its own legal system, postal service, and currency.\n\nThe international zone within the city of Tangier, in North Africa was approximately 373 km (144 sq mi). It was at first under the joint administration of France, Spain, and the United Kingdom, plus later Portugal, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States. The international zone was initially attached to Morocco. It then became a French-Spanish protectorate from 1923 until the 29 of October 1956 when it was reintegrated into the state of Morocco.\n\nThe Klaipėda Region or Memel Territory was defined by the Treaty of Versailles in 1920 when it was put under the administration of the Council of Ambassadors. The Memel Territory was to remain under the control of the League of Nations until a future day when the people of the region would be allowed to vote on whether the land would return to Germany or not. The then predominantly ethnic German Memel Territory (Prussian Lithuanians and Memellanders constituted the other ethnic groups), situated between the river and the town of that name, was occupied by Lithuania in the Klaipėda Revolt of 1923.\n\nThe Free Territory of Trieste was an independent territory situated in Central Europe between northern Italy and Yugoslavia, facing the north part of the Adriatic Sea, under direct responsibility of the United Nations Security Council in the aftermath of World War II, from 1947 to 1954. The UN attempted to make the Free Territory of Trieste into a city state, but it never gained real independence and in 1954 its territory was divided between Italy and Yugoslavia.\n\nUnder the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine of 1947, Mandatory Palestine was to be partitioned into three states: a Jewish state of Israel, an Arab state of Palestine, and a \"corpus separatum\" (Latin for \"separated body\") consisting of a Jerusalem city-state under the control of United Nations Trusteeship Council. Although the plan had some international support and the UN accepted this proposal (and still officially holds the stance that Jerusalem should be held under this regime), implementation of the plan failed as the 1948 Palestine war broke out with the 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine, ultimately resulting in Jerusalem being split into West Jerusalem and East Jerusalem. Israel would eventually gain control of East Jerusalem in the Six-Day War in 1967.\n\nThe Principality of Monaco is an independent city-state. Monaco-Ville (the ancient fortified city) and Monaco's well-known area Monte Carlo are districts of a continuous urban zone, not distinct cities, though they were three separate municipalities (\"communes\") until 1917. The Principality of Monaco and the city of Monaco (each having specific powers) govern the same territory. Though they maintain a small military they would still have to rely on France, for defence in the face of an aggressive world power.\n\nSingapore is an island city-state in Southeast Asia. About 5.2 million people live and work within , making Singapore the 2nd-most-densely populated country in the world after Monaco, another city-state. Singapore was part of Malaysia before it was expelled from the federation in 1965, becoming an independent republic, a city and a sovereign country. \"The Economist\" refers to the nation as the \"world's only fully functioning city-state\". In particular, it has its own currency and a full armed forces for deterrence to safeguard the nation's sovereignty against potential aggressors.\n\nUntil September 1870, the city of Rome had been controlled by the pope as part of his Papal States. When King Victor Emmanuel II seized the city in 1870, Pope Pius IX refused to recognize the newly formed Kingdom of Italy.\n\nBecause he could not travel without effectively acknowledging the authority of the king, Pius IX and his successors each claimed to be a \"Prisoner in the Vatican\", unable to leave the papal enclave once they had ascended the papal thrones.\n\nThe impasse was resolved in 1929 by the Lateran Treaties negotiated by the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini between King Victor Emmanuel III and Pope Pius XI. Under this treaty, the Vatican was recognized as an independent state, with the Pope as its head. The Vatican City State has its own citizenship, diplomatic corps, flag, and postage stamps. With a population of less than 1,000 (mostly clergymen), it is by far the smallest sovereign country in the world.\n\nSome cities or urban areas, while not sovereign states, may nevertheless enjoy such a high degree of autonomy that they function as \"city-states\" within the context of the sovereign state to which they belong. Historian Mogens Herman Hansen describes this aspect of self-government as: \"The city-state is a self-governing, but not necessarily independent political unit.\"\n\nTwo cities in Germany, namely Berlin and Hamburg, are considered city-states (German: \"Stadtstaaten\"). Additionally, the state of Bremen is often called a city-state although it consists of the two cities of Bremen and Bremerhaven, which are separated by the state of Lower Saxony. Together with thirteen area states (German: \"Flächenländer\") they form the sixteen federal states of Germany.\n\nGenerally, the city-states have no other rights or duties than the other states. Through the financial redistribution system of Equalization Payments in Germany (German: \"Länderfinanzausgleich\"), they do receive more money because of their demographic characteristics. The city-states are most distinctive due to the names of their state organs: their governments are called Senate, the prime ministers 'mayor' (Governing Mayor in Berlin and First Mayor in Hamburg) or President of the Senate (in Bremen) and also the expressions for their state parliaments differ from the other states.\n\nIn the 18th century many German cities were free imperial cities (German: \"Reichsstädte\"), without a principality between them and the imperial level. After the Napoleonic era, in 1815, four were still city-states: Hamburg, Bremen and Lübeck in Northern Germany, and Frankfurt where the Federal Convention was located. Frankfurt was incorporated by Prussia in 1866, and Lübeck became a part of Prussia during the national socialist regime in 1937 (Greater Hamburg Law). After 1945, Berlin was a divided city, and the Western part became a German quasi-state under (Western) Allied supervision. Since 1990/1991, the reunited Berlin is an ordinary German state among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58221111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58221111", "title": "Clanius", "text": "Clanius\n\nClanius (also Glanis or Clanis; ) is a river of Campania noted in antiquity. It rises in the Apennines near Abella, and traverses the whole plain of Campania, falling into the sea about south of the Vulturnus (modern \"Volturno\"). In the early part of its course it flowed by the town of Acerrae, which frequently suffered severely from the ravages of its waters during floods. At other times their stagnation rendered the country unhealthy; hence in the nineteenth century the stream was diverted into a canal or artificial course, called \"il regio Lagno\", and sometimes by corruption \"l'Agno\". This is divided into two streams near its mouth, the one of which flows direct into the sea, and is known as \"Foce dei Lagni\", the other takes a more southerly direction, and joins, or rather forms, a marshy lake called the \"Lago di Patria\" (the ancient Literna Palus), the outlet of which into the sea, about miles south of the former branch, called the F\"oce di Patria\". This is evidently the same which was known in ancient times as the river \"Liternus ternus\", and appears to have been then the principal, if not the only outlet of the Clanius, as Strabo, who describes the coast of Campania minutely, does not notice the latter river. \n"}
{"id": "39270858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39270858", "title": "Climate of Valencia", "text": "Climate of Valencia\n\nValencia and its metropolitan area have a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Csa\") with very mild winters and long warm to hot summers. According to Troll-Paffen climate classification, Valencia has a \"warm-temperate subtropical\" climate (\"Warmgemäßigt-subtropisches Zonenklima\") and according to Siegmund/Frankenberg climate classification, Valencia has subtropical climate.\n\nIts average annual temperature is during the day and at night. In the coldest month – January, typically the temperature ranges from during the day and at night. In the warmest month – August, the typically temperature ranges from during the day and about at night. Large fluctuations in temperature are rare.\n\nWinters in Valencia are very mild. December, January and February are the coldest months, with average temperatures around during the day and at night. From a few to a dozen days in the winter, the temperature exceeds . Because of the very mild temperatures in winter, most of the vegetation remains green throughout the year.\n\nMarch is a transitional month, the temperature often exceeding , with average temperature of around during the day and at night.\n\nSummers in Valencia area are long and warm to hot (in the middle of summer). Generally the summer season lasts about eight months, from April to November. Regular temperatures above begin as early as April, although in this month the sea temperature is still cool: about . The summer season ends in November, in this month sometimes occurring days with temperatures below . The sea temperature in November remains mild - about .\n\nJuly and August are the warmest months, with average temperatures around during the day and at night. In June and September the average temperature is around during the day and at night. In May and October the average temperature is around during the day and at night and in April and November the average temperature is around during the day and at night.\n\nSunshine duration is 2,660 hours per year, from 150 - average about 5 hours of sunshine a day in December to 314 - average above 10 hours of sunshine a day in July. This is a bit above average for the southern half of Europe because in this part of the continent, sunshine duration varies from about 2,000 to about 3,000 hours per year. However, this is a 70% larger value than in the northern half of Europe, where sunshine duration is around 1500 hours per year. In winter Valencia has about three times more sun duration than in the northern half of Europe.\n\nValencia has on average only 44 precipitation days a year, averaging several rainy days per month (≥ 1 mm), ranging from 1 in July to 6 in October. The average annual precipitation is less than 454 mm (17.87 inches), ranging from 9 mm (0.35 inch) in July to 74 mm (2.91 inch) in October.\n\nAverage relative humidity is 65%, ranging from 60% in April to 68% in August.\n\nValencia enjoys one of the most optimal number of hours of daylight in Europe. Days in winter are not as short as in the northern part of the continent. The average hours of daylight in December, January and February is 10 hours (for comparison: London or Moscow or Warsaw - about 8 hours).\n\nThe highest temperature ever recorded during the day in the city centre is on 27 August 2010. On May 14th, 2015 an all-time high of 43º C was again recorded. In the month of August 2003, the average reported daytime maximum temperature was a record (similar to a typical temperature in August of tropical Miami). The coldest temperature ever recorded was on the night of 11 February 1956. Generally, February 1956 was the coldest month in the history of the city (since temperature recording).\n\nThe average annual temperature of the sea is about . In February, the average sea temperature is . In August, the average sea temperature is . From June to October, average temperature of sea exceed .\n\nValencia has a similar latitude to Madrid. However, the climate of these Spanish cities is very different, as Valencia is located at the seaside; Madrid is located in the approximate middle of the inland plateau. Valencia has much warmer winters (data from January, the coldest month): \nand also Valencia has longer summers and milder temperatures in the middle of summer during the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "38241232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38241232", "title": "Eastern Orthodoxy in Europe", "text": "Eastern Orthodoxy in Europe\n\nThe Eastern Orthodoxy in Europe constitutes the second largest Christian denomination. European Eastern Orthodox Christians are predominantly present in Eastern and Southeastern Europe, and they are also significantly represented in diaspora throughout the Continent. The term Eastern Orthodox Europe is informally used to describe the predominantly Eastern Orthodox countries of Eastern Europe as well as Greece and Cyprus and one Caucasus state - Georgia. These include Belarus, Bulgaria, the Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, and Ukraine.\n\nAlmost all of Eastern Orthodox Europe became part of communist states after World War II.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41448263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41448263", "title": "Gangohi", "text": "Gangohi\n\nGangohi (, \"Gangohī\") is a nisbat or surname derived from the name of the city of Gangoh in India. The Arabic form is al-Kankuhi (, \"al-Kankūhī\") or al-Janjuhi (, \"al-Janjūhī\").\n\n"}
{"id": "28878684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28878684", "title": "Geography of Poland", "text": "Geography of Poland\n\nPoland is a country in Central Europe with an area of 312,679 square kilometres (120,726 sq. mi.), and mostly temperate climate. Generally speaking, Poland is an almost unbroken plain reaching from the Baltic Sea in the north, to the Carpathian Mountains in the south. Within that plain, terrain variations run in bands east to west. \nThe Baltic coast has two natural harbors, the larger one in the Gdańsk-Gdynia region, and a smaller one near Szczecin in the far northwest. The northeastern region, also known as the Masurian Lake District with more than 2,000 lakes, is densely wooded and sparsely populated. To the south of the lake district, and across central Poland a vast region of plains extends all the way to the Sudetes on the Czech and Slovak borders southwest, and to the Carpathians on the Czech, Slovak and Ukrainian borders southeast. The central lowlands had been formed by glacial erosion in the Pleistocene ice age. The neighboring countries are Germany to the west, the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south, Ukraine and Belarus to the east, and Lithuania and the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad to the northeast.\n\nThe country extends 876 kilometers from north to south and 689 kilometers from east to west, at an area of 312,679 square kilometers including inland waters. The average elevation is 173 meters, and only 3% of Polish territory, along the southern border, is higher than 500 meters. The highest elevation is Mount Rysy, which rises 2,499 meters in the Tatra Range of the Carpathian Mountains, 95 kilometers south of Kraków. About 63 square kilometers along the Gulf of Gdańsk are below sea level.\n\nPoland is traditionally divided into five topographic zones from north to south.\n\nThe largest, the central lowlands or \"Polish Plain\" ( or \"Nizina Polska\"), is narrow in the west, then expands to the north and south as it extends eastward. Along the eastern border, this zone reaches from the far northeast to within 200 kilometers of the southern border. The terrain in the central lowlands is quite flat, and earlier glacial lakes have been filled by sediment. The region is cut by several major rivers, including the Oder (Odra), which defines the Silesian Lowlands in the southwest, and the Vistula (Wisla), which defines the lowland areas of east-central Poland.\n\nTo the south of the lowlands are the lesser Poland uplands, a belt varying in width from 90 to 200 kilometers, formed by the gently sloping foothills of the Sudeten and Carpathian mountain ranges and the uplands that connect the ranges in southcentral Poland. The topography of this region is divided transversely into higher and lower elevations, reflecting its underlying geological structure. In the western section, the Silesia-Kraków Upthrust contains rich coal deposits.\nThe third topographic area is located on either side of Poland's southern border and is formed by the Sudeten and Carpathian ranges. Within Poland, neither of these ranges is forbidding enough to prevent substantial habitation; the Carpathians are especially densely populated. The rugged form of the Sudeten range derives from the geological shifts that formed the later Carpathian uplift. The highest elevation in the Sudeten is Śnieżka (1,602 meters) in the Karkonosze Mountains. The Carpathians in Poland, formed as a discrete topographical unit in the relatively recent Tertiary Era, are the highest mountains in the country. They are the northernmost edge of a much larger range that extends into the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ukraine, Hungary, and Romania. Within Poland the range includes two major basins, the Oświęcim and Sandomierz, which are rich in several minerals and natural gas.\n\nTo the north of the central lowlands, the lake region includes primeval forests - one of the last remaining in Europe and much of Poland's shrinking unspoiled natural habitat. Glacial action in this region formed lakes and low hills in the otherwise flat terrain adjacent to Lithuania and the Baltic Sea. Small lakes dot the entire northern half of Poland, and the glacial formations that characterize the lake region extend as much as 200 kilometers inland in western Poland. Wide river valleys divide the lake region into three parts. In the northwest, Pomerania is located south of the Baltic coastal region and north of the Warta and Noteć rivers. Masuria occupies the remainder of northern Poland and features a string of larger lakes. Most of Poland's 9,300 lakes that are more than 10,000 square metres in area are located in the northern part of the lake region, where they occupy about 10% of the surface area.\n\nThe Baltic coastal plains are a low-lying region formed of sediments deposited by the sea. The coastline was shaped by the action of the rising sea after the Scandinavian ice sheet retreated. The two major inlets in the smooth coast are the Pomeranian Bay on the German border in the far northwest and the Gulf of Gdańsk in the east. The Oder River empties into the former, and the Vistula forms a large delta at the head of the latter. Sandbars with large dunes form lagoons and coastal lakes along much of the coast.\n\nThe geological structure of Poland has been shaped by the continental collision of Europe and Africa over the past 60 million years on the one hand and the other by the Quaternary glaciations of northern Europe. Both processes shaped the Sudetes and the Carpathian Mountains. The moraine landscape of northern Poland contains soils made up mostly of sand or loam, while the ice age river valleys of the south often contain loess. The Kraków-Częstochowa Upland, the Pieniny, and the Western Tatras consist of limestone, while the High Tatras, the Beskids, and the Karkonosze are made up mainly of granite and basalts. The Polish Jura Chain is one of the oldest mountain ranges on earth.\nPoland has 70 mountains over in elevation, all in the Tatras. The Polish Tatras, which consist of the High Tatras and the Western Tatras, is the highest mountain group of Poland and of the entire Carpathian range. In the High Tatras lies Poland's highest point, the north-western summit of Rysy, in elevation. At its foot lies the mountain lakes of Czarny Staw pod Rysami (Black Lake below Mount Rysy), and Morskie Oko (the Marine Eye).\n\nThe second highest mountain group in Poland is the Beskids, whose highest peak is Babia Góra, at . The next highest mountain groups is the Karkonosze in the Sudetes, whose highest point is Śnieżka, at ; Śnieżnik Mountains whose highest point is Śnieżnik, at .\n\nTourists also frequent the Bieszczady Mountains in the far southeast of Poland, whose highest point in Poland is Tarnica, with an elevation of , Gorce Mountains in Gorce National Park, whose highest point is Turbacz, with elevations , and the Pieniny National Park in the Pieniny Mountains, whose highest point is Trzy Korony with elevations of (the highest mountain of this range, Wysokie Skałki (Wysoka), with elevations , is located outside of the national park). The lowest point in Poland – at below sea level – is at Raczki Elbląskie, near Elbląg in the Vistula Delta.\n\nThe only desert located in Poland stretches over the Zagłębie Dąbrowskie (the Coal Fields of Dąbrowa) region. It is called the Błędów Desert, located in the Silesian Voivodeship in southern Poland. It has a total area of . It is one of only five natural deserts in Europe. But also, it is the warmest desert that appears at this latitude. Błędów Desert was created thousands of years ago by a melting glacier. The specific geological structure has been of big importance. The average thickness of the sand layer is about , with a maximum of , which made the fast and deep drainage very easy.\n\nThe Baltic Sea activity in Słowiński National Park created sand dunes which in the course of time separated the bay from the sea. As waves and wind carry sand inland the dunes slowly move, at a speed of meters per year. Some dunes are quite high – up to . The highest peak of the park – Rowokol ( above sea level) — is also an excellent observation point.\n\nPoland is the fourth most forested country in Europe. Forests cover about 30.5% of Poland's land area based on international standards. Its overall percentage is still increasing. Forests of Poland are managed by the National Program of Reforestation (KPZL), aiming an increase of forest-coverage to 33% in 2050. The richness of Polish forests (per SoEF 2011 statistics) is more than twice as high as the European average (with German and French forests being at the top), containing 2.304 billion cubic metres of trees. The largest forest complex in Poland is Lower Silesian Wilderness.\n\nMore than 1% of Poland's territory, , is protected within 23 Polish national parks. Three more national parks are projected for Masuria, the Kraków-Częstochowa Upland, and the eastern Beskids. In addition, wetlands along lakes and rivers in central Poland are legally protected, as are coastal areas in the north. There are over 120 areas designated as landscape parks, along with numerous nature reserves and other protected areas (e.g. Natura 2000).\n\nPresent-day Poland is a country with favorable agricultural prospects, and over two million private farms. It is the leading producer of potatoes and rye in Europe, the world's largest producer of triticale, and one of the more important producers of barley, oats, sugar beets, flax, and various fruits. It is also the European Union's fourth largest supplier of pig meat after Germany, Spain and France.\n\nPhytogeographically, Poland belongs to the Central European province of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the territory of Poland belongs to three Palearctic Ecoregions of the continental forest spanning Central and Northern European temperate broadleaf and mixed forest ecoregions as well as the Carpathian montane conifer forest.\n\nMany animals that have since died out in other parts of Europe still survive in Poland, such as the wisent in the ancient woodland of the Białowieża Forest and in Podlaskie. Other such species include the brown bear in Białowieża, in the Tatras, and in the Beskids, the gray wolf and the Eurasian lynx in various forests, the moose in northern Poland, and the beaver in Masuria, Pomerania, and Podlaskie.\n\nIn the forests, one also encounters game animals, such as red deer, roe deer and wild boars. In eastern Poland there are a number of ancient woodlands, like Białowieża forest, that have never been cleared by people. There are also large forested areas in the mountains, Masuria, Pomerania, Lubusz Land and Lower Silesia.\n\nPoland is the most important breeding ground for a variety of European migratory birds. Out of all of the migratory birds who come to Europe for the summer, one quarter of the global population of white storks (40,000 breeding pairs) live in Poland, particularly in the lake districts and the wetlands along the Biebrza, the Narew, and the Warta, which are part of nature reserves or national parks.\n\nThe longest rivers are the Vistula (), long; the Oder () which forms part of Poland's western border, long; its tributary, the Warta, long; and the Bug, a tributary of the Vistula, long. The Vistula and the Oder flow into the Baltic Sea, as do numerous smaller rivers in Pomerania.\n\nThe Łyna and the Angrapa flow by way of the Pregolya to the Baltic, and the Czarna Hańcza flows into the Baltic through the Neman. While the great majority of Poland's rivers drain into the Baltic Sea, Poland's Beskids are the source of some of the upper tributaries of the Orava, which flows via the Váh and the Danube to the Black Sea. The eastern Beskids are also the source of some streams that drain through the Dniester to the Black Sea.\n\nPoland's rivers have been used since early times for navigation. The Vikings, for example, traveled up the Vistula and the Oder in their longships. In the Middle Ages and in early modern times, when the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was the breadbasket of Europe; the shipment of grain and other agricultural products down the Vistula toward Gdańsk and onward to other parts of Europe took on great importance.\nWith almost ten thousand closed bodies of water covering more than each, Poland has one of the highest numbers of lakes in the world. In Europe, only Finland has a greater density of lakes. The largest lakes, covering more than , are Lake Śniardwy and Lake Mamry in Masuria, and Lake Łebsko and Lake Drawsko in Pomerania.\n\nIn addition to the lake districts in the north (in Masuria, Pomerania, Kashubia, Lubuskie, and Greater Poland), there is also a large number of mountain lakes in the Tatras, of which the Morskie Oko is the largest in area. The lake with the greatest depth—of more than —is Lake Hańcza in the Wigry Lake District, east of Masuria in Podlaskie Voivodeship.\nAmong the first lakes whose shores were settled are those in the Greater Polish Lake District. The stilt house settlement of Biskupin, occupied by more than one thousand residents, was founded before the 7th century BC by people of the Lusatian culture.\n\nLakes have always played an important role in Polish history and continue to be of great importance to today's modern Polish society. The ancestors of today's Poles, the Polanie, built their first fortresses on islands in these lakes. The legendary Prince Popiel ruled from Kruszwica tower erected on the Lake Gopło. The first historically documented ruler of Poland, Duke Mieszko I, had his palace on an island in the Warta River in Poznań. Nowadays the Polish lakes provide a location for the pursuit of water sports such as yachting and wind-surfing.\nThe Polish Baltic coast is approximately long and extends from Świnoujście on the islands of Usedom and Wolin in the west to Krynica Morska on the Vistula Spit in the east. For the most part, Poland has a smooth coastline, which has been shaped by the continual movement of sand by currents and winds. This continual erosion and deposition has formed cliffs, dunes, and spits, many of which have migrated landwards to close off former lagoons, such as Łebsko Lake in Słowiński National Park.\n\nPrior to the end of the Second World War and subsequent change in national borders, Poland had only a very small coastline; this was situated at the end of the 'Polish Corridor', the only internationally recognised Polish territory which afforded the country access to the sea. However, after World War II, the redrawing of Poland's borders and resulting 'shift' of the country's borders left it with a greatly expanded coastline, thus allowing for far greater access to the sea than was ever previously possible. The significance of this event, and importance of it to Poland's future as a major industrialised nation, was alluded to by the 1945 Wedding to the Sea.\n\nThe largest spits are Hel Peninsula and the Vistula Spit. The largest Polish Baltic island is Wolin. The largest sea harbours are Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdańsk, Gdynia, Police and Kołobrzeg. The main coastal resorts are Świnoujście, Międzyzdroje (Misdroy), Kołobrzeg, Łeba, Sopot, Władysławowo and the Hel Peninsula.\n\nNearly all of Poland is swirled northward into the Baltic Sea by the Vistula, the Oder, and the tributaries of these two major rivers. About half the country is drained by the Vistula, which originates in the Silesian Beskids in far south-central Poland.\n\nThe Vistula Basin includes most of the eastern half of the country and is drained by a system of rivers that mainly join the Vistula from the east. One of the tributaries, the Bug, defines 280 kilometers of Poland's eastern border with Ukraine and Belarus.\n\nThe Oder and its major tributary, the Warta, and a few smaller rivers as Kłodnica, Mała Panew, Bóbr, Lusatian Neisse (Nysa Łużycka) and Ina, form a basin that drains the western third of Poland into the Bay of Szczecin. The drainage effect on a large part of Polish terrain is weak, however, especially in the lake region and the inland areas to its south. The predominance of swampland, level terrain, and small, shallow lakes hinders large-scale movement of water. The rivers have two high-water periods per year. The first is caused by melting snow and ice dams in spring adding to the volume of lowland rivers; the second is caused by heavy rains in July.\n\nPoland's long-term and short-term weather patterns are made transitional and variable by the collision of diverse air masses above the country's surface. Maritime air moves across Western Europe, Arctic air sweeps down from the North Atlantic Ocean, and subtropical air arrives from the South Atlantic Ocean. Although the Polar air dominates for much of the year, its conjunction with warmer currents generally moderates temperatures and generates considerable precipitation, clouds, and fog. When the moderating influences are lacking, winter temperatures in mountain valleys may drop to a minimum of .\n\nThe spring arrives slowly in March or April, bringing mainly sunny days after a period of alternating wintertime and springtime conditions. Summer, which extends from June to August, is generally less humid than winter. Showers and thunderstorms alternate with dry sunny weather that is generated when southern and eastern winds prevail. Early autumn is generally sunny and warm before a period of rainy, colder weather in November begins the transition into winter. Winter, which may last from one to three months, brings frequent snowstorms but relatively low total precipitation.\nThe range of mean temperatures is in the northeast to in the southwest, but individual readings in Poland's regions vary widely by season. On the highest mountain peaks, the mean temperature is below . The Baltic coast, influenced by moderating west winds, mostly in Świnoujście, Międzyzdroje, Dziwnów, Nowe Warpno, Police and Szczecin, has cooler summers and warmer winters. The other temperature extreme is in the southeast along the border with Ukraine, where the greatest seasonal differences occur and winter temperatures average 4.5 °C below those in western Poland. The hottest cities in Poland are Tarnów, Wrocław and Słubice.\nThe average temperatures are rising, however. In the period of 1980 to 2010, there were 19 Decembers without snow, and in the period of 2000 to 2010 seven. December 2006 was the warmest one in Poland since 1779. In most of Poland, average temperatures rose by 3-5 degrees Celsius during the last three decades.\n\nThe average annual precipitation for the whole country is , but isolated mountain areas receive as much as per year. The total is slightly higher in the southern uplands than in the central plains. A few areas, notably along the Vistula between Warsaw and the Baltic Sea and in the far northwest, average less than . In winter about half the precipitation in the lowlands and the entire amount in the mountains falls as snow. On average, precipitation in summer is twice of that in winter, providing a dependable supply of water for crops. The growing season is about 40 days longer in the southwest than in the northeast, where spring arrives latest. \nPoland's current voivodeships (provinces) are largely based on the country's historic regions, whereas those of the past two decades (to 1998) had been centred on and named for individual cities. The new units range in area from less than for Opole Voivodeship to more than for Masovian Voivodeship. Administrative authority at voivodeship level is shared between a government-appointed voivode (governor), an elected regional assembly (\"sejmik\") and an executive elected by that assembly.\n\nThe voivodeships are subdivided into \"powiats\" (often referred to in English as counties), and these are further divided into \"gminas\" (also known as communes or municipalities). Major cities normally have the status of both \"gmina\" and \"powiat\". Poland has 16 voivodeships, 379 powiats (including 65 cities with \"powiat\" status), and 2,478 \"gminas\".\n\nWithin Poland's modern borders are the following historic regions:\n\nLinguistically, Poland may be placed in Eastern Europe because the official and most widely spoken language of the state is Polish – one of the West Slavic languages generally associated with the eastern section of the continent. Using historical and cultural criteria, Poland can be identified as Western Europe as well, due to customs and cuisine it used to share with Italy, and France. For instance, Queen Bona Sforza revolutionized Polish eating habits after 1518 with unknown vegetables, fruits and legumes which became Poland's staples for centuries to come. Queen Marie Louise Gonzaga introduced French specialties and brought with her scores of craftsmen, cooks and pâté makers along with table customs considered innately Polish today. Poland shares customs and cuisine with present-day Belarus and Ukraine also, much of it stemming from their common heritage as the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Multiple supranational organizations of significance categorize Poland as an Eastern European country for statistical purposes, including the Statistics Division of the United Nations and EuroVoc (the multilingual thesaurus) of the European Union. Several other agencies of the UN also place Poland in Eastern Europe. Another common definition identifies the former Eastern Bloc territories as Eastern European states, thus including Poland. However, critics of this categorization consider it outdated and detrimental to the reputation of the country.\n\nIn contemporary times, Poland is leaning politically westwards – as a member of the EU and NATO, its government maintains generally close ties with Western Europe and the United States of America. Some argue that Eastern Europe is defined as a region with main characteristics consisting of Byzantine, Orthodox, and some Turco-Islamic influences. Although the Orthodox Ruthenians and Islamic Lipka Tatars together made up a large part of Poland's population throughout history, the Polish state and most ethnic Poles have embraced Catholicism; as such, Poland is excluded from this category. Some scholars agree that Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are Central European states due to their shared Habsburg heritage. Economically, due to its membership in the Visegrád Group, Poland is sometimes grouped together with the V4 states and Germany as part of Mitteleuropa (Central Europe).\n\n\n\nNatural hazards: Occasional flooding\n\nNational parks\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\nThe situation has improved since 1989 due to decline in heavy industry and\nincreased environmental concern by postcommunist governments; air pollution\nnonetheless remains serious because of sulfur dioxide emissions from\ncoal-fired power plants, and the resulting acid rain has caused forest damage; water pollution from industrial and municipal sources is also a problem, as is disposal of hazardous wastes\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n\n\"party to:\"\nAir Pollution, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands\n\n\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nAir Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 1994, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol\n\nGeography - note:\nhistorically, an area of conflict because of flat terrain and the lack of natural barriers on the North European Plain\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59012183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59012183", "title": "Geology of Guadeloupe", "text": "Geology of Guadeloupe\n\nThe geology of Guadeloupe is part of the outer arc of the Lesser Antilles volcanic island arc. Potassium-argon dating indicates that the three northern massifs on Basse-Terre are 2.79 million years ago. Sections of volcanoes collapsed and eroded within the last 650,000 years, after which the Sans Toucher volcano grew in the collapse area. Volcanoes in the north of Basse-Terre mainly produced andesite and basaltic andesite. Massifs emplaced in relation to regional active faulting, tied to the Desirade and Marie-Galante rift systems.\n"}
{"id": "9443715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9443715", "title": "Groenendaal Park", "text": "Groenendaal Park\n\nGroenendaal park lies at the center of Heemstede, Netherlands. \nThe park includes the grounds of old Heemstede country estates Bosbeek, and Meer en Berg. Along its western borders are the old Heemstede country estates Hartekamp, Huis te Manpad, and Iepenrode. On the eastern boundary is the city cemetery.\n\nIn the 17th century Groenendaal was mostly sand dunes. The sand was dug and sold to barges that carried it to Amsterdam for building purposes. Later the resulting fields were used for bleaching linen, and still later for growing tulip bulbs. During the heyday of the tulip craze, Amsterdam merchants purchased land in the Haarlem-Heemstede area for summer homes. Groenendaal park is situated at the site of the former summer home of Amsterdam banker Jan Hope, whose estate Bosbeek was the first example of a large garden in the 'English Style' in the 18th century in the Netherlands. The grounds are part of a long sandy ridge of deciduous forest running in a straight line from the Hague to Alkmaar. The park was designed by John Hope in 1760 and remained in his family for 3 generations. It was purchased by Heemstede and made into a public park in 1913. It has been the scene of two international flower shows, the Flora of 1935 and the Flora of 1953..\n\nJan Hope installed the first steam engine for garden use at the site of this windmill in 1781, which had an opposite purpose than most Dutch windmills. He wanted to pump water into his estate to grow the unusual plants and trees he had cultivated in the dry sand. Dutch windmills are normally used for pumping water out of places. He first built a small windmill much like the one standing today. After hearing of power to be had from steam, he wrote to James Watt and Matthew Boulton to order an improved version of the Newcomen engine. When the big red copper kettle arrived, it was installed by Rinse Lieve Brouwer. In circa 1850 the steam engine was broken down and the copper kettle sold for scrap. The steam engine had a dual purpose; one was to pump water into the garden, en the other was to act as an attraction in and of itself. In the 18th century garden owners went to great lengths to decorate their gardens to attract visitors.\n\nThe attraction of a steam engine became obsolete when the Cruquius steam engine mill was built down the road. In 1850 the Cruquius mill, together with two others, took 3 years to pump out the Haarlem lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "23309403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23309403", "title": "Hanging garden (cultivation)", "text": "Hanging garden (cultivation)\n\nA hanging garden is a sustainable landscape architecture, an artistic garden or a small urban farm: attached to or built on a wall. They are mainly found in areas where land is scarce or where the farmer is mobile or not permanent.\n\nThe most famous hanging gardens were the legendary Hanging Gardens of Babylon. They were considered in antiquity as one of the Seven Wonders of the World, and were located in present-day Iraq.\n\nIn contemporary use, hanging gardens are a green wall on a ground level facade, a balcony, a terrace, or part of a roof garden; of a home, or skyrise greenery with a residential, commercial, or government office building.\n\nPrefabricated modular hanging wall garden systems have been developed and are on the market internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "952429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952429", "title": "Houseplant care", "text": "Houseplant care\n\nHouseplant care is the act of growing houseplants and ensuring they have the necessary conditions for survival and continuing growth. This includes providing soil with sufficient nutrients, correct lighting conditions, air circulation and adding the right amount of water.\n\nWatering houseplants on a regular basis is necessary for the plant to remain healthy and thrive. They should not, however, be watered on a scheduled basis, because different plant species need different amounts of water and sunlight so it is important to know the specifics for the particular plants that are being grown.\n\nHouseplants sometimes also need to be cleaned of dust and greasy films that collect on the leaves when they are indoors. Dusty, grimy leaves can inhibit growth.\n\nThe meaning of Low-Medium-High depends on the context. For example, in orchid literature 1,500 foot-candle is referred to as Low Light.\n\nMost plants will survive illuminance 10 times lower than listed below but will not grow as well or bloom.\n\n\nMost plants grown as houseplants are selected because they are already adapted to growing at typical house temperatures, between 15° and 25°C. Exceptions do occur, and some plants require chilling periods at lower temperatures (down to 5° or 10°) in winter when less light is available. \n\nSince almost all of the air circulation (transpiration) happens in the roots as does almost all of the energy production, the roots must be able to breathe easily. Overwatering will drown a typical houseplant. The air is pulled through the soil by the breathing of the roots. Air must be able to flow through the soil.\n\nThe amount of water a particular houseplant needs is influenced by several factors. Not only is the individual plant size and species important, but also the growing conditions. Light, temperature, humidity, container type, container size, and soil type all influence the speed of growth and therefore the amount of water needed. Further, it is best to look up individual plant types for their watering needs.\n\nHouseplants in a controlled production greenhouse are kept in an ideal conditions for rapid growth. Some plants and production flowers are even hybridized for fast growth characteristics.\nNutritional needs of a plant in a production green house are greater than in a typical personal house plant environment where humidity, light, irrigation, and air circulation are not ideal. After being removed from the production greenhouse the plant slows evapotranspiration. Likewise after being brought into a typical household the watering and nutitional requirements decline, the plants growth rate declines and the nutritional needs decline. Plants use most of the carbon that they release from CO to create energy but some of the carbon feeds plant growth. Far less plant food comes from the soil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22945235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22945235", "title": "Irrigation district", "text": "Irrigation district\n\nIn the United States an irrigation district is a cooperative, self-governing public corporation set up as a subdivision of the State government, with definite geographic boundaries, organized, and having taxing power to obtain and distribute water for irrigation of lands within the district; created under the authority of a State legislature with the consent of a designated fraction of the landowners or citizens.\n\nIt is a special-purpose district created by statute in order to develop large irrigation projects.\nThese districts have the power to tax, borrow, and condemn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325552", "title": "Krishna Singh Rawat", "text": "Krishna Singh Rawat\n\nKrishna Singh Rawat (also known as Kishen Singh) was an Indian explorer and cartographer, what the British called a \"pundit\", the cousin of the explorer Nain Singh Rawat. He came from Dehradun.\n\nSingh's last and greatest journey commenced in 1878. He followed the northern trade route from Lhasa to Xinjiang and China. He followed the route all the way to Dunhuang, and on his way back explored the eastern Tibet border region. At one point the caravan leader wanted the caravan to go by horse to cross a bandit-ridden area faster. Krishna, unable to count his steps during this period, measured the distance (230 miles) by counting his horse's steps instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20675239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20675239", "title": "List of National Natural Landmarks in American Samoa", "text": "List of National Natural Landmarks in American Samoa\n\nThis is a list of National Natural Landmarks (NNL) in American Samoa. All locations are on communally owned lands.\n"}
{"id": "23667534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23667534", "title": "List of Phineas and Ferb songs", "text": "List of Phineas and Ferb songs\n\nThis is a list of songs from the Disney Channel's original series, \"Phineas and Ferb\".\n\nThe show's theme song is called \"Today is Gonna Be a Great Day\" performed by Bowling For Soup. There is a Christmas version for \"Phineas and Ferb Christmas Vacation\", a Halloween version for \"That's the Spirit\" and \"The Curse of Candace\", a winter version for \"For Your Ice Only\" and \"Happy New Year!\" and another Halloween version for \"Druselsteinoween\", \"Terrifying Tri-State Trilogy of Terror\", and \"Face Your Fear\". An adaptation was also made for the 2011 Little League World Series.\n\nThe first season of \"Phineas and Ferb\" was composed of 47 episodes, and 69 songs. It is focused on Phineas and Ferb with their crazed inventions, as Candace attempts to bust them. Also, Perry the Platypus fights his battles against his nemesis, Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. The two songless episodes \"Rollercoaster\" and \"Lights, Candace, Action\" are not listed because they do not have songs. \nThe second season of \"Phineas and Ferb\" is composed of 64 episodes & 111 songs. Phineas and Ferb build more crazed inventions with their friends, while Candace gets closer to busting them. Perry the Platypus continues on his duties to stop Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. The two songless episodes are not listed. \"Not Phineas and Ferb\" includes \"Space Adventure\" and \"The Lizard Whisperer\" includes \"Egyptian Guitar Solo\" without lyrics.\n\nThe third season of \"Phineas and Ferb\" is composed of 58 episodes & 70 songs. Phineas and Ferb build more crazed inventions with their friends, while Candace still attempts to bust them. Perry the Platypus continues on his duties to stop Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. The songless episode \"Mommy Can You Hear Me?\" is not listed.\nThe fourth season of \"Phineas and Ferb\" is composed of 48 episodes. Phineas and Ferb build more crazed inventions with their friends, while Candace still attempts to bust them. Perry the Platypus continues on his duties to stop Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz.\nThere are some other songs that are not heard on the show, but are for promotions. There are eight current songs that fall under this section.\n\nWalt Disney Records and Hollywood Records released the \"Phineas and Ferb\" soundtrack, featuring 26 original songs from the series, on September 22, 2009. The soundtrack was later followed by the soundtracks of \"Christmas Vacation\" and \"\", both of them having only been released digitally, on December 2009 and August 3, 2010. A karaoke CD adaptation of the series' soundtrack was released by Disney on March 30, 2010, produced and released as part of its \"Disney Karaoke Series\". A fourth soundtrack was released on September 21, 2010, this time a festive compilation soundtrack, entitled \"Phineas and Ferb Holiday Favorites\", which contained 7 songs from \"Christmas Vacation\", 8 Christmas carols sung by \"Phineas and Ferb\" characters, and a song that was cut from the special for time (\"What Does He Want?\"). On August 2, 2011, another soundtrack entitled \"\" was released. The soundtrack features songs from \"\", as well as songs from \"Rollercoaster: The Musical!\", and various other episodes from Season 2 of the show. Also, a UK-exclusive soundtrack was released, named \"Phineas and Ferb-ulous: The Ultimate Album\" which included songs from the first and second seasons as well as those from \"Summer Belongs to You!\".\n\nDisney XD aired the episode \"Phineas and Ferb's Musical Cliptastic Countdown\" on October 12, 2009. The top 10 songs (as voted on by viewers online) were aired in a Total Request Live-style countdown show hosted by Major Monogram and Dr. Doofenshmirtz. Disney Channel aired this on October 16, 2009. \nThe top 10 songs were:\n\nThe second cliptastic countdown was hosted by Kelly Osbourne and co-hosted by Dr Doof and Major M. with an appearance from Maia Mitchell. Sixteen songs competed against each other to win. In the UK, Maia Mitchell and Kelly Osbourne were the hosts.\n"}
{"id": "59034500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59034500", "title": "List of defunct airlines of Réunion", "text": "List of defunct airlines of Réunion\n\nThis is a list of defunct airlines of Réunion.\n\n"}
{"id": "21159860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21159860", "title": "List of extreme points of Ukraine", "text": "List of extreme points of Ukraine\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Ukraine: the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location, as well as the highest and lowest points in the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5323858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323858", "title": "List of governors of British Guiana", "text": "List of governors of British Guiana\n\nThe Governor of British Guiana was the Crown representative in British Guiana. The office existed from 1831 when the colonies of Demerara-Essequibo (see Demerara and Essequibo (colony)) and Berbice united as British Guiana until 1966 when Guyana attained independence.\n\nOn 26 May 1966, the colony achieved independence from the United Kingdom as Guyana. After independence, the viceroy in Guyana was the Governor-General of Guyana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55233708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55233708", "title": "List of monuments in Kathmandu, Nepal", "text": "List of monuments in Kathmandu, Nepal\n\nThis is a list of Monuments in Kathmandu, Nepal as officially recognized by and available through the website of the Department of Archaeology, Nepal in the Kathmandu District. Kathmandu is one of the eight districts of Bagmati Zone and is located in Central Northern Part of Nepal. Kathmandu is a historically rich city and Hindu temples are the main attraction of this district. The monument list below is populated using the authentic information at Department of Archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "54978171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54978171", "title": "List of museums in Niue", "text": "List of museums in Niue\n\nNiue has one museum, installed in Alofi the major city : Taoga Niue Museum. Taoga Niue Museum replaces the Huanaki Cultural Centre & Museum, destroyed by cyclone in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18208958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208958", "title": "List of tourist attractions in Taipei", "text": "List of tourist attractions in Taipei\n\nThis is the list of tourist attractions in Taipei, capital city of Taiwan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23049767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23049767", "title": "Mary garden", "text": "Mary garden\n\nA Mary garden is a small sacred garden enclosing a statue or shrine of the Virgin Mary, who is known to many Christians as the Blessed Virgin, Our Lady, or the Mother of God. In the New Testament, Mary is the mother of Jesus of Nazareth. Mary gardens are most common to those Christian denominations which hold the Virgin Mary in special esteem, particularly Roman Catholics and Anglicans.\n\nThe practice originated among monasteries and convents in medieval Europe. During the Middle Ages, people saw reminders of Mary in the flowers and herbs growing around them.\nThe first reference to an actual garden dedicated to Mary is from the life of St. Fiacre, Irish patron saint of gardening, who planted and tended a garden around the oratory to Our Lady he built at his famous hospice for the poor and infirm in France in the 7th Century. The first record of a flower actually named for Mary is that of \"seint mary gouldes\" (St. Mary's Gold or Marygold) for the Pot Marigold or \"Calendula\", in a 1373 English recipe for a potion to ward off the plague.\n\nThe first such garden open to the public in the United States was founded in 1932 at St. Joseph's Church, Woods Hole, Cape Cod, Massachusetts. This garden was founded by Frances Crane Lillie, a summer resident of Woods Hole. It was Lillie's recollection of the symbolic herbs and flowers that she had encountered in England that prompted her to conceive and donate a Mary Garden to St. Joseph's Church.\n\nInspired by the St. Joseph's Mary Garden in Woods Hole, Edward A. G. McTague and John S. Stokes, Jr. founded \"Mary's Gardens\" of Philadelphia in 1951 as a project to research flowers identified with Mary, and make available seeds and plant source information for starting Mary Gardens. They also initiated a series of articles in religious publications to encourage the planting of Mary gardens.\n\nA Mary garden may be a single indoor pot, a large plot outdoors, or anything in between. They can be found at parishes, schools, homes, shrines, convents and other institutions.\n\nThe statue of Mary, sometimes holding the Infant Christ, is central to the garden. Select flowers, shrubs, and trees associated with the legends about Mary are planted in the garden. Such plants may include laurel trees, strawberries, ladyslippers, lilies of the valley, peonies, violets, irises and roses, all of which are identified as symbolic and significant in the story of Mary as recounted in the Bible and other Christian stories. Gardens may have benches and a facility for lighting votive candles.\n\nIt demonstrates devotional commitment through the spiritual practice of designing, building and maintaining the garden and for the attendance, contemplation, and prayers of visitors. Mary gardens are similar to the Zen meditation gardens found in the Buddhist tradition, with the exception that a Mary Garden pays homage to a person, the Virgin Mary, whereas a meditation garden in the East Asian traditions does not focus on a person.\n\nMore than 30 flowers and herbs are connected to legends about Mary’s life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23218987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23218987", "title": "Maurice Besnier", "text": "Maurice Besnier\n\nMaurice Besnier (29 September 1873, Paris – 4 March 1933, Caen) was a French historian, who specialised in ancient geography and topography.\n\nFormer member of the École française de Rome, he became the 34th professor of ancient history, epigraphy and archeology of the Faculté des Lettres de Caen. He was named as chair of ancient geography at the École pratique des hautes études in 1920, and in 1924 became a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. He contributed to the \"Pauly-Wissowa\" and to the \"Dictionnaire des Antiquités\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11290032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11290032", "title": "Monte Desert", "text": "Monte Desert\n\nThe Monte Desert is a South American ecoregion, lying entirely within Argentina and covering approximately the submontane areas of Catamarca, La Rioja, San Juan, San Luis and Mendoza Provinces, plus the western half of La Pampa Province and the extreme north of Río Negro Province. The desert lies southeast of the Atacama Desert in Chile, north of the larger Patagonian Desert, east of the Andes and west of the Sierra de Córdoba.\n\nThe delineations between the Monte Desert, the Atacama Desert, and the Patagonian Desert are not exact and the desert seems to be more-or-less continuous with the other two nearby deserts. The geography of the land is very similar to that of the interior Patagonian Desert, with volcanic sediments, piedmont plains, large mountain blocks and many usually dry salt lakes. The major river is the Río Colorado and its tributary the Río Desaguadero, which meet in the south of the region and provide its principal source of irrigation water for wine crops.\n\nDue to the region lying on the eastern, or leeward, side of the Andes and west of the Sierra de Córdoba, it experiences very little rain. These rain shadow effects are the primary reason for the aridity of the region and the formation of the Monte and other nearby deserts. Although a difference between this desert and the other two deserts is the lack of intensity of effect from the cold water currents off the South American coast for the Monte Desert. This allows the desert to support a wider variety of life than the other two more extreme deserts.\n\nThe flora of the region is much more diverse than the nearby Patagonian Desert (which contains mainly shrubs and grasses) and the Atacama Desert (which is pretty much devoid of life). Shrubs and grasses are not only common, but tall cacti even appear in the more hospitable areas of the desert.\n\nThe fauna of the area is also very similar to that of the Patagonian Desert, only in greater diversity and number due to the Monte's more hospitable conditions. Small mammals like mice abound and larger animals like the guanaco and burrowing owl can be found as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "7157834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7157834", "title": "Monte Titano", "text": "Monte Titano\n\nMonte Titano (\"Mount Titan\") is a mountain of the Apennines and the highest peak in San Marino. It stands at above sea level and is located immediately to the east of the capital, San Marino. It was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2008 under the combined title \"San Marino Historic Centre and Mount Titano\". Inscribed under reference no. 1245 criteria iii, the two together encompass an area of 55 ha with a buffer zone of 167 ha. It encompasses Mount Titano and the other structures such as the fortification towers, walls, gates and bastions, as well as a neo-classical basilica located on it and its slopes forming a small but unique urban conglomerate.\n\nStraddled on the ridge of Mount Titano is the city of San Marino of the Republic of San Marino, the history of which dates from the early 4th century. According to the legend related to the Mount and its precincts a small monastery existed on top of the Mount during the 8th century. The mountainous landscape provides excellent views of its surroundings, and its isolated location ensured the needed seclusion for San Marino to survive as a Republic over the past several centuries.\n\nThe mountain has three peaks; on each is one of The Three Towers of San Marino. Saint Marinus is always represented with Mount Titano in his hands.\n\nMonte Titano is located in central San Marino (seen in maps in rough rectangular shape), to the southeast of the City of San Marino and to the north of the village of Murata, at a distance of from the Adriatic Coast. Monte Titano looks like a rugged limestone outcrop, located only 13 kilometres (a figure of 10 km is mentioned in another reference) from the Adriatic Sea on the Apennines. Although the highest point is 739 metres above sea level, the rocky outcrop is about 200 metres in height at most. From the top of Monte Titano views of the entire nation of San Marino and further afield can be viewed scenically. The mountain gives birth to several streams, including the San Marino River, which flows down its western slope through a broad valley and flows into the Marecchia River, through Marecchia Torello and into the Adriatic Sea away and the Cando River, born in Marano, which flows into the Adriatic coast between Rimini and Riccione Ausa. The terrain has fertile soils in Emilia Romagna plain and soft rolling hills in the Marche and Montefeltro region. The mountain dips into the calm Adriatic sea.\n\nDuring the Tertiary era, the area where San Marino lies was the sea. Violent earthquakes caused major upheavals in the Earth's surface. Because of these intensive earthquakes, a mass of rock situated about from the mountain, was lifted and slid slowly toward the Adriatic Sea. This mass of rock gave rise to various mountains, including Mount Titano. The vertebrate fossils found on the slopes of Mount Titano are mostly aquatic in origin, because of the fact this rock was once located underneath the sea in its current spot. Fossils of various fish, especially the fossils of shark teeth have been discovered on Monte Titano, with many dated to the Miocene period. The most important fossil discovery is that of a whale, which is now preserved in the Bologna Archaeological Museum.\n\nThe precincts of Monte Titano and the San Marino city experiences mild temperate climate; the maximum temperatures reported is of 79 °F (26 °C) in summer while the minimum is 19 °F (−7 °C) in winter. Annual precipitation varies from about 22 inches (560 mm) to 32 inches (800 mm).\n\nSet in the Mediterranean zone the vegetation is typical influenced by elevation variations. Numerous trees inhabit the mountain, including chestnuts, oaks, laburnum, cypress, fir trees and some shrubs and asparagus, typical of the driest areas, such as the territory in the Three Towers of San Marino vicinity. On the cliffs of Mount Titano is also found \"Ephedra Nebrodensis\", a plant typical of Sicily and Sardinia.\n\nWildlife is represented by all classes of vertebrates and, given the characteristics of the mountainous territory, birds and mammals are the most common animals. In relation to birds, several can be mentioned such as the kestrel, barn owl, owl, tawny owl, the magpie and buzzards. Common animal life includes roe deer, wild boar, deer, weasels, marten, porcupine, hare, hedgehogs, polecats, badgers and foxes.\n\nSince 2008, Monte Titano was allocated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, in tandem with the historic centre of San Marino. The reason given by the Committee refers to \"witnessing the continuity of a free republic since Middle Ages. \" This heritage site include the towers, walls, gates and bastions of the City of San Marino, the Basilica di San Marino of the nineteenth century, some convents of the fourteenth and sixteenth centuries, the eighteenth century Teatro Titano Theatre and the Palazzo Pubblico of the nineteenth century.\n\nThe layout of the Mount Titano presents three peaks, each crowned by ancient towers named Guaita, Cesta and Montale, with triple fortifications that enclose the capital city. Each tower in turn has a metal vane fixed on it which is in the shape of an ostrich plume, (\"perhaps a pun on the Italian \"penne\", meaning \"plumes\") which is attributed to the name of the mountains. Those three towers are represented in the coat of arms of in the central part of the National Flag (horizontal white and blue) of the country (which has a width to length ratio of 3 to 4). The capital city is set on the western side of Mount Titano. An urban network of roads links the fortresses.\n"}
{"id": "34935785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34935785", "title": "Oscar Peschel", "text": "Oscar Peschel\n\nOscar Ferdinand Peschel (17 March 1826, Dresden – 13 August 1875, Leipzig) was a German geographer and anthropologist.\n\nAs the son of an officer and teacher at the local military school, Peschel studied law from 1845 to 1848 in Leipzig and Heidelberg. In 1850 he joined the editorial staff of the \"Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung\". In 1854 he took over the editorship for the journal \"Das Ausland\", of which he continued until the end of March 1871.\n\nIn 1871 he became a full professor of the newly established chair of geography at the University of Leipzig. This is thus the fourth oldest chair of geography in Germany after Berlin, Göttingen and Bonn.\n\nPeschel 1858 corresponding member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences. Shortly before his death he was also a regular member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences in Leipzig.\n\nIn 1871 he became a full Professor of the newly established Chair of Geography at the University of Leipzig, he was also a prominent corresponding member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences. Peschel is most remembered for his book \"The Races of Man: and their geographical distribution\" (1876) which classifies man into seven races: Australoids, (Papuans), (Melanesians), Mongoloids, Dravidians, Bushmen (Capoids), Negroids and Mediterraneans (Caucasoids - the race itself is divided by Peschel into the Hamite, Semite, and Indo-European families).\n\n\nPeschel Island in the Svalbard archipelago is named after Peschel.\n\n"}
{"id": "475254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475254", "title": "Petrus Plancius", "text": "Petrus Plancius\n\nPetrus Plancius (1552 – May 15, 1622) was a Dutch-Flemish astronomer, cartographer and clergyman. He was born as Pieter Platevoet in Dranouter, now in Heuvelland, West Flanders. He studied theology in Germany and England. At the age of 24 he became a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church.\n\nBecause of fear of religious prosecution by the Inquisition Plancius fled from Brussels to Amsterdam after the city fell into Spanish hands in 1585. There he became interested in navigation and cartography and, being fortunate enough to have access to nautical charts recently brought from Portugal, he was soon recognized as an expert on the shipping routes to India. He strongly believed in the idea of a North East passage until the failure of Willem Barentsz's third voyage in 1597 seemed to preclude the possibility of such a route.\n\nFor his pioneering contributions in the history of celestial cartography, Plancius is considered to be one of the notable figures in the Golden Age of Dutch/Netherlandish cartography (c. 1570s–1670s).\n\nIn 1592 Plancius published his best known world map titled \"Nova et exacta Terrarum Tabula geographica et hydrographica\". Apart from maps, he published journals and navigational guides and developed a new method for determining longitude. He also introduced the Mercator projection for navigational maps.\n\nPlancius was one of the founders of the Dutch East India Company for which he drew over 100 maps.\n\nPlancius was closely acquainted with Henry Hudson, an explorer of the New World.\n\nPlancius prepared the map, \"Exacta & accurata delinatio… regionibus China, Cauchinchina, Camboja, sive Champa, Syao, Malacca, Arracan & Pegu,\" published in Jan Huygen van Linschoten’s popular book, \"Itinerario\" (1596).\n\nIn 1589 Plancius collaborated with the Amsterdam cartographer Jacob Floris van Langren on a 32.5-cm celestial globe, which, using the sparse information available about southern celestial features, for the first time depicted: Crux the southern cross, Triangulum Australe the southern triangle, and the Magellanic Clouds, Nubecula Major and Minor.\n\nIn 1595 Plancius asked Pieter Dirkszoon Keyser, the chief pilot on the \"Hollandia\", to make observations to fill in the blank area around the south celestial pole on European maps of the southern sky. Keyser died in Java the following year – the expedition had many casualties – but his catalogue of 135 stars, probably measured up with the help of explorer-colleague Frederick de Houtman, was delivered to Plancius. These stars appear as 12 new southern constellations, on a 35-cm celestial globe designed by Plancius in late 1597 (or early 1598) and produced in collaboration with the Amsterdam cartographer Jodocus Hondius the Elder. The 12 new constellations (mostly referring to animals and subjects described in natural history books and travellers' journals of his day) are Apis the Bee (later changed to Musca by Lacaille), Apus the Bird of Paradise, Chamaeleon, Dorado the Goldfish (or Swordfish), Grus the Crane, Hydrus the Small Water Snake, Indus the Indian, Pavo the Peacock, Phoenix, Triangulum Australe the Southern Triangle, Tucana the Toucan, and Volans the Flying Fish. (The Southern Triangle and Southern Cross were reported as asterisms by earlier navigators and appear on earlier charts, but the globe of 1598 is the first surviving source that plots their locations reasonably accurately.) Also notable is the inclusion of Achernar as Alpha Eridani. \n\nThese constellations, together with the constellation Columba illustrated by Plancius on his large wall map of the world of 1592, were then incorporated in 1603 by Johann Bayer in his sky atlas, the \"Uranometria\".\n\nIn 1612 (or 1613) Plancius introduced the following eight constellations on a 26.5-cm celestial globe published in Amsterdam by Pieter van der Keere: Apes the Bee, Camelopardalis the Giraffe (often interpreted as a Camel), Cancer Minor the Small Crab, Euphrates Fluvius et Tigris Fluvius the Rivers Euphrates and Tigris, Gallus the Cock, Jordanis Fluvius the River Jordan, Monoceros the Unicorn and Sagitta Australis the Southern Arrow. Of the latter constellations, only Camelopardalis and Monoceros are still found on modern star charts, and recognized by the IAU.\n\nThe minor planet 10648 Plancius commemorates his contributions in celestial and terrestrial cartography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22297676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22297676", "title": "Poelman", "text": "Poelman\n\nPoelman is a Dutch toponymic surname that translates to \"pool man\", originally referring to a person who lived near a small lake. The name is most common in the provinces of Drenthe and Groninegen. Alternative spellings include Poelmann and Poelmans. The name may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "598434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598434", "title": "Post-glacial rebound", "text": "Post-glacial rebound\n\nPost-glacial rebound (also called isostatic rebound or crustal rebound) is the rise of land masses after the lifting of the huge weight of ice sheets during the last glacial period, which had caused isostatic depression. Post-glacial rebound and isostatic depression are phases of glacial isostasy (glacial isostatic adjustment, glacioisostasy), the deformation of the Earth's crust in response to changes in ice mass distribution. The direct raising effects of post-glacial rebound are readily apparent in parts of Northern Eurasia, Northern America, Patagonia, and Antarctica. However, through the processes of \"ocean siphoning\" and \"continental levering\", the effects of post-glacial rebound on sea level are felt globally far from the locations of current and former ice sheets.\n\nDuring the last glacial period, much of northern Europe, Asia, North America, Greenland and Antarctica was covered by ice sheets, which reached up to three kilometres thick during the glacial maximum about 20,000 years ago. The enormous weight of this ice caused the surface of the Earth's crust to deform and warp downward, forcing the viscoelastic mantle material to flow away from the loaded region. At the end of each glacial period when the glaciers retreated, the removal of this weight led to slow (and still ongoing) uplift or rebound of the land and the return flow of mantle material back under the deglaciated area. Due to the extreme viscosity of the mantle, it will take many thousands of years for the land to reach an equilibrium level.\n\nThe uplift has taken place in two distinct stages. The initial uplift following deglaciation was almost immediate due to the elastic response of the crust as the ice load was removed. After this elastic phase, uplift proceeded by slow viscous flow at an exponentially decreasing rate. Today, typical uplift rates are of the order of 1 cm/year or less. In northern Europe, this is clearly shown by the GPS data obtained by the BIFROST GPS network. Studies suggest that rebound will continue for at least another 10,000 years. The total uplift from the end of deglaciation depends on the local ice load and could be several hundred metres near the centre of rebound.\n\nRecently, the term \"post-glacial rebound\" is gradually being replaced by the term \"glacial isostatic adjustment\". This is in recognition that the response of the Earth to glacial loading and unloading is not limited to the upward rebound movement, but also involves downward land movement, horizontal crustal motion, changes in global sea levels and the Earth's gravity field, induced earthquakes, and changes in the Earth's rotation. Another alternate term is \"glacial isostasy\", because the uplift near the centre of rebound is due to the tendency towards the restoration of isostatic equilibrium (as in the case of isostasy of mountains). Unfortunately, that term gives the wrong impression that isostatic equilibrium is somehow reached, so by appending \"adjustment\" at the end, the motion of restoration is emphasized.\n\nPost-glacial rebound produces measurable effects on vertical crustal motion, global sea levels, horizontal crustal motion, gravity field, Earth's rotation, crustal stress, and earthquakes. Studies of glacial rebound give us information about the flow law of mantle rocks, which is important to the study of mantle convection, plate tectonics and the thermal evolution of the Earth. It also gives insight into past ice sheet history, which is important to glaciology, paleoclimate, and changes in global sea level. Understanding postglacial rebound is also important to our ability to monitor recent global change.\n\nErratic boulders, U-shaped valleys, drumlins, eskers, kettle lakes, bedrock striations are among the common signatures of the Ice Age. In addition, post-glacial rebound has caused numerous significant changes to coastlines and landscapes over the last several thousand years, and the effects continue to be significant.\n\nIn Sweden, Lake Mälaren was formerly an arm of the Baltic Sea, but uplift eventually cut it off and led to its becoming a freshwater lake in about the 12th century, at the time when Stockholm was founded at its outlet. Marine seashells found in Lake Ontario sediments imply a similar event in prehistoric times. Other pronounced effects can be seen on the island of Öland, Sweden, which has little topographic relief due to the presence of the very level Stora Alvaret. The rising land has caused the Iron Age settlement area to recede from the Baltic Sea, making the present day villages on the west coast set back unexpectedly far from the shore. These effects are quite dramatic at the village of Alby, for example, where the Iron Age inhabitants were known to subsist on substantial coastal fishing.\n\nAs a result of post-glacial rebound, the Gulf of Bothnia is predicted to eventually close up at Kvarken in more than 2,000 years. The Kvarken is a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site, selected as a \"type area\" illustrating the effects of post-glacial rebound and the holocene glacial retreat.\n\nIn several other Nordic ports, like Tornio and Pori (formerly at Ulvila), the harbour has had to be relocated several times. Place names in the coastal regions also illustrate the rising land: there are inland places named 'island', 'skerry', 'rock', 'point' and 'sound'. For example, Oulunsalo \"island of Oulujoki\" is a peninsula, with inland names such as \"Koivukari\" \"Birch Rock\", \"Santaniemi\" \"Sandy Cape\", and \"Salmioja\" \"the brook of the Sound\". (Compare and .)\n\nIn Great Britain, glaciation affected Scotland but not southern England, and the post-glacial rebound of northern Great Britain (up to 10 cm per century) is causing a corresponding downward movement of the southern half of the island (up to 5 cm per century). This will eventually lead to an increased risk of floods in southern England and south-western Ireland.\n\nSince the glacial isostatic adjustment process causes the land to move relative to the sea, ancient shorelines are found to lie above present day sea level in areas that were once glaciated. On the other hand, places in the peripheral bulge area which was uplifted during glaciation now begins to subside. Therefore, ancient beaches are found below present day sea level in the bulge area. The \"relative sea level data\", which consists of height and age measurements of the ancient beaches around the world, tells us that glacial isostatic adjustment proceeded at a higher rate near the end of deglaciation than today.\n\nThe present-day uplift motion in northern Europe is also monitored by a GPS network called BIFROST. Results of GPS data show a peak rate of about 11 mm/year in the north part of the Gulf of Bothnia, but this uplift rate decreases away and becomes negative outside the former ice margin.\n\nIn the near field outside the former ice margin, the land sinks relative to the sea. This is the case along the east coast of the United States, where ancient beaches are found submerged below present day sea level and Florida is expected to be submerged in the future. GPS data in North America also confirms that land uplift becomes subsidence outside the former ice margin.\n\nTo form the ice sheets of the last Ice Age, water from the oceans evaporated, condensed as snow and was deposited as ice in high latitudes. Thus global sea level fell during glaciation.\n\nThe ice sheets at the last glacial maximum were so massive that global sea level fell by about 120 metres. Thus continental shelves were exposed and many islands became connected with the continents through dry land. This was the case between the British Isles and Europe (Doggerland), or between Taiwan, the Indonesian islands and Asia (Sundaland). A sub-continent also existed between Siberia and Alaska that allowed the migration of people and animals during the last glacial maximum.\n\nThe fall in sea level also affects the circulation of ocean currents and thus has important impact on climate during the glacial maximum.\n\nDuring deglaciation, the melted ice water returns to the oceans, thus sea level in the ocean increases again. However, geological records of sea level changes show that the redistribution of the melted ice water is not the same everywhere in the oceans. In other words, depending upon the location, the rise in sea level at a certain site may be more than that at another site. This is due to the gravitational attraction between the mass of the melted water and the other masses, such as remaining ice sheets, glaciers, water masses and mantle rocks and the changes in centrifugal potential due to Earth's variable rotation.\n\nAccompanying vertical motion is the horizontal motion of the crust. The BIFROST GPS network shows that the motion diverges from the centre of rebound. However, the largest horizontal velocity is found near the former ice margin.\n\nThe situation in North America is less certain; this is due to the sparse distribution of GPS stations in northern Canada, which is rather inaccessible.\n\nThe combination of horizontal and vertical motion changes the tilt of the surface. That is, locations farther north rise faster, an effect that becomes apparent in lakes. The bottoms of the lakes gradually tilt away from the direction of the former ice maximum, such that lake shores on the side of the maximum (typically north) recede and the opposite (southern) shores sink. This causes the formation of new rapids and rivers. For example, Lake Pielinen, which is large (90 x 30 km) and oriented perpendicularly to the former ice margin, originally drained through an outlet in the middle of the lake near Nunnanlahti to Lake Höytiäinen. The change of tilt caused Pielinen to burst through the Uimaharju esker at the southwestern end of the lake, creating a new river (Pielisjoki) that runs to the sea via Lake Pyhäselkä to Lake Saimaa. The effects are similar to that concerning seashores, but occur above sea level. Tilting of land will also affect the flow of water in lakes and rivers in the future, and thus important for water resource management planning.\n\nIce, water and mantle rocks have mass, and as they move around, they exert a gravitational pull on other masses towards them. Thus, the gravity field, which is sensitive to all mass on the surface and within the Earth, is affected by the redistribution of ice/melted water on the surface of the Earth and the flow of mantle rocks within.\n\nToday, more than 6000 years after the last deglaciation terminated, the flow of mantle material back to the glaciated area causes the overall shape of the Earth to become less oblate. This change in the topography of Earth's surface affects the long-wavelength components of the gravity field. \n\nThe changing gravity field can be detected by repeated land measurements with absolute gravimeters and recently by the GRACE satellite mission. The change in long-wavelength components of Earth's gravity field also perturbs the orbital motion of satellites and has been detected by LAGEOS satellite motion.\n\nThe vertical datum is a theoretical reference surface for altitude measurement and plays vital roles in many human activities, including land surveying and construction of buildings and bridges. Since postglacial rebound continuously deforms the crustal surface and the gravitational field, the vertical datum needs to be redefined repeatedly through time.\n\nAccording to the theory of plate tectonics, plate-plate interaction results in earthquakes near plate boundaries. However, large earthquakes are found in intraplate environment like eastern Canada (up to M7) and northern Europe (up to M5) which are far away from present-day plate boundaries. An important intraplate earthquake was the magnitude 8 New Madrid earthquake that occurred in mid-continental US in the year 1811.\n\nGlacial loads provided more than 30 MPa of vertical stress in northern Canada and more than 20 MPa in northern Europe during glacial maximum. This vertical stress is supported by the mantle and the flexure of the lithosphere. Since the mantle and the lithosphere continuously respond to the changing ice and water loads, the state of stress at any location continuously changes in time. The changes in the orientation of the state of stress is recorded in the postglacial faults in southeastern Canada. When the postglacial faults formed at the end of deglaciation 9000 years ago, the horizontal principal stress orientation was almost perpendicular to the former ice margin, but today the orientation is in the northeast-southwest, along the direction of seafloor spreading at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. This shows that the stress due to postglacial rebound had played an important role at deglacial time, but has gradually relaxed so that tectonic stress has become more dominant today.\n\nAccording to the Mohr–Coulomb theory of rock failure, large glacial loads generally suppress earthquakes, but rapid deglaciation promotes earthquakes. According to Wu & Hasagawa, the rebound stress that is available to trigger earthquakes today is of the order of 1 MPa. This stress level is not large enough to rupture intact rocks but is large enough to reactivate pre-existing faults that are close to failure. Thus, both postglacial rebound and past tectonics play important roles in today's intraplate earthquakes in eastern Canada and southeast US. Generally postglacial rebound stress could have triggered the intraplate earthquakes in eastern Canada and may have played some role in triggering earthquakes in the eastern US including the New Madrid earthquakes of 1811. The situation in northern Europe today is complicated by the current tectonic activities nearby and by coastal loading and weakening.\n\nIncreasing pressure due to the weight of the ice during glaciation may have suppressed melt generation and volcanic activities below Iceland and Greenland. On the other hand, decreasing pressure due to deglaciation can increase the melt production and volcanic activities by 20-30 times.\n\nRecent global warming has caused mountain glaciers and the ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica to melt and global sea level to rise. Therefore, monitoring sea level rise and the mass balance of ice sheets and glaciers allows people to understand more about global warming.\n\nRecent rise in sea levels has been monitored by tide gauges and satellite altimetry (e.g. TOPEX/Poseidon). As well as the addition of melted ice water from glaciers and ice sheets, recent sea level changes are affected by the thermal expansion of sea water due to global warming, sea level change due to deglaciation of the last glacial maximum (postglacial sea level change), deformation of the land and ocean floor and other factors. Thus, to understand global warming from sea level change, one must be able to separate all these factors, especially postglacial rebound, since it is one of the leading factors.\n\nMass changes of ice sheets can be monitored by measuring changes in the ice surface height, the deformation of the ground below and the changes in the gravity field over the ice sheet. Thus ICESat, GPS and GRACE satellite mission are useful for such purpose. However, glacial isostatic adjustment of the ice sheets affect ground deformation and the gravity field today. Thus understanding glacial isostatic adjustment is important in monitoring recent global warming.\n\nOne of the possible impacts of global warming-triggered rebound may be more volcanic activity in previously ice-capped areas such as Iceland and Greenland. It may also trigger intraplate earthquakes near the ice margins of Greenland and Antarctica.\n\nThe speed and amount of postglacial rebound is determined by two factors: the viscosity or rheology (i.e., the flow) of the mantle, and the ice loading and unloading histories on the surface of Earth.\n\nThe viscosity of the mantle is important in understanding mantle convection, plate tectonics, dynamical processes in Earth, the thermal state and thermal evolution of Earth. However viscosity is difficult to observe because creep experiments of mantle rocks take thousands of years to observe and the ambient temperature and pressure conditions are not easy to attain for a long enough time. Thus, the observations of postglacial rebound provide a natural experiment to measure mantle rheology. Modelling of glacial isostatic adjustment addresses the question of how viscosity changes in the radial and lateral directions and whether the flow law is linear, nonlinear, or composite rheology.\n\nIce thickness histories are useful in the study of paleoclimatology, glaciology and paleo-oceanography. Ice thickness histories are traditionally deduced from the three types of information: First, the sea level data at stable sites far away from the centers of deglaciation give an estimate of how much water entered the oceans or equivalently how much ice was locked up at glacial maximum. Secondly, the location and dates of terminal moraines tell us the areal extent and retreat of past ice sheets. Physics of glaciers gives us the theoretical profile of ice sheets at equilibrium, it also says that the thickness and horizontal extent of equilibrium ice sheets are closely related to the basal condition of the ice sheets. Thus the volume of ice locked up is proportional to their instantaneous area. Finally, the heights of ancient beaches in the sea level data and observed land uplift rates (e.g. from GPS or VLBI) can be used to constrain local ice thickness. A popular ice model deduced this way is the ICE5G model. Because the response of the Earth to changes in ice height is slow, it cannot record rapid fluctuation or surges of ice sheets, thus the ice sheet profiles deduced this way only gives the \"average height\" over a thousand years or so.\n\nGlacial isostatic adjustment also plays an important role in understanding recent global warming and climate change.\n\nBefore the eighteenth century, it was thought, in Sweden, that sea levels were falling. On the initiative of Anders Celsius a number of marks were made in rock on different locations along the Swedish coast. In 1765 it was possible to conclude that it was not a lowering of sea levels but an uneven rise of land. In 1865 Thomas Jamieson came up with a theory that the rise of land was connected with the ice age that had been first discovered in 1837. The theory was accepted after investigations by Gerard De Geer of old shorelines in Scandinavia published in 1890.\n\nIn areas where the rising of land is seen, it is necessary to define the exact limits of property. In Finland, the \"new land\" is legally the property of the owner of the water area, not any land owners on the shore. Therefore, if the owner of the land wishes to build a pier over the \"new land\", they need the permission of the owner of the (former) water area. The landowner of the shore may redeem the new land at market price. Usually the owner of the water area is the partition unit of the landowners of the shores, a collective holding corporation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5669256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5669256", "title": "Principal meridian", "text": "Principal meridian\n\nA principal meridian is a meridian used for survey control in a large region.\n\nThe Dominion Land Survey of Western Canada took its origin at the First (or Principal) Meridian, located at 97°27′28.41″ west of Greenwich, just west of Winnipeg, Manitoba. This line is exactly ten miles west of the Red River at the Canada-United States border.\n\nSix other meridians were designated at four-degree intervals westward, with the seventh located in British Columbia; the second and fourth meridians form the general eastern border and the western border of Saskatchewan.\n\nIn the United States Public Land Survey System, a principal meridian is the principal north-south line used for survey control in a large region, and which divides townships between east and west. The meridian meets its corresponding baseline at the point of origin, or initial point, for the land survey. For example, the Mount Diablo Meridian, used for surveys in California and Nevada, runs north-south through the summit of Mount Diablo.\n\nOften, meridians are marked with roads, such as the Meridian Avenue in San Jose, California, Meridian Road in Vacaville, California, both on the Mount Diablo Meridian, Meridian Road in Wichita, Kansas on the Sixth Principal Meridian, and Meridian Avenue in several western Washington counties generally following the Willamette Meridian. Baseline Road or Base Line Street extends for about 40 miles from Highland, California east of San Bernardino to La Verne, California where it meets Foothill Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24515576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24515576", "title": "Republic of Salé", "text": "Republic of Salé\n\nThe Republic of Salé was a short-lived city state at Salé (modern Morocco), during the 17th Century. Located at the mouth of the Bou Regreg river, it was founded by Moriscos from the town of Hornachos, in Western Spain. Moriscos were the descendants of Muslims who were nominally converted to Christianity, and were subject to mass deportation during the Spanish Inquisition. The Republic's main commercial activities were the Barbary slave trade and piracy during its brief existence in the 17th century. The city is now part of the Kingdom of Morocco.\n\nThe republic traces its origins back to the beginning of the 17th century, with the arrival of approximately 3,000 wealthy Moriscos from Hornachos in western Spain, who anticipated the 1609 expulsion edicts ordered by Philip III of Spain. After 1609, approximately 10,000 down-and-out expelled Moriscos arrived from Spain. Cultural and language differences between the native Saletin people and the Morisco refugees led the newcomers to settle in the old Medina of Rabat, on the opposite bank of the Bou Regreg.\n\nPirates based on the western bank thrived and expanded their operations throughout the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean. In 1624, the Dutchman Jan Janszoon (also known as Murad Reis) became the \"Grand Admiral\" and President of the Corsair Republic of Salé.\n\nAfter Janszoon left Salé in 1627, the Moriscos ceased to recognize the authority of the Sultan Zidan al-Nasir, and refused to pay his tithe on their incomes. They proclaimed a Republic, ruled by a council or \"Diwan\", a sort of government cabinet formed by 12 to 14 notable people whose members annually elected a Governor and a \"Captain General of the Fortalesa\" during the month of May. In the early years of the republic (between 1627 and 1630), the \"Diwan\" was controlled only by Hornacheros, whose grip on power was resented by the growing population of non-Hornachero Moriscos, called Andalusians. After bloody clashes in 1630, an agreement was reached: the election of a \"Qaid\" by Andalusians and a new \"Diwan\" of 16 members of whom 8 Andalusians and 8 Hornacheros.\n\nIn 1641 the Zaouia of Dila, which controlled much of Morocco, imposed a religious hegemony over Salé and its parent republic. By the early 1660s the republic was embroiled in civil war with the zawiya, and eventually Sultan Al-Rashid of Morocco of the Alaouite dynasty, which still rules Morocco into the 21st century, seized Rabat and Salé, ending its independence. It ended up under the control of the Sultan of Morocco after 1668, when Moulay al Rashid finally vanquished the Dilaites.\n\nThe character Robinson Crusoe, in Daniel Defoe's novel of the same name, spends time in captivity of the local pirates and at last sails off to liberty from the mouth of the Salé river.\n\n"}
{"id": "1844153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844153", "title": "Richard Hartshorne", "text": "Richard Hartshorne\n\nRichard Hartshorne (December 12, 1899 – November 5, 1992) was a prominent American geographer, and professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who specialized in economic and political geography and the philosophy of geography. He is known in particular for his methodological work \"The Nature of Geography\", published in 1939.\n\nBorn in Kittanning, Pennsylvania, Hartshorne completed his undergraduate studies at Princeton University in 1920, and his doctorate at the University of Chicago in 1924\n\nHartshorne taught at the University of Minnesota from 1924 to 1940, and at the University of Wisconsin-Madison from 1945 to 1970. In the war-time interruption from 1941 to 1945 he established and ran the Geography Division in the branch of Research and Analysis of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS).\n\nHartshorne was president of the Association of American Geographers in 1949. The association gave him its top award in 1960. He was also awarded a Doctor of Laws (\"honoris causa\") from Clark University, April 17, 1971, and the Victoria medal from the Royal Geographical Society in 1984.\n\nHe died of cancer at his home in Madison, Wisconsin. Among his brothers was the prominent American philosopher Charles Hartshorne.\n\nHartshorne's 1939 book \"The Nature of Geography: A Critical Survey of Current Thought in the Light of the Past\", reflected his concern that geographers, as scientists and scholars, should familiarize themselves with, and take account of, past work in their field. The book itself became a standard in the field and remained in print for decades; the seventh edition was published in 2000.\n\nIn the 1950s Hartshorne was part of a key geographical debate over the nature of the subject. Fred K. Schaefer called for the adoption of the 'scientific method' and study of spatial laws and criticised the 'old method' promoted by Hartshorne as the 'Hartshornian orthodoxy'.\n\nHis 1970 book \"The Academic Citizen: Selected Statements by Richard Hartshorne\" with introduction and notes by Mark Hoyt Ingraham, contains various statements on academic issues, authored (in some cases, co-authored) by Hartshorne, from the late 1940s through the 1960s, his pre-emeritus years at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection\n\n"}
{"id": "22204585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22204585", "title": "River channel migration", "text": "River channel migration\n\nRiver channel migration is the geomorphological process that involves the lateral migration of an alluvial river channel across its floodplain. This process is mainly driven by the combination of bank erosion of and point bar deposition over time. When referring to river channel migration, it is typically in reference to meandering streams. In braided streams, channel change is driven by sediment transport.\n\nAs flow enters the bank of an alluvial river, the centrifugal force created by the bend instigates helicoidal flow, a corkscrew like pattern of flow, which drives the hydraulic action acting on the opposing bank. This is where the primary process in river channel migration of bank erosion occurs. Often the bank is undercut, another result of the helicoidal flow, which leads to the creation of cut banks. Factors that limit the rate of bank erosion include the rate of deposition of the point bar, stream power, and the critical shear stress of the stream bed.\n\nThe sediment taken from the bank during the process of bank erosion is deposited on the opposing side of the channel fueling the process called point bar deposition. The helicoidal flow also plays a role in this process by acting as a cross channel component that moves the sediment to the other side. The processes of point bar deposition and bank erosion are intertwined and in most cases the erosion rate of cut banks is equal to the deposition rate of point bars. In addition, point bars act as topographic obstructions once formed that further drive flow into the opposite bank, creating a positive feedback loop. This leads to the meanders of an alluvial river becoming more well defined over time.\n\nTypical features found in river channel migration are point bars, cut banks, meanders, floodplains, and oxbow lakes.\n\nTechniques used for measuring river channel migration vary among different time scales. Over long time scales, sedimentological evidence, botanical evidence, and historical sources are utilized. Over intermediate time scales, planimetric resurveying and repeated cross profiting are utilized. Over short time scales, terrestrial photogrammetry and erosion pins are utilized.\n\nIn order to model river channel migrations over time, orthogonal functions of erosion path lines can be generated for individual point bar complexes. The orthogonal functions can be used to directly indicate the paths that channels could take in lateral migrations. The modeling of meander patterns can be useful in a variety of physical applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "21001145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21001145", "title": "San Roque, Saipan", "text": "San Roque, Saipan\n\nSan Roque is a settlement in Saipan, in the Northern Mariana Islands. It is located to the north of Tanapag on the island's northwest coast, close to the point where the barrier reef protecting the Tanapag Harbor joins to the island. It is connected to Tanapag by the Marpi Road (Highway 30), which runs the length of the northwestern coast.\n\nCommonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System operates local public schools. Gregorio T. Camacho Elementary School is located in San Roque. It opened as the San Roque Elementary School in 1951 and was renamed after the first commissioner of San Roque, Gregorio T. Camacho. Camacho served as the president of the school's parent-teacher association.\n"}
{"id": "14632285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14632285", "title": "Shaman-Gora", "text": "Shaman-Gora\n\nShaman-Gora () is an archeological site on the outskirts of the village of Duty in Khiloksky District of Zabaykalsky Krai. It is famous for its about 100 petroglyphs dating from 4000–1000 BCE. It is thought to be a ritual site for the local tribes. There are two main strata and their artifacts show that there was a highly developed society in the region at the confluence of the Duty River and Arey Rivers.\n"}
{"id": "20973110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20973110", "title": "Sinapalo", "text": "Sinapalo\n\nSinapalo or Sinapalu is a village on the island of Rota in the Northern Mariana Islands. The village is the largest settlement on the island (followed by Songsong, in the southwest), it is located south of the island's airport, Rota International Airport, close to the centre of the island.\nCommonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System\n"}
{"id": "1338919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338919", "title": "Superbia (DC Comics)", "text": "Superbia (DC Comics)\n\nSuperbia was a mobile city-state in DC Comics continuity. It initially floated above the radioactive ruins of Montevideo, Uruguay, which was destroyed by a villain called Vandal Savage. For several years, it is the home of the Ultramarine Corps, superheroes who were started by the corrupt United States military officer General Wade Eiling. After recovering from Eiling's manipulations, the Corp struck out on their own in concert with former members of the Global Guardians and any other heroes who wished to join them.\n\nThe city was subsequently destroyed in Africa during the course of a takeover by Gorilla Grodd, Nebula Man and elements of the Sheeda. It crashed into the already ravaged city Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, destroying much of it. Many Superbian citizens were slain, at least one was eaten by Grodd.\nSuperbia made an appearance in issue 4 of \"Final Crisis\", where it served as Watchtower 5 of the global resistance against Darkseid. It was shown under attack by the justifiers, with Warmaker stating that \"Superbia is falling! ... International Ultramarine Corps Headquarters is going down!\" Its subsequent destruction was not shown, only implied.\n"}
{"id": "31521300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31521300", "title": "Survey of Israel", "text": "Survey of Israel\n\nSurvey of Israel - SOI (Hebrew: מפ\"י - המרכז למיפוי ישראל) is the survey and mapping department of the Israeli Ministry of Housing and Construction. \n\nThe British Mandate established the country's first survey department in 1920. In 1930, a building was erected to house the department at the southern end of a 30-acre plot near the German Templar cemetery in Tel Aviv. During World War II, it was used by the British Army. \nToday, the main office of the Survey of Israel is located in Tel Aviv with branches in Jerusalem, Be'er Sheva, Haifa and Nazareth.\n\nThe Survey of Israel is the government agency for Mapping, Geodesy, Cadastre and Geoinformatics. The Survey is responsible for the national infrastructure in these areas as well as for a number of official functions.\n\nIn the field of geodesy, the Survey operates as the National Geodetic Institute, adopting the reference ellipsoid, developing and maintaining the geodetic control network, defining the national datum, both horizontal and vertical and establishing an appropriate projection with accompanying mapping equations and transformations, for applications in mapping, cadastre and geoinformatics. \n\nIn the realm of cadastre the Survey leads activities leading to land registration (Land Surveys Department). The registration of rights to land is based on Torrens principles, which in effect provides a state guarantee of the rights registered. The Survey is responsible for defining boundaries of blocks and parcels in terms of coordinates and plans. All these procedures are anchored by Survey Ordinances. \n95% of the country's area has undergone the settlement process. All this area is subdivided into approximately 15,000 blocks and 800,000 parcels. The Survey deals every year with the continuation of settlement and also with new subdivision (re-parcellation) which express mutation in rights to land or its use, or both.\n\nThe Survey of Israel is the National Mapping Agency, responsible for defining mapping products required, with a special attention to construction infrastructures, security and emergency services, environmental protection, tourism and research and development. \nThese tasks require the establishment of standards, coordinate networks including specifications for map projections, accuracy standards, practice of toponymy and symbology. \nThe standard map series at the present is the 1:50,000, from which the 1:100,000 series is derived. The present editions of these series were produced by analogical methods and revised by digital methods. In addition, a number of 1:25,000 maps have been produced, all based on the National GIS digital data files, managed by the Survey. It would be appropriate to say that all map series are in the stage of transition to a digital cartographic process. Additional products worth mentioning are town plans and the Atlas of Israel being produced with the cooperation of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. \n\nThe topic of geoinformatics has been entrusted to the Survey by government decisions of 1990 and 1993, meaning that the Survey is responsible for the National GIS databank, including a uniform set of codes to ensure compatibility and an interministerial forum which is a platform for discussion and formulation of policy. \nThe National GIS includes a topographic data bank, derived from aerial photographs at the scale 1:40,000 and periodically revised. The data bank consists of 10 data layers with appropriate codes. There is also a cadastral data bank, based on cadastral maps and plans. It is used to supply information and to manage cadastral operations, but it has no legal standing equal to the original documents. In addition, there is a bank of addresses, in larger population centers, managed in cooperation with the National Census Bureau.\n\nThe Israeli Spatial data infrastructure. ISPRS 2010 at: http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/4_8_2-W9/papers/final_232_ISPRS_SFB_030810-srebro-Felus-.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "77332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77332", "title": "Syr Darya", "text": "Syr Darya\n\nThe Syr Darya is a river in Central Asia. It originates in the Tian Shan Mountains in Kyrgyzstan and eastern Uzbekistan and flows for west and north-west through Uzbekistan and southern Kazakhstan to the northern remnants of the Aral Sea. It is the northern and eastern of the two main rivers in the endorrheic basin of the Aral Sea, the other being the Amu Darya. In the Soviet era, extensive irrigation projects were constructed around both rivers, diverting their water into farmland and causing, during the post-Soviet era, the virtual disappearance of the Aral Sea, once the world's fourth-largest lake.\n\nThe second part of the name (\"Darya\" دریا) means \"sea\" in Persian. The current name dates only from the 18th century.\n\nThe earliest recorded name was \"Jaxartes\" or \"Iaxartes\" () in Ancient Greek, found in several sources, including those relating to Alexander the Great. The Greek name hearkens back to the Old Persian name \"Yakhsha Arta\" (\"True Pearl\"), perhaps a reference to the color of its glacially-fed water. More evidence for the Persian etymology comes from the river's Turkic name up to the time of the Arab conquest, the \"Yinchu\", or \"Pearl river\".\n\nFollowing the Muslim conquest, the river appears in the sources uniformly as the \"Seyhun\" (سيحون), one of the four rivers flowing from the Paradise (Jannah in Arabic).\n\nThe current local name of the river, \"Syr\" (\"Sïr\"), does not appear before the 16th century. In the 17th century, Abu al-Ghazi Bahadur Khan, historian and ruler of Khiva, called the Aral Sea the \"Sea of Sïr,\" or \"Sïr Tengizi\".\n\nThe river rises in two headstreams in the Tian Shan Mountains in Kyrgyzstan and eastern Uzbekistan—the Naryn River and the Kara Darya which come together in the Uzbek part of the Fergana Valley—and flows for some west and north-west through Uzbekistan and southern Kazakhstan to the remains of the Aral Sea. The Syr Darya drains an area of over , but no more than actually contribute significant flow to the river: indeed, two of the largest rivers in its basin, the Talas and the Chu, dry up before reaching it. Its annual flow is a very modest per year—half that of its sister river, the Amu Darya.\n\nAlong its course, the Syr Darya irrigates the most productive cotton-growing region in the whole of Central Asia, together with the towns of Kokand, Khujand, Kyzylorda and Turkestan.\n\nVarious local governments throughout history have built and maintained an extensive system of canals. These canals are of central importance in this arid region. Many fell into disuse in the 17th and early 18th century, but the Khanate of Kokand rebuilt many in the 19th century, primarily along the Upper and Middle Syr Darya.\n\nMassive expansion of irrigation canals in Middle and Lower Syr Darya during the Soviet period to water cotton and rice fields caused ecological damage to the area. The amount of water taken from the river was such that in some periods of the year, no water at all reaches the Aral Sea, similar to the Amu Darya situation in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.\n\nHistory of the central steppe introduces the history of the lands along and north of the Syr Darya. During the era of Alexander the Great, the Syr Darya marked the northernmost limit of Hellenic conquests and also the site of a famous battle, the Battle of Jaxartes. It was on the shores of the Syr Darya that Alexander placed a garrison in the City of Cyrus (Cyropolis in Greek), which he then renamed after himself Alexandria Eschate – \"the farthest Alexandria\"—in 329 BC. For most of its history since at least the Muslim Conquest of Central Asia, the name of this city has been Khujand (in Tajikistan).\n\nDuring the Russian conquest of Turkestan in the middle 19th century, the Russian Empire introduced steam navigation to the Syr Darya, with an important river port at Kazalinsk (Kazaly) from 1847 to 1882, when service ceased.\n\nDuring the Soviet Era, a resource-sharing system was instated in which Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan shared water originating from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers with Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan in summer. In return, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan received Kazakh, Turkmen, and Uzbek coal, gas, and electricity in winter. After the fall of the Soviet Union this system disintegrated and the Central Asian nations have failed to reinstate it. Inadequate infrastructure, poor water management, and outdated irrigation methods all exacerbate the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "12764859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12764859", "title": "Telephone numbers in Denmark", "text": "Telephone numbers in Denmark\n\nDenmark generally uses an eight digit closed telephone numbering plan. Subscriber numbers are portable with respect to provider and geography, i.e. fixed line numbers can be ported to any physical address in Denmark.\n\nThe Kingdom of Denmark also includes two autonomous regions, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, they are assigned each their own country calling code and are using different numbering plans.\n\nSplit charge is not generally used in Denmark anymore; calls to 70 numbers are usually charged as regular landline calls. A few exceptions do exist, e.g., 70 10 11 55 (the TDC speaking clock service).\n\n"}
{"id": "10419768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10419768", "title": "The Professional Geographer", "text": "The Professional Geographer\n\nThe Professional Geographer is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal publishing short articles on all aspects of geography. The journal is published by Taylor and Francis on behalf of the American Association of Geographers. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.407, ranking it 29th out of 77 journals in the category \"Geography\".\n\nEvery year, the journal publishes a special section with papers that were finalists for the J. Warren Nystrom Award, given to the best paper based upon a recent dissertation in geography. \n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "3683254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683254", "title": "Thomas E. Ross", "text": "Thomas E. Ross\n\nThomas E. Ross, Ph.D. b. 1942 is a retired professor of geography at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke. Educated at Marshall University (BA in 1968 and MS in 1969) he gained his Ph.D. in geography from University of Tennessee at Knoxville in 1977. He is an internationally recognized authority on Carolina bays, having written the definitive bibliography of bays (Carolina Bays: An Annotated Bibliography. Carolinas Press. ) In addition to his widely praised research on the bays, Ross has written books on American Indians, including \"American Indians: A Cultural Geography\" and \"American Indians in North Carolina: Geographic Interpretations\". He is a native of West Virginia and currently resides in Southern Pines, NC.\n"}
{"id": "1704601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704601", "title": "Tisvildeleje", "text": "Tisvildeleje\n\nTisvildeleje is the village and coastal part of the area known as Tisvilde located in on the north coast of the island Zealand (Sjælland) in Denmark 60 km/40miles north of Copenhagen in the municipal of Helsinge.\n\nTo the West, Tisvildeleje is bordered by the protected plantation of Tisvilde Hegn [hegn=fence], which is Denmark’s fifth largest forest. The beaches of Tisvildeleje, are known for their white sands and soft dunes.\n\nThe name \"Tisvilde\" is derived from \"Ti's vælde\", meaning \"a place dedicated to the God Tyr\". Where the church of Tibirke Kirke is situated nowadays, there was once a prehistoric “vi” meaning a holy place or place of sacrifice. In prehistoric times, humans were sacrificed here. At the foot of the church, is a spring which may have been a place of pilgrimage in days of old. \"Leje\" roughly translates as \"plain\" and used to be a fishermans village. Now most of the fishermen's houses, are used as summer residences.\nHelene Spring in Tisvildeleje is located close to the sea and is among Denmark’s most famous springs. Legend has it, that anyone whose illness has not responded successfully to other forms of treatment, must come to the spring on 23 June, Sankt Hans or Midsummer's Eve. \"Draw the amount of water you expect to drink in the course of the night and then direct your steps towards Helene’s grave; stretched out there, drink of the mystic health-giving water, and when the morning light has finally dawned afresh, you will be cured of your ills.\" Helene's Tomb is now a rectangular, grazed area surrounded by low stone fences. The two boulders leaning against each other indicate Helene's Tomb. It is located at Sankt Helenevej, 3220 Tisvildeleje.\n\n"}
{"id": "11536390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11536390", "title": "Valsesia", "text": "Valsesia\n\nValsesia (; Walser German: \"Tseschrutol\"; ) is a group of valleys in the north-east of Piedmont in the Province of Vercelli, Italy; the principal valley is that of the river Sesia.\n\nThe major towns located here are Varallo Sesia, Borgosesia and Serravalle Sesia; tourist villages include Alagna Valsesia, Rima San Giuseppe, Carcoforo and Scopello. While the valley mainly belongs to the province of Vercelli three of its \"comuni\", namely Romagnano Sesia, Prato Sesia and Grignasco, are part of the province of Novara.\n\nSummits that surround the valley include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56825482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56825482", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of French Polynesia", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of French Polynesia\n\nFrench Polynesia requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are European standard 520 mm × 110 mm, and use French stamping dies. The overseas departments and territories of France have three-digit codes, starting with 97, which was originally the single code for them all.\n"}
{"id": "52956305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52956305", "title": "Water Knows No Boundaries conference", "text": "Water Knows No Boundaries conference\n\nThe Water Knows No Boundaries was held in 2011 and will be held again in 2018, in Jordan. The topic is solutions to water issues in the Middle East.\n"}
