{"id": "25031651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25031651", "title": "AIDS Information Centre", "text": "AIDS Information Centre\n\nAIDS Information Centre-Uganda (AIC) is a Non-Governmental Organization in Uganda established in 1990 to provide Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) for Human Immune Deficiency Virus (HIV). The Organization was founded as a result of growing demand from people who wanted to know their HIV status. At this time the HIV/AIDS in Uganda was high.\n\nAIC currently offers HIV counselling and testing services through 8 branches of Kampala, Jinja, Mbale, Mbarara, Arua, Lira, Soroti and Kabale, selected hospitals, health centres, and antenatal clinics. AIC also conducts HCT outreaches to communities and institutions targeting the Most-at risk populations. AIC supported the Uganda Ministry of Health to extend HCT services nearer to the communities by supporting HCT in 33 districts in Uganda with over 200 district health facilities benefiting.\n\nBy December 2010 AIC had served over 2,959,193 clients. The number keeps growing and for the last 3 years over 300,000 clients annually are being served using the different approaches for HCT.\n\nTo consolidate its HIV counselling and Testing services in the country, AIC has adopted a new vision as ‘Universal knowledge of HIV status in Uganda’ and its mission as ‘to provide HIV and AIDS information and quality HCT services’ and this will be through to 2015.\n\nAIC is now a membership organisation, with a functional Board of Trustees (BOT), 8 Branch Advisory Committees (BACs) and just over 3000 members all over Uganda. Headed by the Executive Director, AIC now employs 140 full-time staff that include Managers, coordinators, supervisors, medical and no medical counselors and medical officers and support staff.\n\nAIC has a wide range of stakeholders with whom it works including government ministries, development partners and other agencies involved in HIV and AIDS work. Major stakeholders include Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Department for International Development (DFID), European Union (EU), Ministry of Health (MoH), Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC), the AIDS Support Organization (TASO), District Local Governments among others.\n\nAIC uses a multi-faceted approach in order to increase accessibility and HCT utilisation \nClient initiated HCT is provided at the 8 AIC stand alone branches and outreaches. Targeted outreaches for the Most At Risk Populations (MARPs) are also conducted for these hard to reach populations that included commercial sex workers, Long Distance Truck Drivers and their clients, Fishing communities and Institutions of Higher learning. Commercial sex workers access HCT services during the peak hours of service delivery in order to benefit their clients. The truck drivers with their \"service providers\" are also another target group that AIC serves during evenings and nights at their transit stations. This HCT service delivery strategy is now referred to as the \"Moonlight HCT services\". \nFor distant areas with difficult terrain, the community camping strategy is used. This is where HCT service providers camp in a community and provide services from the community for several days. This strategy is cost effective in terms of fuel, wear and tear and ensured service delivery to all potential clients. This strategy also promotes community involvement as mobilisation is done through the existing community structures. \nHCT is also offered to pregnant women both at the branches and at the supported health units where HCT is offered to all pregnant women as part of their routine ante-natal medical check up.\n\nHIV Counseling and Testing (HCT) service are offered daily (even on Sundays and public holidays on appointments) at an affordable user fee in AIC main branches. Free HCT is also provided to children and youth below 24 years of age and Most At Risk Population.\nAIC is currently the largest single Non-governmental Organisation (NGO) HCT service provider in the country contributing at least 26 -30% of the total number of individuals tested for HIV in the country in any a given year.\n\nAIC contributes to the goal of the National Strategic Plan in care and treatment by offering Palliative Care Basic –Health Care (PCBHC). PCBHC includes psychosocial support, screening for and treatment of opportunistic infections (including Tuberculosis), as well as the provision of the basic health care package. The basic health care package includes prevention of malaria, respiratory and central nervous system diseases among PLHAs.\n\nClients that are HIV positive are encouraged to live positively. This is provided by counselors to clients during one on one session or in Post Test clubs.\n\nAIC is guided by the National Policy guidelines for TB/HIV collaborative activities in Uganda. The overall goal of the policy is to decrease the burden of tuberculosis and HIV in Uganda through improved TB and HIV collaborative interventions. AIC employs a screening tool developed in collaboration with Centres for Disease Control and prevention (CDC) to screen HIV positive clients for TB This is done in the 8 branches of AIC and the supported sites\n\nAIC screens and treats sexually transmitted infections like syphilis and Herpes simplex type II and other opportunistic infections like skin infections, pneumonias and others in all its eight branches. Among the integrated services offered are education and counseling on Reproductive health issues for the HIV positive and offering of Family Planning (FP) suitable to individual circumstances and choice.\n\nHIV positive clients receives basic care packages consisting of mosquito nets, water guard chemical and a safe water vessel, condoms, Septrin for prophylaxis and reading material on psychosocial counseling to all HIV positive clients. This Package helps in prevention of malaria, respiratory, central nervous system diseases among PLHAs. This was achieved through partnership with PSI.\n\nA daily dose of Cotrimoxazole has been proven to prolong life (25-50% decrease in mortality) and reduce the incidence of malaria, diarrhoea, toxoplasmosis, certain respiratory infections, blood infections (Septicaemia) and other illnesses affecting PLHA.\n\nAIC started offering this service in 2004 at AIC Kampala but has now expanded to cover all the 8 branches.The service is offered to the all HIV positive clients after VCT and are able to pay the user fee for the CD4/CD8+ count, any client with evidence of a positive HIV test and referral document from a recognized centre and clients already on ARVS with referral for monitoring.\n\nAIC being the pioneer HCT organization in Uganda, and with over 20 years of work, AIC is well placed to play a leading role in driving or influencing policy and practice in the area of HCT. AIC has made deliberate efforts to promote its corporate image among its clients, development partners and central government agencies.\n\nAIC conducts operational research to generate answers to emerging questions and provide evidence-based data on HCT. Through its research and documentation activities with its partners, AIC has supported to the public to access evidence-based information on HCT and its related services through various channels, including the print materials, radio, video, the resource centre and website.\n\nAIC trains HIV/AIDS Counselors, Trainer of Trainers, Counselor supervisors, Laboratory technicians, Data entrants, Voluntary counseling and testing promoters, and People living with HIV/AIDS who have accepted to go public. AIC provides training within and outside Uganda in HCT; HIV prevention, care, adherence, and support.\n\nAIC provides specially designed HCT to meet the special needs of young people, aged 12 to 24 free of charge with same day results. This followed a study conducted to identify opportunities and barriers for providing VCT to youth. With trained peer counselors, a private waiting room and lab, the environment is youth friendly, satisfying the need for privacy. Youth can also access all other AIC services including referral to youth friendly service organizations. AIC also provides HCT for children below age 12. To date AIC has established seven youth corners at seven AIC branches.\n\nAIC has continued to contribute towards the national efforts to fight the drivers of the epidemic. Appropriate messages are delivered depending on the nature of the client and community.\n\nAbstinence messages encourage young clients to abstain or delay their sex debut. The messages delivered give the client the advantages of abstaining, and give role models in society who abstained and have been successful in their lives. AIC delivers abstinence messages to young people in and out of school through educational talks, music and drama outreaches and HIV counseling sessions at HCT service delivery sites.\n\nRecent studies indicate an escalating HIV prevalence among people who are currently married or cohabiting and those that have ever been married. Statistics from the AIC database corroborate these findings. AIC uses community dialogues, music and drama and HIV counseling in the provision of \"Be faithful\" messages to the target audience who are sexually active clients.\n\nThe need for promotion of correct and consistent use of condoms remains vital because majority of high risk populations (MARPS) do not know the correct use of the condoms while those that know, do not use them consistently. Condoms are distributed through PTC condom distribution outlets, AIC branch offices and other targeted points such as bars and lodges.\n\nThe Uganda Demographic and Health Survey (UDHS), 2006 indicated that although most people had some knowledge about HIV only about 30 percent of women and 40 percent of men had comprehensive knowledge. In order to bridge this gap and increase comprehensive knowledge about HIV and to increase access to care and support for clients who have tested HIV positive, AIC established the Know Your HIV Status Clubs at parish level in 9 districts of Uganda in 2010.\n\nA Know Your HIV Status Club (KYHSC) is an association of 20 members at parish level who have been selected by the community to pass on messages to households on HIV and AIDS prevention and care. These members are drawn from the existing district structures such as Village Health Teams, Community Resource Persons, PHA Network Support Agents, Post Test Club members and other structures. The major role of the twenty members is to disseminate information on comprehensive HIV and AIDS prevention package at household level.\n\nThe AIC Post Test Club (PTC) was established on August 4, 1990, in support of the national effort to prevent further spread of HIV and AIDS and to provide psychosocial support to those infected and affected by HIV. The purpose of the club is to respond to the expressed needs of the clients for ongoing support services. The major objective is to offer on-going psychosocial support to the members irrespective of their HIV status. All the eight AIC regional centres have PTC’s and over 20 district based PTCs in Uganda are supported .\n\nThe services range from on-going support counseling, educational talks, condom promotion, community mobilization to distribution of Information Education Communication (IEC) materials among others.\n\nIn the recent past, AIC realized that the cases of HIV discordance among couples were on the rise. HIV test results showed that at least 8% of all couples tested have one HIV positive while the other is negative. The Couple Club support couples socially and psychologically, enabling them cope with denial, avoid blame, or violence. At the Discordant Couple Club, AIC provide: Ongoing psychosocial support; continuous education to prevent the infection of the HIV negative partner; peer psychosocial support groups through sharing experiences; promote positive living and provide education on treatment options. We also impart income generation skills for many of the clients.\n\nThe PLI was established in September 1991 through the collaborative efforts of TASO, World Learning Inc., AIC and UNICEF. PLI was formed after the death of the renowned Ugandan musician Philly Lutaaya Bongole the first Ugandan to publicly declare that he was infected with HIV. The objective of the PLI was to bring the reality of HIV and AIDS to the general affected communities and to demonstrate that people living with HIV and AIDS (PHAs) can lead a healthy and productive life.\n"}
{"id": "56425454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56425454", "title": "Abortion in Barbados", "text": "Abortion in Barbados\n\nAbortion in Barbados is legal when performed to save the life of the woman, to preserve her physical or mental health, in cases of foetal impairment, when the pregnancy was caused by rape or incest, and for economic or social reasons. In 1983, Babardos passed the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, and abortion was made legal, other than upon request without a physician's oversight. Prior to 12 weeks gestation, the woman must get approval from a physician to receive abortion care. Between 12 and 20 weeks, two physicians must approve, and three are required after 20 weeks. Before getting the medical procedure, the woman is required to receive counseling. A medical practitioner must perform the abortion services, and after 12 weeks, they must do so in a government-approved hospital.\n\nIn 1983, the Barbados parliament passed the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, decriminalizing abortion and giving women access to legal and safe abortion care. Billie Miller, the first woman to serve as minister of health in Barbados, campaigned for seven years to encourage her colleagues to decriminalize medical care for women. Passage of this new law made Barbados the first English-speaking country in the Caribbean to decriminalize abortion. \n\nIn the 25 years following this act, the maternal mortality rate decreased by 53%, turning the country into a leader on women's health.\n"}
{"id": "24387271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24387271", "title": "Alcohol and breast cancer", "text": "Alcohol and breast cancer\n\nThe relationship between alcohol and breast cancer is clear: drinking alcoholic beverages, including wine, beer, or liquor, is a risk factor for breast cancer, as well as some other forms of cancer. Drinking alcohol causes more than 100,000 cases of breast cancer worldwide every year.\n\nThe International Agency for Research on Cancer has declared that there is sufficient scientific evidence to classify alcoholic beverages a Group 1 carcinogen that causes breast cancer in women. Group 1 carcinogens are the substances with the clearest scientific evidence that they cause cancer, such as smoking tobacco.\n\nA woman drinking an average of two units of alcohol per day has 8% higher risk of developing breast cancer than a woman who drinks an average of one unit of alcohol per day. Even light consumption of alcohol – one to three drinks per week – increases the risk of breast cancer.\n\nHeavy drinkers are also more likely to die from breast cancer than non-drinkers and light drinkers. Also, the more alcohol a woman consumes, the more likely she is to be diagnosed with a recurrence after initial treatment.\n\nThe mechanisms of increased breast cancer risk by alcohol are not clear, and may be:\n\nTheir magnitude likely depends on the amount of alcohol consumed.\n\nSusceptibility to the breast cancer risk of alcohol may also be increased by other dietary factors, (e.g. folate deficiency), lifestyle habits (including use of hormone replacement therapy), or biological characteristics (e.g. as hormone receptor expression in tumor cells).\n\nStudies suggest that drinking alcohol during pregnancy may affect the likelihood of breast cancer in daughters. \"For women who are pregnant, ingestion of alcohol, even in moderation, may lead to elevated circulating oestradiol levels, either through a reduction of melatonin or some other mechanism. This may then affect the developing mammary tissue such that the lifetime risk of breast cancer is raised in their daughters.\"\n\nLight drinking is one to three alcoholic drinks per week, and moderate drinking is about one drink per day. Both light and moderate drinking is associated with a higher risk of being diagnosed with breast cancer. However, the increased risk caused by light drinking is small compared to heavy drinking.\n\nDrinking or not drinking alcohol does not solely determine whether breast cancer will recur after treatment. However, the more a woman drinks, the more likely the cancer is to recur.\n\nIn men, breast cancer is rare, with an incidence of fewer than one case per 100,000 men. Population studies have returned mixed results about excessive consumption of alcohol as a risk factor. One study suggests that alcohol consumption may increase risk at a rate of 16% per 10g daily alcohol consumption. Others have shown no effect at all, though these studies had small populations of alcoholics.\n\nWorldwide, alcohol consumption causes approximately 144,000 women to be diagnosed with breast cancer each year. Approximately 38,000 women die from alcohol-induced breast cancer each year. About 80% of these women were heavy or moderate drinkers.\n\n"}
{"id": "50273911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50273911", "title": "Byways and Bridleways Trust", "text": "Byways and Bridleways Trust\n\nThe Byways and Bridleways Trust (BBT) is a charity (registered number 280214 in 1980) which exists to protect bridleways and byways in England and Wales.\nIt is a prescribed consultee for proposed changes or effects on public rights of way (minor highways) made under the Highways Act 1980, Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 and Town and Country Planning Act 1990. As such, the Trust responds to consultations from government, government agencies, local authorities and potential applicants for planning permission and changes to public rights of way. The Trust takes the opportunity where presented to respond to Parliamentary calls for evidence such as on the Marine Bill\nThe Trust's aim is:\n\n\"To protect, preserve, maintain, secure, improve and develop public rights of way for the benefit of the public at large, so that the conditions of life may be improved, in particular by taking steps to ensure high standards of surveying and recording on definitive maps and any other public records of public rights of way over byways open to all traffic, roads used as public paths, unmetalled carriageways, green lanes, drove roads, driftways and bridleways in England and Wales.\"\n\nThe Definitive Map and Statement is the legally conclusive record of public rights of way maintained by highway authorities as required by Section 27 of the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "56085014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56085014", "title": "Cannabis in Ghana", "text": "Cannabis in Ghana\n\nCannabis in Ghana is illegal without license from the Minister of Health, but the nation is, along with Nigeria, among the top illicit cannabis-producing countries of West Africa. Cannabis in Ghana is known as wee or devil's tobacco.\n\nThere are two main theories as to how cannabis came to Ghana:\n\nThe first report of illegal cannabis cultivation in Ghana occurred in 1960.\n\nCannabis remains the most popular illegal drug in Ghana. Ghana is reported as the highest cannabis-using nation in Africa, and third in the world.\n\nIn the 1990s, cannabis which had previously been an urban phenomenon in bars and nightclubs, had spread to rural areas as well. Cannabis was associated with youth involved in Rastafari culture, and with students who believed cannabis use would improve their ability to study.\n\nCannabis from Ghana is transported to other countries in western Africa, as well as to Europe.\n"}
{"id": "29935597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29935597", "title": "Capital punishment in Peru", "text": "Capital punishment in Peru\n\nCapital punishment in Peru was last used in 1979. In the same year, the death penalty was abolished for ordinary crimes.\n\nCapital punishment is currently legal only during times of international or civil war, with several restrictions. Death sentences during this time are allowed for specific crimes, and may only be imposed by military courts during states of war. Execution is carried out by a firing squad and is permitted for six specific crimes (if committed during wartime): \n\n\nThe national Constitution allows reinstating the death penalty for peacetime terrorism. In early 2007, President Alan García proposed that the death penalty be restored for this crime, but the bill was rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "43265399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43265399", "title": "Cellucor", "text": "Cellucor\n\nCellucor is a sports nutrition brand from the nutritional life sciences company Nutrabolt, which is headquartered in Bryan, Texas in the United States. Cellucor was brought to market in 2002. Cellucor’s main product line, the Cellular Chrome Series, includes various pre-, intra- and post workout supplements, including the brand’s pre-workout, C4 Extreme. Cellucor also offers products through its COR-Performance Series, which includes its whey protein product.\n\nDuring 2012, Cellucor announced that it would release a number of new supplements. These included a thermogenic, Super-HD, and a weight loss supplement, CLK. The brand also unveiled its COR-Performance Series in 2012. The COR-Performance Series include as ingredients branched chain amino acids, creatine, and protein.\n\nAt the end of the year, Cellucor also announced that it would be focusing on developing its COR-Performance Whey in a variety of flavors for the protein market.\n\nDuring 2013, Cellucor had several product launches including the re-launch of its mass building supplement M5 Extreme, called M5 Reloaded.\n\nCellucor also re-launched its anabolic supplement, P6 Black, a re-formulation of the original.\n\nThe brand released Alpha Amino later in 2013, which is an amino acid drink.\n\nCellucor supplies a large variety of products that are encouraged to be used before, during, and after working out.\n\nAlpha Aminos: made with a mix of 14 amino acids. Flavors include watermelon, blue raspberry, lemon lime, and fruit punch.\n\nC4: a pre-workout supplement, for before workouts. There are many variations of C4 such as 50x and Ripped. Flavors include Icy Blue Razz, Strawberry Margarita, and Orange Dreamsicle. \n\nCOR-Performance Creatine: a creatine product with the flavors Granny Smith Apple and Blue Raspberry.\n\nCOR-Performance Whey: Cellucor's spin on whey product. Flavors include Peanut Butter Marshmallow, Strawberry Milkshake, and Cinnamon Swirl.\n\nThe Cellucor brand sponsors a number of athletes including Mat Fraser, Jen Jewell, Brooke Wells, Craig Capurso, Rob Niter, Karina Baymiller and Calum von Moger.\n"}
{"id": "38896255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38896255", "title": "Central Highlands Water", "text": "Central Highlands Water\n\nCentral Highlands Water is a regional water corporation in central Victoria, Australia, focused around the city of Ballarat and surrounding towns.\n\nIts purpose is the provision of high quality drinking water, sewerage, trade waste and recycled water services. It was formerly known as the Central Highlands Region Water Authority, and is one of 19 state-owned water businesses operating under the guidance of the Victorian Water Act.\n"}
{"id": "20633370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20633370", "title": "Connected health", "text": "Connected health\n\nConnected health is a socio-technical model for healthcare management and delivery by using technology to provide healthcare services remotely. Connected health, also known as technology enabled care (TEC) aims to maximize healthcare resources and provide increased, flexible opportunities for consumers to engage with clinicians and better self-manage their care. It uses readily available consumer technologies to deliver patient care outside of the hospital or doctor's office. Connected health encompasses programs in telehealth, remote care (such as home care) and disease and lifestyle management, often leverages existing technologies such as connected devices using cellular networks and is associated with efforts to improve chronic care.\n\nThe United States and European Union are two dominant markets for the use of connected health in home care service, in part due to the high availability of telephone and Internet service as compared to other parts of the world.\nProponents of connected health believe that technology can transform healthcare delivery and address inefficiencies especially in the area of work flow management, chronic disease management and patient compliance of the US and global healthcare systems.\n\nConnected health has its roots in telemedicine, and its more recent relative, telehealth. The first telemedicine programs were primarily undertaken to address healthcare access and/or provider shortages. Connected health is distinguished from telemedicine by:\n\n\nThere is no standard, accepted definition of connected health. On a broader note, connected health is the \"umbrella term arrived to lessen the confusion over the definitions of telemedicine, telehealth and mhealth\". It is considered as the new lexicon for the term telemedicine. The technology view of connected health focuses more on the connection methods between clients and the health care professional.\n\nAn alternative view is that of a socio-technical perspective in which connected health is considered as a combination of people, processes and technology. In 2015 Connected health was defined as patient-centred care resulting from process-driven health care delivery undertaken by health care professionals, patients and/or carer who are supported by the use of technology (software and/or hardware).\n\nTwo \"core platforms\" are emphasized in connected health, self-care and remote care, with programs primarily focused on monitoring and feedback for the chronically ill, elderly, and those patients located at an untenable distance from primary or specialty providers. Programs designed to improve patient-provider communication within an individual medical practice for example, the use of email to communicate with patients between office visits also fall within the purview of connected health. There are also lifestyle coaching programs, in which an individual receives healthcare information to facilitate behavior change to improve their fitness and/or general well being, (see wellness) or to reduce or eliminate the impact of a particular behavior that presents a risk to their health status. Some of the most common types of connected health programs in operation today include:\n\n\nThe Center for Connected Health is implementing a range of programs in high-risk, chronic and remotely located populations.\n\nInherent in the concept of connected health is flexibility in terms of technological approaches to care delivery and specific program objectives. For instance, remote monitoring programs might use a combination of cell phone and smart phone technology, online communications or biosensors and may aim to increase patient-provider communication, involve patients in their care through regular feedback, or improve upon a health outcome measure in a defined patient population or individual. Digital pen technology, global positioning, videoconferencing and environmental sensors are all playing a role in connected health.\n\nProponents of Connected health view it as a critical component of change in human healthcare and envision:\n\n\nRising costs, increases in chronic diseases, geographic dispersion of families, growing provider shortages, ethnic disparities in care, better survival rates among patients fighting serious diseases, an aging U.S. population and longer lifespan are all factors pointing to a need for better ways of delivering healthcare.\n\nDirect-to-consumer advertising is a demonstrated contributor to the rise in consumer demand, as is the mass availability of inexpensive technology and ubiquity of the Internet, cell phones and PDAs. Connected health experts such as Joseph C. Kvedar, believe that consumer engagement in healthcare is on its way to becoming a major force for change.\n\nIn summary, connected health has arisen from: 1) a desire on the part of individual physicians and healthcare organizations to provide better access, quality and efficiency of care 2) dynamics of the healthcare economy (such as rising costs and changing demographics) 3) consumerism in health care and a drive towards patient centric healthcare. Together, these factors are providing impetus for connected healthcare in the United States and many other industrialised nations and forcing innovation both from within and outside the system.\n\nWhile connected health is yet emerging, there is evidence of its benefit. For example, in a program being implemented by the Center for Connected Health and Partners Home Care, over 500 heart failure patients have now been monitored remotely through the collection of vital signs, including heart rate, blood pressure and weight, using simple devices in the patient's home. The information is sent daily to a home health nurse, who can identify early warning signs, notify the patient's primary care physician, and intervene to avert potential health crises. A pilot of this program demonstrated reduced hospitalizations. Another initiative at the Center for Connected Health uses cellular telephone technology and a \"smart\" pill bottle to detect when a patient has not taken their scheduled medication. A signal is then sent that lights up an ambient orb device in the patient's home to remind them to take their medication.\n\nIt appears that connected health programs are operated and funded primarily by home care agencies and large healthcare systems. However, insurers and employers are increasingly interested in connected health for its potential to reduce direct and indirect healthcare costs.In 2007, EMC Corporation launched the first employer-sponsored connected health program, in the beta phase of implementation, aimed at improving outcomes and cost of care for patients with high blood pressure.\n\nGovernment agencies involved in connected health include:\n\n\nPersonal health records, or PHRS, (see personal health record) – are essentially medical records controlled and maintained by the healthcare consumer. PHRs intersect with connected health in that they attempt to increase the involvement of healthcare consumers in their care. By contrast, electronic medical records (EMRs) (see electronic medical record) are digital medical records or medical records systems maintained by hospitals or medical practices and are not part of connected health delivery.\n\n"}
{"id": "20357983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357983", "title": "Copper toxicity", "text": "Copper toxicity\n\nCopper toxicity, also called copperiedus, is a type of metal poisoning caused by an excess of copper in the body. Copperiedus can occur from eating acidic foods cooked in uncoated copper cookware, or from exposure to excess copper in drinking water or other environmental sources.\n\nICD-9-CM code 985.8 \"Toxic effect of other specified metals\" includes acute & chronic copper poisoning (or other toxic effect) whether intentional, accidental, industrial etc.\n\nAcute symptoms of copper poisoning by ingestion include vomiting, hematemesis (vomiting of blood), hypotension (low blood pressure), melena (black \"tarry\" feces), coma, jaundice (yellowish pigmentation of the skin), and gastrointestinal distress. Individuals with glucose-6-phosphate deficiency may be at increased risk of hematologic effects of copper. Hemolytic anemia resulting from the treatment of burns with copper compounds is infrequent.\n\nChronic (long-term) copper exposure can damage the liver and kidneys. Mammals have efficient mechanisms to regulate copper stores such that they are generally protected from excess dietary copper levels.\n\nThose same protection mechanisms can cause milder symptoms, which are often misdiagnosed as psychiatric disorders. There is a lot of research on the function of the Cu/Zn ratio in neurological, endocrinological, and psychological conditions. Many of the substances that protect us from excess copper perform important functions in our neurological and endocrine systems, leading to diagnostic difficulties. When they are used to bind copper in the plasma, to prevent it from being absorbed in the tissues, their own function may go unfulfilled. Such symptoms often include mood swings, irritability, depression, fatigue, excitation, difficulty focusing, and feeling out of control. To further complicate diagnosis, some symptoms of excess copper are similar to those of a copper deficit.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) in drinking water is 1.3 milligrams per liter. The MCL for copper is based on the expectation that a lifetime of consuming copper in water at this level is without adverse effect (gastrointestinal). The US EPA lists copper as a micronutrient and a toxin. Toxicity in mammals includes a wide range of animals and effects such as liver cirrhosis, necrosis in kidneys and the brain, gastrointestinal distress, lesions, low blood pressure, and fetal mortality. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set a limit of 0.1 mg/m for copper fumes (vapor generated from heating copper) and 1 mg/m for copper dusts (fine metallic copper particles) and mists (aerosol of soluble copper) in workroom air during an eight-hour work shift, 40-hour work week. Toxicity to other species of plants and animals is noted to varying levels.\n\nCopper in the blood and blood stream exists in two forms: bound to ceruloplasmin (85–95%), and the rest \"free\", loosely bound to albumin and small molecules. Nutritionally, there is a distinct difference between organic and inorganic copper, according to whether the copper ion is bound to an organic ligand.\nThe EPA lists no evidence for human cancer incidence connected with copper, and lists animal evidence linking copper to cancer as \"inadequate\". Two studies in mice have shown no increased incidence of cancer. One of these used regular injections of copper compounds, including cupric oxide. One study of two strains of mice fed copper compounds found a varying increased incidence of reticulum cell sarcoma in males of one strain, but not the other (there was a slightly increased incidence in females of both strains). These results have not been repeated.\n\nIn cases of suspected copper poisoning, penicillamine is the drug of choice, and dimercaprol, a heavy metal chelating agent, is often administered. Vinegar is not recommended to be given, as it assists in solubilizing insoluble copper salts. The inflammatory symptoms are to be treated on general principles, as are the nervous ones.\n\nThere is some evidence that alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) may work as a milder chelator of tissue-bound copper. Alpha lipoic acid is also being researched for chelating other heavy metals, such as mercury.\n\nCookware in which copper is the main structural element (as opposed to copper clad, copper sandwiched or copper colored) is sometimes manufactured without a lining when intended to be used for any of a number of specific culinary tasks, such as preparing preserves or meringues. Otherwise, copper cookware is lined with a non-reactive metal to prevent contact between acidic foods and the structural copper element of the cookware.\n\nExcepting for acute or chronic conditions, exposure to copper in cooking is generally considered harmless. Following Paracelsus, dosage makes the poison; as this pertains to copper \"a defense mechanism has apparently evolved as a consequence of which toxicity in man is very unusual.\"\n\nAcute exposure and attendant copper toxicity is possible when cooking or storing highly acidic foods in unlined copper vessels for extended periods, or by exposing foodstuffs to reactive copper salts (copper corrosion, or verdigris). Continuous, small (\"chronic\") exposures of acidic foods to copper may also result in toxicity in cases where either surface area interaction potentials are significant, pH is exceptionally low and concentrated (in the case of cooking with, for example, vinegar or wine), or both, and insufficient time elapses between exposures for normal homeostatic elimination of excess copper.\n\nExceptions to the above may be observed in the case of jam, jelly and preserve -making, wherein unlined copper vessels are used to cook (not to store) acidic preparations, in this case of fruit. Methods of jamming and preserving specify sugar as chemically necessary to the preserving (antibacterial) action, which has the additional effect of mediating (buffering) the interaction of fruit acid with copper, permitting the use of the metal for its efficient thermal transfer properties.\n\nOSHA has set safety standards for grinding and sharpening copper and copper alloy tools, which are often used in nonsparking applications. These standards are recorded in the Code of Federal Regulations 29 CFR 1910.134 and 1910.1000.\n\nNote: The most important nonsparking copper alloy is beryllium copper, and can lead to beryllium poisoning.\n\nWith an of 30 mg/kg in rats, \"gram quantities\" of copper sulfate are potentially lethal in humans. The suggested safe level of copper in drinking water for humans varies depending on the source, but tends to be pegged at 2.0 mg/l.\n\nEstrogen birth control pills may increase the amount of copper in humans, but was not shown to increase absorption. Copper Intrauterine devices (IUDs) have been questioned anecdotally, with people claiming copper toxicity, but there is currently no scientific evidence to substantiate this claim. Estrogen increases the absorption of copper, making women more likely to carry excess copper even when no birth control is used.\n\nThe amount of estrogen (or copper) contained in these modern forms of contraception are generally considered safe, and the former restrictions for estrogen use (not to be used by women older than 40, 35 for smokers) were lifted in 1989.\n\nThere are conditions in which an individual's copper metabolism is compromised to such an extent that birth control may cause an issue with copper accumulation. They include toxicity or just increased copper from other sources, as well as the increased copper level of the individual's mother via the placenta before birth. The two hormones commonly used in birth control, estrogen and progestin, protect from each other's complications, so a combination method may work best. At least when existing imbalances have been treated.\n\nA significant portion of the toxicity of copper comes from its ability to accept and donate single electrons as it changes oxidation state. This catalyzes the production of very reactive radical ions, such as hydroxyl radical in a manner similar to Fenton chemistry. This catalytic activity of copper is used by the enzymes with which it is associated, thus is only toxic when unsequestered and unmediated. This increase in unmediated reactive radicals is generally termed oxidative stress, and is an active area of research in a variety of diseases where copper may play an important but more subtle role than in acute toxicity.\n\nSome of the effects of aging may be associated with excess copper.\n\nOne manifestation of copper toxicity, cirrhosis of the liver in children (Indian childhood cirrhosis), has been linked to boiling milk in copper cookware. The Merck Manual states recent studies suggest that a genetic defect is associated with this particular cirrhosis.\n\nAn inherited condition called Wilson's disease causes the body to retain copper, since it is not excreted by the liver into the bile. This disease, if untreated, can lead to brain and liver damage, and bis-choline tetrathiomolybdate is under investigation as a therapy against Wilson's disease. \n\nElevated free copper levels exist in Alzheimer's disease, which has been hypothesized to be linked to inorganic copper consumption. Copper and zinc are known to bind to amyloid beta proteins in Alzheimer's disease. This bound form is thought to mediate the production of reactive oxygen species in the brain.\n\nToo much copper in water may damage marine and freshwater organisms such as fish and molluscs. Fish species vary in their sensitivity to copper, with the LD50 for 96-h exposure to copper sulphate reported to be in the order of 58 mg per litre for Tilapia (\"Oreochromis niloticus\") and 70 mg per litre for catfish (\"Clarias gariepinus\") The chronic effect of sublethal concentrations of copper on fish and other creatures is damage to gills, liver, kidneys and the nervous system. It also interferes with the sense of smell in fish, thus preventing them from choosing good mates or finding their way to mating areas.\n\nCopper-based paint is a common marine antifouling agent. In the United States, copper-based paint replaced tributyltin, which was banned due to its toxicity, as a way for boats to control organic growth on their hulls. In 2011, Washington state became the first U.S. state to ban the use of copper-based paint for boating, although it only applied to recreational boats. California has also pursued initiatives to reduce the effect of copper leaching, with the U.S. EPA pursuing research.\n\nCopper and copper alloys such as brass have been found to be toxic to bacteria via the oligodynamic effect. The exact mechanism of action is unknown, but common to other heavy metals. Viruses are less susceptible to this effect than bacteria. Associated applications include the use of brass doorknobs in hospitals, which have been found to self-disinfect after eight hours, and mineral sanitizers, in which copper can act as an algicide. Overuse of copper sulfate as an algicide has been speculated to have caused a copper poisoning epidemic on Great Palm Island in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "16188681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16188681", "title": "Donald Harvey", "text": "Donald Harvey\n\nDonald Harvey (April 15, 1952 – March 30, 2017) was an American serial killer and orderly who claimed to have murdered 87 people, though official estimates are between 37 and 57 victims. Harvey said he started out killing to \"ease the pain\" of patients. As time progressed, he began to enjoy it more and more and became a self-described \"angel of death\". Harvey was serving 28 life sentences at the Toledo Correctional Institution in Toledo, Ohio, having pleaded guilty to murder charges to avoid the death penalty.\n\nDonald Harvey worked around the medical profession from the age of 18. He began his career as an orderly at the Marymount Hospital in London, Kentucky. He later confessed that during the ten-month period he worked at the hospital, he killed at least a dozen patients. His second victim was killed in the room with Danny George, a twelve year old child. Harvey was insistent that he killed purely out of a sense of empathy for the sufferings of those who were terminally ill. He also admitted that many of the killings he committed were due to anger at the victim. Harvey kept his crimes from coming to light for over 17 years. \n\nThe true extent of his crimes may never be known since so many were undetected for so long. Harvey used many methods to kill his victims, such as arsenic; cyanide; insulin; suffocation; miscellaneous poisons; morphine; turning off ventilators; administration of fluid tainted with hepatitis B and/or HIV (which resulted in a hepatitis infection, but no HIV infection, and illness rather than death); insertion of a coat hanger into a catheter, causing an abdominal puncture and subsequent peritonitis. Cyanide and arsenic were his most used methods, with Harvey administering them via food, injection, or IV. The majority of Harvey's crimes took place at the Marymount Hospital (now St. Joseph's – London) in London, Kentucky, the Cincinnati V.A. Medical Hospital, and Cincinnati's Drake Memorial Hospital.\n\nHarvey did not limit his victims to helpless hospital patients. When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment. He poisoned two of his neighbors—sickening one, Diane Alexander, by putting hepatitis serum in her drink and killing the other, Helen Metzger, by putting arsenic in her pie. He also killed Hoeweler's father Henry with arsenic.\n\nHarvey was incarcerated in Toledo Correctional Institution, where he had been admitted on October 26, 1987. His first parole hearing was scheduled for April 2043. On March 28, 2017, authorities reported that Harvey had been found in his cell severely beaten. He died on March 30, 2017. His murderer is not known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8981286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8981286", "title": "Embrasure (dentistry)", "text": "Embrasure (dentistry)\n\nIn dentistry, embrasures are V-shaped valleys between adjacent teeth. They provide a spill way for food to escape during chewing which essentially aids in the self-cleansing process. They also prevent food from being forced through the contact area which might cause food packing and periodontal pain and permit a slight amount of stimulation to the gingiva.\n\nWhen two teeth in the same arch are in contact, their curvatures adjacent to the contact areas form spillway spaces which are called as embrasures.\n\n"}
{"id": "35236498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35236498", "title": "European Association of Libraries and Information Services on Addictions", "text": "European Association of Libraries and Information Services on Addictions\n\nThe European Association of Libraries and Information Services on Addictions (ELISAD) – previously called, until end of 2011, \"European Association of Libraries and Information Services on Alcohol and other Drugs\" – was a European non-governmental and non-profit making social network of libraries, documentation centres and information services situated in Europe and specialised in alcohol, drugs, tobacco and all other behavioural addictions.\n\nELISAD’s key purpose was to provide those working in the field of drug, alcohol, tobacco and other addictions information with a network for exchanging knowledge, ideas and sharing experiences.\n\nELISAD's tasks were:\n\n\nELISAD organises an annual conference each year on topics relevant to information, research and documentation and addictions. It provides a mailing list for members to exchange information about new books, meetings and other resources.\n\nFollowing meetings in 1988 Lyon, France and 1989 Stockholm, Sweden of European librarians, documentalists and information professionals working in drugs, alcohol, and tobacco, it was recognised that there was a need to set up an association to enable the exchange of experiences, skills and knowledge. Annual meetings were felt to be a way of meeting this need, with the formal establishment of Elisad in 1990. Jasper Woodcock, Head of the Institute for the Study of Drug Dependence, UK – that became DrugScope in 2000 – was elected as Elisad’s first President.\n\nMany existing library associations were models and encouraged the Elisad foundation:\n\n\nOver the years the annual conferences have covered many subjects. \nIn 1999, at the annual ELISAD meeting at the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) in Lisbon, presentations focused on the growth of information about addictions on the World Wide Web and raised concerns about the quality and accuracy of such resources. Presenters also found that their searches were producing thousands of results because addictions encompasses various research disciplines, including health, social sciences, medicine, law, politics, psychology, neurosciences, toxicology, and so on…\n\nIn 2000, at the annual meeting held in Prague, Czech Republic, ELISAD members issued their \"Ethical Charta\" to stress the fundamental importance of ethics in the field of drug information.\n\nIn 2002, at the annual meeting held in Bremen, Germany, given the national and international emphasis on provision and need for high quality and accurate information on drugs and other addictions, ELISAD members issued the \"Bremen Declaration\". This declaration supported the need for high quality information whilst drawing attention to the deterioration of financial support for specialist addiction libraries across Europe. A response from ELISAD on this was to consider how they could contribute to the need for high quality resources and this resulted in funding from the European Commission to develop an internet portal on addiction resources from 32 countries in Europe.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2005 members of ELISAD developed the internet portal on addictions. This online \"European Gateway on Alcohol, Drugs and Addictions\", provided descriptions of and links to evaluated European websites and other Internet resources on the use and misuse of drugs covering 32 countries.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007, a second development phase of the \"European Gateway\" was completed, again funded by the European Commission. The Gateway was updated and provides descriptions and links to more than 1100 evaluated websites on addictions, and is searchable in 17 languages. Visitors to the site can search for information on education and prevention, treatment, policy and research, find resources in their own countries or abroad and identify other European organisations of interest. The central challenge for this project was the language barrier within the different EU countries and considerable work was done on standardising the terminology among European countries and on the taxonomy used within this gateway.\n\nMore recent annual conferences have focused on how to address the problems many libraries and information services encounter due to the expansion of drug information on the Internet and the impact of finances being reduced. Their themes are :\nIn 2014 Elisad ceased existence and has joined with Substance Abuse Librarians and Information Specialists, an international association for those working in libraries and documentation centres on addictions and substance abuse.\n\n"}
{"id": "3151160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3151160", "title": "European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership", "text": "European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership\n\nThe European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership or EDCTP is a partnership between the European Union (EU), Norway, Switzerland and developing countries and other donors, as well as the pharmaceutical industry, to enable clinical trials and the development of new medicines and vaccines against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. The need for global action against these diseases in order to promote poverty reduction has been recognised by the United Nations, the G8, and the African Union, and the program envisioned the provision of €600 million for the period 2003-2007 in order to translate medical research results into clinical applications relevant to the needs of developing countries.\n\nThe European Council adopted the Programme for Action: Accelerated action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction (COM (2001)96, ) on 15 May 2001, following its launch by the European Commission. The Commission proposal was adopted on 16 June 2003 by the Council and the European Parliament. The Programme was to be based on three central pillars: \"...the impact of existing interventions, the affordability of key pharmaceuticals and trade, and the research and development of specific global public goods.\" These aims relate specifically with the EU stance on access to essential medicines. \n\nEDCTP-funded activities are based on:\n\n\nPartnerships among the EU and associated countries, allowing focused collaboration of national and European efforts that were not previously coordinated.\n\n\nPartnerships among EU and developing countries that focuses specifically on developing countries' needs, who are jointly involved in setting the research priorities.\n\n\nEfforts aimed at creating lasting long-term partnerships between African scientists and research institutions in Africa.\n\n\nAcceleration of the development of new or improved drugs, vaccines and microbicides against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, with a focus on phase II and III clinical trials in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n\nManifested as a general strengthening of clinical research capacity in Africa, including training activities, workshops and meetings, and the upgrading of clinical trial sites in Africa.\n\nThe total budget of the EDCTP is €600 million for the period 2003-2007, of which one third (€200 million) is to be provided by the EU budget, an equivalent amounts from Member States' activities, and the remaining €200 million from industry, charities, and private organisations. The Partnership is intended to be a long-term initiative (10–20 years) and a separate legal entity has been created to maintain its independence and flexibility.\n\nTaken together, clinical trials based in developing countries where the diseases are endemic, capacity building, and South-South networking are expected to make up over 90% of the overall budget. (figure).\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHigh representative - Pascoal Mocumbi\n\nExecutive director - Charles Mgone\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25152862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25152862", "title": "Fibre supplements", "text": "Fibre supplements\n\nFibre supplements (or fiber supplements) are considered to be a form of a subgroup of functional dietary fibre, and in the United States are defined by the Institute of Medicine (IOM). According to the IOM, functional fibre \"consists of isolated, non-digestible carbohydrates that have beneficial physiological effects in humans\".\n\nFibre supplements are widely available, and can be found in forms such as powders, tablets, and capsules. Consumption of fibre supplements may be for: improving dietary intake, lowering blood cholesterol, alleviating irritable bowel syndrome, reducing the risk of colon cancer, and increasing feelings of satiety.\n\nExcessive fibre intake can lead to fluid imbalance, dehydration, mineral deficiencies, nutrient and drug interactions, and other medical problems.\n\nThe American Dietetic Association recommends that the average adult consume 25 to 38 grams of dietary fibre per day. However, research has shown that the average American only consumes 14 to 15 grams per day. To reach the recommended amount of fibre, consumption of dietary fibre from foods (e.g. plants, vegetables, legumes, and grains) instead of supplements is preferred because they contain additional beneficial nutrients and non-nutritive components (e.g. antioxidants and phytoestrogens). Nevertheless, a fibre supplement may be needed to prevent constipation when food intake is low, which is the case among inactive elderly. A cereal bran such as psyllium seed husk, or a synthetic fiber such as methylcellulose is often used in this case.\n\nS=Soluble, I=Insoluble\nC=Capsule/Tablet, P=Powder\n\nFoods that are high in viscous fibres have been found to lower blood cholesterol by binding with bile acids. In order to compensate for this, cholesterol from the liver may be used to make more bile acids. The products of bacterial fermentation in the colon may also decrease the rate of cholesterol synthesis in the liver.\n\nHowever, research has produced mixed results with respect to whether fibre supplements are as effective as dietary fibre in reducing blood cholesterol. Two recent studies show nearly opposing results, using fibre-supplemented apple juice containing both the soluble pectin from apples and gum arabic. In the first study, the supplement-enriched juice had no discernible effect on the blood cholesterol levels of 110 hypercholesterolaemic men and women.\nIn the second study, the total and LDL-cholesterol levels of mildly hypercholesterolaemic men were lowered.\n\nIn another study, a dietary supplement consisting of both soluble fibre (guar gum, pectin) and insoluble fibre (soy fibre, pea fibre, corn bran) was found to reduce LDL-cholesterol for individuals that have mild to moderate hypercholesterolaemia without reducing HDL-cholesterol or increasing triglycerides.\n\nSupplements containing extracted insoluble fibre may have an effect on blood lipids that most resembles the effects of dietary fibre. In a more recent randomized, double blind clinical study of 58 hypercholesterolaemic volunteers, an extruded carob pulp preparation added to daily diet reduced total and LDL-cholesterol and improved the ratio of HDL:LDL cholesterol in all participants, and also showed a marked reduction in serum cholesterol in the women of the study.\n\nThe protective properties of dietary fibre against colorectal cancer are undisputed. However, fibre supplements do not seem to provide the same defensive effect. A study of 1429 men and women over six months showed that a high-fibre cereal (wheat bran) supplement had no protective effect on recurring colorectal adenomas. In addition, no significant improvement in the proportion or features of existing colorectal adenomas was observed.\n\nDiverticulitis is mainly attributed to the low fibre intake typical of the Western diet for which gradual increase dietary fibre over several weeks is common clinical solution. Fibre supplements are again much less effective. One study of 58 men and women with uncomplicated diverticulitis in a double-blind controlled trial concluded that common doses of wheat bran and a psyllium-derived supplement provided relief of constipation only, with no other observable effects.\n\nIrritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal ailment for which dietary soluble fibre is often prescribed as part of a therapeutic solution. As a supplement, partially hydrolysed guar gum (PHGG - completely soluble, fully fermentable) has been shown to be quite effective in clinical trials for decreasing IBS symptoms such as abdominal pain and generally improving quality of life for sufferers well beyond treatment. In addition, PHGG has been shown to have prebiotic properties by acidifying bowel contents and increasing gut microflora.\n\nAcacia senegal fiber (gum arabic - completely soluble, fully fermentable) has also been shown to have a prebiotic effect in the gut, significantly increasing Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli after 4 weeks of consumption. Acacia ferments very slowly in the gut, and due to its polymeric nature does not disturb osmotic pressure, so it has a good gastrointestinal tolerance (it has no sudden and painful release of gas, and the total gas production is much lower than with FOS, for instance) and does not present any side effects at dosages up to 50 grams per day. Particularly helpful for IBS is that Acacia senegal behaves as a regulator; it is able to reduce diarrhea and reduce constipation.\n\nDietary insoluble fiber has long been shown to exacerbate Irritable Bowel Syndrome symptoms.\n\nIt has been suggested that the refining of fibre-rich grains has contributed to the obesity epidemic of Western countries. Whole, dietary forms of fibre are more difficult to ingest and absorb than milled and refined food products. This is because dietary fibre may be able to displace available calories and nutrients, requires more time for chewing (thereby slowing intake rate and inducing satiety), and reduces the efficiency of absorption in the small intestine.\n\nSupplemental forms of fibre have been shown to potentially assist weight management by increasing satiety, decreasing the absorption rate of starches and sugars, and binding to lipids in the small intestine thereby reducing serum triglycerides and chylomicron.\n\nPowdered guar gum, a soluble fibre, was shown to be associated with a significantly lower energy intake in obese subjects who ingested a non-restricted diet over one week, when the same participants did not consume the fibre supplement.\n\nA similar reduction of energy intake through fibre supplementation was observed in another study. A dose of guar gum was administered to normal-weight and obese participants. A 10% reduction of energy was observed in the normal subjects, and a 30% reduction of energy for obese subjects.\nFibre supplementation has also been indicated to assist compliance to low-calorie diets, as indicated through decreased feelings of hunger and increased ratings of satiety. Other soluble fiber forms such as glucomannan have also been studied in relationship to blood sugar and fat digestion in obese patients.\n\nAbruptly adding elevated amounts of fibre to the diet too quickly can lead to intestinal gas, diarrhea, abdominal bloating, cramping, and constipation. It is therefore better to regulate and moderate daily fibre intake. If increased fibre intake is desired, gradually increasing the amount over a few days allows the natural bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract to adjust to the change. Drinking 1- 2 L of water every day can prevent some uncomfortable symptoms by making the stool soft and bulky.\n\nThe risk of intestinal obstruction from insoluble fiber in susceptible individuals, fluid imbalance leading to dehydration and mineral deficiencies may increase if more than 50 g of fibre is ingested per day. For this reason, individuals who decide to suddenly double or triple their fibre intake are often advised to double or triple their water intake. In addition, excessive intake of non-fermentable fibre (typically in supplemental form) may lead to mineral deficiencies by reducing the absorption or increasing the excretion of minerals, especially when mineral intake is too low or when mineral needs are increased such as during pregnancy, lactation, or adolescence.\n\nExcessive fibre intake can also contribute to nutrient and drug interactions. For example, antidepressant medications, diabetes medications, carbamazepine, cholesterol-lowering medications and penicillin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5111481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5111481", "title": "Food biodiversity", "text": "Food biodiversity\n\n'Food biodiversity' is defined as \"the diversity of plants, animals and other organisms used for food, covering the genetic resources within species, between species and provided by ecosystems.\" \n\nFood biodiversity can be considered from two main perspectives: production and consumption. From a consumption perspective, food biodiversity describes the diversity of foods in human diets and their contribution to dietary diversity, cultural identity and good nutrition. Production of food biodiversity looks at the thousands of food products, such as fruits, nuts, vegetables, meat and condiments sourced from agriculture and from the wild (e.g. forests, uncultivated fields, water bodies). Food biodiversity covers the diversity \"between species,\" for example different animal and crop species, including those considered neglected and underutilized species. Food biodiversity also comprises the diversity \"within species,\" for example different varieties of fruit and vegetables, or different breeds of animals. \n\nSince 1961, human diets across the world have become more diverse in the consumption of major commodity staple crops, with a corollary decline in consumption of local or regionally important crops, and thus have become more homogeneous globally. The differences between the foods eaten in different countries were reduced by 68% between 1961 and 2009. The modern \"global standard\" diet contains an increasingly large percentage of a relatively small number of major staple commodity crops, which have increased substantially in the share of the total food energy (calories), protein, fat, and food weight that they provide to the world's human population, including wheat, rice, sugar, maize, soybean (by +284%), palm oil (by +173%), and sunflower (by +246%). Whereas nations used to consume greater proportions of locally or regionally important crops, wheat has become a staple in over 97% of countries, with the other global staples showing similar dominance worldwide. Other crops have declined sharply over the same period, including rye, yam, sweet potato (by -45%), cassava (by -38%), coconut, sorghum (by -52%) and millets (by -45%).\n\nPromoting diversity of foods and species consumed in human diets in particular has potential co-benefits for public health as well as sustainable food systems perspective.\n\nFood biodiversity provides necessary nutrients for quality diets and is essential part of local food systems, cultures and food security. Promoting diversity of foods and species consumed in human diets in particular has potential co-benefits for sustainable food systems. Nutritionally, diversity in food is associated with higher micronutrient adequacy of diets. On average, per additional species consumed, mean adequacy of vitamin A, vitamin C, folate, calcium, iron, and zinc increased by 3%. From a conservation point of view, diets based on a wide variety of species place less pressure on single species.\n\nConservation and management of broad-based genetic diversity within the domesticated species have been improving agricultural production for 10,000 years. However, diverse natural populations have been providing food and other products for much longer. High biodiversity can maximize production levels, which are sustained through beneficial impact of ecosystem services for agricultural, modified and natural ecosystems. Conversely, reliance on a narrow portfolio of crops or crop varieties can jeopardize food production systems. This is illustrated by the Great Irish Potato Famine. Potatoes were introduced into Ireland from the New World in about 1600 and they became the major food source of most Irish people. The wind-borne Potato blight fungus spread throughout the country In 1845-1847 and caused almost complete failure of the potato crop. It is estimated that 1 million people died of starvation, cholera and typhoid.\n\nA wide range of biologically diverse populations in natural ecosystems and in / near agricultural ecosystems maintain essential ecological functions that are critical for the production of food. Such populations contribute positively to, for example, nutrient cycling, decomposition of organic matter, crusted or degraded soil rehabilitation, pest and disease regulation, water quality maintenance, and pollination. Maintaining species diversity, while building on and enhancing ecosystem functions, reduces external input requirements by increasing nutrient availability, improving water use and soil structure, and controlling pests.\n\nGenetic diversity within food species is a source of useful genes with a variety of benefits. For example:\n\n\n\n\nIn 2016, researchers linked the centers and primary regions of diversity (\"areas typically including the locations of the initial domestication of crops, encompassing the primary geographical zones of crop variation generated since that time, and containing relatively high species richness in crop wild relatives\") of food and agricultural crops with their current importance around the world in modern national food supplies and agricultural production. The results indicated that countries are highly interconnected with regard to primary regions of diversity of the crops they cultivate and/or consume. Foreign crops (crops entirely from regions of diversity outside the location of the country) were extensively used in food supplies (68.7% of national food supplies as a global mean were derived from foreign crops) and production systems (69.3% of crops grown were foreign). Foreign crop usage was shown to have increased significantly over the past 50 years, including in countries with high indigenous crop diversity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21853153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21853153", "title": "HIV Drug Resistance Database", "text": "HIV Drug Resistance Database\n\nHIV Drug Resistance Database, also known as \"Stanford HIV RT and Protease Sequence Database\" is a database at Stanford University that tracks 93 common mutations of HIV. It has been recompiled in 2008 listing 93 common mutations, after its initial mutation compilation in 2007 of 80 mutations. The latest list utilizes data from other laboratories in Europe, Canada and the United States including more than 15,000 sequences from untreated individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80381", "title": "Health", "text": "Health\n\nHealth, as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO), is \"a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.\" This definition has been subject to controversy, as it may have limited value for implementation. Health may be defined as the ability to adapt and manage physical, mental and social challenges throughout life. \n\nThe meaning of health has evolved over time. In keeping with the biomedical perspective, early definitions of health focused on the theme of the body's ability to function; health was seen as a state of normal function that could be disrupted from time to time by disease. An example of such a definition of health is: \"a state characterized by anatomic, physiologic, and psychological integrity; ability to perform personally valued family, work, and community roles; ability to deal with physical, biological, psychological, and social stress\". Then in 1948, in a radical departure from previous definitions, the World Health Organization (WHO) proposed a definition that aimed higher: linking health to well-being, in terms of \"physical, mental, and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease and infirmity\". Although this definition was welcomed by some as being innovative, it was also criticized as being vague, excessively broad and was not construed as measurable. For a long time, it was set aside as an impractical ideal and most discussions of health returned to the practicality of the biomedical model.\n\nJust as there was a shift from viewing disease as a state to thinking of it as a process, the same shift happened in definitions of health. Again, the WHO played a leading role when it fostered the development of the health promotion movement in the 1980s. This brought in a new conception of health, not as a state, but in dynamic terms of resiliency, in other words, as \"a resource for living\". 1984 WHO revised the definition of health defined it as \"the extent to which an individual or group is able to realize aspirations and satisfy needs and to change or cope with the environment. Health is a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living; it is a positive concept, emphasizing social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities\". Thus, health referred to the ability to maintain homeostasis and recover from insults. Mental, intellectual, emotional and social health referred to a person's ability to handle stress, to acquire skills, to maintain relationships, all of which form resources for resiliency and independent living. This opens up many possibilities for health to be taught, strengthened and learned. \n\nSince the late 1970s, the federal Healthy People Initiative has been a visible component of the United States’ approach to improving population health. In each decade, a new version of Healthy People is issued, featuring updated goals and identifying topic areas and quantifiable objectives for health improvement during the succeeding ten years, with assessment at that point of progress or lack thereof. Progress has been limited to many objectives, leading to concerns about the effectiveness of Healthy People in shaping outcomes in the context of a decentralized and uncoordinated US health system. Healthy People 2020 gives more prominence to health promotion and preventive approaches and adds a substantive focus on the importance of addressing social determinants of health. A new expanded digital interface facilitates use and dissemination rather than bulky printed books as produced in the past. The impact of these changes to Healthy People will be determined in the coming years.\n\nSystematic activities to prevent or cure health problems and promote good health in humans are undertaken by health care providers. Applications with regard to animal health are covered by the veterinary sciences. The term \"healthy\" is also widely used in the context of many types of non-living organizations and their impacts for the benefit of humans, such as in the sense of healthy communities, healthy cities or healthy environments. In addition to health care interventions and a person's surroundings, a number of other factors are known to influence the health status of individuals, including their background, lifestyle, and economic, social conditions and spirituality; these are referred to as \"determinants of health.\" Studies have shown that high levels of stress can affect human health.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the conceptualization of health as an ability opened the door for self-assessments to become the main indicators to judge the performance of efforts aimed at improving human health. It also created the opportunity for every person to feel healthy, even in the presence of multiple chronic diseases, or a terminal condition, and for the re-examination of determinants of health, away from the traditional approach that focuses on the reduction of the prevalence of diseases.\n\nGenerally, the context in which an individual lives is of great importance for both his health status and quality of their life. It is increasingly recognized that health is maintained and improved not only through the advancement and application of health science, but also through the efforts and intelligent lifestyle choices of the individual and society. According to the World Health Organization, the main determinants of health include the social and economic environment, the physical environment and the person's individual characteristics and behaviors.\n\nMore specifically, key factors that have been found to influence whether people are healthy or unhealthy include the following:\n\nAn increasing number of studies and reports from different organizations and contexts examine the linkages between health and different factors, including lifestyles, environments, health care organization and health policy, one specific health policy brought into many countries in recent years was the introduction of the sugar tax. Beverage taxes came into light with increasing concerns about obesity, particularly among youth. Sugar-sweetened beverages have become a target of anti-obesity initiatives with increasing evidence of their link to obesity.– such as the 1974 Lalonde report from Canada; the Alameda County Study in California; and the series of World Health Reports of the World Health Organization, which focuses on global health issues including access to health care and improving public health outcomes, especially in developing countries.\n\nThe concept of the \"health field,\" as distinct from medical care, emerged from the Lalonde report from Canada. The report identified three interdependent fields as key determinants of an individual's health. These are:\n\nThe maintenance and promotion of health is achieved through different combination of physical, mental, and social well-being, together sometimes referred to as the \"health triangle.\" The WHO's 1986 \"Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion\" further stated that health is not just a state, but also \"a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living. Health is a positive concept emphasizing social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities.\"\n\nFocusing more on lifestyle issues and their relationships with functional health, data from the Alameda County Study suggested that people can improve their health via exercise, enough sleep, maintaining a healthy body weight, limiting alcohol use, and avoiding smoking. Health and illness can co-exist, as even people with multiple chronic diseases or terminal illnesses can consider themselves healthy.\n\nThe environment is often cited as an important factor influencing the health status of individuals. This includes characteristics of the natural environment, the built environment and the social environment. Factors such as clean water and air, adequate housing, and safe communities and roads all have been found to contribute to good health, especially to the health of infants and children. Some studies have shown that a lack of neighborhood recreational spaces including natural environment leads to lower levels of personal satisfaction and higher levels of obesity, linked to lower overall health and well being. This suggests that the positive health benefits of natural space in urban neighborhoods should be taken into account in public policy and land use.\n\nGenetics, or inherited traits from parents, also play a role in determining the health status of individuals and populations. This can encompass both the predisposition to certain diseases and health conditions, as well as the habits and behaviors individuals develop through the lifestyle of their families. For example, genetics may play a role in the manner in which people cope with stress, either mental, emotional or physical. For example, obesity is a significant problem in the United States that contributes to bad mental health and causes stress in the lives of great numbers of people. (One difficulty is the issue raised by the debate over the relative strengths of genetics and other factors; interactions between genetics and environment may be of particular importance.)\n\nA number of types of health issues are common around the globe. Disease is one of the most common. According to GlobalIssues.org, approximately 36 million people die each year from non-communicable (not contagious) disease including cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and chronic lung disease (Shah, 2014).\n\nAmong communicable diseases, both viral and bacterial, AIDS/HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria are the most common, causing millions of deaths every year (Shah, 2014).\n\nAnother health issue that causes death or contributes to other health problems is malnutrition, especially among children. One of the groups malnutrition affects most is young children. Approximately 7.5 million children under the age of 5 die from malnutrition, usually brought on by not having the money to find or make food (Shah, 2014).\n\nBodily injuries are also a common health issue worldwide. These injuries, including broken bones, fractures, and burns can reduce a person's quality of life or can cause fatalities including infections that resulted from the injury or the severity injury in general (Moffett, 2013).\n\nLifestyle choices are contributing factors to poor health in many cases. These include smoking cigarettes, and can also include a poor diet, whether it is overeating or an overly constrictive diet. Inactivity can also contribute to health issues and also a lack of sleep, excessive alcohol consumption, and neglect of oral hygiene (Moffett2013).There are also genetic disorders that are inherited by the person and can vary in how much they affect the person and when they surface (Moffett, 2013).\n\nThough the majority of these health issues are preventable, a major contributor to global ill health is the fact that approximately 1 billion people lack access to health care systems (Shah, 2014). Arguably, the most common and harmful health issue is that a great many people do not have access to quality remedies.\n\nThe World Health Organization describes mental health as \"a state of well-being in which the individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to his or her community\". Mental Health is not just the absence of mental illness.\n\nMental illness is described as 'the spectrum of cognitive, emotional, and behavioral conditions that interfere with social and emotional well-being and the lives and productivity of people. Having a mental illness can seriously impair, temporarily or permanently, the mental functioning of a person. Other terms include: 'mental health problem', 'illness', 'disorder', 'dysfunction'.\n\nRoughly a quarter of all adults 18 and over in the US are considered diagnosable with mental illness. Mental illnesses are the leading cause of disability in the US and Canada. Examples include, schizophrenia, ADHD, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder and autism.\n\nMany teens suffer from mental health issues in response to the pressures of society and social problems they encounter. Some of the key mental health issues seen in teens are: depression, eating disorders, and drug abuse. There are many ways to prevent these health issues from occurring such as communicating well with a teen suffering from mental health issues. Mental health can be treated and be attentive to teens' behavior. \n\n Many factors contribute to mental health problems, including:\n\nAchieving and maintaining health is an ongoing process, shaped by both the evolution of health care knowledge and practices as well as personal strategies and organized interventions for staying healthy.\n\nAn important way to maintain your personal health is to have a healthy diet. A healthy diet includes a variety of plant-based and animal-based foods that provide nutrients to your body. Such nutrients give you energy and keep your body running. Nutrients help build and strengthen bones, muscles, and tendons and also regulate body processes (i.e. blood pressure). The food guide pyramid is a pyramid-shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections. Each section shows the recommended intake for each food group (i.e. Protein, Fat, Carbohydrates, and Sugars). Making healthy food choices is important because it can lower your risk of heart disease, developing some types of cancer, and it will contribute to maintaining a healthy weight.\n\nThe Mediterranean diet is commonly associated with health-promoting effects due to the fact that it contains some bioactive compounds like phenolic compounds, isoprenoids and alkaloids.\n\nPhysical exercise enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness. It strengthens muscles and improves the cardiovascular system. According to the National Institutes of Health, there are four types of exercise: endurance, strength, flexibility, and balance.\n\nSleep is an essential component to maintaining health. In children, sleep is also vital for growth and development. Ongoing sleep deprivation has been linked to an increased risk for some chronic health problems. In addition, sleep deprivation has been shown to correlate with both increased susceptibility to illness and slower recovery times from illness. In one study, people with chronic insufficient sleep, set as six hours of sleep a night or less, were found to be four times more likely to catch a cold compared to those who reported sleeping for seven hours or more a night. Due to the role of sleep in regulating metabolism, insufficient sleep may also play a role in weight gain or, conversely, in impeding weight loss. Additionally, in 2007, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is the cancer research agency for the World Health Organization, declared that \"shiftwork that involves circadian disruption is probably carcinogenic to humans,\" speaking to the dangers of long-term nighttime work due to its intrusion on sleep. In 2015, the National Sleep Foundation released updated recommendations for sleep duration requirements based on age and concluded that \"Individuals who habitually sleep outside the normal range may be exhibiting signs or symptoms of serious health problems or, if done volitionally, may be compromising their health and well-being.\"\n\nHealth science is the branch of science focused on health. There are two main approaches to health science: the study and research of the body and health-related issues to understand how humans (and animals) function, and the application of that knowledge to improve health and to prevent and cure diseases and other physical and mental impairments. The science builds on many sub-fields, including biology, biochemistry, physics, epidemiology, pharmacology, medical sociology. Applied health sciences endeavor to better understand and improve human health through applications in areas such as health education, biomedical engineering, biotechnology and public health.\n\nOrganized interventions to improve health based on the principles and procedures developed through the health sciences are provided by practitioners trained in medicine, nursing, nutrition, pharmacy, social work, psychology, occupational therapy, physical therapy and other health care professions. Clinical practitioners focus mainly on the health of individuals, while public health practitioners consider the overall health of communities and populations. Workplace wellness programs are increasingly adopted by companies for their value in improving the health and well-being of their employees, as are school health services in order to improve the health and well-being of children.\n\nPublic health has been described as \"the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life and promoting health through the organized efforts and informed choices of society, organizations, public and private, communities and individuals.\" It is concerned with threats to the overall health of a community based on population health analysis. The population in question can be as small as a handful of people or as large as all the inhabitants of several continents (for instance, in the case of a pandemic). Public health has many sub-fields, but typically includes the interdisciplinary categories of epidemiology, biostatistics and health services. Environmental health, community health, behavioral health, and occupational health are also important areas of public health.\n\nThe focus of public health interventions is to prevent and manage diseases, injuries and other health conditions through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behavior, communities, and (in aspects relevant to human health) environments. Its aim is to prevent health problems from happening or re-occurring by implementing educational programs, developing policies, administering services and conducting research. In many cases, treating a disease or controlling a pathogen can be vital to preventing it in others, such as during an outbreak. Vaccination programs and distribution of condoms to prevent the spread of communicable diseases are examples of common preventive public health measures, as are educational campaigns to promote vaccination and the use of condoms (including overcoming resistance to such).\n\nPublic health also takes various actions to limit the health disparities between different areas of the country and, in some cases, the continent or world. One issue is the access of individuals and communities to health care in terms of financial, geographical or socio-cultural constraints to accessing and using services. Applications of the public health system include the areas of maternal and child health, health services administration, emergency response, and prevention and control of infectious and chronic diseases.\n\nThe great positive impact of public health programs is widely acknowledged. Due in part to the policies and actions developed through public health, the 20th century registered a decrease in the mortality rates for infants and children and a continual increase in life expectancy in most parts of the world. For example, it is estimated that life expectancy has increased for Americans by thirty years since 1900, and worldwide by six years since 1990.\n\nPersonal health depends partially on the active, passive, and assisted cues people observe and adopt about their own health. These include personal actions for preventing or minimizing the effects of a disease, usually a chronic condition, through integrative care. They also include personal hygiene practices to prevent infection and illness, such as bathing and washing hands with soap; brushing and flossing teeth; storing, preparing and handling food safely; and many others. The information gleaned from personal observations of daily living – such as about sleep patterns, exercise behavior, nutritional intake and environmental features – may be used to inform personal decisions and actions (\"e.g.\", \"I feel tired in the morning so I am going to try sleeping on a different pillow\"), as well as clinical decisions and treatment plans (\"e.g.\", a patient who notices his or her shoes are tighter than usual may be having exacerbation of left-sided heart failure, and may require diuretic medication to reduce fluid overload).\n\nPersonal health also depends partially on the social structure of a person's life. The maintenance of strong social relationships, volunteering, and other social activities have been linked to positive mental health and also increased longevity. One American study among seniors over age 70, found that frequent volunteering was associated with reduced risk of dying compared with older persons who did not volunteer, regardless of physical health status. Another study from Singapore reported that volunteering retirees had significantly better cognitive performance scores, fewer depressive symptoms, and better mental well-being and life satisfaction than non-volunteering retirees.\n\nProlonged psychological stress may negatively impact health, and has been cited as a factor in cognitive impairment with aging, depressive illness, and expression of disease. Stress management is the application of methods to either reduce stress or increase tolerance to stress. Relaxation techniques are physical methods used to relieve stress. Psychological methods include cognitive therapy, meditation, and positive thinking, which work by reducing response to stress. Improving relevant skills, such as problem solving and time management skills, reduces uncertainty and builds confidence, which also reduces the reaction to stress-causing situations where those skills are applicable.\n\nIn addition to safety risks, many jobs also present risks of disease, illness and other long-term health problems. Among the most common occupational diseases are various forms of pneumoconiosis, including silicosis and coal worker's pneumoconiosis (black lung disease). Asthma is another respiratory illness that many workers are vulnerable to. Workers may also be vulnerable to skin diseases, including eczema, dermatitis, urticaria, sunburn, and skin cancer. Other occupational diseases of concern include carpal tunnel syndrome and lead poisoning.\n\nAs the number of service sector jobs has risen in developed countries, more and more jobs have become sedentary, presenting a different array of health problems than those associated with manufacturing and the primary sector. Contemporary problems, such as the growing rate of obesity and issues relating to stress and overwork in many countries, have further complicated the interaction between work and health.\n\nMany governments view occupational health as a social challenge and have formed public organizations to ensure the health and safety of workers. Examples of these include the British Health and Safety Executive and in the United States, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which conducts research on occupational health and safety, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which handles regulation and policy relating to worker safety and health.\n"}
{"id": "16539610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539610", "title": "Health in Bulgaria", "text": "Health in Bulgaria\n\nBulgaria had the third highest mortality in Europe, at 708 per 100,000 population in 2015. The four European regions with the highest death rates from diseases of the circulatory system were all in Bulgaria. \nIn the early 2000s, the major natural causes of death were cardiovascular disease (most commonly manifested in strokes), cancer, and respiratory illness. Bulgaria has had a very low incidence rate of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Although in 2003 the estimated rate of incidence was less than 0.1 percent of the population, in the early 2000s the number of new case reports increased annually. In 2005 some 86 new cases were reported, bringing the official total to about 600, and 58 new cases were reported in the first half of 2006. In 2010, there were 1,160 HIV-positive persons.\n\nAs a former satellite of the Soviet Union, Bulgaria used to have their health system: the Semashko model. This particular system is characterized by having a state monopoly, where there is centralized planning and financing of the health sphere. There were no private structures for providing health services. There were no health insurances; the system was funded directly from the state budget, paid for maintenance, universally accessible, and free for patients. \n\nBulgaria began overall reform of its antiquated health system, inherited from the communist era, only in 1999. In the 1990s, private medical practices expanded somewhat, but most Bulgarians relied on communist-era public clinics while paying high prices for special care. During that period, national health indicators generally worsened as economic crises substantially decreased health funding. \n\nThe subsequent health reform program has introduced mandatory employee health insurance through the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), which since 2000 has paid a gradually increasing portion of primary health care costs. Employees and employers pay an increasing, mandatory percentage of salaries, with the goal of gradually reducing state support of health care. Private health insurance plays only a supplementary role. The system also has been decentralized by making municipalities responsible for their own health care facilities, and by 2005 most primary care came from private physicians. Pharmaceutical distribution also was decentralized. According to the survey conducted by the Euro health consumer index in 2015 Bulgaria was among the European countries in which unofficial payments to doctors were reported most commonly. \n\nIn the early 2000s, the hospital system was reduced substantially to limit reliance on hospitals for routine care. Anticipated membership in the European Union (2007) was a major motivation for this trend. Between 2002 and 2003, the number of hospital beds was reduced by 56 percent to 24,300. However, the pace of reduction slowed in the early 2000s; in 2004 some 258 hospitals were in operation, compared with the estimated optimal number of 140. Between 2002 and 2004, health care expenditures in the national budget increased from 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent, with the NHIF accounting for more than 60 percent of annual expenditures.\n\nIn the 1990s, the quality of medical research and training decreased seriously because of low funding. In the early 2000s, the emphasis of medical and paramedical training, which was conducted in five medical schools, was preparation of primary-care personnel to overcome shortages resulting from the communist system’s long-term emphasis on training specialists. Experts considered that Bulgaria had an adequate supply of doctors but a shortage of other medical personnel. In 2000 Bulgaria had 3.4 doctors, 3.9 nurses, and 0.5 midwives per 1,000 population.\n"}
{"id": "33264130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33264130", "title": "Heterocyclic amine formation in meat", "text": "Heterocyclic amine formation in meat\n\nHeterocyclic amines are a group of chemical compounds, many of which can be formed during cooking. They are found in meats that are cooked to the \"well done\" stage, in pan drippings and in meat surfaces that show a brown or black crust. Epidemiological studies show associations between intakes of heterocyclic amines and cancers of the colon, rectum, breast, prostate, pancreas, lung, stomach/esophagus and animal feeding experiments support a causal relationship. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Public Health Service labeled several heterocyclic amines as likely carcinogens in its 13th \"Report on Carcinogens\". Changes in cooking techniques reduce the level of heterocyclic amines.\nMore than 20 compounds fall into the category of heterocyclic amines, often abbreviated HCAs. Table 1 shows the chemical name and abbreviation of those most commonly studied.\nAll four of these compounds are included in the 13th Report on Carcinogens.\n\nThe compounds found in food are formed when creatine (a non-protein amino acid found in muscle tissue), other amino acids and monosaccharides are heated together at high temperatures (125-300 C or 275-572 F) or cooked for long periods. HCAs form at the lower end of this range when the cooking time is long; at the higher end of the range, HCAs are formed within minutes.\n\nA review of 14 studies of HCA content in ground beef cooked under home conditions found in northern Europe and the U.S. found a range of values (Table 2). Because a standard U.S. serving of meat is 3 ounces, Table 2 includes a projection of the maximum amount of HCAs that could be found in a ground beef patty.\n\nMeat is a major component of American diets. Data from 1960 show the combined annual per capita consumption of beef, pork and chicken at 148 pounds; in 2004, that amount increased to 195 pounds a year. Ground beef made up 42% of the beef market in 2000. Beef consumption, particularly ground and processed beef, is highest in households with incomes at or below 130 percent of the poverty level.\n\nPatterns of beef intake by race/ethnicity show that non-Hispanic whites and Asians consumed the least amount of beef. Non-Hispanic African-Americans had the highest per capita intake of processed beef, ground beef and steaks compared to three other race/ethnicity groups.\n\nMore than half of beef purchased in the U.S. comes from retail stores and is prepared at home. Ground beef makes up the highest per capita intakes of beef both at home and away from home.\n\nGround beef consumption is highest among males age 12-19 who consume on average 50 pounds per year per capita. The 12-19 age group showed the highest consumption of ground beef for females, but the amount (28.5 lbs) is much lower than that of males.\n\nUS dietary exposure has been estimated at 1-17 ng/kg bodyweight per day. Table 3 shows the average daily lifetime consumption of HCAs for subgroups of the U.S. population. This analysis was based on the food intake data of 27215 people participating in the 1994 to 1996 Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals (CSFII) survey. Approximately 16 percent of HCA exposure came from hamburgers.\nAfrican American males had 50-100% higher intakes than white males and African American males consumed three times as many HCAs as white males (Table 4).\n\nHCA formation during cooking depends on the type of meat, cooking temperature, the degree of browning and the cooking time. Meats that are lower in fat and water content show higher concentrations of HCAs after cooking. More HCAs are formed when pan surface temperatures are higher than 220C (428F) such as with most frying or grilling. However, HCAs also form at lower temperatures when the cooking time is long, as in roasting. HCA concentrations are higher in browned or burned crusts that result from high temperature. The pan drippings and meat bits that remain after meat is fried have high concentrations of HCAs. Beef, chicken and fish have higher concentrations than pork. Sausages are high in fat and water and show lower concentrations.\n\nGround beef patties show lower levels of HCAs if they are flipped every minute until the target temperature is reached. Beef patties cooked while frozen show no difference in HCA levels compared to room-temperature patties.\n\nAfter scientists discovered the carcinogenic components in cigarette smoke, they questioned whether carcinogens could also be found in smoked/burned foods, such as meats. In 1977, cancer-causing compounds heterocyclic amines were discovered in food as a result of household cooking processes.\n\nThe most potent of the HCAs, MeIQ, is almost 24 times more carcinogenic than aflatoxin, a carcinogen produced by mold.\n\nMost of the 20 HCAs are more toxic than benzopyrene, a carcinogen found in cigarette smoke and coal tar. MeIQ, IQ and 8-MeIQx are the most potent mutagens according to the Ames test. These HCAs are 100 times more potent carcinogens than PhIP, the compound most commonly found as a result of normal cooking.\n\nHCAs contribute to the development of cancer by causing gene mutations, causing new cells to grow in an uncontrolled manner and form a tumor. Epidemiological studies linked consumption of well-done meats with increased risk of certain cancers, including cancer of the colon or rectum. A review of research articles on meat consumption and colon cancer estimated that red meat consumption contributed to 7 to 9% of colon cancer cases in European men and women.\n\nLong-term rat studies showed that PhIP causes cancer of the colon and mammary gland in rats. Female rats given doses of 0, 12.4, 25, 50, 100 or 200 ppm of PhIP showed a dose-dependent incidence of adenocarcinomas. The offspring of female rats exposed to PhIP while pregnant had a higher prevalence of adenocarcinomas than those whose mothers had not been exposed. This was true even for offspring who were not exposed to PhIP. PhIP was transferred from mothers to offspring in their milk.\n\nThe effects of HCAs and well-done cooked meat on humans are less well established. Meat consumption, especially of well-done meat and meat cooked at a high temperature, can be used as an indirect measure of exposure to HCAs. A review of all research studies reported between 1996 and 2007 that examined relationships between HCAs, meat and cancer. Twenty-two studies were found; of these, 18 showed a relationship between either meat intake or HCA exposure and some form of cancer. HCA exposure was measured in 10 of the studies and of those, 70% showed an association with cancer. The authors concluded that high intake of well-done meat and/or high exposure to certain HCAs may be associated with cancer of the colon, breast, prostate, pancreas, lung, stomach and esophagus.\n\nA recent study found that the relative risk for colorectal cancer increased at intakes >41.4 ng/day. Some evidence of increased relative risk occurred with intakes of MeIQx greater than or equal to 19.9 ng/day, but the trend was not as strong as for PhIP.\n\nRecent studies had mixed results, finding no relationship between dietary heterocyclic amines and lung cancer in women who had never smoked, no relationship between HCA intake and prostate cancer risk, but suggesting a positive association between red meat, PhIP and bladder cancer and increased risk of advanced prostate cancer with intakes of meat cooked at high temperatures.\n\nAlthough not all studies report an association between HCA and/or meat intake and cancers, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Public Health Service National Toxicology Program found sufficient evidence to label four HCAs as \"reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen\" in its twelfth \"Report on Carcinogens\", published in 2011. The HCA known as IQ was first listed in the tenth report in 2002. MeIQ, MeIQx and PhIP were added to the list of anticipated carcinogens in 2004. The \"Report on Carcinogens\" stated that MeIQ has been associated with rectal and colon cancer, MeIQx with lung cancer, IQ with breast cancer and PhIP with stomach and breast cancer. However, no current federal guidelines focus on the recommended consumption limit of HCA levels in meat.\n"}
{"id": "2701591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701591", "title": "History of alcoholic drinks", "text": "History of alcoholic drinks\n\nPurposeful production of alcoholic drinks is common and often reflects cultural and religious peculiarities as much as geographical and sociological conditions.\n\nDiscovery of late Stone Age jugs suggest that intentionally fermented beverages existed at least as early as the Neolithic period (c. 10000 BC).\n\nChemical analysis of jars from the neolithic village Jiahu in the Henan province of northern China revealed traces of alcohol that were absorbed and preserved. According to a study published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", chemical analysis of the residue confirmed that a fermented drink made of grapes, hawthorn berries, honey, and rice was being produced in 7000–6650 BC. The results of this analysis were published in December 2004. This is approximately the time when barley beer and grape wine were beginning to be made in the Middle East.\n\nThe earliest firm evidence of wine production dates back to 6000 BC in Georgia .\n\nEvidence of alcoholic beverages has also been found dating from 3150 BC in ancient Egypt, 3000 BC in Babylon, 2000 BC in pre-Hispanic Mexico, and 1500 BC in Sudan.\n\nThe medicinal use of alcohol was mentioned in Sumerian and Egyptian texts dating from about 2100 BC. The Hebrew Bible recommends giving alcoholic drinks to those who are dying or depressed, so that they can forget their misery (Proverbs 31:6-7). \n\nWine was consumed in Classical Greece at breakfast or at symposia, and in the 1st century BC it was part of the diet of most Roman citizens. Both the Greeks and the Romans generally drank diluted wine (the strength varying from 1 part wine and 1 part water, to 1 part wine and 4 parts water).\n\nIn Europe during the Middle Ages, beer, often of very low strength, was an everyday drink for all classes and ages of people. A document from that time mentions nuns having an allowance of six pints of ale each day. Cider and pomace wine were also widely available; grape wine was the prerogative of the higher classes.\n\nBy the time the Europeans reached the Americas in the 15th century, several native civilizations had developed alcoholic beverages. According to a post-conquest Aztec document, consumption of the local \"wine\" (\"pulque\") was generally restricted to religious ceremonies but was freely allowed to those who were older than 70 years.\n\nThe natives of South America produced a beer-like beverage from cassava or maize, which had to be chewed before fermentation in order to turn the starch into sugar. (Beverages of this kind are known today as \"cauim\" or \"chicha\".) This chewing technique was also used in ancient Japan to make sake from rice and other starchy crops.\n\nThe ability to metabolize alcohol likely predates humanity with primates eating fermenting fruit.\n\nIn 2018, the world's oldest brewery was found, with residue of 13,000-year-old beer, in a prehistoric cave near Haifa in Israel when researchers were looking for clues into what plant foods the Natufian people were eating. This is 8000 years earlier then experts had previously thought beer was invented.\n\nThe earliest evidence of wine was found in what is now China, where jars from Jiahu which date to about 7000 BC. This early rice wine was produced by fermenting rice, honey, and fruit. What later developed into Chinese civilization grew up along the more northerly Yellow River and fermented a kind of huangjiu from millet. The Zhou attached great importance to alcohol and ascribed the loss of the mandate of Heaven by the earlier Xia and Shang as largely due to their dissolute and alcoholic emperors. An edict ascribed to BC makes it clear that the use of alcohol in moderation was believed to be prescribed by heaven.\n\nUnlike the traditions in Europe and the Middle East, China abandoned the production of grape wine before the advent of writing and, under the Han, abandoned beer in favor of huangjiu and other forms of rice wine. These naturally fermented to a strength of about 20% ABV; they were usually consumed warmed and frequently flavored with additives as part of traditional Chinese medicine. They considered it spiritual food and extensive documentary evidence attests to the important role it played in religious life. \"In ancient times people always drank when holding a memorial ceremony, offering sacrifices to gods or their ancestors, pledging resolution before going into battle, celebrating victory, before feuding and official executions, for taking an oath of allegiance, while attending the ceremonies of birth, marriage, reunions, departures, death, and festival banquets.\" Marco Polo's 14th century record indicates grain and rice wine were drunk daily and were one of the treasury's biggest sources of income.\n\nAlcoholic beverages were widely used in all segments of Chinese society, were used as a source of inspiration, were important for hospitality, were considered an antidote for fatigue, and were sometimes misused. Laws against making wine were enacted and repealed forty-one times between 1100 BC and AD 1400. However, a commentator writing around 650 BC asserted that people \"will not do without beer. To prohibit it and secure total abstinence from it is beyond the power even of sages. Hence, therefore, we have warnings on the abuse of it.\"\n\nThe Chinese may have independently developed the process of distillation in the early centuries of the Common Era, during the Eastern Han dynasty.\n\nA major step forward in our understanding of Neolithic winemaking came from the analysis of a yellowish residue excavated by Mary M. Voigt at the site of Hajji Firuz Tepe in the northern Zagros Mountains of Iran. The jar that once contained wine, with a volume of about 9 liters (2.5 gallons) was found together with five similar jars embedded in the earthen floor along one wall of a \"kitchen\" of a Neolithic mudbrick building, dated to c. 5400-5000 BC. In such communities, winemaking was the best technology they had for storing highly perishable grapes, although whether the resulting beverage was intended for intoxication as well as nourishment is not known.\n\nBrewing dates from the beginning of civilization in ancient Egypt, and alcoholic beverages were very important at that time. Egyptian brewing began in the city of Heirakonpolis around 3400 BC; its ruins contain the remains of the world’s oldest brewery, which was capable of producing up to three hundred gallons per day of beer. Symbolic of this is the fact that while many gods were local or familial, Osiris was worshiped throughout the entire country. Osiris was believed to be the god of the dead, of life, of vegetable regeneration, and of wine.\n\nBoth beer and wine were deified and offered to gods. Cellars and wine presses even had a god whose hieroglyph was a winepress. The ancient Egyptians made at least 17 types of beer and at least 24 varieties of wine. The most common type of beer was known as hqt. Beer was the drink of common laborers; financial accounts report that the Giza pyramid builders were allotted a daily beer ration of one and one-third gallons. Alcoholic beverages were used for pleasure, nutrition, medicine, ritual, remuneration and funerary purposes. The latter involved storing the beverages in tombs of the deceased for their use in the after-life.\n\nNumerous accounts of the period stressed the importance of moderation, and these norms were both secular and religious. While Egyptians did not generally appear to define drunkenness as a problem, they warned against taverns (which were often houses of prostitution) and excessive drinking. After reviewing extensive evidence regarding the widespread but generally moderate use of alcoholic beverages, the nutritional biochemist and historian William J. Darby makes a most important observation: all these accounts are warped by the fact that moderate users \"were overshadowed by their more boisterous counterparts who added 'color' to history.\" Thus, the intemperate use of alcohol throughout history receives a disproportionate amount of attention.Those who abuse alcohol cause problems, draw attention to themselves, are highly visible and cause legislation to be enacted. The vast majority of drinkers, who neither experience nor cause difficulties, are not noteworthy. Consequently, observers and writers largely ignore moderation.\n\nEvidence of distillation comes from alchemists working in Alexandria, Roman Egypt, in the 1st century AD. Distilled water has been known since at least c. 200 AD, when Alexander of Aphrodisias described the process.\n\nBeer was the major beverage among the Babylonians, and as early as 2700 BC they worshiped a wine goddess and other wine deities. Babylonians regularly used both beer and wine as offerings to their gods. Around 1750 BC, the famous Code of Hammurabi devoted attention to alcohol. However, there were no penalties for drunkenness; in fact, it was not even mentioned. The concern was fair commerce in alcohol. Although it was not a crime, the Babylonians were critical of drunkenness.\n\nAlcoholic beverages in the Indus Valley Civilization appeared in the Chalcolithic Era. These beverages were in use between 3000 BC and 2000 BC. \"Sura\", a beverage brewed from rice meal, wheat, sugar cane, grapes, and other fruits, was popular among the Kshatriya warriors and the peasant population. \"Sura\" is considered to be a favorite drink of Indra.\n\nThe Hindu Ayurvedic texts describe both the beneficent uses of alcoholic beverages and the consequences of intoxication and alcoholic diseases. Ayurvedic texts concluded that alcohol was a medicine if consumed in moderation, but a poison if consumed in excess. Most of the people in India and China, have continued, throughout, to ferment a portion of their crops and nourish themselves with the alcoholic product.\n\nIn ancient India, alcohol was also used by the orthodox population. Early Vedic literature suggests the use of alcohol by priestly classes.\n\nThe two great Hindu epics, Ramayana and Mahabharata, mention the use of alcohol. In Ramayana, alcohol consumption is depicted in a good/bad dichotomy. The bad faction members consumed meat and alcohol while the good faction members were abstinent vegetarians. However, in Mahabharata, the characters are not portrayed in such a black-white contrast.\n\nAlcohol abstinence was promoted as a moral value in India by Mahavira, the founder of Jainism, and Adi Shankaracharya.\n\nDistillation was known in the ancient Indian subcontinent, evident from baked clay retorts and receivers found at Taxila and Charsadda in modern Pakistan, dating back to the early centuries of the Common Era. These \"Gandhara stills\" were only capable of producing very weak liquor, as there was no efficient means of collecting the vapors at low heat.\n\nWhile the art of wine making reached the Hellenic peninsula by about 2000 BC, the first alcoholic beverage to obtain widespread popularity in what is now Greece was mead, a fermented beverage made from honey and water. However, by 1700 BC, wine making was commonplace. During the next thousand years wine drinking assumed the same function so commonly found around the world: It was incorporated into religious rituals. It became important in hospitality, used for medicinal purposes, and became an integral part of daily meals. As a beverage, it was drunk in many ways: warm and chilled, pure and mixed with water, plain and spiced. Alcohol, specifically wine, was considered so important to the Greeks that consumption was considered a defining characteristic of the Hellenic culture between their society and the rest of the world; those who did not drink were considered barbarians.\n\nContemporary writers observed that the Greeks were among the most temperate of ancient peoples. This appears to result from their rules stressing moderate drinking, their praise of temperance, and their avoidance of excess in general. An exception to this ideal of moderation was the cult of Dionysus, in which intoxication was believed to bring people closer to their deity.\n\nWhile habitual drunkenness was rare, intoxication at banquets and festivals was not unusual. In fact, the symposium, a gathering of men for an evening of conversation, entertainment and drinking typically ended in intoxication. However, while there are no references in ancient Greek literature to mass drunkenness among the Greeks, there are references to it among foreign peoples. By 425 BC, warnings against intemperance, especially at symposia, appear to become more frequent.\n\nXenophon (431-351 BC) and Plato (429-347 BC) both praised the moderate use of wine as beneficial to health and happiness, but both were critical of drunkenness, which appears to have become a problem. Plato also believed that no one under the age of eighteen should be allowed to touch wine. Hippocrates (cir. 460-370 BC) identified numerous medicinal properties of wine, which had long been used for its therapeutic value. Later, both Aristotle (384-322 BC) and Zeno (cir. 336-264 BC) were very critical of drunkenness.\n\nAmong Greeks, the Macedonians viewed intemperance as a sign of masculinity and were well known for their drunkenness. Their king, Alexander the Great (356-323 BC), whose mother adhered to the Dionysian cult, developed a reputation for inebriety.\n\nSeveral Native American civilizations developed alcoholic beverages. Many versions of these beverages are still produced today.\n\nPulque, or octli is an alcoholic beverage made from the fermented juice of the maguey, and is a traditional native beverage of Mesoamerica. Though commonly believed to be a beer, the main carbohydrate is a complex form of fructose rather than starch. \"Pulque\" is depicted in Native American stone carvings from as early as AD 200. The origin of pulque is unknown, but because it has a major position in religion, many folk tales explain its origins.\n\nBalché is the name of a honey wine brewed by the Maya, associated with the Mayan deity Acan. The drink shares its name with the balché tree (Lonchocarpus violaceus), the bark of which is fermented in water together with honey from the indigenous stingless bee.\n\nTepache is a mildly alcoholic beverage indigenous to Mexico that is created by fermenting pineapple, including the rind, for a short period of three days.\n\nTejuino, traditional to the Mexican state of Jalisco, is a maize-based beverage that involves fermenting masa dough.\n\nChicha is a Spanish word for any of variety of traditional fermented beverages from the Andes region of South America. It can be made of maize, manioc root (also called\nyuca or cassava) or fruits among other things. During the Inca Empire women were taught the techniques of brewing chicha in Acllahuasis (feminine schools). \"Chicha de jora\" is prepared by germinating maize, extracting the malt sugars, boiling the wort, and fermenting it in large vessels, traditionally huge earthenware vats, for several days. In some cultures, in lieu of germinating the maize to release the starches, the maize is ground, moistened in the chicha maker's mouth and formed into small balls which are then flattened and laid out to dry. Naturally occurring diastase enzymes in the maker's saliva catalyzes the breakdown of starch in the maize into maltose. Chicha de jora has been prepared and consumed in communities throughout in the Andes for millennia. The Inca used chicha for ritual purposes and consumed it in vast quantities during religious festivals. In recent years, however, the traditionally prepared chicha is becoming increasingly rare. Only in a small number of towns and villages in southern Peru and Bolivia is it still prepared.\n\nCauim is a traditional alcoholic beverage of the Native American populations of Brazil since pre-Columbian times. It is still made today in remote areas throughout Panama and South America. \"Cauim\" is very similar to \"chicha\" and it is also made by fermenting manioc or maize, sometimes flavored with fruit juices. The Kuna Indians of Panama use plantains. A characteristic feature of the beverage is that the starting material is cooked, chewed, and re-cooked prior to fermentation. As in the making of \"chicha\", enzymes from the saliva of the \"cauim\" maker breakdown the starches into fermentable sugars.\n\nTiswin, or niwai is a mild, fermented, ceremonial beverage produced by various cultures living in the region encompassing the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Among the Apache, tiswin was made from maize, while the Tohono O'odham brewed tiswin using saguaro sap. The Tarahumara variety, called tesgüino, can be made from a variety of different ingredients. Recent archaeological evidence has also revealed the production of a similar maize-based intoxicant among the ancestors of the Pueblo peoples.\n\nIn addition, the Iroquois fermented sap from the sugar maple tree to produce a mildly alcoholic beverage.\n\nBacchus, the god of wine - for the Greeks, Dionysus - is the patron deity of agriculture and the theater. He was also known as the Liberator (Eleutherios), freeing one from one's normal self, by madness, ecstasy, or wine. The divine mission of Dionysus was to mingle the music of the aulos and to bring an end to care and worry. The Romans would hold dinner parties where wine was served to the guest all day along with a three course feast. Scholars have discussed Dionysus' relationship to the \"cult of the souls\" and his ability to preside over communication between the living and the dead.\n\nThe Roman belief that wine was a daily necessity made the drink \"democratic\" and ubiquitous: wine was available to slaves, peasants, women and aristocrats alike. To ensure the steady supply of wine to Roman soldiers and colonists, viticulture and wine production spread to every part of the empire. The Romans diluted their wine before drinking. Wine was also used for religious purposes, in the pouring of libations to deities.\n\nThough beer was drunk in Ancient Rome, it was replaced in popularity by wine. Tacitus wrote disparagingly of the beer brewed by the Germanic peoples of his day. Thracians were also known to consume beer made from rye, even since the 5th century BC, as the ancient Greek logographer Hellanicus of Lesbos says. Their name for beer was \"brutos\", or \"brytos\". The Romans called their brew \"cerevisia\", from the Celtic word for it. Beer was apparently enjoyed by some Roman legionaries. For instance, among the Vindolanda tablets (from Vindolanda in Roman Britain, dated c. 97-103 AD), the cavalry decurion Masculus wrote a letter to prefect Flavius Cerialis inquiring about the exact instructions for his men for the following day. This included a polite request for beer to be sent to the garrison (which had entirely consumed its previous stock of beer).\n\nPalm wine played an important social role in many African societies.\n\nThin, gruel-like, alcoholic beverages have existed in traditional societies all across the African continent, created through the fermentation of sorghum, millet, bananas, or in modern times, maize or cassava.\n\nMiddle-Eastern scientists used distillation extensively in their alchemical experiments, the most notable of whom were the Persian-Arab Jābir ibn Hayyān (Geber), the Arab Al-Kindi (Alkindus) and the other Persian scientist Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (Rhazes). Geber is acknowledged to be the father of the science of chemistry. He established the principle of classifying substances by their properties and invented equipment and techniques for isolating them. His technical innovations included the alembic still, whose principles still govern the production of alcoholic spirits.\n\nAl-Kindi unambiguously described the true distillation of wine in the 9th century. As an alchemist, Razi is known for his study of sulfuric acid and for his discovery of ethanol and its refinement to use in medicine. He became chief physician of Rey and Baghdad hospitals. Razi invented what today is known as rubbing alcohol.\n\nDistillation in China could have begun during the Eastern Han Dynasty (during the 1st & 2nd centuries), but the earliest archaeological evidence found so far indicates that the true distillation of alcohol began sometime during the Jin or Southern Song dynasties. A still has been found at an archaeological site in Qinglong, Hebei, dating to the 12th century.\n\nIn India, the true distillation of alcohol was introduced from the Middle East. It was in wide use in the Delhi Sultanate by the 14th century.\n\nThe process of distillation spread from the Middle East to Italy, where evidence of the distillation of alcohol appears from the School of Salerno in the 12th century. Fractional distillation was developed by Tadeo Alderotti in the 13th century.\n\nIn 1500, German alchemist Hieronymus Braunschweig published \"Liber de arte destillandi\" (The Book of the Art of Distillation), the first book solely dedicated to the subject of distillation, followed in 1512 by a much expanded version. In 1651, John French published The Art of Distillation the first major English compendium of practice, though it has been claimed that much of it derives from Braunschweig's work. This includes diagrams showing an industrial rather than bench scale of the operation.\n\nNames like \"life water\" have continued to be the inspiration for the names of several types of beverages, like Gaelic whisky, French eaux-de-vie and possibly vodka. Also, the Scandinavian akvavit spirit gets its name from the Latin phrase \"aqua vitae\".\n\nAt times and places of poor public sanitation (such as Medieval Europe), the consumption of alcoholic drinks was a way of avoiding water-borne diseases such as cholera. Small beer and faux wine, in particular, were used for this purpose. Although alcohol kills bacteria, its low concentration in these beverages would have had only a limited effect. More important was that the boiling of water (required for the brewing of beer) and the growth of yeast (required for fermentation of beer and wine) would kill dangerous microorganisms. The alcohol content of these beverages allowed them to be stored for months or years in simple wood or clay containers without spoiling. For this reason, they were commonly kept aboard sailing vessels as an important (or even the sole) source of hydration for the crew, especially during the long voyages of the early modern period.\n\nDuring the early modern period (1500–1800), Protestant leaders such as Martin Luther, John Calvin, the leaders of the Anglican Church, and even the Puritans did not differ substantially from the teachings of the Catholic Church: alcohol was a gift of God and created to be used in moderation for pleasure, enjoyment and health; drunkenness was viewed as a sin (see Christianity and alcohol).\n\nFrom this period through at least the beginning of the 18th century, attitudes toward drinking were characterized by a continued recognition of the positive nature of moderate consumption and an increased concern over the negative effects of drunkenness. The latter, which was generally viewed as arising out of the increased self-indulgence of the time, was seen as a threat to spiritual salvation and societal well being. Intoxication was also inconsistent with the emerging emphasis on rational mastery of self and world and on work and efficiency.\n\nIn spite of the ideal of moderation, consumption of alcohol was often high. In the 16th century, alcohol beverage consumption reached 100 liters per person per year in Valladolid, Spain, and Polish peasants consumed up to three liters of beer per day. In Coventry, England, the average amount of beer and ale consumed was about 17 pints per person per week, compared to about three pints today; nationwide, consumption was about one pint per day per capita. Swedish beer consumption may have been 40 times higher than in modern Sweden. English sailors received a ration of a gallon of beer per day, while soldiers received two-thirds of a gallon. In Denmark, the usual consumption of beer appears to have been a gallon per day for adult laborers and sailors. It is important to note that modern beer is much stronger than the beers of the past. While current beers are 3-5% alcohol, the beer drunk in the historical past was generally 1% or so. This was known as 'small beer'.\n\nHowever, the production and distribution of spirits spread slowly. Spirit drinking was still largely for medicinal purposes throughout most of the 16th century. It has been said of distilled alcohol that \"the sixteenth century created it; the seventeenth century consolidated it; the eighteenth popularized it.\"\n\nA beverage that clearly made its debut during the 17th century was sparkling champagne. The credit for that development goes primarily and erroneously to Dom Perignon, the wine-master in a French abbey. Although the oldest recorded sparkling wine is Blanquette de Limoux, in 1531, the English scientist and physician Christopher Merret documented the addition of sugar to a finished wine to create a second fermentation six years before Dom Perignon joined the Abbey of Hautvillers and almost 40 years before it was claimed that he invented Champagne. Around 1668, Perignon used strong bottles, invented a more efficient cork (and one that could contain the effervescence in those strong bottles), and began developing the technique of blending the contents. However, another century would pass before problems, especially bursting bottles, would be solved and champagne would become popular.\n\nThe original grain spirit, whisky (or \"whiskey\" in Hiberno-English) and its specific origins are unknown but the distillation of whisky has been performed in Ireland and Scotland for centuries. The first confirmed written record of whisky comes from 1405 in Ireland, the production of whisky from malted barley is first mentioned in Scotland in an entry from 1494, although both countries could have distilled grain alcohol before this date.\n\nDistilled spirit was generally flavored with juniper berries. The resulting beverage was known as jenever, the Dutch word for \"juniper.\" The French changed the name to genievre, which the English changed to \"geneva\" and then modified to \"gin.\" Originally used for medicinal purposes, the use of gin as a social drink did not grow rapidly at first. However, in 1690, England passed \"An Act for the Encouraging of the Distillation of Brandy and Spirits from Corn\" and within four years the annual production of distilled spirits, most of which was gin, reached nearly one million gallons. It should be noted that \"corn\" in the British English of the time meant \"grain\" in general, while in American English \"corn\" refers principally to maize.\n\nThe dawn of the 18th century saw the British Parliament pass legislation designed to encourage the use of grain for distilling spirits. In 1685, consumption of gin had been slightly over one-half million gallons but by 1714 it stood at two million gallons. In 1727, official (declared and taxed) production reached five million gallons; six years later the London area alone produced eleven million gallons of gin.\nThe English government actively promoted gin production to utilize surplus grain and to raise revenue. Encouraged by public policy, very cheap spirits flooded the market at a time when there was little stigma attached to drunkenness and when the growing urban poor in London sought relief from the newfound insecurities and harsh realities of urban life. Thus developed the so-called Gin Epidemic.\n\nWhile the negative effects of that phenomenon may have been exaggerated, Parliament passed legislation in 1736 to discourage consumption by prohibiting the sale of gin in quantities of less than two gallons and raising the tax on it dramatically. However, the peak in consumption was reached seven years later, when the nation of six and one-half million people drank over 18 million gallons of gin. And most was consumed by the small minority of the population then living in London and other cities; people in the countryside largely consumed beer, ale and cider.\n\nAfter its peak, gin consumption rapidly declined. From eighteen million gallons in 1743, it dropped to just over seven million gallons in 1751 and to less than two million by 1758, and generally declined to the end of the century. A number of factors appear to have converged to discourage consumption of gin. These include the production of higher quality beer of lower price, rising corn prices and taxes which eroded the price advantage of gin, a temporary ban on distilling, an increasing criticism of drunkenness, a newer standard of behavior that criticized coarseness and excess, increased tea and coffee consumption, an increase in piety and increasing industrialization with a consequent emphasis on sobriety and labor efficiency.\n\nWhile drunkenness was still an accepted part of life in the 18th century, the 19th century would bring a change in attitudes as a result of increasing industrialization and the need for a reliable and punctual work force. Self-discipline was needed in place of self-expression, and task orientation had to replace relaxed conviviality. Drunkenness would come to be defined as a threat to industrial efficiency and growth.\n\nEthanol can produce a state of general anesthesia and historically has been used for this purpose (Dundee et al., 1969).\n\nProblems commonly associated with industrialization and rapid urbanization were also attributed to alcohol. Thus, problems such as urban crime, poverty and high infant mortality rates were blamed on alcohol, although \"it is likely that gross overcrowding and unemployment had much to do with these problems.\" Over time, more and more personal, social and religious/moral problems would be blamed on alcohol. And not only would it be enough to prevent drunkenness; any consumption of alcohol would come to be seen as unacceptable. Groups that began by promoting the moderate use of alcohol instead of its abuse- would ultimately form temperance movements and press for the complete and total prohibition of the production and distribution of beverage alcohol. Unfortunately, this would not eliminate social problems but would compound the situation by creating additional problems wherever it was implemented.\n\nAlcoholic beverages played an important role in the Thirteen Colonies from their early days. For example, the \"Mayflower\" shipped more beer than water when it departed for the New World in 1620. While this may seem strange viewed from the modern context, note that drinking wine and beer at that time was safer than drinking water - which was usually taken from sources also used to dispose of sewage and garbage. Experience showed that it was safer to drink alcohol than the typically polluted water in Europe. Alcohol was also an effective analgesic, provided energy necessary for hard work, and generally enhanced the quality of life.\n\nFor hundreds of years the English ancestors of the colonists had consumed beer and ale. Both in England and in the New World, people of both sexes and all ages typically drank beer with their meals. Because importing a continuing supply of beer was expensive, the early settlers brewed their own. However, it was difficult to make the beer they were accustomed to because wild yeasts caused problems in fermentation and resulted in a bitter, unappetizing brew. Although wild hops grew in New England, hop seeds were ordered from England in order to cultivate an adequate supply for traditional beer. In the meantime, the colonists improvised a beer made from red and black spruce twigs boiled in water, as well as a ginger beer.\n\nBeer was designated X, XX, or XXX according to its alcohol content. The colonists also learned to make a wide variety of wine from fruits. They additionally made wine from such products as flowers, herbs, and even oak leaves. Early on, French vine-growers were brought to the New World to teach settlers how to cultivate grapes.\n\nColonists adhered to the traditional belief that distilled spirits were \"aqua vitae\", or water of life. However, rum was not commonly available until after 1650, when it was imported from the Caribbean. The cost of rum dropped after the colonists began importing molasses and cane sugar directly and distilled their own rum. By 1657, a rum distillery was operating in Boston. It was highly successful and within a generation the production of rum became colonial New England's largest and most prosperous industry.\n\nAlmost every important town from Massachusetts to the Carolinas had a rum distillery to meet the local demand, which had increased dramatically. Rum was often enjoyed in mixed drinks, including flip. This was a popular winter beverage made of rum and beer sweetened with sugar and warmed by plunging a red-hot fireplace poker into the serving mug.\nAlcohol was viewed positively while its abuse was condemned. Increase Mather (d. 1723) expressed the common view in a sermon against drunkenness: \"Drink is in itself a good creature of God, and to be received with thankfulness, but the abuse of drink is from Satan; the wine is from God, but the drunkard is from the Devil.\"\n\nIn the early 19th century, Americans had inherited a hearty drinking tradition. Many types of alcohol were consumed. One reason for this heavy drinking was attributed to an overabundance of corn on the western frontier, which encouraged the widespread production of cheap whiskey. It was at this time that alcohol became an important part of the American diet. In the 1820s, Americans drank seven gallons of alcohol per person annually.\n\nIn colonial America, water contamination was common. Two means to ensure that waterborne illness, for example typhoid and cholera, was not conveyed by water was to boil it in the process of making tea or coffee, or to use it to make alcohol. As a result, alcohol consumption was much higher in the nineteenth century than it is today -- of pure alcohol per person per year. Before the construction of the Erie Canal, transportation of grain from the west was cost prohibitive; farmers instead converted their grain to alcohol for shipping eastward. This dependence on alcohol as a revenue source led to the Whiskey Rebellion of 1794. Later in the nineteenth century opposition to alcohol grew in the form of the temperance movement, culminating in Prohibition in the United States from 1920 to 1933.\n\n\n30.^http://archaeology.about.com/od/wterms/qt/wine.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "19799821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19799821", "title": "Hu Sihui", "text": "Hu Sihui\n\nHu Sihui (, 和斯輝, 忽斯慧, also Hu Zheng Qi Huei; active nr. 1314–1330) was a court therapist and dietitian during Yuan dynasty in China. He is known for his book \"Yinshan Zhengyao\" (\"Important Principles of Food and Drink\"), that became a classic in Chinese medicine and Chinese cuisine. He was the first to empirically discover and clearly describe deficiency diseases.\n\nThe career of Hu Sihui, as he states in preface to his book, was in the reign of Buyantu Khan in Yenyu years (1314—1320). An ethnic Mongol, and an official in Xuanhui Yuan (the Ministry of Court Supplies and Provisions), around 1315 Hu Sihui initially emerged as the therapist of Empress Dowager, soon also became the therapist of the acting Empress, and later received the rank of the chief Imperial therapist and became responsible for food and drinks of the numerous Emperor's family.\n\nAs tradition has it, Buyantu Khan, after several years of expeditions and irregular life, was overstrained and suffered acute pain in his kidneys. The vegetable soup prescribed by Hu Sihui cured the pains in 3 months, and one of Emperor's spouses became pregnant. The Emperor grandly awarded Hu Sihui as the cause of this \"double joy\".\n\nIn 1330 Hu Sihui, no longer busy with the Emperor and his harem, completed and presented to the Court his book \"Yinshan Zhengyao\" (饮膳正要), summarising the experiences of the court dietitian. The main idea of his work was that people preparing food for the Emperor are directly responsible for efficiency of the State, as a monarch may get sick from improper eating, and lose ability of managing state affairs.\n\n\"Yinshan Zhengyao\" teaches a significant number of diseases are caused by improper eating, and a significant part of them can be cured by proper eating. The book propagated moderation, regularity and variety in food, proper hygiene and food storage, and special diets for pregnant women and for children. This book was the first to describe in detail how diseases are connected to deficiency of certain components in food. It was probably the first book in China to dwell on food poisoning.\n\nRecipes presented show strong Han Chinese as well as Mongolian, Turkic and Persian influences. As Hu Sihui states, a large variety of foods were known in the court since Kublai Khan and this novelty needed special research as to its influence on health. Taken as a collection of recipes and ingredients alone, his book is a tremendously important description of Medieval food of Eurasia.\n\nThe section of recipes starts with a variety soups, barley, then noodles and breads. Many recipes represent Central and West Asian cooking traditions, roughly translated into Chinese categories, some even translated from Turkic languages. Two examples of recipes are:\n\nHu Sihui's book was widely accepted in Later Yuan, but won even wider influence after the fall of Yuan. Ming Dynasty, after occupying Beijing in 1368, started to combine Chinese cuisine from other regions with the cosmopolitan cuisine of Yuan court. Jingtai Emperor of Ming (ruled 1449—1457) personally wrote a preface to an edition of Yinshan Zhengyao.\n\nAs a culinary encyclopedia, this book made some regional recipes aссepted as part of national cuisine of the whole of China. For example, it is this book that contained a recipe of a roast duck that could be a predecessor of the widely known Beijing Duck. \n\n"}
{"id": "600045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600045", "title": "Hyperventilation syndrome", "text": "Hyperventilation syndrome\n\nHyperventilation syndrome (HVS); also chronic hyperventilation syndrome (CHVS) and dysfunctional breathing hyperventilation syndrome is a respiratory disorder, psychologically or physiologically based, involving breathing too deeply or too rapidly (hyperventilation). HVS may present with chest pain and a tingling sensation in the fingertips and around the mouth (paresthesia) and may accompany a panic attack.\n\nPeople with HVS may feel that they cannot get enough air. In reality, they have about the same oxygenation in the arterial blood (normal values are about 98% for hemoglobin saturation) and too little carbon dioxide (hypocapnia) in their blood and other tissues. While oxygen is abundant in the bloodstream, HVS reduces effective delivery of that oxygen to vital organs due to low--induced vasoconstriction and the suppressed Bohr effect.\n\nThe hyperventilation is self-promulgating as rapid breathing causes carbon dioxide levels to fall below healthy levels, and respiratory alkalosis (high blood pH) develops. This makes the symptoms worse, which causes the person to breathe even faster, which then, further exacerbates the problem.\n\nThe respiratory alkalosis leads to changes in the way the nervous system fires and leads to the paresthesia, dizziness, and perceptual changes that often accompany this condition. Other mechanisms may also be at work, and some people are physiologically more susceptible to this phenomenon than others.\n\nHyperventilation syndrome is believed to be caused by psychological factors and by definition has no organic cause. It is one cause of hyperventilation with others including infection, blood loss, heart attack, hypocapnia or alkalosis due to chemical imbalances, decreased cerebral blood flow, and increased nerve sensitivity.\n\nIn one study, one third of patients with HVS had \"subtle but definite lung disease\" that prompted them to breathe too frequently or too deeply.\n\nMany people with panic disorder or agoraphobia will experience HVS. However, most people with HVS do not have these disorders.\n\nHyperventilation syndrome is a remarkably common cause of dizziness complaints. About 25% of patients who complain about dizziness are diagnosed with HVS.\n\nA diagnostic Nijmegen Questionnaire provides an accurate diagnosis of Hyperventilation.\n\nThere is insufficient evidence for or against breathing exercises.\n\nWhile traditional intervention for an acute episode has been to have the patient breathe into a paper bag, causing rebreathing and restoration of CO₂ levels, this is not advised. The same benefits can be obtained more safely from deliberately slowing down the breathing rate by counting or looking at the second hand on a watch. This is sometimes referred to as \"7-11 breathing\", because a gentle inhalation is stretched out to take 7 seconds (or counts), and the exhalation is slowed to take 11 seconds. This in-/exhalation ratio can be safely decreased to 4-12 or even 4-20 and more, as the O₂ content of the blood will easily sustain normal cell function for several minutes at rest when normal blood acidity has been restored.\n\nIt has also been suggested that breathing therapies such as the Buteyko Breathing method may be effective in reducing the symptoms and recurrence of the syndrome.\n\nBenzodiazepines can be prescribed to reduce stress that provokes hyperventilation syndrome. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) can reduce the severity and frequency of hyperventilation episodes.\n\nThe original traditional treatment of breathing into a paper bag to control psychologically based hyperventilation syndrome (which is now almost universally known and often shown in movies and TV dramas) was invented by New York City physician (later radiologist), Alexander Winter, M.D. [1908-1978], based on his experiences in the U.S. Army Medical Corps during World War II and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in 1951. Because other medical conditions can be confused with hyperventilation, namely asthma and heart attacks, most medical studies advise against using a paper bag since these conditions worsen when CO levels increase.\n"}
{"id": "41326050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41326050", "title": "International Society of Travel Medicine", "text": "International Society of Travel Medicine\n\nThe International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM) is an international society of physicians, pharmacists, nurses, and other medical professionals based in Dunwoody, GA to promote travel health initiatives. Founded as an organization in 1991, ISTM has built a global network that is committed to the advancement of travel medicine - currently the largest organization of this type.\nThe ISTM fosters research, facilitates the rapid exchange of information, and provides educational programming to serve the travel medicine community. Promoting the development and evaluation of safe, effective, preventive and curative interventions for patients prior to travel, during travel and post travel is an important aspect of supporting the travel medicine community.\n\nISTM hosts a Global Travel Clinic Directory that enables travelers to find medical assistance in over 80 countries. Travel clinics provide travelers with specialized travel medicine care that includes pre, post and during travel immunizations, treatment, and medicines for protection against and treatment of diseases acquired during international travel. Many of the clinics provide care in various languages for better communication between patients and healthcare professionals.\n\nISTM sponsors an examination for professionals to earn a Certificate of Knowledge in Travel Medicine. This exam is offered annually. The exam is written and developed by an international panel of travel medicine experts who are representative of the variety of professional disciplines associated with travel medicine. The exam represents a global standard for travel medicine practitioners in proficiency in travel medicine. In passing the Certificate of Knowledge Examination, one is awarded a Certificate of Travel Health, or CTH.\n\nISTM established a Travel Medicine Online Learning program consisting of more than 100 educational modules on travel medicine topics. The modules are available over the internet to members of the society as well as non members.\n\nThe Conference of the International Society of Travel Medicine (CISTM) is the largest biennial gathering of travel medicine professionals. Typically alternating between Europe and North America, each CISTM provides opportunities for medical professionals to advance their specialty of travel medicine through plenary, symposium, and workshop meetings. Experts in the travel medicine and tangential subjects are invited to provide each delegate with comprehensive knowledge of current events in travel medicine. In non CISTM years, the ISTM supports regional conferences around the world in conjunction with regional travel medicine societies.\n\nNext CISTM:\n\n2019 16th CISTM Washington, DC, United States of America\n\nPrevious CISTMs:\n\nThe Journal of Travel Medicine is a peer reviewed and PubMed indexed journal for the concentration of travel medicine. Published by ISTM 6 times a year, it provides medical professionals with current research and original articles. Subjects included in previous journals are: epidemiology among traveling individuals (including members of the military, refugees, and migrants), preventative travel care, diagnosis of illnesses obtained during travel, adventure travel, expatriated individuals, self-therapy, and the impact of travelers on a host country.\n\nThe GeoSentinel Network is a global surveillance network created in order to gather and share data concerning travel and tropical medicine. The GeoSentinel Network was founded in 1995 with the support of ISTM and the United States Centers for Disease Control to identify and alert medical professionals of illnesses among travelers, immigrants, and refugees.\nGeoSentinel Sites, located on five continents, participate in surveillance and monitoring of travelers to detect alarming diagnoses or atypical events. These activities allow for information sharing globally and enables health authorities to be aware of global trends in morbidity.\n\nIn order to facilitate ongoing research in the field of travel medicine, ISTM awards Research Grants to ISTM members annually. These research grants are carefully selected by a peer-reviewed process and Research and Awards Committee. The grants provide support for research to encourage travel medicine interest, and enable researchers to collect data and test hypotheses to provide opportunities for application to more substantive grants in the future.\n"}
{"id": "28349919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28349919", "title": "International Tea Day", "text": "International Tea Day\n\nInternational Tea Day is observed annually on December 15. It has been celebrated since 2005 in tea producing countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Vietnam, Indonesia, Kenya, Malawi, Malaysia, Uganda, India and Tanzania. International Tea Day aims to draw global attention of governments and citizens to the impact of the global tea trade on workers and growers, and has been linked to requests for price supports and fair trade.\n\nAfter initial discussions at the World Social Forum in 2004, the first International Tea Day was celebrated in New Delhi in 2005, with later celebrations organized in Sri Lanka in 2006 and 2008. International Tea Day celebrations and the related Global Tea Conferences have been jointly organized by trade union movements.\n\nIn 2015, the Indian government proposed expanding the observance of International Tea Day through the UN Food and Agriculture Organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37107991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37107991", "title": "Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center", "text": "Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center is located on the Idaho State University campus. The Center addresses topics that deal with equality issues that have an effect on the community regardless of sexual dimorphism, gender, or sexual orientation.\n\nThe mission statement for the Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center is:\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center at Idaho State University serves as the focal point on campus for the consideration of gender issues. The mission of the Center is to increase awareness and promote open dialogue about gender through its resources and services, educational programming and support of gender-related research. In our efforts, we are especially guided by the ideal of diversity, which allows us to envision a future free of the limitations imposed by our culture's standard definitions of gender. Funded through mandatory student fees, the Center’s primary target audience is that of ISU students; the Center also welcomes the interest and participation of prospective students, ISU faculty and staff, and members of the Eastern Idaho community. \n\nThe founding of the Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center originated in 1996 when members of Idaho State University Professional Women asked President Richard Bowen about establishing a women's center. As a result, Bowen appointed Dr. Janet Anderson, Dean of Student Affairs, to head a committee that would determine if a women's center was a feasible idea for Idaho State University. It was decided that a gender center was an ideal venue for Idaho State University to address women's issues on campus, however the Center was not funded at that time.\n\nIn 1998, when Anderson was preparing for her retirement, the Associated Students of ISU (ASISU) was searching for a plan to honor Anderson's service towards the university. As a result, ASISU decided that a center funded through student fees would be an ideal solution to honor Anderson. In October 1998, the Janet C. Anderson Resource Center opened in its permanent space in Gravely Hall.\n\nIn December 1999, the Center established the Project Hope Advocacy Program through a grant from the Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women. Following a grant renewal, the State Board of Education approved funding for a permanent, full-time advocacy position in 2004. In the spring of 2003, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare provided a grant to establish the W.I.S.E. Project, an HIV prevention program for women. Also in the spring of 2003, the Center received funding from the Idaho Department of health and Welfare's Rape Prevention and Education Fund, which supports the Center's Project Hope graduate assistant planning programming specifically for men.\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center has undergone many changes since its founding. On December 9, 2002, President Bowen accepted a proposal by Rebecca Morrow, to amend the Center's official name to the Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center. The word \"gender\" was included to more accurately describe the mission of the Center. The Center believes there should be an open and fair dialogue between both males and females to construct gender. At the Center, hard work has been implemented to make it known as a place that is open to anyone who shares in the curiosity about women's and men's lives in our society.\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center provides a number of services that are all geared towards constructing a better understanding of \"gender\" and how both men and women can affect the word \"gender\". The Center provides educational programming, the support of gender-related research, and resources that help individuals make important life decisions.\n\nEach year, the Center takes part in commemorating and celebrating nationally designated months and participates in events designed to draw attention to particular gender-related issues, including:\n\nThe Center also hosts discussion groups and sponsors entertainment-oriented events. The Center attempts to maintain a healthy relationship with faculty and staff by giving them the opportunity to host presentations and group discussions surrounding topics such as domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, healthy relationships, and HIV/AIDS including prevention and cultural diversity.\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center sponsors lectures by nationally known figures on an irregular basis.\n\nThe Janet C. Anderson Gender Resource Center's library holds books, magazines, and pamphlets on a variety of gender-related topics. The library holds material that focuses on everyone no matter what their sex, sexual orientation, ethnic or cultural background, religion, abilities or age are. Materials from the library can be borrowed for a period up to a month.\n"}
{"id": "1499475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499475", "title": "K-line (artificial intelligence)", "text": "K-line (artificial intelligence)\n\nA K-line, or Knowledge-line, is a mental agent which represents an association of a group of other mental agents found active when a subject solves a certain problem or formulates a new idea. These were first described in Marvin Minsky's essay , published in 1980 in the journal \"Cognitive Science\":\n\nWhen you \"get an idea,\" or \"solve a problem\" ... you create what we shall call a K-line. ... When that K-line is later \"activated\", it reactivates ... mental agencies, creating a partial mental state \"resembling the original.\"\n\n\"Whenever you 'get a good idea', solve a problem, or have a memorable experience, you activate a K-line to 'represent' it. A K-line is a wirelike structure that attaches itself to whichever mental agents are active when you solve a problem or have a good idea.\n\nWhen you activate that K-line later, the agents attached to it are aroused, putting you into a 'mental state' much like the one you were in when you solved that problem or got that idea. This should make it relatively easy for you to solve new, similar problems!\" (1998, p. 82.)\n\n"}
{"id": "47422065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47422065", "title": "List of countries by future population (United Nations, instant replacement variant)", "text": "List of countries by future population (United Nations, instant replacement variant)\n\nThis is a List of countries by future population using the instant-replacement variant, ranging from 2020 to 2100 in decades or ten-year periods, as estimated by the 2015 revision of the World Population Prospects database by the United Nations Population Division. All figures are rounded and given in thousands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47185853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47185853", "title": "List of largest reservoirs in India", "text": "List of largest reservoirs in India\n\nThis is a list of largest reservoirs in India, including all artificial lakes with a capacity greater than or equal to . In terms of number of dams, India ranks fourth after China, USA and Russia. Currently there are 4710 completed large dams and 390 are under-construction. In India most of the dams are maintained by the State Governments while there are a few other organizations, namely, Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and National Hydro Electric Power Corporation (NHPC) who also now own and operate dams.\n\n"}
{"id": "57969109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57969109", "title": "Loss (comic)", "text": "Loss (comic)\n\n\"Loss\", sometimes referred to as \"Loss.jpg\", is a webcomic strip created in 2008 by Tim Buckley for his gaming-related webcomic \"Ctrl+Alt+Del\". During a storyline where the main character Ethan and his fiancée Lilah are expecting their first child, the strip—presented as a four-panel comic with no dialogue—has Ethan entering a hospital, asking a receptionist for directions, talking to a doctor, and finding Lilah crying on her side in a hospital bed, implying that she had suffered a miscarriage. Buckley cited personal events in his life as inspiration for the comic. \n\nSince the publication of the strip, it has garnered negative reception from critics and webcomic creators, noting the shift in tone in the webcomic as an example of \"fridging\". It later garnered a legacy as an internet meme, with edits to the strip being made by other creators.\n\n\"Ctrl+Alt+Del\", abbreviated to \"CAD\", is a webcomic series by Tim Buckley. Created in October 2002, the comic focuses on characters Ethan and Lucas, and later Ethan's love interest Lilah. In 2008, during a storyline where Ethan and Lilah were expecting their first child, Buckley posted the strip \"Loss\", presented as a four-panel comic strip with no dialogue. The strip showed Ethan entering a hospital in the first panel, asking a receptionist for directions in the second, talking to a doctor in the third, and finding Lilah crying on her side in a hospital bed in the last panel, implying that she had suffered a miscarriage. Before releasing the strip, Buckley wrote up a blog post, explaining that he had planned the story line years in advance. He also mentioned personal experience in his life inspired the strip, mentioning an unplanned pregnancy and miscarriage with an ex-girlfriend in college.\n\n\"Loss\" was received negatively by webcomic creators and critics. During the 2008 Penny Arcade Expo, creators of the event and webcomic series \"Penny Arcade\" Mike Krahulik and Jerry Holkins were asked about the strip during an interview with Joystiq. Both men criticized it, with Holkins describing Buckley as the \"Antichrist\", humorously citing \"Loss\" and its storyline as the first horseman of the Apocalypse. Ben \"Yahtzee\" Croshaw, creator of the video game review series \"Zero Punctuation\", satirically referenced \"Ctrl+Alt+Del\" in his episode on video game webcomics, where he brings up that having a story line where a character miscarries in a webcomic known for humor would be considered \"an awkward tonal shift\" and \"hugely disrespectful\" of the subject of miscarriages. Kotaku's Mike Fahey, formerly a self-declared fan of the webcomic, agreed with Croshaw's complaints, mentioning being unable to read the series like he used to.\n\nThe strip has also faced criticism for being an example of \"fridging\", a term coined by the website Women in Refrigerators where an author uses the trauma of a female character as a plot device. Buckley later stated, in the event the situation was brought up again in the webcomic, he would do more research on the effects miscarriages have on mothers.\n\nSince the strip was first published in 2008, it has become an internet meme, with users from sites such as 4chan and Tumblr creating edits of the strip, such as recreating it using scenes from other works such as \"Futurama\" and Pokémon. 4chan's video game board /v/ would later ban users who created new threads about these edits. A minimalist version of the meme involves the sequence in the same four-panel style; panel one with a single straight line, second panel with two straight lines, with the second line slightly shorter, third panel two standing lines, and the fourth panel a standing line and a horizontal line. Seeing this sequence would usually cause the reader to ask, \"Is this Loss?\"\n\n\"New York Magazine\" Brian Feldman declared it as \"the Internet’s Longest-Running Miscarriage ‘Joke’\". Aryehi Bhushan from student newspaper \"Varsity\" wrote about \"Loss\" as a meme, praising its longevity compared to other memes that have short lifespans. In 2016, the podcast \"Reply All\" discussed the strip during their eightieth episode, where a variant of \"Loss\" was used as a joke about the results in the 2016 United States presidential election.\n\nOn June 2, 2018, the tenth anniversary of \"Loss\", the original strip was replaced by an edit of the comic titled \"Found\". The difference between the two comic strips has Ethan in the last panel with a smirk on his face. A day later, the original strip was restored with no explanation for the replacement. Julia Alexander from \"Polygon\" considered \"Found\" to be an acknowledgement of the status \"Loss\" had achieved as a meme, comparing the evolution of the strip to Pepe the Frog.\n\n"}
{"id": "52083014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52083014", "title": "Main Military Medical Directorate (Russia)", "text": "Main Military Medical Directorate (Russia)\n\nThe Main Military Medical Directorate, also known as \"Main Agency for Military Medicine\" () is the specialist corps in the Russian Ministry of defense and Russia's Armed Forces which provides medical services to all Army personnel and their families, in war and in peace.\n\nThe headquarters is located in the Main Building of the Ministry of Defense at Znamenka 19, Moscow, Russia\n\nFirst Military corps in Russia were formed as Medical Expedition in the Russian Army (Медицинская экспедиция при Военного Министерства России) in 1805.\n\nSince 1867 it was renamed to Main Medical Department. In 1909 it was renamed to Main Military Sanitary Directorate (Главное военно-санитарное управление).\n\nDuring Soviet regime the Military Medical Department changed its name many times: In 1924 it became the Military Sanitary Directorate of the Red Army (ВСУ РККА). In 1936: Sanitary Directorate, and during World War II, in 1941 the department was called again as the Main Military Sanitary Directorate (ГВСУ).\n\nIn 1946 the Directorate carried the current name: Main Military Medical Directorate of the Soviet Armed Forces (ГВМУ ВС СССР).\n\nIn 1960 it simply was called as the Military Medical Directorate (or the Center for Military Medical Directorate)\n\nAfter the dissolution of the USSR, the Military medicine was subordinate to the Armed Forced of the Russian Federation in 1992 and became Main Military Medical Directorate of the Russian Military (ГВМУ ВС РФ).\n\nMore than 100,000 medical specialists are working in the Military medicine system, including 23,000 doctors. The Military services built with 70 military medical organizations, with about 4 million workers.\n\nThe Main Directorate including the following institutions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28167138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28167138", "title": "Marwencol (film)", "text": "Marwencol (film)\n\nMarwencol (also known as Village of the Dolls in the UK) is a 2010 American documentary film that explores the life and work of artist and photographer Mark Hogancamp. It is the debut feature of director-editor Jeff Malmberg. It was the inspiration for \"Welcome to Marwen\", a 2018 drama directed by Robert Zemeckis.\n\nOn April 8, 2000, Mark Hogancamp was attacked outside of a bar by five men who beat him nearly to death after he told them he was a cross-dresser. After nine days in a coma and forty days in the hospital, Hogancamp was discharged with brain damage that left him little memory of his previous life. Unable to afford therapy, he creates his own by building a 1/6-scale World War II-era Belgian town in his yard and populating it with dolls representing himself, his friends, and even his attackers. He calls that town \"Marwencol,\" blending the names \"Mark,\" \"Wendy\" and \"Colleen.\"\n\nHogancamp was initially discovered by photographer David Naugle, who documented and shared his story with \"Esopus\" magazine and then his work was shown in a New York art gallery.\n\nThe film was shot in New York State between 2006 and 2010, using a combination of DVCAM video and Super-8 film formats.\n\nThe film received widespread critical acclaim, holding a 98% approval rating out of a total of 59 reviews on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. The site awarded the film its \"Golden Tomato\" Award for the best-reviewed documentary of the year. The \"Los Angeles Times\" called the film \"an exhilarating, utterly unique experience\" while the \"Village Voice\" said that it's \"exactly the sort of mysterious and almost holy experience you hope to get from documentaries and rarely do.\"\n\nThe film was in the year-end top ten lists of the \"Boston Globe\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Slate\", \"New York\" magazine, \"The Oregonian\", National Public Radio, and many others.\n\nThe film was included in \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s July 6, 2012 article \"50 Best Movies You've Never Seen\".\n\nIn the 2012 \"Slate\" article and online poll, \"The Golden Age of Documentaries: What's the Best Doc of the Last 5 Years?\", \"Marwencol\" was ranked #1 in the poll.\n\nIn the 2012 PBS/POV online poll, \"The 100 Greatest Documentaries of All Time\", \"Marwencol\" was ranked #91 in the poll.\n\nIn the April 22, 2013 \"New York\" article, \"How Documentary Became the Most Exciting Kind of Filmmaking\", \"Marwencol\" was among the films in the accompanying list, \"The 20 Essential Documentaries of the Century\".\n\nIn September 2016, Cinema Eye Honors named \"Marwencol\" as one of the 20 top non-fiction films of the past decade, based on a poll of 110 key figures in the documentary community.\n\nIn 2013, Robert Zemeckis began work on a dramatization of the story for Universal Studios based on a script by Caroline Thompson. \"Welcome to Marwen\" is set to be released in December 2018, starring Steve Carell as Hogancamp.\n\nThe ninth episode of the second season of Fox sitcom \"Raising Hope\" (\"The Men of New Natesville\") is an homage to the film.\n\nThe Spike Jonze-directed music video for the Beastie Boys song \"Don't Play No Game That I Can't Win\" was inspired by the film and Hogancamp's world.\n\nThe Russian musical group The Saint Petersburg Disco Spin Club released a track in 2011, \"Marwencol\".\n\nThe American punk rock group Tough Broad released the 2012 song, \"Marwencol\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10316499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10316499", "title": "Medicine in Star Trek", "text": "Medicine in Star Trek\n\nMedicine in \"Star Trek\" refers to the medical technologies, procedures and conditions as seen in the \"Star Trek\" fictional universe.\n\nSince the \"Star Trek\" fictional universe takes place roughly two or three centuries in our future, medical technology is portrayed as having grown to be far more sophisticated and advanced than current technology. When confronted with medical technology from older time periods, the character often react apprehensively or skeptically to the relatively outdated modern procedures. For example, when visiting a hospital in the 1980s in \"\", Dr. McCoy (played by DeForest Kelley) shows disdain for his 20th century counterparts and compares their procedures to the Dark Ages and the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nIn the series \"\", the character Geordi La Forge (played by LeVar Burton) wears a piece of technology called a VISOR that allows him to \"see\" despite being blind from birth by directly sending the information into his brain. The device also gave him the ability to see in the electromagnetic and infrared spectrums. The VISOR was used as a plot device throughout multiple episodes, including one where the VISOR is used to brainwash La Forge and one where emanations from the VISOR caused the character Worf to shift between parallel universes. Finally, in the movie \"Star Trek Generations\", a group of Klingons used the VISOR to transmit the shield frequencies of the USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) to their ship, which allowed them to fatally cripple the \"Enterprise-D\" before they were destroyed. When La Forge is next seen, in the movie \"\", he no longer wears his VISOR in lieu of the more innocuous-looking ocular implants.\n\nThe underlying mechanics of the VISOR (the transmission of images directly into the brain to overcome blindness) has been developed in the real world, albeit not as precisely as seen in \"Star Trek\". In 2005, a team of medical researchers at Stanford University used a combination of microchip implants behind mice retinas and goggles equipped with LED readouts and a small camera to partially restore sight enough so that the mice could distinguish sets of black and white patterns. In 2006, a woman who lost her sight in a car crash had a similar procedure performed on her in Portugal which gave her the ability to see object outlines and differences in light.\n\nThe hypospray has been featured in every \"Star Trek\" series as a tool used to give injections of medications. It has been shown in the series to be able to deliver injections through clothing, and does not carry any risk of cross-contamination as opposed to modern hypodermic needles. The concept of the hypospray was developed when producers on the original \"Star Trek\" series discovered that NBC's broadcast standards and practices prohibited the use of hypodermic syringes to inject medications; the needleless hypospray sidestepped this issue.\n\nThe hypospray has a real world counterpart called a jet injector, invented four years before the first \"Star Trek\" series debuted. It uses compressed air to inject the medication through the skin. However, unlike the hypospray, it carries the risk of cross-contamination, which has led to the jet injector falling into disuse. It also has limits for adjusting and controlling the exact dosage levels. The mechanisms used, particularly in spring-loaded designs, are one shot releases, with a coil that ejects the same amount of drug to the same depth every time, which limits the application to certain drugs or patient populations.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a device which uses ultrasonic waves to open pores on the skin, allowing the injection liquid to enter the bloodstream without the use of needles.\n\nCurrently, MIT researchers have engineered a device that delivers a tiny, high-pressure jet of medicine through the skin without the use of a hypodermic needle. The device can be programmed to deliver a range of doses to various depths, an improvement over similar jet-injection systems commercially available. Among other benefits, the technology may help reduce the potential for needle-stick injuries. A needleless device may also help improve necessary scheduled medications among patients who might otherwise avoid the discomfort of regularly injecting themselves with drugs such as insulin. The jet-injection system delivers a range of doses to variable depths in a highly controlled manner. The design is built around a mechanism called a \"Lorentz-force actuator\", a small, powerful magnet surrounded by a coil of wire that’s attached to a piston inside a drug ampoule. When current is applied, it interacts with the magnetic field to produce a force that pushes the piston forward, ejecting the drug at high pressure and velocity, almost the speed of sound in air, out through the ampoule’s nozzle, an opening as wide as a mosquito sting. Through testing, the group found that various skin types may require different waveforms to deliver adequate volumes of drugs to the desired depth. For example, breaching a baby’s skin to deliver vaccine will not need as much pressure as adult skin, allowing doctors to tailor the pressure profile.\n\nThe team is also developing a version of the device for transdermal delivery of drugs ordinarily found in powdered form by programming the device to vibrate, turning powder into a “fluidized” form that can be delivered through the skin much like a liquid. A powder-delivery vehicle may help solve what’s known as the “cold-chain” problem: Vaccines delivered to developing countries need to be refrigerated if they are in liquid form. Often, coolers break down, spoiling whole batches of vaccines. Instead, Hunter says a vaccine that can be administered in powder form requires no cooling, avoiding the cold-chain problem.\n\nFor the television series \"\" an emergency medical hologram, , was introduced. It was designed to be an expert on all fields of medicine, able to do anything any organic doctor could do.\n"}
{"id": "57819966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57819966", "title": "Minnesota Department of Health", "text": "Minnesota Department of Health\n\nThe Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) is the state health agency of the State of Minnesota in the United States. The department has four offices in Saint Paul and seven outside of the Twin Cities metropolitan area: Bemidji, Duluth, Fergus Falls, Mankato, Marshall, Rochester, and St. Cloud.\n\nThe agency is responsible for Minnesotans' public health, including disease control and prevention, environmental health, public policy, and regulation of health care providers.\n"}
{"id": "1946365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946365", "title": "Muzzle action trigger", "text": "Muzzle action trigger\n\nMuzzle-Action-trigger often used in the US military and ROTC rifle programs. The steps are defined as: \n\n1) Muzzle - Keep your muzzle under control on and off the range even if it's not loaded or armed. Keep your muzzle free of obstructions and dirt. \n2) Action - Check to see if the bolt is pulled back into the unarmed position, make sure there is no ammunition inside, check for a CBI (see also clear barrel indicator C.B.I.). Make sure that the bolt area is clean of debris and that there is no ammunition in it. \n3) Trigger - KEEP YOUR FINGER OFF THE TRIGGER UNTIL YOU'RE AT THE FIRING POSITION AND READY TO FIRE even with safety. Remember safety is no accident. Remember to report all problems and safety issues to you range master. Also remember that YOU are a safety officer! only you can prevent accidents if you see an unsafe action yell \"CEASE FIRE!\"\n"}
{"id": "30830098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30830098", "title": "Natural farming", "text": "Natural farming\n\nNatural farming is an ecological farming approach established by Masanobu Fukuoka (1913–2008), a Japanese farmer and philosopher, introduced in his 1975 book \"The One-Straw Revolution\". Fukuoka described his way of farming as in Japanese. It is also referred to as \"the Fukuoka Method\", \"the natural way of farming\" or \"do-nothing farming\". The title refers not to lack of effort, but to the avoidance of manufactured inputs and equipment. Natural farming is related to fertility farming, organic farming, sustainable agriculture, agroecology, agroforestry, ecoagriculture and permaculture, but should be distinguished from biodynamic agriculture.\n\nThe system works along with the natural biodiversity of each farmed area, encouraging the complexity of living organisms—both plant and animal—that shape each particular ecosystem to thrive along with food plants. Fukuoka saw farming both as a means of producing food and as an aesthetic or spiritual approach to life, the ultimate goal of which was, \"the cultivation and perfection of human beings\". He suggested that farmers could benefit from closely observing local conditions. Natural farming is a closed system, one that demands no human-supplied inputs and mimics nature.\n\nFukuoka's ideas radically challenged conventions that are core to modern agro-industries; instead of promoting importation of nutrients and chemicals, he suggested an approach that takes advantage of the local environment. Although natural farming is considered a subset of organic farming, it differs greatly from conventional organic farming, which Fukuoka considered to be another modern technique that disturbs nature.\n\nFukuoka claimed that his approach prevents water pollution, biodiversity loss and soil erosion, while providing ample amounts of food.\n\nIn principal, practitioners of natural farming maintain that it is not a \"technique\" but a \"view\", or a way of seeing ourselves as a part of nature, rather than separate from or above it. Accordingly, the methods themselves vary widely depending on culture and local conditions.\n\nRather than offering a structured method, Fukuoka distilled the natural farming mindset into five principles:\n\nThough many of his plant varieties and practices relate specifically to Japan and even to local conditions in subtropical western Shikoku, his philosophy and the governing principles of his farming systems have been applied widely around the world, from Africa to the temperate northern hemisphere.\n\nPrincipally, natural farming minimises human labour and adopts, as closely as practical, nature's production of foods such as rice, barley, daikon or citrus in biodiverse agricultural ecosystems. Without plowing, seeds germinate well on the surface if site conditions meet the needs of the seeds placed there. Fukuoka used the presence of spiders in his fields as a key performance indicator of sustainability.\n\nFukuoka specifies that the ground remain covered by weeds, white clover, alfalfa, herbaceous legumes, and sometimes deliberately sown herbaceous plants. Ground cover is present along with grain, vegetable crops and orchards. Chickens run free in orchards and ducks and carp populate rice fields.\n\nPeriodically ground layer plants including weeds may be cut and left on the surface, returning their nutrients to the soil, while suppressing weed growth. This also facilitates the sowing of seeds in the same area because the dense ground layer hides the seeds from animals such as birds.\n\nFor summer rice and winter barley grain crops, ground cover enhances nitrogen fixation. Straw from the previous crop mulches the topsoil. Each grain crop is sown before the previous one is harvested by broadcasting the seed among the standing crop. Later, this method was reduced to a single direct seeding of clover, barley and rice over the standing heads of rice. The result is a denser crop of smaller, but highly productive and stronger plants.\n\nFukuoka's practice and philosophy emphasised small scale operation and challenged the need for mechanised farming techniques for high productivity, efficiency and economies of scale. While his family's farm was larger than the Japanese average, he used one field of grain crops as a small-scale example of his system.\n\nWidely regarded as the leading practitioner of the second-generation of natural farmers, Yoshikazu Kawaguchi is the instigator of Akame Natural Farm School, and a related network of volunteer-based \"no-tuition\" natural farming schools in Japan that numbers 40 locations and more than 900 concurrent students. Although Kawaguchi's practice is based on Fukuoka's principals, his methods differ notably from those of Fukuoka. He re-states the core values of natural farming as:\n\n\nKawaguchi's recognition outside of Japan has become wider after his appearance as the central character in the documentary \"\", through which his interviews were translated into several languages. He is the author of several books in Japan, though none have been officially translated into English.\n\nSince 2016, Kawaguchi is no longer directly instructing at the Akame school which he founded. He is still actively teaching however, holding open farm days at his own natural farm in Nara prefecture.\n\nIn ecology, climax ecosystems are mature ecosystems that have reached a high degree of stability, productivity and diversity (see old-growth forest). Natural farmers attempt to mimic those virtues, creating a comparable climax ecosystem, and employ advanced techniques such as intercropping, companion planting and integrated pest management.\n\nNatural farming recognizes soils as a fundamental natural asset. Ancient soils possess physical and chemical attributes that render them capable of generating and supporting life abundance. It can be argued that tilling actually degrades the delicate balance of a climax soil:\n\n\nFukuoka advocated avoiding any change in the natural landscape. This idea differs significantly from some recent permaculture practice that focuses on permaculture design, which may involve the change in landscape. For example, Sepp Holzer, an Austrian permaculture farmer, advocates the creation of terraces on slopes to control soil erosion. Fukuoka avoided the creation of terraces in his farm, even though terraces were common in China and Japan in his time. Instead, he prevented soil erosion by simply growing trees and shrubs on slopes.\n\nAlthough the term \"natural farming\" came into common use in the English language during the 1980s with the translation of the book \"One Straw Revolution\", the natural farming mindset itself has a long history throughout the world, spanning from historical Native American practices to modern day urban farms.\n\nSome variants, and their particularities include:\n\nIn 1951, Newman Turner advocated the practice of \"fertility farming\", a system featuring the use of a cover crop, no tillage, no chemical fertilizers, no pesticides, no weeding and no composting. Although Turner was a commercial farmer and did not practice random seeding of seed balls, his \"fertility farming\" principles share similarities with Fukuoka's system of natural farming. Turner also advocate a \"natural method\" of animal husbandry.\n\nRecent research in the field of traditional ecological knowledge finds that for over one hundred centuries, Native American tribes worked the land in strikingly similar ways to today's natural farmers. Author and researcher M. Kat Anderson writes that \"According to contemporary Native Americans, it is only through interaction and relationships with native plants that mutual respect is established.\"\n\nJapanese farmer and philosopher Mokichi Okada, conceived of a \"no fertilizer\" farming system in the 1930s that predated Fukuoka. Okada used the same Chinese characters as Fukuoka's \"natural farming\" however, they are translated into English slightly differently, as nature farming. Agriculture researcher Hu-lian Xu claims that \"nature farming\" is the correct literal translation of the Japanese term.\n\nIn India, natural farming is often referred to as \"Rishi Kheti\", a practice which includes ancient Vedic principles of farming including use of animal waste and herbs for controlling pests and promoting growth. The rishi or Indian sages use cow products like buttermilk, milk, curd and its waste urine for preparing growth promoters. The Rishi or Vedic farming is regarded as non-violent farming without any usage of chemical fertilizer and pesticides. They obtain high quality natural or organic produce having medicinal values. Today still a small number of farmers in Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu use this farming method in India.\n\nZero Budget Farming is a variation on natural farming developed in, and primarily practiced in southern India.It also called spiritual farming .The method involves mulching, intercropping, and the use of several preparations which include cow dung. These preparations, generated on-site, are central to the practice, and said to promote microbe and earthworm activity in the soil. Indian agriculturist Subhash Palekar has researched and written extensively on this method.\n\n"}
{"id": "54323549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54323549", "title": "ODocs Eye Care", "text": "ODocs Eye Care\n\noDocs Eye Care is a New Zealand social enterprise. It was founded in 2014 by Dr. Hong Sheng Chiong and Dr. Benjamin O'Keeffe in Wellington, New Zealand. The company sought to improve access to eye care by making affordable smartphone-based ophthalmic imaging devices. Their product, ODocs, was publicly disclosed in 2015 when he delivered the message at TEDxAuckland. In 2015, the company won the New Zealand Health Informatics Clinician challenge for the active project category.\n"}
{"id": "3154633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3154633", "title": "Oophoritis", "text": "Oophoritis\n\nOophoritis is an inflammation of the ovaries. \n\nIt is often seen in combination with salpingitis (inflammation of the fallopian tubes). It may develop in response to infection.\n\n"}
{"id": "25042426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25042426", "title": "Parable of the Wedding Feast", "text": "Parable of the Wedding Feast\n\nThe Parable of the Wedding Feast is one of the parables of Jesus and appears in the New Testament in . It directly precedes the Parable of the Great Banquet in Luke 14:15-24. In Matthew's Gospel, the parallel passage to Luke's Parable of the Great Banquet is also set as a wedding feast ().\n\nIn New Testament times, a wedding was a very sacred and joyous thing. Some even lasted up to or more than a week. When Jesus told this parable, many people were able to understand the picture he was trying to create because he used a Jewish Wedding as the setting of the story.\n\nLuke 14:11 says \"Every one that exalteth himself shall be humbled; but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted\"; this saying is also found in and . It is similar to .\n\n"}
{"id": "682382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682382", "title": "Phage therapy", "text": "Phage therapy\n\nPhage therapy or viral phage therapy is the therapeutic use of bacteriophages to treat pathogenic bacterial infections. Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture. If the target host of a phage therapy treatment is not an animal, the term \"biocontrol\" (as in phage-mediated biocontrol of bacteria) is usually employed, rather than \"phage therapy\".\n\nBacteriophages are much more specific than antibiotics. They are typically harmless not only to the host organism, but also to other beneficial bacteria, such as the gut flora, reducing the chances of opportunistic infections. They have a high therapeutic index, that is, phage therapy would be expected to give rise to few side effects. Because phages replicate \"in vivo\" (in cells of living organism), a smaller effective dose can be used. On the other hand, this specificity is also a disadvantage: a phage will only kill a bacterium if it is a match to the specific strain. Consequently, phage mixtures are often applied to improve the chances of success, or samples can be taken and appropriate phages identified and grown.\n\nPhages tend to be more successful than antibiotics where there is a biofilm covered by a polysaccharide layer, which antibiotics typically cannot penetrate. In the West, no therapies are currently authorized for use on humans.\n\nPhages are currently being used therapeutically to treat bacterial infections that do not respond to conventional antibiotics, particularly in Russia and Georgia. There is also a phage therapy unit in Wrocław, Poland, established 2005, the only such centre in a European Union country.\n\nThe discovery of bacteriophages was reported by the Englishman Frederick Twort in 1915 and the French-Canadian Felix d'Hérelle in 1917. D'Hérelle said that the phages always appeared in the stools of \"Shigella\" dysentery patients shortly before they began to recover. He \"quickly learned that bacteriophages are found wherever bacteria thrive: in sewers, in rivers that catch waste runoff from pipes, and in the stools of convalescent patients\". Phage therapy was immediately recognized by many to be a key way forward for the eradication of pathogenic bacterial infections. A Georgian, George Eliava, was making similar discoveries. He travelled to the Pasteur Institute in Paris where he met d'Hérelle, and in 1923 he founded the Eliava Institute in Tbilisi, Georgia, devoted to the development of phage therapy. Phage therapy is used in Russia, Georgia and Poland.\n\nIn Russia, extensive research and development soon began in this field. In the United States during the 1940s commercialization of phage therapy was undertaken by Eli Lilly and Company.\n\nWhile knowledge was being accumulated regarding the biology of phages and how to use phage cocktails correctly, early uses of phage therapy were often unreliable. Since the early 20th century, research into the development of viable therapeutic antibiotics had also been underway, and by 1942 the antibiotic penicillin G had been successfully purified and saw use during the Second World War. The drug proved to be extraordinarily effective in the treatment of injured Allied soldiers whose wounds had become infected. By 1944, large-scale production of Penicillin had been made possible, and in 1945 it became publicly available in pharmacies. Due to the drug's success, it was marketed widely in the U.S. and Europe, leading Western scientists to mostly lose interest in further use and study of phage therapy for some time.\n\nIsolated from Western advances in antibiotic production in the 1940s, Russian scientists continued to develop already successful phage therapy to treat the wounds of soldiers in field hospitals. During World War II, the Soviet Union used bacteriophages to treat many soldiers infected with various bacterial diseases e.g. dysentery and gangrene. Russian researchers continued to develop and to refine their treatments and to publish their research and results. However, due to the scientific barriers of the Cold War, this knowledge was not translated and did not proliferate across the world. A summary of these publications was published in English in 2009 in \"A Literature Review of the Practical Application of Bacteriophage Research\".\n\nThere is an extensive library and research center at the George Eliava Institute in Tbilisi, Georgia. Phage therapy is today a widespread form of treatment in that region.\n\nAs a result of the development of antibiotic resistance since the 1950s and an advancement of scientific knowledge, there has been renewed interest worldwide in the ability of phage therapy to eradicate bacterial infections and chronic polymicrobial biofilm (including in industrial situations).\n\nPhages have been investigated as a potential means to eliminate pathogens like \"Campylobacter\" in raw food and \"Listeria\" in fresh food or to reduce food spoilage bacteria. In agricultural practice phages were used to fight pathogens like \"Campylobacter\", \"Escherichia\" and \"Salmonella\" in farm animals, \"Lactococcus\" and \"Vibrio\" pathogens in fish from aquaculture and \"Erwinia\" and \"Xanthomonas\" in plants of agricultural importance. The oldest use was, however, in human medicine. Phages have been used against diarrheal diseases caused by \"E. coli\", \"Shigella\" or \"Vibrio\" and against wound infections caused by facultative pathogens of the skin like staphylococci and streptococci. Recently the phage therapy approach has been applied to systemic and even intracellular infections and the addition of non-replicating phage and isolated phage enzymes like lysins to the antimicrobial arsenal. However, actual proof for the efficacy of these phage approaches in the field or the hospital is not available.\n\nSome of the interest in the West can be traced back to 1994, when Soothill demonstrated (in an animal model) that the use of phages could improve the success of skin grafts by reducing the underlying \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" infection. Recent studies have provided additional support for these findings in the model system.\n\nAlthough not \"phage therapy\" in the original sense, the use of phages as delivery mechanisms for traditional antibiotics constitutes another possible therapeutic use. The use of phages to deliver antitumor agents has also been described in preliminary \"in vitro\" experiments for cells in tissue culture.\n\nIn June 2015 the European Medicines Agency hosted a one-day workshop on the therapeutic use of bacteriophages and in July 2015 the National Institutes of Health (USA) hosted a two-day workshop \"Bacteriophage Therapy: An Alternative Strategy to Combat Drug Resistance\".\n\nBacteriophage treatment offers a possible alternative to conventional antibiotic treatments for bacterial infection. It is conceivable that, although bacteria can develop resistance to phage, the resistance might be easier to overcome than resistance to antibiotics. Just as bacteria can evolve resistance, viruses can evolve to overcome resistance.\n\nBacteriophages are very specific, targeting only one or a few strains of bacteria. Traditional antibiotics have more wide-ranging effect, killing both harmful bacteria and useful bacteria such as those facilitating food digestion. The species and strain specificity of bacteriophages makes it unlikely that harmless or useful bacteria will be killed when fighting an infection.\n\nA few research groups in the West are engineering a broader spectrum phage, and also a variety of forms of MRSA treatments, including impregnated wound dressings, preventative treatment for burn victims, phage-impregnated sutures. Enzybiotics are a new development at Rockefeller University that create enzymes from phage. Purified recombinant phage enzymes can be used as separate antibacterial agents in their own right.\n\nPhage Therapy also has the potential of preventing or treating infectious diseases of corals. This could assist with decline of coral around the world.\n\nThe simplest method of phage treatment involves collecting local samples of water likely to contain high quantities of bacteria and bacteriophages, for example effluent outlets, sewage and other sources. The samples are taken and applied to the bacteria that are to be destroyed which have been cultured on growth medium.\n\nIf the bacteria die, as usually happens, the mixture is centrifuged; the phages collect on the top of the mixture and can be drawn off.\n\nThe phage solutions are then tested to see which ones show growth suppression effects (lysogeny) or destruction (lysis) of the target bacteria. The phage showing lysis are then amplified on cultures of the target bacteria, passed through a filter to remove all but the phages, then distributed.\n\nPhages are \"bacterium-specific\" and it is therefore necessary in many cases to take a swab from the patient and culture it prior to treatment. Occasionally, isolation of therapeutic phages can require a few months to complete, but clinics generally keep supplies of phage cocktails for the most common bacterial strains in a geographical area.\n\nPhage cocktails are sold in pharmacies in eastern countries. The composition of bacteriophagics cocktails has been periodically modified to add phages effective against emerging pathogenic strains.\n\nPhages in practice are applied orally, topically on infected wounds or spread onto surfaces, or used during surgical procedures. Injection is rarely used, avoiding any risks of trace chemical contaminants that may be present from the bacteria amplification stage, and recognizing that the immune system naturally fights against viruses introduced into the bloodstream or lymphatic system.\n\nIn 2007 a Phase 1/2 clinical trial was completed at the Royal National Throat, Nose and Ear Hospital, London, for \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" infections (otitis). Documentation of the Phase-1/Phase-2 study was published in August 2009 in the journal Clinical Otolaryngology.\n\nPhase 1 clinical trials have now been completed in the Southwest Regional Wound Care Center, Lubbock, Texas for an approved cocktail of phages against bacteria, including \"P. aeruginosa\", \"Staphylococcus aureus\" and \"Escherichia coli\" (better known as \"E. coli\"). The cocktail of phages for the clinical trials was developed and supplied by Intralytix.\n\nReviews of phage therapy indicate that more clinical and microbiological research is needed to meet current standards.\n\nPhages can usually be freeze-dried and turned into pills without materially reducing efficiency. Temperature stability up to 55 °C and shelf lives of 14 months have been shown for some types of phages in pill form.\n\nApplication in liquid form is possible, stored preferably in refrigerated vials.\n\nOral administration works better when an antacid is included, as this increases the number of phages surviving passage through the stomach.\n\nTopical administration often involves application to gauzes that are laid on the area to be treated.\n\nIV phage drip therapy was successfully used to treat a patient with MDR \"Acinetobacter baumannii\" in Thornton Hospital at UC San Diego.\n\nThe high bacterial strain specificity of phage therapy may make it necessary for clinics to make different cocktails for treatment of the same infection or disease because the bacterial components of such diseases may differ from region to region or even person to person. In addition, this means that 'banks' containing many different phages must be kept and regularly updated with new phages.\n\nFurther, bacteria can evolve different receptors either before or during treatment; this can prevent phages from completely eradicating bacteria for as bacteria evolves, bacteriophages must evolve as well to keep up with the ever changing bacteria. In the case all bacteria is eliminated, the specific phage might evolve and attack good bacteria in the specific area of injection.\n\nThe need for banks of phages makes regulatory testing for safety harder and more expensive under current rules in most countries. Such a process would make difficult the large-scale use of phage therapy. Additionally, patent issues (specifically on living organisms) may complicate distribution for pharmaceutical companies wishing to have exclusive rights over their \"invention\", which would discourage a commercial corporation from investing capital in this.\n\nAs has been known for at least thirty years, mycobacteria such as \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" have specific bacteriophages. No lytic phage has yet been discovered for \"Clostridium difficile\", which is responsible for many nosocomial diseases, but some \"temperate phages\" (integrated in the genome, also called lysogenic) are known for this species; this opens encouraging avenues but with additional risks as discussed below.\n\nFunding for phage therapy research and clinical trials is generally insufficient and difficult to obtain, since it is a lengthy and complex process to patent bacteriophage products. Scientists comment that 'the biggest hurdle is regulatory', whereas an official view is that individual phages would need proof individually because it would be too complicated to do as a combination, with many variables. Due to the specificity of phages, phage therapy would be most effective with a cocktail injection, which is generally rejected by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Researchers and observers predict that for phage therapy to be successful the FDA must change its regulatory stance on combination drug cocktails. Public awareness and education about phage therapy are generally limited to scientific or independent research rather than mainstream media.\n\nThe negative public perception of viruses may also play a role in the reluctance to embrace phage therapy.\n\nApproval of phage therapy for use in humans has not been given in Western countries with a few exceptions. In the United States, Washington and Oregon law allows naturopathic physicians to use any therapy that is legal any place in the world on an experimental basis, and in Texas phages are considered natural substances and can be used in addition to (but not as a replacement for) traditional therapy (they have been used routinely in a wound care clinic in Lubbock, TX, since 2006).\n\nIn 2013 \"the 20th biennial Evergreen International Phage Meeting ... conference drew 170 participants from 35 countries, including leaders of companies and institutes involved with human phage therapies from France, Australia, Georgia, Poland and the United States.\"\n\nMuch of the difficulty in obtaining regulatory approval is proving to be the risks of using a self-replicating entity which has the capability to evolve.\n\nAs with antibiotic therapy and other methods of countering bacterial infections, endotoxins are released by the bacteria as they are destroyed within the patient (Herxheimer reaction). This can cause symptoms of fever; in extreme cases toxic shock (a problem also seen with antibiotics) is possible. Janakiraman Ramachandran argues that this complication can be avoided in those types of infection where this reaction is likely to occur by using genetically engineered bacteriophages which have had their gene responsible for producing endolysin removed. Without this gene the host bacterium still dies but remains intact because the lysis is disabled. On the other hand, this modification stops the exponential growth of phages, so one administered phage means one dead bacterial cell. Eventually these dead cells are consumed by the normal house-cleaning duties of the phagocytes, which utilise enzymes to break down the whole bacterium and its contents into harmless proteins, polysaccharides and lipids.\n\nTemperate (or Lysogenic) bacteriophages are not generally used therapeutically, as this group can act as a way for bacteria to exchange DNA; this can help spread antibiotic resistance or even, theoretically, make the bacteria pathogenic (see Cholera). Carl Merril claimed that harmless strains of corynebacterium may have been converted into \"C. diphtheriae\" that \"probably killed a third of all Europeans who came to North America in the seventeenth century\". Fortunately, many phages seem to be lytic only with negligible probability of becoming lysogenic.\n\nBrigham Young University has been researching the use of phage therapy to treat American foulbrood in honeybees. Phage therapy is also being investigated for potential applications in aquaculture.\n\nThe 1925 novel and 1926 Pulitzer prize winner \"Arrowsmith\" used phage therapy as a plot point.\n\nGreg Bear's 2002 novel \"Vitals\" features phage therapy, based on Soviet research, used to transfer genetic material.\n\nThe 2012 collection of military history essays about the changing role of women in warfare, \"Women in War – from home front to front line\" includes a chapter featuring phage therapy: \"Chapter 17: Women who thawed the Cold War\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45353992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45353992", "title": "Pharmacy Council Ghana", "text": "Pharmacy Council Ghana\n\nThe Ghana Pharmacy Council is a statutory regulatory body established by an Act of Parliament of Ghana , Part IV of The Health Professions Regulatory Bodies Act, 2013 (Act 857).It is located in Accra, the capital of Ghana.\nIts core function is to secure Public interest in the highest standards in the practice of Pharmacy\n"}
{"id": "3396759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3396759", "title": "Pooper-scooper", "text": "Pooper-scooper\n\nA pooper-scooper, or poop scoop, is a device used to pick up animal feces from public places and yards, particularly those of dogs. Pooper-scooper devices often have a bag or bag attachment. 'Poop bags' are alternatives to pooper scoopers, and are simply a bag, usually turned inside out, to carry the feces to a proper disposal area. Sometimes, the person performing the cleanup is also known as the pooper-scooper.\n\nThe invention is credited to Brooke Miller, of Anaheim, California. The design she patented is a metal bin with a rake-like edge attached to a wooden stick. It also includes a rake-like device to scoop the poop into the scooper and a hatch that can be attached to a garbage bag that fits onto the base. The generic term \"pooper-scooper\" has been included in dictionaries since the early 1970s.\n\nA number of jurisdictions, including New York City, have laws requiring pet owners to clean up after their pets:\na) A person who owns, possesses or controls a dog, cat or other animal shall not permit the animal to commit a nuisance on a sidewalk of any public place, on a floor, wall, stairway or roof of any public or private premises used in common by the public, or on a fence, wall or stairway of a building abutting on a public .\nAuthorized employees of New York City Departments of Health (including Animal Care & Control), of Sanitation, or of Parks and Recreation can issue tickets.\n\nSuch laws are often nicknamed \"pooper-scooper laws\", though the laws only stipulate that dog owners remove their dogs' feces, not the method or device used (thus using a hand-held plastic bag to remove feces complies with these laws).\n\nDog droppings are one of the leading sources of \"E. coli\" (fecal coliforms) bacterial pollution, \"Toxocara canis\" and \"Neospora caninum\" helminth parasite pollution. One gram of dog feces contains over 20,000,000 \"E. coli\" cells. While an individual animal's deposit of feces will not measurably affect the environment, the cumulative effect of thousands of dogs and cats in a metropolitan area can create serious problems due to contamination of soil and water supplies. The runoff from neglected pet waste contaminates water, creating health hazards for people, fish, ducks, etc.\n\nThe situation is particularly dire in Germany, where an estimated 1400 tonnes of feces are deposited daily on public property. A citizen commission (2005) overwhelmingly recommended a plan that would break even at about seven months. DNA samples would be required when pet licenses come up for renewal. Within a year, a database of some 12,500 registration-required canine residents would be available to sanitation workers with sample-test kits. Evidence would be submitted to a forensics laboratory where technicians could readily match the waste to its dog. The prospect of a prompt fine equivalent to $600 US (at 2005 exchange rate) would help assure preventive compliance, as well as cover costs.\nIn adult dogs, the infection by \"Toxocara canis\" is usually asymptomatic but can be fatal in puppies. A number of various vertebrates, including humans, and some invertebrates can become infected by \"Toxocara canis\". Humans are infected, like other paratenic hosts, by ingestion of embryonated \"T. canis\" eggs. The disease caused by migrating \"T. canis\" larvae (toxocariasis) results in visceralis larva migrans and ocularis larva migrans. Clinically infected people have helminth infection and rarely blindness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10462215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10462215", "title": "Poulaphouca Reservoir", "text": "Poulaphouca Reservoir\n\nPoulaphouca Reservoir, officially Pollaphuca (), is an active reservoir (for both water supply and electricity generation) and area of wild bird conservation in west County Wicklow, Ireland. It is also known locally as \"Blessington Lakes\".\n\nIt was created between 1937 and 1947, with flooding beginning in at 10 am on 3 March 1940 by damming the River Liffey at Poulaphouca as part of the Electricity Supply Board project to build a second hydroelectric station in Ireland, Ardnacrusha on the River Shannon being the first.\n\nThe reservoir is one of two major sources of Dublin's water supply, the other major supply being Vartry Reservoir in east Wicklow. \n\nBetween 1938 and 1940, 76 houses were demolished, and the bridges at Humphreystown, Baltyboys and Burgage blown up, in anticipation of the flooding of the valley for the Poulaphouca hydroelectric powerstation.\n\nThe reservoir is sometimes known as \"lakes\" due to its shape, which arises because it lies in not one but two river valleys - that of the Liffey and, primarily, that of the King River. The King's River joined the Liffey at Baltiboys, at which point it was the larger flow, and when the Liffey was dammed upstream of the confluence, the King's River Valley was flooded far to the south.\n\nA ridge of land, on which the village of Valleymount lies, divides the southern part of the reservoir.\n\nThe goosander, recently arrived as a breeding species in Ireland, can sometimes be seen here.\n\n"}
{"id": "53984662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53984662", "title": "Rabies in Haiti", "text": "Rabies in Haiti\n\nRabies is a viral disease that exists in Haiti and throughout the world. It often causes fatal inflammation of the brain in humans and other mammals, such as dogs and mongooses in Haiti. The term \"rabies\" is derived from a Latin word that means \"to rage\"; rabid animals sometimes appear to be angry. Early symptoms can include fever and tingling at the site of exposure, followed by one or more of the following symptoms: violent movements, uncontrolled excitement, fear of water, an inability to move parts of the body, confusion, and loss of consciousness. Once symptoms appear, death is nearly always the outcome. The time period between contracting the disease and showing symptoms is usually one to three months; however, this time period can vary from less than a week to more than a year. The time between contraction and the onset of symptoms is dependent on the distance the virus must travel to reach the central nervous system.\n\nHaiti is one of five remaining countries in the Americas where canine rabies is still a problem. It has the highest rate of human rabies deaths in the western hemisphere with an estimated two deaths each week. Only about seven deaths are reported to health authorities each year due to poor surveillance, limitations in diagnostic capacity, and lack of awareness and education about the disease among Haitians.\n\nGlobally, 59,000 people die from rabies each year. This is the equivalent of one person dying every nine minutes, with half of the people who die from rabies being under the age of 15. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the Pan American Center of foot-and-mouth disease (PANAFTOSA) led a mission to eliminate dog-mediated rabies in the American region by 2015. These organizations are cognizant of the regional control of rabies. The PAHO and PANAFTOSA visited Haiti in early December, 2013, and the objectives of the mission were to assess the status of Haiti’s rabies program as delivered by the Haitian Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) and the Ministry of Health (MSPP). The mission was to seek opportunities for collaboration between Haiti, Brazil, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Haiti.\n\nEven in 2017, rabies in Haiti is still identified as a national problem, even with PEP proposed.\n\nIn Haiti, few cases of human rabies are reported to health authorities. In 2016, a report of a woman who had been exposed to rabies three months prior and was showing symptoms went to the hospital where no treatment was administered to her. Even after being reported to both the CDC and the national Department of Epidemiology and Laboratory Research (DELR), as required by Haiti's surveillance program, the woman ended up passing away. This goes to show the lack of communication and effectiveness in caring for human subjects in Haiti, and the continued focus is on eliminating dog-mediated rabies altogether.\n\nHuman diploid cell culture rabies vaccine (HDCV) and purified chick embryo cell culture rabies vaccine (PCEC) are used to treat post-exposure immunization against a human rabies infection. Recommendations for treatment are given by governmental health care organizations and in health literature. Health care providers are encouraged to administer a regimen of four 1-mL doses of HDCV or PCEC vaccines. According to the CDC, these injections should be administered intramuscularly to persons who have not yet been vaccinated for rabies.\n\nFor those who are unvaccinated, the first of four doses is administered immediately after exposure to the rabies virus. Additional doses are given three, seven, and fourteen days after the first vaccination. Exposure usually means a bite from a rabid animal.\n\nAt an individual patient level, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) consists of local treatment of the wound, vaccination, and administration of immunoglobulin, if necessary [3]. At the program level, several components are critical, including: adequate and prompt recognition of the need for PEP by the public, if exposed, and by health officials, prompt and sufficient availability of high-quality PEP, and adequate follow-up of PEP use. Health officials' awareness of the need for PEP after a dog bite can only be achieved if the exposure is attended to immediately and communicated effectively.\n\nDog vaccination is most effective for controlling dog-mediated rabies. This can be seen throughout the American region where medical authorities have achieved rabies control.\n\nIn Haiti, the CDC is mainly focusing on dog-mediated rabies. Specifically in collaboration with the NGO Christian Veterinary Mission, the CDC has trained, to date, more than 20 MARNDR laboratory personnel in rabies diagnostic methods (Direct Fluorescent Antibody [DFA] and Direct Rapid Immunohistochemistry Test [dRIT]). The organizations have also improved a diagnostic laboratory in Port-au-Prince by providing it with advanced equipment. The surveillance system is a bite-reporting model where the public and medical providers report bite events to rabies control officers. In addition, more than 30 field veterinary and health agents were trained in rabies surveillance, in support of this effort.\n\nIn 2011, the CDC along with MARNDR initiated a five-year rabies infrastructure improvement program that focused on surveillance, diagnostics, and education. The MSPP also helped out by improving public education on rabies. Because Haiti has a gross national income per capita of US $1,035, it is the only country in the American region that is part of the group of low-income countries. The World Bank has classified 33 other low-income countries in Africa and Asia, where dog-mediated rabies is a major problem and results in thousands of deaths annually. The persistence of dog rabies is connected to limited resources and weak governance.\n\nIn conducting a rabies assessment, rabies control officers try to locate the offending animal. Animals that have bitten a victim are either euthanized and tested or quarantined for 14 days while remaining in their owner's residence. In addition, animals who show signs of rabies are tested, regardless of human exposure. This surveillance program is restricted to two of the ten geographical departments of the country (West and Artibonite) for security reasons. The area includes approximately 50 percent of the Haitian population. The CDC and the NGO Christian Veterinary Mission support the mission by maintaining four Haitian staff in the West Department and three in the Artibonite Department, respectively. Results of this mission showed the level of under-reporting of canine rabies. Specifically, six cases of rabid dogs in early December, 2012, were reported for the country.\n\nDuring the first nine months of the surveillance mission, 42 rabid dogs were identified in just three communities in Port-au-Prince during the first nine months in 2012. That being said, no laboratory-based surveillance exists for the human population that is exposed to rabies and all diagnoses are based on clinical history. This is because of the lack of laboratory facilities, making it difficult to identify evidence for the virus in humans and shed light on the disease as a whole for them, in Haiti. There are insufficient numbers of pathologists to collect samples for human rabies, as well. There do exist other methods for viral antigen detection that may merit study.\n\nIn 2013, the CDC and its partners began an animal rabies surveillance program in several regions of Haiti and saw an 18-fold rise in detection of rabid animals. In 2015, the CDC evaluated Haiti’s canine rabies vaccination program and found that only 45 percent of dogs were vaccinated, far short of the 70 percent needed to stop the spread of rabies in the dog population. In addition, the researchers found that Haiti had nearly 1,000,000 dogs, twice as many as previously thought.\n\nThe CDC and its partners had already begun a dog vaccination trial in evaluating the best vaccination methods for dogs in Haiti. As a part of this effort, they vaccinated 3,000 dogs in just four days during the summer of 2016 and planned to vaccinate a total of 8,000 dogs as part of this campaign.\n\nIn Haiti, the control of dog rabies is led by the MARNDR while the MSPP manages health-care and rabies prevention in the human population. The separation of these ministries makes it easier for responsibilities to be divided among them. Communication about finding the source of exposure and implementing control methods to prevent further cross-species transmission is also more effective. This task is difficult enough within departments of the same ministry, (e.g., health care and epidemiology), which can be seen in experiences elsewhere. This is why a comprehensive evaluation of Haiti's rabies program should heavily consider the costs and benefits of this separation of responsibilities between the two ministries early on.\n\nDespite a planned mass vaccination for dogs in 2013, no campaign was actually conducted. Authorities in Haiti relied on funds donated by the World Bank for the purchase of approximately 500,000 doses of inactivated, injectable vaccine (IMRAB by Merial). Although the funds were awarded in April 2013, the vaccine itself did not arrive until 2014 when the dog vaccination finally went underway in September 2014. The process as a whole was expected to terminate in January 2015. The lack of manpower needed to deliver faster implementation made it impossible for the campaign to be completed in less than four months.\n\nAnother challenge presented is vaccination failure, which usually leads to recurrent rabies in dogs and inconsistent control of the disease. The failures that disrupt annual campaigns or have insufficient coverage, for example, are seen as the main cause for this problem. Another factor is that in Haiti, dog vaccinations have been inconsistently applied. Back in 2012 when the last mass vaccination was led by the MARNDR, approximately 400,000 dogs were vaccinated. With this in mind, considering a current human population of approximately 10,000,000, a relation of one dog per ten people, and aiming to attain 70 percent of vaccine coverage, 700,000 dogs would have to be vaccinated. Assessing the effectiveness of this vaccination campaign is difficult because the dog population figures are unreliable (estimates range from 800,000 to 1,200,000 dogs), and though the overall success seems to be limited.\n\nThe number of rabid dogs detected by the MARNDR, MSPP, and CDC is a huge risk to people and is not accurately reflected in their surveillance figures. Although international support is common in both technical help and donations, it is not comprehensive. In addition, the MARNDR, MSPP, and other actors do not communicate effectively because of human resource limitations. That being said, the 2015 elimination goal in the region was compromised and control of the disease could not yet be achieved, despite the efforts of resolute national officials. In conclusion, rabies in the dog population is still a problem and major threat to the Haitian population.\n\n"}
{"id": "27913343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27913343", "title": "SUPRE (suicide)", "text": "SUPRE (suicide)\n\nSUPRE is a World Health Organization suicide prevention program. SUPRE gathers statistics and has launched a five-continent study of suicide. SUPRE also publishes advice for media organizations to follow in order to prevent copycat suicides.\n"}
{"id": "39576687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39576687", "title": "Sahi school health programme", "text": "Sahi school health programme\n\nSahi (from the Arabic word صاحي meaning healthy) is a non profit school health programme in Ras al-Khaimah, United Arab Emirates initiated in 2011 in collaboration with Arabian Healthcare Group, and the pilot was implemented in September 2012. Its objectives, services and themes are to promote preventive health services, and improve and promote health and safety-related attributes and behaviors in schools. It will also provide health screenings, health reports, health education workshops, and individual and/or family counselling.\nThe programme is run by the Arabian Healthcare Group and headed by Francesca Rodgers, a therapist from the United Kingdom. The medical side of the programme is supported by staff from RAK Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "16823723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16823723", "title": "Tessa Jowell", "text": "Tessa Jowell\n\nTessa Jane Helen Douglas Jowell, Baroness Jowell, (; 17 September 1947 – 12 May 2018) was a British Labour politician who was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Dulwich and West Norwood from 1997 to 2015, having previously been elected as the MP for Dulwich in 1992.\n\nShe held a number of major government ministerial positions, as well as opposition appointments, during this period. Her most senior position in Government was as Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, a post she held from 2001 to 2007. A member of both the Blair and Brown Cabinets, she was also Minister for the Olympics (2005–10) and Shadow Minister for the Olympics and Shadow Minister for London until September 2012, resigning after the London Olympic Games.\n\nA Privy Counsellor since 1998, she was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 2012. She stood down from the House of Commons at the 2015 general election.\n\nShe was nominated for life peerage in the 2015 Dissolution Honours and was raised to the peerage as Baroness Jowell, of Brixton in the London Borough of Lambeth, on 27 October 2015. In September 2015, she was unsuccessful in seeking to be selected as the Labour Party's official candidate in the London mayoral election, 2016, coming second to Sadiq Khan in the contest of six candidates.\n\nTessa Jane Helen Douglas Palmer was born at Middlesex Hospital in Marylebone, London, to Dr. Kenneth Nelson Veysey Palmer, a physician, and his wife, Rosemary (née Douglas), a radiographer.\n\nShe was educated at the independent St Margaret's School for Girls in Aberdeen, the University of Aberdeen (where she studied arts, psychology and sociology) and the University of Edinburgh (where she studied for an MA in Social Administration). She became a social worker, initially working in the Craigmillar area of Edinburgh and as a childcare officer in Lambeth, before training at Goldsmiths College as a psychiatric social worker. She subsequently worked at the Maudsley Hospital, and later became assistant director of the mental health charity Mind.\n\nDuring this time, Jowell took her first steps into electoral politics, being elected to represent Swiss Cottage on Camden London Borough Council in the early 1970s, and becoming Chair of the Camden Borough Council's Social Services Committee at the age of 25. In 1978, she was the Labour Party candidate in a by-election in Ilford North but lost Labour's majority to the Conservatives. She stood again in Ilford North at the 1979 general election, also unsuccessfully.\n\nElected as MP for Dulwich at the 1992 general election, Jowell was successively appointed as an Opposition Spokesperson on Health, an Opposition Whip and Spokesperson on Women, before returning to the Shadow Health team in 1996. After boundary changes, she was the MP for Dulwich and West Norwood from 1997.\n\nJowell was appointed as Minister of State in the Department of Health after the 1997 Labour electoral landslide. She moved, again as Minister of State, to the Department for Education and Employment in 1999.\nShe was appointed Secretary of State at the Department for Culture, Media and Sport after the 2001 election, replacing the sacked Chris Smith. One of her main concerns as Culture Secretary was television broadcasting. She blocked the BBC's plans for the digital channel BBC3, on the grounds that they were insufficiently different from commercial offerings, and imposed extra conditions on BBC News 24 after it was criticized on the same grounds by the Lambert Report. She was responsible for the Communications Act 2003 which established a new media regulator, OFCOM. It also relaxed regulations on ownership of British television stations, though, following a rebellion in the House of Lords, a 'public interest' test was introduced as a compromise.\n\nIn July 2003, she launched an overhaul of the National Lottery. She dealt with complaints that the lottery had been directed to fund programmes that should have been covered by mainstream taxation. In 2001 Arts Council England announced changes to how funding would be distributed and she supported this. She oversaw the restructuring of the Arts funding system but lost out in the 2004/5 spending round, when there was a cut in her departmental budget. In 2004 a tax loophole was closed around film production in Britain.\n\nIn 2004, Jowell faced resistance to proposals for a series of so-called \"super casinos\", to be sanctioned as part of the Gambling Act 2005 which liberalised Britain's gaming laws. Although problem gambling has ruined the lives of many ordinary people, in the run up to the Bill, Jowell dismissed much of the criticism as being elitist, commenting that \"opponents of the Government's gambling reforms are snobs who want to deny ordinary people the right to bet\". Former Labour Welfare Minister Frank Field said her comments were crass, declaring, \"I think this whole New Labour line that you insult people rather than engage in argument is deeply disturbing\".\n\nIn March 2005, Jowell announced a new governance system for the BBC: the BBC Trust, to replace the long-established Board of Governors. The trust was introduced in 2007 but in 2012 was shown to be 'not fit for purpose', leading to the resignation of the Director General.\n\nIn Gordon Brown's reshuffle in June 2007, following his succession as Labour leader and Prime Minister, Jowell was demoted from her position as Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. She retained her Olympics portfolio, however, and was also appointed Paymaster General and Minister for London, being allowed to attend Cabinet, although not as a full member. She was further demoted on 3 October 2008, losing her Minister for London role to Tony McNulty, and being allowed to attend cabinet only when her area of responsibility was on the agenda. In his 2009 reshuffle, Brown reappointed her to the Cabinet as Minister for the Cabinet Office.\n\nIn the 2012 Birthday Honours, Jowell was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) for \"political and charitable services\", in particular for her contribution to delivering the London 2012 Olympics.\n\nJowell was a zealous supporter of the then Prime Minister Tony Blair, reportedly saying on one occasion that she would \"jump under a bus\" for him. She was very supportive of New Labour and was fully loyal to its agenda, earning herself a strong reputation as a Blairite. In 2007, she supported Hazel Blears for the deputy leadership of the Labour Party. In 2009, she was mentioned as a possible Cabinet minister who might resign over the leadership of Gordon Brown in order to trigger a leadership contest – a suggestion which proved unfounded. In opposition, Jowell supported David Miliband's campaign to become Leader of the Labour Party, but served in Ed Miliband's Shadow Cabinet when he became Leader of HM Opposition. In 2010 she briefly appeared as a landmark on Google Maps, as a result of a prank.\n\nShe was involved in the Blue Labour movement in the Labour Party, and was a contributor to \"The Purple Book\", drawing on her background on the Right of the Labour Party. Jowell set up the Sure Start programme, Jowell said, \"I am very proud of setting up Sure Start [the national nurture and childcare programme], because the first three years of a child’s life are absolutely critical in determining the chances they have subsequently.\"\n\nJowell was in charge of London's successful bid to host the 2012 Olympics. She came up with the idea in 2002, during her time as Culture Secretary, when she said there was very little support from within the Cabinet, with many colleagues thinking that Paris' bid would win. Jowell convinced the Government to support the bid, however, and went ahead with it. In 2004, she launched the bid and, when the Games were awarded to London, she was appointed Olympics Minister (in addition to her responsibilities as Culture Secretary), and held full ministerial responsibility for the bid from 2006. Despite being moved from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport in 2007, she retained her position as Olympics Minister throughout Labour's time in office.\n\nFollowing the general election of May 2010, at which Labour lost power, she became Shadow Olympics Minister. She remained on the 2012 Olympics Organising Committee, with Lord Coe and Jeremy Hunt. She was appointed Deputy Mayor of the Olympics Village, being responsible for making the Olympics take place. She resigned her role as Shadow Minister for the Olympics in September 2012, and returned to the House of Commons backbenches.\n\nIn November 2013, Jowell announced that she would not contest the next general election.\n\nIn May 2015, she launched her campaign to be selected as the Labour Party's official candidate in the 2016 election for Mayor of London. Six candidates stood for selection and in September the process concluded with her coming second to Sadiq Khan. Had she been elected as Mayor she would have died in office almost exactly half way into her term.\n\nShe was nominated for life peerage in the 2015 Dissolution Honours by the Labour leader. She was raised to the peerage as Baroness Jowell of Brixton in the London Borough of Lambeth, on 27 October 2015.\n\nIn January 2018, Jowell got a standing ovation in the House of Lords for a speech. She began by speaking of how she came to be diagnosed with an extremely lethal form of brain cancer called glioblastoma multiforme. She went on to advocate making more cancer treatments available in the NHS. She said, \"In the end, what gives a life meaning is not only how it is lived, but how it draws to a close. I hope that this debate will give hope to other cancer patients, like me, so that we can live well together with cancer, not just dying of it. All of us, for longer.\"\n\nJowell's husband David Mills was an international corporate lawyer who has acted for Silvio Berlusconi, then the Italian Prime Minister. Mills was investigated in Italy for money laundering and alleged tax fraud.\n\nJowell was investigated by the Cabinet Secretary Gus O'Donnell over the allegations surrounding her husband, because of a possible conflict of interest between her personal life and ministerial duties. O'Donnell stated that, \"it is the Prime Minister, not me, who, constitutionally, is the right and proper person to take a view on matters arising based on the Ministerial Code\" in his letter, and Tony Blair decided that she was \"not in breach\" of the ministers' code of conduct. On 4 March 2006, it was announced that Jowell and Mills had separated, after the allegations had begun to damage her political standing. Jowell said \"although we are separated I have never doubted his innocence\". Skepticism that Jowell was unaware of the details of her husband's dealings with Berlusconi led to a \"Private Eye\" front cover of her with a speech bubble saying: \"I have never met my husband\". Mills allegedly admitted to being \"an idiot\", and has expressed his remorse about the impact of his dealings upon his wife. The separation had effectively ended by September 2012.\n\nOn 17 February 2009, an Italian court sentenced Mills to four years and six months in jail after finding him guilty of accepting a bribe from Berlusconi to give false evidence on his behalf during corruption trials which had taken place in 1997 and 1998. His defence counsel said that the sentence went \"against the logic and dynamic of the evidence presented\". The judgment was appealed by Mills. On 27 October 2009, the Italian Appeal Court upheld his conviction and prison sentence. Mills confirmed that he would initiate a second and final appeal to the Cassation Court. On 25 February 2010, the Italian Cassation Court (the second and last court of appeal under Italian law) dissolved the case because of the statute of limitations. For this type of crime, in Italian law, a case expires after 10 years. Mills argued that he received the money in 1999, and not 2000 as Prosecutors had previously argued, thus taking advantage of the statute of limitations.\n\nIn 2001, Jowell was widely criticised for 'interfering' in Independent Television Commission (ITC) rulings on complaints regarding \"Brass Eye\". \"The Guardian\" newspaper suggested that \"for the Culture Secretary to speak directly to the head of a TV network about a specific programme smacks of the Soviet commissar and the state broadcaster\". The ITC reminded Jowell that she should not be interfering in their processes, resulting in a Channel Four interviewer suggesting Jowell and her colleagues \"must feel like idiots\".\n\nIn 2006, Jowell was criticised for projected cost over-runs on the London 2012 Summer Olympics project, which came under the supervision of her former department.\n\nShe was among a number of ministers accused of hypocrisy for opposing Post Office closures in their own constituencies while supporting the government's closure strategy at the national level.\n\nJowell was Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport during the \"News of the World\" newspaper phone-hacking scandal (pre-2007). In January 2007, Clive Goodman, the \"News of the World's\" 'royal editor', was jailed for four months, and Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator employed by the \"News of the World\", was jailed for six months.\n\nIn May 2014 a temporary personal assistant to Richard Scudamore, chief executive of England's Premier League, read private emails between Scudamore and colleagues and friends. These included comments about women's football, which the assistant felt to be inappropriate. She passed them on to a national newspaper, the \"Daily Mirror\". Jowell defended the reading and passing-on of the emails, declaring that, \"in the world of social media and email, there is no public and private\".\n\nJowell served as a Richard L. and Ronay A. Menschel Senior Leadership Fellow at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in 2016. In this role, she taught a course in the Department of Health Policy and Management called, \"Health Policy and Leadership: Why do we know so much and do so little?\" Jowell also actively served on the Advisory Board of the Ministerial Leadership in Health Program, a joint initiative of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the John F. Kennedy School of Government.\n\nJowell's first marriage was to fellow Camden Councillor Roger Jowell in 1970; this was dissolved in 1976, but she continued to use his surname. Roger Jowell co-founded and directed Social & Community Planning Research (SCPR), now the National Centre for Social Research, known for its British Social Attitudes Surveys.\n\nShe married David Mills on 17 March 1979. They separated in March 2006, following the controversy over Mills's links to Berlusconi. Their professed hopes to \"restore their relationship over time\", rather than seek divorce, caused some to regard this as a politically expedient gesture to save her political career. Jowell said on Radio 4's \"Woman's Hour\" programme in September 2012 that she was seeing Mills regularly, saying that they had \"reached a state of stability which I never thought possible\". She had a son and daughter, as well as three stepchildren (including journalist Eleanor Mills) from her husband's first marriage. In April 2016, her son Matthew Mills married food writer Ella Woodward, who is also his business partner. Her daughter Jess Mills is a singer.\n\nIn January 2011, during the \"News of the World\" phone hacking affair, it was revealed that Jowell had contacted lawyers as she attempted to find out who hacked into her voicemails on 28 separate occasions during 2006. Jowell contacted police in late January 2011 to inform them that there had recently been an unsuccessful attempt to listen to voicemail messages on her phone.\n\nOn her 70th birthday on 17 September 2017, her family made public the news that she had been suffering from brain cancer since May of that year. On her Twitter account, she stated \"Thank you for so much love and support on my birthday. More people living longer better lives with cancer is my birthday pledge\". Jowell wanted more treatment for cancer patients, knowledge about cancer treatment shared more effectively, speedier diagnosis, greater access to experimental treatments, and improved survival rates. After Jowell's death, Downing Street announced that in tribute to her, brain cancer government funding would be doubled and the so-called \"gold standard dye\" tumour diagnosis tests would be extended to all NHS hospitals.\n\nJowell suffered a brain haemorrhage on 11 May 2018 and was in a coma until her death the following day at the age of 70.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31842938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31842938", "title": "Tine van der Maas", "text": "Tine van der Maas\n\nTine van der Maas (born 15 March 1954) is an Argentine-born South African nutritionist and HIV/AIDS denialist. Her family is originally of Dutch origin before immigrating to South Africa. She started treating people with AIDS in 1989.\n\nVan der Maas was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina. She is best known for her natural treatment of AIDS and related diseases with a lemon mixture, garlic and beetroot. She was the caretaker of Nozipho Bhengu, who died in 2006 from an AIDS-related illness after being persuaded to stop taking her medication. Bhengu posthumously became a center of awareness on HIV/AIDS.\n\nFormer South African president Thabo Mbeki questioned the link between HIV and AIDS. In his speech to the 13th International AIDS Conference in Durban (2000), he stated, \"The world's biggest killer and the greatest cause of ill health and suffering across the globe, including South Africa, is extreme poverty.\" This occurred at the same time Tine van der Maas came to public attention working with then Minister of Health, Dr. Manto Tshabalala-Msimang.\n"}
{"id": "35013126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35013126", "title": "Trilogia das novas familias", "text": "Trilogia das novas familias\n\nTrilogia das novas familias is a 2008 documentary film.\n\nThe film consists of three short documentary films that show the faces and give voices to children orphaned by AIDS. The intentions of the documentary are to focus attention on the dismemberment of families in Mozambique due to AIDS, because it is a harsh reality and too often ignored.\n"}
{"id": "6027614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027614", "title": "Urogenital neoplasm", "text": "Urogenital neoplasm\n\nA urogenital neoplasm is a tumor of the urogenital system.\n\nTypes include:\n"}
