{"id": "42721373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42721373", "title": "ANSI/ASIS PSC.4-2013", "text": "ANSI/ASIS PSC.4-2013\n\nANSI/ASIS PSC.4-2013 is guidance for Quality Assurance and Security Management for Private Security Companies Operating at Sea.\n\nThe guidance document explains how to implement ANSI/ASIS PSC.1-2012 within the maritime environment. ANSI/ASIS PSC.4-2013 is one of four documents published in the ANSI/ASIS series that apply to Private Security Companies.\n\nFor another draft maritime security standard, see .\n"}
{"id": "17624244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17624244", "title": "Assignment of income doctrine", "text": "Assignment of income doctrine\n\nThe assignment of income doctrine is a judicial doctrine developed in United States case law by courts trying to limit tax evasion. The assignment of income doctrine seeks to \"preserve the progressive rate structure of the Code by prohibiting the splitting of income among taxable entities.\"\n\nThe United States Supreme Court created the assignment of income doctrine in the \"Lucas v. Earl\" decision. The Supreme Court held that income from services is taxed to the party who performed the services. To elaborate on this principle, the decision used the metaphor that \"the fruits cannot be attributed to a different tree from that on which they grew.\" The case is used to support the proposition that the substance of the transaction, rather than the form, is controlling for tax purposes. \n\nThe doctrine was later expanded in the \"Helvering v. Horst\" decision to include income from property. The decision relied on the principle that the power to dispose of income and the enjoyment of property's economic benefits is the equivalent of ownership.\n\nThis doctrine has important implications for taxpayers trying to shift their tax burden to another person. When assigning income to another person (particularly a family member) in the form of a gift, the courts will usually see it as a way to avoid tax and thus consider it “fruit.” Only in an arms-length sale do the courts see the “tree” itself being moved.\n\n"}
{"id": "31583876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31583876", "title": "Avguštin Stegenšek", "text": "Avguštin Stegenšek\n\nAvguštin Stegenšek Ph. D. (7 July 1875 in Tevče, Laško – 16 March 1920) was a Slovene theologian, philosopher and art historian.\n\nAfter his graduation of theology, he left for Rome to study archaeology and art history. Later, he was awarded a doctor's degree of philosophy sciences at the university of Graz in 1906. He took part in the Historic Society for Slovene Styria, founded 1906, and was appointed honorary conservator in Styria by Committee for the protection of monuments in Vienna. Stegenšek was the pioneer of the monumental topography on the territory of Slovenia. He framed the monumental work »Cerkveni spomeniki lavantinske škofije« (Church Monuments of Lavantine Diocese), which included two issues »Dekanija Gornji Grad« (Deanery Gornji Grad) and Konjiška Dekanija (Deanery Slovenske Konjice) got up by his own photographs and drawings as well edited and published on his own.\n\nStegenšek died in Maribor in 1920.\n\n\nIn 2010, on 101st anniversary of first publishment and on 90th anniversary of Stegešek's death the \"Konjiška dekanija\" was reedited as facsimile by Slovenske Konjice Municipality, Archparish and Deanery, with moral support of Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Maribor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1298497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298497", "title": "Book of the Civilized Man", "text": "Book of the Civilized Man\n\nBook of the Civilized Man by Daniel of Beccles (, also known as Liber Urbani, Urbanus Magnus, or Civilized Man) is believed to be the first English courtesy book (or book of manners), dating probably from the beginning of the 13th century. The book is significant because in the later Middle Ages dozens of such courtesy books were produced. Because this appears to be the first in English history, it represented a new awakening to etiquette and decorum in English court society, which occurred in the 13th century. As a general rule, a book of etiquette is a mark of a dynamic rather than a stable society, one in which there is an influx of \"new\" men, who have not been indoctrinated with the correct decorum from an early age and who are avid to catch up in a hurry.\n\n\"Civilized Man\" is a 3000-line Latin verse poem that gives proper advice on a wide range of social situations that the typical medieval person might have encountered in day-to-day life.\n\nExamples include:\n\nHistorians believe that Daniel of Beccles may have been a member of Henry II's court. John Bale (16th century) wrote that he had seen a document showing Daniel in Henry's court for over 30 years. This, the fact that a Henry is mentioned in the text, and some of the manuscripts can be dated to the early 13th century, make it very probable the poem dates from that period. There a reference to a Daniel of Beccles in the \"Seventh Regnal Year of King John\" (circa 1206) secretly being given the patronage (advowson) of the church of Endgate in Beccles by the Abbot of Bury St Edmund's.\n\nThere are three major recurrent themes in the poem: social hierarchy, self-control and sexual morality.\n\nThe first theme is the emphasis on social hierarchy and how to behave around those of higher or lower status (lords and servants). The poem takes the general tone of addressing the reader as someone who is a \"householder\". This can be seen in the opening lines of the poem \"Reader, if you wish to be adorned with good manners, if you wish to be respected and lead a civilized life as a noble householder...\". In other words, it addresses a very minor upper percentage of the general population who own households and have servants, the class that from the 16th century might be identified as \"country gentry\".\n\nThe second recurrent theme is self-control, in general holding oneself inward when it comes to speaking, eating and bodily emissions. When it comes to speaking, \"Be careful to whom, what, why and when you speak\". He suggests it is better to keep your thoughts to yourself. When it comes to eating, he suggests small bites, not overeating, not playing with food, no using fingers to clean bowls. Also, guests and servants should not urinate in the dining hall, but the host may.\n\nThe third recurrent theme is sexual morality. The \"Civilized Man\" was clearly written for men. It offers advice on prostitutes: \"If you are overcome with erotic desire when you are young and your penis drives you to go to a prostitute, do not go to a common whore; empty your testicles quickly and depart quickly.\" He offers advice on how to pick a wife, which includes looking at her property value and personal traits. Following a tradition inherited from antiquity, Daniel describes women as lustful and untrustworthy. The poem describes a woman lying in bed with her husband, with her thoughts on to her secret lover: \"The lascivious woman throws herself around the neck of her lover, her fingers give him those secret touches that she denies to her husband in bed; one wicked act with her lover pleases the lascivious adulteress more than a hundred with her husband; women's minds always burn for the forbidden.\" He says she is always ready to fornicate \"with a cook or a half-wit, a peasant or a ploughman, or a chaplain... what she longs for is a thick, leaping, robust piece of equipment, long, smooth and stiff... such are the things that charm and delight women\". Daniel had a nearly pathological view of the promiscuity of women, but despite this he says \"Whatever your wife does, do not damage your marriage\" and he goes on to say \"if you are jealous, do not whisper a word about it... when you are jealous, learn to look up at the ceiling.\" The message is clearly in the same theme of holding inward and avoiding any embarrassments at all cost.\n\nDaniel's advice comes to a climax in what is perhaps the most difficult situation of all: the wife of one's lord makes a sexual proposition. It is a combination of the three problems: hierarchical relationships, control of bodily emissions, and sexual morality. Daniel's solution? Pretend to be ill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21766725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21766725", "title": "Catherine Elgin", "text": "Catherine Elgin\n\nCatherine Z. Elgin (born 1948) is a philosopher working in epistemology and the philosophies of art and science. She holds a Ph.D. from Brandeis University where she studied with Nelson Goodman and is currently a professor of philosophy of education at the Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. She is well known for her several joint works with philosopher Nelson Goodman.\n\nElgin's work has considered such questions as \"what makes something cognitively valuable?\" As an epistemologist, she considers the pursuit of understanding to be of higher value than the pursuit of knowledge.\n\nIn \"Considered Judgement\", Elgin argues for \"a reconception that takes reflective equilibrium as the standard of rational acceptability.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11361282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11361282", "title": "Charles de Bovelles", "text": "Charles de Bovelles\n\nCharles de Bovelles (; born c. 1475 at Saint-Quentin, died at Ham, Somme after 1566) was a French mathematician and philosopher, and canon of Noyon. His \"Géométrie en françoys\" (1511) was the first scientific work to be printed in French.\nBovelles authored a number of philological, theological and mystical treatises, and has been reckoned to be \"perhaps the most remarkable French thinker of the 16th century.\"\n\nJoseph Victor has written the best intellectual biography of Charles de Bovelles, but got the date of his death wrong.\n\nHe studied arithmetic under Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples. His contemporaries knew him as widely travelled in Europe. \nIt is known that he made a rebus for the year (1509) of the building of the \"hôtel de ville\" in Saint-Quentin. He gave a stained glass window in the town in 1521. In 1547, in the preface of \"La Geometrie practique\", Bovelles acknowledges help from Oronce Fine with the engravings.\n\nMaupin (end of nineteenth century) assigned dates 1470-1553, which confused many people subsequently. S. Musial in a careful study published in the Actes of the 500th centennial of his birth in Noyon in 1979 (published 1982) fixes the date of his death at 1567 (see also Margolin's Letters and Poems of Charles de Bovelles, 2002).\n\n\nHis first major work, \"Quæ in hoc volumine\" (1510/11), a collection of 12 works by Bovelles that constitute a major but still little recognized contribution to the philosophical thought of the Renaissance. Of these 12 works, the Liber de Sapiente is certainly the most significant, serving to summarize and synthesize the ideas presented in the other short treatises. In fact, the Liber de Sapiente is the only part of In Hoc Volumine that has had a modern edition having been translated once into Italian and twice into French. And yet this work still has no English translation. The Liber de sapiente is important to intellectual history because it exemplifies the transition between Medieval and Renaissance thinking. Ernst Cassirer considered the Liber de Sapiente, \"perhaps the most curious and in some respects the most characteristic creation of Renaissance philosophy … [because] in no other work can we find such an intimate union of old and new ideas.\" (1927, p. 88). Cassirer even included a critical Latin edition of the de Sapiente prepared by his student as an appendix to The Individual and the Cosmos in Renaissance Philosophy.\n\nIn geometry, Bovelles was a Pythagorean: objects and living beings take up regular shapes. Some of his chapters, on bells, physiognomy, machines, are representative of the period.\n\nMichel Chasles, in his \"Aperçu historique... des méthodes en géométrie\", points out Bovelles for his work on star polyhedra, a successor in this of Thomas Bradwardine.\n\n\nHis 1533 work \"Agonologiae Jesu Christi, libri quatuor\" has been cited in art history. For example, John North, \"The Ambassadors' Secret\" (2002), refers to it (p. 179, and elsewhere), in interpreting Holbein's picture \" The Ambassadors\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47840638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47840638", "title": "Code of Kalantiaw", "text": "Code of Kalantiaw\n\nThe Code of Rajah Kalantiaw was a supposed legal code in the epic history Maragtas that is said to have been written in 1433 by Datu Kalantiaw, a chief on the island of Negros in the Philippines. The code is now believed by many historians to have been a hoax and that it had actually been written in 1913 by Jose E. Marco as a part of his historical fiction \"Las antiguas leyendas de la Isla de Negros\" (), which he attributed to a priest named Jose Maria Pavon.\n\nPhilippine historian Teodoro Agoncillo describes the code as \"a disputed document.\" Despite doubts on its authenticity, some history texts continue to present it as historical fact.\n\nIn 1917, the historian Josué Soncuya wrote about the Code of Kalantiaw in his book \"Historia Prehispana de Filipinas\" (\"Prehispanic History of the Philippines\") where he moved the location of the Code's origin from Negros to the Panay province of Aklan because he suspected that it may be related to the Ati-atihan festival. Other authors throughout the 20th century gave credence to the story and the code.\n\nIn 1965, then University of Santo Tomas doctoral candidate William Henry Scott began an examination of prehispanic sources for the study of Philippine history. Scott eventually demonstrated that the code was a forgery committed by Marco. When Scott presented these conclusions in his doctoral dissertation, defended on 16 June 1968 before a panel of eminent Filipino historians which included Teodoro Agoncillo, Horacio de la Costa, Marcelino Foronda, Mercedes Grau Santamaria, Nicolas Zafra and Gregorio Zaide, not a single question was raised about the chapter which he had called \"The Contributions of Jose E. Marco to Philippine historiography\".\n\nScott later published his findings debunking the code in his book \"Prehispanic Source Materials for the Study of Philippine History\". Filipino historians later removed the code from future literature regarding Philippine history. When Antonio W. Molina published a Spanish version of his \"The Philippines Through the Centuries\" as \"Centuries as historia de Filipinas\" (Madrid, 1984), he replaced the Code with one sentence: \"La tésis doctoral del historador Scott desbarate la existencia misma de dicho Código\" (The doctoral dissertation of the historian Scott demolishes the very existence of the Code).\n\nIn his book, \"Struggle for Freedom\" (2008), Cecilio Duka provides a full reproduction of the code for the reader's \"critical examination... to decide on its veracity and accuracy\".\n\nArticle I\n\nYe shall not kill, neither shall ye steal nor shall ye hurt the aged, lest ye incur the danger of death. All those who this order shall infringe shall be tied to a stone and drowned in a river or in boiling water.\n\nArticle II\n\nYe shall punctually meet your debt with your headman. He who fulfills not, for the first time shall be lashed a hundredfold, and If the obligation is great, his hand shall be dipped threefold in boiling water. On conviction, he shall be flogged to death.\n\nArticle III\n\nObey ye: no one shall have wives that are too young, nor shall they be more than what he can take care of, nor spend much luxury. He who fulfils not, obeys not, shall be condemned to swim three hours and, for the second time, shall be scourged with spines to death.\n\nArticle IV\n\nObserve and obey ye: Let not the peace of the graves be disturbed; due respect must be accorded them on passing by caves and trees where they are. He who observes not shall die by bites of ants or shall be flogged with spines till death.\n\nArticle V\n\nObey ye: Exchange in food must be carried out faithfully. He who complies not shall be lashed for an hour. He who repeats the act shall, for a day be exposed to the ants.\n\nArticle VI\n\nYe shall revere respectable places, trees of known value, and other sites. He shall pay a month's work, in gold or money, whoever fails to do this; and if twice committed, he shall be declared a slave.\n\nArticle VII\n\nThey shall die who kill trees of venerable aspect; who at night shoot with arrows the aged men and the women; he who enters the house of the headman without permission; he who kills a fish or shark or striped crocodile.\n\nArticle VIII\n\nThey shall be slaves for a given time who steal away the women of the headmen; he who possesses dogs that bite the headmen; he who burns another man's sown field.\n\nArticle IX\n\nThey shall be slaves for a given time, who sing in their night errands, kill manual birds, tear documents belonging to the headmen; who are evil-minded liars; who play with the dead.\n\nArticle X\n\nIt shall be the obligation of every mother to show her daughter secretly the things that are lacivious, and prepare them for womanhood; men shall not be cruel to their wives, nor should they punish them when they catch them in the act of adultery. He who disobeys shall be torn to pieces and thrown to the caymans.\n\nArticle XI\n\nThey shall be burned, who by force or cunning have mocked at and eluded punishment, or who have killed two young boys, or shall try to steal the women of the old men (agurangs).\n\nArticle XII\n\nThey shall be drowned, all slaves who assault their superiors or their lords and masters; all those who abuse their luxury; those who kill their anitos by breaking them or throwing them away.\n\nArticle XIII\n\nThey shall be exposed to the ants for half a day, who kill a black cat during the new moon or steal things belonging to the headmen.\n\nArticle XIV\n\nThey shall be slaves for life, who having beautiful daughters shall deny them to the sons of the headman, or shall hide them in bad faith.\n\nArticle XV\n\nConcerning their beliefs and superstitions: they shall be scourged, who eat bad meat of respected insects or herbs that are supposed to be good; who hurt or kill the young manual bird and the white monkey.\n\nArticle XVI\n\nTheir fingers shall be cut off, who break wooden or clay idols in their \"olangangs\" and places of oblation; he who breaks \"Tagalan's\" daggers for hog killing, or breaks drinking vases.\n\nArticle XVII\n\nThey shall be killed, who profane places where sacred objects of their \"diwatas\" or headmen are buried. He who gives way to the call of nature at such places shall be burned.\n\nArticle XVIII\n\nThose who do not cause these rules to be observed, if they are headmen, shall be stoned and crushed to death, and if they are old men, shall be placed in rivers to be eaten by sharks and crocodiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6675", "title": "Conservatism", "text": "Conservatism\n\nConservatism is a political and social philosophy promoting traditional social institutions in the context of culture and civilization. The central tenets of conservatism include tradition, human imperfection, organic society, hierarchy, authority, and property rights. Conservatives seek to preserve a range of institutions such as monarchy, religion, parliamentary government, and property rights, with the aim of emphasizing social stability and continuity. The more extreme elements—reactionaries—oppose modernism and seek a return to \"the way things were\".\n\nThe first established use of the term in a political context originated in 1818 with François-René de Chateaubriand during the period of Bourbon Restoration that sought to roll back the policies of the French Revolution. Historically associated with right-wing politics, the term has since been used to describe a wide range of views. There is no single set of policies regarded as conservative because the meaning of conservatism depends on what is considered traditional in a given place and time. Thus conservatives from different parts of the world—each upholding their respective traditions—may disagree on a wide range of issues. Edmund Burke, an 18th-century politician who opposed the French Revolution but supported the American Revolution, is credited as one of the main theorists of conservatism in Great Britain in the 1790s.\n\nAccording to Quintin Hogg, the chairman of the British Conservative Party in 1959: \"Conservatism is not so much a philosophy as an attitude, a constant force, performing a timeless function in the development of a free society, and corresponding to a deep and permanent requirement of human nature itself\". In contrast to the tradition-based definition of conservatism, some political theorists such as Corey Robin define conservatism primarily in terms of a general defense of social and economic inequality. From this perspective, conservatism is less an attempt to uphold traditional institutions and more, \"a meditation on — and theoretical rendition of — the felt experience of having power, seeing it threatened, and trying to win it back\".\n\nLiberal conservatism incorporates the classical liberal view of minimal government intervention in the economy. Individuals should be free to participate in the market and generate wealth without government interference. However, individuals cannot be thoroughly depended on to act responsibly in other spheres of life, therefore liberal conservatives believe that a strong state is necessary to ensure law and order and social institutions are needed to nurture a sense of duty and responsibility to the nation. Liberal conservatism is a variant of conservatism that is strongly influenced by liberal stances.\n\nAs these latter two terms have had different meanings over time and across countries, liberal conservatism also has a wide variety of meanings. Historically, the term often referred to the combination of economic liberalism, which champions \"laissez-faire\" markets, with the classical conservatism concern for established tradition, respect for authority and religious values. It contrasted itself with classical liberalism, which supported freedom for the individual in both the economic and social spheres.\n\nOver time, the general conservative ideology in many countries adopted economic liberal arguments and the term liberal conservatism was replaced with conservatism. This is also the case in countries where liberal economic ideas have been the tradition such as the United States and are thus considered conservative. In other countries where liberal conservative movements have entered the political mainstream, such as Italy and Spain, the terms liberal and conservative may be synonymous. The liberal conservative tradition in the United States combines the economic individualism of the classical liberals with a Burkean form of conservatism (which has also become part of the American conservative tradition, such as in the writings of Russell Kirk).\n\nA secondary meaning for the term liberal conservatism that has developed in Europe is a combination of more modern conservative (less traditionalist) views with those of social liberalism. This has developed as an opposition to the more collectivist views of socialism. Often this involves stressing what are now conservative views of free market economics and belief in individual responsibility, with social liberal views on defence of civil rights, environmentalism and support for a limited welfare state. In continental Europe, this is sometimes also translated into English as social conservatism.\n\nConservative liberalism is a variant of liberalism that combines liberal values and policies with conservative stances, or more simply the right-wing of the liberal movement. The roots of conservative liberalism are found at the beginning of the history of liberalism. Until the two World Wars, in most European countries the political class was formed by conservative liberals, from Germany to Italy. Events after World War I brought the more radical version of classical liberalism to a more conservative (i.e. more moderate) type of liberalism.\n\nLibertarian conservatism describes certain political ideologies within the United States and Canada which combine libertarian economic issues with aspects of conservatism. Its four main branches are constitutionalism, paleolibertarianism, small government conservatism and Christian libertarianism. They generally differ from paleoconservatives, in that they are in favor of more personal and economic freedom.\n\nAgorists such as Samuel Edward Konkin III labeled libertarian conservatism right-libertarianism.\n\nIn contrast to paleoconservatives, libertarian conservatives support strict \"laissez-faire\" policies such as free trade, opposition to any national bank and opposition to business regulations. They are vehemently opposed to environmental regulations, corporate welfare, subsidies and other areas of economic intervention.\n\nMany conservatives, especially in the United States, believe that the government should not play a major role in regulating business and managing the economy. They typically oppose efforts to charge high tax rates and to redistribute income to assist the poor. Such efforts, they argue, do not properly reward people who have earned their money through hard work.\n\nFiscal conservatism is the economic philosophy of prudence in government spending and debt. In his \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\", Edmund Burke argued that a government does not have the right to run up large debts and then throw the burden on the taxpayer: [I]t is to the property of the citizen, and not to the demands of the creditor of the state, that the first and original faith of civil society is pledged. The claim of the citizen is prior in time, paramount in title, superior in equity. The fortunes of individuals, whether possessed by acquisition or by descent or in virtue of a participation in the goods of some community, were no part of the creditor's security, expressed or implied...[T]he public, whether represented by a monarch or by a senate, can pledge nothing but the public estate; and it can have no public estate except in what it derives from a just and proportioned imposition upon the citizens at large.\n\nNational conservatism is a political term used primarily in Europe to describe a variant of conservatism which concentrates more on national interests than standard conservatism as well as upholding cultural and ethnic identity, while not being outspokenly nationalist or supporting a far-right approach. In Europe, national conservatives are usually eurosceptics.\n\nNational conservatism is heavily oriented towards the traditional family and social stability as well as in favour of limiting immigration. As such, national conservatives can be distinguished from economic conservatives, for whom free market economic policies, deregulation and fiscal conservatism are the main priorities. Some commentators have identified a growing gap between national and economic conservatism: \"[M]ost parties of the Right [today] are run by economic conservatives who, in varying degrees, have marginalized social, cultural, and national conservatives\". National conservatism is also related to traditionalist conservatism.\n\nTraditionalist conservatism is a political philosophy emphasizing the need for the principles of natural law and transcendent moral order, tradition, hierarchy and organic unity, agrarianism, classicism and high culture as well as the intersecting spheres of loyalty. Some traditionalists have embraced the labels \"reactionary\" and \"counterrevolutionary\", defying the stigma that has attached to these terms since the Enlightenment. Having a hierarchical view of society, many traditionalist conservatives, including a few Americans, defend the monarchical political structure as the most natural and beneficial social arrangement.\n\nCultural conservatives support the preservation of the heritage of one nation, or of a shared culture that is not defined by national boundaries. The shared culture may be as divergent as Western culture or Chinese culture. In the United States, the term cultural conservative may imply a conservative position in the culture war. Cultural conservatives hold fast to traditional ways of thinking even in the face of monumental change. They believe strongly in traditional values and traditional politics and often have an urgent sense of nationalism.\n\nSocial conservatism is distinct from cultural conservatism, although there are some overlaps. Social conservatives may believe that society is built upon a fragile network of relationships which need to be upheld through duty, traditional values and established institutions; and that the government has a role in encouraging or enforcing traditional values or behaviours. A social conservative wants to preserve traditional morality and social mores, often by opposing what they consider radical policies or social engineering. Social change is generally regarded as suspect.\n\nA second meaning of the term social conservatism developed in the Nordic countries and continental Europe, where it refers to liberal conservatives supporting modern European welfare states.\n\nSocial conservatives (in the first meaning of the word) in many countries generally favour the pro-life position in the abortion controversy and oppose human embryonic stem cell research (particularly if publicly funded); oppose both eugenics and human enhancement (transhumanism) while supporting bioconservatism; support a traditional definition of marriage as being one man and one woman; view the nuclear family model as society's foundational unit; oppose expansion of civil marriage and child adoption to couples in same-sex relationships; promote public morality and traditional family values; oppose atheism, especially militant atheism, secularism and the separation of church and state; support the prohibition of drugs, prostitution and euthanasia; and support the censorship of pornography and what they consider to be obscenity or indecency. Most conservatives in the United States support the death penalty.\n\nReligious conservatism principally apply the teachings of particular religions to politics, sometimes by merely proclaiming the value of those teachings, at other times by having those teachings influence laws.\n\nIn most democracies, political conservatism seeks to uphold traditional family structures and social values. Religious conservatives typically oppose abortion, homosexual behavior, drug use and sexual activity outside of marriage. In some cases, conservative values are grounded in religious beliefs and conservatives seek to increase the role of religion in public life.\n\nPaternalistic conservatism is a strand in conservatism which reflects the belief that societies exist and develop organically and that members within them have obligations towards each other. There is particular emphasis on the paternalistic obligation of those who are privileged and wealthy to the poorer parts of society. Since it is consistent with principles such as organicism, hierarchy and duty, it can be seen an outgrowth of traditional conservatism. Paternal conservatives support neither the individual nor the state in principle, but are instead prepared to support either or recommend a balance between the two depending on what is most practical.\n\nIt stresses the importance of a social safety net to deal with poverty, support of limited redistribution of wealth along with government regulation to regulate markets in the interests of both consumers and producers. Paternalistic conservatism first arose as a distinct ideology in the United Kingdom under Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli's \"One Nation\" Toryism. There have been a variety of one nation conservative governments. In the United Kingdom, the Prime Ministers Disraeli, Stanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill and Harold Macmillan were one nation conservatives.\n\nIn Germany, during the 19th-century German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck adopted policies of state-organized compulsory insurance for workers against sickness, accident, incapacity and old age. Chancellor Leo von Caprivi promoted a conservative agenda called the \"New Course\".\n\nIn the United States, the administration of President William Howard Taft was a progressive conservative and he described himself as \"a believer in progressive conservatism\" and President Dwight D. Eisenhower declared himself an advocate of \"progressive conservatism\". \n\nIn Canada, a variety of conservative governments have been part of the Red tory tradition, with Canada's former major conservative party being named the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1942 to 2003. In Canada, the Prime Ministers Arthur Meighen, R. B. Bennett, John Diefenbaker, Joe Clark, Brian Mulroney, and Kim Campbell led Red tory federal governments.\n\nAuthoritarian conservatism refers to autocratic regimes that center their ideology around conservative nationalism rather than ethnic nationalism, though certain racial components such as antisemitism may exist. Authoritarian conservative movements show strong devotion towards religion, tradition and culture while also expressing fervent nationalism akin to other far-right nationalist movements. Examples of authoritarian conservative leaders include António de Oliveira Salazar and Engelbert Dollfuss. Authoritarian conservative movements were prominent in the same era as fascism, with which it sometimes clashed. Although both ideologies shared core values such as nationalism and had common enemies such as communism and materialism, there was nonetheless a contrast between the traditionalist nature of authoritarian conservatism and the revolutionary, palingenetic and populist nature of fascism—thus it was common for authoritarian conservative regimes to suppress rising fascist and National Socialist movements. The hostility between the two ideologies is highlighted by the struggle for power for the National Socialists in Austria, which was marked by the assassination of Engelbert Dollfuss.\n\nSociologist Seymour Martin Lipset has examined the class basis of right-wing extremist politics in the 1920–1960 era. He reports:\n\nIn Great Britain, conservative ideas (though not yet called that) emerged in the Tory movement during the Restoration period (1660–1688). Toryism supported a hierarchical society with a monarch who ruled by divine right. Tories opposed the idea that sovereignty derived from the people and rejected the authority of parliament and freedom of religion. Robert Filmer's \"Patriarcha: or the Natural Power of Kings\" (published posthumously in 1680, but written before the English Civil War of 1642–1651) became accepted as the statement of their doctrine. However, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 destroyed this principle to some degree by establishing a constitutional government in England, leading to the hegemony of the Tory-opposed Whig ideology. Faced with defeat, the Tories reformed their movement, now holding that sovereignty was vested in the three estates of Crown, Lords and Commons rather than solely in the Crown. Toryism became marginalized during the long period of Whig ascendancy in the 18th century.\nConservatives typically see Richard Hooker (1554–1600) as the founding father of conservatism, along with the Marquess of Halifax (1633–1695), David Hume (1711–1776) and Edmund Burke (1729–1797). Halifax promoted pragmatism in government whilst Hume argued against political rationalism and utopianism. Burke served as the private secretary to the Marquis of Rockingham and as official pamphleteer to the Rockingham branch of the Whig party. Together with the Tories, they were the conservatives in the late 18th century United Kingdom. Burke's views were a mixture of liberal and conservative. He supported the American Revolution of 1765–1783, but abhorred the violence of the French Revolution (1789–1799). He accepted the liberal ideals of private property and the economics of Adam Smith (1723–1790), but thought that economics should remain subordinate to the conservative social ethic, that capitalism should be subordinate to the medieval social tradition and that the business class should be subordinate to aristocracy. He insisted on standards of honor derived from the medieval aristocratic tradition and saw the aristocracy as the nation's natural leaders. That meant limits on the powers of the Crown, since he found the institutions of Parliament to be better informed than commissions appointed by the executive. He favored an established church, but allowed for a degree of religious toleration. Burke justified the social order on the basis of tradition: tradition represented the wisdom of the species and he valued community and social harmony over social reforms. Burke was a leading theorist in his day, finding extreme idealism (either Tory or Whig) an endangerment to broader liberties and (like Hume) rejecting abstract reason as an unsound guide for political theory. Despite their influence on future conservative thought, none of these early contributors were explicitly involved in Tory politics. Hooker lived in the 16th century, long before the advent of toryism, whilst Hume was an apolitical philosopher and Halifax similarly politically independent. Burke described himself as a Whig.\n\nShortly after Burke's death in 1797, conservatism revived as a mainstream political force as the Whigs suffered a series of internal divisions. This new generation of conservatives derived their politics not from Burke but from his predecessor, the Viscount Bolingbroke (1678–1751), who was a Jacobite and traditional Tory, lacking Burke's sympathies for Whiggish policies such as Catholic emancipation and American independence (famously attacked by Samuel Johnson in \"Taxation No Tyranny\"). In the first half of the 19th century, many newspapers, magazines and journals promoted loyalist or right-wing attitudes in religion, politics and international affairs. Burke was seldom mentioned, but William Pitt the Younger (1759–1806) became a conspicuous hero. The most prominent journals included \"The Quarterly Review\", founded in 1809 as a counterweight to the Whigs' \"Edinburgh Review\" and the even more conservative \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\". Sack finds that the \"Quarterly Review\" promoted a balanced Canningite toryism as it was neutral on Catholic emancipation and only mildly critical of Nonconformist Dissent; it opposed slavery and supported the current poor laws; and it was \"aggressively imperialist\". The high-church clergy of the Church of England read the \"Orthodox Churchman's Magazine\" which was equally hostile to Jewish, Catholic, Jacobin, Methodist and Unitarian spokesmen. Anchoring the ultra Tories, \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\" stood firmly against Catholic emancipation and favoured slavery, cheap money, mercantilism, the Navigation Acts and the Holy Alliance.\n\nConservatism evolved after 1820, embracing free trade in 1846 and a commitment to democracy, especially under Disraeli. The effect was to significantly strengthen conservatism as a grassroots political force. Conservatism no longer was the philosophical defense of the landed aristocracy, but had been refreshed into redefining its commitment to the ideals of order, both secular and religious, expanding imperialism, strengthened monarchy and a more generous vision of the welfare state as opposed to the punitive vision of the Whigs and liberals. As early as 1835, Disraeli attacked the Whigs and utilitarians as slavishly devoted to an industrial oligarchy, while he described his fellow Tories as the only \"really democratic party of England\" and devoted to the interests of the whole people. Nevertheless, inside the party there was a tension between the growing numbers of wealthy businessmen on the one side and the aristocracy and rural gentry on the other. The aristocracy gained strength as businessmen discovered they could use their wealth to buy a peerage and a country estate.\n\nAlthough conservatives opposed attempts to allow greater representation of the middle class in parliament, they conceded that electoral reform could not be reversed and promised to support further reforms so long as they did not erode the institutions of church and state. These new principles were presented in the Tamworth Manifesto of 1834, which historians regard as the basic statement of the beliefs of the new Conservative Party.\nSome conservatives lamented the passing of a pastoral world where the ethos of \"noblesse oblige\" had promoted respect from the lower classes. They saw the Anglican Church and the aristocracy as balances against commercial wealth. They worked toward legislation for improved working conditions and urban housing. This viewpoint would later be called Tory democracy. However, since Burke there has always been tension between traditional aristocratic conservatism and the wealthy business class.\n\nIn 1834, Tory Prime Minister Robert Peel issued the Tamworth Manifesto in which he pledged to endorse moderate political reform. This marked the beginning of the transformation of British conservatism from High Tory reactionism towards a more modern form based on \"conservation\". The party became known as the Conservative Party as a result, a name it has retained to this day. However, Peel would also be the root of a split in the party between the traditional Tories (led by the Earl of Derby and Benjamin Disraeli) and the \"Peelites\" (led first by Peel himself, then by the Earl of Aberdeen). The split occurred in 1846 over the issue of free trade, which Peel supported, versus protectionism, supported by Derby. The majority of the party sided with Derby whilst about a third split away, eventually merging with the Whigs and the radicals to form the Liberal Party. Despite the split, the mainstream Conservative Party accepted the doctrine of free trade in 1852.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, the Liberal Party faced political schisms, especially over Irish Home Rule. Leader William Gladstone (himself a former Peelite) sought to give Ireland a degree of autonomy, a move that elements in both the left and right-wings of his party opposed. These split off to become the Liberal Unionists (led by Joseph Chamberlain), forming a coalition with the Conservatives before merging with them in 1912. The Liberal Unionist influence dragged the Conservative Party towards the left as Conservative governments passing a number of progressive reforms at the turn of the 20th century. By the late 19th century, the traditional business supporters of the Liberal Party had joined the Conservatives, making them the party of business and commerce.\n\nAfter a period of Liberal dominance before the First World War, the Conservatives gradually became more influential in government, regaining full control of the cabinet in 1922. In the interwar period, conservatism was the major ideology in Britain as the Liberal Party vied with the Labour Party for control of the left. After the Second World War, the first Labour government (1945–1951) under Clement Attlee embarked on a program of nationalization of industry and the promotion of social welfare. The Conservatives generally accepted those policies until the 1980s.\nIn the 1980s, the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher, guided by neoliberal economics, reversed many of Labour's programmes. The Conservative Party also adopt soft eurosceptic politics, and oppose Federal Europe. Other conservative political parties, such as the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP, founded in 1993), Northern Ireland's Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) and the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP, founded in 1971), began to appear, although they have yet to make any significant impact at Westminster (, the DUP comprises the largest political party in the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly), and since 2017 the DUP has provided support for the Conservative minority government.\n\nAnother form of conservatism developed in France in parallel to conservatism in Britain. It was influenced by Counter-Enlightenment works by men such as Joseph de Maistre and Louis de Bonald. Latin conservatism was less pragmatic and more reactionary than the conservatism of Burke. Many continental or traditionalist conservatives do not support separation of church and state, with most supporting state recognition of and cooperation with the Catholic Church, such as had existed in France before the Revolution.\n\nEventually, conservatives added Gaullism, patriotism, and nationalism to the list of traditional values they support. Conservatives were the first to embrace nationalism, which was previously associated with liberalism and the Revolution in France.\n\nConservatism developed alongside nationalism in Germany, culminating in Germany's victory over France in the Franco-Prussian War, the creation of the unified German Empire in 1871 and the simultaneous rise of Otto von Bismarck on the European political stage. Bismarck's \"balance of power\" model maintained peace in Europe for decades at the end of the 19th century. His \"revolutionary conservatism\" was a conservative state-building strategy designed to make ordinary Germans—not just the Junker elite—more loyal to state and emperor, he created the modern welfare state in Germany in the 1880s. According to Kees van Kersbergen and Barbara Vis, his strategy was: \n\nBismarck also enacted universal male suffrage in the new German Empire in 1871. He became a great hero to German conservatives, who erected many monuments to his memory after he left office in 1890.\n\nWith the rise of Nazism in 1933, agrarian movements faded and was supplanted by a more command-based economy and forced social integration. Though Adolf Hitler succeeded in garnering the support of many German industrialists, prominent traditionalists openly and secretly opposed his policies of euthanasia, genocide and attacks on organized religion, including Claus von Stauffenberg, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Henning von Tresckow, Bishop Clemens August Graf von Galen and the monarchist Carl Friedrich Goerdeler.\n\nMore recently, the work of conservative Christian Democratic Union leader and Chancellor Helmut Kohl helped bring about German reunification, along with the closer integration of Europe in the form of the Maastricht Treaty.\n\nToday, German conservatism is often associated with politicians such as Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose tenure has been marked by attempts to save the common European currency (Euro) from demise. The German conservatives are divided under Merkel due to the refugee crisis in Germany and many conservatives in the CDU/CSU oppose the refugee and migrant policies developed under Merkel.\n\nAmerican conservatism is a broad system of political beliefs in the United States that is characterized by respect for American traditions, support for Judeo-Christian values, economic liberalism, anti-communism and a defense of Western culture. Liberty within the bounds of conformity to Conservatism is a core value, with a particular emphasis on strengthening the free market, limiting the size and scope of government and opposition to high taxes and government or labor union encroachment on the entrepreneur.\n\nThe major conservative party in the United States is the Republican Party, also known as the GOP (Grand Old Party). American conservatives consider individual liberty as long as it conforms to Conservative values, small government, deregulation of the government, economic liberalism and free trade, as the fundamental traits of democracy, which contrasts with modern American liberals, who generally place a greater value on social equality and social justice.\n\nConservative political parties vary widely from country to country in the goals they wish to achieve. Both conservative and liberal parties tend to favor private ownership of property, in opposition to communist, socialist and green parties, which favor communal ownership or laws requiring social responsibility on the part of property owners. Where conservatives and liberals differ is primarily on social issues. Conservatives tend to reject behavior that does not conform to some social norm. Modern conservative parties often define themselves by their opposition to liberal or labor parties. The United States usage of the term \"conservative\" is unique to that country.\n\nAccording to Alan Ware, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Iceland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom retained viable conservative parties into the 1980s. Ware said that Australia, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malta, New Zealand, Spain and the United States had no conservative parties, although they had either Christian democrats or liberals as major right-wing parties. Canada, Ireland and Portugal had right-wing political parties that defied categorization: the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada; Fianna Fáil, Fine Gael and Progressive Democrats in Ireland; and the Social Democratic Party of Portugal. Since then, the Swiss People's Party has moved to the extreme right and is no longer considered to be conservative.\n\nKlaus von Beyme, who developed the method of party categorization, found that no modern Eastern European parties could be considered conservative, although the communist and communist-successor parties had strong similarities.\n\nIn Italy, which was united by liberals and radicals (\"Risorgimento\"), liberals not conservatives emerged as the party of the right. In the Netherlands, conservatives merged into a new Christian democratic party in 1980. In Austria, Germany, Portugal and Spain, conservatism was transformed into and incorporated into fascism or the far-right. In 1940, all Japanese parties were merged into a single fascist party. Following the war, Japanese conservatives briefly returned to politics, but were largely purged from public office.\n\nLouis Hartz explained the absence of conservatism in Australia or the United States as a result of their settlement as radical or liberal fragments of Great Britain. Although he said English Canada had a negligible conservative influence, subsequent writers claimed that loyalists opposed to the American Revolution brought a Tory ideology into Canada. Hartz explained conservatism in Quebec and Latin America as a result of their settlement as feudal societies. The American conservative writer Russell Kirk provided the opinion that conservatism had been brought to the United States and interpreted the American Revolution as a \"conservative revolution\".\n\nConservative elites have long dominated Latin American nations. Mostly, this has been achieved through control of and support for civil institutions, the church and the armed forces, rather than through party politics. Typically, the church was exempt from taxes and its employees immune from civil prosecution. Where national conservative parties were weak or non-existent, conservatives were more likely to rely on military dictatorship as a preferred form of government. However, in some nations where the elites were able to mobilize popular support for conservative parties, longer periods of political stability were achieved. Chile, Colombia and Venezuela are examples of nations that developed strong conservative parties. Argentina, Brazil, El Salvador and Peru are examples of nations where this did not occur. The Conservative Party of Venezuela disappeared following the Federal Wars of 1858–1863. Chile's conservative party, the National Party, disbanded in 1973 following a military coup and did not re-emerge as a political force following the subsequent return to democracy.\n\nHaving its roots in the conservative Catholic Party, the Christian People's Party, retained a conservative edge through the twentieth century, supporting the king in the Royal Question, supporting nuclear family as the cornerstone of society, defending Christian education and opposing euthanasia. The Christian People's Party dominated politics in post-war Belgium. In 1999, the party's support collapsed and it became the country's fifth largest party. Currently, the N-VA (nieuw-vlaamse alliantie/New Flemish Alliance) is the largest party in Belgium.\n\nCanada's conservatives had their roots in the loyalists Tories who left America after the American Revolution. They developed in the socio-economic and political cleavages that existed during the first three decades of the 19th century and had the support of the business, professional and established Church (Anglican) elites in Ontario and to a lesser extent in Quebec. Holding a monopoly over administrative and judicial offices, they were called the \"Family Compact\" in Ontario and the \"Chateau Clique\" in Quebec. John A. Macdonald's successful leadership of the movement to confederate the provinces and his subsequent tenure as prime minister for most of the late 19th century rested on his ability to bring together the English-speaking Protestant oligarchy and the ultramontane Catholic hierarchy of Quebec and to keep them united in a conservative coalition.\n\nThe conservatives combined pro-market liberalism and Toryism. They generally supported an activist government and state intervention in the marketplace and their policies were marked by \"noblesse oblige\", a paternalistic responsibility of the elites for the less well-off. From 1942, the party was known as the Progressive Conservatives until 2003, when the national party merged with the Canadian Alliance to form the Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nThe conservative Union Nationale governed the province of Quebec in periods from 1936 to 1960 and in a close alliance with English Canadian business elites and the Catholic Church. This period, known as the Great Darkness, ended with the Quiet Revolution and the party went into terminal decline.\n\nThe modern Conservative Party of Canada has rebranded conservatism and under the leadership of Stephen Harper, the Conservative Party add more conservative policies.\n\nThe Colombian Conservative Party, founded in 1849, traces its origins to opponents of General Francisco de Paula Santander's 1833–1837 administration. While the term \"liberal\" had been used to describe all political forces in Colombia, the conservatives began describing themselves as \"conservative liberals\" and their opponents as \"red liberals\". From the 1860s until the present, the party has supported strong central government; supported the Catholic Church, especially its role as protector of the sanctity of the family; and opposed separation of church and state. Its policies include the legal equality of all men, the citizen's right to own property and opposition to dictatorship. It has usually been Colombia's second largest party, with the Colombian Liberal Party being the largest.\n\nFounded in 1915, the Conservative People's Party of Denmark. was the successor of \"Højre\" (literally \"Right\"). The conservative party led the government coalition from 1982 to 1993. The party was a junior partner in coalition with the Liberals from 2001 to 2011. The party is preceded by 11 years by the Young Conservatives (KU), today the youth movement of the party. The party suffered a major defeat in the parliamentary elections of September 2011 in which the party lost more than half of its seat and also lost governmental power. A liberal cultural policy dominated during the postwar period. However, by the 1990s disagreements regarding immigrants from entirely different cultures ignited a conservative backlash.\n\nThe conservative party in Finland is the National Coalition Party (in Finnish \"Kansallinen Kokoomus\", \"Kok\"). The party was founded in 1918 when several monarchist parties united. Although in the past the party was right-wing, today it is a moderate liberal conservative party. While the party advocates economic liberalism, it is committed to the social market economy.\n\nConservatism in France focused on the rejection of the secularism of the French Revolution, support for the role of the Catholic Church and the restoration of the monarchy. The monarchist cause was on the verge of victory in the 1870s, but then collapsed because the proposed king refused to fly the tri-colored flag. Religious tensions heightened in the 1890–1910 era, but moderated after the spirit of unity in fighting the First World War. An extreme form of conservatism characterized the Vichy regime of 1940–1944 with heightened antisemitism, opposition to individualism, emphasis on family life and national direction of the economy.\nFollowing the Second World War, conservatives in France supported Gaullist groups and have been nationalistic and emphasized tradition, order and the regeneration of France. Gaullists held divergent views on social issues. The number of conservative groups, their lack of stability and their tendency to be identified with local issues defy simple categorization. Conservatism has been the major political force in France since the Second World War. Unusually, post-war French conservatism was formed around the personality of a leader, Charles de Gaulle; and did not draw on traditional French conservatism, but on the Bonapartism tradition. Gaullism in France continues under The Republicans (formerly Union for a Popular Movement), which was previously led by Nicolas Sarkozy, a conservative figure in France. The word \"conservative\" itself is a term of abuse in France.\n\nThe main interwar conservative party was called the People's Party (PP), which supported constitutional monarchy and opposed the republican Liberal Party. Both it and the Liberal party were suppressed by the authoritarian, arch-conservative and royalist 4th of August Regime of Ioannis Metaxas in 1936–1941. The PP was able to re-group after the Second World War as part of a United Nationalist Front which achieved power campaigning on a simple anticommunist, ultranationalist platform during the Greek Civil War (1946–1949). However, the vote received by the PP declined during the so-called \"Centrist Interlude\" in 1950–1952. In 1952, Marshal Alexandros Papagos created the Greek Rally as an umbrella for the right-wing forces. The Greek Rally came to power in 1952 and remained the leading party in Greece until 1963—after Papagos' death in 1955 reformed as the National Radical Union under Konstantinos Karamanlis. Right-wing governments backed by the palace and the army overthrew the Centre Union government in 1965 and governed the country until the establishment of the far-right Regime of the Colonels (1967–1974). After the regime's collapse in August 1974, Karamanlis returned from exile to lead the government and founded the New Democracy party. The new conservative party had four objectives: to confront Turkish expansionism in Cyprus, to reestablish and solidify democratic rule, to give the country a strong government and to make a powerful moderate party a force in Greek politics.\n\nThe Independent Greeks, a newly formed political party in Greece, has also supported conservatism, particularly national and religious conservatism. The Founding Declaration of the Independent Greeks strongly emphasises in the preservation of the Greek state and its sovereignty, the Greek people and the Greek Orthodox Church.\n\nFounded in 1924 as the Conservative Party, Iceland's Independence Party adopted its current name in 1929 after the merger with the Liberal Party. From the beginning, they have been the largest vote-winning party, averaging around 40%. They combined liberalism and conservatism, supported nationalization of infrastructure and opposed class conflict. While mostly in opposition during the 1930s, they embraced economic liberalism, but accepted the welfare state after the war and participated in governments supportive of state intervention and protectionism. Unlike other Scandanivian conservative (and liberal) parties, it has always had a large working-class following. After the financial crisis in 2008, the party has sunk to a lower support level around 20–25%.\n\nAfter World War II, in Italy the conservative parties were mainly represented by the Christian Democracy (DC) party, which government form the foundation of the Republic until party's dissolution in 1994. Officially, DC refused the ideology of conservatism, but in many aspects, for example family values, it was a typical social conservative party.\n\nIn 1994, the media tycoon and entrepreneur Silvio Berlusconi founded the liberal conservative party Forza Italia (FI). Berlusconi won three elections in 1994, 2001 and 2008, governing the country for almost ten years as Prime Minister. Forza Italia formed a coalition with right-wing regional party Lega Nord while in government.\n\nBesides FI, now the conservative ideas are mainly expressed by the New Centre-Right party led by Angelino Alfano, Berlusconi form a new party, which is the reborn Forza Italia founding a new conservative movement. Alfano was the current Minister of Foreign Affairs. After the 2018 election, Lega Nord and the Five Star Movement formed the right-wing populist government.\n\nLuxembourg's major Christian democratic conservative party, the Christian Social People's Party (CSV or PCS), was formed as the Party of the Right in 1914 and adopted its present name in 1945. It was consistently the largest political party in Luxembourg and dominated politics throughout the 20th century.\n\nThe Conservative Party of Norway (Norwegian: Høyre, literally \"right\") was formed by the old upper class of state officials and wealthy merchants to fight the populist democracy of the Liberal Party, but lost power in 1884 when parliamentarian government was first practised. It formed its first government under parliamentarism in 1889 and continued to alternate in power with the Liberals until the 1930s, when Labour became the dominant political party. It has elements both of paternalism, stressing the responsibilities of the state and of economic liberalism. It first returned to power in the 1960s. During Kåre Willoch's premiership in the 1980s, much emphasis was laid on liberalizing the credit and housing market and abolishing the NRK TV and radio monopoly, while supporting law and order in criminal justice and traditional norms in education\n\nSweden's conservative party, the Moderate Party, was formed in 1904, two years after the founding of the liberal party. The party emphasizes tax reductions, deregulation of private enterprise and privatization of schools, hospitals and kindergartens.\n\nThere are a number of conservative parties in Switzerland's parliament, the Federal Assembly. These include the largest, the Swiss People's Party (SVP), the Christian Democratic People's Party (CVP) and the Conservative Democratic Party of Switzerland (BDP), which is a splinter of the SVP created in the aftermath to the election of Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf as Federal Council. The right-wing parties have a majority in the Federal Assembly.\n\nThe Swiss People's Party (SVP or UDC) was formed from the 1971 merger of the Party of Farmers, Traders and Citizens, formed in 1917 and the smaller Swiss Democratic Party, formed in 1942. The SVP emphasized agricultural policy and was strong among farmers in German-speaking Protestant areas. As Switzerland considered closer relations with the European Union in the 1990s, the SVP adopted a more militant protectionist and isolationist stance. This stance has allowed it to expand into German-speaking Catholic mountainous areas. The Anti-Defamation League, a non-Swiss lobby group based in the United States has accused them of manipulating issues such as immigration, Swiss neutrality and welfare benefits, awakening antisemitism and racism. The Council of Europe has called the SVP \"extreme right\", although some scholars dispute this classification. For instance, Hans-Georg Betz describes it as \"populist radical right\". The SVP is the largest party since 2003.\n\nAccording to historian James Sack, English conservatives celebrate Edmund Burke as their intellectual father. Burke was affiliated with the Whig Party which eventually became the Liberal Party, but the modern Conservative Party is generally thought to derive from the Tory party and the MPs of the modern conservative party are still frequently referred to as Tories.\n\nWhile conservatism has been seen as an appeal to traditional, hierarchical society, some writers such as Samuel P. Huntington see it as situational. Under this definition, conservatives are seen as defending the established institutions of their time.\n\nThe Liberal Party of Australia adheres to the principles of social conservatism and liberal conservatism. It is liberal in the sense of economics. Other conservative parties are the National Party of Australia, a sister party of the Liberals, Family First Party, Democratic Labor Party, Shooters, Fishers and Farmers Party, Australian Conservatives and the Katter's Australian Party.\n\nThe second largest party in the country is the Australian Labor Party and its dominant faction is Labor Right, a socially conservative element. Australia undertook significant economic reform under the Labor Party in the mid-1980s. Consequently, issues like protectionism, welfare reform, privatization and deregulation are no longer debated in the political space as they are in Europe or North America. Moser and Catley explain: \"In America, 'liberal' means left-of-center, and it is a pejorative term when used by conservatives in adversarial political debate. In Australia, of course, the conservatives are in the Liberal Party\". Jupp points out that, \"[the] decline in English influences on Australian reformism and radicalism, and appropriation of the symbols of Empire by conservatives continued under the Liberal Party leadership of Sir Robert Menzies, which lasted until 1966\".\n\nConservatism in Brazil originates from the cultural and historical tradition of Brazil, whose cultural roots are Luso-Iberian and Roman Catholic. Brazilian conservatism from the 20th century on includes names such as Gerardo Melo Mourão and Otto Maria Carpeaux in literature; Oliveira Lima and Oliveira Torres in historiography; Sobral Pinto and Miguel Reale in law; Plinio Corrêa de Oliveira and Father Paulo Ricardo in the Catholic Church; Roberto Campos and Mario Henrique Simonsen in economics; Carlos Lacerda in the political arena; and Olavo de Carvalho in philosophy. Brazilian Labour Renewal Party, Patriota, Progressistas, Social Christian Party and Social Liberal Party are the conservative parties in Brazil.\n\nIn India, Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) represent conservative politics. The BJP is the largest right-wing conservative party. It promotes Hindu nationalism.\n\nUnder Vladimir Putin, the dominant leader since 1999, Russia has promoted explicitly conservative policies in social, cultural and political matters, both at home and abroad. Putin has attacked globalism and economic liberalism. Putin has promoted new think tanks that bring together like-minded intellectuals and writers. For example, the Izborsky Club, founded in 2012 by Aleksandr Prokhanov, stresses Russian nationalism, the restoration of Russia's historical greatness and systematic opposition to liberal ideas and policies. Vladislav Surkov, a senior government official, has been one of the key ideologists during Putin's presidency.\n\nIn cultural and social affairs, Putin has collaborated closely with the Russian Orthodox Church. Mark Woods provides specific examples of how the Church under Patriarch Kirill of Moscow has backed the expansion of Russian power into Crimea and eastern Ukraine. More broadly, \"The New York Times\" reports in September 2016 how that Church's policy prescriptions support the Kremlin's appeal to social conservatives:\n\nSouth Korea's major conservative party, the Liberty Korea Party, has changed its form throughout its history. First it was the Democratic-Republican Party (1963–1980) and its head was Park Chung-hee, who seized power in a 1961 military coup d'état and ruled as an unelected military strongman until his formal election as President in 1963. He was President for 16 years until his assassination on 26 October 1979. The Democratic Justice Party inherited the same ideology as the Democratic-Republican Party. Its head, Chun Doo-hwan, also gained power through a coup and his followers called themselves the Hanahae. The Democratic Justice Party changed its form and acted to suppress the opposition party and to follow the people's demand for direct elections. The party's Roh Tae-woo became the first President who was elected through direct election. The next form of the major conservative party was the Democratic-Liberal Party and again through election its second leader, Kim Young-sam, became the fourteenth President of Korea. When the conservative party was beaten by the opposition party in the general election, it changed its form again to follow the party members' demand for reforms. It became the New Korean Party, but it changed again one year later since the President Kim Young-sam was blamed by the citizen for the International Monetary Fund. It changed its name to Grand National Party (GNP). Since the late Kim Dae-jung assumed the presidency in 1998, GNP had been the opposition party until Lee Myung-bak won the presidential election of 2007.\n\nThe meaning of \"conservatism\" in the United States has little in common with the way the word is used elsewhere. As Ribuffo (2011) notes, \"what Americans now call conservatism much of the world calls liberalism or neoliberalism\". Since the 1950s, conservatism in the United States has been chiefly associated with the Republican Party. However, during the era of segregation many Southern Democrats were conservatives and they played a key role in the Conservative coalition that largely controlled domestic policy in Congress from 1937 to 1963, The Conservative Democrats continued to have influence in the U.S. politics until 1994's Republican Revolution, when the American South shifted from solid Democrat to solid Republican, while maintaining its conservative values.\n\nMajor priorities within American conservatism include support for the traditional family, law and order, the right to bear arms. Christian values, anti-communism and a defense of \"Western civilization from the challenges of modernist culture and totalitarian governments\". Economic conservatives and libertarians favor small government, low taxes, limited regulation and free enterprise. Some social conservatives see traditional social values threatened by secularism, so they support school prayer and oppose abortion and homosexuality. Neoconservatives want to expand American ideals throughout the world and show a strong support for Israel. Paleoconservatives, in opposition to multiculturalism, press for restrictions on immigration. Most U.S. conservatives prefer Republicans over Democrats and most factions favor a strong foreign policy and a strong military. The conservative movement of the 1950s attempted to bring together these divergent strands, stressing the need for unity to prevent the spread of \"Godless communism\", which Reagan later labeled an \"evil empire\". During the Reagan administration, conservatives also supported the so-called \"Reagan Doctrine\" under which the U.S. as part of a Cold War strategy provided military and other support to guerrilla insurgencies that were fighting governments identified as socialist or communist. The Reagan administration also adopted Neoliberalism and trickle-down economics, as well as Reaganomics, which made for economic growth in the 1980s, fueled by trillion dollar deficits.\n\nOther modern conservative positions include opposition to big government and opposition to environmentalism. On average, American conservatives desire tougher foreign policies than liberals do. Economic liberalism, deregulation and social conservatism are main principles of the Republican Party.\nMost recently, the Tea Party movement, founded in 2009, has proven a large outlet for populist American conservative ideas. Their stated goals include rigorous adherence to the U.S. Constitution, lower taxes and opposition to a growing role for the federal government in health care. Electorally, it was considered a key force in Republicans reclaiming control of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2010.\n\nThis is a broad checklist of modern conservatism in seven countries.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, psychologists conducted research into the different motives and tendencies that account for ideological differences between left and right. The early studies focused on conservatives, beginning with Theodor W. Adorno's \"The Authoritarian Personality\" (1950) based on the F-scale personality test. This book has been heavily criticized on theoretical and methodological grounds, but some of its findings have been confirmed by further empirical research.\n\nIn 1973, British psychologist Glenn Wilson published an influential book providing evidence that a general factor underlying conservative beliefs is \"fear of uncertainty\". A meta-analysis of research literature by Jost, Glaser, Kruglanski and Sulloway in 2003 found that many factors, such as intolerance of ambiguity and need for cognitive closure, contribute to the degree of one's political conservatism. A study by Kathleen Maclay stated these traits \"might be associated with such generally valued characteristics as personal commitment and unwavering loyalty\". The research also suggested that while most people are resistant to change, liberals are more tolerant of it.\n\nAccording to psychologist Bob Altemeyer, individuals who are politically conservative tend to rank high in right-wing authoritarianism (RWA) on his RWA scale. This finding was echoed by Theodor Adorno. A study done on Israeli and Palestinian students in Israel found that RWA scores of right-wing party supporters were significantly higher than those of left-wing party supporters. However, a 2005 study by H. Michael Crowson and colleagues suggested a moderate gap between RWA and other conservative positions: \"The results indicated that conservatism is not synonymous with RWA\".\n\nPsychologist Felicia Pratto and her colleagues have found evidence to support the idea that a high social dominance orientation (SDO) is strongly correlated with conservative political views and opposition to social engineering to promote equality, though Pratto's findings have been highly controversial as Pratto and her colleagues found that high SDO scores were highly correlated with measures of prejudice. However, David J. Schneider argued for a more complex relationships between the three factors, writing \"correlations between prejudice and political conservative are reduced virtually to zero when controls for SDO are instituted, suggesting that the conservatism–prejudice link is caused by SDO\". Kenneth Minogue criticized Pratto's work, saying: \"It is characteristic of the conservative temperament to value established identities, to praise habit and to respect prejudice, not because it is irrational, but because such things anchor the darting impulses of human beings in solidities of custom which we do not often begin to value until we are already losing them. Radicalism often generates youth movements, while conservatism is a condition found among the mature, who have discovered what it is in life they most value\".\n\nA 1996 study on the relationship between racism and conservatism found that the correlation was stronger among more educated individuals, though \"anti-Black affect had essentially no relationship with political conservatism at any level of educational or intellectual sophistication\". They also found that the correlation between racism and conservatism could be entirely accounted for by their mutual relationship with social dominance orientation.\n\nA 2008 research report found that conservatives are happier than liberals and that—as income inequality increases—this difference in relative happiness increases because conservatives (more than liberals) possess an ideological buffer against the negative hedonic effects of economic inequality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24938629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24938629", "title": "Dog Gone", "text": "Dog Gone\n\n\"Dog Gone\" is the eighth episode of the eighth season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\". It originally aired on Fox in the United States on November 29, 2009. The episode features Brian, the family pet, attempting to prove that a dog's life is just as important as that of a human's, after he accidentally kills another dog with no consequences. Meanwhile, the Griffin family hires Consuela, a stereotypical Hispanic woman, as the household maid, which they each end up regretting once she takes advantage of the family's home.\n\nFirst announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International, the episode was written by series showrunner Steve Callaghan and directed by Julius Wu. It received high praise from critics for its storyline and many cultural references, in addition to receiving some criticism from PETA. According to Nielsen ratings, it was viewed in 8.48 million homes in its original airing. The episode featured guest performances by Chris Matthews, Nathan Gunn, Eddie Sotelo, Fred Tatasciore and Kel MacFarlane, along with several recurring guest voice actors for the series. \"Dog Gone\" was released on DVD along with seven other episodes from the season on June 15, 2010.\n\nAfter much anticipation, Brian receives an invitation to an award ceremony celebrating his novel, \"Faster Than the Speed of Love\", by the Rhode Island Society for Special Literary Excellence. Convinced he is a great writer, Brian attempts to gain the family's interest but fails to do so. Once he arrives at the \"award ceremony\" however, he discovers that he has misunderstood the meaning of the word \"special\", prompting him to drown his sorrows at the local bar and realize that he is not a writer, but a joke. He drives home drunk that night and accidentally runs over and kills a dog. He secretly buries the dead dog's body outside the Griffins' home and tries to keep quiet about it. Stewie, having witnessed his deed, begins to toy with Brian's guilt, eventually driving him to a state where he decides to confess to \"murder\". However, when he confesses to Joe and the Griffin family, they all laugh, saying that no one cares if a dog or any other animal is killed, especially by another animal.\n\nOutraged, Brian starts a support group, and decides to call it \"The Quahog Animal Equal Rights League\", to convince the town that the lives of animals should be of equal value to humans'. As the town citizens learn more about it, however, none of them are keen on changing their lifestyles if it means no processed meats and medical research on animals, and even become interested in how dogs taste after Brian mentions they are eaten in some cultures. Refusing to listen any further, they chase after Brian in an attempt to eat him.\n\nBrian realizes that if no one cares about the lives of animals, then he is worthless to the Griffin family and everyone else. Stewie finds Brian crying in the bathtub, and, seeing how upset Brian is and feeling sorry for him, Stewie successfully fakes his death by putting his collar (which Brian hadn't been wearing) on a stray and killing it in a liquor store fire. The Griffins are devastated upon learning about Brian's supposed death, and realize how close a friend he was to them. Seeing this, Stewie rushes upstairs to show Brian how much the Griffins still care about him, regardless of his species. Brian then realizes his life does have a purpose and thanks Stewie for helping him, and decides to remain hidden to let the Griffins grieve a little longer.\n\nMeanwhile, Quagmire accidentally knocks over a carton of Kool-Aid mix on the kitchen floor of the Griffin's house and leaves Peter to take the blame. Frustrated with having to clean Peter's messes, Lois hires a Hispanic maid named Consuela to clean their house. But Consuela quickly proves to be very stubborn, refusing to leave after her work hours and sleeping at the Griffins' house overnight, much to Peter and Lois' annoyance. They try to fire her and even bribe her to leave, but she still refuses (though she takes the money they offer her anyway). In a last-ditch attempt, Peter finally gets rid of her by tricking her into inhaling chloroform on a handkerchief, and leaves her in a basket on Joe's front porch.\n\nAt the end, Peter lets us know that everyone at \"Family Guy\" respects all living beings and assures the viewers that no animals were harmed in the making of the episode, but they did hurt the feelings of an Italian opera singer by prematurely dropping the curtain on his performance.\n\nFirst announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International in San Diego, California on July 25, 2009, by future showrunner Steve Callaghan, the episode was directed by series regular, and former \"King of the Hill\" and \"The Oblongs\" director, Julius Wu, and written by Callaghan before the conclusion of the eighth production season. The episode saw the reintroduction of the recurring character Consuela, a Hispanic maid whose first appearance was in the sixth season episode \"Believe It or Not, Joe's Walking on Air\". The character is voiced by main cast member Mike Henry.\n\n\"Dog Gone\", along with seven other episodes from \"Family Guy\"s eighth season, was released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on June 15, 2010. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Seth MacFarlane and various crew and cast members for several episodes, a collection of deleted scenes, a special mini-feature which discussed the process behind animating \"Road to the Multiverse\", and a mini-feature entitled \"Family Guy\" Karaoke.\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, anchor and political commentator Chris Matthews, voice actor Fred Tatasciore, opera singer Nathan Gunn, radio personality Eddie Sotelo and Kel MacFarlane, webmaster of the Seth MacFarlane fan site, guest starred in the episode. Recurring guest voice actors Ralph Garman, writer John Viener, writer Mark Hentemann, actress Alexandra Breckenridge, writer Alec Sulkin and writer Danny Smith also made minor appearances.\n\nIn the opening scene of the episode, Stewie is seen going through Brian's internet history, which includes searches about himself on the internet search engine Google. Later, after going to the bar to drink, Brian talks to Bill, the father from \"The Family Circus\" syndicated comic strip. After Bill tells him he should have tried harder on writing his book, Brian responds by yelling that all Bill does is \"judge\" other people, and demands for him to go home and \"fuck [his] wife in the face\", to which Bill agrees. This is also later recognized by Peter the next day, when he is seen reading the funnies, and murmurs to himself, \"this is a very shocking \"Family Circus\".\"\nNews anchor and political commentator Chris Matthews' show entitled \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\" is referenced by Stewie when he suggests Brian is getting a big head, with the guest, United States Senator Harry Reid, then appearing on Matthews' forehead, suggesting Matthews is self-centered. After Reid continues to interrupt him, however, Matthews cuts to actor Kurtwood Smith, in which Matthews appears on Smith's forehead instead.\n\nOnce Consuela is hired as the family maid, she first begins to annoy Peter by listening to stereotypical Latin music played loudly on a portable radio, in which the singer repeats the Spanish phrase \"¡Muchos horn-os!\" which literally translates to \"many ovens\" but within the context of the show is actually meant to be Spanglish for \"many horns.\" In Consuela's final appearance in the episode, she is seen watching a commercial, which parodies local commercials urging viewers to hire a lawyer if they are in a car accident.\n\nIn an attempt to try to prove that an animal has the same rights as humans, Brian starts an advocacy group, and is suggested by Lois to join PETA, but she is unable to enunciate the word differently from how she pronounces \"Peter,\" leading her husband to become confused. The end of the gag has Chris stating his belief that Betty White is a member of the organization, with his wording prompting Peter to yell, \"That doesn't even make sense!\" Brian goes on to create a public service announcement regarding animal rights, one of which involves a dog being \"tortured\" by having to listen to the radio show \"All Things Considered\" on National Public Radio, which the dog's owner leaves on for him before leaving the house.\n\nIn an improvement over the previous four episodes, the episode was viewed in 8.48 million homes in its original airing, according to Nielsen ratings, despite airing simultaneously with \"Sunday Night Football\", the television movie \"A Dog Named Christmas\" on CBS and \"Desperate Housewives\" on ABC. The episode also acquired a 4.4 rating in the 18–49 demographic, beating \"The Simpsons\", \"The Cleveland Show\" and \"American Dad!\", but was ultimately edged out slightly by \"The Simpsons\" in total viewership.\n\nReviews of the episode were highly positive, citing the Brian and Stewie storyline as a \"solid attempt to tell a good story,\" and the Consuela scenes as \"terrific.\" Ahsan Haque of IGN also noted that \"the writers deserved some credit\" for the episode, saying that, in comparison to past episodes the episode did not \"come across as a haphazardly assembled string of jokes.\" Jason Hughes of TV Squad also found the Consuela scenes to be \"hilarious,\" but found the final scene to be \"strangely uncomfortable,\" expecting Meg to be pushed out of the family hug. Todd VanDerWerff of The A.V. Club praised the handling of Brian's character in the episode, and called the Peter and PETA gag \"pretty cheap, but quite funny,\" giving the episode a B rating overall.\n\nIn February 2010, for \"rais[ing] public awareness of animal issues\", \"Dog Gone\" won a Genesis Award for television comedy, winning over \"South Park\" episode 'Whale Whores\" and \"Monk\" episode \"Mr. Monk and the Dog\". In a post on PETA's official blog, Amanda Schinke, however, was highly critical of the episode for its \"myriad of violent deaths of cartoon dogs.\" In addition, she called for the show to \"hire who can generate material that doesn't make us roll our eyes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23759925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23759925", "title": "Field metabolic rate", "text": "Field metabolic rate\n\nField metabolic rate (FMR) refers to a measurement of the metabolic rate of a free-living animal in the wild.\n\nMeasurement of the Field metabolic rate is made using the doubly labeled water method, although alternative techniques, such as monitoring heart rates, can also be used. The advantages and disadvantages of the alternative approaches have been reviewed by Butler, \"et al.\" Several summary reviews have been published.\n"}
{"id": "41461151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41461151", "title": "Fixing Sex", "text": "Fixing Sex\n\nFixing Sex: Intersex, Medical Authority, and Lived Experience, a book by Stanford anthropologist and bioethicist Katrina Karkazis, was published in 2008. Described as \"thoughtful\", \"meticulous\", and an \"authoritative treatise on intersex\", the book examines the perspectives of intersex people, their families, and clinicians to offer compassionate look at the treatment of people born with atypical sex characteristics.\n\nIn a scholarly work, Karkazis draws heavily on interviews with intersex adults, parents, and physicians to explore how intersex is understood and treated. In part 1, she reviews the history of treatment for intersex traits, highlighting the work of John Money and the introduction of the, then new, terms \"gender\", \"gender role\" and \"gender identity\". She explores the events following publication of Milton Diamond's study of the David Reimer or \"John/Joan\" case, and the ways in which public opinion impacted on medical treatment. In part 2, Karkazis presents an analysis of current medical approaches to intersex, and the risks involved, in the wake of a 2006 \"consensus statement on the management of intersex disorders\". She also reviews the methods utilised to assign a sex of rearing to intersex infants, such as genitals and penis size, chromosomes, fertility, \"sexing of the brain\", and parental wishes; these impact upon determination whether or not to proceed with early genital surgery. Part 3 interviews parents of children with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome and congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and adults with intersex experiences. Part 3 also looks at activism by intersex organizations.\n\nThe book has been well received by both clinicians and intersex groups. Gary Berkovitz, writing in the New England Journal of Medicine states that Karkazis's analysis is fair, compelling, and eloquent; \"Current consensus guidelines recommend early separation of the vagina and urethra for female subjects with abnormalities in the formation of the sex organs... Karkazis presents a compelling argument for the deferment of subsequent surgery until the patient is able to decide.\" Elizabeth Reis, reviewing the book in American Journal of Bioethics, states that the book identifies risk of incontinence, fistulas, scarring and lack of physical sensation arising from surgical intervention, and the psychological harm caused by the knowledge that \"one's genitals are 'wrong,' requiring constant medical scrutiny and 'fixing'. It \"masterfully examines the concerns and fears of all those with a stake in the intersex debate: physicians, parents, intersex adults, and activists. . . . Karkazis’s honest, multi-pronged approach poses critical questions.\" Mijeon in American Journal of Human Genetics writes that the \"conclusion is quite fitting\", \"the history of thinking about the body ... can be highly politicized and controversial\". Kenneth Copeland MD, former president of the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society describes the book as \"Masterfully balancing all aspects of one of the most polarizing, contentious topics in medicine... the most recent authoritative treatise on intersex.\"\n\nGayle Rubin describes the book as \"meticulous, sensitive, and brilliantly executed\". Arlene Baratz MD, (Accord Alliance) describes the book as \"a velvet-gloved punch to the gut\", \"astonishing, a tale told straight from the mouths of affected adults, parents, and physicians in tender and lyrical prose.\" Intersex community organization Organisation Intersex International Australia regards the book as \"approachable,\" \"compelling and recommended reading\".\n\nThe book was referenced by \"Involuntary or coerced sterilisation of intersex people in Australia,\" a 2013 report of a committee of the Senate of Australia in 2013.\n\nThe book was nominated for the Margaret Mead Award, 2010, and a finalist for the Lambda Literary Award, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "55317913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55317913", "title": "Fragmentarium", "text": "Fragmentarium\n\nFragmentarium (Digital Research Laboratory for Medieval Manuscript Fragments) is an online database to collect and collate fragments of medieval manuscripts making them available to researchers, collectors and historians worldwide. It is an international collaboration of major libraries and collections including the British Library, Bibliothèque nationale de France, Martin Schøyen Collection, Bavarian State Library, Harvard, Yale and the Vatican. It is based in Switzerland and the project's current director is Professor Christoph Flüeler from the University of Fribourg and the Virtual Manuscript Library, Switzerland.\nThe Fragmentarium project was first proposed in October 2013 and the first planning meeting took place in Cologny in 2014. It was supported initially by representatives of 12 institutions, its goal being to study the field of manuscript fragment research and look at worldwide cataloguing standards. Fragmentarium was officially launched on 1 September 2017, by the Medieval Institute of the University of Fribourg at Abbey Library of St. Gall in St. Gallen, Switzerland.\nHistorians and librarians are now able to upload images to the Fragmentarium where they will be made available for research and encouraged to publish images under a Creative Commons public domain license. The library currently operates as a closed system and will open up public resources gradually from 2018.\n\nFragmentarium follows an established Swiss codex digitisation system known as e-codices and aims to promote cooperative research and discussion between researchers and scholars from multiple institutions. As more fragments are uploaded it will be possible to reunite fragments which have become separated and compare analyses of similar manuscript pieces. Some fragments have been analysed using the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source (CHESS) to identify pigments, creating a unique \"fingerprint\" to enable it to be matched to corresponding fragments elsewhere in the world and potentially track their journey with “the potential to learn more about trade routes, historic mining sites, and the regional use of pigments and ingredients”. Other fragments have been identified as \"recycled\" into covers or bindings for later documents, a practice which was prevalent in the 15th to 17th century. The system is also useful in documenting and digitally preserving partial manuscripts which have been damaged by neglect or fire as in the Cotton library fire of 1731, or by deliberate destruction as occurred in the reformation in Scandinavia. In more recent times, in the 1950s and 1960s medieval manuscripts were frequently deliberately divided in order to attract a higher return on resale values and have subsequently become lost to researchers: Fragmentarium hopes to reunite them. Flüeler has estimated that around 90% of extant fragments are currently \"lost\" in archives. \n\nAccess to the library is free of charge.\n\nAs of 2017 the following institutions are partner participants in Fragmentarium:\n\nFragmentarium is financially supported by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Swiss National Science Foundation and the Zeno-Karl-Schindler Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31503702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31503702", "title": "Good law", "text": "Good law\n\nGood law is the concept in jurisprudence that a legal decision is still valid. That is, that a decision has not been overturned (during an appeal) or otherwise rendered obsolete (such as by a change in the underlying law).\n"}
{"id": "40693068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40693068", "title": "Gretchen Daily", "text": "Gretchen Daily\n\nGretchen C. Daily (born October 19, 1964 Washington D.C.) is the Bing Professor of Environmental Science in the Department of Biology at Stanford University, the director of the Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford, and a senior fellow at the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment. Her main research interests include biogeography, conservation biology and ecology. Daily is also a co-founder of the Natural Capital Project, a fellow of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. Daily is a board member at the Beijer Institute for Ecological Economics and the Nature Conservancy.\n\nDaily received her B.S. in biological sciences from Stanford University in 1986. She then went on to earn her M.S. in biological sciences at Stanford University in 1987 and received her Ph.D. in biological sciences from Stanford University in 1992.\n\nIn 1992 Daily was awarded the Winslow/Heinz Postdoctoral Fellow at UC Berkeley's Energy and Resources Group. In 1995 Daily became a Bing Interdisciplinary Research Scientist in the Department of Biological Sciences at Stanford University. During her time as a research scientist, Daily served as the editor for \"Nature's Services: Societal Dependence on Natural Ecosystems\", which provides examples of the benefits that ecosystems can provide for societies and ideas for how to quantify the value of these services. The Heinz Foundation noted that \"Nature's Services\" \"has served as a model for ecosystems regulation in several regions of the world and was a catalyst for the U.N.'s Millennium Ecosystem Assessment.\" After 7 years as a research scientist, Daily was appointed as an associate professor in the Department of Biological Sciences and as a senior fellow at the Institute of International Studies (both at Stanford University) in 2002. In 2002, Daily also co-wrote the book \"The New Economy of Nature: The Quest to Make Conservation Profitable\" with Katherine Ellison.\n\nIn 2005, Daily was appointed as the Bing Professor of Environmental Science in the Department of Biology at Stanford University, a senior fellow at the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment and was made the director of the Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford University. As of 2013, Daily still holds all three of these positions.\n\nIn 2005 Daily (the project leader from Stanford), along with partners at The Nature Conservancy, the University of Minnesota, and the World Wildlife Fund, established the Natural Capital Project. The organization's stated goal is to \"improve the state of biodiversity and human well-being by motivating greater and more cost-effective investments in both.\" As one of the directors of the Natural Capital Project, Daily \"serves as [the organization's] chief emissary to financial and government leaders.\" In 2006, Daily became a member of the board of directors of the Nature Conservancy. Daily served as the inaugural Humanitas Visiting Professor in Sustainability Studies at the University of Cambridge in 2013.\n\nDaily has received numerous prestigious awards and honors throughout her academic career, including the 21st Century Scientist Award (2000), The Sophie Prize (2008), The International Cosmos Prize (2009), The 16th Annual Heinz Award with special focus on global change, the Midori Prize (2010), the Volvo Environment Prize (2012), and the Blue Planet Prize (2017).\n\nDaily's academic profile at the Center for Conservation Biology states that \"Daily’s scientific research is on countryside biogeography and the future dynamics of biodiversity change.\" In an interview, Daily remarked that \"'Countryside biogeography' is a new conceptual framework for elucidating the fates of populations, species, and ecosystems in ‘countryside’ – the growing fraction of Earth's unbuilt land surface whose ecosystem qualities are strongly influenced by humanity.\"\n\nUsing findings from research done in countryside biogeography, Daily, and researchers like her, is attempting to determine what \"species are most important and most merit protection\" and \"what is the scientific basis for deciding\" the relative importance of species within a given ecosystem. When asked \"which species/systems most merit protection?\" Daily responded that she is \"actively attempting to link projected changes in biodiversity and ecosystems to changes in 'services' to humanity.\" She went on to cite \"production of goods,\" \"life-support processes,\" \"life-fulfilling conditions\" and \"options (genetic diversity for future use)\" as the services that ecosystems/species provide for humans. \nAs one of the co-founders of the Natural Capital Project, Daily employs her research practically by working \"with private landowners, economists, lawyers, business people, and government agencies to incorporate environmental issues into business practice and public policy.\"\n\nDaily has authored, coauthored and/or edited five books. Daily has published more than 200 scientific and popular articles. She has published articles in many prestigious journals, including \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America\", \"Nature\" and \"Science\".\n\nSome of her most cited/influential publications:\n\n\"Nature's Services: Societal Dependence on Natural Ecosystems\" was published in 1997 by Island Press. \"Nature's Services\" starts off with an introduction from Daily titled \"What are Ecosystem Services\" and another introductory piece by Harold Mooney and Paul Ehrlich that seeks to detail the \"fragmentary history\" of ecosystem services. After the introductions, the book is split into four distinct sections that address different elements of ecosystem services.\n\nThe first section of the book address the economic issues involved in assigning value to ecosystem services in the first place. The next two sections outline different kinds of services that can be provided by nature, \"Overarching Services\" and \"Services Supplied by Major Biomes.\" The overarching services section includes papers like \"Biodiversity and Ecosystem Functioning\" by David Tilman, \"Ecosystem Services Supplied by Soil\" by Daily, Pamela Matson and Peter Vitousek and \"Services Provided by Pollinators\" by Gary Nabhan and Stephen Buchmann The \"Services Provided by Major Biomes\" section includes papers regarding topics like \"Marine Ecosystems\" by Charles Peterson and Jane Lubchenco and \"The World's Forests and their Ecosystem Services\" by Norman Myers\n\nThe last section of the book includes case studies which showcase different services that distinct ecosystems provide to people around the world. Examples include: \"Water Quality Improvements by Wetlands\" by Katherine Ewel and \"Ecosystem Services in a Modern Economy: Gunnison County, Colorado\" by Andrew Wilcox and John Harte. In the conclusion of the book, Daily remarks that the \"core analyses presented in this book attempt to value ecosystems and their component species only insofar as they confer benefits, in the form of life-support goods and services, to human beings\" but that this \"focus does not in any way preclude making decisions on the basis of other values as well.\"\n\nIn his review of the book, James Salzman concluded that \"Nature's Services\", in contrast with efforts like the Endangered Species Act, \"takes a different, potentially more effective tack, calling for explicit recognition of ecosystem services because of the direct, tangible benefits they provide. Such recognition could provide a more integrated and compelling basis for action than those suggested by a single-species or biodiversity protection for the simple reason that the impacts of those services on humans are more immediate and undeniably important.\"\n\n\"The New Economy of Nature: The Quest to Make Conservation Profitable\" was co-written by Daily and Katherine Ellison and was published on September 1, 2003, by Island Press. The book presents different cases studies where companies or governments were able to actually profit from their conservation efforts. One chapter describes how New York \"decided to meet federal requirements to improve\nwater quality with a less expensive, though more controversial, option of protecting watershed integrity through land purchases and development limits, rather than adopt the technological solution of a multibillion dollar treatment facility.\" While another chapter offers \"an assessment of plans to manage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by developing a worldwide system of carbon\ntrading patterned on the U.S. experience with pollution\"\n\nKenneth Arrow remarked that Daily and Ellison \"have delineated the new movement to make conservation of natural resources financially rewarding and illustrate in a lively and probing manner many cases of profitable activities that also preserve the biosphere.\"\n\nIn his review of the book, Patrick Wilson stated that \"The most notable contribution of \"The New Economy of Nature\" is its balanced message, optimistic and cautious.\" He goes on to say that the book \"avoids the fallacy that the market is the solution to our environmental protection challenges and that, if allowed to operate free of government intervention, it can somehow make the policymaking choices less problematic and the tradeoffs less daunting\" and that \"it challenges elements of environmental orthodoxy that hold that the market, because of its short-term orientation and emphasis on profit over conservation, is an intrinsic threat to nature and the only solution is increased government oversight and financial commitment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9797480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797480", "title": "Gómez Pereira", "text": "Gómez Pereira\n\nGómez Pereira (1500–1567) was a Spanish philosopher, doctor, and natural humanist from Medina del Campo. Pereira worked hard to dispel medieval concepts of medicine and proposed the application of empirical methods; as for his philosophy, it is of the standard direction and his reasonings are a clear precedent of René Descartes. He was the first to propose the famous \"Cogito ergo sum\", in 1554, commonly attributed to Descartes. He was famous for his practice of medicine, although he had many diverse occupations, such as owning businesses, engineering, and philosophy.\n\nNot much is known of his life, because there was no one who took care of his manuscripts. What is known is the result of the investigation of unrelated documents to which researchers have given shape, many of them having to do with business or lawsuits.\n\nBorn in 1500 in Medina del Campo, he was the second of five brothers; his father, Antonia Pereira, owned a small shop of \" xerguería,\" i.e., fabrics and low quality cloths. His mother, Margarita de Medina, died in 1515 and her sons went to the care of her aunt Ana de Avila. It is thought that Pereira descended from a family of converted Jews originally from Portugal, though this is not certain because the source of this was a neighbor that testified against him in a lawsuit.\n\nHowever, we cannot rule out this conversion because we know that, until his marriage, Pereira lived with his parents on Serrano street, which is located in the old Jewish quarter of town.\n\nPereira studied natural philosophy at the University of Salamanca with professor Juan Martínez Silíceo (who later became the archbishop of Toledo between 1545 and 1557). There, apparently, he was actively involved in the disputes between the realists and the nominalists, preferring the latter and rejecting the authority of the old masters in favor of knowledge provided by experience and reason. Here, he also studied medicine, concluding his studies 1520.\n\nHe then returned to Medina where he established himself as a doctor. He married Isabel Rodriguez and lived on Rúa Nueva (now Padilla Street) where he worked as a doctor and managed the business that he inherited from his family. He possessed a considerable amount of capital and invested in a wide range of business including responsibility for making the actual income and managing the collection of several parishes, trading and warehousing wines, and renting rooms to other merchants who went to the \"Great Exhibitions of the Kingdom\" that took place in Medina.\n\nHis fame as a physician exceeded the boundaries of Medina, and he practiced in Burgos, Segovia, Ávila and other important cities of Castille. He even came to the court of Phillip II where he was summed to attend upon Prince Charles, heir to the unfortunate throne, who had suffered a serious accident. Thanks to Pereira, the Prince lived until 1568. He was also interested in the construction of hydraulic devices and, with his companion Francisco Lobato, designed a watermill dam that could function without water, which was patented in 1563.\n\nIn folio 26 of the \"Manuscripts of Francisco Lobato\", the Medinan engineer decided to design a special mill, at the initiative of King Maxmilian II of Austria, who at the time was in Vallodolid (ca. 1550), a refugee from the wars against the Protestants. The future king of Bohemia took a fancy to go up the Douro River, so he commanded a galley be built and ordered the removal of any building that disrupted his navigation, i.e., fisheries and mills. This greatly harmed the locals who came to Lobato and Pereira to design a mill that could grind with the force of water without being directly on the river bank. Lobato goes on to explain that a model they tested on the Zapardiel River \"milled and shook with reasonable force…, but it sucked in so much water that, by midday, there wasn't a single drop.\" Although the model was refined with a dam that returned the water to the river, the king paid no attention, and the project fell into oblivion. Lobato complained bitterly that, despite the promises of funding by the Habsburgs, \"we have already spent 150 ducats…and he never paid me anything—someday I'll have to ask for it.\"\n\nPereira's unique thought arose from his synthesis of philosophy and medicine. He rejected the authority of the old masters and medievals in favor of reason, logic and experience. Moreover, he often used paradoxes and syllogisms to expose the errors of those he questioned. Thus, it can be argued that his philosophy was more negative than positive, but this is understandable considering the context of ideological suppression in the face of religious authority, as well the veiled accusations about Pereira's Jewish origins. The famous essayist Menéndez Pelayo wrote of this famous thinker:\n\nIn experimental psychology, Gómez Pereira is, without a doubt, more advanced than his time, more than the seventeenth century, more than Bacon, more than Descartes. None noted the phenomenon of his intelligence.\n\n\"Novae veraeque Medicinae\" is a medical treatise that focuses on the study of fevers [its causes and types] as well as other specific diseases like leprosy and smallpox. In this work, which he dedicated to Prince Don Carlos, Pereira challenges the tradition of Aristotle and Galen, as well as the medieval tradition of \"magister dixit\". His is an entirely empirical and rational method, based in his experience as a physician. The healing methods are simple, and the doctor, because of his method and experience, is the final criterion of truth (as opposed to truths of religion or faith). \"In no case of religious things will I give the opinion and sentence of some philosopher if it is not based on reason.\"\n\nGómez Pereira felt that the heat generated by a fever is the body's defense mechanism to remove the damage that affects it and, thus, nature restores the natural balance of any body, a surprisingly modern conception of fever as a reaction against disease. As for his studies of diseases such as leprosy or smallpox, Pereira's conclusions were later commended by the physician and historian Antonio Hernández Morejón.\n\n\"Antoniana Margarita\" was reprinted many times but only very recently translated into Castilian (2000, form the original Latin). The work is dedicated to his teacher Juan Martinez Silicium and is a tribute to his parents, Antonio and Margarita, even though the subtitle of clearly indicates its scientific and philosophical contents: \"a work so useful and necessary for medical, physical, and theologians (\"Opus nempe phisicis, ac medicis teologis, non minus utile quam necessarium\").\n\nA difficult text to read because there are no chapters or paragraphs, the document uses the language of the \"christianos nuevos\" (New Christians) to explore new ideas from empiricism and materialism, possibly an effort to hide potentially controversial and blasphemous methods of reasoning (16th Century Castile, the Council of Trent had already begun). Thus, the Pereira did not venture to develop the logical conclusions to their fullest extent.\n\nIt is a philosophical treatise that addresses three key issues: the \"automatism of beasts\"; the theory of human knowledge; the immortality of the soul.\n\nPereira's paradigm is typical of the Christian humanism of the Renaissance, denying that animals are equal to humans, while acknowledging some resemblance. Both have a body with five senses, but in the case of animals, the senses do not lead to knowledge, but cause automatic reactions. Indeed, many animals are capable of acting on internal impulses (\"soma\"), upon external stimuli (\"specie\" and \"phantasma\"), and have some non-conscious ability to learn (\"memoria\"). Nevertheless, Pereira denies animals the capacity for real knowledge: \"\"bruta sensu carent\".\"\n\nThe idea had many supporters, because, as indicated by the author himself, if animals feel just like humans, there would be nothing to differentiate, and if humans and animals are equal, animals can also learn about the Universal, which would be \"absurd and impious.\" But he also had detractors, some of them very close. The physician Francisco de Sosa, who published in 1556 his work \"Endecálago against Antoniana Margarita, in which is treated many and very sensitive reasons and authorities of the proofs of the feeling and movement of brutes.\"\n\nIn this sense, Pereira's ideas are radically opposed to medieval scholasticism. He argues that knowledge enters through the sensory organs, as in animals, but only the human soul, its spirit, is capable of converting the information provided by the senses into real thought. This is one of the qualities of the soul, the ability to extract from physical sensations the substance of things (universals) through this process of abstraction. But Gómez Pereira believes that sensation and intellect go together in such a way that in human beings there is something that identifies the faculty of feeling with the quality of thought, in the same way, e.g., that thought and language are linked: \"if you feel, you understand.\"\n\nThus, knowledge would be an essential faculty of the soul, and, moreover, the human being has a soul conscious of itself, that exists thanks to the thoughts it develops. In this work (\"Antoniana Margarita\"), there is the phrase \"I know that I know something, anyone who knows exists, then I exist\" (\"Nosco me aliquid noscere, & quidquid noscit, est, ergo ego sum\").\n\nHistory has not recognized his contribution even though Descartes had already been accused of plagiarism in his time, for example by Pierre Daniel Huet.\n\nAlthough Pereira recognizes that animals have souls, it dies with them. The human soul, however, is self-sufficient and thus immortal. He provides three proofs that he claims had not been discovered. First, because of its consciousness, the human soul is capable of knowing independent of the body, and thus is capable of existing despite the body's death. Secondly, the human soul does not change even though the body ages or becomes diseased, that is, its essence is not affected by extrinsic factors. Thirdly, it is the desire of all humans to attain happiness, which, alongside the wish to know the future and the consequences of our actions, are the reasons that prompt us to do good, because evil deeds lead to punishment and misfortune.\n\nAfter René Descartes published his \"Discourse on Method\" in 1637, the originality of the thoughts was questioned and even said to be an overt plagiarism of Gómez Pereira, as the Spanish philosopher had been studied by many prestigious intellectuals during the 16th and 17th Centuries.\n\nThe first to suggest the similarities between the two was Pierre Daniel Huet, originally a follower then an opponent of Cartesian philosophy. Descartes himself was forced to defend himself against these accusations, as is evidenced by a letter he wrote in 1641 to his friend Father Marin Mersenne:\n\nMany scholars of the 17th and 18th Centuries sided with Descartes and despised the work of Pereira, among them Pierre Bayle (although he did recognize the similarity between the two) and the Enclyopedists Diderot and d'Alembert who said:\n\nHowever, many others have defended the contrary thesis. Even accepting that Descartes may not have read the work of Pereira, they argue that he was influenced indirectly, especially through the work of another Spanish physician and philosopher, Francisco Valles, who read it in French. Among those who accuse Descartes of being a counterfeit are Isaac Cardoso and Voltaire.\n\nThe basis for this criticism is the striking similarities between the two thinkers on some key points:\n\n"}
{"id": "3510457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3510457", "title": "Hadi Sabzavari", "text": "Hadi Sabzavari\n\nHadi Sabzavari () or Hajj Molla Hadi Sabzavari (1797–1873) was a famous Iranian philosopher, mystic theologian and poet.\n\nMolla Hadi lived in Qajar period. According to his description, this period was along with descend of Hikmah; he also complaint of his period for the sake of lacking knowledge and philosophy. This kind of entrance to subject, was common among Islamic philosophers. There was an intellectual and spiritual turmoil in Qajar period. In fact in this period, Iranian encountered with new European thought and revival of traditional thinking; also in this period we can see the diverse divisions in beliefs like Bahaei,Babi, shaykhi and at the same time weakness and disappearance of Shiite.\nMolla Hadi counted as one of the four prominent masters of Tehran philosophical school. He was along with Aqa ‘Ali Mudarris, Aqa Muhammad Riza Qumshihi, Mirza Abul Hasan Jelveh.\n\nHe was born in Sabzevar, Iran to a family of land-owning merchants. His formal education started as a young age under his cousin, Molla Hosayn Sabzavari, and he wrote a small treatise at the age of seven. His father died when he was seven or eight years old and his uncle Molla Ḥosayn Sabzavari, became his caretaker. When he reached the age of ten, he was taken by his cousin to Mashhad. There, he resided in the Hajj Hasan madrasa near the mausoleum of Imam Reza, where he studied Arabic, Islamic Jurisprudence, logic, and the principles of religion and law with Molla Hosay for a period of ten years. When he turned twenty, he returned to his hometown of Sabzavar. From there, he prepared his plans for the Hajj and set out in the direction of Isfahan. During this period, Isfahan was an important intellectual center of Iran, where philosophy and intellectual mysticism ('Erfan) flourished.\n\nAmong the important masters of these tradition at the time, the names of Mollā ʿAli Nuri (died 1830–31) and Mollā Esmāʿil Eṣfahāni, a student of Nuri, were prominent. They taught Islamic philosophy, mostly of Sadr al-Din Shirazi and his school. He remained in Isfahan for around eight or nine years, where he studied under these two undisputed masters of Mulla Sadra's school of philosophy. He concentrated on the main works of Mulla Sadra, such as the Asfar and Al-Shawahed al-Robubiya. Simultaneously, he also studied Islamic jurisprudence with Aqa Mohammad 'Ali Najafi, one of the major Shia scholars of Isfahan. In Isfahan, Sabzevari lived a life of pietry despite having received a substantial inheritance. According to the orientalist Edward Browne, “he used to take pains to discover which of the students stood most in need of pecuniary help, and would then secretly place sums of money in their room during their absence, without leaving any clue that would lead to the identification of the donor. In this way he is said to have expended no less than 100,000 tumáns (about 30,000 Pounds Sterling), while he was in Isfahan, leaving himself only so much as he deemed necessary for his own maintenance”.\n\nIn In 1826–27, Sabzavari returned to Mashhad. There he began to teach in the Hājj Hasan madrasa although the scholars in Mashhad did not have the same interest in philosophy as Isfahan. The atmosphere of Mashhad was not as open as Isfahan for the pursuit of intellectual sciences. However, he continued to teach both the transmitted science as well as the intellectual sciences. He thought the intellectual sciences based on his work al-Manzuma, which he must have composed in Isfahan. His commentary on this important work of his however was completed in 1845. In 1831–32, he set out for Sabzavar where he made preparation for the Hajj. He left for Mecca in 1832–33 where he performed the rites of the pilgrimage. He returned to Iran in 1834–35 during the interval of the death of Fath Ali Shah Qajar. During this period of anarchy, traveling within Iran had become dangerous. Having lost his wife in Hajj, he settled in Kerman while waiting for calmer conditions to return to Khorasan. During the year he spent in Kerman, he was enganged in asceticism while agreeing to sweep the religious school for its keeper who provided him a room to live in. He married the keeper's daughter that year who was later to accompany him to Sabzavar. At this time, no one knew his real identity and degree of knowledge.\n\nIn 1836–37, Sabzavari set to Sabzavar and established a center for the study of Islamic philosophy and gnosis. The school he established rivaled with the schools of Tehran and Isfahan due to his personality. For a period of 10 months, he also thought in Mashhad. However, the rest of time was spent in Sabzevar where he made the Fasihiya school the center of teaching. This school became known as Madrasa-ye Ḥāji, where part of it still survives till this day. Scholars and students began to flock from all over Persia, Iraq, Turkey, Caucasus, India and even Tibet. His name became widespread all over Iran so much so that in 1857–58, when Naser al-Din Shah Qajar made a pilgrimage to Mashhad, he stopped in Sabzavar and paid a visit to hakim Sabzavari. The Qajar King became very impressed by the philosopher and asked his royal photographer Aqa Reza 'Akkas-Bashi to photograph the hakim. The picture, which is widely available, is the oldest picture of an Islamic philosopher. The Qajar king also requested from him a book in Persian containing the complete theory and cycle of traditional philosophy. Sabzavari obliged and composed the two Persian books: the Asrāral-ḥekam, which he dedicated to Naser al-Din Shah and also another book titled Hedāyat al-ṭālebin. Sabzavari died suddenly in 1872, probably as a result of heart failure. The date of his death is recorded in several chronographs, including the numerical value of the couplet \"ka namord zendatar shod\" (\"He did not die but became more alive after his passing\") which was composed by one of his students.\n\nSabzavari wrote some fifty-two works of prose and poetry in both Arabic and Persian. He wrote the Asrar al-hikmah (\"The Secrets of Wisdom\"), which, together with his Arabic treatise Sharh-i manzumah (\"A Treatise on Logic in Verse\"), remains a basic text for the study of hikmat doctrines in Iran. Not limited to philosophy, he also wrote poetry under the name of Asrar and completed a commentary on the Masnavi of Jalal ad-Din ar-Rumi, the great mystic poet of Islam.\n\nFor philosophy in the reign of Nasir al-Din Shah Qajar (1848–1896), he was what Mulla Sadra had been in the reign of Shah Abbas I. He was also the faithful interpreter of Mulla Sadra and Transcendent Theosophy. He played a part in making Mulla Sadra the 'master thinker' of the Iranian philosophers. It could even be said that circumstances permitted him, to a greater extent than Mulla Sadra, to give free rein to his genius as a mystical theosopher, because there was greater freedom of self-expression during the Safavid epoch.\n\nSabzevari wrote numerous works in Persian and Arabic. He wrote works dealing with an array of subjects from prosody to logic to theology. However, the majority of his works deal with philosophy and mysticism.\n\n\nThe book was written for Naser al-Din Shah after the Shah while passing through Sabzavār asked Mulla Hadi Sabzevari to write a him a book about man's origin and destination in Persian together with the mysteries of God’s onenes. The book was completed in 1868 and it deals with concepts of illuminative wisdom (ešrāq) and peripatetic philosophy, and is rich in intuitive and mystic insights.\n\nThe gnosis of Sabzavari falls into three categories which are: (1) knowledge of God, consisting of knowledge of the beginning and knowledge of the end; (2) knowledge of one's self; (3) knowledge of God’s commands, consisting of knowledge of every rule of divine law (šarīʿa) and knowledge of the spiritual path (ṭarīqa). On the basis of this classification, the book is divided into two parts.\n\nPart I of the book consists of seven chapters:\n\nPart II comprises four chapters\n\nThe most important part of the book is on the proof of the Necessarily Existent (i.e., God).\n\n\nMulla Sadra\n\nSuhrawardi\n\nAvicenna\n\nIslamic philosophy\n\n"}
{"id": "348656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348656", "title": "Harambee", "text": "Harambee\n\nHarambee is a Kenyan tradition of community self-help events, e.g. fundraising or development activities. \"Harambee\" literally means \"all pull together\" in Swahili, and is also the official motto of Kenya and appears on its coat of arms. \n\nHarambee events may range from informal affairs lasting a few hours, in which invitations are spread by word of mouth, to formal, multi-day events advertised in newspapers. These events have long been important in parts of East Africa, as ways to build and maintain communities.\n\nFollowing Kenya's independence in 1963, the first Prime Minister, and later first President of Kenya, Jomo Kenyatta adopted \"Harambee\" as a concept of pulling the country together to build a new nation. He encouraged communities to work together to raise funds for all sorts of local projects, pledging that the government would provide their startup costs. Under this system, wealthy individuals wishing to get into politics could donate large amounts of money to local harambee drives, thereby gaining legitimacy; however, such practices were never institutionalised during Kenyatta's presidency.\n\nA popular etymology deriving the term from the name of a Hindu goddess, \"Amba Mata\" (a form of Durga riding a Tiger) has been proposed, supposedly via Hindu railway linesmen carrying loads of iron rails and sleeper blocks who would chant \"har, har Ambe!\" (\"praise Amba\") when working.\n\nThe first president, Jomo Kenyatta has been said to have witnessed such a railway line team as it worked in cohesion and harmony and derived the term from there. The actual etymology of the term is, however, cited as genuinely Bantu, from the Miji Kenda term \"halumbe\" \"to pull or push together\". \n\nThe word \"Harambee\" and the concept of \"harambee\" funds-drives have received criticism. The word was originally adopted by Jomo Kenyatta into the Kenyan philosophy to mean \"pulling together\" or cooperating in community projects. \n\nDue to repeated abuse, the word \"Harambee\" is often perceived to refer to manipulative or deceptive collection of monetary funds from the public. \n\n\"Harambee\" funds drives have been repeatedly abused through:-\n\nKenyan Christians have criticised the use of the word \"Harambee\" as an official term due to its apparent hindu origin. \"Harambee\" is neither a Hindu god nor a hindu word; it is a Swahili word and Kenyan. The objections have also been dismissed on the basis that even if the supposed derivation from \"Hare Ambeh\" (Hail Ambeh) were true, it has become irrelevant to the term's modern usage and meaning.\n\nIn January 2002, the Risk Advisory Group Ltd commissioned by President Moi's administration as part of the anti-corruption efforts recommended the abolition of \"harambee\" or the \"spirit of pulling together\".\n\nIn 2003 when the National Rainbow Coalition NARC took over from the Kenya African National Union KANU, President Mwai Kibaki enacted the Public Officers Ethics Act which prohibited Members of Parliament and Cabinet Secretaries from presiding over \"Harambees\".\n\nIn February 2018, a petition was presented to the Kenyan Parliament, Senate, seeking to have the word \"HARAMBEE\" removed from the Public Seal on the claim that it represents a Hindu Goddess .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3349643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349643", "title": "Harrison Allen", "text": "Harrison Allen\n\nHarrison Allen (1841–1897) was an American physician and anatomist, born in Philadelphia. He graduated from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1861, and in 1862 became a surgeon in the United States Army and served until the conclusion of the Civil War in 1865. Doctor Allen should not be confused with the Union Army officer who was colonel of the 151st Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry Regiment, who was mustered out July 31, 1863 and later was awarded the grade of brevet brigadier general.\n\nIn 1865 he was made professor of comparative anatomy and medical zoölogy at the University of Pennsylvania. He was transferred in 1878 to the chair of physiology, which he occupied until 1895.\n\nIn addition to many papers contributed to medical journals, he authored a number of books:\n\n"}
{"id": "41286880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41286880", "title": "Henri Wald", "text": "Henri Wald\n\nHenri \"Ricu\" Wald (October 31, 1920 – 2002; name also spelled Henry Wald) was a Romanian professor, philosopher, logician, and essayist.\n\nWald was born to a family of small merchants in Bucharest, the capital of Romania. Wald first became interested in philosophy at age sixteen, during a lecture given by one of his teachers. He was forced to leave high school in 1940 due to discriminatory anti-Jewish laws. Thus, Wald studied at a private college for Jewish students.\n\nDuring World War II, Wald served in a forced labor detachment due to him being Jewish. In terms of his political views, Wald was a Communist and \"a radical antifascist\". Wald began publishing in September 1944 in the newspaper \"Tribuna poporului\" (The People’s Tribune). In addition, he also contributed to several additional leftist periodicals and to some cultural publications as well. Wald graduated from the faculty of philosophy at the University of Bucharest in 1946, after writing a dissertation called “The Petty Bourgeois Mentality.” Wald became a professor of philosophy in Bucharest in 1948, a job which he occupied until 1962 (when he was fired due to his opposition to the official \"nationalist-communism\" stance of the then-Romanian government). Wald worked in several other educational institutions as well until his retirement in 1983. Due to his political commitments, Wald also worked in the propaganda department for the Communist Romanian regime in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Later on in his life, Wald became significantly closer to Judaism, which he thought was a \"matrix of humanist thinking\". Late in his life, the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company’s Center for Oral History (C.O.H.) conducted an interview with Wald where he talked about and discussed his life story. Wald died in 2002, at the age of 80.\n\n"}
{"id": "1998665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1998665", "title": "Jean Beaufret", "text": "Jean Beaufret\n\nJean Beaufret (; 22 May 1907 in Auzances7 August 1982 in Paris) was a French philosopher and Germanist tremendously influential in the reception of Martin Heidegger's work in France.\n\nAfter graduating from the École Normale Supérieure and completing military service Beaufret passed his \"agrégation de philosophie\" in 1933 and undertook a career teaching as a lycée philosophy instructor. His early philosophical interests were in 19th century German philosophy, particularly GWF Hegel, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, and Karl Marx. In the period before the Second World War, he came to know Paul Éluard, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, André Breton, and Paul Valéry. During the war, he was a prisoner and escaped. Then he became a member of the Resistance near the city of Lyon in the \"Service Périclès\".\n\nIn 1946, as Heidegger's continued teaching privileges came into question by the denazification committees, he made Beaufret's acquaintance. Beaufret engaged Heidegger on the development of French existentialism, and Heidegger wrote the \"Letter on Humanism\" (Brief über den Humanismus) to Beaufret in response. Beaufret took his students to visit Heidegger at Todtnauberg in 1947 following a month-long Franco-German academic exchange at Freiburg im Breisgau, while Baden-Württemberg was still under French occupation. Jean-François Lyotard, one of the group of students on the trip selected to visit Heidegger, wrote about the experience thus:\n\nBeaufret remained a close associate of Heidegger's, and it was through Beaufret that Heidegger became aware of Jacques Derrida's work.\n\nHe was \"a legendary professor of philosophy, having trained generations of students and future professors\" (D. Pettigrew and F. Raffoul, \"French Interpretations of Heidegger\", p. 6).\n\nBeaufret is considered the wellspring of \"orthodox French Heideggerianism,\" which was the element of French philosophy that was most dismissive of Heidegger's involvement with National Socialism after the French publication in 1987 of Víctor Farías's \"Heidegger and Nazism\". One reason for Beaufret's dismissal of Farías may have been the latter's revealing that Beaufret, according to Farías, had written in agreement with the holocaust denial of Robert Faurisson (however such interpersonal relations are exaggerated given that Beaufret's interest in Heidegger's thought was central to his own philosophical growth as a thinker, and his focus was mainly on the conceptual merits of Heideggerianism). In a letter sent to Faurisson, Beaufret is quoted as saying:\n\n\"I believe that for my part I have traveled approximately the same path as you and have been considered suspect for having expressed the same doubts [concerning the existence of the gas chambers]. Fortunately for me, this was done orally.\" Also Jacques Derrida was shocked by Beaufret's anti-Semitic tirade against Emmanuel Levinas. replied that Beaufret actually wrote this letter in 1978, long before Faurisson declared himself as a true negationist, so that he is absolutely not denying the Holocaust. Beaufret wrote the letter only because Faurisson, who was a former student of his, had been violently attacked in the street. Concerning the so-called anti-Semitic tirade, Jacques Derrida actually didn't hear it : this was reported to him by a friend, Roger Laporte, and Beaufret denied it completely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37509229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37509229", "title": "Johan Andreas Dèr Mouw", "text": "Johan Andreas Dèr Mouw\n\nJohan Andreas Dèr Mouw (24 July 1863 – 8 July 1919) was a Dutch poet and philosopher. During Dèr Mouw's life only some of his poems were published in literary journals.\n\nDèr Mouw was born in Westervoort. His father Jacob Cornelis der Mouw (orig. Dermauw) was for a short period insurance agent and bookseller; his mother Anna Elisabeth Zillinger was director of a school in Deventer. Dèr Mouw attended the Gymnasium (grammar school) in Deventer and studied at Leiden University from 1883 up to 1887, where he took up Greek, Latin, Sanskrit and philosophy. After graduating, Dèr Mouw got a job as teacher at the Gymnasium in Doetinchem.\nHe defended his doctoral dissertation (\"Quomodo Antiqui Naturam mirati sunt?\") at Leiden University in 1890. In 1893 Dèr Mouw married Hendrika van Enst. Their stepdaughter Teuntje Vink was later renamed Hetty der Mouw.\nDèr Mouw's companionship with the son of the headmaster of the Gymnasium in Doetinchem led to a conflict. He was sued and convicted for insulting the headmaster. (His attorney was Pieter Jelles Troelstra). In the course of the scandal Dèr Mouw tried to commit suicide. Afterwards, Dèr Mouw moved to Rijswijk in 1904, and later to The Hague, where he supported his family by giving private tuition. He devoted the rest of his life to writing poetry and studying philosophy. He published two books on philosophy, with special attention to Hegel.\n\nThe poetry of Dèr Mouw is special, because he manages to express his mystical view on the world in clear words, that have a down-to-earth appeal. This can be seen in one of his most famous poems: \"I'm Brahman. But we are without a maid\". Dèr Mouw published some of his poems in literary magazines, and was immediately recognised as an important poet by writers like Frederik van Eeden and Albert Verwey. Poets like P.C. Boutens and J.H. Leopold shared his interest for eastern mysticism.\nDèr Mouw's didn't live to see his first book, \"Brahman I\", come to light. It was published within a few weeks after his death, in July 1919.\n\nLetters and manuscripts of J.A. Dèr Mouw are being kept in the Nederlands Letterkundig Museum in The Hague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12007", "title": "Johann Gottlieb Fichte", "text": "Johann Gottlieb Fichte\n\nJohann Gottlieb Fichte (; ; May 19, 1762 – January 27, 1814), was a German philosopher who became a founding figure of the philosophical movement known as German idealism, which developed from the theoretical and ethical writings of Immanuel Kant. Recently, philosophers and scholars have begun to appreciate Fichte as an important philosopher in his own right due to his original insights into the nature of self-consciousness or self-awareness. Fichte was also the originator of \"thesis–antithesis–synthesis\", an idea that is often erroneously attributed to Hegel. Like Descartes and Kant before him, Fichte was motivated by the problem of subjectivity and consciousness. Fichte also wrote works of political philosophy; he has a reputation as one of the fathers of German nationalism.\n\nFichte was born in Rammenau, Upper Lusatia. The son of a ribbon weaver, he came of peasant stock which had lived in the region for many generations. The family was noted in the neighborhood for its probity and piety. Christian Fichte, Johann Gottlieb's father, married somewhat above his station. It has been suggested that a certain impatience which Fichte himself displayed throughout his life was an inheritance from his mother.\n\nYoung Fichte received the rudiments of his education from his father. He showed remarkable ability from an early age, and it was owing to his reputation among the villagers that he gained the opportunity for a better education than he otherwise would have received. The story runs that the Freiherr von Militz, a country landowner, arrived too late to hear the local pastor preach. He was, however, informed that a lad in the neighborhood would be able to repeat the sermon practically verbatim. As a result, the baron took the lad into his protection, which meant that he paid his tuition.\n\nFichte was placed in the family of Pastor Krebel at Niederau near Meissen and there received thorough grounding in the classics. From this time onward, Fichte saw little of his parents. In October 1774, he was attending the celebrated foundation-school at Pforta near Naumburg. This school is associated with the names of Novalis, August Wilhelm Schlegel, Friedrich Schlegel and Nietzsche. The spirit of the institution was semi-monastic and, while the education given was excellent in its way, it is doubtful whether there was enough social life and contact with the world for a pupil of Fichte's temperament and antecedents. Perhaps his education strengthened a tendency toward introspection and independence, characteristics which appear strongly in his doctrines and writings.\n\nIn 1780, he began study at the theology seminary of University of Jena. He was transferred a year later to study at the Leipzig University. Fichte seems to have supported himself at this period of bitter poverty and hard struggle. Freiherr von Militz continued to support him, but when he died in 1784, Fichte had to end his studies prematurely, without completing his degree.\n\nDuring the years 1784 to 1788, he supported himself in a precarious way as tutor in various Saxon families. In early 1788, he returned to Leipzig in the hope of finding a better employment, but eventually he had to settle for a much less promising position with the family of an innkeeper in Zurich. He lived in Zurich for the next two years (1788–1790), which was a time of great contentment for him. There he met his future wife, Johanna Rahn, and Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. There he also became in 1793 a member of the Freemasonry lodge \"Modestia cum Libertate\" with which Johann Wolfgang Goethe was also connected. In the spring of 1790, he became engaged to Johanna. In the summer of 1790, Fichte began to study the works of Kant, but this occurred initially because one of his students wanted to know about them. They had a lasting effect on the trajectory of his life and thought. While he was assimilating the Kantian philosophy and preparing to develop it, fate dealt him a blow: the Rahn family had suffered financial reverses, and his impending marriage had to be postponed.\n\nFrom Zurich, Fichte returned to Leipzig in May 1790. In the spring of 1791, he obtained a tutorship at Warsaw in the house of a Polish nobleman. The situation, however, quickly proved disagreeable and he was released. He then got a chance to see Kant at Königsberg. After a disappointing interview on July 4 of the same year, he shut himself in his lodgings and threw all his energies into the composition of an essay which would compel Kant's attention and interest. This essay, completed in five weeks, was the \"Versuch einer Critik aller Offenbarung\" (\"Attempt at a Critique of All Revelation\", 1792). In this book, according to Henrich, Fichte investigated the connections between divine revelation and Kant's critical philosophy. The first edition of the book was published without Kant or Fichte's knowledge, moreover without Fichte's name or signed preface. It was thus mistakenly thought to be a new work by Kant himself. Reviews were assuming Kant was the author when Kant cleared the confusion and openly praised the work and author. Fichte's reputation skyrocketed as many intellectuals of the day were of the opinion that it was \"the most shocking and astonishing news... [since] nobody but Kant could have written this book. This amazing news of a third sun in the philosophical heavens has set me into such confusion\". Karl Popper considers the book as essentially \"a fraud\" which though rather boring cleverly imitated Kant's style and that the rumours that Kant himself had written the book to be contrived. Kant waited seven years to make public statement about the incident; after considerable external pressure he dissociated himself from Fichte. In his statement, he inscribed, \"May God protect us from our friends. From our enemies, we can try to protect ourselves.\"\n\nIn October 1793, he was married in Zurich, where he remained the rest of the year. Stirred by the events and principles of the French Revolution, he wrote and anonymously published two pamphlets which led to him being seen as a devoted defender of liberty of thought and action and an advocate of political changes. In December of the same year, he received an invitation to fill the position of extraordinary professor of philosophy at the University of Jena. He accepted and began his lectures in May of the next year. With extraordinary zeal, he expounded his system of \"transcendental idealism\". His success was immediate. He seems to have excelled as a lecturer because of the earnestness and force of his personality. These lectures were later published under the title \"The Vocation of the Scholar\" (\"Einige Vorlesungen über die Bestimmung des Gelehrten\"). He gave himself up to intense production, and a succession of works soon appeared.\n\nAfter weathering a couple of academic storms, he was finally dismissed from Jena in 1799 as a result of a charge of atheism. He was accused of atheism in 1798 after publishing his essay \"Ueber den Grund unsers Glaubens an eine göttliche Weltregierung\" (\"On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance\"), which he had written in response to Friedrich Karl Forberg's essay \"Development of the Concept of Religion\", in his \"Philosophical Journal\". For Fichte, God should be conceived primarily in moral terms: \"The living and efficaciously acting moral order is itself God. We require no other God, nor can we grasp any other\" (\"On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance\").\n\nFichte's intemperate \"Appeal to the Public\" (\"Appellation an das Publikum\", 1799) provoked F. H. Jacobi to publish an open letter to Fichte, in which he equated philosophy in general and Fichte's transcendental philosophy in particular with nihilism.\n\nSince all the German states except Prussia had joined in the cry against him, he was forced to go to Berlin. There he associated himself with the Schlegels, Schleiermacher, Schelling and Tieck.\n\nIn April 1800, through the introduction of Hungarian writer Ignaz Aurelius Fessler, he was initiated into Freemasonry in the Lodge Pythagoras of the Blazing Star where he was elected minor warden. At first Fichte was a warm admirer of Fessler, and was disposed to aid him in his proposed Masonic reform. But later he became Fessler's bitter opponent. Their controversy attracted much attention among Freemasons. Fichte presented two lectures on the philosophy of Masonry during the same period as part of his work on the development of various higher degrees for the lodge in Berlin. A certain Johann Karl Christian Fischer, a high official of the Grand Orient, published those lectures in 1802/03 in two volumes under the title \"Philosophy of Freemasonry: Letters to Konstant\" (\"Philosophie der Maurerei. Briefe an Konstant\"), where Konstant referred to a fictitious non-Mason.\n\nIn November 1800, Fichte published \"The Closed Commercial State: A Philosophical Sketch as an Appendix to the Doctrine of Right and an Example of a Future Politics\" (\"Der geschlossene Handelsstaat. Ein philosophischer Entwurf als Anhang zur Rechtslehre und Probe einer künftig zu liefernden Politik\"), a philosophical statement of his property theory, a historical analysis of European economic relations, and a political proposal for reforming them.\n\nIn 1805, he was appointed to a professorship in Erlangen. The disaster at Jena in 1806, in which Napoleon completely crushed the Prussian army, drove him to Königsberg for a time, but he returned to Berlin in 1807 and continued his literary activity.\n\nThe deplorable situation of Germany stirred him to the depths and led him to deliver the famous \"Addresses to the German Nation\" (\"Reden an die deutsche Nation\", 1808) which guided the uprising against Napoleon. He became a professor of the new university at Berlin founded in 1810. By the votes of his colleagues Fichte was unanimously elected its rector in the succeeding year. But, once more, his impetuosity and reforming zeal led to friction, and he resigned in 1812. The campaign against Napoleon began, and the hospitals at Berlin were soon full of patients. Fichte's wife devoted herself to nursing and caught a virulent fever. Just as she was recovering, he himself was stricken down. He died of typhus at the age of 51.\n\nHis son, Immanuel Hermann Fichte (18 July 1796 – 8 August 1879), also made contributions to philosophy.\n\nIn mimicking Kant's difficult style, his critics argued that Fichte produced works that were barely intelligible. \"He made no hesitation in pluming himself on his great skill in the shadowy and obscure, by often remarking to his pupils, that 'there was only one man in the world who could fully understand his writings; and even he was often at a loss to seize upon his real meaning.'\" On the other hand, Fichte himself acknowledged the difficulty of his writings, but argued that his works were clear and transparent to those who made the effort to think without preconceptions and prejudices.\n\nFichte did not endorse Kant's argument for the existence of noumena, of \"things in themselves\", the supra-sensible reality beyond the categories of direct human perception. Fichte saw the rigorous and systematic separation of \"things in themselves\" (noumena) and things \"as they appear to us\" (phenomena) as an invitation to skepticism. Rather than invite such skepticism, Fichte made the radical suggestion that we should throw out the notion of a noumenal world and instead accept the fact that consciousness does not have a grounding in a so-called \"real world\". In fact, Fichte achieved fame for originating the argument that consciousness is not grounded in \"anything\" outside of itself. The phenomenal world as such, arises from self-consciousness; the activity of the ego; and moral awareness. His student (and critic), Arthur Schopenhauer, wrote:\n\nSøren Kierkegaard was also a student of the writings of Fichte: \n\nIn his work \"Foundations of Natural Right\" (1797), Fichte argued that self-consciousness was a social phenomenon — an important step and perhaps the first clear step taken in this direction by modern philosophy. A necessary condition of every subject's self-awareness, for Fichte, is the existence of other rational subjects. These others call or summon (\"fordern auf\") the subject or self out of its unconsciousness and into an awareness of itself as a free individual.\n\nFichte's account proceeds from the general principle that the I (\"das Ich\") must posit itself as an individual in order to posit (\"setzen\") itself at all, and that in order to posit itself as an individual it must recognize itself as it were to a calling or summons (\"Aufforderung\") by other free individual(s) — called, moreover, to limit its own freedom out of respect for the freedom of the other. The same condition applied and applies, of course, to the other(s) in its development. Hence, mutual recognition (\"gegenseitig anerkennen\") of rational individuals turns out to be a condition necessary for the individual I in general. This argument for intersubjectivity is central to the conception of selfhood developed in the \"Foundations of the Science of Knowledge\" (\"Grundlage der gesamten Wissenschaftslehre\", 1794/1795). In Fichte's view consciousness of the self depends upon resistance or a check by something that is understood as not part of the self yet is not immediately ascribable to a particular sensory perception. In his later 1796–1799 lectures (his \"Nova methodo\"), Fichte incorporated it into his revised presentation of the very foundations of his system, where the summons takes its place alongside original feeling, which takes the place of the earlier \"Anstoss\" (see below) as both a limit upon the absolute freedom of the I and a condition for the positing of the same.\n\nThe I itself posits this situation for itself. To posit does not mean to 'create' the objects of consciousness. The principle in question simply states that the essence of an I lies in the assertion of one's own self-identity, i.e., that consciousness presupposes self-consciousness. Such immediate self-identity, however, cannot be understood as a psychological fact, nor as an act or accident of some previously existing substance or being. It is an action of the I, but one that is identical with the very existence of this same I. In Fichte's technical terminology, the original unity of self-consciousness is to be understood both as an action and as the product of the same I, as a \"fact and/or act\" (\"Thathandlung\"; Modern German: \"Tathandlung\"), a unity that is presupposed by and contained within every fact and every act of empirical consciousness, although it never appears as such therein.\n\nThe I must posit itself in order to be an I at all; but it can posit itself only insofar as it posits itself as limited. Moreover, it cannot even posit for itself its own limitations, in the sense of producing or creating these limits. The finite I cannot be the ground of its own passivity. Instead, for Fichte, if the I is to posit itself off at all, it must simply discover itself to be limited, a discovery that Fichte characterizes as an \"impulse,\" \"repulse,\" or \"resistance\" (\"Anstoss\"; Modern German: \"Anstoß\") to the free practical activity of the I. Such an original limitation of the I is, however, a limit for the I only insofar as the I posits it out as a limit. The I does this, according to Fichte's analysis, by positing its own limitation, first, as only a feeling, then as a sensation, then as an intuition of a thing, and finally as a summons of another person. The \"Anstoss\" thus provides the essential impetus that first posits in motion the entire complex train of activities that finally result in our conscious experience both of ourselves and others as empirical individuals and of the world around us.\n\nThough \"Anstoss\" plays a similar role as the thing in itself does in Kantian philosophy, unlike Kant, Fichte's \"Anstoss\" is not something foreign to the I. Instead, it denotes the original encounter of the I with its own finitude. Rather than claim that the not-I (\"das Nicht-Ich\") is the cause or ground of the \"Anstoss\", Fichte argues that not-I is posited by the I precisely in order to explain to itself the \"Anstoss\", that is, in order to become conscious of \"Anstoss\".\n\nThough the \"Wissenschaftslehre\" demonstrates that such an \"Anstoss\" must occur if self-consciousness is to come about, it is quite unable to deduce or to explain the actual occurrence of such an \"Anstoss\" — except as a condition for the possibility of consciousness. Accordingly, there are strict limits to what can be expected from any a priori deduction of experience, and this limitation, for Fichte, equally applies to Kant's transcendental philosophy.\n\nAccording to Fichte, transcendental philosophy can explain that the world must have space, time, and causality, but it can never explain why objects have the particular sensible properties they happen to have or why I am this determinate individual rather than another. This is something that the I simply has to discover at the same time that it discovers its own freedom, and indeed, as a condition for the latter.\n\nDieter Henrich (1966) proposed that Fichte was able to move beyond a \"reflective theory of consciousness\". According to Fichte, the self must already have some prior acquaintance with itself, independent of the act of reflection (\"no object comes to consciousness except under the condition that I am aware of myself, the conscious subject [\"jedes Object kommt zum Bewusstseyn lediglich unter der Bedingung, dass ich auch meiner selbst, des bewusstseyenden Subjects mir bewusst sey\"]\"). This idea is what Henrich called Fichte's original insight.\n\nFichte also developed a theory of the state based on the idea of self-sufficiency. In his mind, the state should control international relations, the value of money, and remain an autarky. Because of this necessity to have relations with other rational beings in order to achieve consciousness, Fichte writes that there must be a 'relation of right', in which there is a mutual recognition of rationality by both parties.\n\nBetween December 1807 and March 1808, Fichte gave a series of lectures concerning the \"German nation\" and its culture and language, projecting the kind of national education he hoped would raise it from the humiliation of its defeat at the hands of the French. Having been a supporter of Revolutionary France, Fichte became disenchanted by 1804 as Napoleon's armies advanced through Europe, occupying German territories, stripping them of their raw materials and subjugating them to foreign rule. Consequently, Fichte came to believe Germany would be responsible to carry the virtues of the French Revolution into the future. Furthermore, his nationalism was not aroused by Prussian military defeat and humiliation, for these had not yet occurred, but resulted from devotion to his own humanitarian philosophy. Through disappointment in the French he turned to the German nation as the instrument of fulfilling it. These lectures, entitled the \"Addresses to the German Nation\", coincided with a period of reform in the Prussian government, under the chancellorship of Baron vom Stein. The \"Addresses\" display Fichte's interest during that period in language and culture as vehicles of human spiritual development. Fichte built upon the earlier ideas of Johann Gottfried Herder and attempted to unite them with his more systematic approach. The aim of the German nation, according to Fichte, was to \"found an empire of spirit and reason, and to annihilate completely the crude physical force that rules of the world.\" Like Herder's German nationalism, Fichte's was wholly cultural, and grounded in the aesthetic, literary, and moral.\n\nThe nationalism propounded by Fichte in the \"Addresses\" would be appealed to over a century later by the Nazi Party in Germany, which sought in Fichte a forerunner to its own nationalist ideology. Like Nietzsche, the association of Fichte with the Nazi regime came to colour readings of Fichte's German nationalism in the post-war period. This reading of Fichte was often bolstered through reference to an unpublished letter from 1793, \"Contributions to the Correction of the Public's Judgment concerning the French Revolution\", wherein Fichte expressed anti-semitic sentiments, such as arguing against extending civil rights to Jews and calling them a \"state within a state\" that could \"undermine\" the German nation.<ref name=\"Gesamtausgabe I/1 pp. 292\">\"Gesamtausgabe\", I/1, pp. 292–293</ref> However, attached to the letter is a footnote in which Fichte provides an impassioned plea for permitting Jews to practice their religion without hindrance. Furthermore, the final act of Fichte's academic career was to resign as rector of Humboldt University in protest when his colleagues refused to punish the harassment of Jewish students. While recent scholarship has sought to dissociate Fichte's writings on nationalism with his adoption by the Nazi Party, the association continues to blight his legacy, although Fichte, as if to exclude all ground of doubt, clearly and distinctly prohibits — in his reworked version of \"The Science of Ethics as Based on the Science of Knowledge\" (see § Final period in Berlin) — genocide and other crimes against humanity:\n\nFichte argued that \"active citizenship, civic freedom and even property rights should be withheld from women, whose calling was to subject themselves utterly to the authority of their fathers and husbands.\"\n\nFichte gave a wide range of public and private lectures in Berlin from the last decade of his life. These form some of his best known work, and are the basis of a revived German-speaking scholarly interest in his work.\n\nThe lectures include two works from 1806. In \"The Characteristics of the Present Age\" (\"Die Grundzüge des gegenwärtigen Zeitalters\"), Fichte outlines his theory of different historical and cultural epochs. His mystic work \"The Way Towards the Blessed Life\" (\"Die Anweisung zum seligen Leben oder auch die Religionslehre\") gave his fullest thoughts on religion. In 1808 he gave a series of speeches in French-occupied Berlin, \"Addresses to the German Nation\".\n\nIn 1810, the new University of Berlin was set up, designed along lines put forward by Wilhelm von Humboldt. Fichte was made its rector and also the first Chair of Philosophy. This was in part because of educational themes in the \"Addresses\", and in part because of his earlier work at Jena University.\n\nFichte lectured on further versions of his \"Wissenschaftslehre\". Of these, he only published a brief work from 1810, \"The Science of Knowledge in its General Outline\" (\"Die Wissenschaftslehre, in ihrem allgemeinen Umrisse dargestellt\"; also translated as \"Outline of the Doctrine of Knowledge\"). His son published some of these thirty years after his death.\n\nMost only became public in the last decades of the twentieth century, in his collected works. This included reworked versions of the \"Doctrine of Science\" (\"Wissenschaftslehre\", 1810–1813), \"The Science of Rights\" (\"Das System der Rechtslehre\", 1812), and \"The Science of Ethics as Based on the Science of Knowledge\" (\"Das System der Sittenlehre nach den Principien der Wissenschaftslehre\", 1812; 1st ed. 1798).\n\n\n\n\nThe new standard edition of Fichte's works in German, which supersedes all previous editions, is the \"Gesamtausgabe\" (\"Collected Works\" or \"Complete Edition\", commonly abbreviated as \"GA\"), prepared by the Bavarian Academy of Sciences: \"Gesamtausgabe der Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften\", 42 volumes, edited by , Hans Gliwitzky, Erich Fuchs and Peter Schneider, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt: Frommann-Holzboog, 1962–2012.\n\nIt is organized into four parts:\n\nFichte's works are quoted and cited from \"GA\", followed by a combination of Roman and Arabic numbers, indicating the series and volume, respectively, and the page number(s).\n\nAnother edition is \"Johann Gottlieb Fichtes sämmtliche Werke\" (abbrev. \"SW\"), ed. I. H. Fichte. Berlin: de Gruyter, 1971.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19058785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19058785", "title": "John Dewey bibliography", "text": "John Dewey bibliography\n\nThis list of publications by John Dewey complements the partial list at the John Dewey article.\n\nDewey (1859–1952) was an American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer, whose thoughts and ideas have been greatly influential in the United States and around the world.\n\nHe was a prolific writer and, over a career spanning some 65 years, his output was extraordinary, covering a wide range of topics. \n\nThe full collection of his writings, making up 37 volumes, has been edited by JoAnn Boydston for the Southern Illinois University Press (Carbondale, Illinois), as follows: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37973", "title": "John Maynard Keynes", "text": "John Maynard Keynes\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946), was a British economist whose ideas fundamentally changed the theory and practice of macroeconomics and the economic policies of governments. He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles, and was one of the most influential economists of the 20th century. Widely considered the founder of modern macroeconomics, his ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as Keynesian economics, and its various offshoots.\n\nDuring the Great Depression of the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, challenging the ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands. He instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment. Keynes advocated the use of fiscal and monetary policies to mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions. Keynes's magnum opus, \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\", was published in 1936.\n\nThe leading Western economies adopted Keynes's policy recommendations before the outbreak of World War II, and in the two decades following Keynes's death in 1946, almost all capitalist governments had done so. Keynes's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of the stagflation that plagued the Anglo-American economies during that decade, and partly because of criticism of Keynesian policies by Milton Friedman and other monetarists. He and other economists had disputed the ability of government to regulate the business cycle favourably with fiscal policy.\n\nThe advent of the global financial crisis of 2007–2008 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought. Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by President Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.\n\nWhen \"Time\" magazine included Keynes among its in 1999, it said that \"his radical idea that governments should spend money they don't have may have saved capitalism.\" \"The Economist\" has described Keynes as \"Britain's most famous 20th-century economist.\" In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the Bank of England, and a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals.\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes was born in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England, to an upper-middle-class family. His father, John Neville Keynes, was an economist and a lecturer in moral sciences at the University of Cambridge and his mother Florence Ada Keynes a local social reformer. Keynes was the first born, and was followed by two more children – Margaret Neville Keynes in 1885 and Geoffrey Keynes in 1887. Geoffrey became a surgeon and Margaret married the Nobel Prize-winning physiologist Archibald Hill.\n\nAccording to the economic historian and biographer Robert Skidelsky, Keynes's parents were loving and attentive. They remained in the same house throughout their lives, where the children were always welcome to return. Keynes would receive considerable support from his father, including expert coaching to help him pass his scholarship exams and financial help both as a young man and when his assets were nearly wiped out at the onset of Great Depression in 1929. Keynes's mother made her children's interests her own, and according to Skidelsky, \"because she could grow up with her children, they never outgrew home\".\n\nIn January 1889 at the age of five and a half, Keynes started at the kindergarten of the Perse School for Girls for five mornings a week. He quickly showed a talent for arithmetic, but his health was poor leading to several long absences. He was tutored at home by a governess, Beatrice Mackintosh, and his mother. In January 1892, at eight and a half, he started as a day pupil at St Faith's preparatory school. By 1894, Keynes was top of his class and excelling at mathematics. In 1896, St Faith's headmaster, Ralph Goodchild, wrote that Keynes was \"head and shoulders above all the other boys in the school\" and was confident that Keynes could get a scholarship to Eton.\n\nIn 1897, Keynes won a scholarship to Eton College, where he displayed talent in a wide range of subjects, particularly mathematics, classics and history. At Eton, Keynes experienced the first \"love of his life\" in Dan Macmillan, older brother of the future Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. Despite his middle-class background, Keynes mixed easily with upper-class pupils. \n\nIn 1902 Keynes left Eton for King's College, Cambridge, after receiving a scholarship for this also to read mathematics. Alfred Marshall begged Keynes to become an economist,\nalthough Keynes's own inclinations drew him towards philosophy – especially the ethical system of G. E. Moore. Keynes joined the Pitt Club and was an active member of the semi-secretive Cambridge Apostles society, a debating club largely reserved for the brightest students. Like many members, Keynes retained a bond to the club after graduating and continued to attend occasional meetings throughout his life. Before leaving Cambridge, Keynes became the President of the Cambridge Union Society and Cambridge University Liberal Club. He was said to be an atheist.\n\nIn May 1904, he received a first class BA in mathematics. Aside from a few months spent on holidays with family and friends, Keynes continued to involve himself with the university over the next two years. He took part in debates, further studied philosophy and attended economics lectures informally as a graduate student for one term, which constituted his only formal education in the subject. He took civil service exams in 1906.\n\nThe economist Harry Johnson wrote that the optimism imparted by Keynes's early life is a key to understanding his later thinking.\nKeynes was always confident he could find a solution to whatever problem he turned his attention to, and retained a lasting faith in the ability of government officials to do good.\nKeynes's optimism was also cultural, in two senses: he was of the last generation raised by an empire still at the height of its power, and was also of the last generation who felt entitled to govern by culture, rather than by expertise. According to Skidelsky, the sense of cultural unity current in Britain from the 19th century to the end of World War I provided a framework with which the well-educated could set various spheres of knowledge in relation to each other and to life, enabling them to confidently draw from different fields when addressing practical problems.\n\nIn October 1906, Keynes's Civil Service career began as a clerk in the India Office. He enjoyed his work at first, but by 1908 had become bored and resigned his position to return to Cambridge and work on probability theory, at first privately funded only by two dons at the university – his father and the economist Arthur Pigou.\n\nBy 1909 Keynes had published his first professional economics article in \"The Economic Journal\", about the effect of a recent global economic downturn on India. He founded the Political Economy Club, a weekly discussion group. Also in 1909, Keynes accepted a lectureship in economics funded personally by Alfred Marshall. Keynes's earnings rose further as he began to take on pupils for private tuition.\n\nIn 1911 Keynes was made editor of \"The Economic Journal\". By 1913 he had published his first book, \"Indian Currency and Finance\". He was then appointed to the Royal Commission on Indian Currency and Finance – the same topic as his book – where Keynes showed considerable talent at applying economic theory to practical problems. His written work was published under the name \"J M Keynes\", though to his family and friends he was known as Maynard. (His father, John Neville Keynes, was also always known by his middle name).\n\nThe British Government called on Keynes's expertise during the First World War. While he did not formally re-join the civil service in 1914, Keynes travelled to London at the government's request a few days before hostilities started. Bankers had been pushing for the suspension of specie payments – the convertibility of banknotes into gold – but with Keynes's help the Chancellor of the Exchequer (then Lloyd George) was persuaded that this would be a bad idea, as it would hurt the future reputation of the city if payments were suspended before it was absolutely necessary.\n\nIn January 1915, Keynes took up an official government position at the Treasury. Among his responsibilities were the design of terms of credit between Britain and its continental allies during the war, and the acquisition of scarce currencies. According to economist Robert Lekachman, Keynes's \"nerve and mastery became legendary\" because of his performance of these duties, as in the case where he managed to assemble – with difficulty – a small supply of Spanish pesetas.\n\nThe secretary of the Treasury was delighted to hear Keynes had amassed enough to provide a temporary solution for the British Government. But Keynes did not hand the pesetas over, choosing instead to sell them all to break the market: his boldness paid off, as pesetas then became much less scarce and expensive.\n\nOn the introduction of military conscription in 1916 he applied for exemption as a conscientious objector, which was effectively granted conditional upon continuing his government work.\n\nIn the 1917 King's Birthday Honours, Keynes was appointed Companion of the Order of the Bath for his wartime work, and his success led to the appointment that would have a huge effect on Keynes's life and career; Keynes was appointed financial representative for the Treasury to the 1919 Versailles peace conference. He was also appointed Officer of the Belgian Order of Leopold.\n\nKeynes's experience at Versailles was influential in shaping his future outlook, yet it was not a successful one for him. Keynes's main interest had been in trying to prevent Germany's compensation payments being set so high it would traumatise innocent German people, damage the nation's ability to pay and sharply limit her ability to buy exports from other countries – thus hurting not just Germany's own economy but that of the wider world.\n\nUnfortunately for Keynes, conservative powers in the coalition that emerged from the 1918 coupon election were able to ensure that both Keynes himself and the Treasury were largely excluded from formal high-level talks concerning reparations. Their place was taken by the Heavenly Twins – the judge Lord Sumner and the banker Lord Cunliffe whose nickname derived from the \"astronomically\" high war compensation they wanted to demand from Germany. Keynes was forced to try to exert influence mostly from behind the scenes.\n\nThe three principal players at Versailles were Britain's Lloyd George, France's Clemenceau and America's President Wilson.\nIt was only Lloyd George to whom Keynes had much direct access; until the 1918 election he had some sympathy with Keynes's view but while campaigning had found his speeches were only well received by the public if he promised to harshly punish Germany, and had therefore committed his delegation to extracting high payments.\n\nLloyd George did however win some loyalty from Keynes with his actions at the Paris conference by intervening against the French to ensure the dispatch of much-needed food supplies to German civilians. Clemenceau also pushed for substantial reparations, though not as high as those proposed by the British, while on security grounds, France argued for an even more severe settlement than Britain.\n\nWilson initially favoured relatively lenient treatment of Germany – he feared too harsh conditions could foment the rise of extremism, and wanted Germany to be left sufficient capital to pay for imports. To Keynes's dismay, Lloyd George and Clemenceau were able to pressure Wilson to agree to include pensions in the reparations bill.\n\nTowards the end of the conference, Keynes came up with a plan that he argued would not only help Germany and other impoverished central European powers but also be good for the world economy as a whole. It involved the radical writing down of war debts, which would have had the possible effect of increasing international trade all round, but at the same time thrown the entire cost of European reconstruction on the United States.\n\nLloyd George agreed it might be acceptable to the British electorate. However, America was against the plan; the US was then the largest creditor, and by this time Wilson had started to believe in the merits of a harsh peace and thought that his country had already made excessive sacrifices. Hence despite his best efforts, the end result of the conference was a treaty which disgusted Keynes both on moral and economic grounds, and led to his resignation from the Treasury.\n\nIn June 1919 he turned down an offer to become chairman of the British Bank of Northern Commerce, a job that promised a salary of £2000 in return for a morning per week of work.\n\nKeynes's analysis on the predicted damaging effects of the treaty appeared in the highly influential book, \"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\", published in 1919. This work has been described as Keynes's best book, where he was able to bring all his gifts to bear – his passion as well as his skill as an economist. In addition to economic analysis, the book contained pleas to the reader's sense of compassion:\n\nAlso present was striking imagery such as \"year by year Germany must be kept impoverished and her children starved and crippled\" along with bold predictions which were later justified by events:\n\nKeynes's followers assert that his predictions of disaster were borne out when the German economy suffered the hyperinflation of 1923, and again by the collapse of the Weimar Republic and the outbreak of the Second World War. However the historian Ruth Henig claims that \"most historians of the Paris peace conference now take the view that, in economic terms, the treaty was not unduly harsh on Germany and that, while obligations and damages were inevitably much stressed in the debates at Paris to satisfy electors reading the daily newspapers, the intention was quietly to give Germany substantial help towards paying her bills, and to meet many of the German objections by amendments to the way the reparations schedule was in practice carried out\".\n\nOnly a small fraction of reparations were ever paid. In fact, the historian Stephen Schuker demonstrates in \"American 'Reparations' to Germany, 1919–33\", that the capital inflow from American loans substantially exceeded German outpayments so that, on a net basis, Germany received support equal to four times the amount of the post-Second World War Marshall Plan.\n\nSchuker also shows that, in the years after Versailles, Keynes became an informal reparations adviser to the German government, wrote one of the major German reparation notes, and actually supported the hyperinflation on political grounds. Nevertheless, \"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\" gained Keynes international fame, even though it also caused him to be regarded as anti-establishment – it was not until after the outbreak of the Second World War that Keynes was offered a directorship of a major British Bank, or an acceptable offer to return to government with a formal job. However, Keynes was still able to influence government policy making through his network of contacts, his published works and by serving on government committees; this included attending high-level policy meetings as a consultant.\n\nKeynes had completed his \"A Treatise on Probability\" before the war, but published it in 1921. The work was a notable contribution to the philosophical and mathematical underpinnings of probability theory, championing the important view that \"probabilities\" were no more or less than truth values intermediate between simple truth and falsity. Keynes developed the first upper-lower probabilistic interval approach to probability in chapters 15 and 17 of this book, as well as having developed the first decision weight approach with his conventional coefficient of risk and weight, \"c\", in chapter 26. In addition to his academic work, the 1920s saw Keynes active as a journalist selling his work internationally and working in London as a financial consultant. In 1924 Keynes wrote an obituary for his former tutor\nAlfred Marshall which Joseph Schumpeter called \"the most brilliant life of a man of science I have ever read.\"\nMarshall's widow was \"entranced\" by the memorial, while Lytton Strachey rated it as one of Keynes's \"best works\".\n\nIn 1922 Keynes continued to advocate reduction of German reparations with \"A Revision of the Treaty\". He attacked the post-World War I deflation policies with \"A Tract on Monetary Reform\" in 1923 – a trenchant argument that countries should target stability of domestic prices, avoiding deflation even at the cost of allowing their currency to depreciate. Britain suffered from high unemployment through most of the 1920s, leading Keynes to recommend the depreciation of sterling to boost jobs by making British exports more affordable. From 1924 he was also advocating a fiscal response, where the government could create jobs by spending on public works. During the 1920s Keynes's pro stimulus views had only limited effect on policy makers and mainstream academic opinion – according to Hyman Minsky one reason was that at this time his theoretical justification was \"muddled\". The \"Tract\" had also called for an end to the gold standard. Keynes advised it was no longer a net benefit for countries such as Britain to participate in the gold standard, as it ran counter to the need for domestic policy autonomy. It could force countries to pursue deflationary policies at exactly the time when expansionary measures were called for to address rising unemployment. The Treasury and Bank of England were still in favour of the gold standard and in 1925 they were able to convince the then Chancellor Winston Churchill to re-establish it, which had a depressing effect on British industry. Keynes responded by writing \"The Economic Consequences of Mr. Churchill\" and continued to argue against the gold standard until Britain finally abandoned it in 1931.\n\nKeynes had begun a theoretical work to examine the relationship between unemployment, money and prices back in the 1920s. The work, \"Treatise on Money\", was published in 1930 in two volumes. A central idea of the work was that if the amount of money being saved exceeds the amount being invested – which can happen if interest rates are too high – then unemployment will rise. This is in part a result of people not wanting to spend too high a proportion of what employers pay out, making it difficult, in aggregate, for employers to make a profit. Another key theme of the book is the unreliability of financial indices for representing an accurate – or indeed meaningful – indication of general shifts in purchasing power of currencies over time. In particular he criticised the justification of Britain's return to the gold standard in 1925 at pre-war valuation by reference to the wholesale price index. He argued that the index understated the effects of changes in the costs of services and of labour. In 1927 he wrote, \"We will not have any more crashes in our time.\"\n\nKeynes was deeply critical of the British government's austerity measures during the Great Depression. He believed that budget deficits were a good thing, a product of recessions. He wrote, \"For Government borrowing of one kind or another is nature's remedy, so to speak, for preventing business losses from being, in so severe a slump as the present one, so great as to bring production altogether to a standstill.\"\n\nAt the height of the Great Depression, in 1933, Keynes published \"The Means to Prosperity\", which contained specific policy recommendations for tackling unemployment in a global recession, chiefly counter-cyclical public spending. \"The Means to Prosperity\" contains one of the first mentions of the multiplier effect. While it was addressed chiefly to the British Government, it also contained advice for other nations affected by the global recession. A copy was sent to the newly elected President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other world leaders. The work was taken seriously by both the American and British governments, and according to Robert Skidelsky, helped pave the way for the later acceptance of Keynesian ideas, though it had little immediate practical influence. In the 1933 London Economic Conference opinions remained too diverse for a unified course of action to be agreed upon.\n\nKeynesian-like policies were adopted by Sweden and Germany, but Sweden was seen as too small to command much attention, and Keynes was deliberately silent about the as he was dismayed by their imperialist ambitions and their treatment of Jews. Apart from Great Britain, Keynes's attention was primarily focused on the United States. In 1931, he received considerable support for his views on counter-cyclical public spending in Chicago, then America's foremost centre for economic views alternative to the mainstream. However, orthodox economic opinion remained generally hostile regarding fiscal intervention to mitigate the depression, until just before the outbreak of war. In late 1933 Keynes was persuaded by Felix Frankfurter to address President Roosevelt directly, which he did by letters and face to face in 1934, after which the two men spoke highly of each other. However, according to Skidelsky, the consensus is that Keynes's efforts only began to have a more than marginal influence on US economic policy after 1939.\n\nKeynes's \"magnum opus\", \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\" was published in 1936. It was researched and indexed by one of Keynes's favourite students, later the economist David Bensusan-Butt. The work served as a theoretical justification for the interventionist policies Keynes favoured for tackling a recession. The \"General Theory\" challenged the earlier neoclassical economic paradigm, which had held that provided it was unfettered by government interference, the market would naturally establish full employment equilibrium. In doing so Keynes was partly setting himself against his former teachers Marshall and Pigou. Keynes believed the classical theory was a \"special case\" that applied only to the particular conditions present in the 19th century, his own theory being the general one. Classical economists had believed in Say's law, which, simply put, states that \"supply creates its own demand\", and that in a free market workers would always be willing to lower their wages to a level where employers could profitably offer them jobs. An innovation from Keynes was the concept of price stickiness – the recognition that in reality workers often refuse to lower their wage demands even in cases where a classical economist might argue it is rational for them to do so. Due in part to price stickiness, it was established that the interaction of \"aggregate demand\" and \"aggregate supply\" may lead to stable unemployment equilibria – and in those cases, it is the state, not the market, that economies must depend on for their salvation.\n\nThe \"General Theory\" argues that demand, not supply, is the key variable governing the overall level of economic activity. Aggregate demand, which equals total un-hoarded income in a society, is defined by the sum of consumption and investment. In a state of unemployment and unused production capacity, one can \"only\" enhance employment and total income by \"first\" increasing expenditures for either consumption or investment. Without government intervention to increase expenditure, an economy can remain trapped in a low employment equilibrium – the demonstration of this possibility has been described as the revolutionary formal achievement of the work.\nThe book advocated activist economic policy by government to stimulate demand in times of high unemployment, for example by spending on public works. \"Let us be up and doing, using our idle resources to increase our wealth,\" he wrote in 1928. \"With men and plants unemployed, it is ridiculous to say that we cannot afford these new developments. It is precisely with these plants and these men that we shall afford them.\"\n\nThe \"General Theory\" is often viewed as the foundation of modern macroeconomics. Few senior American economists agreed with Keynes through most of the 1930s.\nYet his ideas were soon to achieve widespread acceptance, with eminent American professors such as Alvin Hansen agreeing with the \"General Theory\" before the outbreak of World War II.\n\nKeynes himself had only limited participation in the theoretical debates that followed the publication of the \"General Theory\" as he suffered a heart attack in 1937, requiring him to take long periods of rest. Among others, Hyman Minsky and Post-Keynesian economists have argued that as result, Keynes's ideas were diluted by those keen to compromise with classical economists or to render his concepts with mathematical models like the IS–LM model (which, they argue, distort Keynes's ideas). Keynes began to recover in 1939, but for the rest of his life his professional energies were largely directed towards the practical side of economics – the problems of ensuring optimum allocation of resources for the war efforts, post-war negotiations with America, and the new international financial order that was presented at the Bretton Woods Conference.\n\nIn the \"General Theory\" and later, Keynes responded to the socialists and left-wing liberals who argued, especially during the Great Depression of the 1930s, that capitalism caused war. He argued that if capitalism were managed domestically and internationally (with coordinated international Keynesian policies, an international monetary system that didn't pit the interests of countries against each other, and a high degree of freedom of trade), then this system of managed capitalism could promote peace rather than conflict between countries. His plans during World War II for post-war international economic institutions and policies (which contributed to the creation at Bretton Woods of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and later to the creation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and eventually the World Trade Organization) were aimed to give effect to this vision.\n\nAlthough Keynes has been widely criticised – especially by members of the Chicago school of economics – for advocating irresponsible government spending financed by borrowing, in fact he was a firm believer in balanced budgets and regarded the proposals for programs of public works during the Great Depression as an exceptional measure to meet the needs of exceptional circumstances.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Keynes argued in \"How to Pay for the War\", published in 1940, that the war effort should be largely financed by higher taxation and especially by compulsory saving (essentially workers lending money to the government), rather than deficit spending, in order to avoid inflation. Compulsory saving would act to dampen domestic demand, assist in channelling additional output towards the war efforts, would be fairer than punitive taxation and would have the advantage of helping to avoid a post war slump by boosting demand once workers were allowed to withdraw their savings. In September 1941 he was proposed to fill a vacancy in the Court of Directors of the Bank of England, and subsequently carried out a full term from the following April. In June 1942, Keynes was rewarded for his service with a hereditary peerage in the King's Birthday Honours. On 7 July his title was gazetted as \"Baron Keynes, of Tilton, in the County of Sussex\" and he took his seat in the House of Lords on the Liberal Party benches.\n\nAs the Allied victory began to look certain, Keynes was heavily involved, as leader of the British delegation and chairman of the World Bank commission, in the mid-1944 negotiations that established the Bretton Woods system. The Keynes-plan, concerning an international clearing-union, argued for a radical system for the management of currencies. He proposed the creation of a common world unit of currency, the bancor, and new global institutions – a world central bank and the International Clearing Union. Keynes envisaged these institutions managing an international trade and payments system with strong incentives for countries to avoid substantial trade deficits or surpluses. The USA's greater negotiating strength, however, meant that the final outcomes accorded more closely to the more conservative plans of Harry Dexter White. According to US economist J. Bradford DeLong, on almost every point where he was overruled by the Americans, Keynes was later proved correct by events.\n\nThe two new institutions, later known as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), were founded as a compromise that primarily reflected the American vision. There would be no incentives for states to avoid a large trade surplus; instead, the burden for correcting a trade imbalance would continue to fall only on the deficit countries, which Keynes had argued were least able to address the problem without inflicting economic hardship on their populations. Yet, Keynes was still pleased when accepting the final agreement, saying that if the institutions stayed true to their founding principles, \"the brotherhood of man will have become more than a phrase.\"\n\nAfter the war, Keynes continued to represent the United Kingdom in international negotiations despite his deteriorating health. He succeeded in obtaining preferential terms from the United States for new and outstanding debts to facilitate the rebuilding of the British economy.\n\nJust before his death in 1946, Keynes told Henry Clay, a professor of social economics and advisor to the Bank of England, of his hopes that Adam Smith's \"invisible hand\" could help Britain out of the economic hole it was in: \"I find myself more and more relying for a solution of our problems on the invisible hand which I tried to eject from economic thinking twenty years ago.\"\n\nFrom the end of the Great Depression to the mid-1970s, Keynes provided the main inspiration for economic policy makers in Europe, America and much of the rest of the world. While economists and policy makers had become increasingly won over to Keynes's way of thinking in the mid and late 1930s, it was only after the outbreak of World War II that governments started to borrow money for spending on a scale sufficient to eliminate unemployment. According to the economist John Kenneth Galbraith (then a US government official charged with controlling inflation), in the rebound of the economy from wartime spending, \"one could not have had a better demonstration of the Keynesian ideas.\"\n\nThe Keynesian Revolution was associated with the rise of modern liberalism in the West during the post-war period. Keynesian ideas became so popular that some scholars point to Keynes as representing the ideals of modern liberalism, as Adam Smith represented the ideals of classical liberalism. After the war, Winston Churchill attempted to check the rise of Keynesian policy-making in the United Kingdom and used rhetoric critical of the mixed economy in his 1945 election campaign. Despite his popularity as a war hero, Churchill suffered a landslide defeat to Clement Attlee whose government's economic policy continued to be influenced by Keynes's ideas.\n\nIn the late 1930s and 1940s, economists (notably John Hicks, Franco Modigliani, and Paul Samuelson) attempted to interpret and formalise Keynes's writings in terms of formal mathematical models. In what had become known as the neoclassical synthesis, they combined Keynesian analysis with neoclassical economics to produce neo-Keynesian economics, which came to dominate mainstream macroeconomic thought for the next 40 years.\n\nBy the 1950s, Keynesian policies were adopted by almost the entire developed world and similar measures for a mixed economy were used by many developing nations. By then, Keynes's views on the economy had become mainstream in the world's universities. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, the developed and emerging free capitalist economies enjoyed exceptionally high growth and low unemployment. Professor Gordon Fletcher has written that the 1950s and 1960s, when Keynes's influence was at its peak, appear in retrospect as a golden age of capitalism.\n\nIn late 1965 \"Time\" magazine ran a cover article with a title comment from Milton Friedman (later echoed by U.S. President Richard Nixon), \"We are all Keynesians now\". The article described the exceptionally favourable economic conditions then prevailing, and reported that \"Washington's economic managers scaled these heights by their adherence to Keynes's central theme: the modern capitalist economy does not automatically work at top efficiency, but can be raised to that level by the intervention and influence of the government.\" The article also states that Keynes was one of the three most important economists who ever lived, and that his \"General Theory\" was more influential than the \"magna opera\" of other famous economists, like Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\".\n\nKeynesian economics were officially discarded by the British Government in 1979, but forces had begun to gather against Keynes's ideas over 30 years earlier. Friedrich Hayek had formed the Mont Pelerin Society in 1947, with the explicit intention of nurturing intellectual currents to one day displace Keynesianism and other similar influences. Its members included the Austrian School economist Ludwig von Mises along with the then young Milton Friedman. Initially the society had little impact on the wider world – according to Hayek it was as if Keynes had been raised to sainthood after his death and that people refused to allow his work to be questioned.\nFriedman however began to emerge as a formidable critic of Keynesian economics from the mid-1950s, and especially after his 1963 publication of \"A Monetary History of the United States\".\n\nOn the practical side of economic life, \"big government\" had appeared to be firmly entrenched in the 1950s, but the balance began to shift towards the power of private interests in the 1960s. Keynes had written against the folly of allowing \"decadent and selfish\" speculators and financiers the kind of influence they had enjoyed after World War I. For two decades after World War II the public opinion was strongly against private speculators, the disparaging label \"Gnomes of Zürich\" being typical of how they were described during this period. International speculation was severely restricted by the capital controls in place after Bretton Woods. According to the journalists Larry Elliott and Dan Atkinson, 1968 was the pivotal year when power shifted in favour of private agents such as currency speculators. As the key 1968 event Elliott and Atkinson picked out America's suspension of the conversion of the dollar into gold except on request of foreign governments, which they identified as the beginning of the breakdown of the Bretton Woods system.\n\nCriticisms of Keynes's ideas had begun to gain significant acceptance by the early 1970s, as they were then able to make a credible case that Keynesian models no longer reflected economic reality. Keynes himself included few formulas and no explicit mathematical models in his \"General Theory\". For economists such as Hyman Minsky, Keynes's limited use of mathematics was partly the result of his scepticism about whether phenomena as inherently uncertain as economic activity could ever be adequately captured by mathematical models. Nevertheless, many models were developed by Keynesian economists, with a famous example being the Phillips curve which predicted an inverse relationship between unemployment and inflation. It implied that unemployment could be reduced by government stimulus with a calculable cost to inflation. In 1968, Milton Friedman published a paper arguing that the fixed relationship implied by the Philips curve did not exist.\nFriedman suggested that sustained Keynesian policies could lead to both unemployment and inflation rising at once – a phenomenon that soon became known as stagflation. In the early 1970s stagflation appeared in both the US and Britain just as Friedman had predicted, with economic conditions deteriorating further after the 1973 oil crisis. Aided by the prestige gained from his successful forecast, Friedman led increasingly successful criticisms against the Keynesian consensus, convincing not only academics and politicians but also much of the general public with his radio and television broadcasts. The academic credibility of Keynesian economics was further undermined by additional criticism from other monetarists trained in the Chicago school of economics, by the Lucas critique and by criticisms from Hayek's Austrian School. So successful were these criticisms that by 1980 Robert Lucas claimed economists would often take offence if described as Keynesians.\n\nKeynesian principles fared increasingly poorly on the practical side of economics – by 1979 they had been displaced by monetarism as the primary influence on Anglo-American economic policy. However, many officials on both sides of the Atlantic retained a preference for Keynes, and in 1984 the Federal Reserve officially discarded monetarism, after which Keynesian principles made a partial comeback as an influence on policy making.\nNot all academics accepted the criticism against Keynes – Minsky has argued that Keynesian economics had been debased by excessive mixing with neoclassical ideas from the 1950s, and that it was unfortunate that this branch of economics had even continued to be called \"Keynesian\". Writing in \"The American Prospect\", Robert Kuttner argued it was not so much excessive Keynesian activism that caused the economic problems of the 1970s but the breakdown of the Bretton Woods system of capital controls, which allowed capital flight from regulated economies into unregulated economies in a fashion similar to Gresham's law phenomenon (where weak currencies undermine strong currencies).\nHistorian Peter Pugh has stated that a key cause of the economic problems afflicting America in the 1970s was the refusal to raise taxes to finance the Vietnam War, which was against Keynesian advice.\n\nA more typical response was to accept some elements of the criticisms while refining Keynesian economic theories to defend them against arguments that would invalidate the whole Keynesian framework – the resulting body of work largely composing New Keynesian economics. In 1992 Alan Blinder wrote about a \"Keynesian Restoration\", as work based on Keynes's ideas had to some extent become fashionable once again in academia, though in the mainstream it was highly synthesised with monetarism and other neoclassical thinking. In the world of policy making, free market influences broadly sympathetic to monetarism have remained very strong at government level – in powerful normative institutions like the World Bank, the IMF and US Treasury, and in prominent opinion-forming media such as the \"Financial Times\" and \"The Economist\".\n\nThe global financial crisis of 2007–08 led to public skepticism about the free market consensus even from some on the economic right. In March 2008, Martin Wolf, chief economics commentator at the \"Financial Times\", announced the death of the dream of global free-market capitalism. In the same month macroeconomist James K. Galbraith used the 25th Annual Milton Friedman Distinguished Lecture to launch a sweeping attack against the consensus for monetarist economics and argued that Keynesian economics were far more relevant for tackling the emerging crises.\nEconomist Robert J. Shiller had begun advocating robust government intervention to tackle the financial crises, specifically citing Keynes.\nNobel laureate Paul Krugman also actively argued the case for vigorous Keynesian intervention in the economy in his columns for \"The New York Times\".\nOther prominent economic commentators who have argued for Keynesian government intervention to mitigate the financial crisis include George Akerlof, J. Bradford DeLong,\nRobert Reich,\nand Joseph Stiglitz.\nNewspapers and other media have also cited work relating to Keynes by Hyman Minsky, Robert Skidelsky, Donald Markwell\nand Axel Leijonhufvud.\n\nA series of major bailouts were pursued during the financial crisis, starting on 7 September with the announcement that the U.S. Government was to nationalise the two government-sponsored enterprises which oversaw most of the U.S. subprime mortgage market – Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In October, Alistair Darling, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, referred to Keynes as he announced plans for substantial fiscal stimulus to head off the worst effects of recession, in accordance with Keynesian economic thought. Similar policies have been adopted by other governments worldwide.\nThis is in stark contrast to the action imposed on Indonesia during the Asian financial crisis of 1997, when it was forced by the IMF to close 16 banks at the same time, prompting a bank run.\nMuch of the post-crisis discussion reflected Keynes's advocacy of international coordination of fiscal or monetary stimulus, and of international economic institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank, which many had argued should be reformed as a \"new Bretton Woods\", and should have been even before the crises broke out.\nThe IMF and United Nations economists advocated a coordinated international approach to fiscal stimulus.\nDonald Markwell argued that in the absence of such an international approach, there would be a risk of worsening international relations and possibly even world war arising from economic factors similar to those present during the depression of the 1930s.\n\nBy the end of December 2008, the \"Financial Times\" reported that \"the sudden resurgence of Keynesian policy is a stunning reversal of the orthodoxy of the past several decades.\"\nIn December 2008, Paul Krugman released his book \"The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008\", arguing that economic conditions similar to what existed during the earlier part of the 20th century had returned, making Keynesian policy prescriptions more relevant than ever. In February 2009 Robert J. Shiller and George Akerlof published \"\", a book where they argue the current US stimulus package is too small as it does not take into account Keynes's insight on the importance of confidence and expectations in determining the future behaviour of businesspeople and other economic agents.\n\nIn the March 2009 speech entitled \"Reform the International Monetary System\", Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, came out in favour of Keynes's idea of a centrally managed global reserve currency. Zhou argued that it was unfortunate that part of the reason for the Bretton Woods system breaking down was the failure to adopt Keynes's bancor. Zhou proposed a gradual move towards increased use of IMF special drawing rights (SDRs).\nAlthough Zhou's ideas had not been broadly accepted, leaders meeting in April at the 2009 G-20 London summit agreed to allow $250 billion of special drawing rights to be created by the IMF, to be distributed globally. Stimulus plans were credited for contributing to a better than expected economic outlook by both the OECD\nand the IMF, in reports published in June and July 2009. Both organisations warned global leaders that recovery was likely to be slow, so counter recessionary measures ought not be rolled back too early.\n\nWhile the need for stimulus measures was broadly accepted among policy makers, there had been much debate over how to fund the spending. Some leaders and institutions, such as Angela Merkel\nand the European Central Bank,\nexpressed concern over the potential impact on inflation, national debt and the risk that a too large stimulus will create an unsustainable recovery.\n\nAmong professional economists the revival of Keynesian economics has been even more divisive. Although many economists, such as George Akerlof, Paul Krugman, Robert Shiller, and Joseph Stiglitz, supported Keynesian stimulus, others did not believe higher government spending would help the United States economy recover from the Great Recession. Some economists, such as Robert Lucas, questioned the theoretical basis for stimulus packages. Others, like Robert Barro and Gary Becker, say that empirical evidence for beneficial effects from Keynesian stimulus does not exist. However, there is a growing academic literature that shows that fiscal expansion helps an economy grow in the near term, and that certain types of fiscal stimulus are particularly effective.\n\nKeynes's economic thinking only began to achieve close to universal acceptance in the last few years of his life. On a personal level, Keynes's charm was such that he was generally well received wherever he went – even those who found themselves on the wrong side of his occasionally sharp tongue rarely bore a grudge. Keynes's speech at the closing of the Bretton Woods negotiations was received with a lasting standing ovation, rare in international relations, as the delegates acknowledged the scale of his achievements made despite poor health.\n\nAustrian School economist Friedrich Hayek was Keynes's most prominent contemporary critic, with sharply opposing views on the economy. Yet after Keynes's death, he wrote: \"He was the one really great man I ever knew, and for whom I had unbounded admiration. The world will be a very much poorer place without him.\"\n\nLionel Robbins, former head of the economics department at the London School of Economics, who engaged in many heated debates with Keynes in the 1930s, had this to say after observing Keynes in early negotiations with the Americans while drawing up plans for Bretton Woods:\n\nDouglas LePan, an official from the Canadian High Commission, wrote:\n\nBertrand Russell named Keynes one of the most intelligent people he had ever known, commenting:\n\nKeynes's obituary in \"The Times\" included the comment: \"There is the man himself – radiant, brilliant, effervescent, gay, full of impish jokes ... He was a humane man genuinely devoted to the cause of the common good.\"\n\nAs a man of the centre described by some as having the greatest impact of any 20th-century economist, Keynes attracted considerable criticism from both sides of the political spectrum. In the 1920s, Keynes was seen as anti-establishment and was mainly attacked from the right. In the \"red 1930s\", many young economists favoured Marxist views, even in Cambridge, and while Keynes was engaging principally with the right to try to persuade them of the merits of more progressive policy, the most vociferous criticism against him came from the left, who saw him as a supporter of capitalism. From the 1950s and onwards, most of the attacks against Keynes have again been from the right.\n\nIn 1931 Friedrich Hayek extensively critiqued Keynes's 1930 \"Treatise on Money\". After reading Hayek's \"The Road to Serfdom\", Keynes wrote to Hayek \"Morally and philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the whole of it\", but concluded the letter with the recommendation: On the pressing issue of the time, whether deficit spending could lift a country from depression, Keynes replied to Hayek's criticism in the following way:\n\nAsked why Keynes expressed \"moral and philosophical\" agreement with Hayek's \"Road to Serfdom\", Hayek stated:\n\nAccording to some observers, Hayek felt that the post-World War II \"Keynesian orthodoxy\" gave too much power to the state, and that such policies would lead toward socialism.\n\nWhile Milton Friedman described \"The General Theory\" as \"a great book\", he argues that its implicit separation of nominal from real magnitudes is neither possible nor desirable. Macroeconomic policy, Friedman argues, can reliably influence only the nominal. He and other monetarists have consequently argued that Keynesian economics can result in stagflation, the combination of low growth and high inflation that developed economies suffered in the early 1970s. More to Friedman's taste was the \"Tract on Monetary Reform\" (1923), which he regarded as Keynes's best work because of its focus on maintaining domestic price stability.\n\nJoseph Schumpeter was an economist of the same age as Keynes and one of his main rivals. He was among the first reviewers to argue that Keynes's \"General Theory\" was not a general theory, but in fact a special case. He said the work expressed \"the attitude of a decaying civilisation\". After Keynes's death Schumpeter wrote a brief biographical piece \"Keynes the Economist\" – on a personal level he was very positive about Keynes as a man, praising his pleasant nature, courtesy and kindness. He assessed some of Keynes's biographical and editorial work as among the best he'd ever seen. Yet Schumpeter remained critical about Keynes's economics, linking Keynes's childlessness to what Schumpeter saw as an essentially short term view. He considered Keynes to have a kind of unconscious patriotism that caused him to fail to understand the problems of other nations. For Schumpeter \"Practical Keynesianism is a seedling which cannot be transplanted into foreign soil: it dies there and becomes poisonous as it dies.\"\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman was skeptical of Keynesian theorizing: \"Nobody can ever convince me that government can spend a dollar that it's not got,\" he told Leon Keyserling, a Keynesian economist who chaired Truman's Council of Economic Advisers.\n\nKeynes sometimes explained the mass murder that took place during the first years of communist Russia on a racial basis, as part of the \"Russian and Jewish nature\", rather than as a result of the communist rule. After a trip to Russia, he wrote in his \"Short View of Russia\" that there is \"beastliness on the Russian and Jewish natures when, as now, they are allied together\". He also wrote that \"out of the cruelty and stupidity of the Old Russia nothing could ever emerge, but (...) beneath the cruelty and stupidity of the New Russia a speck of the ideal may lie hid\", which together with other comments may be construed as anti-Russian and antisemitic.\n\nSome critics, including Murray Rothbard, have sought to show that Keynes had sympathy with Nazism, and a number of writers described him as antisemitic. Keynes's private letters contain portraits and descriptions, some of which can be characterized as antisemitic, others as philosemitic. Scholars have suggested that these reflect clichés current at the time that he accepted uncritically, rather than any racism. On several occasions Keynes used his influence to help his Jewish friends, most notably when he successfully lobbied for Ludwig Wittgenstein to be allowed residency in the United Kingdom, explicitly in order to rescue him from being deported to Nazi-occupied Austria. Keynes was a supporter of Zionism, serving on committees supporting the cause.\n\nAllegations that he was racist or had totalitarian beliefs have been rejected by Robert Skidelsky and other biographers. Professor Gordon Fletcher wrote that \"the suggestion of a link between Keynes and any support of totalitarianism cannot be sustained\". Once the aggressive tendencies of the Nazis towards Jews and other minorities had become apparent, Keynes made clear his loathing of Nazism. As a lifelong pacifist he had initially favoured peaceful containment of Nazi Germany, yet he began to advocate a forceful resolution while many conservatives were still arguing for appeasement. After the war started he roundly criticised the Left for losing their nerve to confront Hitler:\n\nKeynes has been characterised as being indifferent or even positive about mild inflation. He had indeed expressed a preference for inflation over deflation, saying that if one has to choose between the two evils, it is \"better to disappoint the rentier\" than to inflict pain on working class families. He also supported the German hyperinflation as a way to get free from reparations obligations. However, Keynes was also aware of the dangers of inflation. In \"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\", he wrote: One of Keynes most oft quoted phrases \"In the long term we are all dead\" came from his 1923 response critiquing the long term positive benefits to workers, propounded by some economists, with respect to people who had lost their jobs due to factories that had been closed down.\n\nHe was the principal author of a proposal – the so-called Keynes Plan – for an International Clearing Union. The two governing principles of the plan were that the problem of settling outstanding balances should be solved by 'creating' additional 'international money', and that debtor and creditor should be treated almost alike as disturbers of equilibrium. In the event, though, the plans were rejected, in part because \"American opinion was naturally reluctant to accept the principle of equality of treatment so novel in debtor-creditor relationships\".\nThe new system is not founded on free-trade (liberalisation of foreign trade) but rather on the regulation of international trade, in order to eliminate trade imbalances: the nations with a surplus would have an incentive to reduce it, and in doing so they would automatically clear other nations deficits. He proposed a global bank that would issue its own currency - the bancor - which was exchangeable with national currencies at fixed rates of exchange and would become the unit of account between nations, which means it would be used to measure a country's trade deficit or trade surplus. Every country would have an overdraft facility in its bancor account at the International Clearing Union. He pointed out that surpluses lead to weak global aggregate demand – countries running surpluses exert a \"negative externality\" on trading partners, and posed far more than those in deficit, a threat to global prosperity.\nIn \"\"National Self-Sufficiency\" The Yale Review, Vol. 22, no. 4 (June 1933)\", he already highlighted the problems created by free trade .\nHis view, supported by many economists and commentators at the time, was that creditor nations may be just as responsible as debtor nations for disequilibrium in exchanges and that both should be under an obligation to bring trade back into a state of balance. Failure for them to do so could have serious consequences. In the words of Geoffrey Crowther, then editor of The Economist, \"If the economic relationships between nations are not, by one means or another, brought fairly close to balance, then there is no set of financial arrangements that can rescue the world from the impoverishing results of chaos.\"\nThese ideas were informed by events prior to the Great Depression when – in the opinion of Keynes and others – international lending, primarily by the U.S., exceeded the capacity of sound investment and so got diverted into non-productive and speculative uses, which in turn invited default and a sudden stop to the process of lending.\nInfluenced by Keynes, economics texts in the immediate post-war period put a significant emphasis on balance in trade. For example, the second edition of the popular introductory textbook, \"An Outline of Money\", devoted the last three of its ten chapters to questions of foreign exchange management and in particular the 'problem of balance'. However, in more recent years, since the end of the Bretton Woods system in 1971, with the increasing influence of Monetarist schools of thought in the 1980s, and particularly in the face of large sustained trade imbalances, these concerns – and particularly concerns about the destabilising effects of large trade surpluses – have largely disappeared from mainstream economics discourse and Keynes' insights have slipped from view. They are receiving some attention again in the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–08.\n\nKeynes's early romantic and sexual relationships were exclusively with men. Keynes had been in relationships while at Eton and Cambridge; significant among these early partners were Dilly Knox and Daniel Macmillan. Keynes was open about his affairs, and from 1901 to 1915 kept separate diaries in which he tabulated his many sexual encounters. Keynes's relationship and later close friendship with Macmillan was to be fortunate, as Macmillan's company first published his tract \"Economic Consequences of the Peace\".\n\nAttitudes in the Bloomsbury Group, in which Keynes was avidly involved, were relaxed about homosexuality. Keynes, together with writer Lytton Strachey, had reshaped the Victorian attitudes of the Cambridge Apostles: \"since [their] time, homosexual relations among the members were for a time common\", wrote Bertrand Russell. The artist Duncan Grant, whom he met in 1908, was one of Keynes's great loves. Keynes was also involved with Lytton Strachey, though they were for the most part love rivals, not lovers. Keynes had won the affections of Arthur Hobhouse, and as with Grant, fell out with a jealous Strachey for it. Strachey had previously found himself put off by Keynes, not least because of his manner of \"treat[ing] his love affairs statistically\".\n\nPolitical opponents have used Keynes's sexuality to attack his academic work. One line of attack held that he was uninterested in the long term ramifications of his theories because he had no children.\n\nKeynes's friends in the Bloomsbury Group were initially surprised when, in his later years, he began dating and pursuing affairs with women, demonstrating himself to be bisexual. Ray Costelloe (who would later marry Oliver Strachey) was an early heterosexual interest of Keynes. In 1906, Keynes had written of this infatuation that, \"I seem to have fallen in love with Ray a little bit, but as she isn't male I haven't [been] able to think of any suitable steps to take.\"\n\nIn 1921, Keynes wrote that he had fallen \"very much in love\" with Lydia Lopokova, a well-known Russian ballerina and one of the stars of Sergei Diaghilev's \"Ballets Russes\". In the early years of his courtship, he maintained an affair with a younger man, Sebastian Sprott, in tandem with Lopokova, but eventually chose Lopokova exclusively. They were married in 1925, with Keynes's former lover Duncan Grant as best man. \"What a marriage of beauty and brains, the fair Lopokova and John Maynard Keynes\" was said at the time. Keynes later commented to Strachey that beauty and intelligence were rarely found in the same person, and that only in Duncan Grant had he found the combination. The union was happy, with biographer Peter Clarke writing that the marriage gave Keynes \"a new focus, a new emotional stability and a sheer delight of which he never wearied\".\nLydia became pregnant in 1927 but miscarried.\nAmong Keynes's Bloomsbury friends, Lopokova was, at least initially, subjected to criticism for her manners, mode of conversation, and supposedly humble social origins – the last of the ostensible causes being particularly noted in the letters of Vanessa and Clive Bell, and Virginia Woolf. In her novel \"Mrs Dalloway\" (1925), Woolf bases the character of Rezia Warren Smith on Lopokova. E. M. Forster would later write in contrition about \"Lydia Keynes, every whose word should be recorded\": \"How we all used to underestimate her\".\n\nKeynes thought that the pursuit of money for its own sake was a pathological condition, and that the proper aim of work is to provide leisure. He wanted shorter working hours and longer holidays for all.\n\nKeynes was interested in literature in general and drama in particular and supported the Cambridge Arts Theatre financially, which allowed the institution to become one of the major British stages outside London.\n\nKeynes's personal interest in classical opera and dance led him to support the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden and the Ballet Company at Sadler's Wells. During the war, as a member of CEMA (Council for the Encouragement of Music and the Arts), Keynes helped secure government funds to maintain both companies while their venues were shut. Following the war, Keynes was instrumental in establishing the Arts Council of Great Britain and was its founding chairman in 1946. From the start, the two organisations that received the largest grants from the new body were the Royal Opera House and Sadler's Wells.\n\nLike several other notable British authors of his time, Keynes was a member of the Bloomsbury Group. Virginia Woolf's biographer tells an anecdote of how Virginia Woolf, Keynes, and T. S. Eliot discussed religion at a dinner party, in the context of their struggle against Victorian era morality.\nKeynes may have been confirmed, but according to Cambridge University he was clearly an agnostic, which he remained until his death. According to one biographer, \"he was never able to take religion seriously, regarding it as a strange aberration of the human mind.\"\n\nKeynes was ultimately a successful investor, building up a private fortune. His assets were nearly wiped out following the Wall Street Crash of 1929, which he did not foresee, but he soon recouped. At Keynes's death, in 1946, his net worth stood just short of £500,000 – equivalent to about £11 million ($16.5 million) in 2009. The sum had been amassed despite lavish support for various good causes and his personal ethic which made him reluctant to sell on a falling market, in cases where he saw such behaviour as likely to deepen a slump.\n\nKeynes built up a substantial collection of fine art, including works by Paul Cézanne, Edgar Degas, Amedeo Modigliani, Georges Braque, Pablo Picasso, and Georges Seurat (some of which can now be seen at the Fitzwilliam Museum). He enjoyed collecting books; he collected and protected many of Isaac Newton's papers. In part on the basis of these papers, Keynes wrote of Newton as \"the last of the magicians.\"\n\nKeynes successfully managed the endowment of King's College, Cambridge, with the active component of his portfolio outperforming a British equity index by an average of 8% a year over a quarter century, earning him favourable mention by later investors such as Warren Buffett and George Soros.\n\nKeynes was a lifelong member of the Liberal Party, which until the 1920s had been one of the two main political parties in the United Kingdom, and as late as 1916 had often been the dominant power in government. Keynes had helped campaign for the Liberals at elections from about 1906, yet he always refused to run for office himself, despite being asked to do so on three separate occasions in 1920. From 1926, when Lloyd George became leader of the Liberals, Keynes took a major role in defining the party's economic policy, but by then the Liberals had been displaced into third party status by the Labour Party.\n\nIn 1939 Keynes had the option to enter Parliament as an independent MP with the University of Cambridge seat. A by-election for the seat was to be held due to the illness of an elderly Tory, and the master of Magdalene College had obtained agreement that none of the major parties would field a candidate if Keynes chose to stand. Keynes declined the invitation as he felt he would wield greater influence on events if he remained a free agent.\n\nKeynes was a proponent of eugenics. He served as director of the British Eugenics Society from 1937 to 1944. As late as 1946, shortly before his death, Keynes declared eugenics to be \"the most important, significant and, I would add, genuine branch of sociology which exists.\"\n\nKeynes once remarked that \"the youth had no religion save communism and this was worse than nothing.\" Marxism \"was founded upon nothing better than a misunderstanding of Ricardo\", and, given time, he (Keynes) \"would deal thoroughly with the Marxists\" and other economists to solve the economic problems their theories \"threaten to cause\".\n\nIn 1931 Keynes had the following to say on Marxism:\nKeynes was a firm supporter of women's rights and in 1932 became vice-chairman of the Marie Stopes Society which provided birth control education. He also campaigned against job discrimination against women and unequal pay. He was an outspoken campaigner for reform of the laws against homosexuality.\n\nThroughout his life, Keynes worked energetically for the benefit both of the public and his friends; even when his health was poor, he laboured to sort out the finances of his old college. Helping to set up the Bretton Woods system, he worked to institute an international monetary system that would be beneficial for the world economy. Keynes suffered a series of heart attacks, which ultimately proved fatal. They began during negotiations for the Anglo-American loan in Savannah, Georgia, where he was trying to secure favourable terms for the United Kingdom from the United States, a process he described as \"absolute hell\". A few weeks after returning from the United States, Keynes died of a heart attack at Tilton, his farmhouse home near Firle, East Sussex, England, on 21 April 1946, at the age of 62. Against his wishes (he wanted for his ashes to be deposited in the crypt at King's), his ashes were scattered on the Downs above Tilton.\n\nBoth of Keynes's parents outlived him: his father John Neville Keynes (1852–1949) by three years, and his mother Florence Ada Keynes (1861–1958) by twelve. Keynes's brother Sir Geoffrey Keynes (1887–1982) was a distinguished surgeon, scholar, and bibliophile. His nephews include Richard Keynes (1919–2010), a physiologist, and Quentin Keynes (1921–2003), an adventurer and bibliophile. Keynes had no children; his widow, Lydia Lopokova, died in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31796861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31796861", "title": "Karrar Hussain", "text": "Karrar Hussain\n\nKarrar Hussain (1911–1999) was a Pakistani educationist, writer and literary critic. In his student days in British India he was affiliated with the Khaksar movement, with which he later parted ways due to a difference of opinion.\n\nKarrar Hussain was born in Kota, Rajasthan, British India. After passing Intermediate Exams from Meerut, he went to Agra University and got master's degrees in English and Urdu. As a student politician, he was affiliated with the Indian National Congress and Khaksar Tehreek by Allama Mushriqui. He started working at Meerut College in 1933, where Jameel Jalibi, Hasan Askari, Intizar Hussain, and Saleem Ahmed were his students.\n\nIn 1948 he migrated to Pakistan, where he continued as a lecturer in English at several colleges and was appointed as the first vice-chancellor of the University of Balochistan in 1976.\n\nAmong his many writings is a biographical treatise about the Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib commissioned by the \"Idara Yadgaar-e-Gahlib\" titled \"Ghalib: Sab Achcha Kahein Jissay\".\n\nKarrar was also a scholar of Islam, though he advocated that secularism provided the best environment for an Islamic society.\n\nHis written work includes several books and published collections of his speeches. He also wrote Urdu poetry, including Naat, Salam, Munqibat, Marsiyas, Nazm and Ghazals. His poems have been published in various literary magazines.\n\nStudy of Quran\n\nQuran & our Lives\n\nGhalib: Sab Achcha Kahein Jissay\n\nSawalat o Khayalaat\n\n\nIqbal, Socialism aur Islam \nPakistani Culture aur iskey Masail\n\n\nDistribution of Wealth in Islam by Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanwi (Translated by Prof Karrar Hussain & Prof Hasan Askari\nAnswer to Modernism by Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanwi (Translated by Prof Karrar Hussain & Prof Hasan Askari)\n\nProf Karrar Hussain died on 7 November 1999 in Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nAfter Karrar's death in 1999, an annual Professor Karrar Husain Memorial Lecture has been held in Pakistan, at which several prominent speakers have spoken, including sociologist Hamza Alavi.\n"}
{"id": "1799388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799388", "title": "Korean Confucian art", "text": "Korean Confucian art\n\nKorean Confucian art took strong hold with the Yi generals who set in place the Joseon dynasty which distinguished itself in many ways by promoting Confucian thought as the basis for a new national vision. Differentiating itself by restraint, spartan choices of color, and design, understatement, and great care and precision, the legacy of this art since the 13th century has been extensive throughout Asia. Confucian art was inspired of course by Confucius. Confucian art originated in China, then spread westwards on the Silk road, southward down to southern China and then onto Southeast Asia, and eastwards through northern China on to Japan and Korea. \n\nKorean flower arrangement is part of the Confucian tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "10508476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10508476", "title": "Kurt Aland", "text": "Kurt Aland\n\nKurt Aland, (28 March 1915 – 13 April 1994) was a German theologian and biblical scholar who specialized in New Testament textual criticism. He founded the \"Institut für neutestamentliche Textforschung\" (Institute for New Testament Textual Research) in Münster and served as its first director from 1959–83. He was one of the principal editors of \"Nestle-Aland – Novum Testamentum Graece\" for the Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft and \"The Greek New Testament\" for the United Bible Societies.\n\nAland was born in Berlin-Steglitz. He started studying theology in 1933 at the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in Berlin (he also studied philology, archaeology, and history). On 23 March that year he was examined before the \"Bruderrat\" (council of brothers) in the \"Bekennende Kirche\" (Confessing Church). During his studies, he worked for the journal of the Confessing Church, \"Junge Kirche\" (Young Church). In an ideological brochure, \"Wer fälscht?\" (Who is lying?), written against Mathilde Ludendorff, he confirmed the position of the Confessing Church and identified with them. In 1939 he studied for his bachelor's degree under the guidance of Hans Lietzmann. In 1940 he was released from military service; and in 1941, after Lietzmann's death, he took over the responsibilities of editing the \"Theologische Literaturzeitung\" (the only German theological magazine at that time). He graduated that same year, and in 1944 was ordained as minister of the parish of Berlin-Steglitz.\n\nAfter World War II, Aland became a lecturer on the theological faculty of the Humboldt University of Berlin. In 1947 he was appointed professor ordinarius in Halle (Saale).\n\nAland disapproved of the Marxist government of East Germany, and was persecuted as a result. In 1953 he was accused of smuggling watches to West Berlin and was kept under arrest for three months. Aland frequently spoke out against various forms of state oppression directed at churches and also demanded freedom of speech in East Germany. In July 1958, he lost his job at the university. However, in September of that year, he successfully escaped to West Berlin. His 8000-volume library was incorporated into the University Library.\n\nIn 1958 he became a professor at the University of Münster, Germany. Aland rejected a professorship of the University of Chicago in 1960. In Münster he founded the Institute for New Testament Textual Research (\"Institut für neutestamentliche Textforschung\") in 1959, which he directed until 1983. Furthermore, he founded the world's first \"Bible Museum\" in 1979, which was unique in the world for many years. His institute achieved worldwide recognition by publishing the \"Nestle-Aland - Novum Testamentum Graece\" and \"The Greek New Testament\" for the United Bible Societies.\n\nAland was married twice. His first marriage was to Ingeborg Aland (they had three children together). In 1972 he married Barbara Aland. He died in Münster, Germany in 1994.\n\nKurt Aland was representative of increasing specialism within theological-historical studies. In the field of New Testament research, his work (and also the work that he did together with his wife Barbara Aland in the Institute for New Testament Textual Research in Münster) is internationally acclaimed.\n\nThe focus of his work began as an intense and adventurous search for old manuscripts on several expeditions to abbeys in Russia and Greece (amongst others). He discovered numerous manuscripts of the New Testament, whose evaluation is still in progress. Most notable among his work was the newly arranged edition of \"Novum Testamentum Graece\" (Greek New Testament) in 1979 (also called Nestle-Aland). This textual foundation for the New Testament exemplifies a scholarly mentality aimed at achieving the highest possible convergence with the \"original text.\"\n\nFurthermore, he acted in the Hermann-Kunst-Stiftung, which was founded in 1964 by Hermann Kunst, a good friend of Aland. Many important figures within politics and economics participated in the sponsorship of the Institute for New Testament Textual Research.\n\nAnother priority in his life was church history, being concerned with the early church, the Reformation, and movements such as pietism and revivalism.\n\nAland received critical acclaim for his profundity and comprehensive knowledge of the textual sources for the New Testament. His contemporary presence is relevant, having contributed to modern scientific methodology. Aland was of the opinion that every work within historical research stands on its adherence to reliability and accessibility.\n\nThe archives (\"Nachlass\") of Kurt Aland are provided in the University Archives of the University of Münster, Germany.\n\nKurt Aland achieved the following honorary doctorates:\n\nHe received the following awards:\n\nKurt Aland was a member of the following academies:\n\nFestschriften:\n\nThe American Society of Biblical Literature elected him an Honorary Member. Furthermore, Aland was elected an Honorary Life Member in 1966 by the American Bible Society.\n\nKurt Aland wrote and published numerous books and articles in magazines; his bibliography lists 477 publications. Therefore, the following list provides only an excerpt of his work.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40152905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40152905", "title": "Max Bernhard Weinstein", "text": "Max Bernhard Weinstein\n\nMax Bernhard Weinstein (1 September 1852 in Kaunas, Vilna Governorate – 25 March 1918) was a German physicist and philosopher. He is best known as an opponent of Albert Einstein's Theory of Relativity, and for having written a broad examination of the theological theory of Pandeism.\n\nThe Russian-born Weinstein translated James Clerk Maxwell's \"Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism\" into German in 1883, and taught courses on electrodynamics at the University of Berlin.\n\nWhile teaching at the Institute of Physics in the University of Berlin, Weinstein associated with Max Planck, Emil du Bois-Reymond, Hermann von Helmholtz, Ernst Pringsheim, Sr., Wilhelm Wien, Carl A. Paalzow of the Technische Hochschule in Berlin Charlottenburg, August Kundt, Werner von Siemens, theologian Adolph von Siemens, historian Theodor Mommsen, and Germanic philologist Wilhelm Scherer.\n\nWeinstein was among the first physicists to reject and criticize Albert Einstein's theory of relativity, contending that \"general relativity had removed gravity from its earlier isolated position and made it into a \"world power\" controlling all laws of nature,\" and warning that \"physics and mathematics would have to be revised.\" It was Weinstein's writings, and their impact driving public sentiment against Einstein's theories, which led astronomer Wilhelm Foerster to convince Einstein to write a more accessible explanation of those ideas. But, one commentator contends that Weinstein's summaries of relativistic physics were \"tedious exercises in algebra.\"\n\nIn addition to his work in physics, Weinstein wrote several philosophical works. \"Welt- und Lebensanschauungen, Hervorgegangen aus Religion, Philosophie und Naturerkenntnis\" (\"World and Life Views, Emerging From Religion, Philosophy and Nature\") (1910) examined the origins and development of a great many philosophical areas, including the broadest and most far-reaching examination of the theological theory of Pandeism written up to that point. A critique reviewing Weinstein's work in this field deemed Pandeism to be an 'unsightly' combination of Greek and Latin. The reviewer further criticises Weinstein's broad assertions that such historical philosophers as Scotus Erigena, Anselm of Canterbury, Nicholas of Cusa, Giordano Bruno, Mendelssohn, and Lessing all were Pandeists or leaned towards Pandeism.\n\nPhilosophically, Weinstein was attracted to what he called a psychical or spiritual monism, which he believed to be comparable to the Pantheism of Spinoza, and wherein the essence of all phenomena could be found entirely in the mind. Though he could see no way around the eventual heat death of the Universe, Weinstein suggested that there existed a fundamental 'psychical energy,' of which a maximum-entropy world would ultimately consist. Weinstein wrote:\n\nFrom this premise Weinstein reasoned that the world must have both a beginning and an end, and that a supernatural force must have initiated it, and so could bring about its end as well:\n\nThough he rejected theistic formulations regarding such things, Weinstein found the origin of the Universe to be so problematic that he wrote: \"As far as I can see, only Spinozist pantheism, among all philosophies, can lead to a satisfactory solution.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24639243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24639243", "title": "Menhuan", "text": "Menhuan\n\nMenhuan () is a term used by Chinese-speaking Muslims for a Chinese-style Sufi order. The leaders of a menhuan over the ages form a chain of spiritual succession, known in Arabic as \"silsilah\", which goes back to the order's founder in China (e.g., Ma Laichi or Ma Mingxin), and beyond, toward his teachers in Arabia.\n\nThe term \"menhuan\" itself is of comparatively recent origin: according to Ma Tong (1983), it was first attested in an essay by the Hezhou Prefecture Magistrate Yang Zengxin dated 1897. It has been suggested by Chinese researchers that it has developed from \"menfa\" (), meaning \"powerful and influential family\", or \"menhu\" (), which has been used in the Northwestern China to mean \"gateway\" or \"faction\".\n"}
{"id": "41605844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41605844", "title": "Mohammad Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi", "text": "Mohammad Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi\n\nAkhundzada Mohammad Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi () (1 January 1909 – 9 October 1970) was a Muslim theologian, faqīh, and mufassir in Pakistan (\"South Asia\"). He was active in the Pakistan movement, member of Council of Islamic Ideology. He was the companion of Muhammad Ali Jinnah and separatist leader Maulana Zafar Ali Khan and was active in the independence movement of Pakistan against the British Raj. He was a Sufi saint of the Chishti Sufi order and the founding member of the religious Barelvi Sunni strain political party Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan (JUP). He became its president in 1948. He was also a political figure in Pakistan and was the first recipient of Nishan-e-Imtiaz (Order of Excellence) by the President of Pakistan. He was also the chairman of Majlis-e-Tahaffuz-e-Khatme Nabuwwat, an organisation opposed to the Ahmadiyya Movement that waged a campaign against Mirza Ghulam Ahmed's claim of prophethood.\n\nHazarvi was born in Chamba Village, Kot Najeebullah, North-West Frontier Province, British India. His father Abdul Hameed Hazarvi, an Islamic scholar, belonged to the Karlal Hindko tribe. He was a follower of the Chishti Order. He was the elder of his four brothers and sisters. He started studies of Islamic law, Urdu, Persian and Arabic languages at the local maktab in Chamba Village,Hazarvi studied from scholars including Muhib-un-Nabi. He was the student of Mushtaq Ahmad Kanpuri, where he learned Islamic Jurisprudence and traditional Dars-i-Nizami. He completed the Dawra Hadith and Qur'anic exegesis with Hamid Raza Khan the elder son of Ahmad Raza Khan in Madrasa Manzar-e-Islam, Bareily. Hamid Raza Khan gave this student of his khilafat, which is why Qadri is written on his gravestone. Hazarvi was attracted to mathematics, and studied the fundamental concepts in mathematics in depth.\n\nHazarvi offered Bay'ah (allegiance) to Meher Ali Shah at the age of 11 and asked him to pray that he could become a scholar. Pir Meher Ali Shah said to him that \"jaao! eik din tum bohot barei moulvi bano gei\" (Mawlawi was the title used for Alim in those days).\n\nAt the age of 28, in 1937 Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi went to Jeendhar Sharif, Gujrat, at the service of Uwais-e-Waqat Khawaja Gohar Munir Jeendharvi which was a great Sufi of the Uwaisi order, who devoted everything to his followers, due to this immense fayz (blessing), Hazarvi progressed rapidly through the stages of spiritual training and Tasawwuf. He conferred \"khilafah\" upon Hazarvi thus giving him permission to speak on behalf of the Uwaisi Order.\n\nAfter taking the education he started the teaching Quran and Hadith in Madrasa Manzar-e-Islam in Bareilly, India. After then he taught Dars-i-Nizami in Jamia Khudam-ul-Sufiya in Gujrat, where he performed his duties as Mudarris. On (1935), Hazarvi established Jamia Nizamia Ghousia in Wazirabad, where he served as the Mohatmim and Khatib. Hazarvi was a great Mudarris and in the month of Ramadan especially he would teach Dowra Qur'an to advanced students over the 30 days.\n\nAbdul Ghafoor Hazarvi being one of the best speakers in South Asia, he was a brilliant orator, and he had his gifted ability to answer and reply spontaneously. Many people would go \"Mast\" when he delivered his speeches. Ghazali-e-Zaman Syed Ahmad Saeed Kazmi Shah would consider himself uneducated in front of him. Hazarvi shared a close relationship with Muhaddith-e-Azam Pakistan Moulana Sardar Ahmad Qadri; both had studied under Hamid Raza Khan.\n\nHazarvi was involved with the Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan (JUP), Anjuman-e-Talaba-e-Islam (ATI), Majlis-e-Tahaffuz-e-Khatme Nabuwwat and All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-e-Millat which later on merged in All-India Muslim League in 1940.\n\nHazarvi was one of the provincial delegates to the Lahore Resolution of the All India Muslim League session which he was participated on 22–24 March 1940. During the Pakistan Movement, Hazarvi was among the scholars who sided with Muhammad Ali Jinnah and the Muslim League, on the platform of \"All India Sunni Conference″ held at Banaras in 1946. When Pakistan movement began for the independence of India, the Indian National Congress was supported by many Muslim scholars, leaders and the learned who were devotees of Indian nationality and stood side by side with the Hindu leaders. Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi announced his assistance and loyalty to Qa’id A‘zam in the struggle to acquire Pakistan. After the passage of Lahore Resolution he gave an all out support to the Mohammad Ali Jinnah for the achievement of Pakistan. He made intensive tours of the country to generate support for the AIML. He advised his followers to work for the AIML and emphatically declared that he would not lead the funeral prayers of any devotee if he had not participated in the Pakistan Movement in any capacity. He was twice nominated as a member of the Council of Islamic Ideology, where he worked hard to Islamicize the existing laws. Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi supported AIML during the elections 1945–46. His sincere campaign in the election of 1945–46 resulted in grand success of AIML candidates. During referendum in 1947 in NWFP he also visited the province and mustered his support for AIML.\n\nIn the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi donated all the ornaments of his family to the Pakistan Army. He was twice nominated as a member of the Council of Islamic Ideology, where he worked hard to Islamicize the existing laws.\n\nDuring the Ayub era, nine prominent leaders belonging to different political parties were tried for mutiny under the Official Secret Act. The nine of them had decided to initiate a democratic movement; As a president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan Abdul Ghafoor Hazarvi was one of the nine. The trial lingered on for two years. Ultimately, the case was taken back by the government, for lack of evidence. In 1965, the joint opposition was organised, he was one of its central leaders. Along with other leaders of the COP, Hazarvi toured the two wings of the country (East and West Pakistan) to create mass awareness and organise a strong national democratic movement. The military ruler, president Muhammad Ayub Khan (1958–1969), banned political parties and warned Hazarvi against continued political activism. Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan supported the opposition party, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM). In the 1964–1965 presidential elections, Hazarvi supported the opposition leader, Fatima Jinnah.\n\nMirza Ghulam Ahmad of Qadian claimed to be the Mahdi (messiah) awaited by Muslims, as well as a \"Ummati Nabi\", a subordinate prophet to Muhammed who brings no new Sharia but instead restores Islam to its pure form. These claims proved controversial among many Muslims, and Hazarvi branded Mirza Ghulam Ahmad as a heretic and apostate and called him and his followers (Ahmadis) Kuffar.\nHazarvi was also the founding member of Majlis-e-Tahaffuz-e-Khatme Nabuwwat, Pakistani nationalist Muslim political movement in Pakistan. He led a movement against Ahmadis and held a Khatme Nabuwwat Conference at Rabwah in 21–23 October 1953.\nAbdul Ghafoor Hazarvi was a central figure in the Khatme Nabuwwat Movement of 1953, which demanded that government of Pakistan declare the Ahmadis as non-Muslims. Hazarvi was active in the Khatme Nabuwwat movement.\n\nHazarvi believed that:\n\nHazarvi wrote:\n\n\n\n\nHazarvi wrote and translated books on a variety of subjects, including his compilation of Manaqib-al-Jaleela, is a book on Islamic Jurisprudence.\n\nOther works include:\n\n\nHazarvi's understanding of Islamic law has been presented concisely in his book \"Manaqib-al-Jaleela\". Hazarvi's inspiration from his mentor, Ahmed Raza Khan Barelvi and non-traditionalist approach to the religion has parted him from traditionalist understanding on a number of issues, but he never goes out of the traditional framework.\n\nHazarvi believes that there are certain directives of the Qur'an pertaining to war which were specific only to Muhammad and certain specified peoples of his times (particularly the progeny of Abraham: the Ishmaelites, the Israelites, and the Nazarites). Thus, Muhammad and his designated followers waged a war against Divinely specified peoples of their time (the polytheists and the Israelites and Nazarites of Arabia and some other Jews, Christians, et al.) as a form of Divine punishment and asked the polytheists of Arabia for submission to Islam as a condition for exoneration and the others for jizya and submission to the political authority of the Muslims for exemption from death punishment and for military protection as the dhimmis of the Muslims. Therefore, after Muhammad and his companions, there is no concept in Islam obliging Muslims to wage war for propagation or implementation of Islam. The only valid basis for jihad through arms is to end oppression when all other measures have failed. According to him Jihad can only be waged by an organised Islamic state. No person, party or group can take arms into their hands (for the purpose of waging Jihad) under any circumstances. Another corollary, in his opinion, is that death punishment for apostasy was also specifically for the recipients of the same Divine punishment during Muhammad's times—for they had persistently denied the truth of Muhammad's mission even after it had been made conclusively evident to them by God through Muhammad.\n\nThe formation of an Islamic state is not a religious obligation \"per se\" upon the Muslims. However, he believes that if and when Muslims form a state of their own, Islam does impose certain religious obligations on its rulers as establishment of the institution of salat (obligatory prayer), zakah (mandatory charity), and \"'amr bi'l-ma'ruf wa nahi 'ani'l-munkar\" (preservation and promotion of society's good conventions and customs and eradication of social vices; this, in Hazarvi's opinion, should be done in modern times through courts, police, etc. in accordance with the law of the land which, as the government itself, must be based on the opinion of the majority).\n\nThe Qur'an states norms for male-female interaction in surah An-Nur. While in surah Al-Ahzab, there are special directives for wives of Muhammad and directives given to Muslim women to distinguish themselves when they were being harassed in Medina. The Qur'an has created a distinction between men and women only to maintain family relations and relationships.\n\n\n\nHazarvi died on 9 October 1970, in a road accident at Wazirabad, Punjab, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "11600453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11600453", "title": "Muhō Noelke", "text": "Muhō Noelke\n\nAt age 16, Muhō was introduced to \"zazen\" by one of his high school teachers and soon had the wish to become a Zen monk. To prepare for his stay in Japan, he studied Japanese at the university in Berlin, along with philosophy and physics. During his studies, he spent one year at Kyoto University and learned for the first time about Antai-ji. At age 22, he spent six months there as a lay practitioner.\n\nThree years later, after graduating from university, Muhō was ordained as a Sōtō Zen monk under the abbot Miyaura Shinyu Rōshi. Apart from Antai-ji, he has trained for one year at the Rinzai monastery Tōfuku-ji in Kyoto, and one year at Hosshin-ji in Obama, Fukui.\n\nAfter obtaining the transmission of dharma (\"shihō\") from his teacher Miyaura Rōshi, Muhō decided to live as a homeless monk in a park in central Osaka, where he led a \"zazen\" group in 2001. Six months later, in February 2002, he learned of the sudden death of his teacher and was called back to Antai-ji. He succeeded his teacher as the ninth abbot in the spring of that year. Apart from his responsibilities at Antai-ji, he is also teaching at Chigen-ji, a Sōtō Zen priest seminary in Kyoto prefecture.\n\nMuhō has published numerous books and translations in both Japanese and German. He has also featured in several short films, including documentaries by director Takeshi Kitano and broadcaster Peter Barakan's \"Begin Japanology\", as well as Werner Penzel's feature film \"Zen for Nothing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2225085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2225085", "title": "Naturphilosophie", "text": "Naturphilosophie\n\nNaturphilosophie (German for \"nature-philosophy\") is a term used in English-language philosophy to identify a current in the philosophical tradition of German idealism, as applied to the study of nature in the earlier 19th century. German speakers use the clearer term \"Romantische Naturphilosophie\", the philosophy of nature developed at the time of the founding of German Romanticism. It is particularly associated with the philosophical work of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel—though it has some clear precursors also. More particularly it is identified with some of the initial works of Schelling during the period 1797–9, in reaction to the views of Fichte, and subsequent developments from Schelling's position. Always controversial, some of Schelling's ideas in this direction are still considered of philosophical interest, even if the subsequent development of experimental natural science had a destructive impact on the credibility of the theories of his followers in \"Naturphilosophie\".\n\n\"Naturphilosophie\" attempted to comprehend nature in its totality and to outline its general theoretical structure, thus attempting to lay the foundations for the natural sciences. In developing their theories, the German \"Naturphilosophen\" found their inspiration in the natural philosophy of the Ancient Greek Ionian philosophers.\n\nAs an approach to philosophy and science, \"Naturphilosophie\" has had a difficult reception. In Germany, Neo-Kantians came to distrust its developments as speculative and overly metaphysical. For most of the 19th and early 20th centuries, it was poorly understood in Anglophone countries. Over the years, it has been subjected to continuing criticism. Since the 1960s, improved translations have appeared, and scholars have developed a better appreciation of the objectives of \"Naturphilosophie\".\n\nThe German Idealist philosopher Fichte had attempted to show that the whole structure of reality follows necessarily from the fact of self-consciousness. Schelling took Fichte's position as his starting-point, and in his earliest writings posited that nature must have reality for itself. In this light Fichte's doctrines appeared incomplete. On the one hand, they identified the ultimate ground of the universe of reason too closely with finite, individual Spirit. On the other, they threatened the reality of the world of nature by seeing it too much in the manner of subjective idealism. Fichte, in this view, had not managed to unite his system with the aesthetic view of nature to which Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Judgment\" had pointed.\n\n\"Naturphilosophie\" is therefore one possible theory of the unity of nature. Nature as the sum of what is objective, and intelligence as the complex of all the activities making up self-consciousness, appear as equally real. The philosophy of nature and transcendental idealism would be the two complementary portions making up philosophy as a whole.\n\n\"Naturphilosophie\" translated into English would mean just \"philosophy of nature\", and its scope began to be taken in a broad way. Johann Gottfried Herder, particularly taken in opposition to Immanuel Kant, was a precursor of Schelling:\n\nHerder's dynamic view of nature was developed by Goethe and Schelling and led to the tradition of \"Naturphilosophie\"[...]\n\nLater Friedrich Schlegel theorised about a particular German strand in philosophy of nature, citing Jakob Böhme, Johannes Kepler and Georg Ernst Stahl, with Jan Baptist van Helmont as an edge case. Frederick Beiser instead traces \"Naturphilosophie\" as developed by Schelling, Hegel, Schlegel and Novalis to a crux in the theory of matter, and identifies the origins of the line they took with the \"vis viva\" theory of matter in the work of Gottfried Leibniz.\n\nSubsequently Schelling identified himself with Baruch de Spinoza, to whose thought he saw himself as approaching. The \"Darstellung meines Systems\", and the expanded treatment in the lectures on a \"System der gesamten Philosophie und der Naturphilosophie insbesondere\" given in Würzburg in 1804, contain elements of Spinoza's philosophy.\n\nIn a short space of time Schelling produced three works: \"Ideen zu einer Philosophie der Natur als Einleitung in das Studium dieser Wissenschaft\", 1797 (\"Ideas for a Philosophy of Nature as Introduction to the Study of this Science\"); \"Von der Weltseele\", 1798 (\"On the World Soul\"); and \"Erster Entwurf eines Systems der Naturphilosophie\", 1799 (First Plan of a System of the Philosophy of Nature). As criticism of scientific procedure, these writings retain a relevance. Historically, according to Richards:\n\nDespite the tentativeness of their titles, these monographs introduced radical interpretations of nature that would reverberate through the sciences, and particularly the biology, of the next century. They developed the fundamental doctrines of \"Naturphilosophie\".\n\nIn \"System des transzendentalen Idealismus\", 1800 (\"System of Transcendental Idealism\") Schelling included ideas on matter and the organic in Part III. They form just part of a more ambitious work that takes up other themes, in particular aesthetics. From this point onwards \"Naturphilosophie\" was less of a research concern for him, as he reformulated his philosophy. However, it remained an influential aspect of his teaching. For a short while, he edited a journal, the \"Neue Zeitschrift für speculative Physik\" (bound volume 1802).\n\nSchelling's \"Naturphilosophie\" was a way in which he worked himself out of the tutelage of Fichte, with whom he quarrelled decisively towards the end of the 1790s. More than that, however, it brought him within the orbit of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, both intellectually and (as a direct consequence of Goethe's sympathetic attitude) by a relocation; and it broke with basic Kantian tenets. Grant writes:\n\nSchelling's postkantian confrontation with nature itself begins with the overthrow of the Copernican revolution ...\n\nSchelling held that the divisions imposed on nature, by our ordinary perception and thought, do not have absolute validity. They should be interpreted as the outcome of the single formative energy which is the soul or inner aspect of nature. In other words he was a proponent of a variety of organicism. The dynamic series of stages in nature, the forms in which the ideal structure of nature is realized, are matter, as the equilibrium of the fundamental expansive and contractive forces; light, with its subordinate processes (magnetism, electricity, and chemical action); organism, with its component phases of reproduction, irritability and sensibility. The continual change presented to us by experience, taken together with the thought of unity in productive force of nature, leads to the conception of the duality through which nature expresses itself in its varied products.\n\nIn the introduction to the \"Ideen\" he argues against dogmatism, in the terms that a dogmatist cannot explain the organic; and that recourse to the idea of a cosmic creator is a feature of dogmatic systems imposed by the need to explain nature as purposive and unified. Fichte's system, called the \"Wissenschaftslehre\", had begun with a fundamental distinction between dogmatism (fatalistic) and criticism (free), as his formulation of idealism.\n\nBeiser divides up the mature form of Schelling's \"Naturphilosophie\" into the attitudes of transcendental realism (the thesis that \"nature exists independent of all consciousness, even that of the transcendental subject\") and transcendental naturalism (the thesis that \"everything is explicable according to the laws of nature, including the rationality of the transcendental subject\"). He notes how \"Naturphilosophie\" was first a counterbalance to \"Wissenschaftslehre\", and then in Schelling's approach became the senior partner. After that, it was hardly to be avoided that Schelling would become an opponent of Fichte, having been a close follower in the early 1790s.\n\nWe are able to apprehend and represent nature to ourselves in the successive forms which its development assumes, since it is the same spirit of which we become aware in self-consciousness, though here unconsciously. The variety of its forms is not imposed on it externally, since there is no external teleology in nature. Nature is a self-forming whole, within which only natural explanations can be sought. The function of \"Naturphilosophie\" is to exhibit the ideal as springing from the real, not to deduce the real from the ideal.\n\nCriticism of \"Naturphilosophie\" has been widespread, over two centuries. Schelling's theories, however influential in terms of the general culture of the time, have not survived in scientific terms. Like other strands of speculation in the life sciences, in particular, such as vitalism, they retreated in the face of experiment, and then were written out of the history of science as Whig history. But critics were initially not scientists (a term not used until later); rather they came largely from within philosophy and Romantic science, a community including many physicians. Typically, the retrospective views of scientists of the 19th century on \"Romantic science\" in general erased distinctions:\n\nScientific criticism in the nineteenth century took hardly any notice of the distinctions between Romantic, speculative and transcendental, scientific and aesthetic directions.\n\nOne outspoken critic was the chemist Justus von Liebig, who compared \"Naturphilosophie\" with the Black Death. Another critic, the physiologist Emil du Bois-Reymond, frequently dismissed \"Naturphilosophie\" as \"bogus.\"\n\nIsaiah Berlin summed up the reasons why \"Naturphilosophie\" had a wide-ranging impact on views of art and artists:\n\nif everything in nature is living, and if we ourselves are simply its most self-conscious representatives, the function of the artist is to delve within himself, and above all to delve within the dark and unconscious forces which move within him, and to bring these to consciousness by the most agonising and violent internal struggle.\n\nFichte was very critical of the opposition set up in Schelling's \"Naturphilosophie\" to his own conception of \"Wissenschaftslehre\". In that debate, Hegel then intervened, largely supporting his student friend Schelling, with the work usually called his \"Differenzschrift\", the \"Differenz des Fichteschen und Schellingschen Systems der Philosophie\" (The Difference Between Fichte's and Schelling's System of Philosophy); a key publication in his own philosophical development, his first book, it was published in September 1801.\n\nSchelling's Absolute was left with no other function than that of removing all the differences which give form to thought. The criticisms of Fichte, and more particularly of Hegel (in the Preface to the \"Phenomenology of Spirit\"), pointed to a defect in the conception of the Absolute as mere featureless identity. It was ridiculed by Hegel as \"the night in which all cows are black.\"\n\nIgnaz Paul Vitalis Troxler, a follower of Schelling, later broke with him. He came to the view that the Absolute in nature and mind is beyond the intellect and reason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14358285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14358285", "title": "Neoplatonism and Christianity", "text": "Neoplatonism and Christianity\n\nNeoplatonism was a major influence on Christian theology throughout Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages in the West. This was due to St. Augustine of Hippo, who was influenced by the early Neoplatonists Plotinus and Porphyry, as well as the works of the Christian writer Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, who was influenced by later Neoplatonists, such as Proclus and Damascius.\n\nCertain central tenets of Neoplatonism served as a philosophical interim for the Christian theologian Augustine of Hippo on his journey from dualistic Manichaeism to Christianity. As a Manichee, Augustine had held that evil has substantial being and that God is made of matter; when he became a Neoplatonist, he changed his views on these things. As a Neoplatonist, and later a Christian, Augustine believed that evil is a privation of good and that God is not material. Perhaps more importantly, the emphasis on mystical contemplation as a means to directly encounter God or the One, found in the writings of Plotinus and Porphyry, deeply affected Augustine. He reports at least two mystical experiences in his Confessions which clearly follow the Neoplatonic model. According to his own account of his important discovery of 'the books of the Platonists' in \"Confessions\" Book 7, Augustine owes his conception of both God and the human soul as incorporeal substance to Neoplatonism.\n\nWhen writing his treatise 'On True Religion' several years after his 387 baptism, Augustine's Christianity was still tempered by Neoplatonism, but he eventually decided to abandon Neoplatonism altogether in favor of a Christianity based on his own reading of Scripture.\n\nMany other Christians were influenced by Neoplatonism, especially in their identifying the Neoplatonic One, or God, with Yahweh. The most influential of these would be Origen, who potentially took classes from Ammonius Saccas (but this is not certain because there may have been a different philosopher, now called Origen the pagan, at the same time), and the late 5th century author known as Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite. \n\nNeoplatonism also had links with Gnosticism, which Plotinus rebuked in his ninth tractate of the second \"Enneads\": \"Against Those That Affirm The Creator of The Kosmos and The Kosmos Itself to Be Evil\" (generally known as \"Against The Gnostics\"). \n\nDue to their belief being grounded in Platonic thought, the Neoplatonists rejected Gnosticism's vilification of Plato's demiurge, the creator of the material world or cosmos discussed in the Timaeus. Although Neoplatonism has been referred to as orthodox Platonic philosophy by scholars like Professor John D. Turner, this reference may be due in part to Plotinus' attempt to refute certain interpretations of Platonic philosophy, through his Enneads. Plotinus believed the followers of gnosticism had corrupted the original teachings of Plato.\n\nDespite the influence this philosophy had on Christianity, Justinian I would hurt later Neoplatonism by ordering the closure of the refounded Academy of Athens in 529.\n\nPseudo-Dionysius proved significant for both the Byzantine and Roman branches of Christianity. His works were translated into Latin by John Scotus Eriugena in the 9th century.\n\nFrom the days of the Early Church until the present, the Orthodox Church has made positive selective use of ancient Greek philosophy, particularly Socrates, Plato, Aristotle and the Stoics. For example, the term ‘logos’ (Greek Λόγος ) originated with Heraclitus and meant reason or thought. In the Christian context, Logos takes on a deeper meaning and becomes a name for the second person of the Trinity. The writer and theologian Gregory Palamas gives four distinct meanings for the term ‘logos’. The most important principle to keep in mind is that early Christianity developed in a Greek milieu and a common vocabulary was used in philosophical, spiritual and theological writing. However, the meanings of words sometimes evolved along different lines. In other cases, philosophical ideas and concepts were sometimes adapted and changed by Christian writers. Any exegetical endeavor trying to unravel the influence of Neo-Platonic thought on Christian theology needs to keep these principles in mind. One should also note that philosophy was used quite differently in the Eastern and Western theological traditions. \n\nThe writings attributed to Dionysius the Areopagite are among the most enigmatic works of late antiquity. Byzantine scholars such as Gregory Palamas cited Dionysius especially in matters of Mystical Theology such as theoria, the divine energies and the unknowability of God. At present, modern theologians and philosophers are still debating whether Dionysius was a Neo-Platonist with Christian influences or a Christian writer with Neo-Platonic influences. Among Orthodox scholars, the later view seems to be shared by such writers as Andrew Louth and Vladimir Lossky. However, other Orthodox scholars such as John Meyendorff believe that the Neo-Platonism of Dionysius exerted both positive and negative influences on Orthodox theology. Meyendorff maintains that Dionysius has led to some confusion in the areas of liturgical and ecclesiological formulations. \n\nMarsilio Ficino, who translated Plotinus, Proclus, as well as Plato's complete works into Latin, was the central figure of a major Neoplatonist revival in the Renaissance. His friend, Giovanni Pico della Mirandola was also a major figure in this movement. Both were students of Jewish mystical Kabbalah, which was heavily influenced by Neoplatonism. Renewed interest in Plotinian philosophy contributed to the rational theology and philosophy of the \"Cambridge Platonist\" circle (B. Whichcote, R. Cudworth, J. Smith, H. More, etc.). Renaissance Neoplatonism also overlapped with or graded into various forms of Christian esotericism.\n\nChristoplatonism is a term used to refer to a dualism opined by Plato, which influenced the Church, which holds spirit is good but matter is evil. According to author Randy Alcorn, Christoplatonism directly \"contradicts the Biblical record of God calling everything He created good.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28833829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28833829", "title": "Nile Valley Civilizations", "text": "Nile Valley Civilizations\n\nThe term Nile Valley Civilizations is sometimes used in Afrocentrism or Pan-Africanism to group a number of interrelated and interlocking, regionally distinct cultures that formed along the length of the Nile Valley from its headwaters in Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan to its mouth in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nIntroduced around 1970, it was popularized by Ivan Van Sertima in the 1980s and saw wide use in Afrocentric publications during the 1990s, e.g. \nFestus Ugboaja Ohaegbulam, \"Towards an understanding of the African experience from historical and contemporary perspectives\", University Press of America (1990); Runoko Rashidi, \"Introduction to the study of African clasical [sic] civilizations\" (1992), Walter Arthur McCray, \"The Black Presence in the Bible: Discovering the Black and African Identity of Biblical Persons and Nations\", Urban Ministries Inc, (1995), etc.\n"}
{"id": "35588880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35588880", "title": "Peter Gordon (historian)", "text": "Peter Gordon (historian)\n\nPeter E. Gordon is an American intellectual historian. The Amabel B. James Professor of History at Harvard University, Gordon focuses on continental philosophy and modern German and French thought, with particular emphasis on the philosopher Martin Heidegger, continental philosophy during the interwar crisis, and most recently, secularization and social thought in the twentieth century.\n\nBorn in Seattle, Washington, Peter Gordon was the son of Sunnie and Milton Gordon. Milton Gordon (1930-2005) was a biochemist who attended University of Minnesota and the University of Illinois, earning his Ph.D. at 23 and joining the faculty at the University of Washington in 1959, focusing on plant genetics. Peter Gordon received his BA from Reed College (1988) after a stint at the University of Chicago. He studied with Martin Jay at University of California, Berkeley, from which he received his PhD (1997).\n\nGordon spent two years (1998 - 2000) at the Society of Fellows in the Liberal Arts at Princeton University before joining the faculty at Harvard in 2000. In 2006 he became a member of Harvard's permanent faculty, and in 2005 he received the Phi Beta Kappa Award for Excellence in Teaching.\n\nGordon's first book, \"Rosenzweig and Heidegger, Between Judaism and German Philosophy\" (University of California Press, 2003), about Martin Heidegger and the German-Jewish philosopher Franz Rosenzweig, won the Salo W. Baron Prize from the Academy for Jewish Research for Best First Book, the Goldstein-Goren Prize for Best Book in Jewish Philosophy, and the Morris D. Forkosch Prize from the Journal of the History of Ideas for Best Book in Intellectual History.\n\nIn \"\" (Harvard University Press, 2010), Gordon reconstructs the famous 1929 debate between Heidegger and Ernst Cassirer at Davos, Switzerland, demonstrating its significance as a point of rupture in Continental thought that implicated all the major philosophical movements of the day. \"Continental Divide\" was awarded the Jacques Barzun Prize from the American Philosophical Society in 2010.\n\nGordon's most recent monograph, \"Adorno and Existence\" (Harvard University Press, 2016), reinterprets Adorno's philosophy by looking at the critical theorist's encounters with existentialism and phenomenology.\n\nGordon sits on the editorial boards of \"Modern Intellectual History\", \"The Journal of the History of Ideas\", and \"New German Critique\". He is co-founder and co-chair of the Harvard Colloquium for Intellectual History\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29967255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29967255", "title": "Richard Susskind", "text": "Richard Susskind\n\nRichard Susskind OBE FRSE (born 28 March 1961) is a British author, speaker, and independent adviser to international professional firms and national governments. He is the IT Adviser to the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, holds professorships at the University of Oxford, Gresham College and Strathclyde University, is a past Chair of the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information and is the President of the Society for Computers and Law. \n\nSusskind has specialised in legal technology since the early 1980s, has authored 9 books and is a regular columnist at \"The Times\" newspaper. Susskind has more recently furthered his research to cover the professions more generally and his latest book, co-authored with Daniel Susskind, his son, predicts the decline of today's professions and describes the people and systems that will replace them. They argue that the current professions are antiquated and no longer affordable and explain how 'increasingly capable systems' will fundamentally change the way that professional expertise is shared. They propose 6 models for producing and distributing expertise in society.\n\nSusskind chairs the UK Civil Justice Council’s Advisory Group on Online Dispute Resolution, which published a report in February 2015 recommending the establishment of Her Majesty’s Online Courts (HMOC). The report recommends HMOC consist of 3 tiers, Online Evaluation, Online Facilitation and Online Judges. According to the report, the benefits of HMOC would be an increase in access to justice and substantial savings in the cost of the court system.\n\n1992 – Honorary Member, Society for Computers and Law\n2000 – OBE, for services to IT in the Law and to the Administration of Justice\n2001 – Honorary Fellow of Law Faculty, Durham University\n2005 – Honorary Professor, Gresham College, London\n\n1992 – Fellow, Royal Society of Arts\n1997 – Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh\n1997 – Fellow, the British Computer Society\n\nRichard Susskind is married to Michelle. They have three children: Daniel, Jamie and Alexandra. Daniel Susskind, his co-author of \"The Future of the Professions\", is an economics lecturer at Balliol College Oxford; Jamie is a barrister and the author of Future Politics, which also examines the future of technology; Alexandra studies the intersection between future technology and faith.\n\n"}
{"id": "30206273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30206273", "title": "Robert Brisart", "text": "Robert Brisart\n\nRobert Brisart (29 October 1953 – 25 February 2015, Louvain-la-Neuve), was a Belgian philosopher. He was professor at the University of Luxembourg, and at the Facultés Universitaires Saint-Louis in Brussels. His works mainly focus on Husserl's phenomenology. He also published on the comparison between analytic philosophy and phenomenology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1823668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823668", "title": "Roger J. Traynor", "text": "Roger J. Traynor\n\nRoger John Traynor (February 12, 1900 – May 14, 1983) served as the 23rd Chief Justice of California from 1964 to 1970, and as an Associate Justice from 1940 to 1964. A nationally respected jurist, Traynor's 30-year career as California's 77th Justice coincided with tremendous demographic, social, and governmental growth in California and in the United States of America, and was marked by a belief (in the words of his biographer, G. Edward White) that \"the increased presence of government in American life was a necessary and beneficial phenomenon.\"\n\nTraynor was born and raised in Park City, Utah, then a hardscrabble mining town, at the turn of the century by Felix and Elizabeth Traynor. His parents were impoverished Irish immigrants from Hilltown in Ireland.\n\nIn 1919, upon the advice of a high school teacher, he entered the University of California, Berkeley, though he had only $500 in savings to finance his college education. Fortunately, he won a scholarship at the end of his first year due to his excellent grades, and went on to earn a B.A. in 1923, an M.A. in 1924, and a Ph.D. in 1926; all these degrees were in political science. He also earned a J.D. from Boalt Hall in 1927. He earned the two latter degrees at the same time, while also teaching undergraduates and serving as editor-in-chief of the \"California Law Review\". He was subsequently admitted to the State Bar of California that same year.\n\nAt Boalt Hall, Traynor wrote groundbreaking articles on taxation, while serving as editor-in-chief of the \"California Law Review\", and later became a full-time professor in 1936. He also acted as a consultant to the California State Board of Equalization from 1932 to 1940, and to the United States Department of the Treasury from 1937 to 1940. He took a leave of absence from the University in 1933 to work full-time for the Board of Equalization, and another leave in 1937 to help the Treasury Department draft the Revenue Act of 1938.\n\nBefore the Great Depression, nearly all California governmental functions were funded \"only\" through a general property tax on both real and personal property. This proved unworkable when property values collapsed. Through his work for the Board of Equalization, Traynor was responsible for creating much of California's modern tax regime, including the vehicle registration fee (1933), sales tax (1933), income tax (1935), use tax (1935), corporate income tax (1937), and fuel tax (1937). He served as the first administrator of the California sales tax and supervised its deployment across 200,000 retailers.\n\nIn January 1940, he started working part-time as a Deputy Attorney General under California Attorney General Earl Warren (who later became Chief Justice of the United States). He also started serving as Acting Dean of Boalt Hall, UC Berkeley's law school.\n\nOn July 31, 1940, Traynor was nominated to the Supreme Court of California by Governor Culbert Olson. He was unanimously confirmed by the Qualifications Committee on August 13 and was sworn in the same day. In December 1940, he was retained by the voters in the election. In August 1964, Chief Justice Phil S. Gibson stepped down from the bench, and Governor Pat Brown appointed Traynor to the post.\n\nTraynor has generally been viewed by the American legal community as the single greatest judge in the history of the California judiciary, and one of the greatest judges in the history of the United States. His obituary in the \"New York Times\" noted that \"Traynor was often called one of the greatest judicial talents never to sit on the United States Supreme Court.\"\n\nHis 1948 opinion in \"Perez v. Sharp\" was the first instance of a state supreme court striking down a statute prohibiting miscegenation. Traynor also wrote a 1952 opinion that abolished the defense of recrimination in the context of divorce and paved the way for the social revolution of no-fault divorce. But his most significant and well-known contribution to contemporary American law is probably his 1963 creation of true strict liability in product liability cases. An earlier generation of judges had cautiously experimented with legal fictions like warranties to avoid leaving severely injured plaintiffs without any recourse. Traynor simply threw those away and imposed strict liability as a matter of public policy.\nTo those skeptical of government's power to redress social wrongs, Traynor's extraordinary work is notable for the degree to which it asserted the judiciary's power to resolve difficult issues of public policy, and to redefine the boundaries of corporate and governmental liability. In his biography of Traynor, White wrote: \"If California was a testing ground for governmental theories of modern liberalism, Traynor was an architect of a judicial role compatible with the activities of the modern liberal state.\"\n\nDuring his long and distinguished career, Traynor authored more than 900 opinions, and he gained a reputation as the nation's leading state court judge. During his tenure, the decisions of the Supreme Court of California became the most frequently cited by all other state courts in the nation. Several of Traynor's decisions were majority opinions that transformed California from a conservative and somewhat repressive state into a progressive, innovative jurisdiction in the forefront of American law.\n\nTraynor was also noted for the quality of his writing and reasoning, and was honored during his lifetime with membership in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (a rare honor for a judge). Many of his opinions are still mandatory reading for American law students. Also, Traynor did not uniformly join all opinions that could be characterized as \"liberal\" or \"progressive\" during his time on the Court; for example, he filed a two-sentence dissent in the landmark case of \"Dillon v. Legg\" (1968), which was a major step towards the modern tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.\n\nThe liberal tendencies of much of Traynor's work has since made him the subject of extensive criticism from American libertarians and conservatives, and tort reformers have often grouped Traynor together with Earl Warren as examples of judicial activists. For example, the conservative magazine \"National Review\" attacked Traynor's reasoning in the Pacific Gas and Electric Company case (\"Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas Drayage Co.\", 69 Cal. 2d 33 (1968)) in a 1991 cover story.\n\nIn 1998, \"Regulation\" (the Cato Institute's journal) published a harsh critique of the California tort law system by Stephen Hayward. He claimed that \"rather than protecting life, liberty, and property, [it] has ... become a threat to these.\" In blunt language, Hayward identified Roger Traynor's liberalizing influence on the Court's view of liability as \"the first breach\":\n\nIn a 1966 essay addressed to both the legal community of his time and future generations, Traynor defended his judicial philosophy:\n\nOn January 2, 1970, Traynor announced his retirement in order to avoid losing eligibility for retirement benefits under a California law that stripped judges of most benefits if they chose to remain on the bench past age 70. He became chairman of the National News Council, concerned with freedom of the press. Afterwards, he retired to Berkeley and subsequently died there in his home from cancer.\n\nIn July 1983, the \"California Law Review\" gave over all its space in issue 4, volume 71 to publishing eloquent tributes to Justice Traynor from several esteemed judges, law professors, and politicians, including Warren Burger, Henry Friendly, and Edmund G. Brown.\n\nOn August 23, 1933, Traynor married Madeleine Emilie Lackman, a woman who shared his love of learning: she already held a M.A. in political science from UC Berkeley and would go on to earn a J.D. in 1956. They had three sons: Michael, Joseph, and Stephen. Michael followed his father into law; he attended Harvard Law School, became a partner with Cooley Godward Kronish LLP, and has served as president of The American Law Institute.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39578486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39578486", "title": "Santa Fe Yoga Festival", "text": "Santa Fe Yoga Festival\n\nSanta Fe Yoga Festival is an annual three-day yoga festival hosted in the city of Santa Fe, New Mexico. It was founded in 2012 by Kurt Young. Founding members include Pamela Serna and Kurt Young. The first festival was held in 2014 at the world-famous Bishops lodge in Santa Fe, NM. It had 40 yoga presenters and 108 classes ( this number is the equivalent of 108 beads on a mala). The music was presented by The Joey Lugassy Band. At the event, the movie \"Awake\" was premiered. \nDavid Frawley gave the invocation to commence the event.It was attended by 750 people.\nThe second annual event was held at the Scottish Rite Temple in Santa Fe, NM. it featured the musical works of Michael Franti and Grace Potter. Notable yoga presenters included Tias Little, Surya Little and Mark Whitwell and Katchie Ananda.\nThere were 40 yoga presenters in 2015. The event was attended by ( music, yoga or related events) 3500 people. \nThe Third Festival was held at Scottish Rite temple and the Santa Fe Plaza. Over 4500 people attended the event. Featured Yoga instructors were Tias and Surya Little, Katchie Ananda, Jennifer Elliot. Music performed by many bands, the Main musical Act was.\n"}
{"id": "37847332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37847332", "title": "Santiago Kovadloff", "text": "Santiago Kovadloff\n\nSantiago Kovadloff (December 14, 1942) is an Argentine essayist, poet, translator, anthologist of Portuguese literature and author of children's stories. He was born in Buenos Aires where he graduated in Philosophy at the University of Buenos Aires with a thesis on the thought of Martin Buber called \"The hearer of God\". Some of his works were translated into Hebrew, Portuguese, German, Italian and French and others have spread throughout Spain.\n\nHonorary professor at the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid and Doctor Honoris Causa by the Universidad de Ciencias Empresariales y Sociales(UCES). Since 1992 a member of the Royal Spanish Academy, since 1998 member of the Academia Argentina de Letras since 2010 by the National Academy of Moral and Political Sciences and the National Academy of Journalism. Member of the Court of Ethics of the Jewish Community of Argentina until dissolved.\n\nHe works professionally as a philosophy professor and lecturer. Is permanent collaborator of the newspaper La Nacion. Besides, he lined up a trio of music and poetry with Marcelo Moguilevsky and César Lerner.\n\nHe edited the first complete Spanish version of\" Book of Disquiet\" (2000), Fernando Pessoa, and the Fictions\" Interlude\" (2004). Portuguese to Spanish, translated texts of poets Carlos Drummond de Andrade, Manuel Bandeira, Ferreira Gullar, João Cabral de Melo Neto and Murilo Mendes, Vinicius de Moraes, Mário de Andrade, Manuel Bandeira, Murilo Mendes, Carlos Drummond de Andrade, João Cabral de Melo Neto, Machado de Assis, João Guimarães Rosa, Noemia de Souza, Mário de Sá-Carneiro.\n\nIn the 1980s he translated into Portuguese numerous Argentine poets and many compositions of Joan Manuel Serrat and, a decade earlier, one of the shows of the Argentine musical comedy set Les Miserables, presented in São Paulo, Brazil, in 1975.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2688441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2688441", "title": "Serge Moscovici", "text": "Serge Moscovici\n\nSerge Moscovici (June 14, 1925 in Brăila, Romania as \"Srul Herş Moscovici\" – November 15, 2014 in Paris) was a Romanian-born French social psychologist, director of the \"Laboratoire Européen de Psychologie Sociale\" (\"European Laboratory of Social Psychology\"), which he co-founded in 1974 at the \"Maison des sciences de l'homme\" in Paris. He was a member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts and Officer of the \"Légion d'honneur\", as well as a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and honorary member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Moscovici's son, Pierre Moscovici, is the current European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs, Taxation and Customs.\n\nBorn in Brăila to Jewish parents who were grain merchants, Moscovici frequently relocated, together with his father, spending time in Cahul, Galaţi, and Bucharest. (Later he would indicate that his stay in Basarabia had contributed to his image of a homeland.) From an early age Moscovici suffered the effects of anti-semitic discrimination: in 1938, he was expelled from a Bucharest high school on the basis of newly-issued anti-semitic legislation. In later years he commented on the impact of the Iron Guard, and expressed criticism for intellectuals associated with it (Emil Cioran and Mircea Eliade).\n\nMoscovici trained as a mechanic at the Bucharest vocational school \"Ciocanul\". Faced with an ideological choice between Zionism and communism, he opted for the latter, and, in 1939, joined the then-illegal Romanian Communist Party, being introduced by a clandestine activist whom he knew by the pseudonym \"Kappa\".\nDuring World War II Moscovici witnessed the Iron Guard-instigated Bucharest Pogrom in January 1941. Later the Ion Antonescu régime interned him in a forced-labor camp, where, together with other persons of his age, he worked on construction teams until freed by the Soviet Red Army in 1944. During those years he taught himself French and educated himself by reading philosophical works (including those of Baruch Spinoza and René Descartes).\n\nSubsequently, Moscovici travelled extensively, notably visiting Palestine, Germany and Austria. During the late stages of World War II he met Isidore Isou, the founder of lettrism, with whom he founded the artistic and literary review \"Da\" towards the end of 1944 (\"Da\" was quickly censored). Refusing promotion on the basis of political affiliation at a time when the Communist Party participated in Romania's governments, he became instead a welder in the large Bucharest factory owned by Nicolae Malaxa.\n\nInitially welcoming Soviet occupation, Moscovici grew increasingly disillusioned with communist politics, and noted the incidence of anti-Semitism among Red Army soldiers. As the communist regime was taking over and the Cold War started, he helped Zionist dissidents cross the border illegally. For this, he was involved in a 1947 trial held in Timişoara, and decided to leave Romania definitively. Choosing clandestine immigration, he arrived in France a year later, having passed through Hungary and Austria, and having spent time in a refugee camp in Italy.\n\nIn Paris, helped by a refugee fund, he studied psychology at the Sorbonne while employed by an industrial enterprise. At the time, Moscovici became close to Paris-based writers, including the Romanian-born Jewish Paul Celan and . In reference to himself, Celan, and Moscovici, Chiva later recalled: \"For us, people on the Left, but who had fled communism, the first period in Paris, in a capital where the intellectual environments were developing under full-scale Stalinist enthusiasm, was very harsh. We were caught between a rock and a hard place: on one side, the French university environment who saw us as «fascists». [...] On the other, the Romanian exiles, most of all the nationalist students, when not outright on the far right, who did not shy away from denouncing us as communist «moles» in the pay of Bucharest or Moscow.\"\n\nMoscovici's 1961 thesis (\"La psychanalyse, son image, son public\"), directed by the psychoanalyst Daniel Lagache, explored the social representations of psychoanalysis in France. Moscovici also studied epistemology and history of sciences with philosopher Alexandre Koyré. During the 1960s Princeton University's Institute for Advanced Study invited him to the United States; he worked at Stanford University and at Yale before returning to Paris to teach at the \"École pratique des hautes études\". Serge Moscovici served as a visiting professor at the New School in New York City, at the Rousseau Institute in Geneva, as well as at the \"Université catholique de Louvain\" and at the University of Cambridge.\n\nBy 1968, together with Brice Lalonde and others, he became involved in green politics, and ran in elections for the office of Mayor of Paris for what later became \"Les Verts\". A doctor \"honoris causa\" of several universities, Moscovici received the Balzan Prize in 2003 for social psychology.\n\nIn 1997, Serge Moscovici authored an autobiographical essay titled \"Chronique des années égarées\" (\"Chronicle of the Mislaid Years\"). It was translated into Romanian as \"Cronica anilor risipiţi\" (published by Polirom in 1999).\n\nIn commemoration of his elaborate and significant contribution to the world of psychology and society in general, several awards, medals, lectures have been established.Notable among these are:\n\n1.Serge Moscovici Medal awarded by the European Association of Social Psychology(EASP)\n\n2.\"Serge Moscovici\" Values-Based Leadership Award by the Aspen Institute Romania.\n\nHis research focus was on group psychology and he began his career by investigating the way knowledge is reformulated as groups take hold of it, distorting it from its original form. His theory of \"social representations\" is now widespread in understanding this process of cultural \"Chinese whispers\". Influenced by Gabriel Tarde, he later criticized American research into majority influence (conformity) and instead investigated the effects of minority influence, where the opinions of a small group influence those of a larger one. He also researched the dynamics of group decisions and consensus-forming.\n\nMoscovici claimed that majority influence in many ways was misleading – if the majority was indeed all-powerful, we would all end up thinking the same. Drawing attention to the works of Gabriel Tarde, he pointed to the fact that most major social movements have been started by individuals and small groups (e.g. Christianity, Buddhism, the Suffragette movement, Nazism, etc.) and that without an outspoken minority, we would have no innovation or social change.\n\nThe study he is most famous for, \"Influences of a consistent minority on the responses of a majority in a colour perception task\", is now seen as one of the defining investigations into the effects of minority influence:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11013556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11013556", "title": "Shakyasimha", "text": "Shakyasimha\n\nShakyasimha a (Tib. Sakyasenge). The symbol is a lion, as king of all beasts. the 'Lion of the Sakya Clan'. The lion is therefore one of the prime symbols of Buddhism itself. Like a Buddha, Padmasambhava as the Second Buddha, is also called Shakyasimha. The 'lotus-born' guru Padmakara (Tib. Pema Jungne, also Padmasambhava), who was revered throughout the Himalayan world as Second Buddha, introduced the most advanced meditative practices of Mahayoga and Atiyoga from Oddiyana and India into Tibet and Bhutan during the eighth century. On the 10th day of the second lunar month, guru Padmakara received two names: Shakyasimha and Matiman Vararuci (Loden Chokse).\n\n"}
{"id": "20041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20041", "title": "Shoma Morita", "text": "Shoma Morita\n\nMorita Masatake (1874-1938), also read as Morita Shoma (森田 正馬), was a contemporary of Sigmund Freud and the founder of Morita therapy, a branch of clinical psychology strongly influenced by Zen Buddhism. In his capacity as the head of psychiatry for a large Tokyo hospital, Morita began developing his methods while working with sufferers of \"shinkeishitsu\", or anxiety disorders with a hypochondriac base.\n\nAccording to Morita, how a person feels is important as a and as an indicator for the present moment, but is uncontrollable: we don't create feelings, feelings happen to us. Since feelings do not cause our behavior, we can coexist with unpleasant feelings while still taking constructive action.\n\nThe essence of Morita's method maybe summarized in three rules: Accept all your feelings, know your purpose(s), and do what needs to be done. When once asked what shy people should do, Morita replied, \"Sweat.\"\n\n\nPerhaps most notable of Morita's foreign followers is David K. Reynolds. Dr. Reynolds synthesized parts of Morita therapy along with the practice of Naikan into Constructive Living, an educational method intended for English-speaking Westerners. Constructive Living has since become extremely popular in Japan. Fritz Perls spent a week in a Morita Hospital in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "21104179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21104179", "title": "Shōfuku-ji (Fukuoka)", "text": "Shōfuku-ji (Fukuoka)\n\n"}
{"id": "15766957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15766957", "title": "Sunim", "text": "Sunim\n\nSunim is the Korean title for a Buddhist monk or Buddhist nun. It is considered respectful to refer to senior monks or nuns in Korea as \"Kun sunim\". In most Korean temples, a middle-aged monk assumes the role of a \"juji sunim\", who serves administrative functions. The eldest sunim is typically seen as a symbolic leader of the younger sunims.\n\n"}
{"id": "39858593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39858593", "title": "The Song of the Sannyasin", "text": "The Song of the Sannyasin\n\nThe Song of the Sannyasin is a poem of thirteen verses written by Swami Vivekananda. Vivekananda composed the poem in July 1895 when he was delivering a series of lectures to a groups of selected disciples at the Thousand Island Park, New York. In the poem he defined the ideals of \"Sannyasa\" or monastic life.\n\nIn the beginning of 1895, American disciples of Vivekananda requested him to organize a special session of lectures throughout the summer. Though Vivekananda was very tired at this time after multiple long sessions of public and private lectures, he assented. From mid-June to early August 1895, Vivekananda delivered a series of lectures to a group of selected disciples at the Thousand Island Park, New York.\n\nIn this period, sometime in July 1895 Vivekananda wrote \"The Song of the Sannyasin\".\n\nIn the poem Vivekananda glorified Hindu concepts on \"Sannyasa\" and defined the ideals of monastic life. For centuries it has been a tradition in India to revere \"Sannyasi\"s and encourage people (especially the younger ones) to work for self-realization God realization. According to Hindu beliefs, 'Sannyasa\" is the best path of life one can take. In these 13 short poems, Vivekananda discusses the concept, beliefs and ideals of \"Sannyasa\" or monastic life.\n\nMohit Chakrabarti in his book \"Swami Vivekananda: A Poetic Visionary\", called these poems as Vivekananda's religious introspection. Chakrabarti told— \"Quote apart from the utilitarian and segmentary approach to religion more often than not prone to achieving a platform of materialistic superiority, the religion that Vivekananda highlights here is one of emancipation of man by means of sustained devotion to and involvement in knowledge, truth and freedom.\"\n\n\nAccording to Kalpana Mohapatra, \"The Song of the Sannyasin\" is the Bible of Bengal. This is also considered as a source of inspiration for Hindu monks, specially the monks of Ramakrishna Order find solace, inspiration and guidance from these poems. Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami decided to renounce the world after reading this poem in his teenage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2954899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2954899", "title": "Vasily Nalimov", "text": "Vasily Nalimov\n\nVasiliy Vasilievich Nalimov (Васи́лий Васи́льевич Нали́мов; 4 November 1910 – 19 January 1997) was a Russian philosopher and humanist and wrote on Transpersonal Psychology. His main areas of research were the philosophy of probability and its biological, mathematical, and linguistic manifestations. He also studied the roles of gnosticism and mysticism in science. Thompson (1993) summarizes Nalimov as: \"...philosopher, educator, devoted husband, mathematician, dissident, writer, and (although he may deny it) visionary\".\n\nNalimov has a reputation as a founder of the area of Scientometrics, as he coined the Russian term \"Naukometriya\" in 1969, together with Mulchenko.\nHe was not proposing the concept of citation index, as sometimes claimed. That idea reaches much further back (1873) and was first professionally used in the area of law to look up related cases Shepard's Citations. It was introduced on a large scale for science first by Eugene Garfield.\n\nNalimov's father, Vasily Petrovich, obtained a formal medical degree in Moscow, was an anthropologist and ethnographer and was considered a shaman by his community. Nalimov's mother, Nadezhda Ivanovna, was among the first group of women to graduate as physicians in Russia.\n\nNalimov was a co-worker of the mathematician Andrey Kolmogorov. Rustum Roy held Nalimov in high regard and sponsored some of his works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18589768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589768", "title": "Vergilius Ferm", "text": "Vergilius Ferm\n\nVergilius Ture Anselm Ferm (1896 – February 4, 1974 in Wooster, Ohio) was the Compton Professor of Philosophy at the College of Wooster.\n\n"}
{"id": "8913769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8913769", "title": "Yeridat ha-dorot", "text": "Yeridat ha-dorot\n\nYeridat ha-dorot (Hebrew: ירידת הדורות), meaning literally \"the decline of the generations\", or nitkatnu ha-dorot (נתקטנו הדורות), meaning \"the diminution of the generations\", is a concept in classical Rabbinic Judaism and contemporary Orthodox Judaism expressing a belief in the intellectual inferiority of subsequent, and contemporary Torah scholarship and spirituality in comparison to that of the past. It is held to apply to the transmission of the \"Revealed\" (\"nigleh\") aspects of Torah study, embodied in the legal and homiletic Talmud, and other mainstream rabbinic literature scholarship. Its reasoning derives from the weaker claim to authoritative traditional interpretation of scripture, in later stages of a lengthening historical chain of transmission from the original revelation of the Torah at Mount Sinai, and the codification of the Oral Torah in the Talmud. This idea provides the basis to the designated Rabbinic Eras from the Tannaim and Amoraim of the Talmud, to the subsequent Gaonim, Rishonim and Acharonim. Additionally, it has an extra metaphysical explanation in Kabbalah, regarding lower levels of souls in succeeding generations.\n\nHowever, Kabbalah limits the effect of \"Yeridat ha-dorot\" only to \"nigleh\". In contrast, the \"Concealed\" (\"nistar\") aspects of Torah, embodied in Jewish mysticism, are identified with an opposite process of successively higher articulations of mystical thought as the process of history unfolds. The reasoning for this derives from the notion that Jewish mysticism progresses instead from successive new divine revelations to supreme mystics, as the only way to deepen its conceptual structures. This paradoxical dialectic relates in Kabbalistic terminology to descending immanent \"Vessels\", and successively higher transcendent \"Lights\" through the history of creation. In Jewish thought, deepening Talmudic and Rationalist enquiry broadens the physical application of Torah (vessels), while deepening Jewish mysticism draws down higher levels of illumination (light).\n\nOne of the first expressions of the idea appears in the Talmudic adage found in Shabbos 112b (Soncino):\nThe idea is found in many other classical Jewish sources, and underlies the reluctance of the Torah scholars in a particular generation to challenge the legal rulings of a previous generation. discusses the relationship between the principle of \"yeridat ha-dorot\" and the seemingly contrary principle of \"chate'u Yisrael\" (\"\"Israel sinned\",\" referring to a failure in transmission of the tradition), an idea invoked to explain cases where \"derash\" (exegetical interpretation) trumps \"peshat\" (plain reading) in order to restore original intent.\n\nRabbinic tradition divides its historical development into distinct eras. According to traditional interpretation, scholars in one era within Halachic development (legal codification of Jewish observance) do not challenge the rulings of previous-era scholars.\n\nChazal is an acronym for \"Chachameinu Zichronam Livracha\" (\"Our Sages may their memory be blessed\"). In Rabbinic writings this refers to all Sages of the Talmud and other Rabbinic literature commentators, from the times of the Second Temple of Jerusalem until the 6th century. Up until the end of the Savoraim era, Chazal had the authority to commentate the Torah according to the Talmudical Hermeneutics standards required by the law given to Moses at Sinai (The non written laws handed to Moses at Sinai). Nowadays, this authority is not delegated to the current generation's Sages, and thus the Torah can not be commentated on, in matters concerning the Halakha, if it is in contradiction to Chazal's commentary. Earlier on, up until the midst of the Tannaim era, when there was a Sanhedrin (a Jewish law court), Chazal had also the authority to decree predestinations and to enact new religious regulations, in any matter they saw fit, concerning issues that were not included in the written \"Torah\", or were not handed at Biblical Mount Sinai.\n\nRishonim (\"the first ones\") were the leading Rabbis and Poskim (Halachic decisors) who lived approximately during the 11th to 15th centuries, in the era before the writing of the Shulkhan Arukh (Code of Jewish Law) and following the Geonim. Rabbinic scholars subsequent to the Shulkhan Arukh are known as Acharonim (\"the latter ones\"). The distinction between Rishonim and Geonim is meaningful historically; in Halakha (Jewish Law) the distinction is less important. According to a widely held view in Orthodox Judaism, Acharonim generally cannot dispute the rulings of Rabbis of previous eras unless they find support of other Rabbis in previous eras. On the other hand, this view is not formally a part of Halakhah itself. Acharonim is a term used in Jewish law and history, to signify the leading Rabbis and Poskim living from roughly the 16th century to the present. The publication of the Shulkhan Arukh marks the transition from the era of the Rishonim to the Acharonim. The question of which prior rulings can and cannot be disputed has led to efforts to define which rulings are within the Acharonim era with precision. According to many Rabbis the Shulkhan Arukh is from an Acharon. Some hold that Rabbi Yosef Karo's Beit Yosef has the Halakhic status of a work of a Rishon, while his later Shulkhan Arukh has the status of a work of an Acharon.\n\nThe 18th century Vilna Gaon was one of the most influential Rabbinic authorities since the Middle Ages; although he is counted among the Acharonim, he is held by many authorities after him as belonging to the Rishonim.\n\nKabbalah tends to supports the Halachic notion of the Descent of the Generations, by relating it to a metaphysical structure of descending levels of souls in each subsequent generation. Through processes such as Gilgul (Reincarnation), all souls are held to derive from the original collective soul of Adam. As the Sephirot relate the powers of the soul metaphorically to the image of Man, so the souls of Israel derive from different aspects of Adam; supreme Tzadikim who lead the community from his \"head\", down to simple souls of his \"feet\". In this way, the latter generations when the \"Heels of the Messiah\" can be heard approaching, relate to their low souls from the level of Adam's \"Heel\".\n\nHowever, at the same time, Kabbalah tends to explain an opposite process of progressively increasing Divine Ohr (\"Light\"). This light may be said to increasingly illuminate creation in each subsequent generation. In relation to Jewish scholarship, this dialectic process is connected to the mystical concept of the Tzadik. While the en masse community of souls of Israel in each generation are lower, the most supreme Tzadikim of the generations are unaffected by this limitation. In traditional view, Talmudic and Halachic study (\"Nigleh\"-\"Revealed\" aspects of Judaism) uncovers new interpretations of previously revealed Scriptural and Rabbinic texts. Consequently, this scholarship is affected by diminishing authority of latter generations to disagree with earlier codification. However, Kabbalistic (\"Nistar\"-\"Concealed\") scholarship advances with successive new descriptive articulations, through a progressive process of revelation of new doctrines by select supreme Tzadikim. In this picture, \"Nigleh\", affected by Yeridot HaDorot, involves the ascent of human intellect up to God. The new articulations of \"Nistar\" by rare Tzadikim involve the descent of new, successively higher Divine intellect into man's conceptual understanding. Where Halacha descends generationally through time, Kabbalah ascends generationally.\n\nAccording to one Hasidic author, the three successive stages of mid-16th century Cordoveran Kabbalah, latter-16th century Lurianic Kabbalah, and 18th century Hasidic philosophy may be understood as three ascending levels of mystical perception and relationship to God in Kabbalah:\n\n\"There are three distinct stages in the historical revelation of Kabbalah. Each represents a conceptual approach to understanding Kabbalistic tradition. Each is identified with a particular historical figure. Rabbi Moshe Cordevero, also known as the Ramak; Rabbi Isaac Luria, popularly referred to as the holy Ari; and Rabbi Yisrael Baal Shem Tov. Each system of thought served to advance the evolution of Kabbalistic theory by providing new and more illuminating frameworks within which to organize the totality of Kabbalistic doctrine existing up to their time.\"\n\nIn ascending order:\n\nWhile Lurianic Kabbalah completed the full, transcendent structure of traditional Jewish metaphysics, this explanation places the Hasidic philosophical focus on Omnipresent Divine immanence as the culmination of Kabbalistic thought. Where Kabbalah remained restricted to elite circles, Hasidic Divine Unity could likewise offer the first popularisation of mysticism to both elite scholars and unlearned common folk, offering to each new soulful directions.\n\nThe concept of \"Yeridat ha-dorot\" is particularly influential in Haredi Judaism, which regards not only Halakha but even customs of old as possessing divine inspiration and wisdom which later generations cannot match. Modern Orthodox Judaism has a somewhat ambivalent approach to the concept, believing that classical positions can sometimes be re-examined in light of modern circumstances but deferentially, and in accordance with classical rules of interpretation, while embracing modern science and secular learning.\n\nThe Conservative movement is a pluralistic movement which accepts multiple positions about the degree of deference to tradition in contemporary thought and decision-making. The Conservative movement has not expressly rejected the concept of yeridat ha-dorot, though Conservative authorities may sometimes view modern concepts of morality as superior to ancient concepts.\n\nReform Judaism and Reconstructionist Judaism, as modern liberal movements, reject the whole idea as incompatible with progress, liberalism, and modernity.\n\n"}
{"id": "46412394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46412394", "title": "Ėrnest Lʹvovich Radlov", "text": "Ėrnest Lʹvovich Radlov\n\nĖrnest Lʹvovich Radlov (1854-1928) was a Russian neo-Kantian philosopher and historian of philosophy, a friend and editor of Vladimir Solovyov.\n\nRadlov introduced Thomas Masaryk to Russian philosophy in conversations over the summer of 1882.\n\n"}
