{"id": "13623817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13623817", "title": "12 month rule", "text": "12 month rule\n\nIn the field of taxation in the US, the 12 Month Rule refers to the capitalization of property or assets that provide only short-term benefits. The 12 Month Rule makes it unnecessary to capitalize the cost of purchase or production of anything with a useful life of less than a year, although it is not without exception. Prop. Reg. 1.263(a)-2(d)(4)(i) serves to codify the 12 Month Rule and the generally accepted view that capitalization is only required for costs related to the purchase or production of fixed assets that will continue to provide a benefit over the course of several years, or at least for a time significantly longer than the taxable year.\n"}
{"id": "16237368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16237368", "title": "ACCOBAMS", "text": "ACCOBAMS\n\nACCOBAMS, the Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans in the Black Sea,\nMediterranean Sea and contiguous Atlantic area is ‘a cooperative tool for the conservation of marine biodiversity in the Mediterranean and Black Seas’.\n\nACCOBAMS aims to reduce threats to cetaceans in Mediterranean and Black Sea waters and improve our knowledge of these animals, and is the first Agreement binding the countries in the two subregions, enabling them to work together on a matter of general interest. ACCOBAMS was concluded in the auspices of Convention on Migratory Species in 1996 and entered into force in 2001.\n\nThe Meeting of the Parties is the decision-making body of the Agreement. Ordinary sessions of the Meeting of the Parties occur at intervals of not more than three years, unless the Meeting of the Parties decides otherwise.\nThe United Nations, its Specialized Agencies, the International Atomic Energy Agency, any State not a Party to this Agreement, secretariats of other global and regional conventions or agreements concerned inter alia with the conservation of cetaceans, and regional or subregional fisheries management organizations with competence for species found temporarily or permanently resident in the Agreement area may be represented by observers in sessions of the Meeting of the Parties. .\n\nThe ACCOBAMS Permanent Secretariat performs the functions listed in Article IV of the Agreement. For example, it arranges and services the sessions of the Meeting of the Parties, facilitates co-operation between Parties and non-Party Range States, assists the Parties in the implementation of the Agreement, administers the budget. The Permanent Secretariat is hosted by the Principality of Monaco.\n\nBureau provides general policy guidance and operational and financial direction to the Agreement Secretariat and the Co-ordination Units concerning the implementation and promotion of the Agreement;\ncarries out, between sessions of the Meeting of the Parties, such interim activities on its behalf as may be necessary or assigned to it by the Meeting of the Parties;\nrepresents the Parties vis-à-vis the Government(s) of the host country (or countries) of the Agreement Secretariat and the Meeting of the Parties, the Depositary and other international organizations on matters relating to the Agreement and its secretariat.\nThe Bureau normally meets once per annum and provides a report on its activities for each session of the Meeting of the Parties.\n\nThe Scientific Committee of ACCOBAMS, composed of persons qualified as experts in cetacean conservation science, is an advisory body to the Meeting of the Parties. Its role and tasks are defined in the Article VII of the Agreement. The Scientific Committee usually meets every year. The meetings of the Committee provide an opportunity for the gathering of an increasingly large number of cetacean conservation experts from the Agreement area.\n\nAccording to the Agreement Text, \"The geographic scope of the Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the \"Agreement area\", is constituted by all the maritime waters of the Black Sea and the Mediterranean and their gulfs and seas, and the internal waters connected to or interconnecting these maritime waters, and of the Atlantic area contiguous to the Mediterranean Sea west of the Straits of Gibraltar.\nFor the purpose of the Agreement:\nthe Black Sea is bounded to the southwest by the line joining Capes Kelaga and Dalyan (Turkey);\nthe Mediterranean Sea is bounded to the east by the southern limits of the Straits of the Dardanelles between the lighthouses of Mehmetcik and Kumkale (Turkey) and to the west by the meridian passing through Cape Spartel lighthouse, at the entrance to the Strait of Gibraltar;\nthe contiguous Atlantic area west of the Strait of Gibraltar is bounded to the east by the meridian passing through Cape Spartel lighthouse and to the west by the line joining the lighthouses of Cape St. Vicente (Portugal) and Casablanca (Morocco).\n\nAs of 2013, 23 countries—out of 28 Range States—are Parties to ACCOBAMS. The five non-Parties are Bosnia-Herzegovina, Israel, the Russian Federation, Turkey, and the United Kingdom (the latter because of Gibraltar, which is a British overseas territory). The List of Parties (as of September 2011) with a date of accession is presented below.\n\n\nACCOBAMS Partners include Organisations and Institutions technically qualified in Cetacean Conservation playing a significant role in the relevant activities of the Agreement. The year when the partnership started is shown in the brackets.\n\n\nThe following species are protected by ACCOBAMS, according to the Annex I of the Treaty:\n\nINDICATIVE LIST OF CETACEANS OF THE BLACK SEA TO WHICH THIS AGREEMENT APPLIES:\nINDICATIVE LIST OF CETACEANS OF THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA AND THE CONTIGUOUS ATLANTIC AREA TO WHICH THIS AGREEMENT APPLIES:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1705199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705199", "title": "Agrarian law", "text": "Agrarian law\n\nAgrarian laws (from the Latin \"ager\", meaning \"land\") were laws among the Romans regulating the division of the public lands, or \"ager publicus\".\n\nVarious attempts to reform agrarian laws were part of the socio-political struggle between the patricians and plebeians known as the Conflict of the Orders.\n\nThere existed two kinds of land in ancient Rome: private and public land (\"ager publicus\"), which included common pasture. By the 2nd century BC, wealthy landowners had begun to dominate the agrarian areas of the republic by \"renting\" large tracts of public land and treating it as if it were private. This began to force out smaller, private farmers with competition; the farmers were forced to move to the cities for this and a number of other factors including battles making living in rural areas dangerous. Roman cities were not good places to attempt to get jobs; they were also dangerous, overcrowded and messy.\n\nProbably the earliest attempt at an agrarian law was in 486 BC. A peace treaty was entered into with the Hernici whereby they agreed to cede two-thirds of their land. Spurius Cassius Viscellinus, Roman consul for the third time, proposed to distribute that land, together with other public Roman land, amongst the Latin allies and the plebs. Cassius proposed a law to give effect to his proposal. Niebuhr suggests that the law sought to restore the law of Servius Tullius, the sixth King of Rome, strictly defining the portion of the patricians in the public land, dividing the remainder amongst the plebeians, and requiring that the tithe be levied from the lands possessed by the patricians.\n\nThe proposed law was opposed by the senators (some of whom it seemed were squatting on the public Roman land) and by the other consul Proculus Verginius Tricostus Rutilus. Their opposition to the law was also based on their concerns that Cassius was seeking to gain too much popularity.\n\nVerginius spoke publicly against the law, and the plebs became concerned that land was being given to the Latin allies, and also that Cassius might be seeking to pave the way to regal power. Verginius even suggested he would support the law if it was in favour only of Romans and not Rome's allies. To counter him, Cassius promised that the money raised from the Sicilian corn distribution be donated to the plebs, but they rejected this as a political bribe, and suspicion that Cassius was seeking regal power increased.\n\nIn 485 BC once Cassius had left office he was condemned and executed. Livy says that the method of his trial is uncertain. Livy's preferred version is that a public trial on the charge of high treason was held on the orders of the quaestores parricidii Kaeso Fabius and Lucius Valerius, at which Cassius was condemned by the people, and subsequently by public decree his house was demolished (being near the temple of Tellus). The alternative version is that Cassius' own father conducted a private trial (presumably exercising authority as pater familias, although Niebuhr argues that it was impossible that a man who had been thrice consul and twice triumphed should still be in his father's power.) and put his son to death, and subsequently dedicated his son's assets to the goddess Ceres, including by dedicating a statue to her with the inscription \"\"given from the Cassian family\". Dionysius states that he was hurled from the Tarpeian Rock.\n\nSome seem to have called for the execution of Cassius' sons also, but according to Dionysius, they were spared by the senate.\n\nCassius Dio expressed his belief in the consul's innocence.\n\nIn 159 BC the statue of Cassius erected on the spot of his house was melted down by the censors.\n\nPopular agitation for agrarian reform continued during 484 BC. And again in 481 and 480 BC, when the tribunes Spurius Licinius and Titus Pontificius respectively exhorted the plebs to refuse enrolment for military service as a means of encouraging agrarian reform, but the consuls and the other tribunes convinced the plebs otherwise.\n\nIn 476 BC the tribunes Quintus Considius and Titus Genucius successfully brought charges against Titus Menenius Lanatus, and in the following year the tribunes Lucius Caedicius and Titus Statius brought charges against Spurius Servilius but he was acquitted. Livy says the charges were motivated by agitation for agrarian reform.\n\nIn 473 BC, the tribune Gnaeus Genucius brought to trial the consuls of the previous year, Lucius Furius Medullinus and Gnaeus Manlius Vulso,for failing to appoint the decemvirs to allocate the public lands. However, on the day of the trial Genucius was found dead, and as a consequence the charges were dismissed.\n\nIn 470 BC the tribunes Marcus Duilius and Gnaeus Siccius brought to trial the consul of the previous year, Appius Claudius, a man who was hated by the people. The charge was that he had opposed the agrarian law. However he died before the trial. \n\nIn 469 BC tensions on account of the agrarian law threatened again, but foreign wars interrupted.\n\nTensions flared after the conclusion of the foreign conflicts, and as a consequence the plebeians refused to attend the consular elections for 468 BC. Once again conflict at Rome was interrupted by foreign war, which resulted in the consul Titus Quinctius Capitolinus Barbatus capturing the Volscian city of Antium south of Rome.\n\nIn 467 BC Tiberius Aemilius was elected consult for the second time, together with Quintus Fabius Vibulanus. Aemilius had previously been consul in 470 BC at the time of Claudius' trial, and had then been sympathetic to the plebeians' agrarian demands. According the plebeians sought to raise the issue again, hoping Aemilius would act in their interests. Indeed Aemilius was in favour of agrarian reform again, and thus incurred the odium of the patricians. However the tensions were resolved by Aemilius' colleague Fabius, who proposed a law that a Roman colony be planted at Antium, and land there be distributed amongst the plebeians. The measure was passed, and three men were appointed as commissioners to allocate the lands (triumviri coloniae deducendae). They were Titus Quinctius, the consul of the previous year who had captured Antium from the Volsci; Aulus Verginius Tricostus Caeliomontanus the consul of 469 BC; and Publius Furius Medullinus Fusus the consul of 472 BC. Livy reports that in fact few of the plebeians applied for allotment of land at Antium, however reports of conflict on account of the agrarian reforms were absent for many years thereafter.\n\nIn 133 BC, Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus, the tribune of the plebs, passed a series of laws attempting to reform the agrarian land laws; the laws limited the amount of public land one person could control, reclaimed public lands held in excess of this, and attempted to redistribute the land, for a small rent, to farmers now living in the cities.\n\nFurther reforms in 122 BC were attempted by Tiberius's brother, Gaius Sempronius Gracchus, including the expansion of the laws' area of influence to all of the colonies in Italy. These reforms, however, were not as successful due to massive unpopularity in the Italian provinces.\n\nBy 118 BC the sales limits and redistribution efforts had been abolished, and by 111 BC the laws were standardised, confirming the positions of many owners in Italy about their large tracts of land.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29473352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473352", "title": "Air Bridge Denial Program", "text": "Air Bridge Denial Program\n\nThe Air Bridge Denial (ABD) Program is an anti-narcotics program operated by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in Colombia and Peru. Starting in the 1990s, it targets traffickers transporting illicit drugs through the air by forcing down suspicious aircraft, using lethal force if necessary. The program was suspended in April 2001 when a legitimate civilian aircraft was shot down in Peru and two U.S. citizens were killed. It was restarted in Colombia in August 2003 after additional safeguards were established.\n\nAs of 2005, the United States had provided $68 million for the program, which had so far produced only one drug seizure. In 2010 the Government Accountability Office produced a report stating that the program faced challenges and that the effectiveness of the program at stopping narcotics trafficking was difficult to assess. It noted, however, that the program often advanced broad foreign policy objectives of the United States.\n\nOn April 20, 2001 a small floatplane carrying a family of four missionaries and a pilot was tracked by a CIA spotter plane as a possible drug-running plane. The Peruvian Air Force wrongly identified it as belonging to a drug smuggler, and a Peruvian fighter aircraft shot it down. Of the five people on the plane, Veronica Bowers and her infant daughter were killed in the incident, while her husband Jim and their son Cory, as well as the pilot Kevin Donaldson, managed to survive after crash-landing the plane on the Amazon River despite serious leg wounds.\n\nOn November 1, 2010 the Central Intelligence Agency declassified a 2008 CIA inspector general report that indicated that retired and current officers were given administrative punishments for their role in the incident. While the report laid the blame for the shoot-down at the feet of the Peruvian military, investigators concluded \"there were problems with the program\" and mistakes were made, requiring disciplinary action.\n\n"}
{"id": "24827749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24827749", "title": "Alwin v. State Farm Fire &amp; Casualty Co.", "text": "Alwin v. State Farm Fire &amp; Casualty Co.\n\nAlwin v. State Farm Fire and Casualty Co., 610 N.W.2d 218 (Wis. Ct. App. 2000), was a case decided by the Wisconsin Court of Appeals that provided an exception to the statutory strict liability of dog owners for injuries caused by their dogs.\n\nThe plaintiff (the defendant's mother) tripped over the defendant's dog and sustained injuries. The Wisconsin civil code §174.02 holds dog owners strictly liable for all injuries caused by their dogs, and this theoretically allowed recovery in this case. The court, however, ruled that as a matter of public policy the defendant should not be held liable for someone tripping over their dog.\n\nReview was denied by the Wisconsin Supreme Court on May 23, 2000.\n\n\"Alwin\" has been cited as an example of case-by-case consideration of tort claims that avoids inequitable results that might follow the blind application of strict formulations of liability.\n\n"}
{"id": "53582568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53582568", "title": "Ambedkarism", "text": "Ambedkarism\n\nAmbedkarism is a body of ideas inspired by Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar. His philosophy has been used in India as a basis for political campaigning. His philosophy was using socio-politics as a tool to achieve the end result that is social justice and social equality. Someone who practices Ambedkarism is a Ambedkarite.\n\n"}
{"id": "51783289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51783289", "title": "Arbitration Act 1950", "text": "Arbitration Act 1950\n\nThe Arbitration Act 1950 (c.27, 14 Geo. 6) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated and amended arbitration law in England and Wales. \n\nAlthough the Act has now largely been superseded by the Arbitration Act 1996, Part II of the Act (dealing with the enforcement of non-New York Convention awards) remains in force. This is principally to preserve the enforcement mechanism for awards made under the (now largely obsolete) Geneva Protocol (1924).\n\nThe main purpose of the Act was to consolidate and rationalise the prior statutes regulating arbitration. However the 1950 Act became increasingly subject to criticism because of the power of the courts to review arbitration awards under section 21. That section required the arbitration tribunal to make a \"statement of case\" on any matter of law which was reviewable by the court. This was unpopular and led to loss of arbitration business in the United Kingdom, and led to the repeal of the provisions under the Arbitration Act 1979.\n"}
{"id": "276005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276005", "title": "Asylum seeker", "text": "Asylum seeker\n\nAn asylum seeker (also rarely called an asylee) is a person who flees his or her home country, enters another country and applies for asylum, i.e. the right to international protection, in this other country. An asylum seeker may be a refugee, a displaced person, but not a migrant, such as an economic migrant. Migrants are not asylum seekers. A person becomes an asylum seeker by making a formal application for the right to remain in another country and keeps that status until the application has been concluded. The relevant immigration authorities of the country of asylum determine whether the asylum seeker will be granted protection and becomes an officially recognised refugee or whether asylum is refused and the person becomes an illegal immigrant who has to leave the country again and may even be deported. The asylum seeker may be recognised as a refugee and given refugee status if the person's circumstances fall into the definition of \"refugee\" according to the \n1951 Refugee Convention or other refugee laws, such as the European Convention on Human Rights – if asylum is claimed within the European Union. However signatories to the refugee convention create their own policies for assessing the protection status of asylum seekers, and the proportion of asylum applicants who are rejected varies from country to country and year to year.\n\nThe terms asylum seeker and refugee are often confused: an asylum-seeker is someone who says he or she is a refugee, but whose claim has not yet been definitively evaluated. On average, about 1 million people seek asylum on an individual basis every year.\n\nNon-governmental organizations concerned with refugees and asylum seekers have pointed out difficulties for displaced persons to seek asylum in industrialized countries. As their immigration policy often focuses on the fight of illegal immigration and the strengthening of border controls it deters displaced persons from entering territory in which they could lodge an asylum claim. The lack of opportunities to legally access the asylum procedures can force asylum seekers to undertake often expensive and hazardous attempts at illegal entry.\n\nIn recent years, the public as well as policy makers of many countries are focussing more and more on refugees arriving through third country resettlement and pay less and less attention to asylum seekers and those who have already been granted refugee status but did not come through resettlement. Asylum seekers may be even referred to as \"queue jumpers\", because they did not wait for their chance to be resettled\n\nSome countries offer \"asylum visas\" which are a safe and legal way to reach the country where asylum will be claimed. Many countries don't offer that, which is why many people take large risks for entering these countries. In many countries asylum can only be claimed on arrival in the country:\n\nAsylum as an institution is not restricted to the category of individuals who qualify for refugee status. Rather on the contrary, this institution predates the birth of the international regime for the protection of refugees.\n\nAs at 1 July 2013, there were 145 parties to the 1951 Refugee Convention and 146 to the 1967 Protocol. These states are bound by an obligation under international law to grant asylum to people who fall within the definition of Convention and Protocol. The refugee definitions of 1951 and 1967 are the strictest and most exclusive and persons who fall within this definition are called Convention refugees and their status is called Convention refugee status. Persons who do not fall within this definition may still be granted complementary forms of protection, if they fall within other refugee definitions.\n\nThe practical determination of whether a person is a refugee or not is most often left to certain government agencies within the host country. In some countries the refugee status determination (RSD) is done by the UNHCR. The burden of substantiating an asylum claim lies with the claimant, who must establish that they qualify for protection.\n\nIn many countries, Country of Origin information is used by migration officials as part of the assessment of asylum claims, and governments commission research into the accuracy of their country reports. Some countries have studied the rejection rates of their migration officials making decisions, finding that individuals reject more applicants than others assessing similar cases - and migration officials are required to standardise the reasons for accepting or rejecting claims, so that the decision of one adjudicator is consistent with what their colleagues decide.\n\nThe refugee definition of the 1951 Convention is universally binding, but there are many other definitions according to which protection may be offered to people who do not fall within this definition.\n\nSubsidiary protection is an international protection for persons seeking asylum, but do not qualify as refugees. It is an option to get asylum for those who do not have a well founded fear of persecution (which is required for refugee status according to the 1951 Convention), but do indeed have a substantial risk to be subjected to torture or to a serious harm if they are returned to their country of origin, for reasons that include war, violence, conflict and massive violations of human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and European Union law have a broader definition of who is entitled to asylum.\n\nTemporary protection visas are used to persons in Australia who applied for refugee status after making an unauthorised arrival. It is the main type of visa issued to refugees when released from Australian immigration detention facilities and they are required to reapply for it every three years.\n\nAsylum seekers may be given refugee status on a group basis. Refugees who went thought the group status determination are also referred to as prima facie refugees. This is done in situations when the reasons for seeking refugee status are generally well known and individual assessment would otherwise overwhelm the capacities of assessors. Group determination is more readily done in states that not only have accepted the refugee definition of the 1951 Convention, but also use a refugee definition that includes people fleeing indiscriminate or generalized violence, which are not covered in the 1951 Convention.\n\nFor persons who do not come into the country as part of a bigger group individual asylum interviews are conducted to establish whether the person has sufficient reasons for seeking asylum.\n\nIn many countries, asylum applicants can challenge a rejection by challenging the decision in a court or migration review panel. In the United Kingdom, more than one in four decisions to refuse an asylum seeker protection are overturned by immigration judges.\n\nWhilst waiting for a decision asylum seekers have limited rights in the country of asylum. In most countries they are not allowed to work and in some countries not even to volunteer. In some countries they are not allowed to move freely within the country. Even access to health care is limited. In the European Union, those who have yet to be granted official status as refugees and are still within the asylum process have some restricted rights to healthcare access. This includes access to medical and psychological care. However, these may vary depending on the host country. For instance, under the Asylum Seekers Benefits Act in Germany, asylum seekers are outside primary care and are limited to emergency health care, vaccinations, pregnancy and childbirth with limitations on specialty care. Asylum seekers have greater chance of experiencing unmet health needs as compared to the general German population. They also have greater odds of hospital admissions and at least one visit to a psychotherapists relative to the German general population.\n\nBecause asylum seekers often have to wait for months or years for the results of their asylum applications and because they are usually not allowed to work and only receive minimal or no financial support destitution is a considerable risk.\n\nAsylum seekers usually get some kind of support from governments whilst their application is processed. However, in some countries this support ends immediately once they are given refugee status. But the fact that they were given refugee status does not mean that they were already given all the documents they need for starting their new lives. Because of these circumstances, some refugees are forced to sleep rough and beg for money or, if they’re lucky, rely on the generosity of charities and friends for food and shelter.\n\nIt often happens that the country neither recognizes the refugee status of the asylum seekers nor sees them as legitimate migrants and thus treats them as illegal aliens. If an asylum claim has been rejected, the asylum seeker is said to be refused asylum, and called a failed asylum seeker. Some failed asylum seekers are allowed to remain temporarily, some return home voluntarily home and some are forcibly returned. The latter are most often placed in immigration detention before being deported.\n\nEven though asylum wasn't granted the applicant may be given the right to remain temporarily. In the UK refused cases may be granted humanitarian protection (usually for 5 years) or discretionary leave to remain.\n\nRefugees cannot be deported or otherwise forced to go back to their country of origin as this would be refoulement, which is against international law. But in many cases failed asylum seekers, i.e. who failed to be considered as refugees, are equally vulnerable and may face significant risks when going back, voluntarily or not.\n\nIf asylum seekers have serious medical problems or it is not safe for them to return to their country of origin it is against international law to deport them. However, sometimes they are deported even though they face risks there and it is not safe for them to return. UK authorities have been accused of paying insufficient attention to medical evidence of torture in some cases.\n\nDeportees may be separated from their families who can temporarily or permanently continue to remain in the country; younger persons may not have been to their country of origin for most of their lives, may not even be able to speak the language, don't know anyone and have no connection whatsoever with that country, apart from the formality of having been born there; they may be traumatised through experiences made in detention; they may be detained again as soon as they enter their country of origin; they may even be persecuted. For example, many failed asylum seekers who were returned to Congo (DRC) in 2011 were imprisoned, tortured, forced to pay a ransom, raped or subjected to sexual harassment after their return.\n\nAsylum seekers who have committed crimes against peace, a war crime or a crime against humanity, or other serious non-political crimes, or whose actions are contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations, are excluded from international protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "14332621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14332621", "title": "Basis of accounting", "text": "Basis of accounting\n\nA basis of accounting is the time various financial transactions are recorded. The cash basis (EU VAT vocabulary \"Cash accounting\") and the accrual basis are the two primary methods of tracking income and expenses in accounting. \n\nBoth can be used in a range of situations, from the accounts of a whole country or a large corporation to those of a small business or an individual. In many cases, regulatory bodies require individuals, businesses or corporations to use one method or the other. When this is not the case, the choice of which to use is an important decision, as both methods have advantages and disadvantages.\n\nThe accrual method records income items when they are \"earned\" and records deductions when expenses are \"incurred\". For a business invoicing for an item sold, or work done, the corresponding amount will appear in the books even though no payment has yet been received – and debts owed by the business show as they are incurred, even though they may not be paid until much later. \n\nIn the United States tax environment, the accrual basis has been an option since 1916. An \"accrual basis taxpayer\" looks to the \"all-events test\" and \"earlier-of test\" to determine when income is earned. Under the all-events test, an accrual basis taxpayer generally must include income \"for the taxable year when all the events have occurred which fix the right to receive such income and the amount thereof can be determined with reasonable accuracy\". Under the \"earlier-of test\", an accrual basis taxpayer receives income when (1) the required performance occurs, (2) payment therefor is due, or (3) payment therefor is made, whichever happens earliest. Under the earlier of test outlined in Revenue Ruling 74–607, an accrual basis taxpayer may be treated as a cash basis taxpayer when payment is received before the required performance and before the payment is actually due. An accrual basis taxpayer generally can claim a deduction \"in the taxable year in which all the events have occurred that establish the fact of the liability, the amount of the liability can be determined with reasonable accuracy, and economic performance has occurred with respect to the liability\".\n\nSimilar definition of accrual basis accounting is true for financial accounting purposes, except that revenue can't be recognized until it is earned, even if a cash payment has already been received by the tax authorities.\n\nAlso referred to as the modified cash basis, combines elements of both accrual and cash basis accounting. The modified method records income when it is earned but deductions when expenses are paid out. The recording of income is then of accrual basis, while the recording of expenses is cash basis. The modified method does not conform to the GAAP.\n\n"}
{"id": "30748467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30748467", "title": "Blair Levin", "text": "Blair Levin\n\nBlair Steven Levin is an American lawyer formerly with the Federal Communications Commission, who served as the Executive Director of the National Broadband Plan from 2009 to 2010. During the Presidency of Bill Clinton he was chief of staff to FCC chairman Reed Hundt from 1993 to 1997.\n\nFrom 2001 through 2008, he worked as a policy analyst for Legg Mason and then Stifel Nicolaus. Barron’s Magazine noted that as an analyst, Levin “has always been on top of developing trends and policy shifts in media and telecommunications … and has proved visionary in getting out in front of many of today’s headline making events.” \n\nIn 2008, he co-chaired the technology, innovation and government reform transition team for President-elect Barack Obama and subsequently served as the Executive Director for the effort that produced the National Broadband Plan. FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler has noted that as to Levin’s role in broadband policy, “no one's done more to advance broadband expansion and competition through the vision of National Broadband Plan and Gig.U.\" \n\nHe has spoken at many conferences on telecommunications policy. Along with former FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, Levin authored \"The Politics of Abundance: How Technology Can Fix the Budget, Revive the American Dream, and Establish Obama's Legacy\". He has received a number of awards for his work on broadband including “Visionary of the Year” from Computers for Youth and “Community Broadband Visionary of the Year” from the National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors.\n\nHe is now a non-resident fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Project of the Brookings Institution. He also is the Executive Director of the Gig.U project, a consortium of research university communities seeking to accelerate the deployment of next generation networks in the United States. The project has led to a number of communities obtaining next generation networks.\n\nHe worked on the 1982 campaign of Mayor Tom Bradley's unsuccessful run for California governor and disputes the so-called Bradley Effect. From 1984 through 1993, he was a lawyer with Parker, Poe, Adams and Bernstein in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nHe graduated summa cum laude from Yale College and is a graduate of Yale Law School.\n"}
{"id": "13048564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13048564", "title": "Chechen constitutional referendum, 2007", "text": "Chechen constitutional referendum, 2007\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Russian republic of Chechnya on 2 December 2007, together with the Russian parliamentary elections. Among the changes proposed were:\n\n\nThe referendum succeeded with 85% of the vote in favour.\n\n"}
{"id": "796384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796384", "title": "Constitution of the Year X", "text": "Constitution of the Year X\n\nThe Constitution of the Year X was a national constitution of France adopted during the Year X (10) of the French Revolutionary Calendar (1802 in the Gregorian calendar). It amended the Constitution of the Year VIII, revising the Consulate to augment Napoleon Bonaparte's authority by making him First Consul for Life.\n\nBoth the Constitution of the Year X and the Constitution of the Year VIII were further amended by the Constitution of the Year XII, which established the First French Empire with Napoleon as Emperor.\n"}
{"id": "2914672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2914672", "title": "Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone", "text": "Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone\n\nThe Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone of 1958 is an international treaty which entered into force on 10 September 1964, one of four agreed upon at the first United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS I). The convention was ratified by 52 states.\n\nMany states have ratified the UNCLOS III convention, which came into force in 1994 and supersedes this convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "3081447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3081447", "title": "Crown debt", "text": "Crown debt\n\nCrown debt, in English law, a debt due to the crown. By various statutes, the first dating from the reign of Henry VIII of England (in 1541), the crown has priority for its debts before all other creditors. At common law the crown always had a lien on the lands and goods of debtors by record, which could be enforced even when they had passed into the hands of other persons. The difficulty of ascertaining whether lands were subject to a crown lien or not was often very great, and a remedy was provided by the Judgments Act 1839, and the Crown Suits Act Coronets of Viscounts and Barons 1865. Now by the Land Charges Act 1900, no debt due to the crown operates as a charge on land until a writ of execution for the purpose of enforcing it has been registered under the Land Charges Registration and Searches Act 1888. By the Act of 1541 specialty debts were put practically on the same footing as debts by record. Simple contract debts due to the crown also become specialty debts, and the rights of the crown are enforced by a summary process called an extent.\n\nIn modern parlance the term encompasses the various charges and taxes made by the Government of the United Kingdom, including VAT and PAYE.\n"}
{"id": "11014498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11014498", "title": "DVD", "text": "DVD\n\nDVD (an abbreviation of \"digital video disc\" or \"digital versatile disc\") is a digital optical disc storage format invented and developed in 1995. The medium can store any kind of digital data and is widely used for software and other computer files as well as video programs watched using DVD players. DVDs offer higher storage capacity than compact discs while having the same dimensions.\n\nPrerecorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD. Such discs are a form of DVD-ROM because data can only be read and not written or erased. Blank recordable DVD discs (DVD-R and DVD+R) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM. Rewritable DVDs (DVD-RW, DVD+RW, and DVD-RAM) can be recorded and erased many times.\n\nDVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format as well as for authoring DVD discs written in a special AVCHD format to hold high definition material (often in conjunction with AVCHD format camcorders). DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as DVD data discs.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" comments that, \"In 1995 rival manufacturers of the product initially named digital video disc agreed that, in order to emphasize the flexibility of the format for multimedia applications, the preferred abbreviation DVD would be understood to denote digital versatile disc.\" The OED also states that in 1995, \"The companies said the official name of the format will simply be DVD. Toshiba had been using the name ‘digital video disc’, but that was switched to ‘digital versatile disc’ after computer companies complained that it left out their applications.\"\n\n\"Digital versatile disc\" is the explanation provided in a DVD Forum Primer from 2000\nand in the DVD Forum's mission statement.\n\nThere were several formats developed for recording video on optical discs before the DVD. Optical recording technology was invented by David Paul Gregg and James Russell in 1958 and first patented in 1961. A consumer optical disc data format known as LaserDisc was developed in the United States, and first came to market in Atlanta, Georgia in 1978. It used much larger discs than the later formats. Due to the high cost of players and discs, consumer adoption of LaserDisc was very low in both North America and Europe, and was not widely used anywhere outside Japan and the more affluent areas of Southeast Asia, such as Hong-Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan.\n\nCD Video released in 1987 used analog video encoding on optical discs matching the established standard size of audio CDs. Video CD (VCD) became one of the first formats for distributing \"digitally\" encoded films in this format, in 1993. In the same year, two new optical disc storage formats were being developed. One was the Multimedia Compact Disc (MMCD), backed by Philips and Sony, and the other was the Super Density (SD) disc, supported by Toshiba, Time Warner, Matsushita Electric, Hitachi, Mitsubishi Electric, Pioneer, Thomson, and JVC. By the time of the press launches for both formats in January 1995, the MMCD nomenclature had been dropped, and Philips and Sony were referring to their format as Digital Video Disc (DVD).\n\nRepresentatives from the SD camp asked IBM for advice on the file system to use for their disc, and sought support for their format for storing computer data. Alan E. Bell, a researcher from IBM's Almaden Research Center, got that request, and also learned of the MMCD development project. Wary of being caught in a repeat of the costly videotape format war between VHS and Betamax in the 1980s, he convened a group of computer industry experts, including representatives from Apple, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Dell, and many others. This group was referred to as the Technical Working Group, or TWG.\n\nOn August 14, 1995, an ad hoc group formed from five computer companies (IBM, Apple, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, and Microsoft) issued a press release stating that they would only accept a single format. The TWG voted to boycott both formats unless the two camps agreed on a single, converged standard. They recruited Lou Gerstner, president of IBM, to pressure the executives of the warring factions. In one significant compromise, the MMCD and SD groups agreed to adopt proposal SD 9, which specified that both layers of the dual-layered disc be read from the same side—instead of proposal SD 10, which would have created a two-sided disc that users would have to turn over. As a result, the DVD specification provided a storage capacity of 4.7 GB for a single-layered, single-sided disc and 8.5 GB for a dual-layered, single-sided disc. The DVD specification ended up similar to Toshiba and Matsushita's Super Density Disc, except for the dual-layer option (MMCD was single-sided and optionally dual-layer, whereas SD was two half-thickness, single-layer discs which were pressed separately and then glued together to form a double-sided disc) and EFMPlus modulation designed by Kees Schouhamer Immink.\n\nPhilips and Sony decided that it was in their best interests to end the format war, and agreed to unify with companies backing the Super Density Disc to release a single format, with technologies from both. After other compromises between MMCD and SD, the computer companies through TWG won the day, and a single format was agreed upon. The TWG also collaborated with the Optical Storage Technology Association (OSTA) on the use of their implementation of the ISO-13346 file system (known as Universal Disk Format) for use on the new DVDs.\n\nMovie and home entertainment distributors adopted the DVD format to replace the ubiquitous VHS tape as the primary consumer digital video distribution format. They embraced DVD as it produced higher quality video and sound, provided superior data lifespan, and could be interactive. Interactivity on LaserDiscs had proven desirable to consumers, especially collectors. When LaserDisc prices dropped from approximately $100 per disc to $20 per disc at retail, this luxury feature became available for mass consumption. Simultaneously, the movie studios decided to change their home entertainment release model from a rental model to a for purchase model, and large numbers of DVDs were sold.\n\nAt the same time, a demand for interactive design talent and services was created. Movies in the past had uniquely designed title sequences. Suddenly every movie being released required information architecture and interactive design components that matched the film's tone and were at the quality level that Hollywood demanded for its product.\n\nDVD as a format had two qualities at the time that were not available in any other interactive medium: enough capacity and speed to provide high quality, full motion video and sound, and low cost delivery mechanism provided by consumer products retailers. Retailers would quickly move to sell their players for under $200, and eventually for under $50 at retail. In addition, the medium itself was small enough and light enough to mail using general first class postage. Almost overnight, this created a new business opportunity and model for business innovators to re-invent the home entertainment distribution model. It also gave companies an inexpensive way to provide business and product information on full motion video through direct mail.\n\nImmediately following the formal adoption of a unified standard for DVD, two of the four leading video game console companies (Sega and The 3DO Company) said they already had plans to design a gaming console with DVDs as the source medium. (Sony, despite being one of the developers of the DVD format and eventually the first company to actually release a DVD-based console, stated at the time that they had no plans to use DVD in their gaming systems.) Game consoles such as the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Xbox 360 use DVDs as their source medium for games and other software. Contemporary games for Windows were also distributed on DVD.\n\nThe DVD specifications created and updated by the DVD Forum are published as so-called \"DVD Books\" (e.g. DVD-ROM Book, DVD-Audio Book, DVD-Video Book, DVD-R Book, DVD-RW Book, DVD-RAM Book, DVD-AR Book, DVD-VR Book, etc.).\n\nSome specifications for mechanical, physical and optical characteristics of DVD optical discs can be downloaded as freely available standards from the ISO website. There are also equivalent European Computer Manufacturers Association (Ecma) standards for some of these specifications, such as Ecma-267 for DVD-ROMs. Also, the DVD+RW Alliance publishes competing recordable DVD specifications such as DVD+R, DVD+R DL, DVD+RW or DVD+RW DL. These DVD formats are also ISO standards.\n\nSome DVD specifications (e.g. for DVD-Video) are not publicly available and can be obtained only from the DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of US $5000. Every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement as certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.\n\nHP initially developed recordable DVD media from the need to store data for backup and transport. DVD recordables are now also used for consumer audio and video recording. Three formats were developed: DVD-R/RW, DVD+R/RW (plus), and DVD-RAM. DVD-R is available in two formats, General (650 nm) and Authoring (635 nm), where Authoring discs may be recorded with CSS encrypted video content but General discs may not.\n\nAlthough most DVD writers can nowadays write the DVD+R/RW and DVD-R/RW formats (usually denoted by \"DVD±RW\" or the existence of both the DVD Forum logo and the DVD+RW Alliance logo), the \"plus\" and the \"dash\" formats use different writing specifications. Most DVD readers and players play both kinds of discs, though older models can have trouble with the \"plus\" variants.\n\nSome first generation DVD players would cause damage to DVD±R/RW/DL when attempting to read them.\n\nThe form of the spiral groove that makes up the structure of a recordable DVD encodes unalterable identification data known as Media Identification Code (MID). The MID contains data such as the manufacturer and model, byte capacity, allowed data rates (also known as speed), etc..\n\nDual-layer recording (sometimes also known as double-layer recording) allows DVD-R and DVD+R discs to store significantly more data—up to 8.5 gigabytes per disc, compared with 4.7 gigabytes for single-layer discs. Along with this, DVD-DLs have slower write speeds as compared to ordinary DVDs. When played, a slight transition can sometimes be seen in the playback when the player changes layers. DVD-R DL was developed for the DVD Forum by Pioneer Corporation; DVD+R DL was developed for the DVD+RW Alliance by Mitsubishi Kagaku Media (MKM) and Philips.\n\nA dual-layer disc differs from its single layered counterpart by employing a second physical layer within the disc itself. The drive with dual-layer capability accesses the second layer by shining the laser through the first semitransparent layer. In some DVD players, the layer change can exhibit a noticeable pause, up to several seconds. This caused some viewers to worry that their dual-layer discs were damaged or defective, with the end result that studios began listing a standard message explaining the dual-layer pausing effect on all dual-layer disc packaging.\n\nDVD recordable discs supporting this technology are backward-compatible with some existing DVD players and DVD-ROM drives. Many current DVD recorders support dual-layer technology, and the price is now comparable to that of single-layer drives, although the blank media remain more expensive. The recording speeds reached by dual-layer media are still well below those of single-layer media.\n\nDual layer DVDs are recorded using \"Opposite Track Path\" (OTP). DVD-ROM discs mastered for computer use are produced with track 0 starting at the inside diameter (as is the case with a single layer). Track 1 then starts at the outside diameter. DVD video discs are mastered slightly differently. The video is divided between the layers such that layer 1 can be made to start at the same diameter that layer 0 finishes. This speeds up the transition as the layer changes because although the laser does have to refocus on layer 1, it does not have to skip across the disc to find it.\n\nThe basic types of DVD (12 cm diameter, single-sided or homogeneous double-sided) are referred to by a rough approximation of their capacity in gigabytes. In draft versions of the specification, DVD-5 indeed held five gigabytes, but some parameters were changed later on as explained above, so the capacity decreased. Other formats, those with 8 cm diameter and hybrid variants, acquired similar numeric names with even larger deviation.\n\nThe 12 cm type is a standard DVD, and the 8 cm variety is known as a MiniDVD. These are the same sizes as a standard CD and a mini-CD, respectively. The capacity by surface area (MiB/cm) varies from 6.92 MiB/cm in the DVD-1 to 18.0 MB/cm in the DVD-18.\n\nEach DVD sector contains 2,418 bytes of data, 2,048 bytes of which are user data. There is a small difference in storage space between \"+\" and \"-\" (hyphen) formats:\n\nDVD drives are devices that can read DVD discs on a computer. DVD players are a particular type of devices that do not require a computer to work, and can read DVD-Video and DVD-Audio discs.\n\nAll three common optical disc media (Compact disc, DVD, and Blu-ray) use light from laser diodes, for its spectral purity and ability to be focused precisely. DVD uses light of 650 nm wavelength (red), as opposed to 780 nm (far-red, commonly called infrared) for CD. This shorter wavelength allows a smaller pit on the media surface compared to CDs (0.74 µm for DVD versus 1.6 µm for CD), accounting in part for DVD's increased storage capacity.\n\nIn comparison, Blu-ray Disc, the successor to the DVD format, uses a wavelength of\n405 nm (violet), and one dual-layer disc has a 50 GB storage capacity.\n\nRead and write speeds for the first DVD drives and players were 1,385 kB/s (1,353 KiB/s); this speed is usually called \"1×\". More recent models, at 18× or 20×, have 18 or 20 times that speed. Note that for CD drives, 1× means 153.6 kB/s (150 KiB/s), about one-ninth as swift.\n\nDVD-Video is a standard for distributing video/audio content on DVD media. The format went on sale in Japan in 1995, in the United States, Canada, Central America, and Indonesia in 1997, and in Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa in 1998. DVD-Video became the dominant form of home video distribution in Japan when it first went on sale in 1995, but it shared the market for home video distribution in the United States until June 15, 2003, when weekly DVD-Video in the United States rentals began outnumbering weekly VHS cassette rentals.\nDVD-Video is still the dominant form of home video distribution worldwide except for in Japan where it was surpassed by Blu-ray Disc when Blu-ray first went on sale in Japan on March 31, 2006.\n\nThe Content Scramble System (CSS) is a digital rights management (DRM) and encryption system employed on almost all commercially produced DVD-video discs. CSS utilizes a proprietary 40-bit stream cipher algorithm. The system was introduced around 1996 and was first compromised in 1999.\n\nThe purpose of CSS is twofold:\n\nWhile most CSS-decrypting software is used to play DVD videos, other pieces of software (such as DVD Decrypter, AnyDVD, DVD43, Smartripper, and DVD Shrink) can copy a DVD to a hard drive and remove Macrovision, CSS encryption, region codes and user operation prohibition.\n\nThe rise of filesharing has prompted many copyright holders to display notices on DVD packaging or displayed on screen when the content is played that warn consumers of the illegality of certain uses of the DVD. It is commonplace to include a 90-second advertisement warning that most forms of copying the contents are illegal. Many DVDs prevent skipping past or fast-forwarding through this warning.\nArrangements for renting and lending differ by geography. In the U.S., the right to re-sell, rent, or lend out bought DVDs is protected by the first-sale doctrine under the Copyright Act of 1976. In Europe, rental and lending rights are more limited, under a 1992 European Directive that gives copyright holders broader powers to restrict the commercial renting and public lending of DVD copies of their work. \n\nDVD-Audio is a format for delivering high fidelity audio content on a DVD. It offers many channel configuration options (from mono to 5.1 surround sound) at various sampling frequencies (up to 24-bits/192 kHz versus CDDA's 16-bits/44.1 kHz). Compared with the CD format, the much higher-capacity DVD format enables the inclusion of considerably more music (with respect to total running time and quantity of songs) or far higher audio quality (reflected by higher sampling rates, greater sample resolution and additional channels for spatial sound reproduction).\n\nDVD-Audio briefly formed a niche market, probably due to the very sort of format war with rival standard SACD that DVD-Video avoided.\n\nDVD-Audio discs employ a DRM mechanism, called Content Protection for Prerecorded Media (CPPM), developed by the 4C group (IBM, Intel, Matsushita, and Toshiba).\n\nAlthough CPPM was supposed to be much harder to crack than a DVD-Video CSS, it too was eventually cracked, in 2007, with the release of the \"dvdcpxm\" tool. The subsequent release of the libdvdcpxm library (based on dvdcpxm) allowed for the development of open source DVD-Audio players and ripping software. As a result, making 1:1 copies of DVD-Audio discs is now possible with relative ease, much like DVD-Video discs.\n\nIn 2006, two new formats called HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc were released as the successor to DVD. HD DVD competed unsuccessfully with Blu-ray Disc in the format war of 2006–2008. A dual layer HD DVD can store up to 30 GB and a dual layer Blu-ray disc can hold up to 50 GB.\n\nHowever, unlike previous format changes, e.g., vinyl to Compact Disc or VHS videotape to DVD, there is no immediate indication that production of the standard DVD will gradually wind down, as they still dominate, with around 75% of video sales and approximately one billion DVD player sales worldwide . In fact, experts claim that the DVD will remain the dominant medium for at least another five years as Blu-ray technology is still in its introductory phase, write and read speeds being poor and necessary hardware being expensive and not readily available.\n\nConsumers initially were also slow to adopt Blu-ray due to the cost. By 2009, 85% of stores were selling Blu-ray Discs. A high-definition television and appropriate connection cables are also required to take advantage of Blu-ray disc. Some analysts suggest that the biggest obstacle to replacing DVD is due to its installed base; a large majority of consumers are satisfied with DVDs. The DVD succeeded because it offered a compelling alternative to VHS. In addition, the uniform media size let manufacturers make Blu-ray players and now defunct format HD DVD players backward-compatible, so they can play older DVDs. This stands in contrast to the change from vinyl to CD, and from tape to DVD, which involved a complete change in physical medium. it is still commonplace for studios to issue major releases in \"combo pack\" format, including both a DVD and a Blu-ray disc (as well as, a digital copy). Also, some multi-disc sets use Blu-ray for the main feature, but DVDs for supplementary features (examples of this include the \"Harry Potter\" \"Ultimate Edition\" collections, the 2009 re-release of the 1967 \"The Prisoner\" TV series, and a 2007 collection related to \"Blade Runner\"). Another reason cited (July 2011) for the slower transition to Blu-ray from DVD is the necessity of and confusion over \"firmware updates\" and needing an internet connection to perform updates.\n\nThis situation is similar to the changeover from 78 rpm shellac recordings to 45 rpm and 33⅓ rpm vinyl recordings. Because the new and old mediums were virtually the same (a disc on a turntable, played by a needle), phonograph player manufacturers continued to include the ability to play 78s for decades after the format was discontinued.\n\nManufacturers continue to release standard DVD titles , and the format remains the preferred one for the release of older television programs and films. Some programs, such as \"\" and \"\" must be re-scanned to produce a high definition version from the original film recordings. (Certain special effects were also updated to appear better in high-definition.)\n\nDVDs are also facing competition from video on demand services. With increasing numbers of homes having high speed Internet connections, many people now have the option to either rent or buy video from an online service, and view it by streaming it directly from that service's servers, meaning that the customer need not have any form of permanent storage media for video at all. PWC predicts that online streaming revenue will overtake physical media sales revenue by 2018. Globally, the total combined revenue from over-the-top (OTT)/streaming services and broadcasters' video on demand (VOD) services is expected to grow at a CAGR of 19.9% to overtake physical home video revenue (the sale and rental of DVDs and Blu-ray discs) in 2018. By 2017, digital streaming services had overtaken the sales of DVDs and Blu-rays for the first time.\n\nDVD longevity is measured by how long the data remains readable from the disc, assuming compatible devices exist that can read it: that is, how long the disc can be stored until data is lost. Numerous factors affect longevity: composition and quality of the media (recording and substrate layers), humidity and light storage conditions, the quality of the initial recording (which is sometimes a matter of mutual compatibility of media and recorder), etc. According to NIST, \"[a] temperature of 64.4 °F (18 °C) and 40% RH [Relative Humidity] would be considered suitable for long-term storage. A lower temperature and RH is recommended for extended-term storage.\"\n\nAccording to the Optical Storage Technology Association (OSTA), \"Manufacturers claim lifespans ranging from 30 to 100 years for DVD, DVD-R and DVD+R discs and up to 30 years for DVD-RW, DVD+RW and DVD-RAM.\"\n\nAccording to a NIST/LoC research project conducted in 2005–2007 using accelerated life testing, \"There were fifteen DVD products tested, including five DVD-R, five DVD+R, two DVD-RW and three DVD+RW types. There were ninety samples tested for each product. [...] Overall, seven of the products tested had estimated life expectancies in ambient conditions of more than 45 years. Four products had estimated life expectancies of 30–45 years in ambient storage conditions. Two products had an estimated life expectancy of 15–30 years and two products had estimated life expectancies of less than 15 years when stored in ambient conditions.\" The life expectancies for 95% survival estimated in this project by type of product are tabulated below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13765326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13765326", "title": "Dear Colleague letter", "text": "Dear Colleague letter\n\nA Dear Colleague letter is a letter sent by one member of a legislative body to all fellow members, usually describing a new bill and asking for cosponsors or seeking to influence the recipients' votes on an issue. They can also be used for administrative matters, such as announcing elevator repairs, or informing colleagues of events connected with congressional business, or to set or modify procedures.\n\nA typical \"Dear Colleague letter\" is written by staff members and will be approved by a Legislative Director as it represents a significant political communication by the member. Dear Colleague letters are short, typically no longer than 500 words.\n\nThe use of such letters dates back to at least to the early 20th century. Electronic Dear Colleague letters are now disseminated via in-house networks in the US House and US Senate. Several agencies of the US government have also made use of \"Dear Colleague\" letters to disseminate information to the public and issue statements on public policy, including those of the Department of Transportation, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Education. In UK government agencies such as the U.K. Department of Health, Dear Colleague letters convey general information, policy updates or a request for information or action.\n"}
{"id": "53233377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53233377", "title": "Destination-based cash flow tax", "text": "Destination-based cash flow tax\n\nA destination-based cash flow tax (DBCFT). is form of border adjustment tax (BAT) that was proposed in the United States by the Republican Party in their 2016 policy paper \"A Better Way — Our Vision for a Confident America\", which promoted a move to the tax. It has been described by some sources as simply a form of import tariff, while others have argued that it has different consequences than those of a simple tariff.\n\nThe proposed tax is a destination-based, border-adjustable international corporate consumption tax system in which a tax is \"applied to all domestic consumption and excludes any goods or services that are produced domestically, but consumed elsewhere.\" The border adjustments included in the proposal are \"taxes or tax reductions that apply when payments for goods and services cross international borders.\" Imported goods purchased/consumed domestically are subject to the tax while goods produced domestically and sold internationally are exempt.\n\nAccording to economist Alan J. Auerbach at the University of California, Berkeley, who is the \"principal intellectual champion\" of the \"package of ideas\" surrounding border-adjustment tax that had been evolving in academia over a number of years, the destination-based system, which is focused on where a product is consumed, eliminates incentives that multinationals now have to \"game the system\" through tax inversion and other means, in order to \"avoid taxes\" and to \"shelter profits\" by \"shifting\" \"intangible assets to low-tax nations.\"\n\nIntroducing this is the linchpin of the Republican Party's 2016 tax-reform proposal. A major aspect of the tax policy change would result in lowering the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% by adjusting or removing export sales from the company's taxable revenue, thus leaving large, profitable multinational corporations at a very substantial tax advantage. As that would result in a sizable loss in tax revenue, the border-adjustment tax applied to imports consumed domestically is essential to compensate for the loss. Auerbach's theory is that a border-adjustment tax of 20% would strengthen the US dollar by about 25%. More exports will assumedly be sold because of their lower costs under the border tax subsidy. The stronger dollar would keep domestic consumer costs lower in spite of the 20% corporate income tax being applied to imported goods consumed domestically, effectively cancelling out the higher tax on imports and making the border-adjustment tax value-neutral.\n\nHowever, both \"The Economist\" and the Brookings Institution caution that there is uncertainty as to how the currency exchange will respond. Unless it is immediate and as complete as Auerbach anticipates, the increased cost to importers would result in higher consumer prices which would \"hit low-income households disproportionately.\" Some economists and policy makers have also expressed concern that other countries could challenge border-adjustment tax with the World Trade Organization or impose retaliatory tariffs; and there is also strong opposition by some US corporate interests.\n\nOver the years, Auerbach has worked with Michael Devereux, who had co-introduced with Stephen R. Bond, the term destination-based corporate tax. Auerbach described a \"corporate tax system\" in which the \"incentives\" would be aligned with the \"national interest.\" In designing a \"destination-based system, focusing on where a product is consumed\", Auerbach wanted to eliminate incentives that multinationals now have to \"game the system\" in order to \"avoid taxes\" and to \"shelter profits\" by \"shifting\" \"intangible assets to low-tax nations.\" As early as 1997, Auerbach mentioned the concept in a 1997 article published in the \"American Economic Review\". How exchange rates respond to the implementation of a border-adjustment tax will impact positively or negatively on the economy. \"Bloomberg View\" described it as a \"tariff plus export subsidy.\" While in theory, a border-adjustment tax is trade neutral, both \"The Economist\" and the Brookings Institution caution that if the exchange rate did not adjust, it would be painful for importers and low-income households.\n\nIn the United States, 14 more corporate inversions were reported in 2014 alone in a wave of inversions that threatened to \"undermine the U.S. tax base\" and economy\", according to Sander Levin, (D-Michigan), then-leader of the Ways and Means Committee. Auerbach had promoted his tax policies within government agencies for many years, but it was in 2016 that Kevin Brady (R-Texas), Ways and Means Committee Chairman included most of Auerbach's recommendations in his blueprint. Brady, who was leader of the Tax Reform Task Force, one of six task forces created by House Speaker Paul D. Ryan on February 4, 2016, spearheaded the GOP effort to \"create a 21st century tax code built for growth.\" On June 24, they presented a policy paper, entitled \"A Better Way: Our Vision for a Confident America\", which promoted a move to \"a destination-basis tax system.\" The paper, which is part of a \"series of \"blueprint\" white papers\" that outline major policy changes\", described how the proposed \"territorial tax system\" would end the United States' existing \"uncompetitive worldwide tax approach.\" The blueprint would also cut \"the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent\" so the border tax is needed as revenue offset. In a February 17, 2017 interview with \"Bloomberg\", Brady described the \"centerpiece of Ryan’s tax blueprint\" the GOP as an \"idea to tax imports and exempt exports would make U.S. companies more competitive globally and reduce their current motivations to move abroad.\"\n\nAccording to the Tax Foundation, the border-adjusted tax would \"raise about $1.1 trillion in revenue\" by 2027 \"which would help to offset the blueprint’s corporate and income tax cuts.\" As Ryan defended border-adjustment levy at a press conference on February 17, the Koch brothers-funded Americans for Prosperity (AFP), an influential lobby group, unveiled their plan to fight the taxes. In President Trump's cabinet, supporters include Steve Bannon, Senior Counselor while Gary Cohn, the former Goldman Sachs investment banker and executive, Director of the National Economic Council is opposed. Senator Tom Cotton (Arkansas) estimated that the one billion a year that corporations will save in revenue would be paid by working Americans as they purchase T-shirts and baby clothes. Also Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has raised concerns.\n\nSome argue that the U.S. corporate tax rate at 35% is the \"highest in the industrialized world\", while others argue it isn't. The rate varies from sector to sector, and can be as low as 21% in the manufacturing industry. A high tax rate would place the U.S. at a \"competitive disadvantage in the global marketplace.\" and encourages corporations to move to countries with lower taxes. The current tax system also provides a \"tax deduction for imported goods\", providing another incentive for companies to leave. Companies that import inventory before ultimately selling their product domestically to U.S. consumers can deduct the cost of imports from their taxable income as part of cost of goods sold giving the company a sometimes sizable benefit. As explained in \"Forbes,\" the border-adjustment tax \"would move away from a direct income tax, and more toward an indirect \"cash flow\" tax\" where a \"corporation would be entitled to immediately deduct the cost of all asset purchases.\" and the \"corporate tax rate would be reduced to 20%. Although this is being compared to a value added tax (VAT), \"under a typical VAT...the corporation couldn't deduct its wages.\" but under the Brady and Ryan blueprint, wages could be deducted so this would be an \"indirect VAT.\"\n\nA sizable loss in tax revenue will be one of the results of a 15% corporate tax rate reduction.\n\nTo encourage companies to export, the border adjustment tax system would \"adjust\" the company's tax to account for the exported sales by removing the amount of the export sales from the company's revenue number, leaving large, profitable multi-national corporations at a very substantial tax advantage.\n\nExcept for the United States, all OECD countries employ some form of value-added tax (VAT) as do 160 other countries.\n\nIn the US, the concept of a value-added tax has been the subject of much debate in academia and in politics, and a business \"flat tax\", or a national subtraction-method VAT, was among the proposals put forward to replace the corporate income tax in 2008.\n\nInstead, a sales and use tax was common in most US states.\n\nAccording to an article co-authored by Auerbach for the American Action Forum, the border-adjusted tax included in the GOP 2016 tax reform proposal would \"convert the current corporate income tax into what is called a 'destination-based cash flow tax'\" (DBCFT). Although a DBCFT is similar to a VAT, according to the Tax Foundation, the GOP's business tax is not a VAT. However, according to Auerbach at the American Action Forum, the border adjustments are used primarily in the \"context\" of the VAT.\n\nCaroline Freund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, described how the \"Better Way\" plan incorporates \"border-tax adjustments into business taxes.\" It makes \"exports tax-exempt, while companies could not deduct expenditures on imports from their tax base.\" She compared the border-adjustment tax proposed by the GOP in 2016 to the value-added tax (VAT) that many other countries use. The former is a business tax while the latter is a sales tax; the former is protectionist and the VAT, like a sales tax, is not. Freund uses the example of Maryland's 6% sales tax, which applies to all imports regardless of where they are produced. It is not a destination-based consumption tax, therefore it is neither protectionist nor discriminatory unlike the proposed DBCFT. The destination-based cash-flow tax (or DBCFT) allows for wage deductions, while a VAT does not.\n\nUnder the cash-flow tax with border adjustment, imports would be charged a uniform 20% and unlike \"the sales tax, the cash-flow tax with border adjustment would favor domestically produced goods.\"\n\nBy February 17, 2017 under the Tax Code, if a corporation produces a product domestically and sells it internationally, the company must pay income taxes to the US on the sale. However, if a corporation imports a product that is manufactured internationally and sells it domestically, the company does not pay income taxes to the US on the value of the imported product.\n\nIn theory, a border-adjustment tax is trade-neutral: the stronger domestic currency would make exports more expensive internationally, lowering demand for exported products while reducing the costs incurred by domestic firms in purchasing goods and services in foreign markets, helping importers. Thus, the anticipated strengthening of the domestic currency effectively neutralizes the border-adjustment tax, resulting in a trade-neutral outcome. Auerbach's theory is that a border-adjustment tax would strengthen the dollar by an amount corresponding to the tax and the stronger dollar would theoretically reduce the price of imported goods, effectively cancelling out the higher tax on imports and making the border-adjustment tax value neutral.\n\n\"The Economist\" warns that in reality, \"Nobody knows for sure what would happen... If the economy failed to adjust, importers would pay a lot more tax, and exporters would get a windfall. Any adjustment would be painful. To offset a border-adjusted tax of 20%—the rate favoured by House Republicans—the greenback would need to rise fully 25%, enough to destabilise emerging markets burdened with dollar-denominated debts.\" However, the Brookings Institution also caution, \"If the exchange rate does not adjust fully and immediately, though, the effects of the border adjustment could be quite different. Exports would rise, imports would fall, and the trade deficit would fall. Consumer prices would rise, fueled by higher import costs, and this would hit low-income households disproportionately.\"\n\nAccording to the Tax Foundation, there are several advantages to implementing a border-adjustment tax It would \"raise revenue in the least distortive manner in order to lower overall rates for U.S. taxpayers.\" It would \"raise $1.1 trillion over 10 years\" and \"lower the corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent.\" It would \"protect the U.S. tax base by improving business incentives\" by \"changing the system from taxing companies based on where they produce to based on where they sell.\" It would \"simplify the business tax system\" by replacing \"most of these complicated international tax rules.\" Additionally, by exempting foreign transactions from taxation (i.e. levying a tax on goods produced domestically but sold internationally), the DBCFT removes a strong incentive for firms to relocate (or off-shore) profits or profitable activities. The burden of the tax would be borne, primarily, by individuals and businesses who own foreign (non-domestic) assets.\n\nBorder-adjustment taxes would eliminate incentives that drive US corporations to \"shift profit overseas and overcharge for purchases from subsidiaries abroad.\" For example, Apple Inc has been criticized for allegedly gaming the existing tax system.\n\nThose who oppose the border-adjustment tax have concerns about the impact on the US dollar exchange rate, which would benefit countries like China and Japan that hold a large portion of the US debt, retaliations by trade partners, legal challenges through the World Trade Organization, and benefits to larger American corporations that export at the cost of smaller and medium-sized domestic companies that import, and therefore their customers, especially middle- and lower-income American consumers.\n\n\"If the dollar goes up 25%, U.S. holders of foreign assets—including pension funds and endowments—would suffer a one-time loss in wealth of more than $2 trillion.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", as foreign exchange rates adjust to the border adjustment tax by increasing the value of the dollar, as predicted by some Republicans and many economists, an \"underappreciated effect\" of a strong dollar would be the increase in the value of \"dollar-denominated U.S. debt held by foreigners\" such as the Chinese government.\n\nThe European Union and other trading partners could challenge border-adjustment tax with the World Trade Organization. In its current iteration, it could be non-compatible, as rules state that imported goods be treated the same as domestically-produced goods. The DBCFT, however, taxes the entire value of the import but only the above-normal return to capital owners of domestically-produced goods. According to an January 18, 2017 article in \"Bloomberg View\", while it has been asserted that the proposed border-adjustment tax would be compatible with WTO rules, that is controversial. The proposed tax could disfavor imports over domestically produced goods. The wage component of goods that are produced domestically would not be taxed.\n\nCritics have argued that a border-adjustment tax may disproportionately and adversely impact domestic companies that import products or parts, such as those in the retail, clothing, shoes, automotive, consumer electronics, and oil industries while favoring large, domestic exporters, such as those in the aerospace, defense or technology sectors. Industrial multinational companies who are exporters, such as Dow Chemical Co., Pfizer, General Electric and Boeing, support the levy. Along with Koch Industries, those who oppose it include oil refiners, car dealers, represented by American International Automobile Dealers Association including Toyota Motor Corp, toy manufacturers, retailers such as Target Corporation, Gap Inc., Nike Inc., McCormick & Co., and Walmart, which depend on \"importing foreign-made goods.\" They claim that \"it would drive up import costs and force them to raise prices.\"\n\nSome economists and policy makers have expressed concern that such a policy may result in retaliatory tariffs against domestic firms.\n\n"}
{"id": "18385764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385764", "title": "Federal Accountability Initiative for Reform", "text": "Federal Accountability Initiative for Reform\n\nThe Federal Accountability Initiative for Reform (FAIR) was a Canadian public interest organization and registered charity whose purpose was to support legislation and management practices that protect whistleblowers.\n\nFAIR's mission was to promote \"integrity and accountability within government by empowering employees to speak out without fear of reprisal when they encounter wrongdoing\" and to \"support legislation and management practices that will provide effective protection for whistleblowers and hence occupational free speech in the workplace.\"\n\nFAIR was founded in 1998 by Joanna Gualtieri, a well-known whistleblower and a leading authority on Canadian whistleblower law. Under her leadership the organization played a key role in the shaping of Canadian legislation on whistleblowing and accountability issues. It drafted the first Federal whistleblower protection legislation brought before the Parliament in Canada, which was introduced as a private members bill. It also provided testimony to the House Standing Legislative Committee and Canadian Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs on May 10 and September 25, 2006 in advance of the passing of the \"Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act\". The organization has apparently ceased operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1187816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187816", "title": "Federal Fiscal Court", "text": "Federal Fiscal Court\n\nThe Federal Fiscal Court (\"Bundesfinanzhof\") is one of five federal supreme courts of Germany, established according to Article 95 of the Basic Law. It is the federal court of appeal for tax and customs matters in cases which have already been heard by the subordinate instance, namely the Finance Courts.\n\nThe \"Federal Fiscal Court\" was established in 1950 (succeeding the supreme Finance Court of the German Reich - \"Reichsfinanzhof\" - established in 1918). Its seat is in Munich.\n\n"}
{"id": "25551375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25551375", "title": "Guangqi Honda", "text": "Guangqi Honda\n\nGuangqi Honda Automobile Co Ltd is a Chinese automobile manufacturing joint venture company based in Guangzhou, Guangdong province.\n\nCo-owned by Honda Motor and GAC Group (\"Guangqi\"), Guangqi Honda operates two plants that, , produces Honda-branded models and one car sold under the China-only Everus brand. Its products comprise the Everus S1, Honda Accord, Honda Crider, Honda City, Honda Crosstour, Honda Vezel, Honda Fit, and Honda Odyssey. As of early 2011, some offerings may incorporate Japanese-made parts.\n\nOriginally named Guangzhou Honda, this was changed to Guangqi Honda in 2009. , the company boasts a per year production capacity of 480,000.\n\nSeeking to replace the loss-making of the Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile Company for a joint venture with another foreign car-maker, the government of Guangzhou established Guangzhou Honda Automobile Co Ltd with Honda, which beat out a number of rivals for the privilege, in May or July of 1998. By 1999, Guangqi Honda was producing its first model, an American version Accord.\n\nMaking a product that the Chinese consumer had familiarity with through high quality imports as well as a pre-existing sales and service network for these cars may have contributed to the early success of Guangqi Honda. A recently failed joint venture between the Guangzhou Government and Peugeot (Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile Company) also helped to prepare the ground.\n\nBeginning in 2009, Guangqi Honda has distributed automobiles by ship—reducing secondary transport distances and transport losses while also being environmentally responsible. The company also uses rail and road transport.\n\nEverus (\"Li Nian\" ), Guangqi Honda's first China-only brand, is targeted at consumers in inland cities like Chaozhou and Lanzhou who can't afford its Honda-branded vehicles but desire the cachet and technological underpinnings foreign-tied brands offer. While it was the first China-only brand for any sino-foreign joint venture other, similar marques do exist such as the Dongfeng/Nissan Venucia.\n\nThe first Everus model, the S1 subcompact, was unveiled at the 2010 Guangzhou Auto Show. The S1 is based on an old model of the Honda City.\n\nGuangqi Honda ranked highest in customer satisfaction with authorized dealer after-sales service according to the J.D. Power Asia Pacific 2009 China Customer Service Index Study.\n\nGuangqi Honda currently manufactures the following vehicles:\n\n"}
{"id": "35691808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35691808", "title": "Insolvent Debtors (England) Act 1813", "text": "Insolvent Debtors (England) Act 1813\n\nThe Insolvent Debtors (England) Act (53 Geo. 3 c 102) was an Act of Parliament passed by the United Kingdom Parliament in 1813, during the reign of King George III.\n\nIt was enacted in response to the demands on the prison system imposed by the numbers of those being incarcerated for debt, and some concern for their plight. The Act created a new Court for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors that remained in existence until 1861, under the jurisdiction of a newly appointed Commissioner. Those imprisoned for debt could apply to the court to be released – unless they were in trade or guilty of fraudulent or other dishonest behaviour – by reaching an agreement with their creditors that ensured a fair distribution of their present and future assets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38430757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38430757", "title": "Intelligent Governance for the 21st Century", "text": "Intelligent Governance for the 21st Century\n\nIntelligent Governance for the 21st Century: A Middle Way Between West and East is a book published in 2012 by the investor and philanthropist Nicolas Berggruen and the editor and writer Nathan Gardels.\n\nIt argues that Western democracies have become stymied by populism and short-term thinking, while authoritarian Eastern nations, notably China, need to bolster their meritocratic but authoritarian systems with the popular legitimacy characteristic of Western polities.\n\nThe book was first published in English and later translated into Spanish, Portuguese and other languages.\n\n\nThe book's conclusion, \"Survival of the Wisest\", argues that wisdom and long-term thinking combined to democratic legitimacy is the right political combination for success in a globalized world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9382663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9382663", "title": "International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance", "text": "International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance\n\nThe International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICPPED) is an international human rights instrument of the United Nations and intended to prevent forced disappearance defined in international law, crimes against humanity. The text was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 20 December 2006 and opened for signature on 6 February 2007. It entered into force on 23 December 2010. , 97 states have signed the convention and 59 have ratified it.\n\nFollowing a General Assembly resolution in 1992 containing a 21 article declaration about enforced disappearance, and its resolution of 1978 requesting that recommendations be made, the Commission on Human Rights established an \"inter-sessional open-ended working group to elaborate a draft legally binding normative instrument for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance\" in 2001.\n\nThe Group concluded its work in 2006 and its draft international convention was adopted by the Human Rights Council on 29 June 2006, and welcomed the offer by France to host the signing ceremony.\n\nOn 20 December 2006, the General Assembly adopted without a vote the text of the Convention and opened it for signature at the signing ceremony in Paris.\n\nThe convention is modelled heavily on the United Nations Convention Against Torture.\n\n\"Enforced disappearance\" is defined in Article 2 of the Convention as\n\nArticle 1 of the Convention further states that\n\nThe widespread or systematic use of enforced disappearance is further defined as a crime against humanity in Article 6.\n\nParties to the convention undertake to:\n\n\nThe Convention will be governed by a Committee on Enforced Disappearances elected by its parties. Parties are obliged to report to this committee on the steps they have taken to implement it within two years of becoming subject to it.\n\nThe Convention includes an optional complaints system whereby citizens of parties may appeal to the Committee for assistance in locating a disappeared person. Parties may join this system at any time, but may only opt out of it upon signature.\n\nWhile the New Zealand government supports the Convention and joined the consensus leading to its adoption, it retains significant concerns around inconsistencies between the convention and established international law. These include the definition of enforced disappearance as a crime against humanity in Article 5, and the Article 6 provisions relating to command responsibility. According to an MFAT spokesperson, New Zealand \"has no immediate plans\" to sign or ratify the Convention.\n\nThe United Kingdom stated its position during the discussion that followed the adoption of the General Assembly resolution on several technical points about the Convention. For example, on Article 18, which sets out the minimum information that a lawyer or relative of a person deprived of liberty should have access to (such as when the arrest took place, who gave the order, and the health of the person), the ambassador explained that if the deprivation of liberty of a person was done legally according to the laws of the country, and was not an \"enforced disappearance\", then such information could be withheld from the relatives and legal counsel.\n\nA question asked in Parliament about whether there was any intention to sign the Convention, resulted in the answer that the Government needed \"to conduct a detailed analysis of the provisions of the treaty and their implications for implementation in order to determine the UK's position towards ratification\".—The UK was active throughout the negotiations to draft the UN International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance and we supported its adoption last year at both the UN Human Rights Council and the UN General Assembly.\n\nA question during the daily State Department Press briefing that coincided with the date of the signing ceremony resulted in the following exchange:\n\nThe Convention attracted 57 signatures when opened for signature in Paris. Controversially, the United States did not sign, saying that it \"did not meet our expectations\". A number of European countries were not initial signatories to the convention; these included the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands. Spain, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands have subsequently signed and ratified the convention. The initial signatories were Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Congo, Croatia, France, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, Japan, Lithuania, Maldives, Moldavia, Morocco, Uganda, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Macedonia, Chad, Tunisia, Vanuatu, Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia Herzegovina, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, Comoros, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Finland, Grenada, Honduras, India, Kenya, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Niger, Paraguay, Portugal, Samoa, Sweden, and Uruguay.\n\n, 59 states have ratified or acceded to the convention.\n\nThe International Coalition against Enforced Disappearances (ICAED) is a global network of organisations of families of disappeared and NGO's campaigning in a nonviolent manner against the practice of enforced disappearances at the local, national and international level. The ICAED was founded in 2007 as a result from the 25-year-long struggle of families of disappeared and human rights defenders for an international legally binding instrument against enforced disappearances. The primary purpose of the ICAED is working together towards early ratification and effective implementation of the International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearances. Amnesty International is campaigning for Costa Rica, Pakistan, East Timor, Burundi, Portugal, Morocco, Lebanon, Cape Verde, Serbia, and Paraguay to ratify the convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38463098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38463098", "title": "Isfin (Islamic finance lawyers)", "text": "Isfin (Islamic finance lawyers)\n\nISFIN (Islamic Markets Advisors) is a worldwide platform for professional firms specializing in Islamic Finance, investments from and to the Muslim world and the Halal industry. The headquarters are located in Brussels. The organization was founded in 2011 by Laurent Marlière.\n\nISFIN gathers specialists from independent partner firms from numerous countries, with coverage in more than 65 targeted countries (see list of partner firms below), enabling it to provide any company with global (but locally-specific) advice in all aspects of Islamic Finance (Shariah-compliant, Shariah investments and conventional transactions).\n\nThe objectives of the ISFIN organization are to help Islamic investors investing in Western countries and Western investors investing in Islamic countries, including advice on tax structuring. ISFIN also helps Western governments to configure their tax regulations so as to promote Islamic investment in their countries.\n\nIsFin was recognized and nominated by the Financial Times as most innovative project in the “Corporate Strategy” section in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6974035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6974035", "title": "Japanese trademark law", "text": "Japanese trademark law\n\nJapanese trademark law is mainly enacted by . Under this Act, only registered trademarks establish a \"trademark\" right (Article 18), and examination procedure is necessary for trademarks to be registered (Article 14). Japan's first modern trade mark law was enacted in 1884. The current Trademark Act was enacted in 1958, and has been amended several times since then.\nOn the other hand, the protection for unregistered trademarks is provided by .\n\nThe definitive version of Japanese law is the text in the Japanese language. An official English-language translation of the law does not exist, but the Ministry of Justice Japan has the website \"Japanese Law Translation\", where you can search for Japanese laws and their unofficial English translation. IP laws such as Patent Act, Copyright Act, Trademark Act, Design Act and Unfair Competition Prevention Act are included there.\n\nIn addition, J-PlatPat offers the public access to IP Gazettes of the Japan Patent Office (JPO) free of charge through internet.\n\nReliable information on Japanese IP law in English is also provided by the websites of Intellectual Property High Court, Japan Patent Office, \"Transparency of Japanese Law Project\", European Patent Office, and Institute of Intellectual Property (IIP) of Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13934523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13934523", "title": "Jones v. City of Opelika (1942)", "text": "Jones v. City of Opelika (1942)\n\nJones v. City of Opelika, 316 U.S. 584 (1942), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that a statute prohibiting the sale of books without a license was constitutional because it covered not a religious ritual but only individuals who engaged in a commercial activity.\n\nThe city of Opelika, Alabama, charged Jones with violating a statute by selling books without a license. All licenses were subject to immediate revocation by the city without requiring advance notice. Jones, a Jehovah's Witness, alleged that his rights to both freedom of the press and freedom of religion were violated.\n\nWriting for the majority, Justice Reed wrote that individual rights must be balanced against competing rights of the state. He asserted that the fact that a person is engaged in disseminating religious materials does not place his action above regulation by the state. When people choose to use the vending of their religious books and tracts as a source of funds, the financial aspects of their transactions need not be wholly disregarded. To subject any religious or didactic group to a reasonable fee for their money-making activities does not require a finding that the licensed acts are purely commercial. It is enough that money is earned by the sale of articles.\n\nWhen traditional means of distribution are used by religious groups, they can be held to the same standards as non-religious groups. The court held that Jones had no standing to challenge that part of the statute because he did not have a license that was revoked arbitrarily by the state.\n\nThe two dissenting opinions, by Chief Justice Harlan Stone and Justice Frank Murphy, examined both the unlimited discretion of the authorities in Opelika to withdraw a license as well as the amount of fees charged in order to get a license. The majority had considered that the amount of fees ($25.00 annually in some cases or $2.50 per day in others) was irrelevant because the issue had not been argued earlier, but the dissenters thought the amount to be relevant.\n\nThe decision forced religious groups to meet the same requirements as nonreligious groups engaged in a similar activity. The fact that they were selling religious materials did not exempt them from statutes regulating commercial acts.\n\nIn the one paragraph \"per curiam\" decision \"Jones v. City of Opelika (II)\", 319 U.S. 103 (1943), the Court vacated \"Jones v. City of Opelika\" (1942) on the basis of the principles articulated in \"Murdock v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania\"; a state may not prohibit distribution of religious handbills where handbills seek to raise funds in a lawful fashion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7673316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7673316", "title": "Kai Puolamäki", "text": "Kai Puolamäki\n\nKai Puolamäki is a Finnish physicist and Internet activist. He has been a vocal spokesman of the Finnish anti-copyright movement.\n\nPuolamäki graduated from the University of Helsinki in 1996. In 2001 he presented his doctoral thesis titled \"Breaking of R-parity and supersymmetry in supersymmetric models\". His earlier publications in physics have included articles on the Higgs boson.\n\nSince 2003 his publications have concentrated on information technology and pattern recognition. He now works as researcher (equivalent to a North American assistant professor) at the Helsinki University of Technology in the Laboratory of Computer and Information Science (the former laboratory of Professor emeritus Teuvo Kohonen).\n\nPuolamäki is a founder and board member of Electronic Frontier Finland, the Finnish counterpart to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and has written many of the groups position papers. \nHe has been a regular expert witness on copyright issues at the Finnish Parliament.\n\nHe has coined the term \"copyright commandeering\" to refer to instances of misuse of claims of exclusive rights under copyright.\nIn 2006 he started the \"Anti-Commandeering Investigation, Training and Resources\" centre modeled on Anti-Piracy Investigation, Training and Resources centre of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) to register instances of copyright commandeering.\n\nIn addition to blogging, he regularly contributes to the Finnish language codice_1 and codice_2 Usenet hierarchies. He is the unofficial maintainer of the codice_2 hierarchy.\n\n"}
{"id": "464812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464812", "title": "Landsgemeinde", "text": "Landsgemeinde\n\nThe Landsgemeinde () or \"cantonal assembly\" is a public, non-secret ballot voting system operating by majority rule, which constitutes one of the oldest forms of direct democracy. Still at use – in a few places – at the subnational political level in Switzerland, it was formerly practiced in eight cantons. For practical reasons, the \"Landsgemeinde\" has been abolished at the cantonal level in all but two cantons where it still holds the highest political authority: Appenzell Innerrhoden and Glarus. The \"Landsgemeinde\" is also convened in some districts of Appenzell Innerrhoden, Grisons and Schwyz to vote on local questions.\n\nThe German term \"Landsgemeinde\" itself is attested from at least the 16th century, in the 1561 dictionary of Pictorius.\nIt is a compound from \"Land\" \"land, canton; rural canton\" and \"Gemeinde\" \"community, commune\".\n\nEligible citizens of the canton or district meet on a certain day in the open air to decide on specific issues. Voting is accomplished by those in favor of a motion raising their hands. Historically, or in Appenzell until the admission of women, the only proof of citizenship necessary for men to enter the voting area was to show their ceremonial sword or Swiss military sidearm (bayonet); this gave proof that you were a freeman allowed to bear arms and to vote.\n\nThe \"Landsgemeinde\" has been the sovereign institution of the Swiss rural cantons since the later Middle Ages, while in the city-cantons such as Lucerne, Schaffhausen, or Bern, a general assembly of all citizens was never established.\n\nSimilar assemblies in dependent territories were known under terms such as \"Talgemeinde\" (for \"Talschaften\", used in Ursern, Hasli, Obersimmental), \"Teding\" (Engelberg), \"Parlamento\" (Leventina), \"Zendgemeinden\" (for the \"Zenden\" or districts of Valais), but also as \"Landsgemeinde\" in Toggenburg and in parts of Grisons.\n\nAt the \"Landsgemeinde\", citizens of a district or canton assemble annually in a public space under open sky to vote on a series of ballot questions. Depending on the canton, they raise their hand or voter identification card to either accept or reject the motion, which constitutes a \"non-secret ballot\". \nDecision is taken by majority rule, and in case of incertitude, the Landammann estimates on which side the majority falls with the help of his colleagues from the communal council.\n\nThe duration of the \"Landsgemeinde\" varies significantly between the two cantons that still convene it. In Glarus, because of the high level of deliberation and possibility for citizens to propose an amendment of an existing law article or the introduction of a new one, the \"Landsgemeinde\" lasts between 2 and 4.5 hours on average. In Appenzell Innerrhoden on the other hand, deliberation is limited, thus the \"Landsgemeinden\" usually end after 1 to 2.5 hours.\n\nSymptomatic of the federalist system of Switzerland, the \"Landsgemeinde\" differs in the scope of its usage from canton to canton. The legislative power is concerned both in Appenzell Innerrhoden and Glarus, where the \"Landsgemeinde\" can be used to implement laws or modify the cantonal constitution. In Appenzell Innerrhoden, the \"Landsgemeinde\" can also cover governmental issues, while in Glarus tax laws are regulated by \"Landsgemeinde\" decision and alternative legislative counter-proposals (‘constructive referendums’) can be formulated by the citizens and voted on this occasion. In neither of the two cantons is the \"Landsgemeinde\" used to elect the parliament.\n\nThe \"Landsgemeinde\" assembly is a tradition with continuity back to the later Middle Ages, first recorded in the context of the formation of the Old Swiss Confederacy. The tradition ultimately continues the Germanic \"thing\", although not uninterruptedly, as the Alamanni had lost their independence to the Frankish Empire in the 8th century, but re-emerging in territories with imperial immediacy since the 13th century.\n\nThe first \"Landsgemeinde\" proper is attested for Uri in 1231; however, these early assemblies grew as it were seamlessly out of the older institution of blood courts (assemblies with the purpose of dispensing judgement on criminal offenses, see high justice).\nThe Middle Latin texts when recording a \"Landsgemeinde\" usually express this by making \"universitas\" \"the universality\", or \"communitas hominum\" \"the community of men\" of a certain canton the subject of a sentence (see, for example, the Federal Charter of 1291), in order to emphasize that the decision was made by the community (direct democracy) rather than by a political elite.\n\nIn the Old Swiss Confederacy, the existence of a \"Landsgemeinde\" was the defining feature of the rural cantons (\"Länderorte\", as opposed to the city-cantons).\nThese Cantons were: Uri, Schwyz, Unterwalden (the forest-cantons), Glarus and Appenzell and Zug.\nZug took an intermediate position, as it was a city-canton which due to the existence of a \"Landsgemeinde\" was also counted under the rural cantons.\n\nWith the formation of Switzerland as a federal state, the formerly sovereign cantonal assemblies became subject to federal law, and the \"Landsgemeinden\" came to be seen as anachronisms.\n\nThe usage of the \"Landsgemeinde\" was progressively abandoned at the cantonal level through the 19th and 20th century. Indeed, Zug and Schwyz jettisoned it in 1848, followed by Uri in 1928.\n\nNidwalden in 1996, Appenzell Ausserrhoden in 1997 and Obwalden in 1998 abolished their cantonal \"Landsgemeinde\" by secret ballot votes.\n\nCurrently, Appenzell Innerrhoden, which rejected in 1991 by \"Landsgemeinde\" the abolition of this institution, and Glarus are the only remaining cantons to use this form of direct democracy. Beside the 1991 vote of Appenzell Innerrhoden, the usage of the \"Landsgemeinde\" has since then never been questioned in these two cantons, which suggests that citizens are attached to their institution. Moreover, turnout rates remained constant in the last 50 years both in Appenzell Innerrhoden and in Glarus. In the latter canton a participation record of 50% was even recorded in 2001.\n\nGlarus recently introduced measures to encourage participation at the \"Landsgemeinde\". In 2007, participation was extended to citizens aged 16 and older, which constitutes an exception in Switzerland. Likewise, each year on the day of the \"Landsgemeinde\", participants can use all public transports of the canton for free.\n\nIn Appenzell Innerrhoden and Glarus, the modernization of the institution, for example through the potential introduction of electronic vote-counting systems is debated, but no political party is opposed to the maintenance of the \"Landsgemeinden\".\n\nBesides the cantonal assemblies, the Swiss Confederation is supporting various projects inspired by the \"Landsgemeinden\" and built on the same ideas. For instance, the 4th \"Cyber-Landsgemeinde\" was organised on April 6, 2016 in Bern, with the aim to use democratic deliberation to foster reflections and find solutions related to the topic of cyber-security. Likewise, the urban municipality of Kloten implemented in 2012 a version of the \"Landsgemeinde\" to deliberate on the allocation of funds to local projects, which enabled for example the construction of a new Kindergarten.\n\nThe \"Landsgemeinde\" forms one of the pillars of the direct democratic core of the Swiss political structure. Even if its use has sharply decreased in the past century, it is still considered as a characteristic institution of the Swiss democracy and is generally considered as a participative and inclusive democratic practice. However, while participation is according to the \"cantonal constitutions\" not only encouraged but also required as part of the civic duty of the concerned individuals, it is unclear if the \"Landsgemeinde\" offers better inclusivity and fosters a higher level of participation than the more traditional secret-ballot voting methods. Paul Lucardie (2014) notes for example that:\n\n\"Evidence suggests that attendance at assemblies in Appenzell and Glarus, as well as most town meetings in Vermont and possibly also in ancient Athens, has always been limited to roughly twenty per cent of the citizenry.\"\n\nMoreover, the inclusion of women was until recently one of the main concerns for the inclusivity of the \"Landsgemeinde\". Up to 1991, women were not allowed in the \"Landsgemeinde\" in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden, which was the last canton of Switzerland to grant women the right to vote, making it an exceptionally late introduction of women's suffrage for a European country.\n\nThere have been suggestions placing the \"Landsgemeinde\" system in the vicinity of \"ochlocracy\" or \"tyranny of the majority\".\nBlum and Köhler (2006) suggested there might only be a \"limited level of preliminary debate\" possible leading to a failure to consider minority opinions.\n\nThe open ballot system ostensibly fails to assure the secrecy of the vote\nSwitzerland has explicitly introduced an exception to article 25 of its International Pact on Civil and Political Rights in order to protect the \"Landsgemeinde\", avoiding to comply with the letter of article 21.3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights protecting the secrecy of the vote.\n\nSwitzerland has never ratified the first convention protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights for a similar reason.\n\nUnder such conditions, social control and other crowd manipulation processes might then prevent citizens from voting according to their own preferences and mislead rational decisions. On the other hand, according to the Greek antic tradition of parrhesia -literally \"saying everything\"- a public assembly could teach individuals to express their opinions with frankness and collective responsibility.\n\nStudies of outcomes of the \"Landsgemeinde\" in various administrative divisions (Schaub 2012, Gerber & Mueller 2014) seem to suggest that proper preliminary deliberation can help reach better decisions defined by the \"unforced force of the better argument\" (Habermas, 1992) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8932482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932482", "title": "Law in South America", "text": "Law in South America\n\nThe law of South America is one of the most unified in the world. All countries can be said to follow civil law systems, although recent developments in the law of Brazil suggest a move towards the \"stare decisis\" doctrine. Moreover, all countries have recently signed up to the Union of South American Nations agreement, which aims to establish a system of supra-national law along the lines of the European Union.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4688353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688353", "title": "New Democracy", "text": "New Democracy\n\nNew Democracy or the New Democratic Revolution is a concept based on Mao Zedong's \"Bloc of Four Social Classes\" theory in post-revolutionary China which argued originally that democracy in China would take a decisively distinct path, much different from that of the liberal capitalist and parliamentary democratic systems in the Western world as well as Soviet-style socialism in Eastern Europe. As time passed, the New Democracy concept was adapted to other countries and regions with similar justifications.\n\nThe concept of New Democracy aims to overthrow feudalism and achieve independence from colonialism. However, it dispenses with the rule predicted by Karl Marx that a capitalist class would usually follow such a struggle, claiming instead to seek to enter directly into socialism through a coalition of classes fighting the old ruling order. The coalition is subsumed under the leadership and guidance of the working class and its communist party, working with the communists irrespective of their competing ideologies in order to achieve the more immediate goal of a \"new democratic order.\" This was a view actually shared by Vladimir Lenin who had broken with the Mensheviks over the idea that the working class could organize and lead the \"Democratic Revolution\" in an underdeveloped country like Russia where the objective conditions for socialism did not yet exist. The Chinese communists hoped that the working class in a similar fashion could then build full-blown socialism and communism in spite of the competing class interests of the social classes of the \"bloc\".\n\nThe block of classes reflecting the principles of New Democracy is symbolized most readily by the stars on the flag of China. The largest star symbolizes the Communist Party of China's leadership and the surrounding four smaller stars symbolizing the Bloc of Four Classes: proletarian workers, peasants, the petty bourgeoisie (small business owners) and the nationally-based capitalists. This is the coalition of classes for Mao's New Democratic Revolution as he described it in his works. Mao's New Democracy explains the Bloc of Four Classes as an unfortunate but necessary consequence of imperialism as described by Lenin.\n\nThe classical Marxist understanding of the stages of economic and historical development of the modes of production under which a socialist revolution can take place is that the socialist revolution occurs only after the capitalist bourgeois-democratic revolution happens first. According to this, the bourgeois-democratic revolution paves the way for the industrial proletarian class to emerge as the majority class in society, after which it then overthrows capitalism and begins constructing socialism. Mao disagreed and said that the bourgeois-democratic revolution and the socialist revolution could be combined into a single stage, rather than two separate back-to-back stages. He called this stage New Democracy.\n\nMarx himself is often misunderstood on this topic as he did not postulate that strictly only after a bourgeois society has formed, a socialist revolution would become possible. Instead, most notably in a letter to Vera Zasulich, Marx suggested a form of revolutionary change in Russia at the time that is very much akin to Mao's thesis of New Democracy: \n\nOnce New Democracy has been established in the way Mao's theory outlines, the country is subsequently claimed to be ideologically socialist and working towards communism under the leadership of its leading communist party and its people are actively involved in the construction of socialism. Examples are the Great Leap Forward and the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution for what Mao viewed as the participatory democracy inherent in the New Democracy concept.\n\nBecause of New Democracy's nature as an \"intermediate stage\", it is considered a stepping-stone to socialism—an essentially two-stage theory of first New Democracy, then socialism. Given that the self-proclaimed ultimate goal of socialist construction is the creation of a stateless, classless and moneyless communist society, adding the New Democratic Revolution as a prerequisite stage arguably makes the whole process of the revolution a three-stage theory: first New Democracy, then socialism and finally communism.\n\nCurrently, the Shining Path, the New People's Army of the Philippines, and the Communist Party of India (Maoist) pursue similar actions pursuant to similar ideas, conducting active guerrilla warfare (\"people's war\") with the intent of establishing New Democracy. In 2006, the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) entered the government of Nepal using similar New Democratic reasoning and methods. However, it was expelled from the coalition in 2009 and its leader (who had been elected Prime Minister) was deposed, so since then the CPN(M) has oscillated between threatening to return to armed struggle and leading general strikes in Nepal using its still-considerable influence in the Nepalese labour movement.\n\nSome have argued that the \"Fast Track Land Reform Program\" in Zimbabwe represents the culmination of New Democracy there and these same people usually also say that ZANU-PF remains a genuinely socialist party.\n\nSome criticise New Democracy as class collaborationism or as a stage to replace the dictatorship of the proletariat, but Mao completely rejected this by saying: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19458964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458964", "title": "Nightwalker statute", "text": "Nightwalker statute\n\nNightwalker statutes were English statutes, in the era before modern policing, allowing or requiring night watchmen to arrest those found on the city streets and hold them until morning. As an example, the Statute of Winchester, adopted in 1285 and readopted or amended several times until its repeal in 1827, stated that \"if any stranger do pass by them, he shall be arrested until morning.\" Such power was interpreted to extend not only to the watchmen themselves, but also to assistants, and allowed the arrest and detention of all persons.\n\n"}
{"id": "4882106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4882106", "title": "Non-qualified stock option", "text": "Non-qualified stock option\n\nNon-qualified stock options (typically abbreviated NSO or NQSO) are stock options which do not qualify for the special treatment accorded to incentive stock options.\n\nIncentive stock options are only available for employees and other restrictions apply for them. For regular tax purposes, incentive stock options have the advantage that no income is reported when the option is exercised and, if certain requirements are met, the entire gain when the stock is sold is taxed as long-term capital gains.\n\nIn contrast, non-qualified stock options result in additional taxable income to the recipient at the time that they are exercised, the amount being the difference between the exercise price and the market value on that date.\n\nNon-qualified stock options are frequently preferred by employers because the issuer is allowed to take a tax deduction equal to the amount the recipient is required to include in his or her income.\n\nIf they have deferred vesting, then taxpayers must comply with special rules for all types of deferred compensation Congress enacted in 2004 in the wake of the Enron scandal known as Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.\n\n"}
{"id": "30296792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30296792", "title": "Open-core model", "text": "Open-core model\n\nThe open-core model is a business model for the monetization of commercially-produced open-source software. Coined by Andrew Lampitt in 2008, the open-core model primarily involves offering a \"core\" or feature-limited version of a software product as free and open-source software, while offering \"commercial\" versions or add-ons as proprietary software.\n\nThe concept of open-core software has proven to be controversial, as many developers do not consider the business model to be true open-source software. Despite this, open-core models are used by a large number of open-source software companies.\n\nSome open-core products require their contributors to sign a contributor license agreement, which either dictates that the copyright of all contributions to the product become the property of its owner, or that the product's owner is given an unlimited, non-exclusive license to use the contributions, but the authors retain copyright ownership. In an open-core scenario, these agreements are typically meant to allow the commercial owner of the product (which in some cases, is ultimately the copyright holder to all of its code, regardless of its original author) to simultaneously market versions of the product under open-source and non-free licenses. This is in contrast with more traditional uses of CLAs, which are meant solely to allow the steward of an open-source project to defend its copyright, or guarantee that the code will only ever be made available under open-source terms, thus protecting it from becoming open core.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32791576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32791576", "title": "Panamanian constitutional referendum, 1998", "text": "Panamanian constitutional referendum, 1998\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Panama on 30 August 1998. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending the 1972 constitution to allow the President to be re-elected. Only 34.3% voted in favour of the reforms, with a turnout of 65.4%.\n"}
{"id": "9331454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9331454", "title": "Ponosov's case", "text": "Ponosov's case\n\nPonosov's case is an action against Aleksandr Ponosov, a teacher and principal of a high school in Sepych village of Perm Krai of Russia. Aleksandr Ponosov was charged with illegal use of unlicensed copies of Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office on 12 computers being used in the school (article of the Russian Criminal Code) and of damnification of 266,593.63 rubles (about 10,000 USD) to Microsoft Corporation. The charges could result in 5 years of imprisonment. The unlicensed copies were pre-installed on the computers by the original equipment manufacturer prior to the school's purchase. Ultimately, Ponosov was found not guilty. This case caused significant controversy in Russian mass media and blogs as well as among Russian politicians and lawyers (especially copyright law experts).\n\nIn early 2005, Ponosov's school bought 20 new PCs with preinstalled Microsoft software. In late May 2006, a procursive inspection revealed unlicensed copies of Microsoft software on 12 of the 20 computers. When the academic year began in September 2006, students were taught information science in front of inoperative computers.\n\nPonosov pleaded not guilty in his first hearing.\n\nOn 9 January 2007, a second hearing was conducted in the town of Vereshchagino, Perm Krai before Judge Vera Barakina. The prosecution presented a bill of particulars as well as witnesses. Official representatives of the injured party, Microsoft Corporation, did not appear.\n\nA third hearing was held on 29 January 2007. Representatives of Microsoft's regional dealer stated that the employee who had sold the computers with unlicenesd copies of Windows was imposed a fine of 10,000 rubles (about 380 US dollars).\n\nDuring the fourth hearing on 12 February 2007 Ponosov refused to apologize to Microsoft in order to settle the case. The prosecution demanded that Ponosov be fined 3,000 rubles (about $115). Surprisingly, Judge Barakina closed the case on February 15 \"for insignificance\"; this left both parties unsatisfied with prosecutors deciding to appeal, on the basis that the decision was \"unlawful\", while Ponosov filed an appeal, demanding a not guilty verdict.\n\nOn 27 March 2007 Perm Krai court set aside the decision of the court of first instance and remitted the case for reconsideration.\n\nOn 7 May 2007 the trial court found that Ponosov had caused Microsoft damages of 266,000 roubles and ruled that Ponosov was guilty while fining him 5,000 roubles ($194.4).\n\nOn 19 December 2008 Perm Krai court repealed the sentence of Vereshchagino's court and found Ponosov not guilty.\n\nDuring a press conference in the Kremlin on 1 February 2007, Russian president Vladimir Putin said: “If the legislation which, as I see, is not very adequate, needs to be amended, then we will reflect on this. But to grab someone for buying a computer somewhere and start threatening him with prison, is complete nonsense, simply ridiculous.”\n\nOn 5 February 2007 Mikhail Gorbachev (ex-president of the USSR) and Alexander Lebedev (deputy of Russian State Duma) published in Novaya Gazeta an open letter to Bill Gates (chairman of Microsoft) requesting withdrawal of the action against Alexander Ponosov. Microsoft responded with statement from Microsoft Russia chairman Olga Dergunova that \"Microsoft did not instigate the prosecution against Mr. Ponosov. This case was initiated by Russian authorities under Russian law\" and that they \"do not believe that a case of this kind warrants criminal prosecution\".\n\nOn 3 February 2007, Microsoft Corporation's Russian office published a statement saying that Microsoft does not consider this case a malignant copyright violation, and Microsoft did not claim and would not claim in the future any civil suit against Ponosov.\n\nIn fall 2007 Russian authorities sponsored pilot usage of Linux-based software in the schools of Perm Krai, Tatarstan and Tomsk Oblast to see if it's possible to implement school computer studies relying on Open Source products.\n\nIn February 2008, Ponosov resigned as school headmaster and began researching the use of Open Source software in the Russian education system. He joined efforts with former parliamentarian Viktor Alksnis to start the Center of Free Technology, a non-profit initiative to work on such tasks.\n\nAs a result of the pilot programs, in October 2008, Russian officials mandated that all schools use open source software.\n\n"}
{"id": "3138892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3138892", "title": "Reckitt &amp; Colman Products Ltd v Borden Inc", "text": "Reckitt &amp; Colman Products Ltd v Borden Inc\n\nReckitt & Colman Ltd v Borden Inc [1990] 1 All E.R. 873, – also known as the Jif Lemon case – is a leading decision of the House of Lords on the tort of passing off. The Court reaffirmed the three part test (reputation and goodwill, misrepresentation, and damage) in order to establish a claim of passing off.\n\nper Slade LJ: Reckitt, sold lemon juice under the name \"Jif Lemon\" which came in plastic yellow container that was shaped like a lemon. Borden, a competitor, started to produce lemon juice in a similar lemon-shaped plastic container that was only slightly larger with a flattened side. Reckitt sued Borden for passing off their product as Jif Lemon juice.\n\nAt trial the Court found in favour of Reckitt, which was subsequently upheld at the Court of Appeal.\n\nAt the House of Lords, the Court upheld the previous judgments.\n\nLord Oliver, at page 880, reaffirmed the classic test for passing off:\n\n"}
{"id": "27483267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27483267", "title": "Renato Treves", "text": "Renato Treves\n\nRenato Treves (1907–1992) was born in Turin, Italy of a Jewish family. According to Vincenzo Ferrari, Treves \"devoted his first academic study to the diffusion of Claude Henri de Saint-Simon's (1760-1825) doctrines in Italy\" before turning his attention to the neo-Kantian movement and Hans Kelsen's Pure Theory of Law.\n\nTreves also exerted considerable influence on the development of the sociology of law in Italy and is one of the founders of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law.\n\nRenato Treves kept faith with a Weberian and Kelsenian vision of sociology of law, as distinct from legal science. He advocated empirical research as a means of testing theories critically and favoured open as opposed to closed social portraits of law. Primarily, he argued in favour of a perspectivist and relativistic vision of law and society, combating all kinds of absolutism in both science and politics, from a liberal socialist stance that he upheld in many of his writings.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43222954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43222954", "title": "Reset (TV series)", "text": "Reset (TV series)\n\nReset () is a 2014 South Korean television series starring Chun Jung-myung and Kim So-hyun. It aired on OCN from August 24 to October 26, 2014 on Sundays at 23:00 for 10 episodes.\n\nCha Woo-jin's first love, Seung-hee, was murdered 15 years ago. Obsessed with finding her killer, Woo-jin became a prosecutor and has since devoted his career to putting violent criminals behind bars. With ten days left before the statute of limitations on Seung-hee's case runs out, Woo-jin meets a 17-year-old high school girl named Jo Eun-bi who looks exactly like Seung-hee. Their meeting catalyzes a chain of events that lead Woo-jin nearer to uncovering the truth about the original crime, but Eun Bi's involvement in the investigation makes her the killer's new target.\n\n\n\"Note: This drama airs on cable channel / pay TV which has a relatively small audience compared to free-to-air TV / public broadcasters (KBS, MBC, SBS, and EBS).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "477757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477757", "title": "Russian Constitution of 1906", "text": "Russian Constitution of 1906\n\nThe Russian Constitution of 1906 refers to a major revision of the 1832 Fundamental Laws of the Russian Empire, which transformed the formerly absolutist state into one in which the emperor agreed for the first time to share his autocratic power with a parliament. It was enacted on 1906, on the eve of the opening of the first State Duma. This first-ever Russian Constitution was a revision of the earlier Fundamental Laws, which had been published as the Code of Laws of the Russian Empire (Russian: \"Свод законов Российской империи\", pre-1917 Russian orthography: \"Сводъ законовъ Россійской имперіи\") in 1832. It was granted during the Russian Revolution of 1905, in a last-ditch effort by the imperial government to preserve its own existence and keep the nation from sliding into all-out anarchy.\n\nThe new constitution provided for a bicameral Russian parliament, without whose approval no laws were to be enacted in Russia. This legislature was composed of an upper house, known as the State Council, and a lower house, known as the State Duma. Half of the members of the upper house were appointed by the Tsar, while the other half were elected by various governmental, clerical and commercial interests. Members of the lower house were to be chosen by different classes of the Russian people, through a complex scheme of indirect elections—with the system being weighted to ensure the ultimate preponderance of the propertied classes. While the Duma held the power of legislation and the right to question the Tsar's ministers, it did not have control over their appointment or dismissal, which was reserved to the monarch alone. Nor could it alter the constitution, save upon the emperor's initiative. The Tsar retained an absolute veto over legislation, as well as the right to dismiss the Duma at any time, for any reason he found suitable. The emperor also had the right to issue decrees during the Duma's absence—though these lost their validity if not approved by the new parliament within two months.\n\nThis charter had been granted under duress, and Nicholas abhorred its restrictions upon his power, which he had sworn at his coronation to pass on to his son. He dismissed the First and Second Dumas when they proved \"unsatisfactory\" to him, and unilaterally altered the election statutes (in violation of the constitution) to ensure that more landed persons would be elected to future Dumas. Although the resulting Third and Fourth Dumas proved more lasting, they still quarreled with the Tsar and his government over the general direction of state policy, and over the fundamental nature of the Russian state. Ultimately, with the outbreak of the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Duma took a leading role in bringing about the Tsar's abdication, which led in turn to the abolition of the monarchy and the ascent to power of the Russian Provisional Government under Kerensky.\n\nPrior to the enactment of the 1906 Russian constitution, the Russian Empire had been an absolute monarchy, ruled by an autocratic emperor, who was commonly referred to by his pre-imperial title of \"Tsar\". The precise regulations by which the Tsar exercised his imperial prerogatives were first codified in 1832, with the issuance of the \"Set of Laws of the Russian Empire\" (\"Свод законов Российскои империи\"), penned by Mikhail Speransky. These laws could be altered or repealed by the emperor. However, the autocratic Tsars were generally limited by two constraints: they and their spouses must profess the Russian Orthodox faith, and they must obey the laws of succession laid down by Emperor Paul I. Beyond that, the power of the Russian emperor was virtually limitless.\n\nAlthough a Boyar Duma had existed in Russia from Muscovite times until the rule of Peter I, it was an advisory institution, without legislative prerogatives. Peter abolished this organ in 1721, replacing it with the Governing Senate. This body consisted of nine (later ten) members, and was intended to oversee administration of the empire, under the direction of an Ober-Procurator, appointed (as were all members of this body) by the sovereign. The emperor might submit draft decree proposals to this committee for their deliberation and recommendations, but he was not bound to do so, nor was he required to accept their advice, once tendered. In later years, the Governing Senate took on an important role in administration and law, and by the late nineteenth century it had evolved into the highest judicial organ in Russia, with all officials and legal institutions under its control. Its decisions as to interpretation of the legal code, unless countermanded by the Tsar, were seen as absolutely authoritative. However, the Senate still remained at all times under the monarch's direct control: he named and dismissed its members, could alter its prerogatives, and was free to overrule its actions. As such, the Ruling Senate was never considered to be a \"parliament\" in the modern sense.\n\nVarious proposals for reform emerged during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries: Alexander I formed a Privy Committee to investigate introducing a parliament and ministerial system; the latter was eventually introduced, but the former foundered due to the Napoleonic Wars and opposition from conservative members of the nobility. Alexander did establish a State Council, with 35—later 60—members, whose major duty was the investigation, promulgation and abrogation of laws. Its four departments were:\n\n\nEach department had its own presiding officer (called a State Secretary) and met separately to discuss matters assigned to it. There were also plenary sessions of the whole Council, called to peruse laws proposed by the Tsar's ministers, who were ex-officio members. While most sessions concerned the budget and state expenditures, the Council would examine anything submitted to it. It had no authority to propose changes to existing laws, nor to investigate anything not initiated by the Tsar. Decision-making authority rested with the emperor, who appointed and dismissed members of the Council.\n\nAlexander's nephew Alexander II entertained reformist ideas, culminating in a project initiated by Count Mikhail Loris-Melikov, who had been appointed his Minister of Interior in August 1880. One of these proposals would have established two Imperial commissions, to be populated by indirectly elected members, who would advise the Emperor on further reforms. Alexander's assassination, on the very day he intended to sign this proposal into law, effectively killed all mention of legislative reform in Russia—as the murdered Tsar's son, Alexander III, insisted upon preserving the autocracy intact. Nicholas II, who succeeded his father in 1894, was also committed to maintain absolute monarchy, even in the face of ever-increasing calls for reform, peasant unrest, and the rise of revolutionary organizations within his empire. When reforms became inevitable, Nicholas would insist upon retaining as much of his previous authority as possible. For instance, faced with demands from municipal and provincial dumas for the establishment of a national legislative assembly, Nicholas offered only a broadening of the local councils' authority, insurance for factory workers, and the abolition of censorship. This was not considered nearly enough for the liberals, who agitated even more for a constitution and far-reaching political reforms.\n\nRussian defeat in the Russo-Japanese War of 1905 combined with a rising tide of revolutionary feeling in Russia to produce the Russian Revolution of 1905. This upheaval was initially provoked by Bloody Sunday, in which thousands of unarmed protesters (largely urban workers and intellectuals) seeking to present a petition to the Tsar were met by imperial troops, who opened fire on them and killed several. As word of this tragedy spread across the empire, it combined with the catastrophic Russian defeat in the Far East to incite a major uprising against the emperor's authority. Although the Tsarist army largely remained loyal to the emperor, close advisors to the Tsar became convinced that some kind of fundamental change in State administration was inevitable, if the monarchy was to survive.\n\nCount Sergei Witte, the Tsar's Minister of Finance and recent Russian plenipotentiary at the Treaty of Portsmouth negotiations (ending the war with Japan), was named chairman of the Tsar's Council of Ministers after returning home from New Hampshire. He proposed introduction of an elected legislature, the granting of basic civil rights, and the formation of a constitutional monarchy. Nicholas strenuously resisted these ideas, but gave in after his first choice to head a military dictatorship, Grand Duke Nicholas, threatened to shoot himself in the head if the Tsar did not accept Witte's suggestion. Nicholas unwillingly agreed, and issued what became known as the October Manifesto on 1905, promising basic civil rights and an elected parliament called the Duma, without whose approval no laws were to be enacted in Russia in the future.\n\nAccordingly, three proposed drafts were prepared for a revision of Speransky's Fundamental Laws. The Tsar chose to accept the draft authored by Peter Kharitonov, Deputy State Secretary of the State Chancellory, as the basis for the new constitution. Other constitutions from Austria-Hungary, Japan and Prussia were also studied, as was a draft constitution authored by the Union of Liberation, and published abroad. The State Chancellory prepared a draft, which was discussed during five sessions of the Council of Ministers, where alterations were made to further strengthen the emperor's prerogatives at the expense of the new parliament. Following this, the draft was further discussed and amended under the Tsar's chairmanship; Nicholas chose to officially publish this new constitution on 1906. With this act, Russia was officially transformed from an absolute monarchy into a constitutional one, though the exact extent of just \"how\" constitutional quickly became the subject of debate, based upon the emperor's subsequent actions.\n\nThe Russian Constitution of 1906 contained an introduction and eleven chapters: comprising a total of 124 articles:\n\n\n\nWith the abdication of Tsar Nicholas in February 1917 (Old Style), the government of Russia was initially taken over by a Provisional Government established by the Fourth Duma. Alexander Kerensky, who became the most prominent leader of this government, unilaterally abolished the Russian monarchy on 15 September 1917, thereby formally abrogating the 1906 Constitution. In October Russia was taken over by the Bolshevik party, leading ultimately to the establishment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on 30 December 1922. Prior to that time, the Communists had enacted a new constitution, firmly establishing Russia as a Bolshevik state. This was in turn superseded by the 1924 Soviet Constitution and the constitutions of 1937 and 1978, the last of which lasted until the fall of the Soviet Union and the adoption of Russia's current governing document in 1993, under which the nation is currently governed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13594329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13594329", "title": "Sacramentum (oath)", "text": "Sacramentum (oath)\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and law, the sacramentum was an oath or vow that rendered the swearer \"sacer,\" \"given to the gods,\" in the negative sense if he violated it. \"Sacramentum\" also referred to a thing that was pledged as a sacred bond, and consequently forfeit if the oath were violated. Both instances imply an underlying \"sacratio\", act of consecration.\n\nThe \"sacramentum\" differs from \"iusiurandum\", which is more common in legal application, as for instance swearing an oath in court. A \"sacramentum\" establishes a direct relation between the person swearing (or the thing pledged in the swearing of the oath) and the gods; the \"iusiurandum\" is an oath of good faith within the human community that is in accordance with \"ius\" as witnessed by the gods.\n\n\"Sacramentum\" is the origin of the English word \"sacrament\", a transition in meaning pointed to by Apuleius's use of the word to refer to religious initiation.\n\nIn Roman law, a thing given as a pledge or bond was a \"sacramentum\". The \"sacramentum legis actio\" was a sum of money deposited in a legal procedure to affirm that both parties to the litigation were acting in good faith. If correct law and procedures had been followed, it could be assumed that the outcome was \"iustum\", right or valid. The losing side had thus in effect committed perjury, and forfeited his \"sacramentum\" as a form of \"piaculum\", an expiatory sacrifice; the winner got his deposit back. The forfeited \"sacramentum\" was normally allotted by the state to the funding of \"sacra publica\", public religious rites.\n\nThe \"sacramentum militare\" (also as \"militum\" or \"militiae\") was the oath taken by soldiers in pledging their loyalty to the consul in the Republican era or later to the emperor. The \"sacramentum\" as pertaining to both the law and the military indicates the religious basis for these institutions.\n\nThe text of the oath was recorded by Vegetius:\n\nThe \"sacramentum\" that renders the soldier \"sacer\" helps explain why he was subjected to harsher penalties, such as execution and corporal punishment, that were considered inappropriate for civilian citizens, at least under the Republic. In effect, he had put his life on deposit, a condition also of the fearsome \"sacramentum\" sworn by gladiators. In the rare case of punishment by decimation, the surviving legionaries were often required to renew their oath, affirming the role of state \"religio\" as the foundation of Roman military discipline.\n\nBy the 3rd century the \"sacramentum\" was administered annually, on January 3, as attested by the calendar of state ritual discovered at Dura-Europos, the so-called \"Feriale Duranum\", which dates to the reign of Severus Alexander (222-235 CE). In the later empire, the oath of loyalty created conflict for Christians serving in the military, and produced a number of soldier-martyrs. Tertullian condemned any Christian soldier's willingness to swear the \"sacramentum\", since baptism was the only sacrament a Christian should observe.\n"}
{"id": "14670171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14670171", "title": "Scott Plous", "text": "Scott Plous\n\nScott Plous is an academic social psychologist, currently working as a Professor of Psychology at the Department of Psychology, Wesleyan University.\n\nHis areas of research include the psychology of prejudice and discrimination, judgment and decision making, international security and counter-terrorism, interactive web-based research, and the human use of animals and the environment. He is also the founder of the Social Psychology Network.\n\nPlous coined the term “action teaching” in 2000. In this article he presented action teaching as the pedagogical counterpart to action research, a term coined by Kurt Lewin in the aftermath of World War II (Marrow, 1969). This experience of action teaching, he says, “leads not only to a better understanding of psychology but to a more just, compassionate and peaceful world.” \n\nIn 2001, he published a study that evaluated the reliability of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs), and found that animal testing standards in the United States are widely inconsistent across different research institutions.\n\nPlous has published two books, and numerous journal articles, on social issues, animal rights, and psychology. He is best known as a founder of Social Psychology Network, a suite of nonprofit web sites supported by the National Science Foundation, created in 1996. Currently Plous also teaches social psychology online through Coursera's MOOC\n\n\n\nAwards\n\n"}
{"id": "1232658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1232658", "title": "Shechita", "text": "Shechita\n\nIn Judaism, shechita (anglicized: ; ; ; also transliterated \"shehitah, shechitah, shehita\") is slaughtering of certain mammals and birds for food according to \"kashrut\" (, , ).\n\nThe Torah () states that sheep and cattle should be slaughtered \"as I have instructed you\" but nowhere in the Five books of Moses are any of the practices of \"shechita\" described. Instead, they have been handed down in Judaism's traditional Oral Torah, and codified in halakha.\n\nThe animal must be of a permitted species. For mammals, this is restricted to ruminants which have split hooves. For birds, although biblically any species of bird not specifically excluded in would be permitted, doubts as to the identity and scope of the species on the biblical list led to\nrabbinical law permitting only birds with a tradition of being permissible.\nFish do not require kosher slaughter to be considered kosher, but are subject to other laws found in which determine whether or not they are kosher.\n\nIn the Talmudic era (beginning in 200 CE with the Jerusalem Talmud and 300 CE with the Babylonian Talmud and extending through the medieval ages), rabbis started to debate and define kosher laws. As the laws increased in number and complexity, following ritual slaughter laws became difficult for Jews who were not trained in those laws. This resulted in the need for a \"shochet\" (someone who has studied shechita extensively) to perform the slaughtering in the communities.\n\nThe \"shochtim\" (plural of \"shochet\") study which slaughtered animals are kosher, what disqualifies them from being kosher, and how to prepare animals according to the laws of shechita. Subjects of study include the preparation of slaughtering tools, ways to interpret which foods follow the laws of shechita, and types of \"terefot\" (unfit kosher animals).\n\nShochtim studied under rabbis to learn the laws of shechita. Rabbis acted as the academics who, among themselves, debated how to apply laws from the Torah to the preparation of animals. Rabbis also conducted experiments to determine under which terefot animals were no-longer kosher. Shochtim studied under these rabbis, as rabbis were the officials who first interpret, debate, and determine the laws of shechita.\n\nShochtim are essential to every Jewish community, so they earn elevated social status. In medieval ages, the shochtim were treated as second in social status, just underneath rabbis. Shochtim were respected for committing their time to studying and for their importance to their communities.\n\nThe procedure, which must be performed by a \"shochet\" (), involves severing the trachea, esophagus and, crucially, the large blood vessels of the neck, in a swift action using a special knife with an extremely sharp blade. The procedure may be performed with the animal either lying on its back (, \"shechita munachat\") or standing (, \"shechita me'umedet\").\nIn the case of fowl (with the exception of large fowl like Turkey) the bird is held in the non-dominant hand in such a way that the head is pulled back and the neck exposed, while the cut made with the dominant hand.\n\nThe procedure is done with the intention of causing a rapid drop in blood pressure in the brain and loss of consciousness, to render the animal insensitive to pain and to exsanguinate in a prompt and precise action. However, severing the carotid arteries and jugular veins does not cut blood flow to the brain of a bovine, because the brain is supplied with blood also by vertebral arteries. \n\nIf one did not sever the entirety of both the trachea and esophagus, then an animal may still be considered kosher as long as one severed the majority of the trachea and esophagus (windpipe and food pipe) of a mammal, or the majority of either one of these in the case of birds. The cut must be incised with a back and forth motion without violating one of the five major prohibited techniques (see below), or various other detailed rules.\n\n\nBreaching any of these five rules renders the animal \"nevelah\"; the animal is regarded in Jewish law as if it were carrion.\n\nTemple Grandin has observed that \"if the rules (of the five forbidden techniques) are disobeyed, the animal will struggle. If these rules are obeyed, the animal has little reaction.\"\n\nThe knife used for shechita is called a \"sakin\" (), or alternatively a \"hallaf\" () by Ashkenazi Jews. By biblical law the knife may be made from anything not attached directly or indirectly to the ground and capable of being sharpened and polished to the necessary level of sharpness and smoothness required for shechita. The Minhag now is to use a metal knife.\n\nThe knife must be at least slightly longer than the neck width but preferably at least twice as long as the animal's neck is wide, but not so long that the weight of the knife is deemed excessive. If the knife is too large, it is assumed to cause \"Derasah\", excessive pressing. Kosher knife makers sell knives of differing sizes depending on the animal. Shorter blades may technically be used depending on the number of strokes employed to slaughter the animal, but the normative practice today is that shorter blades are not used. The knife must not have a point. It is feared a point may slip into the wound during slaughter and cause \"Haladah\", covering, of the blade. The blade may also not be serrated, as serrations cause \"Iqqur,\" tearing.\n\nThe blade may not have imperfections in it. All blades are assumed by Jewish law to be imperfect, so the knife must be checked before each session. In the past the knife was checked through a variety of means. Today the common practice is for the shochet to run his fingernail up and down both sides of the blade and on the cutting edge to determine if he can feel any imperfections. He then uses a number of increasingly fine abrasive stones to sharpen and polish the blade until it is perfectly sharp and smooth. After the slaughter, the shochet must check the knife again in the same way to be certain the first inspection was properly done, and to ensure the blade was not damaged during shechita. If the blade is found to be damaged, the meat may not be eaten by Jews. If the blade falls or is lost before the second check is done, the first inspection is relied on and the meat is permitted.\n\nIn previous centuries, the hallaf was made of forged steel, which was not reflective and was difficult to make both smooth and sharp. Shneur Zalman of Liadi, fearing that Sabbateans were scratching the knives in a way not detectable by normal people, introduced the Hasidic \"hallaf\" (). It differs from the previously-used knife design because it is made of molten steel and polished to a mirror gloss in which scratches could be seen as well as felt. The new knife was controversial and one of the reasons for the 1772 excommunication of the Hasidim.\n\nThe animal may not be stunned prior to the procedure, as is common practice in non-kosher modern animal slaughter since the early twentieth century.\n\nIt is forbidden to slaughter an animal and its young on the same day. \nAn animal's \"young\" is defined as either its own offspring, or another animal that follows it around, even if of another species.\n\nThe animal's blood may not be collected in a bowl, a pit, or a body of water, as these resemble ancient forms of idol worship.\n\nIf the shochet accidentally slaughters with a knife dedicated to idol worship, he must remove an amount of meat equivalent to the value of the knife and destroy it. If he slaughtered with such a knife on purpose, the animal is forbidden as not kosher.\n\nThe carcass must be checked to see if the animal had any of a specific list of internal injuries that would have rendered the animal a treifah before the slaughter. These injuries were established by the Talmudic Rabbis as being likely to cause the animal to die within 12 months time. Today all mammals are inspected for lung adhesions ( \"examination of the lung\") and other disqualifying signs of the lungs, and most kosher birds will have their intestines inspected for infections. Further inspection of other parts of the body may be performed depending on the stringency applied and also depending on whether any signs of sickness were detected before slaughter or during the processing of the animal.\n\n\"Glatt\" () and \"halak\" () both mean \"smooth\". In the context of kosher meat, they refer to the \"smoothness\" (lack of blemish) in the internal organs of the animal. In the case of an adhesion on a cow’s lungs specifically, there is debate between Ashkenazic customs and Sephardic customs. While there are certain areas of the lung where an adhesion is allowed, the debate revolves around adhesions which do not occur in these areas.\n\nAshkenazic Jews rule that if the adhesion can be removed (there are various methods of removing the adhesion, and not all of them are acceptable even according to the Ashkenazic custom) and the lungs are still airtight (a process that is tested by filling the lungs with air and then submerging them in water and looking for escaping air), then the animal is still kosher but not \"glatt\". If, in addition, there were two or fewer adhesions, and they were small and easily removable, then these adhesions are considered a lesser type of adhesion, and the animal is considered \"glatt\". Ashkenazi custom permits eating non-\"glatt kosher\" meat, but it is often considered praiseworthy to only eat \"glatt\" kosher meat.\n\nSephardic Jews rule that if there is any sort of adhesion on the forbidden areas of the lungs, then the animal is not kosher. This standard is commonly known as \"halak Beit Yosef\". It is the strictest in terms of which adhesions are allowed.\n\nThe Rema (an Ashkenazi authority) had an additional stringency, of checking adhesions on additional parts of the lung which Sephardi practice does not require. Some Ashkenazi Jews keep this stringency.\n\n\"Porging\" refers to the halakhic requirement to remove the carcass's veins, \"chelev\" (caul fat and suet) and sinews. The Torah prohibits the eating of certain fats, so they must be removed from the animal. These fats are typically known as \"chelev\". There is also a biblical prohibition against eating the sciatic nerve (\"gid hanasheh\"), so that, too, is removed.\n\nThe removal of the \"chelev\" and the \"gid hanasheh\", called \"nikkur\", is considered complicated and tedious, and hence labor-intensive, and even more specialized training is necessary to perform the act properly. While the small amounts of \"chelev\" in the front half of the animal are relatively easy to remove, the back half of the animal is far more complicated, and it is where the sciatic nerve is located.\n\nIn countries such as the United States, where there exists a large nonkosher meat market, the hindquarters of the animal (where many of these forbidden meats are located) is often sold to non-Jews, rather than trouble with the process. This tradition goes back for centuries where local Muslims accept meat slaughtered by Jews as consumable; however, the custom was not universal throughout the Muslim world, and some Muslims (particularly on the Indian subcontinent) did not accept these hindquarters as halal. In Israel, on the other hand, specially trained men are hired to prepare the hindquarters for sale as kosher.\n\nBecause of the biblical prohibition of eating blood (, , ), all blood must be promptly removed from the carcass. All large arteries and veins are removed, as well as any bruised meat or coagulated blood. Then the meat is \"kasher\"ed, a process of soaking and salting the meat to draw out all the blood. If this procedure is not performed promptly, the blood is considered to have “set” in the meat, and the meat is no longer salvageable to eat except when prepared through broiling with appropriate drainage.\n\nA Biblical commandment states a shochet must give the foreleg, cheeks and maw to a Kohen even though he does not own the meat. Thus, it is desirable that the shochet refuse to perform the shechita unless the animal's owner expresses his agreement to give the gifts. Betei din (Rabbinical courts) have the authority to excommunicate a shochet who refuses to perform this commandment.\n\nThe Rishonim point out the Shochet cannot claim that, since the animal does not belong to him, he cannot give the gifts without the owner's consent. On the contrary, since the average shochet is reputed to be well versed and knowledgeable in the laws of Shechitah (\"Dinnei Shechita\"), Beith Din relies on him to withhold his shechita so long as the owner refuses to give the gifts:\n\nit is a positive commandment incumbent upon the shochet to cover the blood of חיות (non-domesticated animals) and עופות (birds) but not בהמות (domesticated animals). The shochet is required to place dirt on the ground before the slaughter and then to perform the cut over that dirt in order to drop some of the blood on to the prepared dirt. When the shechita is complete, the shochet grabs a handful of dirt, says a blessing and then covers the blood. The meat is still Kosher if the blood does not get covered; the covering of the blood is a separate mitzvah which does not affect the kosher status of the meat.\n\nThe practices of handling, restraining, and unstunned slaughter have been criticized by, among others, animal welfare organizations such as Compassion in World Farming. The UK Farm Animal Welfare Council said that the method by which Kosher and Halal meat is produced causes \"significant pain and distress\" to animals and should be banned. According to FAWC it can take up to two minutes after the incision for cattle to become insensible. Compassion in World Farming also supported the recommendation saying \"We believe that the law must be changed to require all animals to be stunned before slaughter.\" The UK government opted not to follow FAWC's recommendations after pressure from religious leaders. The Federation of Veterinarians of Europe has issued a position paper on slaughter without prior stunning, calling it \"unacceptable.\"\n\nNick Cohen, writing for the \"New Statesman\", discusses research papers collected by Compassion in World Farming which indicate that the animal suffers pain during the process. In 2009, Craig Johnson and colleagues showed that calves that have not been stunned feel pain from the cut in their necks, and they may take at least 10–30 seconds to lose consciousness. This has led to prohibitions against unstunned slaughter in some countries.\n\nGenerally these arguments are rejected by the Jewish community, who say that the method is humane and that criticism is at least partially motivated by antisemitism. A Knesset committee announced (January, 2012) that it would call on European parliaments and the European Union to put a stop to attempts to outlaw kosher slaughter.\n\"The pretext [for this legislation] is preventing cruelty to animals or animal rights – but there is sometimes an element of anti-Semitism and there is a hidden message that Jews are cruel to animals,\" said Committee Chair MK Danny Danon (Likud).\n\nStudies and experiments cited on the Jewish internet site Chabad.org include one conducted in 1994 by Dr. Temple Grandin - an Associate Professor of Animal Science at Colorado and a study completed in 1992 by Dr. Flemming Bager, Head of the Danish Veterinary Laboratory, which showed that when the animals were slaughtered in a comfortable position they appeared to give no resistance and none of the animals attempted to pull away their head. The studies concluded that the animals had no pain and were not even aware that their throats were cut.\n\nTemple Grandin – a leading designer of animal handling systems – gives various research times for loss of consciousness via kosher and halal ritual slaughter and elaborates on what parts of the process she finds may or may not be cause for concern. Grandin observes that the way animals are handled and restrained prior to slaughter likely has a greater impact on their welfare than whether or not they are stunned. For this reason, \"under the leadership of Grandin, research into animal welfare during slaughter has shifted away from examination of different techniques of stunning to a focus on auditing the performance of actual slaughter plants operating under commercial conditions.\"\n\nTemple Grandin is opposed to shackling and hoisting as a method of handling animals and wrote, on visiting a shechita slaughterhouse, \"I will never forget having nightmares after visiting the now defunct Spencer Foods plant in Spencer, Iowa, fifteen years ago. Employees wearing football helmets attached a nose tong to the nose of a writhing beast suspended by a chain wrapped around one back leg. Each terrified animal was forced with an electric prod to run into a small stall which had a slick floor on a forty-five degree angle. This caused the animal to slip and fall so that workers could attach the chain to its rear leg [in order to raise it into the air]. As I watched this nightmare, I thought, 'This should not be happening in a civilized society.' In my diary I wrote, 'If hell exists, I am in it.' I vowed that I would replace the plant from hell with a kinder and gentler system.\"\n\nEfforts are made to improve the techniques used in slaughterhouses. Temple Grandin has worked closely with Jewish slaughterers to design handling systems for cattle, and has said: \"When the cut is done correctly, the animal appears not to feel it. From an animal welfare standpoint, the major concern during ritual slaughter are the stressful and cruel methods of restraint (holding) that are used in some plants.\" When shackling and hoisting is used, it is recommended that cattle not be hoisted clear of the floor until they have had time to bleed out.\n\nThe prohibition of stunning and the treatment of the slaughtered animal expressed in shechita law limit the extent to which Jewish slaughterhouses can industrialize their procedures. The most industrialized attempt at a kosher slaughterhouse, Agriprocessors of Postville, Iowa, became the center of controversy in 2004, after People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals released a gruesome undercover video of cattle struggling to their feet with their tracheas and esophagi ripped out after shechita. Some of the cattle actually got up and stood for a minute or so after being dumped from the rotating pen. Dr. Temple Grandin, told Mason City, Iowa's \"Globe Gazette\", \"I thought it was the most disgusting thing I'd ever seen. I couldn't believe it. I've been in at least 30 other kosher slaughter plants, and I had never ever seen that kind of procedure done before. … I've seen kosher slaughter really done right, so the problem here is not kosher slaughter. The problem here is a plant that is doing everything wrong they can do wrong.\" While Agriprocessors has been criticized by both secular and Jewish organizations for both its human and animal rights violations, the Jewish Orthodox Union (OU) made note to point out that the kashrut of a product is not contingent upon \"the conditions in which it is produced. The OU's condonation of Agriprocessors as a possibly inhumane, yet appropriately glatt kosher company has led to discussion as to whether or not industrialized agriculture has undermined the place of halakha (Jewish law) in shechita as well as whether or not halakha has any place at all in Jewish ritual slaughter.\n\nJonathan Safran Foer, a Jewish vegetarian, narrated the short documentary film \"If This Is Kosher...\", which records what he considers abuses within the kosher meat industry. Forums surrounding the ethical treatment of workers and animals in kosher slaughterhouses have inspired a revival of the small-scale, kosher-certified farms and slaughterhouses, which are gradually appearing throughout the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20110191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20110191", "title": "Simla Accord (1914)", "text": "Simla Accord (1914)\n\nThe Simla Accord, or the Convention Between Great Britain, China, and Tibet, [in] Simla, was a treaty concerning the status of Tibet negotiated by representatives of the Republic of China, Tibet and the United Kingdom in Simla in 1913 and 1914.\n\nThe Accord provided that Tibet would be divided into \"Outer Tibet\" and \"Inner Tibet\". Outer Tibet, which roughly corresponded to Ü-Tsang and western Kham, would \"remain in the hands of the Tibetan Government at Lhasa under Chinese suzerainty\", but China would not interfere in its administration. \"Inner Tibet\", roughly, equivalent to Amdo and eastern Kham, would be under the jurisdiction of the Chinese government. The Accord with its annexes also defines the boundary between Tibet and China proper and between Tibet and British India (the latter became known as the McMahon Line).\n\nChina rejected the Accord and their plenipotentiary, Ivan Chen, withdrew on 3 July 1914. The British and Tibetan plenipotentiaries then attached a note denying China any privileges under the Accord and sealed it as a bilateral agreement the same day. The British records show that there are conditions for the Tibetan government to accept the new border in 1914, the condition was that China must accept the Simla Convention, since the British was not able to get an acceptance from China, Tibetans considered the McMahon Line invalid.\n\nMcMahon's work was initially rejected by the British government as incompatible with the 1907 Anglo-Russian Convention. This convention was renounced in 1921. The British began using the McMahon Line on Survey of India maps in 1937, and the Simla Accord was published officially in 1938.\n\nEarly British efforts to create a boundary for north-east India were triggered by their discovery in the mid-19th century that Tawang, an important trading town, was Tibetan territory. Britain had concluded treaties with Qing China concerning Tibet's boundaries with Burma and Sikkim. However, Tibet refused to recognise the boundaries drawn by these treaties. British forces led by Sir Francis Younghusband entered Tibet in 1904 and made a treaty with the Tibetans. In 1907, Britain and Russia acknowledged Chinese \"suzerainty\" over Tibet.\n\nBritish interest in the borderlands was renewed when the Qing government sent military forces to establish a Chinese administration in Tibet (1910–12). A British military expedition was sent into what is now Arunachal Pradesh and the North-East Frontier Agency was created to administer the area (1912). In 1912–13, this agency reached agreements with the tribal leaders who ruled the bulk of the region. After the fall of the Qing dynasty in China, Tibet government at Lhasa expelled all Chinese forces and declared itself independent (1913), however, this was not accepted by the newly founded Republic of China.\n\nIn 1913, the British convoked a conference at Simla, India to discuss the issue of Tibet's status. The conference was attended by representatives of Britain, the newly founded Republic of China, and the Tibetan government at Lhasa. The British plenipotentiary, Sir Henry McMahon, introduced the plan of dividing Tibetan-inhabited areas into \"inner Tibet\" and \"outer Tibet\" and apply different policies. \"Inner Tibet,\" which includes Tibetan-inhabited areas in Qinghai, Gansu, Sichuan and Yunnan provinces, would be under the jurisdiction of the Chinese government. \"Outer Tibet,\" covering approximately the same area as the modern \"Tibet Autonomous Region\" would enjoy autonomy. A boundary between Tibet and British India, later called the McMahon Line, was drawn on a map referred to in the treaty.\n\nThe Tibetan Indian boundary was negotiated in Simla between representatives from Britain and Tibet privately, in the absence of the Chinese representative. During the Simla conference a map of the Tibetan Indian border was provided as an annexe to the proposed agreement.\n\nThe contained further notes. For example, it was to be understood that \"Tibet forms part of Chinese territory\" and after the Tibetans selected a Dalai Lama, the Chinese government was to be notified and the Chinese commissioner in Lhasa would \"formally communicate to His Holiness the titles consistent with his dignity, which have been conferred by the Chinese Government\"; that the Tibetan government appointed all officers for \"Outer Tibet\", and that \"Outer Tibet\" was not to be represented in the Chinese Parliament or any such assembly.\n\nNegotiations failed when China and Tibet could not agree over the Sino-Tibetan boundary. After the Chinese plenipotentiary, Ivan Chen, withdrew from the convention, the British and Tibetan plenipotentiaries attached a note denying China any privileges under the agreement and signed it as a bilateral Accord. At the same time the British and Lochen Shatra signed a fresh set of trade Regulations to replace those of 1908.\n\nSimla was initially rejected by the Government of India as incompatible with the 1907 Anglo-Russian Convention. The official treaty record, C.U. Aitchison's \"A Collection of Treaties\", was published with a note stating that no binding agreement had been reached at Simla. Since the condition (agreement with China) specified by the accord was not met, the Tibetan government didn't agree with the McMahon Line. \nThe Anglo-Russian Convention was renounced by Russia and Britain jointly in 1921, but the McMahon Line was forgotten until 1935, when interest was revived by civil service officer Olaf Caroe. The Survey of India published a map showing the McMahon Line as the official boundary in 1937. In 1938, the British published the Simla Convention in Aitchison's \"Treaties\". A volume published earlier was recalled from libraries and replaced with a volume that includes the Simla Convention together with an editor's note stating that Tibet and Britain, but not China, accepted the agreement as binding. The replacement volume has a false 1929 publication date.\n\nIn April 1938, a small British force led by Captain G. S. Lightfoot arrived in Tawang and informed the monastery the district was now Indian territory. The Tibetan government protested and its authority was restored after Lightfoot's brief stay. The district remained in Tibetan hands until 1951.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the McMahon Line became a source of tension between China and India. China contends that Tibet was never an independent state and so it could not sign a treaty on behalf of China to delineate an international frontier. China and India fought the Sino-Indian War in 1962, which nevertheless preserved the status quo ante bellum. Australian journalist and historian Neville Maxwell exposed a top-secret Indian war report that harshly criticised the highest echelons of power in India at the time for pursuing a flawed strategy of provoking China into the war without the means to handle a backlash. The so-called Henderson Brooks-Bhagat Report was an operational review of India's military debacle commissioned by New Delhi that Maxwell managed to obtain. Compiled by Lieutenant-General Henderson Brooks and Brigadier Premindra Singh Bhagat in 1963, it has been kept secret by the Indian government despite repeated appeals that it be declassified. \n\nUntil 2008 the British Government's position remained the same that China held suzerainty over Tibet but not full sovereignty. It was the only state still to hold this view. David Miliband, the British Foreign Secretary, described the old position as an anachronism originating in the geopolitics of the early 20th century. Britain revised this view on 29 October 2008, when it recognised Chinese sovereignty over Tibet by issuing a statement on its website.\"The Economist\" stated that although the British Foreign Office's website does not use the word sovereignty, officials at the Foreign Office said \"it means that, as far as Britain is concerned, 'Tibet is part of China. Full stop.'\"\n\nThe British Government sees their new stances as an updating of their position, while some others have viewed it as a major shift in the British position. Tibetologist Robert Barnett thinks that the decision has wider implications. India's claim to a part of its north-east territories, for example, is largely based on the same agreements – notes exchanged during the Simla convention of 1914, which set the boundary between India and Tibet – that the British appear to have simply discarded. It has been speculated that Britain's shift was made in exchange for China making greater contributions to the International Monetary Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11516639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11516639", "title": "Social Law Library", "text": "Social Law Library\n\nThe Social Law Library, founded in 1803, is the second oldest law library in the United States. It is located in the John Adams Courthouse at Pemberton Square in Boston, Massachusetts, the same building which houses the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court and the Massachusetts Appeals Court.\n\nThe history of the library is very much bound up in the history of the Supreme Judicial Court itself. Many of the proprietors of the library were chief justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, including Theophilus Parsons, Lemuel Shaw, Horace Gray, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.. The library was also caught up in the debates between the Federalists, who wanted to see the common law (based on English law) received into the newly formed United States, and the Jeffersonians, who preferred to have a civil law-based system similar to the Napoleonic Code. The Federalists, who were prominent in Boston and integral to the library's founding, began importing English law books for local lawyers to use. The Supreme Judicial Court, needing a law library for their own use, permitted the library to be moved into the Court's offices in exchange for access to its many volumes. Meanwhile, the Massachusetts General Court (the state legislature of Massachusetts) established the office of Reporter of Decisions, which was the first office of its kind at the state level in the United States, and the first officially reported decision was \"Gold v. Eddy\" (1804). This turn of events allowed the public greater access to the decisions of the courts of Massachusetts, and in turn popularized the common law legal system in the United States.\n\nToday, many lawyers in the Boston area use the library for legal research. Members pay a yearly fee for the privilege of being admitted to the library and using its facilities, with the exception of state, court or non-profit legal services organizations members. The library has over 450,000 volumes of printed materials, most of which can be searched using an online catalog accessible via the library's web site.\n\n"}
{"id": "32812696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32812696", "title": "Surinamese constitutional referendum, 1987", "text": "Surinamese constitutional referendum, 1987\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Suriname on 30 September 1987. Voters were asked to approve the country's new constitution. It provided for a 51-seat unicameral National Assembly elected by proportional representation, a President elected by the National Assembly. Over 96% voted in favour, with a turnout of 62.7%.\n"}
{"id": "35356646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35356646", "title": "Treaty of Kyakhta (1915)", "text": "Treaty of Kyakhta (1915)\n\nSigned on 25 May 1915, the Treaty of Kyakhta was a tri-party treaty between Russia, Mongolia, and China.\n\nRussia and China recognized Outer Mongolia's autonomy (as part of Chinese territory); Mongolia recognized China's suzerainty; Mongolia could not conclude international treaties with foreign countries regarding political and territorial questions.\n\nThe Mongolian representative, Prime Minister Tögs-Ochiryn Namnansüren, was determined to stretch autonomy into de facto independence, and to deny the Chinese anything more than vague, ineffectual suzerain powers. The Chinese sought to minimize, if not to end, Mongolian autonomy. Mongolians viewed the treaty as a disaster because it denied the recognition of a truly independent, all-Mongolian state. Nevertheless, Outer Mongolia remained effectively outside Chinese control and, according to explanation by baron B.E. Nolde, the Director of Law Section of the Russian Foreign Ministry, had all necessary attributes of the state in the international law of that time.\nThe treaty severely curtailed the independent status of Mongolia declared in 1911, but eventually became moot after the October Revolution of 1917, and the declaration of the Mongolian People's Republic in 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "53924840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53924840", "title": "United States v. Morgan (1954)", "text": "United States v. Morgan (1954)\n\nUnited States v. Morgan, 346 U.S. 502 (1954), is a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court which provides the writ of coram nobis as the proper application to request federal post-conviction judicial review for those who have completed the conviction's incarceration.\n\nThe ancient writ of coram nobis originated in the English judicial system during the sixteenth century. If a court discovered a factual mistake or error after the conclusion of a case, the writ could be issued by the court to correct the error. The writ of coram nobis was identical to the writ of habeas corpus; except, the writ of habeas corpus was reserved exclusively for those who were held in prisons, and the writ of coram nobis was available to everyone else.\n\nThe Judiciary Act of 1789 provided courts in the United States the authority to issue writs to achieve justice as long as the writ does not conflict with constitutional rights or legislative statutes. (In 1911, the authorization of the federal judiciary to issue writs was modified into 28 U. S. C. § 1651(a) and is known as the “all-writs section of the Judicial Code”.) In 1946, the writ of coram nobis was considered obsolete when Congress added Rule 60(e) to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure which specifically abolished the writ of coram nobis in civil cases. Until this time, federal courts only used the writ of coram nobis to correct errors in federal civil cases because errors in federal criminal cases could be corrected with a writ of habeas corpus. Thus, in its 1947 decision, \"United States v. Smith\", the Supreme Court observed “it is difficult to conceive of a situation in a federal criminal case today where [the writ of coram nobis] would be necessary or appropriate.” \n\nQuestions about whether the writ of coram nobis would be necessary or appropriate resurfaced just one year later with the Act of June 25, 1948 which codified existing federal habeas corpus statutes and provided only those individuals in-custody access to the writ of habeas corpus. Prior to the Act of June 25, 1948, the writ of habeas corpus was the sole application for United States federal courts to review convictions of those who had completed their incarceration. Following the Act of June 25, 1948, federal courts were left to decide whether the act eliminated any review of convictions for those who had completed their incarceration or whether the writ of coram nobis (which had been limited to reviews of civil cases in US federal courts) could be expanded to include reviews of criminal cases for those who had completed their incarceration.\n\n\"Morgan\" resolved these questions by determining that those who had completed their incarceration could challenge their conviction through the writ of coram nobis. Although the Supreme Court states in \"Carlisle v. United States\", “it is difficult to conceive of a situation in a federal criminal case today where [the writ of coram nobis] would be necessary or appropriate [for prisoners and others serving out a term of a federal conviction],” \"Morgan\" provides when the writ of coram nobis is necessary or appropriate for those who are no longer in-custody.\n\nIn 1939, nineteen-year-old Robert Patrick Morgan pled guilty to stealing three letters from the US Post Office and was sentenced in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York to four years in federal prison; however, Morgan’s constitutional rights were violated because he was not provided an attorney nor did he waive his constitutional right to an attorney. Unfortunately for Morgan, he was unaware that his constitutional rights were violated until after he had completed his sentence. In 1950, Morgan was convicted of attempted burglary in a New York county court. As a result of his 1939 federal conviction, the county court applied New York’s Multiple Offenders Law and sentenced Morgan to seven to ten years at Attica Prison.\n\nIn 1952, Morgan first became aware of the constitutional violations related to his 1939 federal conviction. As a result, he petitioned the district court for the writ of coram nobis. If successful, his state sentence would be reduced because he would no longer be considered a multiple offender. The district court denied Morgan’s petition on the ground that the coram nobis petition was to be treated as a habeas corpus petition under 28 U.S.C. § 2255, which was unavailable to Morgan because he was no longer in federal custody. Morgan appealed the district court’s decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The case was argued before the appellate court on January 13, 1953. On February 5, 1953, the three-judge panel unanimously determined that Morgan was entitled to the writ of coram nobis and reversed the district court’s decision. Following the appellate court’s decision, the attorney’s office for the United States petitioned and was granted a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court.\n\n\"United States v. Morgan\" was argued on October 19, 1953 and decided January 4, 1954. In a 5-4 decision, the Court agreed with the Second Circuit and held that federal courts have the authority under the all-writs section of the Judicial Code to issue the writ of coram nobis to those who are no longer in custody. Justice Stanley Reed wrote for the majority in \"Morgan\", which held:\n\n Federal appellate courts are currently divided on the deadline to file an appeal of a district court’s decision of a case to petition for a writ of coram nobis. Most appellate courts provide 60 days to file an appeal; two other courts provide only 10 days to file an appeal. The source of this controversy is found in footnote 4 of the \"Morgan\" decision in which the Court held the writ of coram nobis “is a step in the criminal case” and also “of the same general character as one under 28 U.S.C. § 2255.”\n\nThe Second, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Tenth circuit courts held that the civil time limit should apply to coram nobis appeals because the writ of coram nobis is \"of the same general character\" as the writ of habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. § 2255. Habeas corpus petitions follow time limit guidelines of the civil rule which provides a 60-day time period to file an appeal. However, the Eighth and Ninth circuit courts held that a writ of coram nobis is governed by the criminal time limit for filing appeals because it a \"step in a criminal case.\" Criminal rules of appellate procedure only provide a 10-day time period to file an appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "18605898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18605898", "title": "Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld", "text": "Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\n\nWeinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U.S. 636 (1975), was a decision by the United States Supreme Court, which unanimously held that the gender-based distinction under of the Social Security Act of 1935—which permitted widows but not widowers to collect special benefits while caring for minor children—violated the right to equal protection secured by the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nStephen Wiesenfeld and Paula Polatschek were married in 1970. Stephen ran a minicomputer consulting business and had an irregular income. Paula taught mathematics at Edison High School and earned significantly more than her husband. When Paula died in childbirth from an amniotic embolism, Stephen became the sole provider for their newborn son, Jason. To take care of his son, Stephen cut his work hours and sought child care. Wiesenfeld contested his ineligibility for Social Security survivors' benefits that were made available to widows, but not to widowers.\n\nRutgers Law School professor Ruth Bader Ginsburg, along with Melvin Wulf, took on \"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\" after several unfavorable Supreme Court decisions on gender discrimination cases. In 1974, \"Kahn v. Shevin\" had upheld differences in property tax exemption between widows and widowers, and the Supreme Court ruled in \"Geduldig v. Aiello\" that denying compensation from work loss due to pregnancy did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Ginsburg looked to \"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\" to promote the idea of \"the care of two loving parents, rather than just one.\"\n\nGinsburg made the argument that Section 402(g) of the Social Security Act discriminated against Stephen Wiesenfeld by not providing him with the same survivors' benefits as it would to a widow. Further, Ginsburg argued that Paula's contributions to Social Security were not treated on an equal basis to salaried men, so she was also being discriminated against.\n\nThe Court decided unanimously in favor of Wiesenfeld. They declared that Section 402(g) of the Social Security Act was unconstitutional on the grounds that the gender based distinctions violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. \n\nJustice Brennan wrote in the Court's opinion:\nThe Court differentiated the Social Security matter from the decision in \"Kahn v. Shevin\". The court decided that Section 402(g):\n\nWiesenfeld himself received no monetary benefits from the decision. By the time he initiated the case, he had shut down his consulting business and obtained a well-paid position at a computer company. His salary thus exceeded the income cutoff for receiving Social Security benefits.\n\nGinsburg helped highlight the idea that the social security provision had discriminated against men acting as caregivers, and women serving as breadwinners. Brennan ruled that \"such a gender-based generalization cannot suffice to justify the denigration...of women who do work and whose earnings contribute significantly to their families' support.\" The decision aimed to establish that it is just as important for a child to be cared for by the male parent, as they will encounter the same difficulties in parenting as the female parent. The court's ruling challenged the traditional male breadwinner/female homemaker model in terms of allocating government benefits.\n\nThough \"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\" was considered a victory for feminists, the court still was unclear on distinguishing between sex-based classifications that were damaging to women and those that nurtured sexual equality. Gender based social security questions would continue to be explored further in cases such as \"Califano v. Goldfarb\", which Ginsburg was also involved in, and later in \"Califano v. Webster\", for which \"Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld\" had helped lay important groundwork.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44852822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852822", "title": "Western Oregon Indian Termination Act", "text": "Western Oregon Indian Termination Act\n\nThe Western Oregon Indian Termination Act or Public Law 588, was passed in August 1954 as part of the United States Indian termination policy. It called for termination of federal supervision over the trust and restricted property of numerous Native American bands and small tribes, all located west of the Cascade Mountains in Oregon.\nThe act also called for disposition of federally owned property which had been bought for the administration of Indian affairs, and for termination of federal services which these Indians received under federal recognition. The stipulations in this act were similar to those of most termination acts.\nThe Western Oregon Indian Termination Act was unique because of the number of tribes it affected. In all, 61 tribes in Western Oregon were terminated, more than the total tribes terminated under all other individual acts. However, it appears that authorities named every tribe that had been named in various treaties over the years. A review of the 1890 and 1930 censuses shows that several of the named tribes in the termination act reported no members. In addition, the history of the area, with the Coastal Reservation being established by Executive Order and not treaty, then separated into the Siletz and Grande Ronde Reservations, then those two reservations being combined, and yet again separated, makes the situation complicated and difficult to ascertain specific data.\n\nThe 1930 census report notes that there were people who reported that they were Indian but did not denote a tribe in almost every state. In addition, it combines groups into language stock and tribes; however, \"tribe\" may reflect all speakers rather than separate bands and tribes. The total number of Indians affiliated with the language groups were as follows:\nThe totals in Oregon for 1930 were 1,564. In comparison, the numbers for the 1910 census for these same groups represented a population of 2,304. On June 22, 1956, the final roll of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz contained 929 names. On April 14, 1956, the Federal Register published the final roll of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde which contained 862 names. The combined total of these two confederations' population was 1,791, though there may well have been scattered native peoples in the coastal region who were not affiliated with these reservations.\n\nThere were five restoration acts that restored all of the bands who had tribe members that had been located on the Grand Ronde or Silez Reservations. Some of these tribes were restored with those acts and later obtained their own federal recognition. The Chinook Indian Nation, made up of 4 bands: the Cathlamet, Clatsop, Wahkiakum (in Washington State) and Lower Columbia Chinook (in Washington State) are seeking separate tribal recognition.\n"}
