{"id": "12974109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12974109", "title": "1,000 Places to See in the USA and Canada Before You Die", "text": "1,000 Places to See in the USA and Canada Before You Die\n\n1,000 Places to See in the USA and Canada Before You Die (, 2007) is a book written by Patricia Schultz as a follow up book to \"1,000 Places to See Before You Die\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16152959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16152959", "title": "4263 Abashiri", "text": "4263 Abashiri\n\n4263 Abashiri, provisional designation , is a stony Flora asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 8 kilometers in diameter.\n\nThe asteroid was discovered on 7 September 1989, by Japanese astronomers Masayuki Yanai and Kazuro Watanabe at Kitami Observatory in eastern Hokkaidō, Japan. It was named for the Japanese city of Abashiri.\n\n\"Abashiri\" is a member of the Flora family, one of the largest groups of stony asteroids in the main-belt. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 1.9–2.5 AU once every 3 years and 4 months (1,220 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.14 and an inclination of 6° with respect to the ecliptic. Due to a precovery obtained at Palomar Observatory in 1951, the asteroid's observation arc could be extended by 38 years prior to its discovery.\n\n\"Abashiri\" has been characterized as a stony S-type asteroid.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2016, three rotational lightcurves of \"Abashiri\" were obtained by Czech astronomer Petr Pravec at Ondřejov Observatory. Lightcurve analysis gave a well-defined rotation period of between 4.8817 and 4.88230 hours with a corresponding brightness variation between 0.11 and 0.42 magnitude ().\n\nAccording to the survey carried out by NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Abashiri\" measures 9.0 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo of 0.20, while the \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes an albedo of 0.24, derived from 8 Flora, the Flora family's largest member and namesake, and calculates a somewhat smaller diameter of 7.2 kilometers.\n\nThis minor planet was named for the Japanese city of Abashiri, known for its fishing industry. It is located at the Sea of Okhotsk, about 50 kilometers east of Kitami, in the eastern part of the island of Hokkaidō. The minor planets, 3720 Hokkaido and 3785 Kitami are named after the island and city, respectively. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 21 November 1991 .\n\n"}
{"id": "27742018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742018", "title": "Alexander &amp; Ilse Melamid Medal", "text": "Alexander &amp; Ilse Melamid Medal\n\nThe Alexander & Ilse Melamid Medal was established in 2002 by a gift from Ilse Melamid. It is awarded by the American Geographical Society for \"outstanding work on the dynamic relationship between human culture and natural resources.\"\n\nAlexander Melamid was a member of the American Geographical Society Council from 1975 until his death in 2001. He served as Vice President from 1980 through 1992 and as Chair of the Honors Committee from 1981 throughout 1988. He was awarded the Samuel Finley Breese Morse Medal by the American Geographical Society in 1941.\n\nIlse Melamid was elected to the board of governors of the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science. She is a trustee of the Alexander and Ilse Melamid Charitable Foundation and a former registrar of the Graduate Faculty. She received her B.A. from Melbourne University, Australia.\n\nThe following people received the award in the year specified:\n"}
{"id": "734543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734543", "title": "Amsterdam Ordnance Datum", "text": "Amsterdam Ordnance Datum\n\nAmsterdam Ordnance Datum or (NAP) is a vertical datum in use in large parts of Western Europe. Originally created for use in the Netherlands, its height was used by Prussia in 1879 for defining \"\", and in 1955 by other European countries. In the 1990s, it was used as the reference level for the United European leveling Network (UELN) which in turn led to the European Vertical Reference System (EVRS).\n\nMayor Johannes Hudde of Amsterdam in a way came up with the idea after he expanded the sea dike after a flood in Amsterdam in 1675. Of course a dike should be storm-resistant to protect a city against flooding, and in this case a margin of \"9 feet and 5 inches\" (2.67 m - margin is defined in Amsterdam feet) was deemed enough to cope with rising water. So he measured the water level of the adjacent sea arm, ' and compared it with the water level in the canals within the city itself. He found that the water level at an average summer flood in the sea arm (when the water level reaches its maximum, not counting storms) was about the same as the level on the other side of the sea-dike, plus the margin of 9 feet and 5 inches. The relatively constant water level in the canals of Amsterdam, called ' (\"Amsterdam level\", AP), equalled the level at summer flood at sea in the sea-inlet, which changes throughout the year. AP was carried over to other areas in the Netherlands in 1860, to replace locally used levels. In this operation, an error was introduced which was corrected (normalised) between 1885 and 1894, resulting in the \"\".\n\nOriginally the zero level of NAP was the average summer flood water level in the IJ just north of the centre of Amsterdam (which was at the time, in 1684, the main shipping area, then still connected with the open sea). Currently it is physically realised by a brass benchmark on a 22-meter pile below the Dam square in Amsterdam. The brass benchmark in the Amsterdam Stopera (combined city hall and opera house), which is a tourist attraction, is no longer used as a reference point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55467271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55467271", "title": "Arapovac, Croatia", "text": "Arapovac, Croatia\n\nArapovac is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "29333057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29333057", "title": "Bowers Canyon", "text": "Bowers Canyon\n\nBowers Canyon () is an undersea canyon west of Iselin Bank in the Ross Sea. It was named in association with Bowers Glacier by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in April 1980.\n"}
{"id": "26765218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26765218", "title": "Bret Wallach", "text": "Bret Wallach\n\nBret Wallach is an American cultural geographer, and professor at University of Oklahoma.\n\nHe graduated from University of California, Berkeley with an A.B. in 1964, M.A. in 1966, and Ph.D. in 1968. He taught at the University of Victoria, Pennsylvania State University, University of California, Riverside, and University of Maine at Fort Kent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13607507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607507", "title": "Caribbean bioregion", "text": "Caribbean bioregion\n\nThe Caribbean bioregion is a biogeographic region that includes the islands of the Caribbean Sea and nearby Atlantic islands, which share a fauna, flora and mycobiota distinct from surrounding bioregions.\n\nThe Caribbean bioregion, as described by the World Wildlife Fund, includes the Greater Antilles (Cuba, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and Jamaica), the Lesser Antilles, the Lucayan archipelago (Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands), and Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao. The Lucayan archipelago lies north of the Caribbean in the Atlantic Ocean, but is part of the bioregion based on its flora and fauna. The bioregion does not include Trinidad and Tobago; these islands rest on South America's continental shelf, and have been historically part of the South American continent. Trinidad and Tobago are part of the Orinoco bioregion\n\nThe climate of the ecoregion is tropical, and varies from humid to arid. Geology and topography also vary, with larger mountainous islands of continental rock, volcanic islands, and low-lying coral and limestone islands. The bioregion includes tropical moist forests, tropical dry forests, tropical pine forests, flooded grasslands and savannas, xeric shrublands, and mangroves.\n\nThe Caribbean bioregion's distinct fauna, flora and mycobiota was shaped by long periods of physical separation from the neighboring continents, allowing animals, fungi and plants to evolve in isolation. Other animals, fungi and plants arrived via long-distance oceanic dispersal or island hopping from North America and South America.\n\nThe bioregion has a large number of plant species, including many endemics. There are about 200 endemic genera of plants. Wallenia, the largest endemic genus, has 30 species, and 6 other genera have 10 or more species.\n\nThree mammal families are endemic to the bioregion; the Solenodontidae includes two species of \"Solenodon\", one species on Cuba, the other on Hispaniola. Fossil evidence shows that the family was once more widespread in North America. Family Nesophontidae, or the West Indian shrews, contained a single genus, \"Nesophontes\", which inhabited Cuba, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico and the Cayman Islands. All members of the family are now believed to be extinct. The Capromyidae, or hutias, include a number of species, mainly from the Greater Antilles. Many other rodents of the Caribbean are also restricted to the region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33273182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33273182", "title": "Conference of Latin Americanist Geographers", "text": "Conference of Latin Americanist Geographers\n\nThe Conference of Latin Americanist Geographers (CLAG) was formed in 1970 to foster geographic education and research on Latin America. A Board of Directors governs CLAG. CLAG publishes a Newsletter and the \"Journal of Latin American Geography\". It also operates CLAGNET, an electronic Listserv for members.\n\nThe Syracuse University Archives preserve documents and photographs related to the history of the organization because the long-standing Executive Director, David J. Robinson, is a professor at that university.\nEach year CLAG makes several awards to distinguished Latin Americanist geographers and others.\n\nCLAG also makes awards to graduate students to support research and conference travel.\nCLAG organizes a conference on a regular basis. The conference typically takes place in the Americas but in 2001 met in Benicassim, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "4858900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4858900", "title": "District municipality", "text": "District municipality\n\nA district municipality is a designation for a class of municipalities found in several locations, including Canada, Lithuania, and South Africa.\n\nUnder provincial law, municipalities in British Columbia are to be designated \"district municipalities\" on incorporation if the area to be incorporated is greater than 800 hectares (8 km²) and has an average population density of less than 5 persons per hectare (500 persons per km²). Municipalities may be incorporated under different classifications under the direction of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, as is the case with the District of North Vancouver.\n\nIn Nova Scotia, a district municipality is one of four municipal status types. District municipalities and county municipalities are further considered rural municipalities. The province's twelve district municipalities were created in 1879 from six historical counties. They are referred to as municipal districts by Statistics Canada.\n\nCurrently, only one district municipality exists in Ontario – District Municipality of Muskoka. It was formerly a district, but has undergone heavy urbanization and development, particularly from tourism, as it is the heart of Ontario's cottage country. As a result, it was \"upgraded\" from a district (such as neighbouring Parry Sound District) to having powers similar to a regional municipality, such as York Regional Municipality.\n\nIn South Africa, district municipalities are administrative divisions of a province. South Africa recognizes three types of municipality; metropolitan, district and local. District municipalities are made up of a number of local municipalities. The vast majority of land consists of district municipalities, with metropolitan municipalities being reserved for large cities and the areas around them. There are eight metropolitan municipalities, and 44 district municipalities subdivided into 226 local municipalities.\n"}
{"id": "47262517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262517", "title": "Dobrodol, Croatia", "text": "Dobrodol, Croatia\n\nDobrodol is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "43877175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43877175", "title": "Euphrates Region", "text": "Euphrates Region\n\nEuphrates Region, formerly Kobanî Canton, (, , ), is the central of three regions of the de facto autonomous Democratic Federation of Northern Syria, factually comprising Ayn al-Arab District of the Aleppo Governorate, Tell Abyad District of the Raqqa Governorate, and the westernmost tip of Nahiya Ras al-Ayn of the Ras al-Ayn District of Al-Hasakah Governorate. Euphrates Region unilaterally declared autonomy in January 2014 and since \"de facto\" is under direct democratic government in line with the polyethnic Constitution of Rojava. \n\nThe regional capital city is Kobanî, which was under siege between October 2014 and January 2015 by ISIL.\n\nThe region has two subordinate cantons, the Kobani canton consisting of the Sarin area (with the al-Jalabiya district subordinate to it) and the Kobani area (with the Şêran and the Qenaya districts subordinate to it), as well as the Tel Abyad canton (with the Ain Issa and Suluk districts subordinate to it).\n\nThe region is bordered by Euphrates river to the west, Urfa Province of Turkey to the north, Jazira Region to the east, al-Thawrah District and Raqqa District of the Raqqa Governorate to the south and south-east respectively. At latitude approximately 36 and a half degrees north, its landscape consists of plains and low hills, rivers being Euphrates and Balikh. Part of the Fertile Crescent, its climate is mostly \"warm mediterranean\" on the Köppen climate classification, as opposed to the colder, semi-arid regions in its and further to the south and east.\n\nThe current population of Euphrates Region is unknown due to substantial refugee movements; however, the population of the territory before 2014 was estimated at roughly 400,000, with an ethnic Kurdish majority. Due to intense fighting at least three-quarters of the population fled across the border to Turkey in 2014; however, many returned in 2015.\nCities and towns with more than 10.000 inhabitants according to the 2004 Syrian census are Kobanî (44,821) and Tell Abyad (14,825).\n\nThe present Kurdish populated area on the left bank of the Euphrates was settled by Kurdish tribes at the beginning of the 17th century. In modern post-independence Syria, the Kurdish society of the region was subject to heavy-handed Arabization policies by the Damascus government. In the course of the Syrian Civil War and the Rojava conflict, Damascus government forces withdrew from the area, and on 27 January 2014 an autonomous \"Kobanî Canton\" under the Constitution of Rojava was declared and institutions established.\n\nIn July 2013, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) began to forcibly displace Kurdish civilians from towns in Raqqa Governorate. After demanding that all Kurds leave Tell Abyad or else be killed, thousands of civilians, including Turkmens and Arabs, fled on 21 July. Its fighters looted and destroyed the property of Kurds, and in some cases, resettled displaced Sunni Arab families from the an-Nabek District (Rif Damascus), Deir ez-Zor and Raqqa, in abandoned Kurdish homes. A similar pattern was documented in Tel Arab and Tal Hassel in July 2013. As ISIL consolidated its authority in Raqqa, Kurdish civilians were forcibly displaced from Tel Akhader, and from the immediate Kobanî area, in March and September 2014, respectively.\n\nEuphrates Region has seen fighting with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) since 2014. In September 2014, ISIL launched a major assault against Euphrates Region, seizing more than 100 Kurdish villages. As a consequence of the ISIL occupation, up to 200,000 Kurdish refugees fled from the Euphrates Region to Turkey, allowed in only under the condition that they leave vehicles or livestock behind. While committing massacres and kidnapping womenen the seized villages, ISIL forces were not able to occupy the entire region, as the People's Protection Units (YPG) and Women's Protection Units (YPJ) forces successfully put up stiff resistance in the city of Kobanî. After weeks of isolation as a result of Turkey blocking arms and fighters from entering the city, the US-led coalition finally began to target the ISIL assault forces with airstrikes. This move helped the YPG/YPJ to force ISIL to retreat from the city, and much of the surrounding region was retaken by Kurdish forces. After the successful summer 2015 Tell Abyad offensive of YPG/YPJ forces against ISIL, municipalities there voted to join the autonomous Kobanî Canton administration, creating the region in its contemporary shape.\n\nAirmen from the 621st Contingency Response Wing of the United States Air Force have expanded an airstrip south of Kobanî for use by U.S. forces.\n\nKobanî's Legislative Assembly has appointed a president, two deputies and 22 ministers to rule Euphrates Region. Its prime minister is Enver Müslim.\nAccording to the constitutional Charter of the Social Contract, the Kobanî Canton's Legislative Assembly on its 27 January 2014 session declared autonomy. The assembly elected Enver Müslim prime minister, who appointed Bêrîvan Hesen and Xalid Birgil his deputies. The government is lobbying for a humanitarian corridor, and the creation of new refugee camps inside Syria, where they can help with rebuilding.\n\nThe economy of the region is mainly based on agriculture, with the invention of greenhouse agriculture since the constitution of Euphrates Region.\n\nWhile there is no significant industrial area in Euphrates Region, there is a notably large number of cement production facilities.\n\nElectricity is supplied by Tishrin Dam on the Euphrates, within Euphrates Region; apart from that, electricity is produced by diesel generators.\n\nAround the region, but in particular in the city of Kobanî, economic priorities are the continuing war and reconstruction, including help for returning refugees. Most of the city and surrounding villages have been destroyed or badly damaged, and there is a danger of landmines. As of January 2017, in spite off the paucity of resources available and the embargoes imposed on the region, the rebuilding process has made considerable progress; over 70% of damaged roads have been restored, two hospitals rebuilt and another two added, and the 15 schools rebuilt now host over 50,000 students.\n\nLike in the other DFNS regions, primary education in public schools is initially instructed according to each student's mother tongue, be it Kurdish or Arabic. Students then begin to learn their second language of Kurdish or Arabic, as well as additional instruction of English. This is due to Rojava's stated goal of students achieving bilingualism in both Kurdish and Arabic by secondary schooling. Curricula are a topic of continuous debate between the regions' Boards of Education and the Syrian central government in Damascus, which partly pays the teachers. With Euphrates Region being home to a Syrian Turkmen minority, school education bilingual in Turkish and Arabic has also been made available.\n\nThe federal, regional and local administrations in Rojava put much emphasis on promoting libraries and educational centers, to facilitate learning and social and artistic activities. One cited example is the May 2016 established \"Rodî û Perwîn Library\" in Kobani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39309187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39309187", "title": "Fugalei", "text": "Fugalei\n\nFugalei is an islet of Wallis and Futuna. It is located off the east coast of Mata-Utu, Wallis Island.\n"}
{"id": "925715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925715", "title": "Geographic Data Files", "text": "Geographic Data Files\n\nGeographic Data Files (GDF) is an interchange file format for geographic data.\nIn contrast with generic GIS formats, GDF provides detailed rules for data capture and representation, and an extensive catalog of standard features, attributes and relationships. The most recent extension expanded applicability further towards pedestrian navigation, 3-D map rendering, and advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS).\n\nGDF is commonly used for data interchange in many industries such as automotive navigation systems, fleet management, dispatch management, road traffic analysis, , and automatic vehicle location.\n\nOriginated as a flat plain-text file, GDF is not intended to be used directly for any large scale geographic application and normally requires conversion into a more efficient format. Consumability has been increased with most-recent developments for XML and SQL renditions.\n\nThe maps in GDF format are provided by many map vendors such as HERE, TomTom, Mapscape BV, GeoSmart, Automotive Navigation Data, AutoNavi and NavInfo.\n\nGDF is an international standard that is used to model, describe and transfer road networks and other geographic data.\n\nThe standard was initially drawn up by CEN in co-operation with digital map providers, automotive and electronic equipment manufacturers. The outcome of these standardisation efforts (CEN GDF 3.0, or ENV14825:1996) has formed the major input to a global standard created by ISO/TC204 Sub Working group 3:\n\nHowever, despite the existence of an ISO GDF standard, the nature of model abstractions as well as semantic interpretations and proprietary content extensions lead to interoperability issues between flavors of GDF map products from different vendors. In practice the GDF files are not fully interchangeable due to vendor specific extensions. To this end, GDF5.0 provides major improvements in terms of extended meta data and flags for signalling implementation choices.\n\nThe specifications of GDF5.0 were developed and compiled between 2001 and 2008, involving experts from Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Japan, Republic of Korea, the Netherlands, and the United States of America. Extensive activities towards harmonization with ISO/TC211 standards were undertaken. GDF 5.0 was published in July 2011.\n\nMajor GDF5.0 enhancements include UML model migration & refinements; harmonization with linear referencing and geo-spatial web standards; support for 3-D content and time coordinates; comprehensive character set and phonetic representations; and new XML and SQL based delivery formats.\n\nBy the late 1980s, producers and users of digital road map data became increasingly aware of the need for a common data interchange standard. Lack of such a standard was seen as an impediment to the commercial growth and success of industries using such data. Before the advent of the Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) industry, development of spatial data interchange standards was done mostly on a regional basis and not designed for the specialised requirements of road transport-related applications.\n\nIn the 1990s, the GDF standard was instrumental in enabling the European business-to-business (B2B) market for in-vehicle navigation in that it provided interoperability for exchanging digital map data between map manufacturers and navigation system integrators. The GDF specifications provided a base for both the capturing of geographic content and the exchanging of it. Its original design foresaw a powerful, application-independent model, while its initial rendition as a standard specifically addressed the requirements for the richness of navigable map databases. Since then, GDF has evolved in terms of data modelling capabilities, broadened international applicability, expanded geographic domains, and diversified exchange formats. As a result, GDF covers a wide range of application domains and has been adapted to many geo-spatial technologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089", "title": "Geography of Taiwan", "text": "Geography of Taiwan\n\nTaiwan, formerly known as Formosa, is an island in East Asia; located some off the southeastern coast of mainland China across the Taiwan Strait. It has an area of and spans the Tropic of Cancer. The East China Sea lies to the north, the Philippine Sea to the east, the Luzon Strait directly to the south and the South China Sea to the southwest. The island makes up 99% of the current territory of the Republic of China, which is also known as \"Taiwan\".\n\nTaiwan is a tilted fault block, characterized by the contrast between the eastern two-thirds, consisting mostly of five rugged mountain ranges parallel to the east coast, and the flat to gently rolling plains of the western third, where the majority of Taiwan's population reside. There are several peaks over 3,500 m, the highest being Yu Shan at , making Taiwan the world's fourth-highest island. The tectonic boundary that formed these ranges is still active, and the island experiences many earthquakes, a few of them highly destructive. There are also many active submarine volcanoes in the Taiwan Straits.\n\nThe climate ranges from tropical in the south to subtropical in the north, and is governed by the East Asian Monsoon. The island is struck by an average of four typhoons in each year. The eastern mountains are heavily forested and home to a diverse range of wildlife, while land use in the western and northern lowlands is intensive.\n\nThe total area of the island is , making it intermediate in size between Belgium and the Netherlands. It has a coastline of . The ROC claims an exclusive economic zone of and a territorial sea of .\n\nThe main island of the archipelago is the island of Taiwan, which is long, wide and has an area of . The shape of the main island is similar to a sweet potato oriented in a south-to-north direction, and therefore Taiwanese, especially the Min Nan speakers, often call themselves \"children of the Sweet Potato\".\n\nThe central point of the island is the Geographic Center of Taiwan in Puli Township, Nantou County. The southernmost point of the island is the Taiwan Southernmost Point in Hengchun Township, Pingtung County.\n\nThe island of Taiwan is separated from the southeast coast of China by the Taiwan Strait, which ranges from at its widest point to at its narrowest. Part of the continental shelf, the Strait is no more than deep, and has become a land bridge during glacial periods.\n\nTo the south, the island of Taiwan is separated from the Philippine island of Luzon by the -wide Luzon Strait. The South China Sea lies to the southwest, the East China Sea to the north, and the Philippine Sea to the east.\n\nSmaller islands of the archipelago include the Penghu islands in the Taiwan Strait west of the main island, with an area of , the tiny islet of Xiaoliuqiu off the southwest coast, and Orchid Island and Green Island to the southeast, separated from the northernmost islands of the Philippines by the Bashi Channel. The islands of Kinmen and Matsu near the coast of Fujian across the Taiwan Strait have a total area of ; the Pratas and Taiping islets in the South China Sea are also administered by the ROC, but are not part of the Taiwanese archipelago.\n\nThe island of Taiwan was formed approximately 4 to 5 million years ago at a complex convergent boundary between the Philippine Sea Plate and the Eurasian Plate. In a boundary running the length of the island and continuing southwards in the Luzon Volcanic Arc (including Green Island and Orchid Island), the Eurasian Plate is sliding under the Philippine Sea Plate.\n\nMost of the island comprises a huge fault block tilted to the west.\nThe western part of the island, and much of the central range, consists of sedimentary deposits scraped from the descending edge of the Eurasian Plate. In the northeast of the island, and continuing eastwards in the Ryukyu Volcanic Arc, the Philippine Sea Plate slides under the Eurasian Plate.\n\nThe tectonic boundary remains active, and Taiwan experiences 15,000 to 18,000 earthquakes each year, of which 800 to 1,000 are noticed by people. The most catastrophic recent earthquake was the magnitude-7.3 Chi-Chi earthquake, which occurred in the center of Taiwan on 21 September 1999, killing more than 2,400 people. On 4 March 2010 at about 01:20 UTC, a magnitude 6.4 earthquake hit southwestern Taiwan in the mountainous area of Kaohsiung County.\nAnother major earthquake occurred on 6 February 2016, with a magnitude of 6.4. Tainan was damaged the most, with 117 deaths, most of them caused by the collapse of a 17-story apartment building.\n\nThe terrain in Taiwan is divided into two parts: the flat to gently rolling plains in the west, where 90% of the population lives, and the mostly rugged forest-covered mountains in the eastern two-thirds.\n\nThe eastern part of the island is dominated by five mountain ranges, each running from north-northeast to south-southwest, roughly parallel to the east coast of the island. As a group, they extend from north to south and average about from east to west. They include more than two hundred peaks with elevations of over .\n\nThe Central Mountain Range extends from Su'ao in the northeast to Eluanbi at the southern tip of the island, forming a ridge of high mountains and serving as the island's principal watershed. The mountains are predominantly composed of hard rock formations resistant to weathering and erosion, although heavy rainfall has deeply scarred the sides with gorges and sharp valleys. The relative relief of the terrain is usually extensive, and the forest-clad mountains with their extreme ruggedness are almost impenetrable. The east side of the Central Mountain Range is the steepest mountain slope in Taiwan, with fault scarps ranging in height from . Taroko National Park, on the steep eastern side of the range, has good examples of mountainous terrain, gorges and erosion caused by a swiftly flowing river.\n\nThe East Coast Mountain Range extends down the east coast of the island from the mouth of the Hualien River in the north to Taitung County in the south, and chiefly consist of sandstone and shale. It is separated from the Central Range by the narrow Huatung Valley, at an altitude of . Although Hsinkangshan (新港山), the highest peak, reaches an elevation of , most of the range is composed of large hills. Small streams have developed on the flanks, but only one large river cuts across the range. Badlands are located at the western foot of the range, where the ground water level is the lowest and rock formations are the least resistant to weathering. Raised coral reefs along the east coast and the frequent occurrences of earthquakes in the rift valley indicate that the fault block is still rising.\n\nThe ranges to the west of the Central range are divided into two groups separated by the Sun Moon Lake Basin in the centre of the island. The Dadu and Zhuoshui Rivers flow from the western slopes of the Central Range through the basin to the west coast of the island.\nThe Xueshan Range lies to the northwest of the Central Mountain Range, beginning at Sandiaojiao, the northeast tip of the island, and gaining elevation as it extends southwest towards Nantou County. Xueshan, the main peak, is high.\n\nThe Yushan Range runs along the southwestern flank of the Central Range. It includes the island's tallest peak, the Jade Mountain (\"Yu Shan\"), which makes Taiwan the world's fourth-highest island, and is the highest point in the western Pacific region outside of the Kamchatka Peninsula, New Guinea Highlands and Mount Kinabalu.\n\nThe Alishan Range lies west of the Yushan Range, across the valley of the south-flowing Kaoping River. The range has major elevations between . The main peak, Data Mountain (大塔山), towers .\n\nBelow the western foothills of the ranges, such as the Hsinchu Hills and the Miaoli Hills, lie raised terraces formed of material eroded from the ranges. These include the Linkou Plateau, the Taoyuan Plateau and the Dadu Plateau. About 23% of Taiwan's land area consists of fertile alluvial plains and basins watered by rivers running from the eastern mountains. Over half of this land lies in the Chianan Plain in southwest Taiwan, with lesser areas in the Pingtung Plain, Taichung Basin and Taipei Basin. The only sizable plain on the east coast is the Yilan Plain in the northeast.\n\nThe island of Taiwan lies across the Tropic of Cancer, and its climate is influenced by the East Asian Monsoon. Northern Taiwan has a humid subtropical climate, with substantial seasonal variation of temperatures, while parts of central and most of southern has a tropical monsoon climate where seasonal temperature variations are less noticeable with temperatures typically varying from warm to hot. During the winter (November to March), the northeast experiences steady rain, while the central and southern parts of the island are mostly sunny. The summer monsoon (from May to October) accounts for 90% of the annual precipitation in the south, but only 60% in the north. The average rainfall is approximately 2,600 mm per year.\nTyphoons are most likely to strike between July and October, with on average about four direct hits per year. Intensive rain from typhoons often leads to disastrous mudslides.\n\nBefore extensive human settlement, the vegetation on Taiwan ranged from tropical rainforest in the lowlands through temperate forests, boreal forest and alpine plants with increasing altitude.\nMost of the plains and low-lying hills of the west and north of the island have been cleared for agricultural use since the arrival of the Chinese immigrants during the 17th and 18th century. However the mountain forests are very diverse, with several endemic species such as Formosan cypress (\"Chamaecyparis formosensis\") and Taiwan fir (\"Abies kawakamii\"), while the camphor laurel (\"Cinnamomum camphora\") was once also widespread at lower altitudes.\nTaiwan is a center of bird endemism (see List of endemic birds of Taiwan).\n\nPrior to the country's industrialization, the mountainous areas held several endemic animal species and subspecies, such as the Swinhoe's pheasant (\"Lophura swinhoii\"), Taiwan blue magpie (\"Urocissa caerulea\"), the Formosan sika deer (\"Cervus nippon taiwanensis\" or \"Cervus nippon taiouanus\") and the Formosan landlocked salmon (\"Oncorhynchus masou formosanus\"). A few of these are now extinct, and many others have been designated endangered species.\n\nTaiwan had relatively few carnivores, 11 species in total, of which the Formosan clouded leopard and otter are likely extinct. The largest carnivore is the Formosan black bear (\"Selanarctos thibetanus formosanus\"), a rare and endangered species.\n\nNine national parks in Taiwan showcase the diverse terrain, flora and fauna of the archipelago. Kenting National Park on the southern tip of Taiwan contains uplifted coral reefs, moist tropical forest and marine ecosystems. Yushan National Park has alpine terrain, mountain ecology, forest types that vary with altitude, and remains of ancient road. Yangmingshan National Park has volcanic geology, hot springs, waterfalls, and forest. Taroko National Park has marble canyon, cliff, and fold mountains. Shei-Pa National Park has alpine ecosystems, geological terrain, and valley streams. Kinmen National Park has lakes, wetlands, coastal topography, flora and fauna-shaped island. Dongsha Atoll National Park has the Pratas reef atolls for integrity, a unique marine ecology, biodiversity, and is a key habitat for the marine resources of the South China Sea and Taiwan Strait.\n\nNatural resources on the islands include small deposits of gold, copper, coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and asbestos. The island is 55% forest and woodland (mostly on the mountains) and 24% arable land (mostly on the plains), with 15% going to other purposes. 5% is permanent pasture and 1% is permanent crops.\n\nBecause of the intensive exploitation throughout Taiwan's pre-modern and modern history, the island's mineral resources (e.g. coal, gold, marble), as well as wild animal reserves (e.g. deer), have been virtually exhausted. Moreover, much of its forestry resources, especially firs were harvested during Japanese rule for the construction of shrines and have only recovered slightly since then. To this day, forests do not contribute to significant timber production mainly because of concerns about production costs and environmental regulations.\n\nThe few natural resources with significant economic value remaining in Taiwan are essentially agriculture-associated. Sugarcane and rice have been cultivated in western Taiwan since the 17th century. Camphor extraction and sugarcane refining played an important role in Taiwan's exportation from the late 19th century through the first half of the 20th century. The importance of these industries subsequently declined not because of the exhaustion of related natural resources but mainly due to the decline of international demand.\n\nDomestic agriculture (rice being the dominant kind of crop) and fisheries retain importance to a certain degree, but they have been greatly challenged by foreign imports since Taiwan's accession to the World Trade Organization in 2001. Consequently, upon the decline of subsistent importance, Taiwan's agriculture now relies heavily on the marketing and exportation of specialty crops, such as banana, guava, lychee, bell fruit, and high-mountain tea.\n\nTaiwan has significant coal deposits and some insignificant petroleum and natural gas deposits. , oil accounts for 49.0% of the total energy consumption. Coal comes next with 32.1%, followed by nuclear energy with 8.3%, natural gas (indigenous and liquefied) with 10.2%, and energy from renewable sources with 0.5%. Taiwan has six nuclear reactors and two under construction. Nearly all oil and gas for transportation and power needs must be imported, making Taiwan particularly sensitive to fluctuations in energy prices. Taiwan is rich in wind energy resources, with wind farms both onshore and offshore, though limited land area favors offshore wind resources. By promoting renewable energy, Taiwan's government hopes to also aid the nascent renewable energy manufacturing industry, and develop it into an export market.\n\nTaiwan has a population of over 23 million, the vast majority of whom live in the lowlands near the western coast of the island.\nThe island is highly urbanized, with nearly 9 million people living in the Taipei–Keelung–Taoyuan metropolitan area at the northern end, and over 2 million each in the urban areas of Kaohsiung and Taichung.\n\nTaiwanese aborigines comprise approximately 2% of the population, and now mostly live in the mountainous eastern part of the island. Most scholars believe their ancestors arrived in Taiwan by sea between 4000 and 3000 BC, probably from the mainland.\n\nHan Chinese make up over 95% of the population. Immigrants from southern Fujian began to farm the area around modern Tainan and Kaohsiung from the 17th century, later spreading across the western and northern plains and absorbing the aboriginal population of those areas. Hakka people from eastern Guangdong arrived later and settled the foothills further inland, but the rugged uplands of the eastern half of the island remained the exclusive preserve of the aborigines until the early 20th century. A further 1.2 million people from throughout mainland China entered Taiwan at the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949.\n\nSome areas in Taiwan with high population density and many factories are affected by heavy pollution. The most notable areas are the southern suburbs of Taipei and the western stretch from Tainan to Lin Yuan, south of Kaohsiung. In the late 20th century, Taipei suffered from extensive vehicle and factory air pollution, but with mandatory use of unleaded petrol and the establishment of the Environmental Protection Administration in 1987, the air quality of Taiwan has improved dramatically. Motor scooters, especially older or cheaper two-stroke versions, which are ubiquitous in Taiwan, also contribute disproportionately to urban air pollution.\n\nOther environmental issues include water pollution from industrial emissions and raw sewage, contamination of drinking water supplies, and trade in endangered species. Though regulation of sulfate aerosol emissions from petroleum combustion is becoming stringent, acid rain remains a threat to the health of residents and forests. Atmospheric scientists in Taiwan estimate that more than half of the pollutants causing Taiwan's acid rain are carried from mainland China by monsoon winds.\n\n"}
{"id": "18183042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18183042", "title": "Georg Braun", "text": "Georg Braun\n\nGeorg Braun (also \"Brunus, Bruin\"; 1541 – 10 March 1622) was a topo-geographer. From 1572 to 1617 he edited the \"Civitates orbis terrarum,\" which contains 546 prospects, bird's-eye views and maps of cities from all around the world. He was the principal editor of the work, he acquired the tables, hired the artists, and wrote the texts. He died as an octogenarian in 1622, as the only survivor of the original team to witness the publication of volume VI in 1617.\n\nBraun was born and died in Cologne. His principal profession was as a Catholic cleric, however, he spent thirty-seven years as canon and dean at the church, St. Maria ad Gradus, in Cologne. His six-volume work was inspired by Sebastian Münster's \"Cosmographia\". In form and layout it resembles the 1570 \"Theatrum orbis terrarum\" by Abraham Ortelius, as Ortelius was interested in a complementary companion for the Theatrum.\n\nThe Braun publication set new standards in cartography for over 100 years. Frans Hogenberg (1535–1590, from Mechelen) created the tables for volumes I through IV, and Simon van den Neuwel created those for volumes V and VI. Other contributors were Joris Hoefnagel, Jacob Hoefnagel, cartographer Daniel Freese, and Heinrich Rantzau. Works by Jacob van Deventer, Sebastian Münster, and Johannes Stumpf were also used. Primarily European cities are depicted in the publication; however, Casablanca and Mexico City/Cuzco on one sheet are also included in volume I. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11669883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11669883", "title": "Groundwater flow", "text": "Groundwater flow\n\nIn hydrogeology, groundwater flow is defined as the \"...part of streamflow that has infiltrated the ground, has entered the phreatic zone, and has been discharged into a stream channel, or springs and seepage water.\" It is governed by the groundwater flow equation.\nGroundwater is water that is found underground in cracks and spaces in the soil, sand and rocks. An area where water fills these spaces is called a phreatic zone or saturated zone. Groundwater is stored in and moves slowly through the layers of soil, sand and rocks called aquifers. The rate of groundwater flow depends on the permeability (the size of the spaces in the soil or rocks and how well the spaces are connected) and the hydraulic head (water pressure).\n\nVertical flow of solute in porous media (preferential flow) is studied and compared with Darcy's flow. The methodology used for the study is experimental. The laboratory model used is similar to Darcy apparatus with slight modification. The study has compared measured velocity of the first reach of solute with an average velocity of flow in porous media. The laboratory model consists of 150  mm diameter High-density Polyethylene pipe of 750  mm height filled uniform sand. Nine sets of experiment is conducted with 3 types of sand (D10= 0.6 mm and Cu1.42, D10= 0.11 mm and Cu1.55, D10= 0.3 mm and Cu1.4) and 3 types of brine concentration (5%, 10%, 20% by weight brine solution). A brine solution is found to be 1.13 to 1.84 times faster than the average velocity of flow as a result of preferential flow.\n\n"}
{"id": "56733026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56733026", "title": "Hammarbyleden", "text": "Hammarbyleden\n\nHammarbyleden is an artificial waterway in Stockholm which connects Lake Mälaren with Saltsjön, the westernmost bay of the Baltic Sea. The waterway is located along the southern edge of Södermalm, one of Stockholm's many islands.\n\nThe waterway is composed mostly of interconnected natural bodies of water, which were expanded and dredged in the late-1910s and 1920s; the waterway was opened in 1929. A water lock was constructed as part of the project to account for the water level variation between Lake Mälaren and the Baltic Sea.\n\nThe waterway begins at Liljeholmsviken (near the eastern edge of Lake Mälaren) where it flows east into Årstaviken. At the eastern end of Årstaviken is the water lock, called , which lowers the water level from Årstaviken into Hammarby Sjö (Hammarby Lake). The final connection between Hammarby Lake and Saltsjön is made through the . The canal meets Saltsjön near the wharf of Masthamnen.\n"}
{"id": "41658648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41658648", "title": "Hurkalo", "text": "Hurkalo\n\nThe Hurkalo () waterfall is located on the Velyka Richka River, south-west of Korchyn, Skole Raion, Lviv Oblast of western Ukraine. The waterfall is high. \n\n"}
{"id": "17419494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17419494", "title": "ISO 3166-2:MR", "text": "ISO 3166-2:MR\n\nISO 3166-2:MR is the entry for Mauritania in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Mauritania, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 15 regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Mauritania. The second part is two digits (01–15) for the regions.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13743601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13743601", "title": "Index of biological integrity", "text": "Index of biological integrity\n\nAn Index of Biological Integrity (IBI), also called an Index of Biotic Integrity, is a scientific tool used to identify and classify water pollution problems. An IBI associates anthropogenic influences on a water body with biological activity in the water body, and is formulated using data developed from biosurveys.\n\nTo quantitatively assess changes in the composition of biologic communities, IBIs are developed to accurately reflect the ecological complexity from statistical analysis. There is no one universal IBI, and developing metrics that consistently give accurate assessment of the monitored population requires rigorous testing to confirm its validity for a given subject. Often IBIs are region-specific and require experienced professionals to provide sufficient quality data to correctly assess a score. Because communities naturally vary as do samples collected from a larger population, identifying robust statistics with acceptable variance is an area of active research.\n\nThis is the most powerful tool existing to identify systemic impacts on the health of biological systems. IBIs are increasingly involved in the identification of impairment, and confirmation of recovery of impaired waters, in the Total Maximum Daily Load process required by the Clean Water Act in the USA. \n\nUnlike chemical testing of water samples, which gives brief snap-shots of chemical concentrations, an IBI captures an integrated net impact on a biological community structure. While the complete absence, particularly sudden disappearance of, suits of indicator species can constitute powerful evidence of a specific pollutant or stress factor, IBIs generally do not resolve a specific cause of impairment.\n\nThe IBI concept was formulated by Dr. James Karr in 1981. To date IBIs have been developed for fish, algae, macroinvertebrates, pupal exuvia (shed skins of chironomidae), vascular plants, and combinations of these.\n\nBiosurvey protocols have been published for use in different waterbody types and ecoregions. One such publication is the \"Rapid Bioassessment Protocol\" for streams and rivers, issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Such protocols provide a structure for developing an IBI, which may include measures such as richness of taxa (species, genera, etc.) and proportion of pollution-tolerant or intolerant taxa.\n\nIt is possible to create IBIs for use by minimally trained monitoring personnel, however the precision obtainable is lower than that conducted by trained professionals. Safeguards to assure robustness in spite of potential misidentifications or protocol variations require careful testing. Ongoing quality control by established experts is needed to maintain data integrity, and the analysis of IBI results becomes more complex. Use of trained volunteers is being pioneered by government agencies responsible for monitoring large numbers of water bodies with limited resources, such as the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) and local volunteer stream monitoring programs supported by MPCA. EPA has published guidance to assist volunteer programs in formulating IBIs and related findings. While IBIs from such programs are legally admissible in US courts, defending the validity of conclusions based solely on such results is unlikely to be feasible.\n\nAgreement among multiple IBIs from data collected by established professionals can be more conclusive. A case in point is the phenomenon that stream IBI scores indicate significant impairment, or partial ecological collapse where more than 10 to 15 percent of the immediately surrounding watershed is impervious due to urbanization. Identifying reasons for such impairments, and possible exceptions to these trends, are major research challenges for academics studying cumulative watershed effects, and the use of Low Impact Development techniques to mitigate the impacts of stormwater runoff pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37422382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37422382", "title": "Inter-Services Topographic Department", "text": "Inter-Services Topographic Department\n\nThe Inter-Services Topographic Department (1940–1946) was a joint British Army and Navy organization created during World War II that was responsible for supplying topographic intelligence for all combined operations, and in particular, for preparing reports in advance of military operations overseas.\nThis is an intelligence unit administered by the Royal Navy. Dr. Diamond Jenness was formerly chief of the Division of Anthropology of the National Museum of Canada and during the war headed the Inter-Service Topographical Section of the Department of National Defence. In 1949 he retired from government service.\n\nThe Interservices Topographical Department (ISTD) came out of the near-fiasco of the British invasion of Norway (9 April – 9 May 1940). Prior to that time, the Army and Royal Navy had different intelligence units that were independent of each other. The ISTD was established at Manchester College, Oxford. Working together with members of each arm and the Allies, this unit was able to bring together zero-elevation aerial photography, which is phototgraphy taken as close to the wave tops as possible, in order to bring the views of the beach landscape, which were then made into continuous horizontal strip photographs. These files were marked with military targets such as bridges, marshalling yards and the like, and up-to-date photos and intelligence were used to up date obsolete maps. From these new maps, and from older maps, magazine illustrations, and old family photographs taken on holiday collected from the public, new maps could be produced for the planning staffs and operations forces.\n\n\"Inadequate topographic intelligence could result in troops encountering impenetrable terrain, amphibious assaults landing on impassable beaches, or airborne assaults dropping into water. The U.S. Army's plan to provide photographic mapping support to advancing troops illustrates topographical intelligence's importance to the Western Allies. Further, the British developed the Inter-Service Topographic Department (ISTD) in October 1940. The ISTD responded to the British topographical intelligence shortage before the April 1940 German invasion of Norway. In fact, the paucity of topographical intelligence on Norway resulted in Royal Air Force Bomber Command pilots relying on 1912 revised Baedeker's guides—commonly used by foreign travelers— for navigation when attacking airfields in Norway. This lack of intelligence also caused Royal Navy carrier pilots to rely on contourless Admiralty charts during their attack on Narvik's port. Later, the topographical intelligence produced by the ISTD proved invaluable to the Royal Navy midget submarine attack and the Royal Navy torpedo aircraft attack during September 1942 and late 1944, respectively, on the German battleship Tirpitz based in Norway. It was also invaluable during the November 1942 Allied North African landings, and the St. Nazaire commando raid in March 1942. In tribute to the ISTD's effectiveness, the department received compliments from General Dwight D. Eisenhower for its support to the allied landings in French North Africa.\"\n\n\"Although direct foreign procurement could not be undertaken at this time, substantial amounts of material were received from the British Inter-Services Topographic Department and the Royal Naval Intelligence Division 5, respectively the publishers of the ISIS reports and the Geographic Handbooks. Colonel C. Bassett, R.M., and Admiral John Henry Godfrey, directors respectively of the ISTD and Naval Intelligence, RN, assisted in establishing map exchanges between the Allied planning staffs; subsequently a working alliance was maintained through the London Map Division of the OSS.\"\n\nAs the war progressed, the Museum and Library staffs participated more and more in the activities of the Inter-Services Topographical Department (I.S.T.D.), a special department responsible for supplying topographical intelligence for all combined operations, and, in particular, for preparing reports in advance of military operations overseas. It relied in large measure upon the Museum and Library organization for the provisions of the geological information incorporated into the reports, such information being written up by the Museum staff or by the staff of the I.S.T.D. from bibliographies, maps and texts supplied to its Library Liaison Service from the Museum. The work was of a highly confidential character but, in special circumstances, of great importance and interest, and it is now permissible to state that the Museum and Library staffs provided information relating to every considerable military operation in Africa and Europe from the first landings in North Africa. Of special significance, not always apparent at the time that they were supplied, are the reports of North Africa and other Mediterranean territories in 1942; on Yugoslavia, Crete, the Dodecanese, and Möhne Valley, Lampedusa, Pantelleria, the geology of certain Alpine tunnels, and various regions of the Far East in 1943; and those on the flying bomb sites in France in 1944. In connexion with this class of work and in the course of a visit to the United States in 1944 by a member of the Museum staff, the opportunity was taken to establish contact with the Military Geology Unit of the US Geological Survey, with most helpful results. \nConsiderable assistance was also given to the Naval Intelligence Division, whose handbooks are extensively used by the Services, by Government Departments, and by British embassies abroad. Chapters were contributed on the Mineral economics of West Africa, the Belgian Congo, Mozambique and Angola, and accounts of the geology and mineral resources of other territories prepared the staff of Naval Intelligence Division were checked prior to printing off.\nIn addition to the contributions made to the work of these two service Departments, assistance and information was given from time to time to various Government Departments such as the Ministry of Supply, the Ministry of Economic Warfare, the Ministry of Works and Buildings, the Imperial War Graves Commission, the Ministry of Information, the Ministry of Aircraft Production, and to the scientific liaison officers of the Dominion Governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24797636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24797636", "title": "John Anthony Allan", "text": "John Anthony Allan\n\nJohn Anthony Allan (born 2 January 1937), sometime cited as Tony Allan, is a British geographer. He was awarded the Stockholm Water Prize in 2008 for his revolutionary virtual water concept. Although being an emeritus of the School of Oriental and African Studies and King's College London of the University of London, he still acts as a teaching Professor at King's College London.\n\nAllan received a B.A. from Durham University and a PhD from the School of Oriental and African Studies in London.\n\nHaving been a long time water analyst with emphasis on the Middle East, he coined the term virtual water in 1993 after having been inspired by Gideon Fishelson from Tel Aviv University, who criticised his government over the amount of water that had been used to produce and export citrus fruits to the European Union. Allan then researched trade figures of Middle Eastern states to conclude that this water-scarce region was only able to survive through large quantities of food imports in grain, livestock etc. Thus, the region was not dependent on its own scarce water resources but could purchase water already embedded in agricultural produce. It was this logic that enabled Tony Allan to challenge the then prevailing thesis that the wars in the next century will be fought over water. In essence he explained how the importation of water embedded mostly in cereals into water-scarce regions of the world via trade explained why wars over water were both unnecessary and unlikely. This opened up a plethora of new research directions for his many graduate students working in water constrained parts of the world. His seminal work entitled The Middle East Water Question: Hydropolitics and the Global Economy captured a lifetime of research and has become a cornerstone for policy-makers and researchers. A significant contribution to this paradigm shift has been the emergence of the concept of benefit-sharing as opposed to water-sharing, or the management of transboundary waters as a public good.\n\nIn March 2008, Allan was announced to receive the Stockholm Water Prize, which is the equivalent to an environmental Nobel Prize according to some commentators. The international nominated Allan for it due to 'his unique, pioneering and long lasting work in education and raising the awareness internationally of interdisciplinary relationships between agricultural production, water use, economies and political processes'.\n"}
{"id": "55478634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55478634", "title": "Kamenica Skradnička", "text": "Kamenica Skradnička\n\nKamenica Skradnička is a village in Croatia, under the Tounj municipality, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "42443482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42443482", "title": "Kumano Sea", "text": "Kumano Sea\n\nThe Kumano Sea is a body of water belonging to North Pacific Ocean (Philippines Sea) located off the coast of Kumano Region of the Kii Peninsula located in central Japan.\n"}
{"id": "19013026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19013026", "title": "List of Mauritius-related topics", "text": "List of Mauritius-related topics\n\nThis is a partial list of topics related to Mauritius.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40313424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40313424", "title": "List of butterflies of the Marshall Islands", "text": "List of butterflies of the Marshall Islands\n\nThis is a list of butterflies of the Marshall Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28114285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28114285", "title": "List of country related articles in Asia", "text": "List of country related articles in Asia\n\nThis is an index of articles related to Asia. The transcontinental countries spanning Europe are also shown.\n\n"}
{"id": "28140614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28140614", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Niue", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Niue\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Niue, a small Pacific island country in Oceania. Although Niue is an associated state of New Zealand, . At present, the capital of Alofi hosts one mission. Additionally there are embassies accredited to Niue and residing outside the country.\n\nAlofi\n\n"}
{"id": "36271779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36271779", "title": "List of football clubs in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands", "text": "List of football clubs in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands\n\nThis is a list of association football clubs in Cocos (Keeling) Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1821694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821694", "title": "List of highest mountains on Earth", "text": "List of highest mountains on Earth\n\nThere are at least 109 mountains on Earth with elevations greater than above sea level. The vast majority of these mountains are located on the edge of the Indian and Eurasian continental plates. Only those summits are included that, by an objective measure, may be considered individual mountains as opposed to subsidiary peaks.\n\nThe dividing line between a mountain with multiple peaks and separate mountains is not always clear (see also Highest unclimbed mountain). A popular and intuitive way to distinguish mountains from subsidiary peaks is by their height above the highest saddle connecting it to a higher summit, a measure called topographic prominence or re-ascent (the higher summit is called the \"parent peak\"). A common definition of a mountain is a summit with prominence. Alternatively, a relative prominence (prominence/height) is used (usually 7–8%) to reflect that in higher mountain ranges everything is on a larger scale. The table below lists the highest 100 summits with at least prominence, approximating a 7% relative prominence. A drawback of a prominence-based list is that it may exclude well-known or spectacular mountains that are connected via a high ridge to a taller summit, such as Eiger or Nuptse. A few such peaks and mountains with nearly sufficient prominence are included but not numbered in this list.\n\nIt is very unlikely that all given heights are correct to the nearest metre; indeed, the sea level is often problematic to define when a mountain is remote from the sea. Different sources often differ by many metres, and the heights given below may well differ from those elsewhere in this encyclopedia. As an extreme example, Ulugh Muztagh on the north Tibetan Plateau is often listed as to , but appears to be only to . Some mountains differ by > on different maps, while even very thorough current measurements of Mount Everest range from to . These discrepancies serve to emphasize the uncertainties in the listed heights.\n\nThough some parts of the world, especially the most mountainous parts, have never been thoroughly mapped, it is unlikely that any mountains this high have been overlooked, because synthetic aperture radar can and has been used to measure elevations of most otherwise inaccessible places. Still, heights or prominences may be revised, so that the order of the list may change and even \"new\" mountains could enter the list over time. To be safe, the list has been extended to include all peaks.\n\nThe highest mountains above sea level are generally not the highest above the surrounding terrain. There is no precise definition of surrounding base, but Denali, Mount Kilimanjaro and Nanga Parbat are possible candidates for the tallest mountain on land by this measure. The bases of mountain islands are below sea level, and given this consideration Mauna Kea ( above sea level) is the world's tallest mountain and volcano, rising about from the Pacific Ocean floor. Ojos del Salado has the greatest rise on Earth— from the summit to the bottom of the Atacama Trench about away, though most of this rise is not part of the mountain.\n\nThe highest mountains are also not generally the most voluminous. Mauna Loa () is the largest mountain on Earth in terms of base area (about ) and volume (about ), although, due to the intergrade of lava from Kilauea, Hualalai and Mauna Kea, the volume can only be estimated based on surface area and height of the edifice. Mt. Kilimanjaro is the largest non-shield volcano in terms of both base area () and volume (). Mount Logan is the largest non-volcanic mountain in base area ().\n\nThe highest mountains above sea level are also not those with peaks farthest from the centre of the Earth, because the figure of the Earth is not spherical. Sea level closer to the equator is several kilometres farther from the centre of the Earth. The summit of Chimborazo, Ecuador's tallest mountain, is usually considered to be the farthest point from the Earth's centre, although the southern summit of Peru's tallest mountain, Huascarán, is another contender. Both have elevations above sea level more than 2 km less than that of Everest.\n\nAlmost all mountains in the list are located in the Himalaya and Karakoram ranges to the south and west of the Tibetan plateau. All peaks or higher are located in East, Central or South Asia in a rectangle edged by Noshaq () on the Afghanistan–Pakistan borderin the west, Jengish Chokusu (Tuōmù'ěr Fēng, ) on the Kyrgyzstan–Xinjiang border to the north, Gongga Shan (Minya Konka, ) in Sichuan to the east, and Kabru () on the Sikkim–Nepal border to the south.\n\n, the highest peak on four of the mountains — Gangkhar Puensum, Labuche Kang III/East, Karjiang, and Tongshanjiabu, all located in Bhutan or China — have not been ascended. The most recent peak to have its first ever ascent is Saser Kangri II East, in India, on 24 August 2011. \n\nThe highest mountain outside of Asia is Aconcagua (), 189th in the list, with a prominence cutoff.\n\nThe following graph ranks the countries by number of mountain peaks over 7,200 metres (23,622 ft) above sea level. Note that 38 peaks are on \"de facto\" borders and two (Jongsong Peak and Sia Kangri) are on tripoints.\n\nThe following is a stem and leaf plot of the above data. The two digits to the left of the line are the first two digits of the mountain's height (metres), and each digit to the right of the line represents the third digit of the mountain's height. Each number on the right is linked to the corresponding mountain's article. For example, the height of one of the mountains (namely Mount Everest) is 8848 meters. Also, it is apparent that there are five mountains above 8,200 metres.\n\n88 | 4\n87 | \n86 | 1\n85 | 8 1\n84 | 8\n83 | \n82 |\n81 | 8 6 6 2\n80 | 9 8 5 3 2\n79 | 5 4 3 3\n78 | 9 8 7 6 2 2 1 0\n\n77 | 9 9 8 8 5 5 4 1 0 0\n76 |\n9 7 6 6 4 1 1\n75 | 7 7 5 5 4 4 4 3 3 1 1\n74 | 9 9 9 9 7 6 6 6 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0\n73 | 8 8 8 8 8 6 6 5 5 5 4 2 1 1 1 0\n72 | 9 9 9 8 8 8 8 7 7 6 6 5 4 4 4 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43542390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43542390", "title": "List of hoards in Asia", "text": "List of hoards in Asia\n\nThe list of hoards in Asia comprises significant archaeological hoards of coins, jewellery, precious and scrap metal objects and other valuable items discovered in Asia. It includes both hoards that were buried with the intention of retrieval at a later date (personal hoards, founder's hoards, merchant's hoards, and hoards of loot), and also hoards of votive offerings which were not intended to be recovered at a later date, but excludes grave goods and single items found in isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21691018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21691018", "title": "List of public art in Vilnius", "text": "List of public art in Vilnius\n\nThis is a list of public art in Vilnius, Lithuania.\n\n"}
{"id": "38505534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38505534", "title": "List of radio stations in Macau", "text": "List of radio stations in Macau\n\nThis is a list of radio stations in Macau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17159371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17159371", "title": "List of shopping malls in Taipei", "text": "List of shopping malls in Taipei\n\nThis is a list of notable shopping malls/shopping centres in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11485782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485782", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: B", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: B\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1576372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1576372", "title": "List of warehouse districts", "text": "List of warehouse districts\n\nThis is a list of warehouse districts that are notable.\n\nA warehouse district or warehouse row is an area found in many urban setting known for being the current or former location of numerous warehouses. Logistically, warehouses are often located in industrial parks, with access to bulk transportation outlets such as highways, railroads, and airports. The areas where warehouses are typically built are often designated as special zones for urban planning purposes, and \"can have their own substantial infrastructures, comprising roads, utilities, and energy systems\". In many instances, where changing social and economic conditions have made it unfeasable to maintain an existing warehouse district, cities or communities will invest in converting the district to other purposes for which this infrastructure can still be used, such an art district. Such a converted area may continue to be known as a warehouse district.\n\nNotable areas known as warehouse districts include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381249", "title": "Meneng District", "text": "Meneng District\n\nMeneng (or Menen) is a district located in the Meneng Constituency in the country of Nauru. The constituency elects 2 members to the Parliament of Nauru in Yaren.\n\nThe district is located in the southeast of the island, covering an area of 3.1 km². It has a population of 1,400. Meneng District has 18 villages, the most of any district in Nauru.\n\nFeatures in Meneng include:\n\n\nMeneng Infant School is in Meneng. The primary and secondary schools serving all of Nauru are Yaren Primary School in Yaren District (years 1-3), Nauru Primary School in Meneng District (years 4-6), Nauru College in Denigomodu District (years 7-9), and Nauru Secondary School (years 10-12) in Yaren District.\n\nThe current building of Nauru Primary School opened on October 6, 2016. Canstruct, an Australian firm, built the two story building, which has eight classrooms. The building, specially designed for Nauruan weather, with ceiling fans and special airflow, may house up to 400 students and is resistant to natural disasters.\n\n"}
{"id": "18919372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919372", "title": "Miruşen", "text": "Miruşen\n\nMiruşen () (also, Mirikend, Mirikənd, Mirishen, Mirushen, and Myurishen) is a village in the Martuni Province of the de facto Republic of Artsakh, de jure part of the Republic of Azerbaijan. \n"}
{"id": "20143769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20143769", "title": "Old Bahama Channel", "text": "Old Bahama Channel\n\nThe Old Bahama Channel () is a strait of the Caribbean region, between Cuba and the Bahamas.\n\nThe strait/channel is located off the Atlantic coast of north-central and northeastern mainland and the Sabana-Camagüey Archipelago of Cuba, and south of the Great Bahama Bank of the Bahamas. It is approximately long and wide. It divides the northernmost bank of the Caribbean islands into two nearly equal parts. To the north and northeast is the Great Bahama Bank and the Bahama Islands; and to the south the bank on which the island of Cuba rests.\n\nThe Old Bahama Channel is connected at its north-western extremity end to the Florida Straits by two arms, enclosing Cay Sal Bank, of which the northern is called Santaren Channel and the southern Nicholas Channel. It is considered as terminating on the east between Cape Maysi in Cuba, and Inagua island in the Bahamas. However, it can also be considered to include the deep sea which separates the minor banks north of Haiti from this island, so that it extends to the Mona Passage, or the strait between the islands of Hispaniola and Puerto Rico.\n\nThe narrowest portion of the Old Bahama Channel is between 22° and 23° North latitude, where its width rarely exceeds .\n\nIn the 1500s, Alonso Valiente was one of the discoverers of the Old Bahama Channel.\n\nThe Spanish colonial trade routes in the Spanish West Indies originally favored the Old Bahama Channel, then shifted to the Straits of Florida—New Bahama Channel, as it was a safer alternative.\n\nIn the Old Bahama Channel, ship captains had to pick their way through the low-lying cays and shoals of the southern Bahama Banks. A Royal Navy vessel, the 44-gun , was wrecked in the Channel in 1762.\n"}
{"id": "2957754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2957754", "title": "Olinger", "text": "Olinger\n\nOlinger, Pennsylvania is a rural fictional town in the southeastern part of the state that serves as the setting for several short stories, such as \"The Alligators\" and one novel (\"The Centaur\") by American writer John Updike. It is based on Updike’s boyhood town of Shillington, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe small town’s residents are primarily Protestant and of German descent and many of them live in middle-class brick houses. Olinger is a suburb of Brewer, Pennsylvania (itself based on Reading) and it is home to a box factory and a hosiery mill.\n\nThere is a real place called Olinger, an unincorporated town in Lee County, Virginia. It sits along the north fork of the Powell River and is located in the Yokam District of the county. It is named for a Confederate Civil War commander. \n"}
{"id": "3720914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720914", "title": "SAR-Lupe", "text": "SAR-Lupe\n\nSAR-Lupe is Germany's first reconnaissance satellite system and is used for military purposes. SAR is an abbreviation for synthetic aperture radar and \"Lupe\" is German for magnifying glass. The SAR-Lupe program consists of five identical (770 kg) satellites, developed by the German aeronautics company OHB-System which are controlled by a ground station which is responsible for controlling the system and analysing the retrieved data. A large data archive of images will be kept in a former Cold War bunker belonging to the \"Kommando Strategische Aufklärung\" (Strategic Reconnaissance Command) of the Bundeswehr.\n\nSAR-Lupe's \"high-resolution\" images can be acquired day or night through all weather conditions. The first satellite was launched from Plesetsk in Russia on 19 December 2006, about a year after the intended launch date; four more satellites were launched at roughly six-month intervals, and the entire system achieved full operational readiness on 22 July 2008.\n\nThe five satellites operate in three 500-kilometre orbits in planes roughly sixty degrees apart. They use an X-band radar with a three-metre dish, providing a resolution of about 50 centimetres over a frame size of 5.5 km on a side ('spotlight mode', in which the satellite rotates to keep the dish pointed at a single target) or about one metre over a frame size of 8 km x 60 km ('stripmap mode', in which the satellite maintains a fixed orientation over the earth and the radar image is formed simply by the satellite's motion along its orbit). Response time for imaging of a given area is ten hours or less. Thales Alenia Space provided the core of the Synthetic Aperture Radar sensors.\n\nThe testing of SAR-Lupe involved an inverse procedure, in which the satellite, mounted in a radome on Earth, was used to image the International Space Station, whose orbit is reasonably close to the one the satellite will eventually be in. One-metre resolution at the ISS was apparently achieved.\n\nOn 30 July 2002 a cooperation treaty between Germany and France was signed, under which the SAR-Lupe satellites and the French Helios optical reconnaissance satellite will operate jointly. Other EU countries have been invited to join as well and Italy has shown considerable interest.\n\nA replacement of SAR-LUPE, called SARah, will be put into service from 2017-2019. It will consist of 3 radar satellites and one optical satellite. The satellites of SARah will be bigger and more capable than those of SAR-Lupe. SARah-1, a phased-array-antenna satellite, and SARah-2 and 3, passive-antenna synthetic aperture radars, are planned to be launched on Falcon 9 sometime in 2019 and 2020.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42612125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42612125", "title": "Sambisa Forest", "text": "Sambisa Forest\n\nThe Sambisa Forest is a forest in Borno State, northeast Nigeria. It is in the southwestern part of Chad Basin National Park, about southeast of Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State.\n\nThe Sambisa forest is located at the northeastern tip of the west Sudanian Savanna and the southern boundary of the Sahel Acacia Savanna about 60 km. south east of Maiduguri the capital of the state of Borno. It occupies parts of the states of Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Bauchi along the corridor Darazo, Jigawa, and some parts of Kano state farther north. It is administered by the Local government areas of Nigeria of Askira/Uba in the south, by Damboa in the southwest, and by Konduga and Jere in the west.\n\nThe name of the forest comes from the village of Sambisa which is on the border with Gwoza in the East. The Gwoza hills in the East have peaks of 1,300 meters above sea level and form part of the Mandara Mountains range along the Cameroon-Nigeria border. The forest is drained by seasonal streams into the Yedseram and the Ngadda Rivers.\n\nThe climate is hot, dry and wet with minimum temperatures of about 21.5 °C between December and February, a maximum of about 48 °C in May and average temperatures of about 28-29 °C. The dry season is from November to May and the wet season is between May and September/October with annual rainfall of about 190 mm.\n\nThe Sambisa forest is one of the few forests in North Eastern Nigeria where sparse vegetation is the norm. Most of the vegetation is typical of the Sudanian Savanna although, because of human activity, some parts have become more like the Sahel savanna. The forest consists of a mixture of open woodland and sections of very dense vegetation of short trees about two metres high and thorny bushes, with a height of 1/2-1 metre, which are difficult to penetrate. Major trees and bushes in the forest include tallow, rubber, wild black plum, birch, date palm, mesquite, acacia, monkey bread, red bushwillow, baobab, jackalberry, tamarind and terminalia.\n\nBirdLife International reported that 62 species of birds have been recorded in the Sambisa Game Reserve, including the guinea fowl, francolin, village weaver, Abyssinian ground hornbill, Arabian bustard, Savile's bustard, African collared-dove, chestnut-bellied starling, black scrub-robin and the Sudan golden sparrow. The forest was also thought to be the last remaining site of the ostrich in Nigeria.\n\n17 species of mammals were reported in 2010 in the Sambisa Game Reserve including, baboon, patas monkey, tantalus monkey, Grimm's duiker, red-fronted gazelle, African bush elephant, roan antelope, hartebeest, African leopard and spotted hyenas. However poaching, chopping downing trees for fuel, human agricultural penetration and the Boko Haram jihadist group's activities since 2013 have reduced their numbers since then. An aerial survey of the game reserve in 2006 reported seeing only five large wild animal species.\n\nDuring the colonial period, the Sambisa game reserve covered an area of in the eastern part of the forest. Later reports put the size of the game reserve at 518 square kilometers, or 686 square kilometers although some official documents included the Marguba Forest Reserve in the Sambisa Game Reserve.\n\nFrom 1970, the reserve was used for safaris. It had a large population of leopards, lions, elephants, hyenas, that tourists could observe from cabins or safari lodges. In 1991, the government of the state of Borno incorporated this reserve into the national park of the Chad Basin. But the abandonment of its management, following the Sambisa takeover by Boko Haram insurgents in February 2013, led to the gradual disappearance of animals, lodges collapsed or were destroyed, vegetation invaded roads, and rivers dried up.\n\nThe Sambisa forest, especially the mountainous region of Gwoza near the Cameroon border, is used as shelter by the jihadist Boko Haram group and is believed to be where they keep the hostages from the Chibok schoolgirls kidnapping in April 2014.\n\nDuring spring 2015 the Nigerian Army started an offensive against Boko Haram in the forest, but was slowed down due to finding the forest to be heavily mined and the militants having better local knowledge. Despite this, on 28 April 2015, four Boko Haram camps in the Sambisa forest were overrun by the Nigerian military who freed nearly 300 girls and women, who were not, however, the missing Chibok girls. On 30 April 2015 another 13 Boko Haram camps were destroyed and 234 more women and children were reportedly freed near Kawuri and Konduga.\n\nThe Nigerian Army Wednesday night 4 November 2015, said troops of 5 Brigade Task Group, killed two Boko Haram suspects, after destroying their camps at Hausari and Baranga in Marte Local Government Area of Borno State. According to official statement by the military, \"In efforts to continually dominate recovered territories and clear all Nigerian territory of Boko Haram vestiges, the advancing troops of 5 Brigade Task Group have today cleared 5 more terrorists camps at Hausari and Baranga in Marte Local Government Area of Borno State.\"\n\nOn 18 May 2016, one of the schoolgirls abducted from Chibok in 2014, was reportedly found by local militia men fighting Boko Haram in the Sambisa forest. It was also reported that 218 of the girls were still missing and that the found girl claimed that except six, said to have died, all of them were still held captive in the forest.\n"}
{"id": "23265976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23265976", "title": "Saumatafanga", "text": "Saumatafanga\n\nSaumatafanga is an islet of the Fakaofo island group of Tokelau.\n\n"}
{"id": "24357613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24357613", "title": "Steve Coast", "text": "Steve Coast\n\nSteve Coast (born 20 December 1980) is a British entrepreneur and the founder of the OpenStreetMap community-based world mapping project and CloudMade, a geography-related company.\n\nCoast grew up in Walderslade and London, England.\n\nCoast interned at Wolfram Research before studying computing science at University College London (UCL).\n\nIn July 2004, he founded the OpenStreetMap project (OSM).\n\nCoast set up Z.X.V. Ltd. with Nick Black, Tom Carden and Ben Gimpert as a technology consultancy in 2005. In 2008 this became CloudMade after investment by Nikolaj Nyholm and Sunstone Capital (company's website claims it was established in 2007). He resigned from CloudMade in October 2010, although he remained a shareholder.\n\nOn 23 November 2010, Coast announced that he had accepted a position as Principal Architect at Microsoft's Bing Mobile.\n\nOn 3 September 2013, Coast wrote on his blog that he had started to work for TeleNav, taking care of OSM development for the company's Scout navigator.\n\nIn March 2014, Coast became an advisor to Auth0, an identity-as-a-service provider.\n\nIn November 2015, Coast published \"The Book of OSM\". The book contains 15 interviews conducted by Coast with various users who had participated in the project since its beginning.\n\nIn January 2016, he stepped down from full-time work at TeleNav and started his work as a board advisor in Navmii. In March 2016 he started working as Chief Evangelist for what3words. In May 2016 he became an advisor in MapJam. In fall 2017, he joined DigitalGlobe.\n\nIn 2008, Coast moved to the US, first to San Francisco and later to Colorado. In November 2010 Coast wrote that he would be moving to Seattle, Washington, USA. He moved back to Colorado in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "53588153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53588153", "title": "Terre Matildiche", "text": "Terre Matildiche\n\nThe term \"Terre Matildiche\" is referred to the group of territories ruled by the countess Matilda of Tuscany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48210340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48210340", "title": "Troublemakers (2015 film)", "text": "Troublemakers (2015 film)\n\nTroublemakers: The Story of Land Art is a 2015 American documentary film directed by James Crump. \"Troublemakers\" chronicles the history of land art in the 1960s and 1970s, when a group of radical New York artists began producing earthworks on a monumental scale in the desert spaces of the American southwest. The film follows the enigmatic careers of artists who use the earth itself as their primary medium, including Robert Smithson (Spiral Jetty), Walter De Maria (The Lightning Field) and Michael Heizer (Double Negative).\n\nEric Gibson of \"The Wall Street Journal\" gave the film a positive review, writing, \"A film that takes its place among the great art documentaries of the past half-century... filled with great moments, large and small... deftly captures the madcap ambition, grandeur and even sublimity of the works these artists created.\" Glenn Kenny of \"The New York Times\" in a NYT Critics' Pick called it a \"thrilling documentary,\" writing \"The film’s generous views of spectacular works like Smithson’s monumental (Spiral Jetty) (the work projects into the Great Salt Lake in Utah) and Mr. Heizer’s (Double Negative) in Nevada (a huge trench bisected by a canyon) are best seen on the largest screen available.\" John DeFore of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" called the film \"a colorful and sometimes gorgeous primer on this influential moment.\" Jordan Hoffman, writing for \"The Guardian\" of London proclaimed \"Forget \"Dawn of Justice\" – this is the best superhero team-up we’ll see at the cinema this year.\" Writing for \"The Huffington Post\", Patricia Zohn declared \"Troublemakers\" \"does something that is rare for art documentaries: It is very beautiful and dynamic itself in examining work that is challenging. It meets the subject head-on.\"\n\n\"Troublemakers\" has a score of 94% on Rotten Tomatoes and 65% on Metacritic. \n\nThe film premiered at the 2015 New York Film Festival on October 1, 2015, and released theatrically on January 8, 2016, via First Run Features.\n\n"}
{"id": "6752826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6752826", "title": "Île-à-Vache", "text": "Île-à-Vache\n\nÎle-à-Vache, (French, also expressed Île-à-Vaches, former Spanish name Isla Vaca, all translate to Cow Island) is a Caribbean island, one of Haiti's satellite islands. It lies in the Baie de Cayes about off the coast of the country's southwest peninsula, roughly between the town of Les Cayes and Pointe l'Abacou. It was formerly known by the name of Abacca. Administratively, it became a commune in 1976 as part of the Les Cayes Arrondissement in the Sud department.\n\nÎle-à-Vache was claimed by the Spanish Empire in 1492 as part of Hispaniola, and for the next two centuries it was known by the name Isla Vaca. In 1697 the island of Hispaniola was formally divided between Spain and France in the Treaty of Ryswick which ended the Nine Years War. France assumed control of the western half of Hispaniola and named it Saint-Domingue, and Isla Vaca took on its current name, Île-à-Vache.\n\nThe island is about long and wide, with an area of . The western end of the island has rolling hills with elevations as high as with several small swamps in the valleys; the eastern side of the island is swampy, and contains a lagoon with one of the largest mangrove forests in Haiti. The island is also surrounded by several dangerous shoals, reefs, and rocks that have been the cause of many shipwrecks throughout history, including that of the famous Canadian fishing and racing schooner \"Bluenose\", which was wrecked on the island in 1946.\n\nThe population of the island in 2015 was 14,004 adult inhabitants. Île-à-Vache is one of the most popular tourist sites in Haiti and it has some of the best island scenery in the Caribbean. There are two tourist resorts on the island, Port Morgan and Abaka Bay.\n\nThe pirate captain Henry Morgan (c.1635–1688) frequently used the little island as a base for his operations. Morgan planned and staged many of his largest raids from Isla Vaca, and lost multiple ships in the island's waters which have recently been found and explored by research divers.\n\nIn January 1669, Morgan brought ten ships and 800 men to Isla Vaca as a rendezvous point before launching a raid on the Spanish city of Cartagena. Because he and his fellow buccaneers had just captured two French warships, they decided to celebrate in the easily accessible Ferret Bay on the northwest side of the island. They made a fire to roast several pigs and fired the cannons of their flagship as was typical for a buccaneer celebration. In the midst of their drunken revelry, the ship's gunpowder magazine was accidentally lit, triggering an explosion that blew up Morgan's flagship \"Oxford\". In the explosion, Morgan, who was on board the ship, was thrown through the window of his quarters and into the sea. He survived the accident, but the \"Oxford\" sank, taking down with it the two captured French warships (which were tied to it) and about 200 of his men.\n\nThe ship, which was only below the water's surface, was found in 2004 by a team of researchers. They were accompanied by a team from the Welsh television channel S4C, which has made a documentary of the discovery. If there is still spoil located on board, is not yet known.\n\nIn 1675-1676 he again narrowly survived a costly shipwreck on the island's shores. Morgan had been appointed Lieutenant Governor of Jamaica and was on his way from England to take up the post. He possibly headed for Isla Vaca to salvage what he could from the sunken ships of the 1669 incident. But a storm arose and sank his ship \"Jamaica Merchant\", which was loaded with a full complement of cannon which he had been bringing to bolster the defenses at Port Royal. This ship has been found by researchers, who have recovered dishes, bronze coins, and the ship's anchor.\n\nThe current tourist resort of Port Morgan is named after him.\n\nFrom 1682-1684 French pirate Jean Hamlin used the island as his hideout while plundering English and Dutch ships.\n\nIn 1862 the entrepreneur Bernard Kock, who owned a Florida cotton plantation, visited the World Fair in London. When he saw two bales of cotton from Haiti, he was impressed by the quality and immediately saw a business opportunity. He was an ardent abolitionist, but he believed that after they were freed, former slaves had to have meaningful work. Therefore, he conceived the plan to develop Île-à-Vache by sending 5,000 emancipated slaves from the United States to grow cotton there.\n\nHe left for Haiti on May 17, 1862 and arrived in Jacmel on June 3. From there he went on horseback to Port-au-Prince, where he was warmly received by the president of the country, Fabre Geffrard. The negotiations were difficult, however. On the one hand, the president supported the arrival of more blacks to the country, but he was also reluctant to rent a piece of Haitian soil to a white man.\n\nStill, Kock managed to sign a contract on August 8 which granted him a 10 year lease of Île-à-Vache, with the right to an extension of a further 10 years. The rent was 3.5 gourdes (about $0.35) per hectare. He had to start operations within six months and a number of employee supervisors had to be black. They would be immediately naturalized as Haitians upon arrival. Kock was to provide a percentage of all the wood that he chopped on the island, as a kind of tax. The contract also guaranteed that he would protect the Haitian state, and that he would not have to pay import duties on the supplies that he imported.\n\nDuring the same period, the United States was embroiled in the American Civil War and President Lincoln, who was in favor of the abolition of slavery, was considering plans to establish \"colonies\" of emancipated slaves in countries like New Granada and Liberia where they could live and work. He even offered $50 to anyone who took a black person abroad and gave him a job there.\n\nKock left on August 14 for New York, and arrived on August 28. However, the American Secretary of State, William Seward, had received many complaints from Central American governments who saw no advantage in the advent of so many blacks to their region. In light of these complaints, Seward stalled Kock's plan.\n\nSo Kock went directly to President Lincoln. Lincoln had his doubts about Kock's sincerity at first. He suspected that Kock was only after the $50 per person which had been promised. Kock managed to convince him, however, and on December 31, the President promised that he would think about his plan. But just one day later, on January 1, 1863, Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, which contained not a single word about this or any other colonial plan.\n\nDisappointed, Kock moved to Washington. There, he managed to find some blacks who were interested in going to Haiti. Back in New York, he found three financiers who pledged $70,000 to his venture. On the basis of this pledge, Koch chartered the British ship the \"Ocean Ranger\" and with this ship he brought 500 people to Île-à-Vache on April 13, 1863. Some of his passengers became ill from smallpox while on board, forcing Kock to found a small emergency hospital upon arrival.\n\nKock closed with laborers on a 4-year contract for a wage of $0.16 per day, costs included. He printed special Gourde notes, upon which read the text \"Island of A'Vache\" and his own name, Bernard Kock. These were exchangeable for normal Haitian gourdes.\n\nThe financiers, however, did not fulfill their promise. They still paid the initial amount, partly in hopes of reaping the promised $50 per person. This reward remained in effect because the government continued to doubt Koch's good intentions. After the reward was given, the financiers sent scarcely any more money or supplies to the island. The workers found themselves in rebellion, and Koch had to call in 15 Haitian soldiers for help in controlling the situation. In addition, the financiers made increasing demands, which Koch could not meet without money and goods.\n\nUltimately, the contract was broken. On December 22, 1863 President Lincoln sent a ship to Haiti to bring the remaining 453 workers back to the United States.\n\nThe best-known personality on the island is Sr. Flora, a French-Canadian Franciscan nun who founded an orphanage and school which she has run for decades in the village of Madame Bernard.\n\nThe Haitian government has announced plans to begin an international touristic destination project on the island of Île-à-Vache.\nThe government’s projects on the island has launched with plans for 1,000 luxury hotel rooms, an archaeology museum, nightclubs, art galleries and craft boutiques. Since its commencement in 2013 to its projected completion in late 2015, this makes Île-à-Vache among the largest ongoing tourism projects in the Caribbean.\n\nThe government has built a 2.6-kilometre runway with plans for an international airport.\n\nAs of February 2014, the Haitian government has begun the process of expropriation and relocation.\n\n"}
