{"id": "42606359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42606359", "title": "14 - Diaries of the Great War", "text": "14 - Diaries of the Great War\n\n14 - Diaries of the Great War (titled \"Great War Diaries\" when aired on the BBC) is a 2014 international documentary drama series about World War I. It uses a mix of acted scenes, archive footage, and animation. All episodes were directed by Jan Peter, series authors were Jan Peter and Yury Winterberg. In a dramatic advisory capacity, Dutch producer and screenwriter Maarten van der Duin and BBC-author Andrew Bampfield worked on the film's development. The series is based on an idea by Gunnar Dedio, producer at the film company LOOKS Leipzig and Ulrike Dotzer, the Head of Department ARTE at Norddeutscher Rundfunk.\n\nThe individual episodes of the series tell the story of the First World War, not from the perspective of politicians and the military; but from the perspective of soldiers, housewives, factory workers, nurses and children. In total there are 14 main characters. Meaningful scenes from their lives are re-enacted and intertwined. The result is not only a political or military history of the First World War, but a story that poignantly captures the feelings and moods of the people.\n\nThe series was produced by LOOKSfilm Leipzig, Les Films d’ici Paris und Filmoption International Montreal.\n\nThe scripts are based on quotes from diaries and letters from men and women who experienced World War I in Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Austria-Hungary, Russia and the United States, who wrote during the period from 1914 to 1918. More than 1,000 journals and collections of letters were examined and 14 moving stories of World War I were selected from this compilation. Overall, the selection of the diaries and subsequent development work took four years.\n\nThe series uses cinematic and photographic archive material from a total of 71 archives in 21 countries. Most material came from British Pathé (United Kingdom), Gaumont Pathé (France), Krasnogorsk (Russia), Bundesfilmarchiv (Germany), Österreichisches Filmmuseum, the National Archives and Records Administration (USA) and the Imperial War Museum.\n\nThe series was filmed in France, Canada and Germany. Filming took place over a total of 50 days.\n\nThe French part of the shoot took place in and around Strasbourg. Among the location were the historical baths, an abandoned brewery and the chateau of Frœschwiller.\n\nThe Canadian part of the shoot took place in the province of Québec. Among the locations were an old quarry north of Montreal, where a trench system, complete with accompanying No-Man's-Land was constructed.\n\nSarah Broom Macnaughtan was born on 26 October 1864 in Partick, Scotland. Already having served in the Boer War, the British woman had experience as a nurse. In 1914, when assistants were being sought for the British Army in Belgium, she volunteered. In 1915 she witnessed the first gas attack at Ypres. Macnaughtan died on 24 July 1916 at the age of 51 years.\n\nCharles Edward Montague was born on 1 January 1867, the son of a Roman Catholic priest and grew up in London. After graduating, he became a journalist. Montague was anti-war and a pacifist - until the summer of 1914. Despite his 47 years, he volunteered for the war effort. After the war he resumed his journalistic career but retired shortly after in order to spend his old age as a writer. Charles Edward Montague died on 28 May 1928 at the age of 61 years.\n\nKäthe Kollwitz was born on 8 July 1867, in Königsberg. The well-known German artist was an avowed socialist and pacifist. But when the war began, the 47-year-old could not avoid the patriotic spirit of optimism in Germany. Her son Peter volunteered for military service, marched into Belgium in 1914 and was killed in October. \nKäthe Kollwitz died on 22 April 1945, in Moritzburg at the age of 77 years, a few days before the end of World War II.\n\nEthel Cooper was born on 24 December 1871 in North Adelaide. Between 1897 and 1906, she studied music in Leipzig, but returned temporarily to Australia. From 1911, Leipzig becomes her adopted home. When the war broke out, she found herself suddenly considered a foreign enemy. She was spied on and suffered from hunger and disease, but she was not allowed to leave the country. Caroline Ethel Cooper died on 25 May 1961 in Malvern, Australia at the age of 90.\n\nLouis Barthas was born the son of a barrel maker and a seamstress on 14 July 1879 in the French wine-growing region of Languedoc. He took up his father's profession. At 35 years of age Barthas was recruited into the reserve army. In the last days of 1914 he found himself on one of the most dangerous sections of the German-French front and experienced the horrors of trench warfare. After the war, he began work as a barrel maker once again. Barthas died on 4 May 1952 at the age of 72 years.\n\nKarl Kasser was born in 1889 in the Lower Austrian town of Kilb. Despite a hand injury, the 25-year-old farmer was deemed fit for military service. Reluctantly, he had to enlist in early 1915. He was captured by the Russians during fighting on the Eastern Front. This was the beginning of a multi-year odyssey throughout the Tsarist Empire which only ended on 4 October 1920. Karl Kasser died in 1976 at the age of 87 years.\n\nGabrielle West was born in 1890. For the young woman from a wealthy British family, it was only natural to serve her country through volunteer work. She becomes a guard in a munitions factory, where she is confronted with the terrible working conditions of the women there. Her date of death is unknown. Her diary was published under the name \"World War I diary of Miss G. West\".\n\nPaul Pireaud was born in 1890 in southwestern France. At the beginning of the war, Marie and Paul Pireaud were a young couple. But the young farmer was separated for a long time from his wife, Marie, by the war. His only connection to her was the field post. In his letters he tells of the suffering of the soldiers at the front. After many years together with his wife, Paul Pireaud died in 1970 shortly before his 80th birthday.\"Your Death Would Be Mine: Paul and Marie Pireaud in the Great War\", by Martha Hanna, was published in 2008.\n\nMarie Pireaud was born in 1892 near Paris. At the beginning of the war, Marie and Paul Pireaud were a happy, young couple. However, when her husband went to war, Marie had to do the hard work on the farm. In her very personal letters to Paul she writes about her jealousy and her great desire for intimacy, tenderness and a child. Later the couple give birth to a son. But there are unfortunately no grandchildren who might remember the love of the two. Marie Pireaud died eight years after her husband in September 1978 at the age of 86 years. \"Your Death Would Be Mine: Paul and Marie Pireaud in the Great War\", by Martha Hanna, was published in 2008.\n\nVincenzo D'Aquila was born on 2 November 1893 in Sicily. After the emigration of his parents, he grew up in the United States. In the spring of 1915, the 22-year-old traveled with a ship full of volunteers who wanted to fight for their original homeland. In Europe, however, the fighting caused D'Aquila to have psychological issues. He was forcibly consigned to a mental hospital with poor conditions characteristic of the time period, most particularly suspicion from the doctors that he was faking his issues to avoid the front. D'Aquila died on 26 July 1971 at the age of 78 years.\n\nErnst Jünger was born on 29 March 1895 in Heidelberg. The then high school student, who later became a writer, signed up for military service in August 1914. At the end of 1914, he was assigned to the front in France. He survived several battles before the end of the war in 1918, including the bloody battles of the Somme. He died in 1998 at the age of 102 years at the hospital in Riedlingen.\n\nMarina Yurlova was born in 1901 in a small village in the Caucasus. The daughter of a colonel of the Kuban Cossacks was just 14 years old when her father went to war in August 1914. In the search for her father, she became a child soldier in the Russian army at age 14. She originally worked as a groom in Armenia; however, after two months of this she was sent to fight the Turkish Army. In 1915 she was wounded while blasting bridges across the Erivan River. She was treated at the Red Cross hospital in Baku and then returned to the Eastern Front. In 1916 she was again wounded and also had a mental breakdown and was sent to an asylum. However, in 1919 she was released and emigrated to the United States. Yurlova published two autobiographies, \"Cossack Girl\" (1934) and \"Russia Farewell\" (1936). In 1984 Marina Yurlova died at the age of 84 years.\n\nElfriede Alice Kuhr (known as Piete) was born on 25 April 1902, in the German town of Schneidemühl (modern Pila), about 100 kilometers from the border with Russia. At the beginning of the war, the 12 -year-old girl, who lived with her grandmother, celebrated the German victories; but then Elfriede experienced how the war brought suffering and misery. She died on 29 March 1989, at the age of 86 years.\n\nYves Congar was born on 8 April 1904 in Sedan in northern France, where he grew up well protected until the age of ten. In 1914, he had to experience the German invasion and beginning of a four-year occupation of his hometown. Later he would become a Catholic theologian and cardinal. Yves Congar died on 22 June 1995 at the age of 91 years in Paris.\n\nThe 14 main characters of the series are played by the following actors.\n\nThe series is one of the most elaborate docudrama formats ever co-produced in Germany and was already sold in more than 25 countries worldwide before broadcast. The budget for the German version alone was around 6 million euros, for all the international versions together the budget was closer to 8 million euros.\n\nOn the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the start of World War the television broadcaster, ARTE, will broadcast an eight-part series beginning on 29 April 2014 in parallel in Germany and France. In Germany, Partners of the series are, next to ARTE - SWR, NDR and WDR, ORF in Austria and the BBC in the UK. The ARD / ORF will broadcast the series in four episodes of 45 minutes each. The BBC will show \"14 - Diaries of the First World War\" under the title \"Great War Diary\" in three episodes of 60 minutes.\n\nDutch broadcasters NTR and VPRO produced an additional episode about the situation in the Netherlands which aired on 5 April 2014, on Nederland 2. The remaining eight \"international\" episodes aired in the Netherlands between 12 April and 7 June.\n\nSweden's SVT had several additional segments produced for their airing of the series which included introductions to each episode by historian and author Peter Englund and dramatisations of diaries from six Swedes to tell the story of Sweden during the Great War. These were edited into the original eight episodes which meant they ended up with a running time of sixty minutes. This version of the series premièred on SVT1 on 26 June.\n\nThis list of episodes contains the eight episodes of the drama series \"14 - Diaries of the First World War\", sorted by date first screened on ARTE.\n\nThe score was created by the French composer Laurent Eyquem. Choir pieces were recorded in Prague.\n\nThe German edition of the series was released on 14 May 2014, on DVD and Blu-ray Disc.\n\nBeginning on 9 March 2014 the WDR broadcast a six-part, eponymous Radio Documentary by Christine Sievers and Nicolaus Schröder. This series is based and created in collaboration with the TV series.\n\nThe series is accompanied by a coffee table book, which is being published by BBC Books in the United Kingdom, and Bucher Verlag in Germany. In eight chapters, the book presents high resolution photographs, which were colorized prior and during World War I. Each photo is accompanied by a diary quote. The foreword is written by Peter Englund.\n\nThe accompanying book \"14 - Der große Krieg\" by Oliver Janz was published in October 2013 by Campus Verlag.\n\nThe Military History Museum Dresden shows in a special exhibition \"14-Menschen-Krieg\" from 01. August 2014 until 24. February 2015 all 14 biographies and their perspectives on World War I. The exhibition focuses on the eve of the war and furthermore shows the dimension and forms of sufferings of both, soldiers and civilians. The exhibition draws a conclusion of World War I and ends with a forecast on the soon to follow World War II.\n\nThe series received very positive reviews. Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung called it \"Gripping, emotional, and real. A milestone for European television.\". Süddeutsche Zeitung describes the series as \"A story of the destruction and the future of television.\". Stuttgarter Zeitung calls it \"Woven together like a modern television series.\". Neue Zürcher Zeitung says that \"the program manages to fascinate by combining different observations, in different locations, and managing to condense these into a coherent mood.\". Le Monde ascribes to the series \"a never before seen virtuosity\", while Direct Matin calls it \"of exceptional quality.\" The Dutch version of the series was described as follows by NRC Handelsblad: \"Phantastic Television Making… We ride a rollercoaster of emotions, as if we are not supposed to understand history but rather to live it ourselves.\" After watching the series on Netflix, William F.B. O'Reilly called the series \"superbly done\" and said \"unlike other Netflix programming that escapes the mind moments after consumption, \"14\" lingers. It consumes its viewers rather than the other way around.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22742786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22742786", "title": "2009 AFF U-16 Youth Championship", "text": "2009 AFF U-16 Youth Championship\n\nThe 2009 AFF U-16 Youth Championship was due to take place in Bangkok, Thailand between the 20 July and 2 August 2009, it was later moved to start on 6 August until 19 August but was eventually canceled one month prior to the opening day due to the H1N1 virus in the country.\n\n\nDid not enter:\n\n"}
{"id": "30857552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857552", "title": "24th World Scout Jamboree", "text": "24th World Scout Jamboree\n\nThe 24th World Scout Jamboree (Spanish:\"24º Jamboree Scout Mundial\", French:\"24e Jamboree Scout Mondial\") will be held at the Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve in West Virginia from 22 July to 2 August 2019. The hosting duties will be split between the Boy Scouts of America, Scouts Canada, and Asociación de Scouts de México. The theme is \"Unlock a New World\".\n\nThe Sustainability Treehouse is a living education center for visitors to the Summit Bechtel Reserve, not only providing information, but also immersing visitors in the concept of sustainability. Between the local timber used to build the structure, the rainwater recovery system, and the wind and solar generated energy, stream restoration, recycling and geothermal heat are just a few examples of the additional sustainability efforts practiced at the Summit.\n\nAt the Global Development Village, Scouts will have the opportunity to learn about global issues and how Scouting can help provide a solution. Many organizations will be on site from across the globe to showcase how Scouts can take what they learn at the jamboree and translate that into helping in their home country.\n\nThe Faith and Beliefs zone is an area where Scouts can learn about the different religions of the world and their history and support of Scouting. Jamboree participants will also have the opportunity to participate in a religious service according to their own custom and traditions.\n\nScouts will have the opportunity to share their culture with other Scouts of the world through, music, dance, games, food and more.\n\nDuring the jamboree, Scouts will have the opportunity to witness and participate in many special activities, starting each morning with a flag raising ceremony, special jamboree guests, musical performances, aircraft flyovers, and campfires.\n\nThe opening and closing shows will take place in the AT&T Summit Stadium, to showcase the best of Scouting.\n\nThe Season of Service, supported by the World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM), will give every Scout the opportunity to be involved in community service and to share their experiences with others, starting on 1 June 2019 and continuing until 21 July 2019, when the 24th World Scout Jamboree begins.\n"}
{"id": "12004655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12004655", "title": "Acute aortic syndrome", "text": "Acute aortic syndrome\n\nAcute aortic syndrome (AAS) describes a range of severe, painful, potentially life-threatening abnormalities of the aorta. These include aortic dissection, intramural thrombus, and penetrating atherosclerotic aortic ulcer. AAS can be caused by a lesion on the wall of the aorta that involves the tunica media, often in the descending aorta. It is possible for AAS to lead to acute coronary syndrome. The term was introduced in 2001.\n\nCauses can include aortic dissection, intramural hematoma, penetrating atherosclerotic ulcer or a thoracic aneurysm that has become unstable. The potential causes of AAS are life-threatening and present with similar symptoms, making it difficult to distinguish the ultimate cause, though high resolution, high contrast computerised tomography can be used.\n\nThe condition can be mimicked by a ruptured cyst of the pericardium, ruptured aortic aneurysm and acute coronary syndrome.\n\nMisdiagnosis is estimated at 39% and is associated with delays correct diagnosis and improper treatment with anticoagulants producing excessive bleeding and extended hospital stays.\n\nAAS is life-threatening, with a high mortality rate if appearing acutely, reduced only when diagnosed early and treated by a surgeon with considerable expertise. If patients survive acute presentation, within three to five years 30% will develop complications and require close follow-up. Early diagnosis is essential for survival and management is challenging though greater awareness of the syndrome and improving management strategies are improving patient outcomes.\n"}
{"id": "309283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309283", "title": "Andrei Amalrik", "text": "Andrei Amalrik\n\nAndrei Alekseevich Amalrik (, 12 May 1938, Moscow – 12 November 1980, Guadalajara, Castile-La Mancha, Spain), alternatively spelled \"Andrei\" or \"Andrey\", was a Russian writer and dissident.\n\nAmalrik was best known in the Western world for his essay, \"Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984?\"\n\nAmalrik was born in Moscow, during the time of Joseph Stalin's purges.\n\nWhen the Soviet revolution broke out, Andrei's father, then a young man, volunteered for the Red Army. After the war he went into the film industry. Andrei's father fought in World War II in the Northern Fleet and then the Red Army. He was overheard uttering negative views about Stalin's qualities as a military leader, which led to his arrest and imprisonment; he feared for his life, but shortly afterward was released to rejoin the army. In 1942 he was wounded at Stalingrad and invalided out of the service. Andrei's father's hardships explain Andrei's decision to become a historian. For his father, after climbing the educational ladder, was after the war refused permission to study at the Academy of Sciences' Institute of History on account of what authorities felt was his own compromised political past. But as historian John Keep wrote: \"Andrei has gone one better by not only writing history but by securing a place in it.\"\n\nAndrei's father developed a serious heart condition which required constant nursing. This care was provided first by his wife, and on her death from cancer in 1959 by his son Andrei, until Andrei's arrest prevented him from ministering to his father's needs. He died when Andrei was in prison.\n\nIn high school, Andrei Amalrik was a restless student and truant. He was expelled a year before graduation. Despite this, he won admission to the history department at Moscow State University in 1959.\n\nIn 1963, he angered the university with a dissertation suggesting that Scandinavian warrior-traders (Vikings, usually called Varangians in Russia) and Greeks, rather than Slavs, played the principal role in developing the early Russian state in the ninth century. Amalrik refused to modify his views and was expelled from Moscow University.\n\nWithout a degree, Amalrik did odd jobs and wrote five unpublished plays but was soon under the gaze of the security police for an attempt to contact a Danish scholar through the Danish Embassy. He also became close to the unofficial youth literary group SMOG. Amalrik's plays and an interest in modern non-representational art led to Amalrik's first arrest in May 1965. A charge of spreading pornography failed because the expert witnesses called by the prosecution refused to give the correct testimony. However, the authorities then accused Amalrik of \"parasitism,\" and he was sentenced by an administrative tribunal to banishment in western Siberia for a two-and-a-half-year term.\n\nHe was freed briefly and then rearrested and sent to exile in a farm village near Tomsk, in Siberia. Allowed to make a brief trip to Moscow after the death of his father, Amalrik persuaded Tatar expressionist artist, Gyuzel Makudinova, to marry him and share his exile.\n\nIt was this exile he described in \"Involuntary Journey to Siberia\" (1970). Thanks to the efforts of his lawyer, his sentence was overturned in 1966 and Amalrik returned to Moscow, moving with Gyuzel into a crowded communal apartment with one bath, one kitchen, and one telephone.\n\nDuring the trial of writers Andrei Sinyavsky and Yuli Daniel in February 1966, Amalrik and other dissenters stood outside of the trial to protest.\n\nAmalrik often met with foreign correspondents to relay protests, took part in vigils outside courthouses and even gave an interview to an American television reporter.\n\nAfter the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, pressure on Russia's intellectuals was stepped up by the authorities. Amalrik's apartment was twice searched, in May 1969 and February 1970.\n\nAmalrik was best known in the Western world for his essay \"Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984?\", published in 1970. The book predicts the country's eventual breakup under the weight of social and ethnic antagonisms and a disastrous war with China.\n\nWriting in 1969, Amalrik originally wanted to make 1980 as the date of the Soviet downfall, because 1980 was a round number, but Amalrik was persuaded by a friend to change it to the Orwellian inspired year of 1984. Amalrik predicted the collapse of the regime would occur between 1980 and 1985.\n\nAmalrik said in his book:\n\nAmalrik was incorrect in some of his predictions, such as a coming military collision with China, and the collapse of the Soviet Union occurred in 1991, not 1984. He also failed to predict that he himself would not survive 1980. Correct was his argument that:\n\nAmalrik predicted that when the breakup of the Soviet empire came, it would take one of two forms. Either power would pass to extremist elements and the country would \"disintegrate into anarchy, violence, and intense national hatred,\" or the end would come peacefully and lead to a federation like the British Commonwealth or the European Common Market.\n\nAs 1984 drew nearer, Amalrik revised the timetable but still predicted that the Soviet Union would eventually collapse.\n\nPredictions of the Soviet Union's impending demise were discounted by many, if not most, Western academic specialists, and had little impact on mainstream Sovietology. \"Amalrik's essay was welcomed as a piece of brilliant literature in the West\" but \"[v]irtually no one tended to take it at face value as a piece of political prediction.\"\n\nSoviet dissident Natan Sharansky described that \"in 1984 KGB officials, on coming to me in prison\" when Amalrik's essay was mentioned, \"laughed at this prediction. 'Amalrik is long dead', they said, 'but we are still very much present.'\"\n\nOf those few who foresaw the fall of the Soviet Union, including Andrei Amalrik, author Walter Laqueur argued in 1995 that they were largely accidental prophets, possessors of both brilliant insight into the regime's weaknesses and even more brilliant luck.\n\nFor several months after the publication of \"Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984?\" (1970) and \"Involuntary Journey to Siberia\" (August 1970), abroad, a criminal offence under Soviet law, Amalrik remained free to walk the streets of Moscow and to associate with foreigners.\n\nInevitably, for \"defaming the Soviet state\", Amalrik was arrested in November 1970 and sentenced to three years in a labor camp in Kolyma. At the end of his term, he was given three more years, but because of his poor health (he almost died of meningitis) and protests from the West, the sentence was commuted after one year to exile in the same region. After serving a five-year term, he returned to Moscow in 1975. Although they were not Jewish, the authorities tried to persuade Amalrik and his wife to apply for visas to Israel, the common channel for emigration from the Soviet Union; they refused. On September 13, 1975, Amalrik was arrested again. The police captain told his wife that he was arrested for not having permission to live in Moscow; he could have faced a fine or up to 1 year in prison for violating Soviet passport regulations.\n\nIn the early 1976 Amalrik and other dissidents conceived idea of the Moscow Helsinki Group; it was formed in May 1976.\n\nThe KGB gave Amalrik an ultimatum: to emigrate or face another sentence. In 1976 his family got visas to go to the Netherlands. He made a farewell tour of Russia before emigrating.\n\nAmalrik worked in the Netherlands at the Utrecht University, then moved to the United States to study and lecture. Later, he and Gyuzel bought a villa in France, near the Swiss border, where he worked on his book, \"Notebooks of a Revolutionary.\"\n\nHe scorned détente with the Soviet Union. He urged that Western trade and technology be linked to liberalization within the Soviet Union.\n\nOn November 12, 1980, Amalrik, his wife, and two other Soviet exiles, Vladimir Borisov and Viktor Fainberg, were on their way to Madrid to attend an East-West conference called to review the Helsinki Accords of 1975. \"Spanish police stated that Amalrik, coming from southern France, swerved out of his lane on a wet road near the city of Guadalajara and his car struck an oncoming truck. Mr. Amalrik was instantly killed by a piece of metal, probably from the steering column, which was embedded in his throat, according to the police. His widow, Gyuzel, received only slight injuries,\" as did the two other passengers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161779", "title": "Band of Brothers (miniseries)", "text": "Band of Brothers (miniseries)\n\nBand of Brothers is a 2001 American war drama miniseries based on historian Stephen E. Ambrose's 1992 non-fiction book \"Band of Brothers\". The executive producers were Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, who had collaborated on the 1998 World War II film \"Saving Private Ryan\". The episodes first aired in 2001 on HBO. The series won Emmy and Golden Globe awards in 2001 for best miniseries.\n\nThe series dramatizes the history of \"Easy\" Company, 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, of the 101st Airborne Division, from jump training in the United States through its participation in major actions in Europe, up until Japan's capitulation and the war's end. The events are based on Ambrose's research and recorded interviews with Easy Company veterans. The series took literary license, adapting history for dramatic effect and series structure. The characters portrayed are based on members of Easy Company. Some of the men were recorded in contemporary interviews, which viewers see as preludes to each episode, with the men's real identities revealed in the finale.\n\nThe title for the book and series comes from the St Crispin's Day Speech in William Shakespeare's play \"Henry V\", delivered by King Henry before the Battle of Agincourt. Ambrose quotes a passage from the speech on his book's first page; this passage is spoken by Carwood Lipton in the series finale.\n\n\"Band of Brothers\" is a dramatized account of \"Easy Company\" (part of the 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment), assigned to the United States Army's 101st Airborne Division during World War II. Over ten episodes the series details the company's exploits during the war. Starting with jump training at Camp Toccoa, Georgia, \"Band of Brothers\" follows the unit through the American airborne landings in Normandy, Operation Market Garden, the Siege of Bastogne, and on to the war's end. It includes the taking of the \"Kehlsteinhaus\" (Eagle's Nest) at Obersalzberg in Berchtesgaden and refers to the surrender of Japan. Major Richard Winters (1918–2011) is the central character, shown working to accomplish the company's missions and keep his men together and safe. While the series features a large ensemble cast, each episode generally focuses on a single character, following his action.\n\nAs the series is based on historic events, the fates of the characters reflect those of the persons on which they are based. Many either die or sustain serious wounds which lead to their being sent home. Other soldiers recover after treatment in field hospitals and rejoin their units on the front line. Their experiences, and the moral, mental, and physical hurdles they must overcome, are central to the narrative.\n\nThe series was developed chiefly by Tom Hanks and Erik Jendresen, who spent months detailing the plot outline and individual episodes. Steven Spielberg served as \"the final eye\" and used \"Saving Private Ryan\", the film on which he and Hanks had collaborated, to inform the series. Accounts of Easy Company veterans, such as Donald Malarkey, were incorporated into production to add historic detail.\n\n\"Band of Brothers\" was at the time the most expensive TV miniseries ever to have been made by any network, until superseded by the series's sister show, \"The Pacific\" (2010). Its budget was about $125 million, or an average of $12.5 million per episode.\n\nAn additional $15 million was allocated for a promotional campaign, which included screenings for World War II veterans. One was held at Utah Beach, Normandy, where U.S. troops had landed on June 6, 1944. On June 7, 2001, 47 Easy Company veterans were flown to Paris and then travelled by chartered train to the site, where the series premiered. Also sponsoring was Chrysler, as its Jeeps were used in the series. Chrysler spent $5 million to $15 million on its advertising campaign, using footage from \"Band of Brothers\". Each of the spots was reviewed and approved by the co-executive producers Hanks and Spielberg.\n\nThe BBC paid £7 million ($10.1 million) as co-production partner, the most it had ever paid for a bought-in program, and screened it on BBC Two. Originally, it was to have aired on BBC One but was moved to allow an \"uninterrupted ten-week run\", with the BBC denying that this was because the series was not sufficiently mainstream. Negotiations were monitored by British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who spoke personally to Spielberg.\n\nThe series was shot over eight to 10 months at Hatfield Aerodrome in Hertfordshire, England. Various sets, including replicas of European towns, were built. This location had also been used to shoot the film \"Saving Private Ryan\". Replicas were constructed on the large open field to represent 12 different towns, among them Bastogne, Belgium; Eindhoven, Netherlands; and Carentan, France. North Weald Airfield in Essex was also used for location shots depicting the take-off sequences before the D-Day Normandy landings.\n\nThe village of Hambleden, in Buckinghamshire, England, was used as a location extensively in the early episodes to depict the company's training in England, as well as in later scenes. The scenes set in Germany and Austria were shot in Switzerland, in and near the village of Brienz in the Bernese Oberland, and at the nearby Hotel Giessbach.\n\nTo preserve historical accuracy, the writers conducted additional research. One source was the memoir of Easy Company soldier David Kenyon Webster, \"Parachute Infantry: An American Paratrooper's Memoir of D-Day and the Fall of the Third Reich\" (1994). This was published by LSU Press, following renewed interest in World War II and almost 40 years after his death in a boating accident. In \"Band of Brothers\" Ambrose quoted liberally from Webster's unpublished diary entries, with permission from his estate.\n\nThe production team consulted Dale Dye, a retired United States Marine Corps Captain and consultant on \"Saving Private Ryan\", as well as with most of the surviving Company veterans, including Richard Winters, Bill Guarnere, Frank Perconte, Ed Heffron, and Amos Taylor. Dye (who portrays Colonel Robert Sink) instructed the actors in a 10-day boot camp.\n\nThe production aimed for accuracy in the detail of weapons and costumes. Simon Atherton, the weapons master, corresponded with veterans to match weapons to scenes, and assistant costume designer Joe Hobbs used photos and veteran accounts.\n\nMost actors had contact before filming with the individuals they were to portray, often by telephone. Several veterans came to the production site. Hanks acknowledged that alterations were needed to create the series: \"We've made history fit onto our screens. We had to condense down a vast number of characters, fold other people's experiences into 10 or 15 people, have people saying and doing things others said or did. We had people take off their helmets to identify them, when they would never have done so in combat. But I still think it is three or four times more accurate than most films like this.\" As a final accuracy check, the veterans saw previews of the series and approved the episodes before they were aired.\n\nLiberation of one of the Kaufering subcamps of Dachau was depicted in episode 9 (\"Why We Fight\"); however, the 101st Airborne Division arrived at Kaufering Lager IV subcamp on the day after it was discovered by the 134th Ordnance Maintenance Battalion of the 12th Armored Division, on 27 April 1945. For the film in the year 2000 a collaboration of Anton Posset with the film crew of Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks took place. Anton Posset gave the historical consultancy through photographs of the American/French liberators and the documentation of the survivor's reports he had collected over the years. The camp was reconstructed in England for the mini-series.\n\nIt is uncertain which Allied unit was first to reach the \"Kehlsteinhaus\"; several claim the honor, compounded by confusion with the town of Berchtesgaden, which was taken on May 4 by forward elements of the 7th Infantry Regiment of the 3rd Infantry Division. Reputedly members of the 7th went as far as the elevator to the \"Kehlsteinhaus\", with at least one individual claiming he and a partner continued on to the top. However, the 101st Airborne maintains it was first both to Berchtesgaden and the Kehlsteinhaus. Also, elements of the French 2nd Armored Division, Laurent Touyeras, Georges Buis and Paul Répiton-Préneuf, were present on the night of May 4 to 5, and took several photographs before leaving on May 10 at the request of US command, and this is supported by testimonies of the Spanish soldiers who went along with them.\n\nSince \"Band of Brothers\" focuses entirely on the exploits of \"E\" (Easy) Company during World War II, the series features a large ensemble cast.\n\n\n\n\"Band of Brothers\" received critical acclaim, mixed with doubts about the handling of individual characters.\n\nCNN's Paul Clinton said that the miniseries \"is a remarkable testament to that generation of citizen soldiers, who responded when called upon to save the world for democracy and then quietly returned to build the nation that we now all enjoy, and all too often take for granted.\" Caryn James of \"The New York Times\" called it \"an extraordinary 10-part series that masters its greatest challenge: it balances the ideal of heroism with the violence and terror of battle, reflecting what is both civilized and savage about war.\" James also remarked on the generation gap between most viewers and characters, suggesting this was a significant hurdle. Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" wrote that the series was \"significantly flawed and yet absolutely extraordinary—just like the men it portrays,\" rating the series four out of four stars. He noted however that it was hard to identify with individual characters during crowded battle scenes.\n\nPhilip French of \"The Guardian\" commented that he had \"seen nothing in the cinema this past year that impressed me as much as BBC2's 10-part Band of Brothers, produced by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, and Ken Loach's The Navigators on Channel 4\", and that it was \"one of the best films ever made about men in war and superior in most ways to Saving Private Ryan.\" Matt Seaton, also in \"The Guardian\", wrote that the film's production was \"on such a scale that in an ad hoc, inadvertent way it gives one a powerful sense of what really was accomplished during the D-Day invasion - the extraordinary logistical effort of moving men and matériel in vast quantities.\"\n\nTom Shales of \"The Washington Post\" wrote that though the series is \"at times visually astonishing,\" it suffers from \"disorganization, muddled thinking and a sense of redundancy.\" Shales observed that the characters are hard to identify: \"Few of the characters stand out strikingly against the backdrop of the war. In fact, this show is all backdrop and no frontdrop. When you watch two hours and still aren't quite sure who the main characters are, something is wrong.\"\n\n\"Band of Brothers\" has become a benchmark for World War II series. The German series \"Generation War,\" for example, was characterized by critics as \"Band of Brüder\" (the German word for \"Brothers\").\n\nThe premiere of \"Band of Brothers\" on September 9, 2001, drew 10 million viewers.<ref name=\"9/11\"></ref> Two days later, the September 11 attacks occurred, and HBO immediately ceased its marketing campaign. The second episode drew 7.2 million viewers. The last episode of the miniseries received 5.1 million viewers, the smallest audience.\n\nThe series was nominated for twenty Primetime Emmy Awards, and won seven, including Outstanding Miniseries and Outstanding Directing for a Miniseries, Movie, or Dramatic Special. It also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television, American Film Institute Award for TV Movie or Miniseries of the Year, Producers Guild of America Award for Outstanding Producer of Long-Form Television, and the TCA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Movies, Miniseries, and Specials. The show was also selected for a Peabody Award for ' ... relying on both history and memory to create a new tribute to those who fought to preserve liberty.'\n\nAll ten parts of the miniseries were released in a DVD box set on November 5, 2002. The set includes five discs containing all the episodes, and a bonus disc with the behind-the-scenes documentary \"We Stand Alone Together: The Men of Easy Company\" and the video diary of actor Ron Livingston, who played Lewis Nixon. A collector's edition of the box set was also released, containing the same discs but held in a tin case. \"Band of Brothers\" is one of the best-selling TV DVD sets of all time, having sold about $250 million worth as of 2010.\n\nThe series was released as an exclusive HD DVD TV series in Japan in 2007. With the demise of the format, they are currently out of production. A Blu-ray Disc version of \"Band of Brothers\" was released on November 11, 2008 and has become a Blu-ray Disc top seller.\n\n\nA number of books give further insight into Easy Company:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "951665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951665", "title": "Beslan school siege", "text": "Beslan school siege\n\nThe Beslan school siege (also referred to as the Beslan school hostage crisis or Beslan massacre) started on 1 September 2004, lasted three days, involved the illegal imprisonment of over 1,100 people as hostages (including 777 children), and ended with the deaths of at least 334 people. The crisis began when a group of armed Islamic militants, mostly Ingush and Chechen, occupied School Number One (SNO) in the town of Beslan, North Ossetia (an autonomous republic in the North Caucasus region of the Russian Federation) on 1 September 2004. The hostage-takers were the Riyad-us Saliheen, sent by the Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, who demanded recognition of the independence of Chechnya, and Russian withdrawal from Chechnya. On the third day of the standoff, Russian security forces stormed the building with the use of tanks, incendiary rockets and other heavy weapons. As of December 2006, 334 people (excluding terrorists) were killed, including 186 children. \n\nThe event led to security and political repercussions in Russia; most notably, it contributed to a series of federal government reforms consolidating power in the Kremlin and strengthening of the powers of the President of Russia. As of 2016, aspects of the crisis in relation to the militants continue to be contentious: questions remain regarding how many terrorists were involved, the nature of their preparations and whether a section of the group had escaped. Questions about the Russian government's management of the crisis have also persisted, including allegations of disinformation and censorship in news media, whether the journalists who were present at Beslan were allowed to freely report on the crisis, the nature and content of negotiations with the terrorists, allocation of responsibility for the eventual outcome, and perceptions that excessive force was used.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in a 2017 ruling criticised Russia for not taking sufficient precautions before the event, and for using excessive lethal force when concluding the siege which violated the \"right to life\".\n\nSchool № 1 was one of seven schools in Beslan, a town of around 35,000 people in the republic of North Ossetia–Alania, in Russia's Caucasus. The school, located next to the district police station, had around 60 teachers and more than 800 students. Its gymnasium, where most of the hostages were held for 52 hours, was a recent addition, measuring 10 metres wide and 25 metres long. There were reports that men disguised as repairmen had concealed weapons and explosives in the school sometime during July 2004, something the authorities later denied. However, several witnesses have since testified they were made to help their captors remove the weapons from the caches hidden in the school. There were also claims that a \"sniper's nest\" on the sports hall roof had been set up in advance.\n\nThe attack on the school took place in 2004 on 1 September—the traditional start of the Russian school year, referred to as \"First Bell\" or Knowledge Day. On this day, the children, accompanied by their parents and other relatives, attend ceremonies hosted by their school. Because of the Knowledge Day festivities, the number of people in the schools was considerably higher than on a normal school day. Early in the morning, a group of several dozen heavily armed Islamic-nationalist guerrillas left a forest encampment located in the vicinity of the village of Psedakh in the neighbouring republic of Ingushetia, east of North Ossetia and west of war-torn Chechnya. The terrorists wore green military camouflage and black balaclava masks, and in some cases were also wearing explosive belts and explosive underwear. On the way to Beslan, on a country road near the North Ossetian village of Khurikau, they captured an Ingush police officer, Major Sultan Gurazhev. Gurazhev escaped after reaching the town and went to the district police department to inform them that his duty handgun and badge were taken away.\n\nAt 09:11 local time, the terrorists arrived at Beslan in a GAZelle police van and a GAZ-66 military truck. Many witnesses and independent experts claim that there were, in fact, two groups of attackers, and that the first group was already at the school when the second group arrived by truck. At first, some at the school mistook the guerrillas for Russian special forces practicing a security drill. However, the attackers soon began shooting in the air and forcing everybody from the school grounds into the building. During the initial chaos, up to 50 people managed to flee and alert authorities to the situation. A number of people also managed to hide in the boiler room. After an exchange of gunfire against the police and an armed local civilian, in which reportedly one attacker was killed and two were wounded, the militants seized the school building. Reports of the death toll from this shoot-out ranged from two to eight people, while more than a dozen people were injured.\n\nThe attackers took approximately 1,100 hostages. The number of hostages was initially downplayed by the government to 200–400, and then for an unknown reason announced to be exactly 354. In 2005, their number was put at 1,128. The militants herded their captives into the school's gym and confiscated all their mobile phones under threat of death, and ordered everyone to speak in Russian and only when spoken to. When a father named Ruslan Betrozov stood to calm people and repeat the rules in the local language, Ossetic, a gunman approached him, asked Betrozov if he was done, and then shot him in the head. Another father named Vadim Bolloyev, who refused to kneel, was also shot by a captor and then bled to death. Their bodies were dragged from the sports hall, leaving a trail of blood later visible in the video made by the hostage-takers.\n\nAfter gathering the hostages in the gym, the attackers singled out 15–20 of whom they thought were the strongest adults among the male teachers, school employees, and fathers, and took them into a corridor next to the cafeteria on the second floor, where a deadly blast soon took place. An explosive belt on one of the female bombers detonated, killing another female bomber (it was also claimed the second woman died from a bullet wound) and several of the selected hostages, as well as mortally injuring one male hostage-taker. According to the version presented by the surviving hostage-taker, the blast was actually triggered by the \"Polkovnik\" (the group leader); he set off the bomb by remote control to kill those who openly disagreed about the child hostages and intimidate other possible dissenters. The hostages from this group who were still alive were then ordered to lie down and shot with an automatic rifle by another gunman; all but one of them were killed. Karen Mdinaradze, the Alania football team's cameraman, survived the explosion as well as the shooting; when discovered to be still alive, he was allowed to return to the sports hall, where he lost consciousness. The militants then forced other hostages to throw the bodies out of the building and to wash the blood off the floor. One of these hostages, Aslan Kudzayev, escaped by jumping out the window; the authorities briefly detained him as a suspected hostage-taker.\n\nA security cordon was soon established around the school, consisting of the Russian police (\"militsiya\"), Internal Troops, and Russian Army forces; Spetsnaz, including the elite \"Alpha\" and \"Vympel\" units of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB); and the OMON special units of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD). A line of three apartment buildings facing the school gym was evacuated and taken over by the special forces. The perimeter they made was within of the school, inside the range of the militants' grenade launchers. No fire-fighting equipment was in position and, despite the previous experiences of the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis, there were few ambulances ready. The chaos was worsened by the presence of Ossetian volunteer militiamen (\"opolchentsy\") and armed civilians among the crowds of relatives who had gathered at the scene; there were perhaps as many as 5,000 of them.\n\nThe attackers mined the gym and the rest of the building with improvised explosive devices (IEDs), and surrounded it with tripwires. In a further bid to deter rescue attempts, they threatened to kill 50 hostages for every one of their own members killed by the police, and to kill 20 hostages for every gunman injured. They also threatened to blow up the school if government forces attacked. To avoid being overwhelmed by gas attack like their comrades in the 2002 Moscow hostage crisis, insurgents quickly smashed the school's windows. The captors prevented hostages from eating and drinking (calling this a \"hunger strike\", which they said they joined too) until North Ossetia's President Alexander Dzasokhov would arrive to negotiate with them. However, the FSB set up their own crisis headquarters from which Dzasokhov was excluded, and threatened to arrest him if he tried to go to the school.\n\nThe Russian government announced that it would not use force to rescue the hostages, and negotiations towards a peaceful resolution took place on the first and second days, at first led by Leonid Roshal, a pediatrician whom the hostage-takers had reportedly asked for by name (Roshal had helped negotiate the release of children in the 2002 Moscow siege, but also had given advice to the Russian security services as they prepared to storm the theatre, for which he received the Hero of Russia award). However, a witness statement in the court indicated that the Russian negotiators confused Roshal with Vladimir Rushailo, a Russian security official. According to Savelyev's report, the official (\"civilian\") headquarters was looking for a peaceful resolution of the situation at the same time when the secret (\"heavy\") headquarters set up by the FSB was preparing the assault. Savelyev wrote that in many ways the \"heavies\" restricted the actions of the \"civilians\", in particular in their attempts to negotiate with the militants.\n\nAt Russia's request, a special meeting of the United Nations Security Council was convened on the evening of 1 September, at which the council members demanded \"the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages of the terrorist attack.\" U.S. President George W. Bush made a statement offering \"support in any form\" to Russia.\n\nOn September 2, 2004, negotiations between Roshal and the hostage-takers proved unsuccessful, and they refused to allow food, water, or medicine to be taken in for the hostages, or for the dead bodies to be removed from the front of the school. At noon, FSB First Deputy Director, Colonel General Vladimir Pronichev showed Dzasokhov a decree signed by Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov appointing North Ossetian FSB chief Major General Valery Andreyev as head of the operational headquarters. In April 2005, however, a \"Moscow News\" journalist received photocopies of the interview protocols of Dzasokhov and Andreyev by investigators, revealing that two headquarters had been formed in Beslan: a formal one, upon which was laid all responsibility, and a secret one (\"heavies\"), which made the real decisions, and at which Andreyev had never been in charge.\n\nThe Russian government downplayed the numbers, repeatedly stating there were only 354 hostages; this reportedly angered the hostage-takers who further mistreated their captives. Several officials also said there appeared to be only 15 to 20 militants in the school. The crisis was met with a near-total silence from then-President of Russia Vladimir Putin and the rest of Russia's political leaders. Only on the second day did Putin make his first public comment on the siege during a meeting in Moscow with King Abdullah II of Jordan: \"Our main task, of course, is to save the lives and health of those who became hostages. All actions by our forces involved in rescuing the hostages will be dedicated exclusively to this task.\" It was the only public statement by Putin about the crisis until one day after its bloody end. In protest, several people at the scene raised signs reading: \"Putin! Release our children! Meet their demands!\" and \"Putin! There are at least 800 hostages!\" The locals also said they would not allow any storming or \"poisoning of their children\" (an allusion to the Moscow hostage crisis chemical agent).\nIn the afternoon, the gunmen allowed Ruslan Aushev, respected ex-President of Ingushetia and retired Soviet Army general, to enter the school building and agreed to release 11 nursing women and all 15 babies personally to him. The women's older children were left behind and one mother refused to leave, so Aushev carried out her child instead. The rebels gave Aushev a video tape made in the school and a note with demands from their purported leader, Shamil Basayev, who was not himself present in Beslan. The existence of the note was kept secret by the Russian authorities, while the tape was declared as being empty (which was later proved incorrect). It was falsely announced that the hostage-takers made no demands. In the note, Basayev demanded recognition of a \"formal independence for Chechnya\" in the frame of the Commonwealth of Independent States. He also said that although the Chechen separatists \"had played no part\" in the Russian apartment bombings of 1999, they would now publicly take responsibility for them if needed. Some Russian officials and state-controlled media later attacked Aushev for entering the school, accusing him of colluding with the hostage-takers.\n\nThe lack of food and water took its toll on the young children, many of whom were forced to stand for long periods in the hot, tightly packed gym. Many children took off their clothing because of the sweltering heat within the gymnasium, which led to rumours of sexual impropriety, though the hostages later explained it was merely due to the stifling heat and being denied any water. Many children fainted, and parents feared they would die. Some hostages drank their own urine. Occasionally, the militants (many of whom took off their masks) took out some of the unconscious children and poured water on their heads before returning them to the sports hall. Later in the day, some adults also started to faint from fatigue and thirst. Because of the conditions in the gym, when the explosion and gun battle began on the third day, many of the surviving children were so fatigued that they were barely able to flee from the carnage.\n\nAt around 15:30, two grenades were detonated approximately ten minutes apart by the militants at security forces outside the school, setting a police car on fire and injuring one officer, but Russian forces did not return fire. As the day and night wore on, the combination of stress and sleep deprivation—and possibly drug withdrawal—made the hostage-takers increasingly hysterical and unpredictable. The crying of the children irritated them, and on several occasions crying children and their mothers were threatened with being shot if they would not stop crying. Russian authorities claimed that the hostage-takers had \"listened to German heavy metal group Rammstein on personal stereos during the siege to keep themselves edgy and fired up\" (Rammstein had previously come under fire following the Columbine High School massacre, and again in 2007 after the Jokela High School shooting).\n\nOvernight, a police officer was injured by shots fired from the school. Talks were broken off, resuming the next day.\n\nEarly on the third day, Ruslan Aushev, Alexander Dzasokhov, Taymuraz Mansurov (North Ossetia's Parliament Chairman), and First Deputy Chairman Izrail Totoonti together made contact with President of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, Aslan Maskhadov. Totoonti said that both Maskhadov and his Western-based emissary Akhmed Zakayev declared they were ready to fly to Beslan to negotiate with the militants, which was later confirmed by Zakayev. Totoonti said that Maskhadov's sole demand was his unhindered passage to the school; however, the assault began one hour after the agreement on his arrival was made. He also mentioned that journalists from Al Jazeera television offered for three days to participate in the negotiations and enter the school even as hostages, \"but their services were not needed by anyone.\"\n\nRussian presidential advisor and former police general, an ethnic Chechen Aslambek Aslakhanov, was also said to be close to breakthrough in the secret negotiations. By the time he left Moscow on the second day, Aslakhanov had accumulated the names of more than 700 well-known Russian figures who were volunteering to enter the school as hostages in exchange for the release of children. Aslakhanov said the hostage-takers agreed to allow him to enter the school the next day at 15:00. However, the storming had begun two hours before.\n\nAround 13:00 on 3 September 2004, it was agreed to allow four Ministry of Emergency Situations medical workers in two ambulances to remove 20 bodies from the school grounds, as well as to bring the corpse of the killed terrorist to the school. However, at 13:03, when the paramedics approached the school, an explosion was heard from the gymnasium. The hostage-takers then opened fire on them, killing two. The other two took cover behind their vehicle.\n\nThe second, \"strange-sounding\", explosion was heard 22 seconds later. At 13:05 the fire on the roof of the sports hall started and soon the burning rafters and roofing fell onto the hostages below, many of them injured but still living. Eventually, the entire roof collapsed, turning the room into an inferno. The flames reportedly killed some 160 people (more than half of all hostage fatalities).\n\nThere are several widely conflicting versions regarding the source and nature of the explosions:\n\n\nPart of the sports hall wall was demolished by the explosions, allowing some hostages to escape. Local militia opened fire, and the militants returned fire. A number of people were killed in the crossfire. Russian officials say militants shot hostages as they ran, and the military fired back. The government asserts that once the shooting started, troops had no choice but to storm the building. However, some accounts from the town's residents have contradicted that official version of events.\n\nPolice Lieutenant Colonel Elbrus Nogayev, whose wife and daughter died in the school, said, \"I heard a command saying, 'Stop shooting! Stop shooting!' while other troops' radios said, 'Attack!'\" As the fighting began, an oil company president and negotiator Mikhail Gutseriyev (an ethnic Ingush) phoned the hostage-takers; he heard \"You tricked us!\" in answer. Five hours later, Gutseriyev and his interlocutor reportedly had their last conversation, during which the man said, \"The blame is yours and the Kremlin's.\"\n\nAccording to Torshin, the order to start the operation was given by the head of the North Ossetian FSB Valery Andreyev. However, statements by both Andreyev and the Dzasokhov indicated that it was FSB deputy directors Vladimir Pronichev and Vladimir Anisimov who were actually in charge of the Beslan operation. General Andreyev also told North Ossetia's Supreme Court that the decision to use heavy weapons during the assault was made by the head of the FSB's Special Operations Center, Colonel General Aleksandr Tikhonov.\n\nA chaotic battle broke out as the special forces fought to enter the school. The forces included the assault groups of the FSB and the associated troops of the Russian Army and the Russian Interior Ministry, supported by a number of T-72 tanks from Russia's 58th Army (commandeered by Tikhonov from the military on 2 September), BTR-80 wheeled armoured personnel carriers and armed helicopters, including at least one Mi-24 attack helicopter. Many local civilians also joined in the chaotic battle, having brought along their own weapons – at least one of the armed volunteers is known to have been killed. Alleged crime figure Aslan Gagiyev claimed to be among them. At the same time, regular conscripted soldiers reportedly fled the scene as the fighting began. Civilian witnesses claimed that the local police also had panicked, even firing in the wrong direction.\n\nAt least three but as many as nine powerful \"Shmel\" rockets were fired at the school from the positions of the special forces (three or nine empty disposable tubes were later found on the rooftops of nearby apartment blocks). The use of the \"Shmel\" rockets, classified in Russia as flamethrowers and in the West as thermobaric weapons, was initially denied, but later admitted by the government. A report by an aide to the military prosecutor of the North Ossetian garrison stated that RPG-26 rocket-propelled grenades were used as well. The rebels also used grenade launchers, firing at the Russian positions in the apartment buildings.\n\nAccording to military prosecutor, a BTR armoured vehicle drove close to the school and opened fire from its 14.5×114mm KPV heavy machine gun at the windows on the second floor. Eyewitnesses (among them Totoonti and Kesayev) and journalists saw two T-72 tanks advance on the school that afternoon, at least one of which fired its 125 mm main gun several times. During the later trial, tank commander Viktor Kindeyev testified to having fired \"one blank shot and six antipersonnel-high explosive shells\" on orders from the FSB. The use of tanks and armoured personnel carriers was eventually admitted to by Lieutenant General Viktor Sobolev, commander of the 58th Army. Another witness cited in the Kesayev report claims that he had jumped onto the turret of a tank in an attempt to prevent it from firing on the school. Scores of hostages were moved by the militants from the burning sports hall into the other parts of the school, in particular the cafeteria, where they were forced to stand at windows. Many of them were shot by troops outside as they were used as human shields, according to the survivors (such as Kudzeyeva, Kusrayeva and Naldikoyeva). Savelyev estimated that 106 to 110 hostages died after being moved to the cafeteria.\n\nBy 15:00, two hours after the assault began, Russian troops claimed control of most of the school. However, fighting was still continuing on the grounds as evening fell, including resistance from a group of militants holding out in the school's basement. During the battle, a group of some 13 militants broke through the military cordon and took refuge nearby. Several of them were believed to have entered a nearby two-story building, which was destroyed by tanks and flamethrowers around 21:00, according to the Ossetian committee's findings (Kesayev Report). Another group of militants appeared to head back over the railway, chased by helicopters into the town.\n\nFirefighters, who were called by Andreyev two hours after the fire started, were not prepared to battle the blaze that raged in the gymnasium. One fire truck crew arrived after two hours at their own initiative but with only 200 litres of water and unable to connect to the nearby hydrants. The first water came at 15:28, nearly two and a half hours after the start of the fire; the second fire engine arrived at 15:43. Few ambulances were available to transport the hundreds of injured victims, who were mostly driven to hospital in private cars. One suspected militant was lynched on the scene by a mob of civilians, an event filmed by the Sky News crew, while an unarmed militant was captured alive by the OMON troops while trying to hide under their truck (he was later identified as Nur-Pashi Kulayev). Some of the dead insurgents appeared to be mutilated by the commandos.\n\nSporadic explosions and gunfire continued at night despite reports that all resistance by militants had been suppressed, until some 12 hours after the first explosions. Early the next day Putin ordered the borders of North Ossetia closed while some hostage-takers were apparently still pursued.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the crisis, many of the injured died in the only hospital in Beslan, which was highly unprepared to cope with the casualties, before the patients were sent to better-equipped facilities in Vladikavkaz. There was an inadequate supply of hospital beds, medication, and neurosurgery equipment. Relatives were not allowed to visit hospitals where the wounded were treated, and doctors were not allowed to use their mobile phones.\n\nThe day after the storming, bulldozers gathered the debris of the building, including the body parts of the victims, and removed it to a garbage dump. The first of the many funerals were conducted on 4 September, the day after the final assault, with more following soon after, including mass burials of 120 people. The local cemetery was too small and had to be expanded to an adjacent plot of land to accommodate the dead. Three days after the siege, 180 people were still missing. Many survivors remained severely traumatized and at least one female former hostage committed suicide after returning home.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin reappeared publicly during a hurried trip to the Beslan hospital in the early hours of 4 September to see several of the wounded victims in his only visit to Beslan. He was later criticised for not meeting the families of victims. After returning to Moscow, he ordered a two-day period of national mourning on 6 – 7 September 2004. In his televised speech Putin paraphrased Joseph Stalin saying: \"We showed ourselves to be weak. And the weak get beaten.\" On the second day of mourning, an estimated 135,000 people joined a government-organised rally against terrorism on the Red Square in Moscow. An estimated 40,000 people gathered in Saint Petersburg's Palace Square.\n\nIncreased security measures were introduced to Russian cities after the crisis. More than 10,000 people without proper documents were detained by Moscow police in a \"terrorist hunt\". Colonel Magomed Tolboyev, a cosmonaut and Hero of the Russian Federation, was attacked by Moscow police patrol and beaten because of his Chechen-sounding name. The Russian public appeared to be generally supportive of increased security measures. A 16 September 2004 Levada-Center opinion poll found 58% of Russians supporting stricter counter-terrorism laws and the death penalty for terrorism, while 33% would support banning all Chechens from entering Russian cities.\n\nIn the wake of Beslan, the government proceeded to toughen laws on terrorism and expand the powers of law enforcement agencies.\n\nIn addition, Vladimir Putin signed a law which replaced the direct election of the heads of the federal subjects of Russia with a system whereby they are proposed by the President of Russia and approved or disapproved by the elected legislative bodies of the federal subjects. The election system for the Russian parliament was also repeatedly amended, eliminating the election of State Duma members by single-mandate districts. The Kremlin consolidated its control over the Russian media and increasingly attacked the non-governmental organizations (especially those foreign-founded).\n\nThe raid on Beslan had more to do with the Ingush involved than the Chechens, but was highly symbolic for both nations. The Ossetes and Ingush had (and have) a conflict over ownership of the Prigorodny District, which hit high points during the 1944 Stalinist purges, and the ethnic cleansing of Ingush by Ossetes (the Ossetes getting assistance from the Russian military) in 1992-3. At the time of the raid, there were still over 40,000 Ingush refugees in tent camps in Ingushetia and Chechnya. The Beslan school itself had been used against the Ingush, as in 1992 the gym was used as a pen to round up Ingush during the ethnic cleansing by the Ossetes. For the Chechens, the motive was revenge for the destruction of their homes and, indeed families: Beslan was one of the sites from which federal air raids were launched at Chechnya.\n\nOnce it was broadcast that there were large numbers of children killed by a group that included Chechens, the Chechens were struck with a large amount of shame. One spokesman for the Chechen independence cause stated, \"Such a bigger blow could not be dealt upon us...People around the world will think that Chechens are monsters if they could attack children\".\n\nBy 7 September 2004, Russian officials stated that 334 people had died, including 156 children; at that point 200 people remained missing or unidentified. The Torshin report stated that ultimately no bodies remained unidentified. It was stated by the locals that over 200 of those killed were found with burns, and 100 or more of them were burned alive. In 2005 two hostages died due to injuries sustained in the incident, as did a hostage in August 2006. 33-year-old librarian Yelena Avdonina succumbed to a hematoma on 8 December 2006. At that time the \"Washington Post\" stated that the death toll was 334, excluding terrorists. The City of Beslan has a death toll of 335 stated on its website. The death toll includes 186 children.\n\nRussia's Minister of Health and Social Reform Mikhail Zurabov said the total number of people who were injured in the crisis exceeded 1,200. The exact number of people who received ambulatory assistance immediately after the crisis is not known, but is estimated to be around 700 (753 according to the UN). Moscow-based military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer concluded on 7 September 2004 that 90% of the surviving hostages had sustained injuries. At least 437 people, including 221 children, were hospitalized; 197 children were taken to the Children’s Republican Clinical Hospital in the North Ossetian capital of Vladikavkaz, and 30 were in cardiopulmonary resuscitation units in critical condition. Another 150 people were transferred to the Vladikavkaz Emergency Hospital. Sixty-two people, including 12 children, were treated in two local hospitals in Beslan, while 6 children with severe injuries were flown to Moscow for specialist treatment. The majority of the children were treated for burns, gunshot injuries, shrapnel wounds, and mutilation caused by explosions. Some had to have limbs amputated and eyes removed and many children were permanently disabled. One month after the attack, 240 people (160 of them children) were still being treated in hospitals in Vladikavkaz and in Beslan. Surviving children and parents have received psychological treatment at Vladikavkaz Rehabilitation Centre.\n\nOne of the hostages, a physical education teacher called Yanis Kanidis (a Caucasus Greek, originally from Georgia) who was killed in the siege saved the lives of many children. One of the new schools built in Beslan was subsequently named in his honour.\n\nThe operation also became the bloodiest in the history of the Russian anti-terrorist special forces. Ten members of the special forces died; the eleventh casualty was initially thought to be Vyacheslav Bocharov who proved to be heavily wounded in the face but alive when he regained consciousness and managed to write down his name.\n\nThe fatalities included all three commanders of the assault groups: Colonel Oleg Ilyin and Lieutenant Colonel Dmitry Razumovsky of Vympel, and Major Alexander Perov of Alpha. At least 30 commandos suffered serious wounds.\nInitially, the identity and origin of the attackers were not clear. It was widely assumed from day two that they were separatists from nearby Chechnya, even as Putin's presidential Chechen aide Aslambek Aslakhanov denied it, saying \"they were not Chechens. When I started talking with them in Chechen, they had answered: 'We do not understand, speak Russian.'\" Freed hostages said that the hostage-takers spoke Russian with accents typical of Caucasians.\n\nEven though in the past Putin had rarely hesitated to blame the Chechen separatists for acts of terrorism, this time he avoided linking the attack with the Second Chechen War. Instead, he blamed the crisis on the \"direct intervention of international terrorism\", ignoring the nationalist roots of the crisis. The Russian government sources initially claimed that nine of the militants in Beslan were Arabs and one was a black African (called \"a negro\" by Andreyev), though only two Arabs were identified later. Independent analysts such as that of the Moscow political commentator Andrei Piontkovsky said Putin at this moment tried to minimize the number and scale of Chechen terrorist attacks, rather than to exaggerate them as he did in the past. Putin appeared to connect the events to the US-led \"War on Terrorism\", but at the same time accused the West of indulging terrorists.\n\nOn 17 September 2004, radical Chechen guerilla commander Shamil Basayev, at this time operating autonomously from the rest of the North Caucasian rebel movement, issued a statement claiming responsibility for the Beslan school siege, which was strikingly similar to the Chechen raid on Budyonnovsk in 1995 and the Moscow theatre crisis in 2002, incidents in which hundreds of Russian civilians were held hostage by the Chechen rebels led by Basayev. Basayev said his Riyad-us Saliheen \"brigade of martyrs\" had carried out the attack and also claimed responsibility for a series of terrorist bombings in Russia in the weeks before Beslan crisis. He said that he originally planned to seize at least one school in either Moscow or Saint Petersburg, but lack of funds forced him to pick North Ossetia, \"the Russian garrison in the North Caucasus\". Basayev blamed the Russian authorities for \"a terrible tragedy\" in Beslan. Basayev claimed that he had miscalculated the Kremlin's determination to end the crisis by all means possible. He said he was \"cruelly mistaken\" and that he was \"not delighted by what happened there\", but also added to be \"planning more Beslan-type operations in the future because we are forced to do so.\" However, it was the last major act of terrorism in Russia until 2009, as Basayev was soon persuaded to give up indiscriminate attacks by the new rebel leader Abdul-Halim Sadulayev, who made Basayev his second-in-command but banned hostage taking, kidnapping for ransom, and operations specifically targeting civilians.\n\nThe Chechen separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov immediately denied that his forces were involved in the siege, calling it \"a blasphemy\" for which \"there is no justification\". Maskhadov described the perpetrators of Beslan as \"madmen\" driven out of their senses by Russian acts of brutality. He condemned the action and all attacks against civilians via a statement issued by his envoy Akhmed Zakayev in London, blamed it on what he called a radical local group, and agreed to the North Ossetian proposition to act as a negotiator. Later, he also called on western governments to initiate peace talks between Russia and Chechnya and added to \"categorically refute all accusations by the Russian government that President Maskhadov had any involvement in the Beslan event.\" Putin responded that he would not negotiate with \"child-killers\", comparing the calls for negotiations with the appeasement of Hitler, and put a $10 million bounty on Maskhadov (the same amount as put for Basayev). Maskhadov was killed by Russian commandos in Chechnya on 8 March 2005, and buried at an undisclosed location.\n\nShortly after the crisis, official Russian sources stated that the attackers were part of a supposed international group led by Basayev that included a number of Arabs with connections to al-Qaeda, and claimed they picked up phone calls in Arabic from the Beslan school to Saudi Arabia and another undisclosed Middle Eastern country.\n\nTwo English/Algerians were initially named as being among the identified rebels who actively participated in the attack: Osman Larussi and Yacine Benalia. Another UK citizen named Kamel Rabat Bouralha, arrested while trying to leave Russia immediately following the attack, was suspected to be a key organizer. All three were linked to the Finsbury Park Mosque of north London. The allegations of al-Qaeda involvement were not repeated since then by the Russian government. Larussi and Benalia are not named in the Torshin report and were never identified by Russian authorities as suspects in the Beslan attack.\n\nThe following people were named by the Russian government as planners and financiers of the attack:\n\nIn November 2004, 28-year-old Akhmed Merzhoyev and 16-year-old Marina Korigova of Sagopshi, Ingushetia, were arrested by the Russian authorities in connection with Beslan. Merzhoyev was charged with providing food and equipment to the hostage-takers, and Korigova with having possession of a phone that Tsechoyev had phoned multiple times. Korigova was released when her defence attorney showed that she was given the phone by an acquaintance after the crisis.\n\nRussian negotiators say the Beslan militants never explicitly stated their demands, although they did have notes handwritten by one of the hostages on a school notebook, in which they spelled out demands of full Russian troop withdrawal from Chechnya and recognition of Chechen independence.\n\nThe hostage-takers were reported to have made the following demands:\n\nDzasokhov and Zyazikov did not come to Beslan (Dzasokhov later claimed that he was forcibly stopped by \"a very high-ranking general from the Interior Ministry [who] said, 'I have received orders to arrest you if you try to go'\"). The stated reason why Zyazikov did not arrive was that he has been \"sick\". Aushev, Zyazikov's predecessor at the post of Ingushetia's president (he was forced to resign by Putin in 2002), entered the school and secured the release of 26 hostages.\n\nAslakhanov said that the hostage-takers also demanded the release of some 28 to 30 suspects detained in the crackdown following the rebel raids in Ingushetia earlier in June.\n\nThe 1 September <nowiki>11:00–11:30</nowiki> letter sent along with a hostage ER doctor: (The case papers of the Nur-Pashi Kulayev's criminal trial. File pages 196–198, the vetting protocol. Cited at the trial session 19 January 2006.)\n8-928-738-33-374\n\nWe request the republic's president Dzasokhov, the president of Ingushetia Ziazikov, the children's doctor Rashailo for negotiations. If anyone of us is killed, we'll shoot 50 people. If anyone of us is wounded, we'll kill 20 people. If 5 of us are killed, we'll blow up everything. If the light, communication are cut off for a minute, we'll shoot 10 people.\n\nThe telephone number according to pravdabeslana.ru; the federal committee reported 8–928–728–33–74. The hostage who was made to write the note misspelled doctor Roshal's name.\n\nThe 1 September <nowiki>16:00–16:30</nowiki> letter brought by the same female hostage contained a corrected phone number (ending with 47) and addition of Aushev to the list of requested persons, according to the federal committee report.\n\nThe 2 September <nowiki>16:45</nowiki> letter sent along with Ruslan Aushev: \n\nFrom Allah's slave Shamil Basayev to President Putin.\n\nVladimir Putin, it was not you who started this war. But you can finish it if you have enough courage and determination of de Gaulle. We offer you a sensible peace based on mutual benefit by the principle independence in exchange for security. In case of troops withdrawal and acknowledgement of independence of Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, we are obliged not to make any political, military, or economic treaties with anyone against Russia, not to accommodate foreign military bases on our territory even temporarily, not to support and not to finance groups or organizations carrying out a military struggle against RF, to be present in the united ruble zone, to enter CIS. Besides, we can sign a treaty even though a neutral state status is more acceptable to us. We can also guarantee a renunciation of armed struggle against RF by all Muslims of Russia for at least 10 to 15 years under condition of freedom of faith. We are not related to the apartment bombings in Moscow and Volgodonsk, but we can take responsibility for this in an acceptable way.\n\nThe Chechen people is leading a nation-liberating struggle for its freedom and independence, for its self-protection rather than for destruction or humiliation of Russia. We offer you peace, but the choice is yours.\n\nAllahu Akbar\n\nSignature\n\n30 August\n\nLater, Basayev said there was also an alternative option: if President Putin submitted a letter of resignation, the hostage-takers would \"release all the children and go back to Chechnya with others.\"\n\nAccording to the official version of events, 32 militants participated directly in the seizure, one of whom was taken alive while the rest were killed on spot. The number and identity of hostage-takers remains a controversial topic, fuelled by the often contradictory government statements and official documents. The 3–4 September government statements said total of 26–27 militants were killed during the siege. At least four militants, including two women, died prior to the Russian storming of the school.\n\nMany of the surviving hostages and eyewitnesses claim there were many more captors, some of whom may have escaped. It was also initially claimed that three hostage-takers were captured alive, including their leader Vladimir Khodov and a female militant. Witness testimonies during the Kulayev trial involved the reported presence of a number of apparently Slavic-, unaccented Russian-, and \"perfect\" Ossetian-speaking individuals among the hostage-takers who were not seen among the bodies of the militants killed during the assault by Russian security forces; witnesses also said they were not seen by the day of the crisis at all. The unknown men (and a woman, according to one testimony) included a man with red beard who was reportedly issuing orders to the kidnappers' leaders, and whom the hostages were forbidden to look at. He was possibly the militant known only as \"Fantomas\", an ethnic Russian who served as a bodyguard to Shamil Basayev.\n\n\nAccording to Basayev, \"Thirty-three mujahideen took part in Nord-West. Two of them were women. We prepared four [women] but I sent two of them to Moscow on August 24. They then boarded the two airplanes that blew up. In the group there were 12 Chechen men, two Chechen women, nine Ingush, three Russians, two Arabs, two Ossetians, one Tartar, one Kabardinian and one Guran. The Gurans are a people who live near Lake Baikal who are practically russified.\"\n\nBasayev further said an FSB agent (Khodov) had been sent undercover to the rebels to persuade them to carry out an attack on a target in North Ossetia's capital, Vladikavkaz, and that the group was allowed to enter the region with ease because the FSB planned to capture them at their destination in Vladikavkaz. He also claimed that an unnamed hostage-taker had survived the siege and managed to escape.\n\nOn 6 September 2004, the names and identities of seven of the assailants became known, after forensic work over the weekend and interviews with surviving hostages and a captured assailant. The forensic tests also established that 21 of the hostage-takers took heroin, Methamphetamine as well as morphine in a normally lethal amount; the investigation cited the use of drugs as a reason for the militants' ability to continue fighting despite being badly wounded and presumably in great pain. In November 2004, Russian officials announced that 27 of the 32 hostage-takers had been identified. However, in September 2005, the lead prosecutor against Nur-Pashi Kulayev stated that only 22 of the 32 bodies of the captors had been identified, leading to further confusion over which identities have been confirmed.\n\nMost of the suspects, aged 20–35, were identified as Ingush or residents of Ingushetia (some of them Chechen refugees). At least five of the suspected hostage-takers were declared dead by Russian authorities before the seizure, while eight were known to have been previously arrested and then released, in some cases shortly before the Beslan attack.\n\n\nThe male hostage-takers were tentatively identified by the Russian government as:\n\n\n\nIn April 2005, the identity of the \"shahidka\" female militants was revealed:\n\n\nEarlier reports named Yacine Benalia (35) – A British-Algerian who had reportedly been killed earlier, and Osman Larussi (35) – A British-Algerian, who had reportedly been killed already. They are not listed in the Torshin Report.\n\nThe captured suspect, 24-year-old Nur-Pashi Kulayev, born in Chechnya, was identified by former hostages as one of the hostage-takers. The state-controlled Channel One showed fragments of Kulayev's interrogation in which he said his group was led by a Chechnya-born man nicknamed \"Polkovnik\" and by the North Ossetia native Vladimir Khodov. According to Kulayev, \"Polkovnik\" shot another militant and detonated two female suicide bombers because they objected to capturing children.\n\nIn May 2005, Kulayev was a defendant in a court in the republic of North Ossetia. He was charged with murder, terrorism, kidnapping, and other crimes and pleaded guilty on seven of the counts; many former hostages denounced the trial as a \"smoke screen\" and \"farce\". Some of the relatives of the victims, who used the trial in their attempts to accuse the authorities, even called for a pardon for Kulayev so he could speak freely about what happened. The director of the FSB, Nikolai Patrushev, was summoned to give evidence, but he did not attend the trial. Ten days later, on 26 May 2006, Nur-Pashi Kulayev was sentenced to life imprisonment. Kulayev later disappeared in the Russian prison system. Following questions about whether Kulayev had been killed or died in prison, Russian government officials said in 2007 that he was alive and awaiting the start of his sentence.\n\nFamily members of the victims of the attacks have accused the security forces of incompetence, and have demanded that authorities be held accountable. Putin personally promised to the Mothers of Beslan group to hold an \"objective investigation\". On 26 December 2005, Russian prosecutors investigating the siege on the school declared that authorities had made no mistakes whatsoever.\n\nAt a press conference with foreign journalists on 6 September 2004, Vladimir Putin rejected the prospect of an open public inquiry, but cautiously agreed with an idea of a parliamentary investigation led by the State Duma, dominated by the pro-Kremlin parties.\n\nIn November 2004, the Interfax news agency reported Alexander Torshin, head of the parliamentary commission, as saying that there was evidence of involvement by \"a foreign intelligence agency\" (he declined to say which). On 22 December 2006, the Russian parliamentary commission ended their investigation into the incident. Their report concluded that the number of gunmen who stormed the school was 32 and laid much of the blame on the North Ossetian police, stating that there was a severe shortcoming in security measures, but also criticizing authorities for under-reporting the number of hostages involved. In addition, the commission said the attack on the school was premeditated by Chechen rebel leadership, including the moderate leader Aslan Maskhadov. In another controversial move, the commission claimed that the shoot-out that ended the siege was instigated by the hostage-takers, not security forces. About the \"grounded\" decision to use flamethowers, Torshin said that \"international law does not prohibit using them against terrorists.\" Ella Kesayeva, an activist who leads a Beslan support group, suggested that the report was meant as a signal that Putin and his circle were no longer interested in having a discussion about the crisis.\n\nOn 28 August 2006, Duma member Yuri Savelyev, a member of the federal parliamentary inquiry panel, publicized his own report which he said proves that Russian forces deliberately stormed the school using maximum force. According to Savelyev, a weapons and explosives expert, special forces fired rocket-propelled grenades without warning as a prelude to an armed assault, ignoring apparently ongoing negotiations. In February 2007, two members of the commission (Savelyev and Yuri Ivanov) denounced the investigation as a cover-up, and the Kremlin's official version of events as fabricated. They refused to sign off on the Torshin's report.\n\nThree local policemen of the Pravoberezhny District ROVD (district militsiya unit) were the only officials put on trial over the massacre. They were charged with negligence in failing to stop gunmen seizing the school. On 30 May 2007, the Pravoberezhny Court's judge granted an amnesty to them. In response, a group of dozens of local women rioted and ransacked the courtroom by smashing windows, overturning furniture, and tearing down a Russian flag. Victims' groups said the trial had been a whitewash designed to protect their superiors from blame. The victims of the siege said they would appeal against the court judgement.\n\nIn June 2007, a court in Kabardino-Balkaria charged two Malgobeksky District ROVD police officials, Mukhazhir Yevloyev and Akhmed Kotiyev, with negligence, accusing them of failing to prevent the attackers from setting up their training and staging camp in Ingushetia. The two pleaded innocent, and were acquitted in October 2007. The verdict was upheld by the Supreme Court of Ingushetia in March 2008. The victims said they would appeal the decision to the European Court for Human Rights.\n\nThe handling of the siege by Vladimir Putin's administration was criticized by a number of observers and grassroots organizations, amongst them Mothers of Beslan and Voice of Beslan. Soon after the crisis, the independent MP Vladimir Ryzhkov blamed \"the top leadership\" of Russia. Initially, the European Union also criticized the response.\n\nCritics, including Beslan residents who survived the attack and relatives of the victims, focused on allegations that the storming of the school was ruthless. They cite the use of heavy weapons, such as tanks and \"Shmel\" rocket flamethrowers. Their usage was officially confirmed. The \"Shmel\" is a type of thermobaric weapon, described by a source associated with the US military as \"just about the most vicious weapon you can imagine – igniting the air, sucking the oxygen out of an enclosed area and creating a massive pressure wave crushing anything unfortunate enough to have lived through the conflagration.\" Pavel Felgenhauer has gone further and accused the government of also firing rockets from an Mi-24 attack helicopter, a claim that the authorities deny. Some human rights activists claim that at least 80% of the hostages were killed by indiscriminate Russian fire. According to Felgenhauer, \"It was not a hostage rescue operation... but an army operation aimed at wiping out the terrorists.\" David Satter of the Hudson Institute said the incident \"presents a chilling portrait of the Russian leadership and its total disregard for human life\".\n\nThe provincial government and police were criticised by the locals for having allowed the attack to take place, especially since police roadblocks on the way to Beslan were removed shortly before the attack. Many blamed rampant corruption that allowed the attackers to bribe their way through the checkpoints; in fact, this was even what they had openly boasted to their hostages. Others say the militants took the back roads used by smugglers in collusion with the police. Yulia Latynina alleged that Major Gurazhev was captured after he approached the militants' truck to demand a bribe for what he thought was an oil-smuggling operation. It was also alleged the federal police knew of the time and place of the planned attack; according to internal police documents obtained by \"Novaya Gazeta\", the Moscow MVD knew about the hostage taking four hours in advance, having learned this from a militant captured in Chechnya. According to Basayev, the road to Beslan was cleared of roadblocks because the FSB planned to ambush the group later, believing the rebels' aim was to seize the parliament of North Ossetia in Vladikavkaz.\n\nCritics also charged that the authorities did not organize the siege properly, including failing to keep the scene secure from entry by civilians, while the emergency services were not prepared during the 52 hours of the crisis. The Russian government has been also heavily criticized by many of the local people who, days and even months after the siege, did not know whether their children were alive or dead, as the hospitals were isolated from the outside world. Two months after the crisis, human remains and identity documents were found by a local driver, Muran Katsanov, in the garbage landfill at the outskirts of Beslan; the discovery prompted further outrage.\n\nIn addition, there were serious accusations that federal officials had not earnestly tried to negotiate with the hostage-takers (including the alleged threat from Moscow to arrest President Dzasokhov if he came to negotiate) and deliberately provided incorrect and inconsistent reports of the situation to the media.\n\nThe report by Yuri Savelyev, a dissenting parliamentary investigator and one of Russia's leading rocket scientists, placed the responsibility for the final massacre on actions of the Russian forces and the highest-placed officials in the federal government. Savelyev's 2006 report, devoting 280 pages to determining responsibility for the initial blast, concludes that the authorities decided to storm the school building, but wanted to create the impression they were acting in response to actions taken by the terrorists. Savelyev, the only expert on the physics of combustion on the commission, accused Torshin of \"deliberate falsification\".\n\nA separate public inquiry by the North Ossetian parliament (headed by Kesayev) concluded on 29 November 2005 that both local and federal law enforcement mishandled the situation.\n\nOn 26 June 2007, 89 relatives of victims lodged a joint complaint against Russia with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The applicants say their rights were violated both during the hostage-taking and the trials that followed. The case was brought by over 400 Russians.\n\nIn an April 2017 judgement that supported the prosecutors, the court deemed that Russia's failure to act on \"sufficient\" evidence about a likely attack on a North Ossetia school had violated the \"right to life\" guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. The court stated the error was made worse by the Russian use of \"indiscriminate force.\" Result were published in April 2017, and found that Russian actions in using tank cannons, flame-throwers and grenade launchers \"contributed to the casualties among the hostages\", and had \"not been compatible with the requirement under Article 2 that lethal force be used 'no more than [is] absolutely necessary.\" The report also said that \"The authorities had been in possession of sufficiently specific information of a planned terrorist attack in the area, linked to an educational institution,\" \"nevertheless, not enough had been done to disrupt the terrorists meeting and preparing,\" or to warn schools or the public.\n\nThe ECHR court in Strasbourg ordered Russia to pay €2.9m in damages and €88,000 in legal costs. The Court's findings were rejected by the Russian Government. Although obligated to accept the ruling because it is a signatory of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Kremlin called the ruling \"unacceptable.\"\n\nIn opposition to the coverage on foreign television news channels (such as CNN and the BBC), the crisis was not broadcast live by the three major state-owned Russian television networks. The two main state-owned broadcasters, Channel One and Rossiya, did not interrupt their regular programming following the school seizure. After explosions and gunfire started on the third day, NTV Russia shifted away from the scenes of mayhem to broadcast a World War II soap opera. According to the \"Ekho Moskvy\" (\"Echo of Moscow\") radio station, 92% of the people polled said that Russian TV channels concealed parts of information.\n\nRussian state-controlled television only reported official information about the number of hostages during the course of the crisis. The figure of 354 people was persistently given, initially reported by Lev Dzugayev (the press secretary of Dzasokhov) and Valery Andreyev (the chief of the republican FSB). It was later claimed that Dzugayev only disseminated information given to him by \"Russian presidential staff who were located in Beslan from September 1\". Torshin laid the blame squarely at Andreyev, for whom he reserved special scorn.\n\nThe deliberately false figure had grave consequences for the treatment of the hostages by their angered captors (the hostage-takers were reported saying, \"Maybe we should kill enough of you to get down to that number\") and contributed to the declaration of a \"hunger strike\". One inquiry has suggested that it may have prompted the militants to kill the group of male hostages shot on the first day. The government disinformation also sparked incidents of violence by the local residents, aware of the real numbers, against the members of Russian and foreign media.\n\nOn 8 September 2004, several leading Russian and international human rights organizations – including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Memorial, and Moscow Helsinki Group – issued a joint statement in which they pointed out the responsibility that Russian authorities bore in disseminating false information:\n\"We are also seriously concerned with the fact that authorities concealed the true scale of the crisis by, \"inter alia\", misinforming Russian society about the number of hostages. We call on Russian authorities to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the circumstances of the Beslan events which should include an examination of how authorities informed the whole society and the families of the hostages. We call on making the results of such an investigation public.\"\nThe Moscow daily tabloid \"Moskovskij Komsomolets\" ran a rubric headlined \"Chronicle of Lies\", detailing various initial reports put out by government officials about the hostage taking, which later turned out to be false.\n\nThe late \"Novaya Gazeta\" journalist Anna Politkovskaya, who had negotiated during the 2002 Moscow siege, was twice prevented by the authorities from boarding a flight. When she eventually succeeded, she fell into a coma after being poisoned aboard an aeroplane bound to Rostov-on-Don. American journalist Larisa Alexandrovna of \"The Raw Story\" has suggested that Politkovskaya might have been later murdered in Moscow because she had discovered evidence of the Russian government's complicity in Beslan.\n\nAccording to the report by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), several correspondents were detained or otherwise harassed after arriving in Beslan (including Russians Anna Gorbatova and Oksana Semyonova from \"Novye Izvestia\", Madina Shavlokhova from \"Moskovskij Komsomolets\", Elena Milashina from \"Novaya Gazeta\", and Simon Ostrovskiy from \"The Moscow Times\"). Several foreign journalists were also briefly detained, including a group of journalists from the Polish \"Gazeta Wyborcza\", French \"Libération\", and British \"The Guardian\". Many foreign journalists were exposed to pressure from the security forces and materials were confiscated from TV crews ZDF and ARD (Germany), AP Television News (USA), and Rustavi 2 (Georgia). The crew of Rustavi 2 was arrested; the Georgian Minister of Health said that the correspondent Nana Lezhava, who had been kept for five days in the Russian pre-trial detention centers, had been poisoned with dangerous psychotropic drugs (like Politkovskaya, Lezhava had passed out after being given a cup of tea). The crew from another Georgian TV channel, Mze, was expelled from Beslan.\n\nRaf Shakirov, chief editor of the Russia's leading newspaper, \"Izvestia\", was forced to resign after criticism by the major shareholders of both style and content of the issue of 4 September 2004. In contrast to the less emotional coverage by other Russian newspapers, \"Izvestia\" had featured large pictures of dead or injured hostages. It also expressed doubts about the government's version of events.\n\nThe video tape made by the hostage-takers and given to Ruslan Aushev on the second day was declared by the officials as being \"blank\". Aushev himself did not watch the tape before he handed it to government agents. A fragment of tape shot by the hostage-takers was shown on Russian NTV television several days after the crisis. (See the video.) Another fragment of a tape shot by the hostage-takers was acquired by media and publicised in January 2005. (See the video – unavailable in Russia.)\n\nIn July 2007, the Mothers of Beslan asked the FSB to declassify video and audio archives on Beslan, saying there should be no secrets in the investigation. They did not receive any official answer to this request. However, the Mothers received an anonymous video, which they disclosed saying it might prove that the Russian security forces started the massacre by firing rocket-propelled grenades on the besieged building. The film had been kept secret by the authorities for nearly three years before being officially released by the Mothers on 4 September 2007. The graphic film apparently shows the prosecutors and military experts surveying the unexploded shrapnel-based bombs of the militants and structural damage in the school in Beslan shortly after the massacre. Footage shows a large hole in the wall of the sports hall, with a man saying, \"The hole in the wall is not from this [kind of] explosion. Apparently someone fired [there],\" adding that many victims bear no sign of shrapnel wounds. In another scene filmed next morning, a uniformed investigator points out that most of the IEDs in the school actually did not go off, and then points out a hole in the floor which he calls a \"puncture of an explosive character\".\n\nSeveral hostage-takers, including one of the leaders, Vladimir Khodov, had been previously involved in terrorist activities, but released from government custody prior to the attack despite their high profiles. According to a publication in \"Novaya Gazeta\", \"the so-called Beslan terrorists were agents of our own special forces – UBOP [Center for Countering Extremism] and FSB.\" According to FSB defector Alexander Litvinenko, the Russian secret services must have been aware of the plot beforehand, and therefore they themselves must have organised the attack as a false flag operation. He said that the previously arrested terrorists only would have been freed if they were of use to the FSB, and that even in the case that they were freed without being turned into FSB assets, they would be under a strict surveillance regime that would not have allowed them to carry out the Beslan attack unnoticed. According to Mothers of Beslan and Ella Kesayeva, the hostage taking might have been an \"inside job\", citing the fact that the militants had planted weapons in the school prior to the incident. In September 2007, Taimuraz Chedzhemov, the lawyer representing the Mothers of Beslan, who was seeking to prosecute Russian officials over the massacre, said he had withdrawn from the case because of an anonymous death threat to his family. He said he believed the death threat was linked to a decision by the group he represented to name senior officials involved in the chaotic rescue operation whom they want put on trial.\n\nIn general, the criticism was rejected by the Russian government. President Vladimir Putin specifically dismissed the foreign criticism as Cold War mentality and said that the West wants to \"pull the strings so that Russia won't raise its head.\"\n\nThe Russian government defended the use of tanks and other heavy weaponry, arguing that it was used only after surviving hostages escaped from the school. However, this contradicts the eyewitness accounts, including by the reporters and former hostages. According to the survivors and other witnesses, many hostages were seriously wounded and could not possibly escape by themselves, while others were kept by the militants as human shields and moved through the building.\n\nDeputy Prosecutor General of Russia Nikolai Shepel, acting as deputy prosecutor at the trial of Kulayev, found no fault with the security forces in handling the siege, \"According to the conclusions of the investigation, the expert commission did not find any violations that could be responsible for the harmful consequences.\" Shepel acknowledged that commandos fired flamethrowers, but said this could not have sparked the fire that caused most of the deaths; he also said that the troops did not use napalm during the attack.\n\nTo address doubts, Putin launched a Duma parliamentary investigation led by Alexander Torshin, resulting in the report which criticised the federal government only indirectly and instead put blame for \"a whole number of blunders and shortcomings\" on local authorities. The findings of the federal and the North Ossetian commissions differed widely in many main aspects. Deputy Prosecutor General Vladimir Kolesnikov, sent by Putin in September 2005 to investigate the circumstances, concluded on 30 September that \"the actions of the military personnel were justified, and there are no grounds to open a criminal investigation.\"\n\nIn 2005, previously unreleased documents by the national commission in Moscow were made available to \"Der Spiegel\". According to the paper, \"instead of calling for self-criticism in the wake of the disaster, the commission recommended the Russian government to crack down harder.\"\n\nThree local top officials resigned the aftermath of the tragedy:\n\nFive Ossetian and Ingush police officers were tried in the local courts; all of them were subsequently amnestied or acquitted in 2007. As of December 2009, none of the Russian federal officials suffered consequences in connection with the Beslan events.\n\nNur-Pashi Kulayev claimed that attacking a school and targeting mothers and young children was not merely coincidental, but was deliberately designed for maximum outrage with the purpose of igniting a wider war in the Caucasus. According to Kulayev, the attackers hoped that the mostly Orthodox Ossetians would attack their mostly Muslim Ingush and Chechen neighbours to seek revenge, encouraging ethnic and religious hatred and strife throughout the North Caucasus. North Ossetia and Ingushetia had previously been involved in a brief but bloody conflict in 1992 over disputed land in the North Ossetian Prigorodny District, leaving up to 1,000 dead and some 40,000 to 60,000 displaced persons, mostly Ingush. Indeed, shortly after the Beslan massacre, 3,000 people demonstrated in Vladikavkaz calling for revenge against the ethnic Ingush.\n\nThe expected backlash against neighbouring nations failed to materialise on a massive scale. In one noted incident, a group of ethnic Ossetian soldiers led by a Russian officer detained two Chechen Spetsnaz soldiers and executed one of them. In July 2007, the office of the presidential envoy for the Southern Federal District Dmitry Kozak announced that a North Ossetian armed group engaged in abductions as retaliation for the Beslan school hostage-taking. FSB Lieutenant Colonel Alikhan Kalimatov, sent from Moscow to investigate these cases, was shot dead by unidentified gunmen in September 2007.\n\nIn September 2005, the self-proclaimed faith healer and miracle-maker Grigory Grabovoy promised he could resurrect the murdered children. Grabovoy was arrested and indicted of fraud in April 2006, amidst the accusations that he was being used by the government as a tool to discredit the Mothers of Beslan.\n\nIn January 2008, the Voice of Beslan group, which in the previous year had been court-ordered to disband, was charged by Russian prosecutors with \"extremism\" for their appeals in 2005 to the European Parliament to help establish an international investigation. This was soon followed with other charges, some of them relating to the 2007 court incident. As of February 2008, the group was charged in total of four different criminal cases.\n\nRussian Patriarch Alexius II's plans to build an Orthodox church as part of the Beslan monument have caused a serious conflict between the Orthodox Church and the leadership of the Russian Muslims in 2007. Beslan victims organizations also spoke against the project and many in Beslan want the ruins of the school to be preserved, opposing the government plan of its demolition to begin with.\n\nThe attack at Beslan was met with international abhorrence and universal condemnation. Countries and charities around the world donated to funds set up to assist the families and children that were involved in the Beslan crisis.\n\nAt the end of 2004, the International Foundation For Terror Act Victims had raised over $1.2 million with a goal of $10 million. The Israeli government offered help in rehabilitating freed hostages, and during Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov's visit to China in November 2005, the Chinese Health Ministry announced that they were sending doctors to Beslan, and offered free medical care to any of the victims who still needed treatment. The then mayor of Croatia's capital Zagreb, Vlasta Pavić, offered free vacations to the Adriatic Sea to the Beslan children.\n\nOn 1 September 2005, UNICEF marked the first anniversary of the Beslan school tragedy by calling on all adults to shield children from war and conflict.\n\nMaria Sharapova and many other female Russian tennis players wore black ribbons during the US Open 2004 in memory of the tragedy.\n\nIn August 2005, two new schools were built in Beslan, paid for by the Moscow government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42939282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42939282", "title": "Cine 21", "text": "Cine 21\n\nCine 21 is a movie magazine issued by \"Hangyeore newspaper\". The magazine was first published on 14 April 1995. The first editor-in-chief was Seon-hee Cho, the culture desk journalist. The first issue was published with the articles including \"Who is controlling Korean film industry\", \"The vote of 'Korean film power 50'\". 1 August 2003, \"Cine21\" separated itself from \"Hangyeore Newspaper\" and issued a corporate body.\n\n\nThe two monthly film magazines, \"Kino\", issued its first number in May 1995, and \"Premiere\", got license permission from United States in December 1995, triggered Korean film magazine market boom. Before the two magazines, there were \"Screen\", issued its first number March 1984, and \"Road Show\". In October 1999, weekly film magazine \"Preview\" was published, however, it disappears after the 4th issue. The film magazine market transformed its type as a weekly magazine from monthly magazine through the appearance of \"Cine Bus\", issued its first number on 2 September 2000, and \"Film 2.0\" started on 19 December 2000. In the year 2001, \"Movie Week\" set their price to 1000 Won and centered public's attention. The weekly magazines became active throughout the market, however, the monthly magazines kept on downsizing. To the last, the first movie magazine \"Kino\" has ceased publication in 2003 and \"Road Show\" also discontinued in 2003. \"Premiere\" changed its type to two-weekly publishing magazine. The only monthly film magazine \"Screen\" discontinued in 2010, December. \"Movie Week\" merged with \"Magazine M\", running by Joongang Newspaper, one of the biggest press in Korea. Nowadays, only two film magazines are on the road : \"Cine 21\" and \"Magazine M\".\n\n\"Cine 21\" is one of the stakeholders of film distributor Little Big Pictures.\n\n"}
{"id": "54920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54920", "title": "Cockfight", "text": "Cockfight\n\nA cockfight is a blood sport between two cocks, or gamecocks, held in a ring called a cockpit. The history of raising fowl for fighting goes back 6,000 years. The first documented use of the \"word\" gamecock, denoting use of the cock as to a \"game\", a sport, pastime or entertainment, was recorded in 1634, after the term \"cock of the game\" used by George Wilson, in the earliest known book on the sport of cockfighting in \"The Commendation of Cocks and Cock Fighting\" in 1607. But it was during Magellan's voyage of discovery of the Philippines in 1521 when modern cockfighting was first witnessed and documented by Antonio Pigafetta, Magellan's chronicler, in the kingdom of Taytay.\n\nThe combatants, referred to as gamecocks (not to be confused with game birds), are specially bred and conditioned for increased stamina and strength. Male and female chickens of such a breed are referred to as game fowl.\n\nCocks possess congenital aggression toward all males of the same species. Wagers are often made on the outcome of the match.\n\nCockfighting is a blood sport due in some part to the physical trauma the cocks inflict on each other, which is sometimes increased by attaching metal spurs to the cocks' natural spurs. While not all fights are to the death, the cocks may endure significant physical trauma. In some areas around the world, cockfighting is still practiced as a mainstream event; in some countries it is regulated by law, or forbidden outright. Advocates of the \"age old sport\" often list cultural and religious relevance as reasons for perpetuation of cockfighting as a sport.\n\nTwo owners place their gamecock in the cockpit. The cocks fight until ultimately one of them dies or is critically injured. Historically, this was in a \"cockpit\", a term which was also used in the 16th century to mean a place of entertainment or frenzied activity. William Shakespeare used the term in \"Henry V\" to specifically mean the area around the stage of a theatre. In Tudor times, the Palace of Westminster had a permanent cockpit, called the Cockpit-in-Court.\n\nCockfighting is an ancient spectator sport. There is evidence that cockfighting was a pastime in the Indus Valley Civilization. The Encyclopædia Britannica (2008) holds:\n\nBased on his analysis of a Mohenjo-daro seal, Iravatham Mahadevan speculates that the city's ancient name could have been Kukkutarma (\"the city [-rma] of the cockerel [kukkuta]\"). However, according to a recent study, \"it is not known whether these birds made much contribution to the modern domestic fowl. Chickens from the Harappan culture of the Indus Valley (2500–2100 BC) may have been the main source of diffusion throughout the world.\" \"Within the Indus Valley, indications are that chickens were used for sport and not for food\" (Zeuner 1963) and that by 1000 BC they had assumed \"religious significance\".\n\nSome additional insight into the pre-history of European and American secular cockfighting may be taken from \"The London Encyclopaedia\":\n\nAn early image of a fighting rooster has been found on a 6th-century BC seal of Jaazaniah from the biblical city of Mizpah in Benjamin, near Jerusalem. Remains of these birds have been found at other Israelite Iron Age sites, when the rooster was used as a fighting bird; they are also pictured on other seals from the period as a symbol of ferocity, such as the late-7th-century BC red jasper seal inscribed \"Jehoahaz, son of the king\", which likely belonged to Jehoahaz of Judah \"while he was still a prince during his father's life\".\n\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz wrote the influential essay \"\", on the meaning of the cockfight in Balinese culture.\n\nIn some regional variations, the birds are equipped with either metal spurs (called \"gaffs\") or knives, tied to the leg in the area where the bird's natural spur has been partially removed. A \"cockspur\" is a bracelet (often made of leather) with a curved, sharp spike which is attached to the leg of the bird. The spikes typically range in length from \"short spurs\" of just over an inch to \"long spurs\" almost two and a half inches long. In the highest levels of 17th century English cockfighting, the spikes were made of silver. The sharp spurs have been known to injure or even kill the bird handlers. In the \"naked heel\" variation, the bird's natural spurs are left intact and sharpened: fighting is done without gaffs or taping, particularly in India (especially in Tamil Nadu). There it is mostly fought naked heel and either three rounds of twenty minutes with a gap of again twenty minutes or four rounds of fifteen minutes each and a gap of fifteen minutes between them.\n\nIn Cuba, cockfighting is legal and popular, although gambling on matches has been banned since the 1959 Revolution. The state has opened official arenas, including a 1,000-seat venue in Ciego de Ávila, but there are also banned underground cockfighting pits.\n\nIn Mexico, cockfighting is banned in Mexico City, but is practiced in the Mexican states of Michoacán, Aguascalientes, Jalisco, Sinaloa, and Veracruz, mostly during regional fairs and other celebrations. Cockfights are performed in \"palenques\" (pits). Cockfighting remains legal in the municipality of Ixmiquilpan.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopedia of Latino Culture\", Peru \"has probably the longest historical tradition\" with cockfighting, with the practice possibly dating back to the 16th century. Cockfighting is legal and regulated by the government in Peru. Most pits (\"coliseos\") in the country are located in Lima.\n\nCockfighting, known in Brazil as \"rinha de galos\", was banned in 1934 with the help of President Getúlio Vargas through Brazil's 1934 constitution, passed on 16 July. Based on the recognition of animals in the Constitution, a Brazilian Supreme Court ruling resulted in the ban of animal related activities that involve claimed \"animal suffering such as cockfighting, and a tradition practiced in southern Brazil, known as 'Farra do Boi' (the Oxen Festival)\", stating that \"animals also have the right to legal protection against mistreatment and suffering\".\n\nCockfighting is common throughout Southeast Asia, where it is implicated in spreading bird flu. Christianity might shun the belief in spirits, but in Southeast Asia, indigenous interpretations of the veneration of saints and passion plays dominate. In the Christian northern Philippines, respect is accorded the veneration of traditional anito (spirits), shamans number in the thousands and Catholic priests are powerless to stop cockfighting, a popular form of fertility worship in Southeast Asia. Also in rural northern Thailand a religious ceremony honoring ancestral spirits takes place known as \"faun phii\", spirit dance or ghost dance, and includes offerings for ancestors with spirit mediums sword fighting, spirit possessed dancing, and \"spirit mediums cockfighting\", in a spiritual cockfight.\n\nCockfighting (\"Kodi Pandem\" in Telugu) (\"Kori katta\" in Tulu) (\"Vetrukkaal seval porr\" in Tamil which means \"naked heel cockfight\") is a favourite sport of people living in the coastal region of Andhra Pradesh, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts of Tulu Nadu region of Karnataka, and the state of Tamil Nadu, India. Three- or four-inch blades (\"Bal\" in Tulu) are attached to the cocks' legs. Knockout fights to the death are widely practised in Andhra Pradesh. In Tamil Nadu, the winner is decided after three or four rounds. People watch with intense interest surrounding the cocks. The sport has gradually become a gambling sport.\n\nIn Jharkhand the cockfighting game is known as 'pada' and the spurs are called 'kant' lots of people enjoy the game, the cockpit is called 'chhad' person in the cockpit or who ties the spurs is called 'kantkar'.\n\nIn the Tamil Nadu districts of Chennai, Tanjore, Trichy and Salem, only the 'naked heel' variation is permitted. In Erode, Thiruppur, Karur and Coimbatore districts, only bloody blade fights are conducted. During festival seasons, this is the major game for men. Women normally don't participate. Only the Pure breeds are chosen to the fight. Naked heel cocks Fight for long duration compared with Blade fight cocks. \n\nThe cockfight, or more accurately expressed the secular cockfight, is an intense sport, recreation, or pastime to some, while to others, the cockfight remains an ancient religious ritual, a sacred ceremony (i.e. a religious and spiritual cockfight) associated with the ‘daivasthanams’ (temples) and held at the temples precincts.\nIn January 2012 at India's 'Sun God' Festival the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district committee, demanded that police not interfere in the cockfighting known as ‘kozhi kettu’ as it is a part of the temple rituals, while the police replied they would not interfere if the cockfight is held at a temple.\n\nCockfighting is a very old tradition in Balinese Hinduism, the Batur Bang Inscriptions I (from the year 933) and the Batuan Inscription (dated 944 on the Balinese Caka calendar) disclose that the \"tabuh rah\" ritual has existed for centuries.\n\nIn Bali, cockfights, known as \"tajen\", are practiced in an ancient religious purification ritual to expel evil spirits. This ritual, a form of animal sacrifice, is called \"tabuh rah\" (\"pouring blood\"). The purpose of tabuh rah is to provide an offering (the blood of the losing chicken) to the evil spirits. Cockfighting is a religious obligation at every Balinese temple festival or religious ceremony. Cockfights without a religious purpose are considered gambling in Indonesia, although it is still largely practiced in many parts of Indonesia. Women are generally not involved in the tabuh rah process. The tabuh rah process is held on the largest pavilion in a Balinese temple complex, the wantilan.\n\nThe American anthropologist Clifford Geertz published his most famous work, \"\", on the practice of cockfights in Bali. In it, he argued that the cockfight served as a pastiche or model of wider Balinese society from which judgments about other aspects of the culture could be drawn.\n\nCockfighting is illegal but widespread in Iraq. The attendees come to gamble or just for the entertainment. A rooster can cost up to $8,000. The most-prized birds are called Harati, which means that they are of Turkish or Indian origin, and have muscular legs and necks.\n\nCockfighting was introduced to Japan from China in the early 8th century and rose to popularity in the Kamakura period and the Edo period.Cockfighting endured in some Japanese regions even after being banned in 1873, during the Meiji period.\n\nCockfighting is a popular sport in rural Pakistan; however, \"betting is illegal under the Prevention of Gambling Act 1977\". Betting is illegal, but police often turn a blind eye towards it. In Sindh (one of 4 major provinces of Pakistan), people are fond of keeping fighting cock breed, known as \"Sindhi aseel\" in Pakistan. These cocks are noted being tall, heavy and good at fighting. Another popular breed is called Mianwali Aseel. In \"Sindh\" Gamblor or Khafti uses Almond and other power enhancing medicines to feed the fighter cocks.\n\nCockfighting, locally termed \"Sabong\", is a popular pastime in the Philippines, where both illegal and legal cockfights occur. Legal cockfights are held in cockpits every week, whilst illegal ones, called \"tupada\" or \"tigbakay\", are held in secluded cockpits where authorities cannot raid them. In both types, knives or \"gaffs\" are used. There are two kinds of knives used in Philippine cockfighting: single-edged blades (used in derbies) and double-edged blades; lengths of knives also vary. All knives are attached on the left leg of the bird, but depending on agreement between owners, blades can be attached on the right or even on both legs. \"Sabong\" and illegal \"tupada\", are judged by a referee called \"sentensyador\" or \"koyme\", whose verdict is final and not subject to any appeal. Bets are usually taken by the \"kristo\", so named because of his outstretched hands when calling out wagers from the audience and skillfully doing so purely from memory.\nThe country has hosted several \"World Slasher Cup\" derbies, held biannually at the Smart Araneta Coliseum, Quezon City, where the world's leading game fowl breeders gather. World Slasher Cup is also known as the \"Olympics of Cockfighting\". The was held in the World Trade Center Metro Manila.\n\nCockfighting was already flourishing in pre-colonial Philippines, as recorded by Antonio Pigafetta, the Italian diarist aboard Ferdinand Magellan’s 1521 expedition. Cockfighting in the Philippines is derived from the fact that it shares elements of Indian and other Southeast Asian cultures, where the jungle fowl (bankivoid) and Oriental type of chicken are endemic.\n\nMale saffron finches and canaries have been used in fights on occasion.\n\nCockfights have been illegal in Costa Rica since 1922. The government deems the activity as animal cruelty, public disorder and a risk for public health and is routinely repressed by the State's National Secretary for Animal Welfare. The activity is also rejected by most of the population as 88% of Costa Ricans dislike cockfights according to recent polls of the National University. Since 2017 the activity is punishable with up to 2 years of prison.\n\nCockfighting was so common during the Cuban colonization by Spain, that there were arenas in every urban and rural town. The first official known document about cockfighting in Cuba dates from 1737. It is a royal decree asking, to the governor of the island, a report about the inconveniences that might cause cockfights \"with the people from land and sea\" and asking for information about rentals of the games. The Spaniard Miguel Tacón, Lieutenant General and governor of the colony, banned cockfighting by a decree dated on October 20, 1835, limiting these spectacles only to holidays.\n\nIn 1844 a decree dictated by the Captain General of the island, , forbade to non-white people the attendance to these shows. During the second half of the 19th century many authorizations were conceded for building arenas, until General , then civilian governor in Havana, prohibited cockfighting by a decree of October 31, 1899, and later the Cuban governor, General Leonard Wood, dictated the military order no. 165 prohibiting cockfights in the whole country since June 1, 1900.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, legality of cockfights suffered several ups and downs.\n\nIn 1909 the then Cuban president , with the intention to gain followers, allowed cockfights once again, and then regulations were agreed for the fights.\n\nUp to beginnings of 1968 cockfights used to be held everywhere in the country, but with the purpose of stopping the bets, the arenas were closed and the fights forbidden by the authorities. In 1980 authorities legalized cockfights again and a state business organization was created with the participation of the private breeders, grouped in territories. Every year the state organization announces several national tournaments from January to April, makes trade shows and sells fighting cocks to clients from other Caribbean countries.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, cockfighting is both legal and very popular. There is at least one arena (\"gallera)\" in every town whereas in bigger cities larger \"coliseos\" can be found. Important fights are broadcast on television and newspapers have dedicated pages to cock fights and the different \"trabas\", the local name for gamefowl breeding grounds. Those dedicated to the breeding and training of fighting cocks are called \"galleros\" or \"traberos\". The cocks are often outfitted with special spurs made from various materials (ranging from plastic to metal or even carey shell) and fights are typically to the death. Public perception of the sport is as normal as that of baseball or any other major sport. \n\nIn the United States, cockfighting is now illegal in all fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia. The last state to implement a state law banning cockfighting was Louisiana; the Louisiana State Legislature voted to approve a ban in June 2007, which went into effect in August 2008.\n\nAs of 2013:\n\nAdditionally, the 2014 farm bill, signed into law by President Obama, contained a provision making it a federal crime to attend an animal fighting event or bring a child under the age of 16 to an animal fighting event. \n\nCockfighting remains legal in the United States territories of Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands. Legislation introduced in Congress (the Parity in Animal Cruelty Enforcement (PACE) Act) would bar animal fighting in the territories, but has not been enacted. In Puerto Rico, cockfighting is popular and is considered a \"national sport\"; according to a National Park Service report, it generates about $100 million annually. There are some 200,000 fighting birds annually on the island. Puerto Rico's Cockfighting Commission regulates 87 clubs, but many non-government sanctioned \"underground\" cockfighting operations exist.\n\nThe Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act, a federal law that made it a federal crime to transfer cockfighting implements across state or national borders and increasing the penalty for violations of federal animal fighting laws to three years in prison became law in 2007. It passed the House of Representatives 368–39 and the Senate by unanimous consent and was signed into law by President George W. Bush.\n\nThe Animal Welfare Act was amended again in 2008 when provisions were included in the 2008 Farm Bill (P.L. 110-246). These provisions tightened prohibitions on dog and other animal fighting activities, and increase penalties for violation of the act.\n\nMajor law enforcement raids against cockfighting occurred in February 2014 in New York State (when 3,000 birds were seized and nine men were charged with felony animal-fighting in \"Operation Angry Birds, the state's largest-ever cockfighting bust) and in May 2017 in California (when the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department seized 7,000 cockfighting birds at a ranch in Val Verde, California, one of the largest cockfighting busts in U.S. history). In 2014, Princess Irina of Romania pleaded guilty in federal court to operating a cockfighting ring in Oregon.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India has banned cockfighting as a violation of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, but it remains popular, especially in the rural coast of Andhra Pradesh, with large amount of betting involved, especially around the festival of Sankranti.\n\nThere is no nationwide ban of cockfighting in the Philippines but since 1948, cockfighting is prohibited every Rizal Day on December 30 where violators can be fined or imprisoned due to the Republic Act No. 229.\n\nIndonesia\n\nAll forms of gambling, including the gambling within secular cockfighting, were made illegal in 1981 by the Indonesian government, while the religious aspects of cockfighting within Balinese Hinduism remain protected. However, secular cockfighting remains widely popular in Bali, despite its illegal status.\n\nCockfighting, and the possession of cockfighting equipment, is illegal in Australia.\n\nHolding cockfights is a crime in France, but there is an exemption under subparagraph 3 of article 521–1 of the French penal code for cockfights and bullfights in locales where an uninterrupted tradition exists for them. Thus, cockfighting is allowed in the Nord-Pas de Calais region, where it takes place in a small number of towns including Raimbeaucourt, La Bistade and other villages around Lille. However, the construction of new cockfighting areas is prohibited, a law upheld by the Constitutional Council of France in 2015.\n\nCockfighting is also legal in some French Overseas Territories.\n\nCockfighting is banned in Spain except in two Spanish regions: the Canary Islands and Andalusia. Spain's Animal Protection Law of 1991 recognizes an exception for these regions based on cultural heritage and a history of cockfighting in the region. Animal rights organizations have sought to ban the bloodsport nationwide, but have not been successful in advancing legislation through the Spanish Parliament.\n\nCockfighting was banned outright in England and Wales and in the British Overseas Territories with the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835. Sixty years later, in 1895, cockfighting was also banned in Scotland, where it had been relatively common in the 18th century. A reconstructed cockpit from Denbigh in North Wales may be found at St Fagans National History Museum in Cardiff and a reference exists in 1774 to a cockpit at Stanecastle in Scotland.\n\nAccording to a 2007 report by the RSPCA, cockfighting in England and Wales was still taking place, but had declined in recent years.\n\nThe act of cockfighting is illegal under the Animal Welfare Act 1999, as is the possession, training and breeding of cocks for fighting.\n\nCockfighting has inspired artists in several fields to create works which depict the activity. Several organizations, including the University of South Carolina, Jacksonville State University in Jacksonville, Alabama, and London football team Tottenham Hotspur F.C. have a gamecock as their mascot. The University of Delaware's mascot, the Blue Hen, was named for a blue strain of American gamecock. The students' section at University of Delaware football games is called the \"Cockpit.\"\n\nCockfighting has also been mentioned in songs such as Kings of Leon's \"Four Kicks\" and Bob Dylan's song \"Cry a While\" from the album \"Love and Theft\". The story song \"El Gallo del Cielo\" by Tom Russell is entirely about cockfighting, and the lyrics utilize detailed imagery of fighting pits, gamecocks, and gambling on the outcome of the fights. Cockfighting has also been in Korean boy band Exo's music video for \"Lotto\".\n\nThe painting \"The Cock Fight\" (1846) an academic exercise of the French painter Jean-Léon Gérôme, \"Vainqueur au combat de coqs\" (1864) bronze statue from the French sculptor Alexandre Falguière and the painting \"Cockfight\" (1882) from the Flemish painter Emile Claus are samples of the presence of cockfighting in visual arts.\n\nThe Expressionist painter Sir Robin Philipson, of Edinburgh, was well known for his series of works that included depictions of cockfighting.\nThe 1930 cartoon \"Mexico\" shows Oswald the Lucky Rabbit challenging a bear in a cockfight. The 1938 cartoon \"Honduras Hurricane\" features the pirate John Silver forcing Captain Katzenjammer into a rigged cockfight. Other cartoon depictions portray humanized roosters treating cockfights like boxing matches; these cartoons include Disney's \"Cock o' the Walk\" (1936), MGM's \"Little Bantamweight\" (1938), and Walter Lantz's \"The Bongo Punch\" (1958).\n\nLive-action films that include scenes of the sport include the 1964 Mexican film \"El Gallo De Oro\", the 1965 film \"The Cincinnati Kid\", and the 1974 film \"Cockfighter\", directed by Monte Hellman (based on the novel of the same name by Charles Willeford).\n\nThe 1990 film \"No Fear, No Die\" centers around two men who are part of an illegal cockfighting ring.\n\nCockfighting is depicted twice in the 2011 film \"The Rum Diary\".\n\nThe Spike TV show \"1000 Ways to Die\" features a death involving a cockfight, where a man who bets on a rooster attaches razors to its claws to ensure its winning, but is slashed to death himself.\n\nIn the \"Seinfeld\" episode \"The Little Jerry\", Kramer enters his rooster into a cockfight in order to get one of Jerry's bounced checks removed from a local bodega where the cockfights actually take place.\n\nIn the HBO series \"Eastbound & Down\", Kenny Powers moves to Mexico and is in the cockfighting business until his cock \"Big Red\" dies.\n\nThe 2011 Tamil film \"Aadukalam\" revolves around the practice of cockfighting in Madurai, Tamil Nadu.\nIn the FX Network's police drama, \"The Shield\" episode titled \"Two Days of Blood\" (season #1, episode #12), Detective Shane Vendrell and Detective Curt Lemansky go undercover in a cockfighting event to track down an illegal arms smuggler.\n\nNathanael West's 1939 novel \"The Day of the Locust\" includes a detailed and graphic cockfighting scene, as does the Alex Haley novel \"\" and the miniseries based on it. In literature, a description of a bordertown cockfight fiesta can be found in \"On the Border: Portraits of America's Southwestern Frontier\". Charles Willeford wrote a novel, \"Cockfighter\", which gives a detailed account of the protagonist's life as a 'cocker'. Abraham Valdelomar's 1918 tale \"El Caballero Carmelo\" depicts a cockfight between the protagonist, a cock named Carmelo, and his rival \"Ajiseco\" from a child's perspective, who considered this bird as an heroic member of his family.\n\nThe term \"human cockfighting\" was used by United States senator John McCain to describe mixed martial arts, which at the time he was campaigning to ban.\n\nThe video game \"\" uses a cockfight as a plot point. With a man having died because of a rooster with a spur had slashed him, but with a twist that he would have survived if his wife had called the police.\nSquare Enix's video game \"Sleeping Dogs\" allows the player character to spectate and bet on various virtual cockfights based around the game's rendition of the city of Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "15164989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164989", "title": "Convention on the Non-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity", "text": "Convention on the Non-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity\n\nThe Convention on the Non-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity was adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession by United Nations General Assembly resolution 2391 (XXIII) of 26 November 1968.\nPursuant to the provisions of its Article VIII (90 days following the deposit of the tenth ratification), it came into force on 11 November 1970.\n\nThe Convention provides that no signatory state may apply statutory limitations to:\n\nAs of January 2015, the Convention has 55 state parties, which includes 54 UN member states and the State of Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "3647508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647508", "title": "Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb", "text": "Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb\n\nThe Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb (), commonly referred to as HNK Zagreb, is a theatre, opera and ballet house located in Zagreb.\n\nThe theatre evolved out of the first city theatre built in 1836 housed in the present-day Old City Hall. The theatre was first established as the \"Croatian National Theatre\" in 1860, and in 1861 it gained government support putting it on par with many other European national theatres. In 1870 an opera company was added to the theatre and in 1895 it moved to the new purpose-built building on Republic of Croatia Square in Zagreb's Lower Town, where it is based today.\n\nAustro-Hungarian emperor Franz Joseph I was at the unveiling of this new building during his visit to the city in 1895.\nThe building itself was the project of famed Viennese architects Ferdinand Fellner and Herman Helmer, whose firm had built several theatres in Vienna. Celebrations marking the 100th anniversary of the building were held on October 14, 1995.\n\nAt the entrance of the theatre is located the wall fountain \"The Source of Life\" (\"Zdenac života\"), designed by Croatian artist and sculptor Ivan Meštrović in 1905.\n\nMany of Croatia's leading artist have worked at the theatre. Its first manager and dramatist was the Greek–Croatian poet Dimitrija Demeter, a leading activist of the Croatian national revival movement, with Ivan Zajc as first conductor. Jakov Gotovac was the Theatre's opera conductor from 1923 to 1958. The famous Croatian theatre director Branko Gavella began his career here, as did the first Croatian prima ballerina Mia Čorak Slavenska.\n\nThe theatre has also seen many international artists including Franz Liszt, Sarah Bernhardt, Franz Lehár, Richard Strauss, Gérard Philipe, Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, Jean-Louis Barrault, Peter Brook, Mario Del Monaco, José Carreras.\n\nThere are also Croatian National Theatres in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Varaždin and Zadar.\n\n"}
{"id": "41818670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41818670", "title": "Daedongyeojido", "text": "Daedongyeojido\n\nDaedongyeojido (also Daedong yeojido, , lit. \"The Great Map of the East Land\") is a large scale map of Korea produced by Joseon dynasty cartographer and geologist Kim Jeong-ho in 1861. A second edition was printed in 1864. One source describes it as the \"oldest map in Korea\". Daedongyeojido is considered very advanced for its time, and marks the zenith of pre-modern Korean cartography.\n\nThe map consists of 22 separate, foldable booklets, each covering approximately (north-south) by (east–west). Combined, they form a map of Korea that is wide and long. The scale of the map is 1:162,000. The map was printed from 70 basswood woodblocks, engraved on both sides. The techniques to create the map have been described as a hybrid of Korean and Western methods.\n\nThe map is praised for precise delineations of mountain ridges, waterways, and transportation routes. It also has markings for settlements, including villages, as well as notable administrative and cultural areas and sites, such as past and present government offices and military sites, public warehouses, government horse ranches, beacon fire mounds, and royal tombs.\n\nSeveral versions of the map exist, with some variations (such as the number of booklets, either 21 or 22). The map was accompanied by a preface explaining the methodology, and a legend, as well as additional statistics, and a separate map for the Korean capital of Seoul.\n\nIn 2008 the map was considered as an image for one of the 100,000-won banknotes, which would have been the highest-denomination South Korean banknote to date. However, the map of Daedongyeojido did not portray the internationally disputed Liancourt Rocks (known as Dokdo islands in Korea), and the ensuing public debate in Korea over whether the map on a banknote should be changed to include them made the image too controversial for such a high-visibility placement. Eventually, the 100,000-won banknote was cancelled due to the controversy stirred by the issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2441518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441518", "title": "Detroit Fashion Week", "text": "Detroit Fashion Week\n\nDetroit Fashion Week is a week-long event that presents Michigan clothing designers and showcases modeling talent in the Metro Detroit region. Founded and produced by Brian Heath in 2005, the garment industry in Detroit observed fashion week from Monday, August 8, 2005 to Saturday, August 13, 2005, with fringe events that were open on Sunday, August 14, 2005, including a trunk show. Almost all events occurred at the 4731 Gallery, named for its street address at 4731 Grand River Avenue. The fourth floor of the 4731 building housed the runway events. Detroit Fashion Week 2007 was held at the Hotel St. Regis. The annual event has been held annually in and around the city of Detroit and has had designers from across the United States as well as models from major agencies and Americas Next Top Model participant Bianca Golden. Produced from Los Angeles, California since 2013. \nDetroit Fashion Week also sponsors two events, one summer and one winter event that involves a fashion show. This fashion show concludes the MAIN( MotorCity Automotive Industry Night) Event awards ceremony for automotive designers. The winter event takes place at Detroit Orchestra Hall and the summer event takes place on the campus of Lawrence Technological Institute. \n"}
{"id": "47765536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47765536", "title": "Die Eroberung von Mexico", "text": "Die Eroberung von Mexico\n\nDie Eroberung von Mexico (\"The Conquest of Mexico\") is an opera in four acts by Wolfgang Rihm, premiered in Hamburg on 9 February 1992.\n\nThe libretto, by the composer, is based on Antonin Artaud's 1932 text, \"La conquête du Mexique\", but also included elements of Artaud's \"Le théâtre de Séraphin\" and of poetry by Octavio Paz (his 1937 poem, \"The Root of Man\"). The work also cites an Aztec poem believed to be from the early 16th century, originally written in Nahuatl. The opera, which Rihm himself refers to as a 'music-drama', centres on the encounter between the invader Cortez and the Aztec ruler Montezuma, which was conceived by Rihm as 'an encounter with the Self'. Montezuma (sung by a soprano) has his words echoed by two other female voices offstage, whilst those of Cortez are echoed by two speaking roles.\n\nCortez arrives in Mexico and determines to conquer it; Montezuma presages disaster.\n\nCortez enters the empty city - he begins to doubt his own reality. Meeting Montezuma, Cortez's attempts at communication break down. He taunts Montezuma's idol worship, whilst Montezuma realizes that the Spaniards are only after gold. La Malinche (danced role), (who was in fact the interpreter between the two), fails to re-establish dialogue.\n\nMontezuma is increasingly mentally disturbed. Cortez produces a screaming man who enters Montezuma's body. In torment, Montezuma delivers a long address in which his two 'alternative' voices and the female choir also join.\n\nMontezuma has died: Cortez dreams before his statue and experiences a dissolution of his own personality. Montezuma's funeral commences and this sparks off the Aztecs and Spaniards to massacre each other (an event which did not take place in history). The male and female choruses chant the ancient Nahuatl poem. When all are dead, the voices of Cortez and Montezuma are heard in duet for the first time, singing the last verse of the poem by Paz.\n\nThe opera has been performed in Cologne, Madrid and Frankfurt, and, in 2015, at the Salzburg Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "12974729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12974729", "title": "Eskatrol", "text": "Eskatrol\n\nEskatrol was an amphetamine weight loss agent which was removed by the U.S. \nFood and Drug Administration in 1981 after its manufacturer,\nSmithKline & French, was unable to prove the drug's effectiveness. At the time it was among the 200 most widely prescribed drugs in the United States. Another was Dexamyl tablets. Eskatrol contained dextroamphetamine sulfate and prochlorperazine.\n\nIn August 1970 the F.D.A. sought to limit the use of stimulants by calling for changes in labeling which decreased the number of allowable claims and intensified the warnings about possible hazards. F.D.A. Commissioner,\nCharles C. Edwards, criticized the drug industry for not helping to prevent the abuse of amphetamines. Thomas M. Rauch, president of SmithKline & French laboratories, responded that his company had long promoted stricter drug abuse legislation and tighter controls\non production and distribution. SmithKline & French also made Dexedrine and Benzedrine. The F.D.A. began to restrict amphetamine manufacturer claims to only three medical uses, two of them uncommon. The two rare conditions specified were narcolepsy\nand hyperactivity. The third permitted use was for suppressing appetite among persons who needed to lose weight. However, this would only be allowed for a total of a few weeks, and as a part of\ntreatment for obesity.\n\n"}
{"id": "588308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588308", "title": "Faxlore", "text": "Faxlore\n\nFaxlore is a sort of folklore: humorous texts, folk poetry, folk art, and urban legends that are circulated, not by word of mouth, but by fax machine. Xeroxlore or photocopylore is similar material circulated by photocopying; compare samizdat in Soviet-bloc countries.\n\nThe first use of the term xeroxlore was in Michael J. Preston's essay \"Xerox-lore\", 1974. \"Photocopylore\" is perhaps the most frequently encountered name for the phenomenon now, because of trademark concerns involving the Xerox Corporation. The first use of this term came in \"A Dictionary of English Folklore\" by Jacqueline Simpson and Steve Roud.\n\nSome faxlore is relatively harmless. Cartoons and jokes often circulate as faxlore, the poor graphic quality becoming worse with each new person who resends the joke to the next recipient. Because faxlore and xeroxlore is the (mis)appropriation of technology owned by the employer, much humorous faxlore is mildly subversive of the workplace and its values. Like email and chain letters, office technology has given new life to various forms of practical jokes, urban legends, and folklore. The items are often office-related, such as spoof agenda for meetings, spurious descriptions of ridiculous training programs that all staff will allegedly be required to attend, and so on. Names may be whited out and replaced with someone in the office, making it a joke on a particular person, or details may be altered making an item more topical.\n\nThe semi-traditional lists of reasons \"why a cucumber is better than a man\" or \"why a beer is better than a woman\" often circulate as faxlore, as has the well known mock German variations of the \"Blinkenlights\" poster. Another commonly circulated text contains ethnic humor; a typical version goes:\n\nMaterials of this sort have existed from the beginnings of duplicating technologies. World War II era blueprints exist of drawings of female nudes with their body parts labeled as if they were the parts of airplanes. With the widespread adoption of photocopying, amateur duplication of this sort of material became available to a much larger social base. Cartoons and other amateur materials were distributed in the workplace, usually in violation of managerial restrictions on the use of office supplies, and often in disregard of copyright law.\n\nLater, during the early 1990s, the widespread adoption of telecopiers made it possible to duplicate these materials remotely. The use of a fax machine to duplicate these materials also changed the emphases of their subjects; various alarms and urban legends were propagated to distant readers over the telephone lines. This use of fax has been somewhat supplanted by email as that technology became more widely used and embedded in the culture; the sort of urban legends that once circulated by fax are now likely to appear as email hoaxes. Specific computer related alarms are the subject of virus hoaxes; email makes forwarding of texts relatively easy, and the frightening nature of the revelation makes it seem important to pass along, despite any doubts the sender might have.\n\nOther sorts of faxlore have had more serious consequences. A number of more notorious urban legends have circulated in faxlore. The notorious \"Blue Star Acid\" hoax is one well known example.\n\nThe \"lights out\" hoax, which claimed that people who were driving in the dark with their headlights out might be gang members, and that those who flashed their headlights at these drivers might be marked for murder as part of a gang initiation, was another hoax that was widely circulated as faxlore. The poor graphic quality of the frequently re-sent faxes, which often were made out to appear to have originated with the police department of a distant city, only made these hoaxes seem more credible.\n\nIn the United States, collections of supposedly sinister symbols have been circulated among school administrators and police departments; in the 1980s these symbols were frequently alleged to be \"Satanic symbols\", and in the 1990s they were alleged to be \"gang symbols\". Political or religious symbols, like the peace symbol, the Star of David, the Rosary, the ankh, or the pentagram were mingled with other cryptic or fanciful symbols in these faxed and recirculated sheets, and the entire collection was condemned.\n\nOn the authority of these anonymous, hard to trace, and impossible to cross-examine sources, school administrators sometimes acted to ban the wearing of Stars of David and similar symbols of minority religions. Typically, no compiler or author is given for the collection of symbols, though frightening descriptions are often given about their \"secret meaning.\" A number of civil liberties lawsuits were filed over actions taken by school administrators who took these anonymous sources seriously.\n\nA similar claim that the Procter & Gamble logo was a \"satanic symbol\" was linked in the 1980s to the activity of several Amway distributors, Amway being one of Procter & Gamble's competitors; the hoax was spread by fax, photocopier, and later by voice mail and email. Another occasional hoax claims that clothing and memorabilia of various universities or sports teams are \"gang symbols\".\n\nWith the rise of the Internet, media such as World Wide Web, email, instant messaging, and social networking sites are now available to quickly and widely spread the sort of material that formerly circulated as faxlore. The hoax warnings of things such as dire and terrible computer viruses that still occasionally circulate, carry on one tradition of the bogus cautionary tale that used to circulate as faxlore.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12219431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219431", "title": "Festival of Fantastic Films", "text": "Festival of Fantastic Films\n\nThe Festival of Fantastic Films is an annual non-profit celebration of \"cinema fantastique\", held annually in central Manchester, England. It was created by Tony Edwards and the late Harry Nadler (both members of the Delta Film Group, an amateur film-making society active in the 1960s and both past organisers of an Eastercon), together with their fellow enthusiast Gil Lane-Young.\n\nPast guests have included: the producer Tony Tenser; the producer/director Roger Corman; directors Robert Fuest, Val Guest, Robin Hardy, Jorge Grau; actors Andrew Keir, Robin Askwith, David Warbeck, Ken Foree, David Hess, Norman Rossington; actresses Caroline Munro, Barbara Shelley, Anne Robinson, Catriona MacColl, Ingrid Pitt.\n\nTwo prizes are presented each year: for the best amateur film screened (see entry for the Delta Film Award) and the best independent entry.\n\nThe 19th Festival of Fantastic Films was held on 17–19 October 2008 with Jess Conrad and Lamberto Bava among the guests appearing.\n\nThe 20th Festival was held on the 16–18 October 2009 with Emily Booth, John Carson, Jenny Hanley, John Hough, Ian McCulloch, Derren Nesbitt and Peter Sasdy appearing. The winner of the best Independent Feature film at the 20th International Festival was \"Kirk\", a community project film by the Strathendrick Film Society, directed by Michael Ferns and produced by Joan Macpherson.\n\nThe Festival continues to be held every year; the 28th event in the series is planned for October 2017 in Manchester.\n\n"}
{"id": "26213414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26213414", "title": "Forumwarz", "text": "Forumwarz\n\nForumwarz is a multiplayer browser-based role-playing game that is a parody of Internet culture designed by Crotch Zombie Productions, a Toronto-based company run by Robin Ward, Mike Drach, and Jason Kogan. Written in the Ruby on Rails web application framework using the Haml markup language, the game launched on February 7, 2008. In the first month since the game launched, around 30,000 users signed up.\n\nForumwarz is notable for its humorous and sometimes ribald writing and references to Internet memes. Described as an \"internet meta-game\", it has been featured in both \"Wired News\" and \"DigitalJournal.com\", and was described by Gawker.com as \"stupid, insulting, and really damn clever\". To ensure new players are aware of the potentially - and deliberately - offensive content of the game, players must confirm that they are \"not offended easily\" before they can begin playing. In August 2008, a second episode of the game was in preparation prior to release; it was released in Beta to a small number of players in mid-September. Episode 2 is the continuation of Episode 1. Crotch Zombie released Episode 2 on October 15, 2008. Prior to its release they provided sneak peeks and spoilers of Episode 2 content, while also reaching out to users to provide in-game content. Closed beta began on September 15, inviting contributors of Episode 2 to help test out the content. On January 20, 2010, Forumwarz released its third episode. As of January, 2017 the game had over 250,000 accounts.\n\nUnlike many traditional role-playing games (RPGs), Forumwarz takes place on a fake, parodic version of the Internet. The primary battlegrounds are in the form of virtual internet forums, as opposed to the fantasy settings found in traditional RPGs. Parody themes include furries, script kiddies, Boing Boing, Apple Computer, ricers, 4chan, Ron Paul, Fark, gamers, Bill O'Reilly, Otaku, Cory Doctorow, and the Church of Scientology.\n\nThe player begins as a bored Internet user, searching on a parodied search engine (a thinly veiled analogue of Google). Soon their search query is interrupted by an instant message from \"Shallow Esophagus\", a mysterious non-player character and possible parody of Deep Throat who introduces them to the concept of \"pwnage\".\n\nThe player soon begins \"pwning\", or attacking, forums through various trolling methods. Following the first mission, one of four character classes can be chosen — \"Emo Kid\", \"Troll\", \"Camwhore\", or \"Hacker\". The player may also choose to stay as a \"Re-Re\", and later select the \"Permanoob\" class. The archetypes were chosen as the most \"narcissistic and crude web forum stereotypes\". As forums become increasingly difficult to pwn, characters earn experience points in the form of \"cred\", thus improving their statistics.\n\nForumwarz takes place on a parodic version of the Internet, and the interface reflects this with an Instant Messaging client, online shopping for virtual items and services, and Internet forum battlegrounds. The Instant Messaging Client is called sTalk, a pun on \"stalk\", and a parody of Google's IM client gTalk.\n\nThe combat system is turn-based, and the player is given a set number of forum visits per day that they use to improve their character and proceed through the storyline. The player may attack virtual forums, each based on a different theme, with various attacks suited to their character class. Attacks consist of posting varying obnoxious comments and trolling, via an array of attacks specific to the user class including \"self-mutilation\" (Emo Kids), \"threaten to contact authorities\" (Camwhores), \"ASCII art attacks\" (Trolls), \"font changing\" (Hacker) and Tech support (Permanoob).\n\nWhile attacking, the virtual inhabitants of the forum will respond and retaliate, causing the player damage. The hit points used in most RPGs are replaced with \"ego\" in Forumwarz - if a player's ego is reduced to zero, the player is defeated. Players can restore their ego using the game's version of health boosts - anti-depressants. For each thread in a forum that is successfully \"pwned,\" or derailed through persistent attacking, the player gains \"Cred\" and will be sent gifts from random Internet users as a reward the following day.\n\nSide quests include a very brief text adventure game loosely based on the urban opera \"Trapped in the Closet,\" featuring R. Kelly as well as a second, much longer text adventure unlocked in Episode 2.\n\nPlayers have the opportunity to purchase \"Brownie Points\" using their own (real) money. Brownie Points are used to buy Episode 2 and 3. Brownie Points can be used to buy \"illegal game enhancements\" that allow for accelerated progress through the game by giving the player many more forum visits than the standard 4 per day, an attack that instantly defeats forums, or large amounts of in-game currency. However, buying these enhancements will exclude the player from competitive aspects of the game unless he purchases an \"un-cheat\", which removes all in-game items and currency, so that no competitive advantage can be gained by \"cheating\".\nThe \"Brownie points\" can also be used to buy custom avatars or forum nicknames, for themselves or other players.\n\nPlayers are able to contribute to their own forums using forumbuildr v2.0 Beta, an in-game application named after Web 2.0 jargon. Each week, players vote on a topic to collectively build. Once a topic is chosen, players submit and vote on its components, including the content, logo and style sheet. At the end of the week, the forum is published and can be played by users.\n\nIn March 2009, itembuildr was introduced, which, in a similar style to forumbuildr, allows players to contribute item descriptions and images which are then added to the game in the form of purchasable items.\n\nPlayers also have the choice to interact in the multiplayer aspects of the game. This may be co-operatively, such as players joining together in klans, to work together in Domination raids, or just use is as a place to interact with others aside from Flamebate (the standard forums).\nOn the other hand, players may compete against each other, in several mini-games, such as the above-mentioned Domination, in which players earn scoops and Medals as a result. Players can also compete in INCIT, in which a random picture taken from Flickr is shown, and a motivational poster must be created, with a title and motivational text related to the picture. Players then vote which of the posters is the most amusing, the poster capturing the most votes being the winner. Another multiplayer feature is Kyoubai, an in-game auction house launched on January 16, 2009, in which players can bid on items for sale from other players. The mascot of Kyoubai is BidSquid, a cartoon squid with a cowboy hat and gavel. BidSquid was designed by Dooomcat Studios, who also did the class portraits and designed the homepage.\n\nForumwarz was written using tools including Ruby on Rails, MySQL, Haml, memcached, script.aculo.us and the Prototype Javascript Framework and Phusion Passenger behind Nginx. Despite the approximately 5 million dynamic requests a day (varying from 55 to 75 requests per second depending on the time of day) and 25Gb of data transfer, Crotch Zombie uses a single 3 GHz Xeon server (due to the small size of the requests).\n\nOne of the elements used in the creation of Forumwarz was the creation of a machine translation tool, called Unintelligencer. The tool translates standard written text into \"unintelligent\", mimicking \"a literate person's text into something that wouldn't look out of place on a YouTube comment\". The tool was one of the elements used by the Forumwarz creators to create unique personalities for the artificial denizens of its simulated forums.\n\n"}
{"id": "2276218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276218", "title": "Fraudulent conveyance", "text": "Fraudulent conveyance\n\nA fraudulent conveyance, or fraudulent transfer, is an attempt to avoid debt by transferring money to another person or company. It is generally a civil, not a criminal matter, meaning that one cannot go to jail for it, but in some jurisdictions there is potential for criminal prosecution. It is generally treated as a civil cause of action that arises in debtor/creditor relations, particularly with reference to insolvent debtors. The cause of action is typically brought by creditors or by bankruptcy trustees. \n\nA transfer will be fraudulent if made with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor. Thus, if a transfer is made with the specific intent to avoid satisfying a specific liability, then actual intent is present. However, when a debtor prefers to pay one creditor instead of another, that is not a fraudulent transfer.\n\nThere are two types of fraudulent transfer—\"actual fraud\" and \"constructive fraud\". \"Actual fraud\" typically involves a debtor who as part of an asset protection scheme donates his assets, usually to an \"insider\", and leaves himself nothing to pay his creditors. \"Constructive fraud\" does not relate to fraudulent intent, but rather to the underlying economics of the transaction, if it took place for less than reasonably equivalent value at a time when the debtor was in a distressed financial condition. It is important to note that the actual distinction between the two different types of fraud is what the intentions of the debtor were. For example, where the debtor has simply been more generous than they should have or, in business transactions, the business should have ceased trading earlier to preserve capital (see generally, \"wrongful trading\"). In a successful lawsuit, the plaintiff is entitled to recover the property transferred or its value from the transferee who has received a gift of the debtor's assets. Subsequent transferees may also be targeted, although they generally have stronger defenses than immediate transferees.\n\nAlthough fraudulent transfer law originally evolved in the context of a relatively simple agrarian economy, it is now widely used to challenge complex modern financial transactions such as leveraged buyouts.\n\nFraudulent transfer liability will often turn on the financial condition of the debtor at a particular point in the past. This analysis has historically required \"dueling\" expert testimony from both plaintiffs and defendants, which often led to an expensive process and inconsistent and unpredictable results. Courts and scholars have recently developed market-based approaches to try to make this analysis simpler, more consistent across cases, and more predictable.\n\nEvidence of actual intent is rarely available to a creditor for it would require proof of someone’s inner thoughts. Because of that, creditors often have to rely on circumstantial evidence of fraud. To prove actual intent, the courts have developed “badges of fraud,” which, while not conclusive, are considered by the courts as circumstantial evidence of fraud:\n\n\nUnder Australian law, if a transaction is entered into by a company which subsequently goes into liquidation, and the transaction was entered into by the company for the purpose of defeating, delaying or interfering with the rights of creditors during the 10 years prior to the relation back day, the courts may set it aside. The relation-back day is defined as either the day upon which the application for the company's winding-up was filed, or the date of the commencement of liquidation.\n\n\nIn Anglo-American law, the doctrine of Fraudulent Conveyance traces its origins back to \"Twyne's Case\", in which an English farmer attempted to defraud his creditors by selling his sheep to a man named Twyne, while remaining in possession of the sheep, marking and shearing them. In the United States, fraudulent conveyances or transfers are governed by two sets of laws that are generally consistent. The first is the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (\"UFTA\") that has been adopted by all but a handful of the states. The second is found in the federal Bankruptcy Code.\n\nThe UFTA and the Bankruptcy Code both provide that a transfer made by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor if the debtor made the transfer with the \"actual intention to hinder, delay or defraud\" any creditor of the debtor.\n\nThere are two kinds of fraudulent transfer. The archetypal example is the intentional fraudulent transfer. This is a transfer of property made by a debtor with intent to defraud, hinder, or delay his or her creditors. The second is a constructive fraudulent transfer. Generally, this occurs when a debtor transfers property without receiving \"reasonably equivalent value\" in exchange for the transfer if the debtor is insolvent at the time of the transfer or becomes insolvent or is left with unreasonably small capital to continue in business as a result of the transfer. Unlike the intentional fraudulent transfer, no intention to defraud is necessary.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Code authorizes a bankruptcy trustee to recover the property transferred fraudulently for the benefit of all of the creditors of the debtor if the transfer took place within the relevant time frame. The transfer may also be recovered by a bankruptcy trustee under the UFTA too, if the state in which the transfer took place has adopted it and the transfer took place within its relevant time period. Creditors may also pursue remedies under the UFTA without the necessity of a bankruptcy.\nBecause this second type of transfer does not necessarily involve any actual wrongdoing, it is a common trap into which honest, but unwary debtors fall when filing a bankruptcy petition without an attorney. Particularly devastating and not uncommon is the situation in which an adult child takes title to the parents' home as a self-help probate measure (in order to avoid any confusion about who owns the home when the parents die and to avoid losing the home to a perceived threat from the state). Later, when the parents file a bankruptcy petition without recognizing the problem, they are unable to exempt the home from administration by the trustee. Unless they are able to pay the trustee an amount equal to the greater of the equity in the home or the sum of their debts (either directly to the Chapter 7 trustee or in payments to a Chapter 13 trustee), the trustee will sell their home to pay the creditors. In many cases, the parents would have been able to exempt the home and carry it safely through a bankruptcy if they had retained title or had recovered title before filing.\n\nEven \"good faith purchasers\" of property who are the recipients of fraudulent transfers are only partially protected by the law in the U.S. Under the Bankruptcy Code, they get to keep the transfer to the extent of the value they gave for it, which means that they may lose much of the benefit of their bargain, even though they have no knowledge that the transfer to them is fraudulent.\n\nOften fraudulent transfers occur in connection with leveraged buyouts (LBOs), where the management/owners of a failing corporation will cause the corporation to borrow on its assets and use the loan proceeds to purchase the management/owner's stock at highly inflated prices. The creditors of the corporation will then often have little or no unencumbered assets left upon which to collect their debts. LBOs can be either intentional or constructive fraudulent transfers, or both, depending on how obviously the corporation is financially impaired when the transaction is completed.\n\nAlthough not all LBOs are fraudulent transfers, a red flag is raised when, after an LBO, the company then cannot pay its creditors.\n\nFraudulent transfer liability will often turn on the financial condition of the debtor at a particular point in the past. This analysis has historically required \"dueling\" expert testimony from both plaintiffs and defendants, which often led to an expensive process and inconsistent and unpredictable results. U.S. courts and scholars have recently developed market-based approaches to try to streamline the analysis of constructive fraud, and judges are increasingly focusing on these market based measures.\n\nUnder Swiss law, creditors who hold a certificate of unpaid debts against the debtor, or creditors in a bankruptcy, may file suit against third parties who have benefited from unfair preferences or fraudulent transfers by the debtor prior to a seizure of assets or a bankruptcy.\n\nFraudulent conveyance or also known as action revocatoire or Pauline action (채권자취소권) is a right to preserve the debtor's property for all creditors by canceling an action by the debtor which reduces the debtor's property with a knowledge that the action harms the rights of the creditor. To exercise this right, the creditor must have a right against the debtor which is monetary and not unique and personal in nature. For instance, the right to demand to clear of the land of the building or the right to delivery the land involves land and unique and therefore not subject to Pauline action(Korean Supreme Court Decision February 10, 1995, 94da2534).\n\n"}
{"id": "2270964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2270964", "title": "Herald Sun Tour", "text": "Herald Sun Tour\n\nThe Herald Sun Tour is an Australian professional bicycle race held in Melbourne and provincial Victoria, sanctioned by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI). The first tour was held in October 1952 as a six-day event. It is now held annually over five days in February. It is named after the \"Herald Sun\", Melbourne's only daily tabloid newspaper. It was originally known as the Sun Tour after \"The Sun News-Pictorial\", and changed its name when \"The Sun News-Pictorial\" merged with \"The Herald\" in 1990.\n\nIn 1952 the first general classification winner was Keith Rowley, a Maffra sheep farmer, in a time of 42 h 57 min 55 s. The first King of the Mountain and Sprint champion was Jack (John) McDonough from Coburg.\n\nAustralian cyclists dominated the first 30 editions of the race, before its status rose and began attracting overseas stars. By the year 2000, the race had shifted to October and Australia's cyclists racing in Europe began to compete in the race. The resulting rise in the event's standard saw the race become rated by the UCI for the first time in 2005.\nSeveral notable Australian cyclists have won the General classification including Stuart O'Grady in 2008, Baden Cooke in 2002, Neil Stephens in 1986, and Russell Mockridge in 1957.\n\nThe 2004 race was conducted from 14 to 24 October 2004 and involved 85 cyclists in seventeen teams of five. Thirteen stages were completed with a total distance of 1110.7 km, 119 intermediate sprints and 37 hill climbs, including the two category one climbs of Mount Baw Baw and in the Otway Ranges. Swedish rider Jonas Ljungblad won the General classification in the time of 26 h 39 min 55 s. Karl Menzies won the sprint classification and Phillip Thuaux won the Mountains classification.\n\nAfter the 2009 race, the organisers of the Herald Sun Tour proposed moving the race from its traditional October date to February, with no edition in 2010. Cycling Australia approved the move, but in the face of opposition from the UCI, the plans never came to fruition. In the end, the 2010 race was \"held over\" due to the 2010 UCI Road World Championships being held in Geelong and Melbourne, and the race returned to the calendar in October 2011. The UCI accepted a change of date the following year, with a January 2013 date instead of October 2012, but downgraded the race from 2.1 to a National Event, preventing most professional teams from across the world from taking part.\n\nThe next edition of the Tour was held from 5–9 February 2014, and regained a UCI 2.1 ranking, permitting top level trade teams to again compete. Due to numerous bushfires across Victoria the last stage of the race was cancelled, with rider Simon Clarke declared the winner.\n\nThe 63rd edition of the Tour got a huge profile boost when reigning Tour de France champion Chris Froome of confirmed he would be starting his 2016 season at the event, having previously participated in 2008 with the Barloworld team where he finished 4th overall. Froome won the overall title on the final stage on Arthurs Seat, making him the first defending Tour de France champion to win the race, with teammate Peter Kennaugh finishing second. He also took the mountains classification.\n\nThe 64th edition of the race was won by Damien Howson of .\n\nThe 65th edition of the Herald Sun Tour was won by Esteban Chaves of the World Tour ranked team. Michelton Scott dominated the general classification of the 2018 edition with team mates Cameron Meyer (2nd) and previous winner Damien Howson (3rd) rounding out the final podium.\n\n"}
{"id": "167799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167799", "title": "Irish Famine (1740–41)", "text": "Irish Famine (1740–41)\n\nThe Irish Famine of 1740–1741 (, meaning the Year of Slaughter) in the Kingdom of Ireland, is estimated to have killed between 13% and 20% of the 1740 population of 2.4 million people, which was a proportionately greater loss than during the Great Famine of 1845–1852.\n\nThe famine of 1740–41 was due to extremely cold and then rainy weather in successive years, resulting in food losses in three categories: a series of poor grain harvests, a shortage of milk, and frost damage to potatoes. At this time, grains, particularly oats, were more important than potatoes as staples in the diet of most workers.\n\nDeaths from mass starvation in 1740–41 were compounded by an outbreak of fatal diseases. The cold and its effects extended across Europe, but mortality was higher in Ireland because both grain and potatoes failed. This is now considered by scholars to be the last serious cold period at the end of the Little Ice Age of about 1400–1800.\n\nBy the mid-19th century's better-known Great Famine of 1845–1852, potatoes made up a greater portion of the Irish diets, with adverse consequences when the crops failed. This famine differed by \"cause, scale and timing:\" it was caused by an oomycete infection which destroyed much of the potato crop for several years running. The crisis was exacerbated by insufficient relief and extreme government regulations.\n\nIn 1740, Ireland had a population of 2.4 million people, most of whom depended on grains (oats, wheat, barley and rye) and potatoes as their staple foods. Half their expenses for food went for grain, 35% for animal products and the remainder for potatoes. Some survived only on oatmeal, buttermilk and potatoes. Over a year, daily consumption of potatoes was estimated at per person. Diets varied according to village locations and individual income, with many people supplementing these staples with river, lake or sea fish, especially herring, and small game such as wild duck. At the time social welfare was an entirely private initiative undertaken on a local level by the village or parish, with the government not being orientated for large-scale relief efforts.\nAn extraordinary climatic shock, known as the \"Great Frost\", struck Ireland and the rest of Europe between December 1739 and September 1741 following a decade of relatively mild winters. Its cause remains unknown. Charting its course sharply illuminates how climate events can result in famine and epidemic disease, and affect economies, energy sources, and politics.\n\nAlthough no barometric or temperature readings for Ireland survive from the Great Frost, a scattered few records survive from Englishmen who made personal readings. The mercury thermometer was invented 25 years earlier by the German pioneer Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit. Indoor values during January 1740 were as low as . The one outdoor reading that has survived was stated as \"thirty-two degrees of frost.\" This did not include the effects of the wind chill factor, which would have been severe. This kind of weather was \"quite outside the Irish experience,\" notes David Dickson, author of \"Arctic Ireland: The Extraordinary Story of the Great Frost and Forgotten Famine of 1740–41\".\n\nIn the period before the crisis in January 1740, the winds and terrible cold intensified, yet barely any snow fell. Ireland was locked into a stable and vast high-pressure system which affected most of Europe in a broadly similar way, from Scandinavia and Russia to northern Italy. Rivers, lakes, and waterfalls froze and fish died in these first weeks of the Great Frost. People tried to avoid hypothermia without using up winter fuel reserves in a matter of days. People who lived in the country were probably better off than city dwellers, because in Ireland, country people had cabins sheltered by turf stacks, while the latter, especially the poor, dwelt in freezing basements and garrets.\n\nCoal dealers and shippers during normal times ferried coal from Cumbria and south Wales to east and south-coast ports in Ireland, but the ice-bound quays and frozen coal yards temporarily stopped such trade. When in late January 1740 the traffic across the Irish Sea resumed, retail prices for coal soared. Desperate people stripped bare hedges, ornamental trees, and nurseries around Dublin to obtain substitute fuel. Also affected by the Frost were the pre-industrial town mill-wheels, which froze. The machinery was stilled that customarily ground wheat for the bakers, tucked cloth for the weavers, and pulped rags for the printers. The abrupt weather change disrupted craft employment and food processing.\n\nThe municipal leaders (mostly Protestant merchants and members of the landed gentry), however, paid closer attention to the state of urban and rural artisans and tradespeople because of their contributions to the commercial economy on which the landowners depended. These leaders knew from experience that \"an unemployed or hungry town often became a sickly town and such sickness might be no respecter of class or wealth.\" This is what happened as the Frost continued.\n\nThe propertied classes began to respond to fuel and food shortages when the Frost was about two weeks old. The Church of Ireland parish clergy solicited donations, which they converted into free rations in the city parishes, distributing nearly 80 tons of coal and ten tons of meal four weeks into the Frost. The Lord Lieutenant, the Duke of Devonshire, in an unprecedented move on 19 January 1740, prohibited export of grain out of Ireland to any destination except Britain. This action was in response to Cork Corporation (City of Cork), which remembered vividly the city events of eleven years earlier when serious food riots erupted and four people died.\n\nIn Celbridge, County Kildare, Katherine, the widow of William Conolly, commissioned construction of the Conolly Folly in 1740 to give employment to local workers. In 1743, she had The Wonderful Barn built nearby as a food store in case of further famines.\n\nThe Great Frost affected the potato, which was one of the two main staples (the other was oatmeal) in rural Ireland. Potatoes typically were left in storage in gardens and in special storage in fields. The crops from the autumn of 1739 were frozen, destroyed, and inedible. They could not even serve as seed for the next growing season. \"Richard Purcell, one of the best rural witnesses of the unfolding crisis, reported in late February [1740] that had the Frost not occurred, there would have been enough potatoes in his district to have kept the country [Ireland] fed until August [1740], indicating a rare local abundance of the crop. 'But both root and branch…is destroyed every where', except for 'a few which happen'd to be housed', and 'in a very few deep…and turfy moulded gardens where some, perhaps enough for seed for the same ground, are sound.'\"\n\nAt that time, potatoes were typically stored in the fields where they were grown, in earthen banks known as potato clamps. They were put among layers of soil and straw that normally prevented frost from penetrating deeply enough to destroy the contents of the clamp. This disruption of the agricultural cycle created problems in Ireland in the winter of 1740–1741.\n\nIn spring 1740, the expected rains did not arrive. Although the Frost dissipated, the temperatures remained low and the northerly winds fierce. The drought killed off animals in the field, particularly sheep in Connacht and black cattle in the south.\n\nBy the end of April, it destroyed much of the tillage crops (wheat and barley) sown the previous autumn, and grains were more important in the diet than were potatoes. The important corn crop also failed, which resulted in greater mortality in Ireland than in Britain or the Continent.\n\nGrains were so scarce that the Irish hierarchy of the Catholic Church allowed Catholics to eat meat four days each week during Lent, but not everyone could afford meat, either. The potato crisis caused an increase in grain prices, resulting in smaller and smaller loaves of bread for the old price. Dickson explains that the \"wholesale rise in the price of wheat, oats and barley reflected not just the current supply position, but the dealers' assessment as to the state of things later in the year.\"\n\nBy summer 1740, the Frost had decimated the potatoes, and the drought had decimated the grain harvest and herds of cattle and sheep. Starving rural dwellers started a \"mass vagrancy\" towards the better-supplied towns, such as Cork in southern Ireland. By mid-June 1740, beggars lined the streets.\n\nWith the soaring cost of food, hungry townspeople \"vented their frustration on grain dealers, meal-mongers and bakers, and when they turned to direct action the most likely flashpoints were markets or warehouses\" where food owners stored bulk food. The first \"flareup\" occurred at Drogheda, north of Dublin on the east coast of Ireland, in mid-April. A band of citizens boarded a vessel laden with oatmeal, which was preparing to depart for Scotland. They removed the rudder and sails. The Drogheda officials made sure that Scotland would receive no more food from their port. They, like the Cork Corporation officials, wanted no trouble from the Irish citizens.\n\nA riot broke out in Dublin on Saturday and Sunday near the end of May 1740 when the populace believed that bakers were holding off baking bread. They broke into the bakers' shops and sold some of the loaves, giving the money to the bakers. Other people simply took the bread and left. On Monday, rioters raided to take the meal from mills near the city and resold it at discounted prices. Trying to restore order, troops from the Royal Barracks killed several rioters. City officials tried to \"smoke out hoarders of grain and to police food markets, but prices remained stubbornly high throughout the summer.\"\n\nSimilar skirmishes over food continued in different Irish cities throughout the summer of 1740. The War of the Austrian Succession (1740-48) began, interrupting trade as Spanish privateers captured ships bound for Ireland, including those carrying grain. Linen, salted beef and pickled butter were Ireland's chief export earners, and the war endangered this trade as well.\n\nIn autumn 1740, a meagre harvest commenced and prices in the towns started to fall. Cattle began to recover. But in the dairying districts, cows had been so weak after the Frost that at least a third of them had failed to \"take bull,\" or become impregnated at breeding. This resulted in fewer calves, a shortage of milk, which was widely consumed, and a decline in butter production.\n\nTo make conditions worse, blizzards swept along the east coast in late October 1740 depositing snow and returned several times in November. A massive rain downpour on 9 December 1740 caused widespread flooding. A day after the floods, the temperature plummeted, snow fell, and rivers and other bodies of water froze. Warm temperatures followed the cold snap, which lasted about ten days. Great chunks of ice careened down the Liffey River through the heart of Dublin, overturning light vessels and causing larger vessels to break anchor.\n\nThe strange autumn of 1740 pushed food prices back up, e.g., Dublin wheat prices on 20 December were at an all-time high. The widening wars in mid-December 1740 encouraged people with stored food to hold onto it. The populace needed food, and riots erupted again in various cities throughout the country. By December 1740, signs were growing that full-blown famine and epidemic were upon the citizens of Ireland.\n\nThe Lord Mayor of Dublin, Samuel Cooke, consulted with the Lords Justices- Archbishop Boulter, Henry Boyle, Speaker of the Commons and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, Lord Jocelyn- on 15 December 1740 to figure out a way to bring down the price of corn. Boulter launched an emergency feeding program for the poor of Dublin at his own expense. The Privy Council instructed the High Sheriff in each county to count all stocks of grain in the possession of farmers and merchants and to report total cereal stocks in their county.\n\nThe reports indicated a number of privately held stocks, for instance County Louth held over 85,000 barrels of grain, mainly oats, owned by some 1,655 farmers. Some major landowners, such as the widow of Speaker William Conolly, builder of Castletown House, distributed food and cash during the \"black spring\" of 1741 on their own initiative . The widow Conolly and other philanthropists hired workers to develop infrastructure or do work associated with local improvements: such as building an obelisk, paving, fencing, draining, making roads or canals, and cleaning harbours. In Drogheda the Chief Justice of the Irish Common Pleas, Henry Singleton, a citizen of the town, donated much of his private fortune for famine relief.\n\nFive vessels loaded with grain, presumably from America, reached Galway on the west coast in June 1741. In the first week of July 1741, grain prices at last decreased and old hoarded wheat suddenly flooded the market. The quality of the Autumn harvest of 1741 was mixed. The food crisis was over, however, and seasons of rare plenty followed for the next two years.\n\nDocumentation of deaths was poor during the Great Frost. Cemeteries provide fragmentary information, e.g., during February and March 1740, 47 children were buried in St. Catherine's parish. The normal death rate tripled in January and February 1740, and burials averaged out about 50% higher during the twenty-one-month crisis than for the years 1737–1739, according to Dickson. Summing up all his sources, Dickson suggests that the famine resulted in the deaths of between 13–20% of the population.\n\nBased on contemporary accounts and burial parish records, famine-related deaths may have totaled 300,000-480,000 in Ireland, with rates highest in the south and east of the country. This was a proportionately greater toll than during the Great Famine (1845–49). That famine, however, was unique in \"cause, scale and timing,\" persisting over several years.\n\nThe majority of the deaths occurred among the lower classes, with the poorest third of the population gaining all their nutrition from potatoes alone, the crop which the blight affected. Therefore, when the potatoes blight occurred these people were left with practically no means of sustenance.\n\nThe Irish Great Frost of 1740–1741 demonstrated human social behaviour under crisis conditions, and the far-reaching effects of a major climate crisis. As conditions eased, \"the population entered into a period of unprecedented growth,\" although additional famines occurred during the eighteenth century. Dickson notes that an upsurge in migration out of Ireland in the years after the 1740–1741 crisis did not take place, perhaps in part because conditions improved relatively quickly although the most likely primary reason was that a transoceanic voyage was far beyond the means of most of the population at this time. Irish Dendrochronologist Mike Baillie has confirmed tree ring patterns in 1740 that were consistent with severe cold.\n\nThe year 1741, during which the famine was at its worst and mortality was greatest, was known in folk memory as the \"year of the slaughter\" (or \"bliain an áir\" in Irish).\n\nIreland faced an extended crisis in the 1840s famine, which lasted longer than the 1740s events. One-third of the potato crop failed in 1845 and 1848, but two-thirds failed in 1846, a massive loss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13551707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551707", "title": "Liquidity crisis", "text": "Liquidity crisis\n\nIn financial economics, a liquidity crisis refers to an acute shortage (or \"drying up\") of \"liquidity\". Liquidity may refer to market liquidity (the ease with which an asset can be converted into a liquid medium, e.g. cash), funding liquidity (the ease with which borrowers can obtain external funding), or accounting liquidity (the health of an institution's balance sheet measured in terms of its cash-like assets). Additionally, some economists define a market to be liquid if it can absorb \"liquidity trades\" (sale of securities by investors to meet sudden needs for cash) without large changes in price. This shortage of liquidity could reflect a fall in asset prices below their long run fundamental price, deterioration in external financing conditions, reduction in the number of market participants, or simply difficulty in trading assets.\n\nThe above-mentioned forces mutually reinforce each other during a liquidity crisis. Market participants in need of cash find it hard to locate potential trading partners to sell their assets. This may result either due to limited market participation or because of a decrease in cash held by financial market participants. Thus asset holders may be forced to sell their assets at a price below the long term fundamental price. Borrowers typically face higher loan costs and collateral requirements, compared to periods of ample liquidity, and unsecured debt is nearly impossible to obtain. Typically, during a liquidity crisis, the interbank lending market does not function smoothly either.\n\nSeveral mechanisms operating through the mutual reinforcement of asset market liquidity and funding liquidity can amplify the effects of a small negative shock to the economy and result in lack of liquidity and eventually a full blown financial crisis.\n\nOne of the earliest and most influential models of liquidity crisis and bank runs was given by Diamond and Dybvig in 1983. The Diamond–Dybvig model demonstrates how financial intermediation by banks, performed by accepting assets that are inherently illiquid and offering liabilities which are much more liquid (offer a smoother pattern of returns), can make banks vulnerable to a bank run. Emphasizing the role played by demand deposit contracts in providing liquidity and better risk sharing among people, they argue that such a demand deposit contract has a potential undesirable equilibrium where all depositors panic and withdraw their deposits immediately. This gives rise to self-fulfilling panics among depositors, as we observe withdrawals by even those depositors who would have actually preferred to leave their deposits in, if they were not concerned about the bank failing. This can lead to failure of even 'healthy' banks and eventually an economy-wide contraction of liquidity, resulting in a full blown financial crisis.\n\nDiamond and Dybvig demonstrate that when banks provide pure demand deposit contracts, we can actually have multiple equilibria. If confidence is maintained, such contracts can actually improve on the competitive market outcome and provide better risk sharing. In such an equilibrium, a depositor will only withdraw when it is appropriate for him to do so under optimal risk–sharing. However, if agents panic, their incentives are distorted and in such an equilibrium, all depositors withdraw their deposits. Since liquidated assets are sold at a loss, therefore in this scenario, a bank will liquidate all its assets, even if not all depositors withdraw.\n\nNote that the underlying reason for withdrawals by depositors in the Diamond–Dybvig model is a shift in expectations. Alternatively, a bank run may occur because bank's assets, which are liquid but risky, no longer cover the nominally fixed liability (demand deposits), and depositors therefore withdraw quickly to minimize their potential losses.\n\nThe model also provides a suitable framework for analysis of devices that can be used to contain and even prevent a liquidity crisis (elaborated below).\n\nOne of the mechanisms, that can work to amplify the effects of a small negative shock to the economy, is the Balance Sheet Mechanism. Under this mechanism, a negative shock in the financial market lowers asset prices and erodes the financial institution's capital thus worsening its balance sheet. Consequently, two liquidity spirals come into effect, which amplify the impact of the initial negative shock. In an attempt to maintain its leverage ratio, the financial institution must sell its assets, precisely at a time when their price is low. Thus, assuming that asset prices depend on the health of investors' balance sheet, erosion of investors' net worth further reduces asset prices, which feeds back into their balance sheet and so on. This is what Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2008) term as the \"loss spiral\". At the same time, lending standards and margins tighten, leading to the \"margin spiral\". Both these effects cause the borrowers to engage in a fire sale, lowering prices and deteriorating external financing conditions.\n\nApart from the \"Balance Sheet Mechanism\" described above, the lending channel can also dry up for reasons exogenous to the borrower's credit worthiness. For instance, banks may become concerned about their future access to capital markets in the event of a negative shock and may engage in precautionary hoarding of funds. This would result in reduction of funds available in the economy and a slowdown in economic activity. Additionally, the fact that most financial institutions are simultaneously engaged in lending and borrowing can give rise to a Network effect. In a setting that involves multiple parties, a gridlock can occur when concerns about counterparty credit risk result in failure to cancel out offsetting positions. Each party then has to hold additional funds to protect itself against the risks that are not netted out, reducing liquidity in the market. These mechanisms may explain the 'gridlock' observed in the interbank lending market during the recent subprime crisis, when banks were unwilling to lend to each other and instead hoarded their reserves.\n\nBesides, a liquidity crisis may even result due to \"uncertainty\" associated with market activities. Typically, market participants jump on the financial innovation bandwagon, often before they can fully apprehend the risks associated with new financial assets. Unexpected behaviour of such new financial assets can lead to market participants disengaging from risks they don't understand and investing in more liquid or familiar assets. This can be described as the Information Amplification Mechanism. In the subprime mortagage crisis, rapid endorsement and later abandonment of complicated structured finance products such as collateralized debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities, etc. played a pivotal role in amplifying the effects of a drop in property prices.\n\nMany asset prices drop significantly during liquidity crises. Hence, asset prices are subject to liquidity risk and risk-averse investors naturally require higher expected return as compensation for this risk. The liquidity-adjusted CAPM pricing model therefore states that, the higher an asset's market-liquidity risk, the higher its required return. \nLiquidity crises such as the Liquidity crisis of September 2008 and the LTCM crisis of 1998 also result in deviations from the Law of one price, meaning that almost identical securities trade at different prices. This happens when investors are financially constrained and liquidity spirals affect more securities that are difficult to borrow against. Hence, a security's margin requirement can affect its value.\n\nA phenomenon frequently observed during liquidity crises is flight to liquidity as investors exit illiquid investments and turn to secondary markets in pursuit of cash–like or easily saleable assets. Empirical evidence points towards widening price differentials, during periods of liquidity shortage, among assets that are otherwise alike, but differ in terms of their asset market liquidity. For instance, there are often large liquidity premia (in some cases as much as 10-15%) in Treasury bond prices. An example of a flight to liquidity occurred during the 1998 Russian financial crisis, when the price of Treasury bonds sharply rose relative to less liquid debt instruments. This resulted in widening of credit spreads and major losses at Long-Term Capital Management and many other hedge funds.\n\nThere exists scope for government policy to alleviate a liquidity crunch, by absorbing less liquid assets and in turn providing the private sector with more liquid government – backed assets, through the following channels:\n\nPre-emptive or ex-ante policy: Imposition of minimum equity:capital requirements or ceilings on debt-to-equity ratio on financial institutions other than commercial banks would lead to more resilient balance sheets. In the context of the Diamond–Dybvig model, an example of a demand deposit contract that mitigates banks' vulnerability to bank runs, while allowing them to be providers of liquidity and optimal risk sharing, is one that entails suspension of convertibility when there are too many withdrawals. For instance, consider a contract which is identical to the pure demand deposit contract, except that it states that a depositor will not receive anything on a given date if he attempts to prematurely withdraw, after a certain fraction of the bank's total deposits have been withdrawn. Such a contract has a unique Nash Equilibrium which is stable and achieves optimal risk sharing.\n\nExpost policy intervention: Some experts suggest that the Central Bank should provide downside insurance in the event of a liquidity crisis. This could take the form of direct provision of insurance to asset-holders against losses or a commitment to purchasing assets in the event that the asset price falls below a threshold. Such 'Asset Purchases' will help drive up the demand and consequently the price of the asset in question, thereby easing the liquidity shortage faced by borrowers. Alternatively, the Government could provide 'deposit insurance', where it guarantees that a promised return will be paid to all those who withdraw. In the framework of the Diamond Dybvig model, demand deposit contracts with government deposit insurance help achieve the optimal equilibrium if the Government imposes an optimal tax to finance the deposit insurance. Alternative mechanisms through which the Central Bank could intervene are direct injection of equity into the system in the event of a liquidity crunch or engaging in a debt for equity swap. It could also lend through the discount window or other lending facilities, providing credit to distressed financial institutions on easier terms. Ashcraft, Garleanu, and Pedersen (2010) argue that controlling the credit supply through such lending facilities with low margin requirements is an important second monetary tool (in addition to the interest rate tool), which can raise asset prices, lower bond yields, and ease the funding problems in the financial system during crises. While there are such benefits of intervention, there is also costs. It is argued by many economists that if the Central Bank declares itself as a 'Lender of Last Resort' (LLR), this might result in a moral hazard problem, with the private sector becoming lapse and this may even exacerbate the problem. Many economists therefore assert that the LLR must only be employed in extreme cases and must be a discretion of the Government rather than a rule.\n\nIt has been argued by some economists that financial liberalization and increased inflows of foreign capital, especially if short term, can aggravate illiquidity of banks and increase their vulnerability. In this context, 'International Illiquidity' refers to a situation in which a country's short term financial obligations denominated in foreign/hard currency exceed the amount of foreign/hard currency that it can obtain on a short notice. Empirical evidence reveals that weak fundamentals alone cannot account for all foreign capital outflows, especially from emerging markets. Open economy extensions of the Diamond – Dybvig Model, where runs on domestic deposits interact with foreign creditor panics (depending on the maturity of the foreign debt and the possibility of international default), offer a plausible explanation for the financial crises that were observed in Mexico, East Asia, Russia etc. These models assert that international factors can play a particularly important role in increasing domestic financial vulnerability and likelihood of a liquidity crisis.\n\nThe onset of capital outflows can have particularly destabilising consequences for emerging markets. Unlike the banks of advanced economies, which typically have a number of potential investors in the world capital markets, \"informational frictions\" imply that investors in emerging markets are 'fair weather friends'. Thus self – fulfilling panics akin to those observed during a bank run, are much more likely for these economies. Moreover, policy distortions in these countries work to magnify the effects of adverse shocks. Given the limited access of emerging markets to world capital markets, illiquidity resulting from contemporaneous loss of domestic and foreign investor confidence is nearly sufficient to cause a financial and currency crises, the 1997 Asian financial crisis being one example.\n\n"}
{"id": "10329042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10329042", "title": "List of wettest tropical cyclones by country", "text": "List of wettest tropical cyclones by country\n\nThis is a list of wettest tropical cyclones by country, using all known available sources. Data is most complete for Australia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Japan, Hong Kong, Mexico, Taiwan, Yap, Chuuk, and the United States, with fragmentary data available for other countries. The French region of Réunion holds several world records for tropical cyclone and worldwide rainfall, due to the rough topography and its location in the Indian Ocean.\n\nBelow are the records for each country above.\n\nChristmas Island is an Australian territory located in the Indian Ocean located at the summit of a submarine mountain, which rises steeply to a central plateau that is dominated by stands of rainforest. After rainfall and wind observations started on the island during 1972, only 13 tropical cyclones passed within of the territory between 1972 and 2005.\n\nThe Cocos (Keeling) Islands are an Australian territory of 27 coral islands that are formed into two large coral atolls and cover an area of around of the Indian Ocean to the northwest of Perth, Australia. Rainfall observations started on the islands during 1907, while temperature, wind and other records started in 1952. Between 1952 and 2005 27 tropical cyclones caused storm force wind gusts of over on the islands, while only four caused hurricane-force gusts of over .\n\nBangladesh has been the scene of the greatest tropical cyclone casualties in recent times. The country is quite flat and generally lies near sea level.\n\nThis country has terrain mainly across its southern sections, with elevations up to about . The highest reported rainfall in what was formerly British Honduras occurred during Hurricane Keith in 2000 when of rain fell in a 24‑hour period at Phillip Goodson International Airport in Belize City. It should be noted that equally heavy rains could have fallen during Hurricane Hattie of 1961 and Hurricane Fifi of 1974.\n\nTropical cyclones are usually in transition to extratropical cyclones by the time they reach Atlantic Canada, though occasionally they retain their tropical status. No tropical cyclone has ever hit Canada's Pacific coast.\n\nChina is a mountainous country, which leads to rapid dissipation of cyclones that move inland as well as significant amounts of rain from those dissipating cyclones. Typhoon Nina (1975) caused the collapse of two huge reservoirs and ten smaller dams when fell in Henan during a 24‑hour period, which is the record for Mainland China. Typhoon Sam of the 1999 Pacific typhoon season became the wettest known tropical cyclone to impact Hong Kong since records began in 1884, breaking a 73‑year‑old record. Precipitation associated with tropical cyclones and their remains can bring snow to Tibet. An early October 2004 tropical depression brought daily precipitation of of liquid equivalent precipitation to Che-Ku county in the form of heavy snow, which was a new October daily precipitation record for both rain and snow. This led to a loss of 340,000 kg of food, 230,000 kg of forage grass, and 263 livestock in the snowstorm.\n\nHurricane Flora of October 1963 drifted across Cuba for four days, leading to extreme rainfall across the mountainous island country. During the heaviest 24‑hour period of rainfall, of rain fell at Santiago de Cuba. Total amounts of over 4 days and over 5 days produced staggering loss of life in Cuba, where over 2000 perished.\n\nThe islands of the eastern Caribbean are constantly threatened by tropical storms and hurricanes, mainly between August and October. Dominica is a rugged island, with spots of elevation as high as nearly . As Hurricane Jeanne moved through the region, of rain fell during the 24‑hour period ending on the morning of September 15, 2004.\n\nThe Dominican Republic, has some of the highest terrain surrounding the Caribbean Sea, with Pico Duarte peaking at above sea level. Most of the tropical cyclone rainfall totals on the list below are 24‑hour maxima, which likely underrepresent the storm total.\n\nElevations of the islands surrounding Chuuk lagoon reach a height of about . Typhoon Chataan led to excessive rainfall on this island from June 23 – July 3, 2002, when a total of fell. During the time frame when Chataan was declared a tropical cyclone from July 1–3, fell, with falling on the 2nd alone at the international airport.\n\nThe state is mountainous island lies in the tropical northwest Pacific Ocean.\nPohnpei State\n\nThe wettest known tropical cyclone for the state was Ruby in 1982, which drifted in the island's vicinity for several days during its initial development phase.\n\nOrography from the volcanic islands of Fiji has led to significant rainfall during tropical cyclone passages, which occur roughly once a year.\n\nHurricane Marilyn moved directly across the island in mid-September 1995, bringing the highest known rainfall totals to the island from a tropical cyclone.\n\nMartinique is a mountainous island at the fringe of the eastern Caribbean Sea.\n\nThe mountainous island of Réunion has experienced several of the highest rainfall totals on record from tropical cyclones and holds the rainfall world records for 12, 24, 48, 72 hours, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten days as a result. The 12 and 24 hourly rainfall records were set at Foc-Foc by Cyclone Denise in 1966, while an Unnamed Tropical Cyclone between April 8–10, 1958 set the record for 48 hours at Aurere. Tropical Cyclone Gamede between February 24–28, 2007 came close to beating the records for 12, 24 and 48 hours before setting the records for three, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine days that were held by Tropical Cyclone Hyacinthe 1980. Hyacinthe 1980 currently holds the world records for ten and fifteen days with rainfall totals of and respectively recorded at Commerson Crater.\n\nBermuda has not historically received overwhelming rains out of tropical cyclones. This could be because of the rapid pace storms usually pass the island and the lack of mountains on the island.\n\nTropical Storm Agatha in May 2010 became the second-wettest tropical cyclone in the nation's history when it slowly developed while remaining nearly stationary to the southwest of Guatemala, before turning northeast and dissipating across inland Central America.\n\nHaiti that makes up three-eighths of Hispaniola, is a mountainous country that has experienced some of the most powerful hurricanes on record, including Hurricane David. Its three mountain ranges have peaks as high as 8793 feet/2680 meters above sea level.\n\nIndia can be struck by cyclones that form in the Bay of Bengal or the Arabian Sea.\n\nThe precursor tropical disturbance of Tropical Cyclone Inigo in April 2003 dropped heavy rainfall in eastern Indonesia. The rainfall caused flash flooding and mudslides, primarily in Flores but also on West Timor and Sumba. In some locations, the depth of the floodwaters reached . The Oessao River in West Timor exceeded its banks, which flooded seven villages. In Kupang in West Timor, the system destroyed hundreds of homes and large fields of corn, bean, and rice crop. Heavy damage was reported near Ende, where flooding and mudslides destroyed 20 houses and destroyed the roads connecting to East Flores. The city airport was flooded with one meter (3 ft) of water, preventing aerial transportation and which left the city temporarily isolated. In East Flores Regency in eastern Flores Island, the system left 75 destroyed houses, along with 77 severely damaged and a further 56 receiving light damage.\n\nThis mountainous island country of Jamaica can get lashed with rainfall by slow-moving tropical cyclones in the western Caribbean Sea. Its interior, the Blue Mountains, reach a height of above sea level.\n\nThe mountainous island archipelago is constantly struck by typhoons recurving out of the tropics, which are normally in extratropical transition as they pass through Japan. Typhoon Namtheun of the 2004 Pacific typhoon season holds the national 24-hour precipitation record with observed in Kisawa village, surpassing the previous record of set during Typhoon Fran in 1976.\n\nTyphoon Rusa caused of rain to fall at Naze on August 29–30, 2002. Typhoon Aere dropped of rain in the 65‑hour period ending at 1400 UTC on August 25, 2004 at Ishigakihima. Typhoon Agnes in August 1957 dropped of rainfall on Marcus Island. In 1972, Typhoon Rita dumped on Okinoerabu Shima.\n\nTropical cyclones occasionally threaten this central Pacific island. Hurricane Celeste of 1972 brought to the isle around August 19.\n\nThe Korean Peninsula experiences typhoons regularly. Tropical cyclones which impact southern China also lead to, on average, five heavy rainfall events per year across the Korean peninsula.\n\nVery heavy rains fell across Tongchon and Kosong counties during Typhoon Rusa in 2002, where up to of precipitation fell in a 5- to 10-hour period.\n\nThe north end of the island, known as the Tsaratanana Massif region, contains terrain with elevations up to 9417 feet/2880 meters.\n\nHurricane Wilma of 2005 drifted over the northeast portion of the Yucatán peninsula for a couple of days, dropping significant rains. A report of was reported by the Servicio Meteorológico Nacional in Mexico, which is the wettest known 24-hour rainfall amount ever measured in Mexico. Second on the list is from Tropical Storm Frances in 1998, which accumulated up to of rain at Independencia in southern Chiapas. Below is a list of the highest known storm total rainfall amounts from individual tropical cyclones across Mexico. Most of the rainfall information was provided by the Mexico's National Weather Service, Servicio Meteorológico Nacional, which is a part of the National Water Commission, \"Comisión Nacional del Agua\".\n\nThe elevation of the country increases to the west, with mountains on its highest plateau reaching nearly .\n\nSome of the highest elevations on the planet lie in Nepal. Eight out of fourteen highest peaks in the world lie in the Nepalese Himalaya including the highest peak of the World, Mt. Everest (8848 m). During a tropical depression that affected the Indian Subcontinent in 2004, of rain fell at Kathmandu airport in the 24‑hour period ending at 1200 UTC on October 7.\n\nThis hilly island is partially owned by France and partially claimed by the Netherlands.\n\nMost tropical cyclones which pass near New Zealand are in extratropical transition (ET) or have become extratropical, which can enhance their heavy rainfall threat.\n\nDuring the passage of Tropical Cyclone Heta in January 2004, the Niue Meteorological Station reported a record 24-hour rainfall of .\n\nTropical cyclones for the Arabian Sea usually affect Pakistan. Tropical cyclones from the Bay of Bengal can affect Pakistan, though they usually weaken by the time they reach the Pakistani coastline.\n\nPalau consists of a string of islands that is rugged and surrounds a lagoon. Elevations up to exist within the island group.\nInflow to the south of Hurricane Mitch brought impressive rainfalls to the Panama. Veledero de Tole recorded of rainfall between October 22 and 31, 1998.\n\nThis Philippines island archipelago is fairly mountainous, with the highest terrain found in Luzon.\n\nTyphoon Vamei of December 20, 2001 was the only known storm to ever hit the island state. It dropped of rainfall.\n\nTropical Cyclone Eline in February 2000 dropped significant rains on portions of South Africa. The highest amount noted was at Thohoyandou.\n\nThe only tropical cyclone to reach mainland Europe was 2005's Hurricane Vince. It dropped of rain on the plain near Cordoba.\n\nA tropical depression in early October 2004 led to heavy rains across Sri Lanka. The maximum was measured at Galle where fell in the 24‑hour period ending at 0600 UTC on the 2nd.\n\nTropical Cyclone Darius of New Year's Eve/Day of 2003/2004 passed about west-northwest of the island. Rainfall over the 24‑hour period of closest approach was .\n\nThe mountainous island of Taiwan experiences an average of 1.8 tropical cyclone landfalls each year. Due to its rugged topography, Taiwan sees extreme rains from tropical cyclones, particularly in its central mountain range.\n\nTropical cyclones occasionally cross the Malay Peninsula from the northwest Pacific into the Bay of Bengal.\n\nA few tropical cyclones have skimmed the northern coast of South America over recent decades. Tropical Storm Bret (1993) dropped of rain in ten hours at Guanare, Portuguesa, Venezuela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27758406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27758406", "title": "Long Night of the Sciences", "text": "Long Night of the Sciences\n\nThe Long Night of the Sciences () has become an established form of public relations activity in Germany. On one night of the year, large scientific institutions hold lectures and demonstrations for the general public in order to present themselves and a general overview of their research topics. The events cover all aspects of science, from natural sciences to social sciences. The public can usually visit the institutions between around 5pm and 1am on the \"Long Night of the Sciences\" in exchange for a fee.\n\nThe format of the event is inspired by the successful Long Night of Museums in Berlin. The event first took place as part of the Science Summer 2000 () event in Bonn. Berlin organized a similar event the following year and gained a larger response, with a total of visitors.\n\nBesides Berlin, this event format has also been successfully implemented in other scientific locations, including:\n\n\nThe program for the 9th \"Long Night of the Sciences\" in Berlin and Potsdam on 13 June 2009 featured more than individual events held by 67 participants in 160 buildings. 15 special bus routes were provided for the night. There were around visitors in total.\n\n\"The Long Night of the Sciences\" in the region of Nuremberg, Fürth and Erlangen is held every two years and offers events in the fields of natural sciences, technology, medicine and health as well as social, cultural and economic sciences. The event, which started in 2003, will open its doors for the seventh time on Saturday 24 October 2015. The goal is to build a bridge between research and public. The program contains a wide range of exhibitions, experiments and presentations - hosted by more than 300 institutions including the six regional universities as well as innovative companies and local establishments. In the afternoon there is also a special program for children. During the night the participating institutions will be connected by a special bus service driving ten different routes.\n\nIn 2013 there had been registered more than 30.000 participants on 130 locations. Most of the visitors were younger than 30 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54318764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54318764", "title": "Lynne Patton", "text": "Lynne Patton\n\nLynne Martine Patton (born 1973 or 1974) is an American event planner, who was designated in June 2017 by President Donald Trump to head Region II of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees New York and New Jersey. \n\nShe previously worked as an event planner for the Trump family, including planning the wedding of Eric Trump, and helping to run the Eric Trump Foundation. She was a speaker at the 2016 Republican National Convention.\n\nPatton grew up in New Haven, Connecticut. Her father is epidemiologist Curtis L. Patton, who was a professor (now emeritus) at Yale University.\n\nPatton graduated from the University of Miami with a B.A. in English literature. She attended the Quinnipiac University School of Law; school officials have stated that she was a student for only two semesters, and did not graduate. On her LinkedIn page, Patton also claims affiliation with Yale University, which she did not attend.\n\nAn Eric Trump Foundation staff biography of Patton states that she was involved in casting the 2012 and 2014 seasons of \"The Celebrity Apprentice\".\n\nPatton was one of 16 unpaid directors at the Eric Trump Foundation, though her position did not appear in the Foundation's 2014 tax filings. Her HUD financial disclosures stated that she had been a vice president and a board member at the Eric Trump Foundation from January 2009 to January 2017, and she speaks of being with the Trump family since 2009.\n\nIn May 2016, during Donald Trump's 2016 Presidential campaign, Patton narrated a YouTube video called \"The Trump Family I Know – A Black Female Trump Executive Speaks Out,\" in which she defended Trump against accusations that he was racist. She spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention; the official convention program listed her position as \"Vice President of The Eric Trump Foundation and Senior Assistant to Eric Trump, Ivanka Trump, and Donald Trump, Jr.\" In her convention speech, she acknowledged historical racism, but said that Donald Trump knows that black lives, LGBTQ lives, veterans' lives, and police lives matter. Later in the campaign, Patton joined other campaign spokeswomen on the Trump-Pence Women's Empowerment Tour.\n\nShe is a director of National Diversity Coalition for Trump.\n\nBeginning in January 2017, Patton served as a White House liaison and Director of Public Liaison for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Since the Trump Organization co-owns some properties that receive federal rental subsidies from HUD, her position raised questions of conflict of interest.\n\nBeginning in July 5, 2017, Patton is to head Region II. She has no reported experience with housing policy. Congressional Representatives Grace Meng and Nydia Velázquez, both Democrats from New York, publicly urged the administration to reconsider the appointment.\n\nIn January 2018, Patton called April Ryan, the White House correspondent and Washington bureau chief for American Urban Radio Networks, \"Miss Piggy\". Patton later apologized.\n\nIn September 2018, Patton mocked sexual allegations against Supreme Court justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh. That same month, she also falsely claimed that CNN host Anderson Cooper had faked a live shot.\n\nPatton says she has struggled with substance abuse and addiction, and publicly praised the Trump family for standing by her through tough times.\n"}
{"id": "15808310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15808310", "title": "Maiden voyage", "text": "Maiden voyage\n\nThe maiden voyage of a ship, aircraft or other craft is the first journey made by the craft in its intended duty. A number of traditions and superstitions are associated with it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48727323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48727323", "title": "Marching Song (play)", "text": "Marching Song (play)\n\nMarching Song is a play about the legend of abolitionist John Brown, written in 1932 by Orson Welles and Roger Hill. It is most notable for its narrative device of a journalist piecing together a man's life through multiple, contradictory recollections—a framework that Welles would famously employ in his 1941 film, \"Citizen Kane\". Although the play has never been published or professionally performed, an abridged version of \"Marching Song\" was presented in June 1950 at the Woodstock Opera House in Woodstock, Illinois, a world-premiere benefit production by the Todd School for Boys. \n\nIn March 1932, two months shy of his 17th birthday, Orson Welles returned to Chicago from his post-graduation trip to Europe and his time with the Gate Theatre in Dublin. Finding that he had few prospects despite his success in Ireland, Welles persuaded Roger Hill, his former teacher and lifelong friend, to collaborate with him on a biographical play about abolitionist John Brown and his efforts to organize a slave revolt in 1859. In May, Welles visited Harper's Ferry and other historic sites with Hill, who was leading a two-week field trip for boys attending the Todd School. In August, Welles retreated to Lac du Flambeau, Wisconsin, and stayed at the summer home of James B. Meigs and his family while he wrote the play. Welles typed a cover page that credits the play as being by \"Orson Welles and Roger Hill\"; Hill said he wrote only a few scenes that Welles edited and reworked. \n\n\"My own contribution to writing that play was a first draft of a first act,\" Hill recalled. \"In other words, just enough to start our tireless boy off and, more importantly, \"send\" him off. Out of my hair.\"\n\nThough Welles's complete playscript for \"Marching Song\" has not been produced, the Todd School for Boys presented an abbreviated world premiere of the play June 7–8, 1950, at the Woodstock Opera House. Hascy Tarbox, Welles's Todd School classmate and Hill's son-in-law, trimmed the four-hour play to two hours and staged the two performances for the benefit of the Woodstock Hospital.\n\nThough \"Marching Song\" has not been published, a copy of the typescript, including Welles's sketches and set design instructions, is held by the Lilly Library at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana.\n\nOn September 30, 1985, Hill told Welles that he had located his own copy of the play, which he planned to give him. \"For my money it remains a compelling, if overly long, play. If that God-awful \"Hearts of Age\" … is worth saving, \"Marching Song\", written two years earlier, should rate a Pulitzer. At least it's worth publication.\"\n"}
{"id": "35617262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35617262", "title": "Men's Fashion Week Los Angeles", "text": "Men's Fashion Week Los Angeles\n\nSince 2010, Fashion Week producers in New York, London, Paris and Vancouver have pushed to expand the realm of Fashion Week by creating a separate Fashion Week (weekend or day) for menswear fashion designers and retail brands. Los Angeles is the 5th in the world to develop a Fashion Week for menswear, succeeding New York, London, Paris and Vancouver.\n\nDuring Men’s Fashion Week LA (MFWLA), menswear fashion designers and retail brands present their latest collections to industry insiders—press, media, bloggers, buyers, stylists, high-profile guests and fashion occult. Men’s Fashion Week LA is held twice a year: January (Autumn/Winter); and June (Spring/Summer). The one-week event is held a few days preceding the traditional (women’s) Los Angeles Fashion Week.\nMen’s Fashion Week Los Angeles was created to provide a platform for the evolving menswear apparel segment. MFWLA fuses fashion week runway shows, trade show style exhibits and market week type custom pop-up showrooms. Men’s Fashion Week Los Angeles’ calendar is generally composed of designer runway shows, one department store showcase, one emerging talent student showcase, launch parties and the like. MFWLA also features press installations.\n\nAdditional amenities found at Men’s Fashion Week LA are a “Gentry Suite”, “Cigar Lounge”, “Pop-Up Barber Shop”, “Gaming Suite” and a “Bow Tie Technique Suite”.\n\nTo reflect the original working-name, “Gentlemen’s Week”, a bow tie was linked to the company logo. The bow tie personifies MFWLA’s company philosophy, which (as indicated by the company website) was founded on honor and civility among aesthete gentlemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "50780871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780871", "title": "Minggu Pagi", "text": "Minggu Pagi\n\nMinggu Pagi (Indonesian for \"Sunday Morning\") is an Indonesian general interest weekly published by the Yogyakarta-based Kedaulatan Rakyat Group. It began in 1948 as a magazine, switching to the tabloid format in the 1980s.\n\n\"Minggu Pagi\" was established as a magazine in the central Javan city of Yogyakarta on 7 December 1948 by M. Wonohito and H. Samawi; the former was the editor in chief of the newspaper \"Kedaulatan Rakyat\". Afterwards, the magazine did not publish again until 1950. The issues published through early 1951 were listed as Volume 2. In April 1953 \"Minggu Pagi\" jumped from Volume 4 to Volume 6, thus bringing the number of volumes in-line with the years since the magazine was established.\n\nDuring a period of hyperinflation in the early 1960s, \"Minggu Pagi\" ceased publication as a standalone magazine. It was reduced to eight pages and included as a supplemental with the newspaper \"Kedaulatan Rakyat\"; as a result, the magazine's subscribers were required to pay extra for the newspaper. As the economy improved in the 1970s, \"Minggu Pagi\" was again issued as a stand-alone publication. It ultimately migrated to the tabloid format in the 1980s. \n\nIn 1992 the United States Information Service described \"Minggu Pagi\", which by then consisted of twelve pages, as one of the oldest extant press publications in Indonesia. At this time it was one of several media published by Kedaulatan Rakyat Group, together with the newspaper \"Kedaulatan Rakyat\", the children's magazine \"Gatotkaca\", and the Javanese-language magazine \"Mekar Sari\". \n\nIn its early years, \"Minggu Pagi\" included articles on a variety of topics, including science, film, traditional culture, tourism, and sports. It also included space for literary works, primarily short stories. Among short story writers and other authors, the magazine was seen as providing an alternative space for publication, one accessible to those who had not yet been recognized by the Jakarta-based \"rulers\" of the Indonesian literary canon. Given this opportunity, as well as the honorariums paid to authors, \"Minggu Pagi\" soon became a popular medium in which local writers could publish their works. \n\nIn the 1950s, the Indonesian author described \"Minggu Pagi\", as a \"cesspool\", a descriptor that the academic Will Derks characterises as \"embracing the low status and insignificance [the magazine] might have had in the eyes of scholars and critics\". Nevertheless, by 1988 more than four hundred writers had contributed their literary works to the magazine and its successor. These included Motinggo Busye, , Rendra, Bakri Siregar, and Djamin, who published his novel \"Hilanglah Si Anak Hilang\" in \"Minggu Pagi\" between 1960 and 1961 on request of the editors.\n\nIn the 1990s, \"Minggu Pagi\" had a column on sexuality, \"Liku-Lika Seksualitas\", managed by a \"Dr. Rosi\". It also regularly featured information on miraculous healing, sacred sites, and invulnerability practices. \n\n"}
{"id": "58577910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58577910", "title": "Parapotamii", "text": "Parapotamii\n\nParapotamii or Parapotamioi () or Parapotamia (Παραποταμία), both meaning near the river, was a town of ancient Phocis on the left bank of the Cephissus (whence its name), and near the frontier of Boeotia. Its position is described in a passage of Theopompus, preserved by Strabo, who says that it stood at a distance of 40 stadia from Chaeroneia, in the entrance from Boeotia into Phocis, on a height of moderate elevation, situated between Parnassus and Mount Hedylium; he adds that these two mountains were separated from each other by an interval of 5 stadia, through which the Cephissus flowed. The Cephissus flowed into the territory of Parapotamii after leaving that of Elateia and before that of Panopeus; Parapotamii's territory was adjacent to those of Ambrysus, Panopeus, and Daulis. \n\nPausanias emphasized the great fertility of its area which was such that it was even said that the name of Parapotamii was the designation for those who had their crops next to Cephissus and that they referred to a verse of Homer in the \"Catalogue of Ships\" of the \"Iliad\" that read: \"And those who dwelt by the divine river Cephissus\"\n\nDuring the Greco-Persian Wars, Parapotamii was one of the places destroyed by the Achaemenid army under Xerxes I in 480 BCE In 395 BCE, its territory was sacked by the Boeotians, who however were unsuccessful in their attempt to assault the city. It was one of the cities devastated by Philip II of Macedon at the conclusion of the Third Sacred War. Pausanias mentions that, during the first Pythian Games (582 BCE) organized by the Delphic Amphictyony, in the youth boxing, Ecmeas of Parapotamii was a victor. He adds that after its destruction it was not rebuilt and that in his time (2nd century) there were no more ruins and no one remembered the exact place where it was. Plutarch in his life of Sulla speaks of the acropolis of the deserted city, which he describes as a stony height surrounded with a precipice and separated from Mt. Hedylium only by the river Assus.\n\nThe location of Parapotamii is near the modern village of Belesi (Levendi).\n"}
{"id": "20731129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731129", "title": "Personal watercraft-related accidents", "text": "Personal watercraft-related accidents\n\nThe number of personal watercraft-related accidents has increased with the popularity of personal watercraft (PWC) (also commonly known as jet skis) since their introduction during the late 1960s. The use of the term \"jet ski\" for all types of PWCs is a misnomer; Jet Ski is a registered trademark in the United States for a line of PWCs manufactured by Kawasaki). With the increased use of personal watercraft since their inception, the hazards accompanying their use have also increased. According to U.S. government reports, most accidents are associated with rental operators, underage operators, under-trained and undereducated boaters and a variety of factors associated with recreational-boating accidents (excessive speed, inattention, reckless operation, alcohol consumption and violations of the \"Rules of the Road\"). Due to their affordability, ease of use, and relatively low transportation and maintenance costs, personal watercraft have significantly increased the number of water-based enthusiasts in the U.S. This rise in participation has created conflicts between the various boating segments in the U.S. and a need for additional boater education. Recreational-boating accidents are the second-largest transportation-related cause of injury in the U.S. (after automobile accidents).\n\nPersonal watercraft are vessels designed for recreational use on the water, carrying between one and four passengers. The U.S. Coast Guard defines PWC as \"craft less than 13 feet in length designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft rather than within the confines of a hull\". The original PWCs were manufactured during the mid-1950s in the United Kingdom and Europe. Ten years later Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) began manufacturing PWC's in the USA under the name Sea-Doo. BRP left the PWC business shortly thereafter, and in 1973 Kawasaki introduced a \"stand-up\" watercraft designed for a single operator (with a tray for standing or kneeling, in place of a seat). By the late 1980s \"sit-down\" models had appeared on the market, allowing the rider to be seated (similar to a snowmobile or motorcycle seat). These sit-down models were made by Kawasaki (1986), Yamaha (1987) and BRP (1988). Polaris and Arctic were two American companies which entered the market during the early 1990s.\n\nPWC have an inboard engine with a screw-shaped impeller to create thrust and propulsion for steering. They are small, fast, and easy to maneuver; PWCs do not use external propellers, making them safer for swimmers and wildlife. The user-friendly properties of PWCs have contributed to the increase in popularity amongst less-experienced watercraft users. To increase safety, a number of U.S. consumer groups suggested that all boats should utilize the jet-drive mechanism (also called a pump-jet) employed by PWC manufacturers since this would reduce the risk of propeller injuries.\n\nAll boating accidents in the United States either occur on state- or federally-patrolled waters. Whether state or federal, reports must be filed for a predefined level of damage and are compiled by the United States Coast Guard (which uses the reported data for its annual BAR—Boating Accident Report—Statistical Reports). As automotive law-enforcement officers outnumber boating law-enforcement officers in the U.S., federal government reports for watercraft are comparatively fewer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted general investigation of the recreational-boating accident-reporting system in 1998 and compiled its findings in a published report. The NTSB's investigation emerged with data seen as representative of overall recreational boating; an example follows from the report's conclusion:\n\nInattention (attributed to 307 operators), inexperience (attributed to 296 operators), and inappropriate speed for the operating conditions (attributed to 246 operators) were the most frequently cited causes that contributed to the PWC accidents. One or more of these three causes were associated with 70 percent of the 814 accidents. A fourth cause, improper lookout (153), was associated with about one-fifth of the accidents.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned interpretation of the NTSB report: \n\nA study performed by the Red Cross in 1991 concluded that during the research period, PWC accidents were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population. This was later supported by a Coast Guard study presented to the State of Vermont in 1996. Both studies presented findings that the comparative accident rates for personal water craft were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population; the reports emphasized the high level of attention and publicity that PWC accidents receive.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several states (including California and Florida, two jurisdictions which, according to the NTSB report, accounted for over 50 percent of all personal-water-craft accidents in the U.S.) changed their laws regarding the use of personal water craft. These amendments included the introduction of limits for wake-jumping, the prescribed use of a PWC within of another vessel, \"spraying\" activities, mandated operation of PWCs within of the shoreline, and age restrictions for operators (the operator age was raised from 12 to 16 years for all affected states, with Florida also introducing a mandatory boating-safety course for those under age 18). According to the State of California, these laws have directly contributed to an over-50-percent reduction in accidents.\n\nA notable fatality occurred on July 1, 2012 in Little Sabine Bay (near Pensacola Beach), Florida; retired astronaut Alan Poindexter was killed when the PWC he was riding was rammed by one operated by one of his sons.\n\nThe leading cause of PWC accidents among riders in 2007 was reckless or careless driving. According to the National Transportation Safety Board in the U.S., this accounted for 26.3 percent of all PWCs involved in accidents in 2007. Reckless driving has been defined in the Personal Watercraft Act of 2005 in the U.S. as follows:\nReckless driving is defined differently by state. For example, in Florida reckless driving on a PWC is defined as \"maneuvering a personal watercraft by weaving through congested vessel traffic, jumping the wake of another vessel unreasonably close or when visibility around the vessel is obstructed, or swerving at the last possible moment to avoid collision is classified as reckless operation of a vessel\".\nIn U.S. law, the penalties for operating a vessel in a negligent or reckless manner are defined as following:\n(a) A person operating a vessel in a negligent manner or interfering with the safe operation of a vessel, so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of a person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 in the case of a recreational vessel, or $25,000 in the case of any other vessel.\n(b) A person operating a vessel in a grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.\nBecause of the increasing popularity of water sports (particularly PWC), the number of vessels in use has increased in the last several decades. According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the number of registered vessels was 8,557,857 in 1980 and 12,875,568 in 2007. This has resulted in more-crowded waterways and increased hazards. Because of the increased congestion caused by the number of vessels, a heightened need for attention and caution is required by operators. In 2007, 17.2 percent of all PWC-related accidents were caused by driver inattention.\n\nAs the market has grown for PWC manufacturers, vessel power has also increased. Modern PWC engines have more than 250 horsepower and can reach speeds of over . Excessive speed accounted for nearly 15 percent of all PWC-related accidents in 2007, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nThe steering characteristics of jet boats (including personal watercraft) when they are \"off throttle\" seem to differ from conventional steering. All recreational planing boats steer with thrust. Jet boats (including PWCs) generate that thrust with a moveable nozzle connected to a jet pump; propeller boats generate thrust through a downward-placed, exposed propeller. The fact that the propeller is placed downward in the water and is exposed means that even when it is not generating thrust that some amount of steering effect is possible. Jet boats have no downward projection, and achieve no additional steering effect from the device. If the operator of a jet boat releases the throttle, steering effectiveness decreases roughly in proportion to thrust reduction. The NTSB related an example of an off-throttle steering accident in the personal watercraft safety study of 1998: \nThe Florida Marine Patrol accident description states, \"[Operator] was\nattempting to make a turn south through a cut in the mangroves . . . . He was not real familiar with operating a jet ski with a passenger. When he attempted to make a left turn he let off the throttle which caused the PWC to lose steering capabilities. The forward momentum of the PWC took [operator] and passenger into the mangrove shoreline.\n[Operator] received a puncture wound to the left side of his neck . . . .\"\nAccording to the NTSB, 24 percent of reported PWC accidents list steering problems or loss of control as contributing factors; in Florida, it is the second-leading cause of PWC-related accidents. PWC manufacturers have been working to develop a system to prevent off-throttle steering. Modifications have been made to solve this problem in newer PWC models.\n\nBecause of the ease of operating a PWC, little training and experience is required to perform basic maneuvers of a PWC. The NTSB reported in 1998 that 32 percent of operators involved in accidents reported that they had operated a vessel between zero and ten times prior to the accident; 86 never, 75 once and 225 between 2 and 10 times. Of the 712 operators who were asked about training, 84 percent said they had received no training and the other 16 percent participated in some boating training. Regulations concerning training courses and age limits for operators vary by state and by country. In the U.S. the minimum operator age ranges from 12–18 years; young operators may require adult supervision on the vessel and training in accordance with local laws.\n\nOne particularly serious type of personal watercraft injury occurs when a female rider falls off the back of the craft and into the path of the craft's high-pressure water jet.The jet thrust is powerful enough to push water into the rider's orifices, which can result in severe internal injuries to the rider's vagina, rectum or anus, and possibly death.\n\nFor example, in 2014, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District, Division One upheld in full a San Diego County jury verdict against Bombardier Recreational Products and two other defendants in favor of two plaintiffs injured simultaneously in a single 2007 fall from a PWC, which included awards, respectively, of $3.385 million and $1.063 million in compensatory damages (with liability divided in equal portions among the three defendants). The appellate court also affirmed awards of $1.5 million in punitive damages against BRP alone for each plaintiff (adding up to $3 million in punitive damages) which were based on the jury's express finding that BRP's conduct manifested a \"reckless or callous disregard for the rights of others\".\n\nHowever, on the other hand, there are also examples where the owner, operator, and/or user of the personal watercraft have been found entirely at fault by a jury without any fault whatsoever on the manufacturer. For example, in 2010 in a case venued in the federal court of the Middle District of Florida, a jury found the 2006 Sea-Doo safe and not defective as to design, warnings, manufacture, and that BRP was not negligent in the design of its product. BRP maintained the Sea-Doo was reasonably safe, state-of-the-art, compliant with industry standards as well as the U.S. Coast Guard's standards, and was not the cause of plaintiff's injuries and/or accident. The plaintiff testified she did not have any conversation with anyone concerning the use of protective gear, such as wet suit bottoms or equivalent protective clothing and was not provided any safety information before riding. During the trial, the operator admitted he saw, but chose not to read, the onboard warning label. He also admitted that he did not read the safety recommendations in the operator’s guide nor watch the safety video. Counsel for BRP in the Thomas case, Scott Sarason, commented on the case that, “Statistically speaking, the probability of the type of incident involved in this case is extremely rare. Owners, operators and passengers of personal watercrafts must think safety first. It’s important for people to realize that these watercraft are classified as boats. That’s why the watercraft industry has been working diligently with authorities like the U.S. Coast Guard to introduce programs like ‘Know Before You Go’ in an effort to prevent accidents and injuries.” The Thomas case is just one example, of a handful, where such a rare accident is caused by extraneous persons or factors (including, but not limited to, the presence of alcohol, operator inexperience/inattention, careless or reckless operation, violation of state/local boating laws, failure on the part of the operator and/or owner to convey necessary safety information provided by the manufacturer, etc.). \n"}
{"id": "5532250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5532250", "title": "Puerto Rican Day Parade", "text": "Puerto Rican Day Parade\n\nThe Puerto Rican Day Parade (also known as the National Puerto Rican Day Parade) takes place annually in the United States along Fifth Avenue in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York. The parade is held on the second Sunday in June, in honor of the nearly four million inhabitants of Puerto Rico and all people of Puerto Rican birth or heritage residing in the mainland U.S.\n\nThe parade attracts many celebrities, both Puerto Rican and of Puerto Rican heritage, and many politicians from the Tri-State area.\n\nThe parade marches along Fifth Avenue from 44th Street to 86th Street and has grown to become one of the largest parades in New York City, with nearly two million spectators annually making it one of the largest outdoor events in the United States. Although the largest Puerto Rican cultural parade is in New York City, other cities with large Puerto Rican populations also have notable Puerto Rican parades and festivals, such as Philadelphia, Chicago, and Boston.\n\nThe first Puerto Rican Day Parade was held on Sunday, April 13, 1958, in Manhattan, replacing the former Hispanic Day Parade. This move, part of the mission of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York (esp., Cardinal Spellman and Ivan Illich) represented a shift away from earlier attempts at \"Yankeefication\" toward culturally specific expressions based on traditional \"fiestas patronales\". In 1995, the parade became incorporated as the National Puerto Rican Day Parade and expanded beyond the parade venue itself. The parade now hosts over seven major events throughout the city.\n\nThere are dozens of other events that also take place the weekend of the parade that are not sponsored by the National Parade's corporation. One of the longest running is the street fair held one day prior to the parade. Though the size has changed over the years the heart of the parade has always been at 116th Street between Lexington and Second Avenues. In addition to the parade in New York City, there are currently over fifty smaller parades that take place throughout the United States.\n\nThe parade has attracted many New York politicians including mayor Michael Bloomberg, former mayor Rudy Giuliani, Governor Andrew Cuomo and Senator Charles Schumer, as well as many political candidates running for office and looking for voters in local, state and national elections. In recent years, the parade has honored several Puerto Rican celebrities by naming them \"International Grand Marshal\" of the parade including singer Marc Anthony, who participated in the parade along with his ex-wife Jennifer Lopez, and Ricky Martin in 2007 and 2010.\n\nIn 2009, organizers selected internationally recognized telenovela actor Osvaldo Ríos, as the parade's \"Special Guest Star\".\n\nIn addition to a National Grand Marshal, a variety of honorees are named for the parade, with titles such as \"King\", \"National Ambassador of La Salsa\", and \"National Godmother\". In June 2004, Puerto Rican rapper Ivy Queen was designated as the \"Puerto Rico Youth Godmother\" of the parade. Others to be given such titles include Wisin & Yandel and Willie Colón.\n\nThe parade itself has been featured in an episode of the NBC situation comedy \"Seinfeld\" titled \"The Puerto Rican Day\". In it, Jerry Seinfeld, George Costanza, Elaine Benes, and Cosmo Kramer get stuck in a traffic jam as a result of the parade. Due to controversy relating to a scene in which Kramer accidentally burns and then stomps on a Puerto Rican flag and is chased by a mob of angry Puerto Ricans, NBC refused to air the episode again. The episode was also withheld from syndication as a result, but has been shown sparingly in syndicated repeats since 2002 and has been released on DVD along with all of the sitcom's episodes.\n\nThe parade was portrayed in a negative aspect following the controversial 2000 parade in a 2001 episode of the long-running NBC crime series \"Law & Order\" titled \"Sunday in the Park with Jorge\". Before the National Puerto Rican Coalition protested the episode, network executives issued an apology. The company also made a pledge to \"improve our procedures regarding sensitive programming issues\".\n\nThe 1994, Latin American literary classic \"Empire of Dreams\" by Giannina Braschi staged a revolution on the Puerto Rican Day Parade.\n\nThe parade has been referenced on the Tru TV show \"Impractical Jokers\" within multiple episodes, satirically introduced as a joke about castmember Sal Vulcano's heritage, which is Cuban, but often mistaken for Mexican or Puerto Rican.\n\nDuring recent years, the presence of gangs such as the Latin Kings, the Bloods and the Crips have been recorded at the event. Following the parade on June 11, 2000, a number of women were harassed, robbed and sexually assaulted by mobs of young men in and about Central Park. The attacks, which were videotaped by onlookers, led to the arrest and prosecution of many of those involved.\n\nManuel Vargas, a Dominican American who was a suspected ringleader, was quoted by the press as saying he \"was just having fun.\"\n\nIn June 2010, controversy arose after organizers selected telenovela actor Osvaldo Ríos, who served three months in a Puerto Rican prison in 2004 for assaulting his former girlfriend after a domestic-violence incident as the parade's \"International Godfather\". Many confirmed participants such as U.S. Representative Luis Guiterrez and corporate sponsors such as Verizon withdrew their participation and endorsements due to his controversial past. After mounting pressure from both the media, politicians, public officials, and domestic violence organizations, Rios decided to not attend the parade after discussing the matter with his children and U.S. Congresswoman Nydia Velasquez. He was replaced at the last minute by singer Marc Anthony, who was accompanied by his then wife Jennifer Lopez.\n\nIn past interviews, actor and comedian John Leguizamo had always claimed Puerto Rican ancestry via his father's side, which was one of the reasons that he was selected as the 2011 Puerto Rican Day Parade Global Ambassador of the Arts. On June 10, 2011, Leguizamo's father, Albert, declared in an interview published in \"El Diario La Prensa\", the largest Spanish-language newspaper in New York, that he was not Puerto Rican - but rather, of Colombian ancestry. This contradicted his son's past claims of Puerto Rican ancestry. In response to his father's allegations, Leguizamo stated in an interview that his \"grandfather\" was of Puerto Rican descent.\n\nA spokesman for the National Puerto Rican Day Parade stated that despite his shifting ancestry, Leguizamo would not be stripped of his ambassadorship, and would be allowed to participate in the June 2011 parade.\n\nThe theme of the 2015 parade had a strong historical focus. The year 2015 marks the 50th anniversary of the death of Pedro Albizu Campos, who spent 25 years in prison and dedicated his entire life to the independence of Puerto Rico.\n\n2017 parade organizers chose to honor Oscar López Rivera, who was one of the leaders of the Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN) which the FBI classified as a terrorist organization, but who others considered a freedom fighter for the Puerto Rican cause for independence. As a result of López Rivera being honored, Goya Foods chose not be a parade sponsor, and Jet Blue dropped their sponsorship as well. New York City Police Department's Hispanic Society did not march, as well as NYPD's Gay Officer Action League and NYPD Police Commissioner James O'Neill. Additional sponsors to withdraw from the parade include Coca-Cola, AT&T, and the New York Yankees. Puerto Rican salsa singer Willie Colón criticized the parade organizers as having gone too far, while six-time Grammy Award-winning Puerto Rican salsa singer Gilberto Santa Rosa himself led the parade procession.\n\nAfter public and corporate backlash, Mayor de Blasio had announced that López Rivera would not be honored at the 2017 parade as López Rivera wished to keep the focus on Puerto Rico rather than himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "33631950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33631950", "title": "Ragtime (musical)", "text": "Ragtime (musical)\n\nRagtime is a musical with a book by Terrence McNally, lyrics by Lynn Ahrens, and music by Stephen Flaherty. The music includes marches, cakewalks, gospel and ragtime.\n\nBased on the 1975 novel by E. L. Doctorow, \"Ragtime\" tells the story of three groups in the United States in the early 20th century: African Americans, represented by Coalhouse Walker Jr., a Harlem musician; upper-class suburbanites, represented by Mother, the matriarch of a white upper-class family in New Rochelle, New York; and Eastern European immigrants, represented by Tateh, a Jewish immigrant from Latvia.\n\nHistorical figures including Harry Houdini, Evelyn Nesbit, Booker T. Washington, J. P. Morgan, Henry Ford, Stanford White, Harry Kendall Thaw, Admiral Peary, Matthew Henson, and Emma Goldman are represented in the stories.\n\nThe musical had its world premiere in Toronto, where it opened at the Ford Centre for the Performing Arts (later renamed the Toronto Centre for the Arts) on December 8, 1996, produced by Canadian impresario Garth Drabinsky and his Livent Inc., the Toronto-production company he headed. The US premiere was at the Shubert Theatre, Los Angeles in June 1997. The musical opened on Broadway on January 18, 1998 as the first production in the newly opened Ford Center for the Performing Arts. Directed by Frank Galati and choreographed by Graciela Daniele, \"Ragtime\" closed on January 16, 2000 after 834 performances and 27 previews. The original cast included Brian Stokes Mitchell, Marin Mazzie, Peter Friedman and Audra McDonald, who were all nominated for Tony Awards, and also included Judy Kaye, Mark Jacoby and Lea Michele. The production was conducted by David Loud.\n\nThe production received mixed reviews, with critics noting that the dazzling physical production (with a $10 million budget, including fireworks and a working Model T automobile) overshadowed problems in the script. Ben Brantley's review in \"The New York Times\" was headlined \"A diorama with nostalgia rampant.\" It led the 1998 Tony Awards with thirteen Tony Award nominations, but Disney's \"The Lion King\" won as Best Musical. The musical won awards for Best Featured Actress (McDonald), Original Score, Book, and Orchestrations. According to \"The New York Times\", \"The chief competition for \"The Lion King\" was \"Ragtime\", a lavish musical.\" The \"New York Times\" also noted that \"The season was an artistic success as well, creating one of the most competitive Tony contests in years, with a battle in almost every category capped by the titanic struggle for the best musical award between \"Ragtime\" with 13 nominations and \"The Lion King\" with 11.\" The Broadway production was not financially successful, and some Broadway insiders consider its lavish production to have been the financial \"undoing\" of Livent.\n\nFollowing its European premiere in a concert performance at the Cardiff International Festival of Musical Theatre in 2002 (which was later telecast on BBC Four), the musical was produced in the West End, London, by Sonia Friedman at the Piccadilly Theatre for a Limited Run from 19 March 2003 - 14 June 2003. This production starred Maria Friedman in the role of Mother, for which she won the 2004 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical.\n\nThe musical theatre company BærMuDa premiered the first Scandinavian production on January 18, 2018, coincidentally on the day of the musical's twenty year anniversary of the first night on Broadway. It was also the first time the musical was performed in a foreign language. The production was directed by Renate Stridh, and the cast featured Mimmi Tamba (Sarah), Marvin Charles Cummings (Coalhouse Walker, Jr.), Kristin Rinde (Mother), Christian Ranke (Tateh), Kristian Grønvold (Younger Brother), Lars Arne Rinde (Father), Marianne Snekkestad/Cecilie Due (Emma Goldman) and Trine Eide Schjølberg/Ida Rinde Sunde (Evelyn Nesbit). It was translated by Christian Ranke and Cecilie Due.\n\nThe scene design was inspired by the suitcases on display at the Ellis Island immigrant museum. The production used a scaled down version of William D. Brohn's original orchestrations.\n\nA new production opened at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, DC, on April 18, 2009, and ran through May 17, 2009, with direction and choreography by Marcia Milgrom Dodge.\nThe production then moved to Broadway at the Neil Simon Theatre, with previews beginning on October 23, 2009 and the show officially opened on November 15, 2009. The cast featured Stephanie Umoh (Sarah), Quentin Earl Darrington (Coalhouse Walker, Jr.), Christiane Noll (Mother), Robert Petkoff (Tateh), Bobby Steggert (Younger Brother), Donna Migliaccio (Emma Goldman) and Ron Bohmer (Father). This was the first Broadway revival of the musical and the first Broadway revival of any 1990s musical. The production opened to critical acclaim but closed on January 10, 2010 after 28 previews and 65 performances. This production had a large cast and orchestra, resulting in a significant weekly running cost that demanded the show be a popular success in order to prove financially worthwhile. \"There had been rumors in recent weeks that the show would not be able to survive into early 2010; there was apparently not enough of an advance sale to encourage the producers.\" Despite the closing, the production received seven Tony Award nominations, including Best Revival of Musical, Best Direction, Best Actress in Musical, and Best Featured Actor in a Musical. One nomination, for Costume Design, was withdrawn on the basis that the designs were substantially similar to those of a prior production.\n\nThe Regent's Park Open Air Theatre played a revival of the musical from May 18 to September 8, 2012. This production was directed by Artistic Director Timothy Sheader. The cast featured Claudia Kariuki (Sarah), Rolan Bell (Coalhouse Walker, Jr.), Rosalie Craig (Mother), John Marquez (Tateh), Harry Hepple (Younger Brother), Tamsin Carroll (Emma Goldman) and David Birrell (Father).\n\nThe Charing Cross Theatre played a revival of the musical from October 8 until December 10, 2016, and directed by Thom Southerland. The actor-musician production featured Earl Carpenter (Father), Anita Louise Combe (Mother), Jonathan Stewart (Younger Brother), Ako Mitchell (Coalhouse Walker, Jr.), Jennifer Saayeng (Sarah) and Gary Tushaw (Tateh).\n\nManhattan Concert Productions presented a one-night only concert of the musical on February 18, 2013 at the Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, directed by Stafford Arima. The cast featured Lea Salonga (Mother), Patina Miller (Sarah), Norm Lewis (Coalhouse Walker, Jr.), Tyne Daly (Emma Goldman), Kerry Butler (Evelyn Nesbitt), Howard McGillin (Father), Michael Arden (Younger Brother) and Manoel Felciano (Tateh).\n\nA \"developmental concert\" of the musical was presented on Ellis Island on August 8, 2016. The concert is directed by Sammi Cannold, and featured Brian Stokes Mitchell as the narrator, Laura Michelle Kelly as Mother, Andy Mientus as Younger Brother, Brandon Victor Dixon as Coalhouse Walker Jr., Michael Park as Father, Shaina Taub as Emma Goldman, Aisha Jackson as Sarah and Robert Petkoff reprising his 2009 Broadway revival role of Tateh. An immersive, full production is anticipated in 2017. In March 2018, the team that was behind the developmental concert will hold a sound workshop with sound designer Nick Tipp to explore the use of in ear monitoring technology for audience members. This would mean that in a full production on Ellis Island, all the audio that the audience would normally hear through traditional sound systems would be live-mixed into wireless headphones worn by each audience member. The director Sammi Cannold told Broadway World that “While the workshop is of course focused on material from Ragtime, our team is also excited by the potential applications of this approach to other site-specific musicals in locations where it's impossible to use traditional sound systems.” \n\nThis production was also featured on an episode of the Working in the Theatre series run by the American Theatre Wing.\n\n2012 Shaw Festival\n\nThe Shaw Festival, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario, presented \"Ragtime\" in 2012 in its Festival Theatre as part of its 51st season, from April 10 through October 14, 2012. The production was directed by Shaw Festival Artistic Director Jackie Maxwell. The role of Coalhouse Walker was played by Thom Allison, with Alana Hibbert as Sarah, Jay Turvey as Tateh, and Patty Jamieson as Mother.\n\n2014 Westchester Broadway\n\nStanding Ovation Studios presented \"Ragtime the Musical\" at the Westchester Broadway Theater February 27 to May 4, 2014.\n\n2017 Seattle\n\nSeattle's 5th Avenue Theatre presented a new version of \"Ragtime\" in October 2017, based on a streamlined production from Theatre Latte Da in Minneapolis, directed by Peter Rothstein. It has a stripped-down cast of only 16 actors, whereby leading actors also portray the ensemble/chorus.\n2018 Providence\n\nProvidence's Trinity Repertory Company presented \"Ragtime\" in May 2018, directed by Curt Columbus, with Wilkie Ferguson III as Coalhouse Walker, Jr. Mia Ellis as Sarah, Charlie Thurston as Tateh, and Rachael Warren as Mother.\n\nAct One\n\nThe musical introduces the American experience at the turn of the 20th century through the eyes of three different facets of society, in the New York City area. The first is an upper-class white family from New Rochelle—Mother, Father, Mother's Younger Brother, Grandfather, and the Little Boy, Edgar. Theirs is a genteel, sheltered atmosphere, far from the bustle of Harlem, where the African-American community, including a beautiful young woman named Sarah, explores a new kind of music pioneered by a pianist named Coalhouse Walker Jr. Meanwhile, immigrants from all parts of the globe set out to seek better lives in the tenements of the Lower East Side, among them Tateh, a Jewish artist from Latvia, and his young daughter. These three disparate worlds are connected only by celebrities: tycoons such as J.P. Morgan and Henry Ford, activists such as Booker T. Washington and Emma Goldman, and entertainers such as Harry Houdini and Evelyn Nesbit, who has been catapulted into fame by the murder of her wealthy lover Stanford White by her millionaire husband Harry K. Thaw. As the century dawns, the separate worlds of New York City begin to blur together (“Prologue—Ragtime”).\n\nMother and her Family say goodbye to Father as he embarks on Robert Peary's expedition to the North Pole. He asks Mother to oversee his affairs, her first experience with any kind of independence. He assures her that nothing will change in his absence but Mother, feeling adrift without dreams of her own, hopes differently (“Goodbye, My Love”). On board Admiral Peary's ship, Father encounters the ship's First Officer, Matthew Henson, and is shocked to find he is a black man. He catches a glimpse of the rag ship carrying Tateh and his Little Girl to America and waves at the immigrants, who he cynically imagines \"don't have a chance\" in America. Tateh, incredulous anyone would want to leave such a wonderful country as America, returns the hail, while Mother, back on shore, also wishes Father a safe passage (“Journey On”).\n\nMother's Younger Brother, an intense, awkward young man, is consistently in search of something fulfilling in life, and his latest obsession is Evelyn Nesbit. He takes a regular seat in the balcony of the vaudeville theatre where Evelyn performs her act, a risqué parody of her husband's murder trial (“Crime of the Century”). After the show ends, Younger Brother confesses his love to Evelyn. She kisses him, but only for the benefit of a press photographer, cheerfully rejecting him once he has served his purpose.\n\nBack at the family's home in New Rochelle, Mother discovers a black newborn baby who has been buried alive in her garden. The police arrive with Sarah, the baby's mother, and on an impulse Mother takes responsibility for both Sarah and her child. She marvels both at her newfound compassion and at the realization that her husband would never have allowed her to make such a decision were he present (“What Kind of Woman”).\n\nAt Ellis Island, the immigrants arrive at their new home (“A Shtetl Iz Amereke”). Tateh eagerly begins his new life, drawing silhouettes and selling them from a street corner cart, but he quickly finds the American Dream not so readily accessible. Emma Goldman attempts to get him to join the Socialist movement, but he is determined to leave politics alone. The Little Girl grows ill and Tateh rapidly becomes destitute. A low point comes when a wealthy stranger offers to buy the Little Girl from him, and he snaps, cursing his new country. Inspired by the success of immigrant magician Harry Houdini, Tateh resolves to sell his cart and begin again somewhere else (“Success”).\n\nThe people of Harlem dance to Coalhouse's music (“His Name Was Coalhouse”) and he sings of his lost love, Sarah. Having discovered where she is, Coalhouse embarks on a plan to win back her affections (“Gettin' Ready Rag”), culminating in a visit to Henry Ford's factory for a brand new Model T, and the inventor himself proudly explains his system of automated production (“Henry Ford”).\n\nBack in New Rochelle, Mother and Edgar wait for the trolley to New York City and meet Tateh and the Little Girl, who are heading to Boston. To set an example for her son, who is staring rudely at them, Mother surprises Tateh by engaging him in polite conversation (“Nothing Like the City”). On his way to find Sarah in New Rochelle, Coalhouse encounters a volunteer fire squad, led by chief Will Conklin, who react with hostility to the sight of a black man driving his own car. Meanwhile, Sarah sings to her son in the attic of their new home (“Your Daddy's Son”), attempting to explain how her heartbreak, fear and despair led her to make such a terrible decision.\n\nCoalhouse arrives at the Family's door on his quest to find and win back Sarah. He is stunned to learn of her child's existence and when she refuses to see him, he resolves to return the following Sunday. This continues for some time (“The Courtship”), and eventually Mother invites him inside for a refreshment. He tells her of his career as a musician and his plans to support his family. Father returns home from the North Pole to find Coalhouse playing ragtime in the Family's parlor. He is stunned by the unexpected and unorthodox changes to his household, and he finds Mother unsympathetic to his complaints. He reflects on how much he has missed and how unsure he is of the world, but Mother and Younger Brother have embraced the changes. Hearing Coalhouse's music, Sarah finally descends to forgive him, and the lovers are joyfully reunited (“New Music”).\n\nCoalhouse takes Sarah on an idyllic picnic, where he tells her of his hopes for the future, inspired by the words of Booker T. Washington. With their son in their arms, the pair sing about the promise this country offers their baby boy (“Wheels of a Dream”).\n\nEmma Goldman speaks passionately in a Worker's Hall, promoting the textile mills strike in Lawrence, Massachusetts, where mill workers, including Tateh and his daughter, are suffering at the hands of the national militia called in to settle the strike. Younger Brother takes respite from the cold inside the rally and finds inspiration, imagining Goldman is speaking directly to him (“The Night That Goldman Spoke at Union Square”). The rally descends into a riot as Goldman is arrested, which mirrors the chaos in Lawrence. Tateh, participating in the strike, is attempting to evacuate his daughter to safety, but he is struck by a policeman and they are separated. At the last moment he leaps on the train to accompany her out of Lawrence. As she sobs, terrified at the violence, Tateh calms her by showing her his newest invention: a flip book of moving silhouettes. The conductor of the train they are on offers to buy the book and Tateh, hurriedly dubbing it a \"moviebook\", sells it to him for a dollar. Recognizing that he has a product people will buy, Tateh celebrates his first chance at real success and resolves never to look back (“Gliding”).\n\nReturning home from their picnic, Coalhouse and Sarah are stopped by Will Conklin and his volunteer fire squad. Conklin demands a toll be paid in exchange for passage but Coalhouse will not yield to the injustice. As Booker T. Washington gives a lecture advocating patience and dignity in the black community, the firemen destroy the Model T and roll it into a lake (“The Trashing of the Car”). Incensed, Coalhouse seeks justice but the system has none to offer (“Justice”). Furious and determined to keep his dignity, Coalhouse postpones his marriage to Sarah until his car is restored, which prompts her to seek justice on his behalf. She hears of a campaign rally in New Rochelle and goes in the hopes that the vice-presidential candidate will be able to help (“President”). However, she is mistaken for a would-be assassin by JP Morgan and beaten to death by the Secret Service. At her funeral, grief and anger overtake her mourners, who alternatively demand an end to such injustice and pray for the day when all people will have justice and equality. As Mother, Father, Tateh and Emma Goldman look on, Coalhouse collapses by Sarah's grave (“Till We Reach That Day”).\n\nAct Two\n\nIn a dream sequence, The Little Boy watches Harry Houdini perform a daring escape act in which he is locked in a dynamite-laden box by Will Conklin. The box explodes, and although Houdini emerges smiling from the audience, the little boy wakes up screaming from his nightmare (\"Harry Houdini, Master Escapist\"). He yells for his mother, proclaiming that something bad is going to happen. He is proved correct when a volunteer firehouse is bombed and several firemen are killed.\n\nAfter Sarah's death, Coalhouse vows to get justice on his own terms (“Coalhouse's Soliloquy”). He terrorizes New Rochelle, killing several firemen and bombing a volunteer firehouse while posting demands that his car be restored and returned to him, and that Will Conklin be delivered into his hands. Booker T. Washington condemns Coalhouse's actions but many angry young men are drawn to his cause (“Coalhouse Demands”). The family stands at the center of the scandal as Mother retains custody of Sarah and Coalhouse's baby. Father blames her for bringing this turmoil into their lives, but Younger Brother furiously lambasts him for his blindness. He storms out of the house. Mother is becoming increasingly irritated by Father's actions, and encourages him to explain to their son what is happening. Instead, Father invites Edgar to a baseball game, an act that earns him his wife's open scorn. He expects it to be the genteel, respectful game he played in college, and is horrified to find himself in the middle of a rowdy crowd of immigrants and drunks (“What a Game”).\n\nFather's attempt at distraction is not enough to keep at bay the effects of Coalhouse's demands and acts of violence (“Fire in the City”). As the outside world bears down on the family, Father decides to move them all to Atlantic City where there is the promise of an escape from the worries of New York (“Atlantic City”). Upon their arrival, the family encounter a film crew taking shots of the boardwalk, directed by none other than Tateh, who has re-invented himself as \"the Baron Ashkenazy\", a pioneering director and producer of moving pictures (“Buffalo Nickel Photoplay, Inc.”). Also present in Atlantic City are Evelyn Nesbit, whose career is now in a downward spiral, and Harry Houdini, who is recovering from the loss of his beloved mother by delving into the supernatural. When he encounters Edgar on the street, the young boy urges Houdini to \"warn the Duke\" before running off. Edgar and the Little Girl soon become fast friends, prompting the growth of a friendship between Mother and Tateh. Together they marvel in how simple and profound children's lives are, and he confesses to her his humble origins, an act of trust that touches her greatly (“Our Children”).\n\nBack in Harlem, Younger Brother seeks out Coalhouse but is repeatedly turned away until Coalhouse is convinced that he can be trusted. As one of Coalhouse's men leads Younger Brother to the Gang's hideout, Coalhouse, who has banished music from his life, watches a carefree young couple (\"Harlem Nightclub\") and remembers his first encounter with Sarah (“Sarah Brown Eyes”). Once Younger Brother arrives, he is unable to articulate why he wants to join the fight. The men's profound thoughts are narrated by Emma Goldman, but instead he merely tells Coalhouse \"I know how to blow things up.\" (“He Wanted to Say”).\n\nCoalhouse and his men, including Younger Brother, take over J.P. Morgan's magnificent library in the heart of New York City and threaten to blow it up. Father informs Mother that he's been summoned to New York to help reason with Coalhouse. Before he goes, he assures her that everything will soon return to the way it was, but Mother has changed too much to allow that to happen (“Back to Before”). Upon his arrival at the tense police encampment around the library, Father suggests that Coalhouse may listen to Booker T. Washington. Coalhouse allows Washington to enter the library but remains unreachable until Washington mentions the legacy Coalhouse is leaving his son. Coalhouse and Washington work out a deal for peaceful surrender but Younger Brother is enraged by Coalhouse's abandonment of their cause (“Look What You've Done”).\n\nWashington leaves and Father enters the library as a hostage. The change in his life that he has been so forcefully trying to ignore finally manages to squeeze into his heart as Coalhouse convinces Younger Brother and his men that violence will not solve injustice. Coalhouse charges them all to change society through the power of their words and by telling their children their story (“Make Them Hear You”). Profoundly affected by their leader's sacrifice, Younger Brother and the Gang leave the Morgan Library peacefully while Father tells Coalhouse about his son. Coalhouse thanks Father for his kindness and, as he leaves the library, is shot and killed by the police.\n\nEdgar takes on the task of fulfilling Coalhouse's wishes that their story be told. The company returns to tell us the conclusion of each of their own stories: Younger Brother departs for Mexico to fight alongside Emiliano Zapata. Emma Goldman is arrested and deported. Booker T. Washington establishes the Tuskegee Institute, while Evelyn Nesbitt fades into obscurity. Harry Houdini realizes upon the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand that Edgar's warning was the one truly mystical experience of his life. Father is killed when the RMS Lusitania is sunk, and after a year of mourning, Mother marries Tateh. They adopt Coalhouse and Sarah's son, naming him Coalhouse Walker III, and move to California. Watching his children play, Tateh is struck by an idea for a film series centering on a group of children of different races and classes banding together. The Era of Ragtime may be over, but as the united family is watched by the spirits of Coalhouse and Sarah, America continues to assimilate and flourish (“Epilogue: Ragtime/Wheels of a Dream: Reprise”).\n\n\nThe Tony Award-winning orchestration of \"Ragtime\", by William David Brohn is for twenty-six musicians:\n\n\nIn the original West End production, the fourth reed, bass trombone and harp parts were removed and the banjo player does not double on guitar or mandolin. The 2009 revival switched the doublings for the second and fourth woodwind parts. The fourth woodwind part in the original Broadway production had doublings for flute, bass clarinet, soprano sax, and alto sax.\n\n"}
{"id": "11041686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11041686", "title": "Rebellion of mayor Albert", "text": "Rebellion of mayor Albert\n\nThe Rebellion of mayor Albert () was an uprising by the burghers of the Polish city of Kraków against the duke Władysław I the Elbow-high in the years 1311–12. The mutiny was led by Albert, the vogt (, ) who was effectively a mayor of the town under Magdeburg Law. It ended with the duke (later king) Władysław's victory. \n\nAfter Kraków had been devastated during the 1241 Mongol invasion of Poland, it was re-established according to Magdeburg Law by Prince Bolesław V the Chaste. In 1291 the Duchy of Kraków fell to the Přemyslid king Wenceslaus II of Bohemia who in 1300 also became King of Poland. Upon the extinction of the Přemyslids in 1306, the Piast duke Władysław I the Elbow-high assumed the rule at Kraków, while in 1310 the Bohemian Kingdom passed to the House of Luxembourg. The new king, John of Bohemia, continued to claim the Polish royal title and moreover sought to vassalize the Piast dukes of the adjacent Silesian region.\n\nIn 1311 wójt Albert (?-1317), mayor of Kraków (1290-1312), instigated a mutiny against Prince Władysław, with the goal of turning the city – then the capital of the Polish Seniorate Province – over to the Bohemian House of Luxembourg. Albert, himself of German or Czech origin, had the support of some of the city's German burghers. He also had the support of Bishop Jan Muskata, himself of German-Silesian origin, and the Silesian duke Bolko I of Opole, as well as of many Kraków citizens. After Władysław laid siege to the city, the revolt ended in failure. Similar rebellions took place in several other cities, particularly Sandomierz and Wieliczka; these were also crushed by Władysław.\n\nAlbert fled to Bohemia and his house was demolished, while the Polish Primate Archbishop Jakub Świnka of Gniezno charged Bishop Muskata with being \"an enemy of the Polish people\". In the aftermath the city of Kraków lost many of its privileges due to the support some of its burghers gave to the uprising. From Prince Władysław's point of view the revolt had been motivated by anti-Polish sentiment and the German citizens proved disloyal. He reacted with brutality, culminating in the implementation of the shibboleth \"Soczewica, koło, miele, młyn\" (\"Lentil, wheel, grinds (verb), mill) to distinguish the German-speaking minority of Kraków. \n\nThe uprising was chronicled in a contemporary Latin poem \"De quodam advocate Cracoviensi Alberto\" (\"About a Certain Reeve Albert of Kraków\") written by an anonymous author.\n"}
{"id": "21716308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21716308", "title": "Rey de Reyes (2009)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (2009)\n\nThe Rey de Reyes 2009 (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was a major annual professional wrestling show that also hosted that year's version of the Rey de Reyes tournament, produced by the Mexican wrestling promotion AAA. Rey de Reyes 2009 was a major professional wrestling event produced by AAA, which took place on March 15, 2009 at the Plaza de Toros Nuevo Progresso Bullfighting arena in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. The event was the 13th event produced under the Rey de Reyes name and also the 13th time that the Rey de Reyes tournament was held. Electroshock won the tournament, while El Mesias successfully defended the AAA Mega Championship against Chessman. The event also saw the surprise debuts of Marco Corleone and Dr. Wagner Jr. as well as the surprise return of Juventud Guerrera to the promotion.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company AAA has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 2009 show was the 13th Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured nine professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nThe full list of participants in the \"Rey de Reyes\" tournament was announced over a couple of weeks leading up to the show. With 16 names it followed the traditional tournament format of qualifying rounds early in the evening and a 4-way elimination match as the final. the full announced list of participants announced were: Silver King, Alan Stone, Octagón, Super Fly, Black Abyss, Escoria, Abismo Negro, Electroshock, Joe Lider, Dark Ozz, Latin Lover, Nicho \"El Millonario\", El Elegido, La Parka, Psycho Clown, and Super Porky. Group one: Abismon Negro, Latin Lover, Dark Ozz and Black Abyss. Group two: El Elegido, Alan Stone, Silver King and Joe Lider. Group three: Octagón, Super Fly, Electroshock and Nicho \"El Millonario\". Group four: La Parka, Super Porky, Dark Escoria and Psycho Clown. In the days leading up to the event it was announced that Psycho Clown had been replaced by Kenzo Suzuki without any explanation.\n\nAnother match scheduled for the show was a match where Konnan would face off against a wrestler of Joaquin Roldan's choosing with the special \"Lucha de Apuestas\" (\"Bet fight\") wager being the hair of Joaquin Roldan against the hair of Konnan's associate Arturo Rivera. This match is a result of the very long running storyline between the AAA loyalists and Konnan's La Legión Extranjera (Foreign Legion). At the 2008 Antonio Peña Memorial show the storyline saw Konnan win the ownership of AAA from the Roldan family. Since winning the ownership several vignettes were aired showing Konnan and La Legión taking over the offices of AAA, further promoting the storyline that Konnan really was in charge of the federation. In the beginning of 2009 rumors of embesselment began to spread after AAA commentator wrote an article in the newspaper \"Recórd\" where he stated that former AAA owner Joaquin Rolando and AAA Chief Financial Officer Marisela Peña had requested that an American accountant firm audit the books of AAA. Upset with the allegations \"La Legión\" loyalist Arturo Rivera, AAA's other commentator, defended Konnan on air leading to Joaquin Roldano returning to the spotlight for the first time after losing control of the company in November, 2008. During Roldano's in-ring promo Arturo Rivera interrupted him and attacked him. After the two were pulled apart Rivera challenged Roldano to a hair vs. hair match where each picked a wrestler to represent themselves. Rivera picked Konnan to represent him. On February 26 it was announced that Joaquin Roldano had chosen AAA Commissioner Vampiro Canadienese to represent him in the match.\n\nThe next featured contest was a AAA Mega Championship match between champion El Mesias and challenger Chessman. The scripted feud started during a television taping where Chessman and El Mesias faced off in a wrestling match, the match got so out of hand that Chessman ended up being thrown over the side of the balcony and through a stack of tables. The show went to commercial with Chessman looking seriously injured as he received medical treatment. The following week another singles match between the two was scheduled but Chessman came out on crutches wearing a neck brace. Just as El Mesias though Chessman was going to announce that he was too injured to wrestle Chessman attacked him with a crutch revealing that the injury was nothing but a ruse to give Chessman an advantage as he quickly pinned the champion in their non-title match. At the final television taping before Rey de Reyes AAA \"owner\" Konnan changed a match that was supposed to see El Mesias team with Vampiro to take on Chessman and Konnan to a handicap match, stating that Vampiro was not allowed to wrestle that night and turned the match into a handicap match. After Chessman and Konnan won the match the rest of \"La Legión\" came to the ring to beat down El Mesias, teasing that Chessman may have joined La Legión Extranjera but not confirming it.\n\nAnother non-tournament match on the card was originally billed as \"Radical Hell Brothers\" and was supposed to feature Charly Manson and El Zorro facing off in a tag team partner where each wrestler had a \"Surprise partner\" that would not be announced until the time of the match. Charly Manson recently returned from an injury that forced him to sit out for 10 months and immediately came to the rescue of the AAA fan favorites when \"La Legión Extranjera\" attacked them. Three days later at another television taping Manson made his in ring return, teaming with Latin Lover and X-Pac to defeat Konnan, Electroshock and El Zorro. In the week before the show the booking of this match was changed so that instead of featuring surprise partners Charly Manson would team up with D-Generation-Mex members X-Pac and Alex Koslov, while El Zorro would team up with The Hart Foundation 2.0 (Teddy Hart and Jack Evans). It had originally been AAA's intent to have Cibernético return to the promotion and team up with Manson but when negotiations between the two parts broke down the scheduled match was changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "7402116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7402116", "title": "Rock al Parque", "text": "Rock al Parque\n\nRock al Parque is a rock music festival which, since 1995, has taken place in Bogotá, Colombia. Entry to the festival is free of charge. In 2004, 400,000 people took part in the event. It is considered the largest rock festival in Colombia and one of the most important in Latin America, arguably the largest free rock festival in the continent. It has ska, punk, hardcore, metal, and other genres included in its program.\n\nThe first edition of this festival happened in 1995. It started as a continuation of the 'Youth Music meetings' held at the city's Planetarium in 1992. The people behind the organization were Mario Duarte and Julio Correal. The initial purpose was to gain the support of Bogota's Institute of Culture and Tourism, to establish it. The first edition of this festival happened during May 26 and 29, 1995, within several venues. To mention them, the most representative one known as 'La Media Torta', The Simón Bolívar Park, the 'Olaya Herrera's Stadium, and 'the Santa María Bullfighting' Ring. This last one was the only venue requesting admission fees for participants. Therefore, after 1996, the festival organisers decided to exclude this last venue, \"the Santa María Bullfighting Ring\", in order to feature the festival \"free of charge for admission\" since.\n\nThe festival, which originally only included rock music, gradually opened up its doors to promote other genres, such as punk, reggae, ska and blues musicians. Due to the increase in diversity, the festival's organizers started scheduling bands so that different types of musicians could participate alongside one another, as opposed to grouping acts by genre.\n\nNowadays the festival takes place over three days at Bogotá's Simon Bolivar Park. The festival is broadcast live over Canal Capital, a local public television channel, and Radiónica, a public radio network.\n\nThe sale of alcohol at Rock al Parque is prohibited, as is smoking, despite the fact that the event takes place outdoors. Concertgoers are not allowed entry if they are wearing belts with metallic buckles, as these can be used as weapons. Furthermore, all concertgoers have to go through a routine security inspection before entering the concert grounds, and may even be asked to remove their shoes and socks if need be. Concerts are scheduled between 1:00 and 10:00 p.m.\n\nThe festival features national and international bands of different genres. After 1997, artists were selected by a jury after an open multi-stage process (pre-selection, presentation and live auditions). As an incentive, the chosen bands win prizes, as well as the opportunity to share the stage with international bands. Sometimes, acts are invited by the organizing committee directly. Up to year 2009 there have been 473 artists and 3,092,000 people. The third edition of the festival in 1997, had the largest number of participants, with 87 bands. On the other hand, the eighth edition, in 2002, had the fewest, with only 25. On average, 51.6 bands have performed annually at 'Rock al Parque'. The 2004 edition, which marked the festival's 10th anniversary, had over 400,000 spectators.\n\nArtists who have played during more than 20 years in rock the park\n\nThroughout the last 14 years this festival has played host to a number of groups representing different countries, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "170023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170023", "title": "Saint Patrick's Day", "text": "Saint Patrick's Day\n\nSaint Patrick's Day, or the Feast of Saint Patrick (, \"the Day of the Festival of Patrick\"), is a cultural and religious celebration held on 17 March, the traditional death date of Saint Patrick ( AD 385–461), the foremost patron saint of Ireland.\n\nSaint Patrick's Day was made an official Christian feast day in the early 17th century and is observed by the Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion (especially the Church of Ireland), the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Lutheran Church. The day commemorates Saint Patrick and the arrival of Christianity in Ireland, and celebrates the heritage and culture of the Irish in general. Celebrations generally involve public parades and festivals, cèilidhs, and the wearing of green attire or shamrocks. Christians who belong to liturgical denominations also attend church services and historically the Lenten restrictions on eating and drinking alcohol were lifted for the day, which has encouraged and propagated the holiday's tradition of alcohol consumption.\n\nSaint Patrick's Day is a public holiday in the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador (for provincial government employees), and the British Overseas Territory of Montserrat. It is also widely celebrated by the Irish diaspora around the world, especially in the United Kingdom, Canada, United States, Brazil, Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. Saint Patrick's Day is celebrated in more countries than any other national festival. Modern celebrations have been greatly influenced by those of the Irish diaspora, particularly those that developed in North America. In recent years, there has been criticism of Saint Patrick's Day celebrations for having become too commercialised and for fostering negative stereotypes of the Irish people.\n\nPatrick was a 5th-century Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland. Much of what is known about Saint Patrick comes from the \"Declaration\", which was allegedly written by Patrick himself. It is believed that he was born in Roman Britain in the fourth century, into a wealthy Romano-British family. His father was a deacon and his grandfather was a priest in the Christian church. According to the \"Declaration\", at the age of sixteen, he was kidnapped by Irish raiders and taken as a slave to Gaelic Ireland. It says that he spent six years there working as a shepherd and that during this time he \"found God\". The \"Declaration\" says that God told Patrick to flee to the coast, where a ship would be waiting to take him home. After making his way home, Patrick went on to become a priest.\n\nAccording to tradition, Patrick returned to Ireland to convert the pagan Irish to Christianity. The \"Declaration\" says that he spent many years evangelising in the northern half of Ireland and converted \"thousands\". Patrick's efforts against the druids were eventually turned into an allegory in which he drove \"snakes\" out of Ireland (Ireland never had any snakes).\n\nTradition holds that he died on 17 March and was buried at Downpatrick. Over the following centuries, many legends grew up around Patrick and he became Ireland's foremost saint.\n\nToday's St Patrick's Day celebrations have been greatly influenced by those that developed among the Irish diaspora, especially in North America. Until the late 20th century, St Patrick's Day was often a bigger celebration among the diaspora than it was in Ireland.\n\nCelebrations generally involve public parades and festivals, Irish traditional music sessions (céilithe), and the wearing of green attire or shamrocks. There are also formal gatherings such as banquets and dances, although these were more common in the past. St Patrick's Day parades began in North America in the 18th century but did not spread to Ireland until the 20th century. The participants generally include marching bands, the military, fire brigades, cultural organisations, charitable organisations, voluntary associations, youth groups, fraternities, and so on. However, over time, many of the parades have become more akin to a carnival. More effort is made to use the Irish language, especially in Ireland, where the week of St Patrick's Day is \"Irish language week\". Recently, famous landmarks have been lit up in green on St Patrick's Day.\n\nChristians may also attend church services, and the Lenten restrictions on eating and drinking alcohol are lifted for the day. Perhaps because of this, drinking alcohol – particularly Irish whiskey, beer, or cider – has become an integral part of the celebrations. The St Patrick's Day custom of \"drowning the shamrock\" or \"wetting the shamrock\" was historically popular, especially in Ireland. At the end of the celebrations, a shamrock is put into the bottom of a cup, which is then filled with whiskey, beer, or cider. It is then drunk as a toast to St Patrick, Ireland, or those present. The shamrock would either be swallowed with the drink or taken out and tossed over the shoulder for good luck.\n\nOn St Patrick's Day, it is customary to wear shamrocks, green clothing or green accessories. St Patrick is said to have used the shamrock, a three-leaved plant, to explain the Holy Trinity to the pagan Irish. This story first appears in writing in 1726, though it may be older. In pagan Ireland, three was a significant number and the Irish had many triple deities, a fact that may have aided St Patrick in his evangelisation efforts. Patricia Monaghan says there is no evidence that the shamrock was sacred to the pagan Irish. However, Jack Santino speculates that it may have represented the regenerative powers of nature, and was recast in a Christian contexticons of St Patrick often depict the saint \"with a cross in one hand and a sprig of shamrocks in the other\". Roger Homan writes, \"We can perhaps see St Patrick drawing upon the visual concept of the \"triskele\" when he uses the shamrock to explain the Trinity\".\n\nThe first association of the colour green with Ireland is from the 11th century pseudo-historical book Lebor Gabála Érenn (The Book of the Taking of Ireland), which forms part of the Mythological Cycle in Irish Mythology and describes the story of Goídel Glas who is credited as the eponymous ancestor of the Gaels and creator of the Goidelic languages (Irish, Scottish Gaelic, Manx). In the story Goídel Glas, who was the son of Scota and Niul, was bitten by a snake and was saved from death by Moses placing his staff on the snakebite. As a reminder of the incident he would retain a green mark that would stay with him and he would lead his people to a land that would be free of snakes. This is emphasized in his name Goídel which was anglicised to the word Gaelic and Glas which is the Irish word for green. Another story from the Lebor Gabála Érenn written after the adventures of Goídel Glas refers to Íth climbing the tower (in reference to the Tower of Hercules) his father Breogán builds in Brigantia (modern day Corunna in Galicia, Spain) on a winters day and is so captivated by the sight of a beautiful green island in the distance that he must set sail immediately. This story also introduces three national personifications of Ireland, Banba, Fódla and Ériu. The colour green was further associated with Ireland from the 1640s, when the green harp flag was used by the Irish Catholic Confederation. Green ribbons and shamrocks have been worn on St Patrick's Day since at least the 1680s. The Friendly Brothers of St Patrick, an Irish fraternity founded in about 1750, adopted green as its colour. However, when the Order of St. Patrick—an Anglo-Irish chivalric order—was founded in 1783 it adopted blue as its colour, which led to blue being associated with St Patrick. During the 1790s, green would become associated with Irish nationalism, due to its use by the United Irishmen. This was a republican organisation—led mostly by Protestants but with many Catholic members—who launched a rebellion in 1798 against British rule. The phrase \"wearing of the green\" comes from a song of the same name, which laments United Irishmen supporters being persecuted for wearing green. The late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries have seen the re-emergence of Irish cultural symbols, such as the Irish Language, Irish mythology, and the colour green, through the Gaelic Revival and the Irish Literary Revival which served to stir Irish nationalist sentiment. The influence of green was more prominently observable in the flags of the 1916 Easter Rising such as the Sunburst Flag, the Starry Plough Banner, and the Proclamation Flag of the Irish Republic which was flown over the General Post Office, Dublin together with the Irish Tricolour. Throughout these centuries, the colour green and its association with St Patrick's Day grew.\n\nThe wearing of the 'St Patrick's Day Cross' was also a popular custom in Ireland until the early 20th century. These were a Celtic Christian cross made of paper that was \"covered with silk or ribbon of different colours, and a bunch or rosette of green silk in the centre\".\n\nSaint Patrick's feast day, as a kind of national day, was already being celebrated by the Irish in Europe in the ninth and tenth centuries. In later times, he became more and more widely seen as the patron of Ireland. Saint Patrick's feast day was finally placed on the universal liturgical calendar in the Catholic Church due to the influence of Waterford-born Franciscan scholar Luke Wadding in the early 1600s. Saint Patrick's Day thus became a holy day of obligation for Roman Catholics in Ireland. It is also a feast day in the Church of Ireland, which is part of the worldwide Anglican Communion. The church calendar avoids the observance of saints' feasts during certain solemnities, moving the saint's day to a time outside those periods. St Patrick's Day is occasionally affected by this requirement, when 17 March falls during Holy Week. This happened in 1940, when Saint Patrick's Day was observed on 3 April to avoid it coinciding with Palm Sunday, and again in 2008, where it was officially observed on 15 March. St Patrick's Day will not fall within Holy Week again until 2160. However, the popular festivities may still be held on 17 March or on a weekend near to the feast day.\n\nIn 1903, St Patrick's Day became an official public holiday in Ireland. This was thanks to the Bank Holiday (Ireland) Act 1903, an act of the United Kingdom Parliament introduced by Irish Member of Parliament James O'Mara. O'Mara later introduced the law which required that public houses be shut on 17 March after drinking got out of hand, a provision that was repealed in the 1970s.\n\nThe first St Patrick's Day parade in Ireland was held in Waterford in 1903. The week of St Patrick's Day 1903 had been declared Irish Language Week by the Gaelic League and in Waterford they opted to have a procession on Sunday 15 March. The procession comprised the Mayor and members of Waterford Corporation, the Trades Hall, the various trade unions and bands who included the 'Barrack St Band' and the 'Thomas Francis Meagher Band'. The parade began at the premises of the Gaelic League in George's St and finished in the Peoples Park, where the public were addressed by the Mayor and other dignitaries. On Tuesday 17 March, most Waterford businesses—including public houses—were closed and marching bands paraded like they had two days previously. The Waterford Trades Hall had been emphatic that the National Holiday be observed.\n\nOn St Patrick's Day 1916, the Irish Volunteers—an Irish nationalist paramilitary organisation—held parades throughout Ireland. The authorities recorded 38 St Patrick's Day parades, involving 6,000 marchers, almost half of whom were said to be armed. The following month, the Irish Volunteers launched the Easter Rising against British rule. This marked the beginning of the Irish revolutionary period and led to the Irish War of Independence and Civil War. During this time, St Patrick's Day celebrations in Ireland were muted, although the day was sometimes chosen to hold large political rallies. The celebrations remained low-key after the creation of the Irish Free State; the only state-organized observance was a military procession and trooping of the colours, and an Irish-language mass attended by government ministers. In 1927, the Irish Free State government banned the selling of alcohol on St Patrick's Day, although it remained legal in Northern Ireland. The ban was not repealed until 1961.\n\nThe first official, state-sponsored St Patrick's Day parade in Dublin took place in 1931.\nIn Northern Ireland, the celebration of St Patrick's Day was affected by sectarian divisions. A majority of the population were Protestant Ulster unionists who saw themselves as British, while a substantial minority were Catholic Irish nationalists who saw themselves as Irish. Although it was a public holiday, Northern Ireland's unionist government did not officially observe St Patrick's Day. During the conflict known as the Troubles (late 1960s–late 1990s), public St Patrick's Day celebrations were rare and tended to be associated with the Catholic community. In 1976, loyalists detonated a car bomb outside a pub crowded with Catholics celebrating St Patrick's Day in Dungannon; four civilians were killed and many injured. However, some Protestant unionists attempted to 're-claim' the festival, and in 1985 the Orange Order held its own St Patrick's Day parade. Since the end of the conflict in 1998 there have been cross-community St Patrick's Day parades in towns throughout Northern Ireland, which have attracted thousands of spectators.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the government of the Republic of Ireland began a campaign to use St Patrick's Day to showcase Ireland and its culture. The government set up a group called St Patrick's Festival, with the aims:\n\nThe first St Patrick's Festival was held on 17 March 1996. In 1997, it became a three-day event, and by 2000 it was a four-day event. By 2006, the festival was five days long; more than 675,000 people attended the 2009 parade. Overall 2009's five-day festival saw almost 1 million visitors, who took part in festivities that included concerts, outdoor theatre performances, and fireworks. Skyfest forms the centrepiece of the festival.\n\nThe topic of the 2004 St Patrick's Symposium was \"Talking Irish\", during which the nature of Irish identity, economic success, and the future were discussed. Since 1996, there has been a greater emphasis on celebrating and projecting a fluid and inclusive notion of \"Irishness\" rather than an identity based around traditional religious or ethnic allegiance. The week around St Patrick's Day usually involves Irish language speakers using more Irish during \"Seachtain na Gaeilge\" (\"Irish Language Week\").\n\nChristian leaders in Ireland have expressed concern about the secularisation of St Patrick's Day. In \"The Word\" magazine's March 2007 issue, Fr Vincent Twomey wrote, \"It is time to reclaim St Patrick's Day as a church festival\". He questioned the need for \"mindless alcohol-fuelled revelry\" and concluded that \"it is time to bring the piety and the fun together\".\n\nAs well as Dublin, many other cities, towns, and villages in Ireland hold their own parades and festivals, including Cork, Belfast, Derry, Galway, Kilkenny, Limerick, and Waterford.\n\nThe biggest celebrations outside the cities are in Downpatrick, County Down, where Saint Patrick is said to be buried. The shortest St. Patrick's Day parade in the world formerly took place in Dripsey, County Cork. The parade lasted just 23.4 metres and traveled between the village's two pubs. The annual event began in 1999, but ceased after five years when one of the two pubs closed.\n\nIn England, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother used to present bowls of shamrock flown over from Ireland to members of the Irish Guards, a regiment in the British Army. The Irish Guards still wear shamrock on this day, flown in from Ireland. The general habit of people of Irish descent wearing a sprig of shamrock on the day was a victim of the Troubles from the late 1960s, now being mostly confined to people attending specific events.\n\nChristian denominations in Great Britain observing his feast day include The Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nHorse racing at the Cheltenham Festival attracts large numbers of Irish people, both residents of Britain and many who travel from Ireland, and usually coincides with St Patrick's Day.\n\nBirmingham holds the largest St Patrick's Day parade in Britain with a city centre parade over a two-mile (3 km) route through the city centre. The organisers describe it as the third biggest parade in the world after Dublin and New York.\n\nLondon, since 2002, has had an annual St Patrick's Day parade which takes place on weekends around the 17th, usually in Trafalgar Square. In 2008 the water in the Trafalgar Square fountains was dyed green.\n\nLiverpool has the highest proportion of residents with Irish ancestry of any English city. This has led to a long-standing celebration on St Patrick's Day in terms of music, cultural events and the parade.\n\nManchester hosts a two-week Irish festival in the weeks prior to St Patrick's Day. The festival includes an Irish Market based at the city's town hall which flies the Irish tricolour opposite the Union Flag, a large parade as well as a large number of cultural and learning events throughout the two-week period.\n\nThe first Saint Patrick's Day celebrations in Malta took place in the early 20th century by soldiers of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers who were stationed in Floriana. Celebrations were held in the Balzunetta area of the town, which contained a number of bars and was located close to the barracks. The Irish diaspora in Malta continued to celebrate the feast annually.\n\nToday, Saint Patrick's Day is mainly celebrated in Spinola Bay and Paceville areas of St Julian's, although other celebrations still occur at Floriana and other locations. Thousands of Maltese attend the celebrations, which are more associated with drinking beer than traditional Irish culture.\n\nThe first St Patrick's Day parade took place in Russia in 1992. Since 1999, there has been a yearly \"Saint Patrick's Day\" festival in Moscow and other Russian cities. The official part of the Moscow parade is a military-style parade and is held in collaboration with the Moscow government and the Irish embassy in Moscow. The unofficial parade is held by volunteers and resembles a carnival. In 2014, Moscow Irish Week was celebrated from 12 to 23 March, which includes St Patrick's Day on 17 March. Over 70 events celebrating Irish culture in Moscow, St Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Voronezh, and Volgograd were sponsored by the Irish Embassy, the Moscow City Government, and other organisations.\n\nIn 2017, the Russian Orthodox Church added the feast day of Saint Patrick to its liturgical calendar, to be celebrated on .\n\nSarajevo, the capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a large Irish expatriate community. The community established the Sarajevo Irish Festival in 2015, which is held for three days around and including St. Patrick's Day. The festival organizes an annual a parade, hosts Irish theatre companies, screens Irish films and organizes concerts of Irish folk musicians. The festival has hosted numerous Irish artists, filmmakers, theatre directors and musicians such as Conor Horgan, Ailis Ni Riain, Dermot Dunne, Mick Moloney, Chloë Agnew and others.\n\nThe Scottish town of Coatbridge, where the majority of the town's population are of Irish descent, also has a Saint Patrick's Day Festival which includes celebrations and parades in the town centre.\n\nGlasgow has a considerably large Irish population; due, for the most part, to the Irish immigration during the 19th century. This immigration was the main cause in raising the population of Glasgow by over 100,000 people. Due to this large Irish population, there are many Irish-themed pubs and Irish interest groups who hold yearly celebrations on St Patrick's day in Glasgow. Glasgow has held a yearly St Patrick's Day parade and festival since 2007.\n\nWhile Saint Patrick's Day in Switzerland is commonly celebrated on 17 March with festivities similar to those in neighbouring central European countries, it is not unusual for Swiss students to organise celebrations in their own living spaces on St Patrick's Eve. Most popular are usually those in Zurich's Kreis 4. Traditionally, guests also contribute with beverages and dress in green.\n\nSt Patrick's parades are now held in many locations across Japan. The first parade, in Tokyo, was organised by The Irish Network Japan (INJ) in 1992.\n\nThe Irish Association of Korea has celebrated Saint Patrick's Day since 1976 in Seoul, the capital city of South Korea. The place of the parade and festival has been moved from Itaewon and Daehangno to Cheonggyecheon.\n\nIn Malaysia, the St Patrick's Society of Selangor, founded in 1925, organises a yearly St Patrick's Ball, described as the biggest St Patrick's Day celebration in Asia. Guinness Anchor Berhad also organises 36 parties across the country in places like the Klang Valley, Penang, Johor Bahru, Malacca, Ipoh, Kuantan, Kota Kinabalu, Miri and Kuching.\n\nThe tiny island of Montserrat is known as the \"Emerald Island of the Caribbean\" because of its founding by Irish refugees from Saint Kitts and Nevis. Montserrat is one of three places where St Patrick's Day is a public holiday, along with Ireland and the Canadian province of Newfoundland & Labrador. The holiday in Montserrat also commemorates a failed slave uprising that occurred on 17 March 1768.\n\nAstronauts on board the International Space Station have celebrated the festival in different ways. Irish-American Catherine Coleman played a hundred-year-old flute belonging to Matt Molloy and a tin whistle belonging to Paddy Moloney, both members of the Irish music group The Chieftains, while floating weightless in the space station on Saint Patrick's Day in 2011. Her performance was later included in a track called \"The Chieftains in Orbit\" on the group's album, \"Voice of Ages\".\n\nChris Hadfield took photographs of Ireland from earth orbit, and a picture of himself wearing green clothing in the space station, and posted them online on Saint Patrick's Day in 2013. He also posted online a recording of himself singing \"Danny Boy\" in space.\n\nOne of the longest-running and largest St Patrick's Day parades in North America occurs each year in Montreal, whose city flag includes a shamrock in its lower-right quadrant. The yearly celebration has been organised by the United Irish Societies of Montreal since 1929. The parade has been held yearly without interruption since 1824. St Patrick's Day itself, however, has been celebrated in Montreal since as far back as 1759 by Irish soldiers in the Montreal Garrison following the British conquest of New France.\n\nIn Saint John, New Brunswick St. Patrick's Day is celebrated as a week-long celebration. Shortly after the JP Collins Celtic Festival is an Irish festival celebrating Saint John's Irish heritage. The festival is named for a young Irish doctor James Patrick Collins who worked on Partridge Island (Saint John County) quarantine station tending to sick Irish immigrants before he died there himself.\n\nIn Manitoba, the Irish Association of Manitoba runs a yearly three-day festival of music and culture based around St Patrick's Day.\n\nIn 2004, the CelticFest Vancouver Society organised its first yearly festival in downtown Vancouver to celebrate the Celtic Nations and their cultures. This event, which includes a parade, occurs each year during the weekend nearest St Patrick's Day.\n\nIn Quebec City, there was a parade from 1837 to 1926. The Quebec City St-Patrick Parade returned in 2010 after more than 84 years. For the occasion, a portion of the New York Police Department Pipes and Drums were present as special guests.\n\nThere has been a parade held in Toronto since at least 1863. There is a large parade in the city's downtown on the Sunday before 17 March which attracts over 100,000 spectators.\n\nThe Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team was known as the Toronto St. Patricks from 1919 to 1927, and wore green jerseys. In 1999, when the Maple Leafs played on St Patrick's Day, they wore green St Patrick's retro uniforms.\n\nSome groups, notably Guinness, have lobbied to make Saint Patrick's Day a national holiday.\n\nIn March 2009, the Calgary Tower changed its top exterior lights to new green CFL bulbs just in time for St Patrick's Day. Part of an environmental non-profit organisation's campaign (Project Porchlight), the green represented environmental concerns. Approximately 210 lights were changed in time for Saint Patrick's Day, and resembled a Leprechaun's hat. After a week, white CFLs took their place. The change was estimated to save the Calgary Tower some $12,000 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 104 tonnes.\n\nSt Patrick's Day, while not a legal holiday in the United States, is nonetheless widely recognised and observed throughout the country as a celebration of Irish and Irish-American culture. Celebrations include prominent displays of the colour green, religious observances, numerous parades, and copious consumption of alcohol. The holiday has been celebrated in North America since the late 18th century.\n\nIn Buenos Aires, a party is held in the downtown street of Reconquista, where there are several Irish pubs; in 2006, there were 50,000 people in this street and the pubs nearby. Neither the Catholic Church nor the Irish community, the fifth largest in the world outside Ireland, take part in the organisation of the parties.\n\nSt Patrick's Day celebrations have been criticised, particularly for their association with public drunkenness and disorderly conduct. Some argue that the festivities have become too commercialised and tacky, and have strayed from their original purpose of honouring St Patrick and Irish heritage. Journalist Niall O'Dowd has criticised attempts to recast St Patrick's Day as a celebration of multiculturalism rather than a celebration of Irishness.\n\nSt Patrick's Day celebrations have also been criticised for fostering demeaning stereotypes of Ireland and Irish people. An example is the wearing of 'leprechaun outfits', which are based on derogatory 19th century caricatures of the Irish. In the run up to St Patrick's Day 2014, the Ancient Order of Hibernians successfully campaigned to stop major American retailers from selling novelty merchandise that promoted negative Irish stereotypes.\n\nSome have described St Patrick's Day celebrations outside Ireland as displays of \"Plastic Paddyness\"; where foreigners appropriate and misrepresent Irish culture, claim Irish identity, and enact Irish stereotypes.\n\nLGBT groups in the US were banned from marching in St. Patrick's Day parades in New York City and Boston, resulting in the landmark Supreme Court decision of \"Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Group of Boston\". In New York City, the ban was lifted in 2014, but LGBT groups still find that barriers to participation exist. In Boston, the ban on LGBT group participation was lifted in 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26386741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26386741", "title": "San Sebastian's Walk", "text": "San Sebastian's Walk\n\nThe San Sebastian’s Walk is a religious catholic event with ecological and sport characteristics, which takes place the 20th of January of each year in the outskirts of the city of Maracay, Aragua State, in Venezuela.\n\nThe route of this peregrination begins in El Limón and finishes in the Main Church of Ocumare de la Costa. The route is 29.09 miles long crossing the mountains of the Henri Pittier National Park using the only paved route that unites the city of Maracay with the coastal zone of Venezuela.\n\nThe origin of this event is associated to Celso Bethencourt, who was born in Canary Islands, Spain, and to Francesco Centrone, originally from Italy, who made this first route walking with no stops to fulfill a religious promise to Saint Sebastian, finishing their long walk the 20th of January 1987 in approximately 12 hours, after this first peregrination Francesco Centrone continued making this passage, every year on the same day; year after year making the long walk with family and friends, forming little by little a tradition.\nIn 1996 Centrone and a group created the Foundation Peregrination Saint Sebastian to continue with the walk. The Foundation manages the donations and the money to support social programs in the town of Ocumare de la Costa and to foster ecological plans on the route.\n\nThe route consists on 7.8 miles of ascent, 12.4 miles of slope and 6.2 miles of level ground. The route traditionally has multiple points at which assistance is available.\n\nThere is a time limit to accomplish this walk of 12 hours.\nStarting time is at 6:00 a.m.\n\nOfficial website\n\n"}
{"id": "53358373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53358373", "title": "Saturn (alligator)", "text": "Saturn (alligator)\n\nSaturn (born 1936) is an American alligator residing in the Moscow Zoo. He is most notable as the subject of an urban myth that he was previously Adolf Hitler's \"pet alligator.\"\n\nBorn in 1936 in the state of Mississippi, United States, Saturn soon was brought to Germany, residing at the Berlin Zoological Garden. It was here his association with Adolf Hitler originated, as Hitler reportedly enjoyed visiting the zoo and especially liked the alligator. However, while Hitler may have viewed Saturn at the zoo, he was never Hitler's personal pet. During World War II, the Berlin zoo was destroyed, but Saturn was discovered by British soldiers, who then gave the alligator to the Soviets in 1946. He has lived at the Moscow Zoo ever since, and has become one of the zoo's most famous and popular attractions.\n\nSaturn has been described as 2 to 3.5 meters long, and weighing 200 kilograms (441 pounds). Like the majority of alligators, he has green scales, a broad mouth, and yellow eyes.\n\nSaturn was born of the wild in Mississippi, United States, in 1936. He was captured that year and was shipped to Berlin, where he was brought to the Berlin Zoological Garden. It was from this period that the popular rumor emerged that Saturn was Adolf Hitler's \"pet.\" This may have originated with the author Boris Akunin, a Russian writer who hypothesized in an article that this may have been the case. In actuality, he was not Hitler's personal pet, as he was on public display at the zoo. However, some sources report his display at the zoo as being part of a personal menagerie of Hitler's, while Dmitry Vasilyev, a veterinarian at the Moscow Zoo, contends that while Saturn was not Hitler's pet, the two certainly came into contact, as Hitler was known to have visited the Berlin Zoo on occasion.\n\nDuring World War II, much of the Berlin Zoo was destroyed. Of the zoo's 16,000 animals, only 96 survived. When the aquarium building was destroyed by a bomb on 23 November 1943, 20 to 30 alligators and crocodiles were killed. Press reports documented that the streets near the aquarium were littered with alligator and crocodile corpses, but that some, including Saturn, had survived and were wandering through the city in search of food.\n\nAt the close of the war, the area where the Berlin Zoo is located came under the jurisdiction of the British Zone of Occupation. In 1946, British soldiers discovered Saturn, and brought him to Leipzig, then part of the Soviet Zone of Occupation, where they gave Saturn to the Soviets. While the exact details of how Saturn came to Russia are unknown since the Moscow tourist office burnt down in the 1950s, it is known that the Red Army transported Saturn, along with an Indian python, to Moscow in July 1946, and brought him to live in the Moscow Zoo. When the alligator arrived at the Moscow Zoo, he was instantly a popular attraction, as there were only two crocodiles at the zoo and no other alligators. His German origins earned him the nickname 'Hitler', but he was later given the name 'Saturn'. In 1993, when Russian tanks were moving down the Garden Ring after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Saturn cried out because of the vibrations, which a zookeeper thinks reminded him of the Battle of Berlin.\n\nIn the 1950s, the United States gave the Soviet Union a younger, female alligator as a gift. She was named Shipka, and she and Saturn began mating, although they did not produce any offspring, as all the eggs Shipka produced have been infertile. Shipka, who was thirty years younger than Saturn, later died, and Saturn was so distressed by her death that he refused food for a time. By 2005, Saturn had a new mate, who was then thirty years old.\n\nIn his time at the Moscow Zoo, Saturn has had several narrow escapes from death. In the 1980s, a slab of concrete fell from the aquarium's ceiling into the alligator enclosure, but luckily for Saturn, he had made his way to a protective niche beforehand. In 1990, a new aquarium building was built, but Saturn resisted the move, refusing to eat for four months and becoming close to death. Once, a drunk visitor threw a boulder on his head to wake him up, after which zoo veterinarians fought to keep him alive for months. Another time, a group of tourists threw glass bottles at Saturn, injuring him. After these incidents, the enclosure was made more secure with the addition of thick glass wall. In the 2010s, Saturn once again stopped eating, this time for nearly a year. Zoo staff took blood samples for analysis, and injected him with vitamins to try to keep him alive. He did eventually resume eating.\n\nToday, Saturn spends much of his time sleeping. He eats a diet of fish, rabbits, and rats twice a week. Vladimir Kudriavzew, the head of the Moscow Zoo's reptile department, says that not many visitors today know of Saturn's eventful history. Today, zoo staff only relate Saturn's German origins to groups of visiting schoolchildren. When school classes come, the zookeepers allow children to stick the end of a broomstick into the enclosure, which is safe because Saturn is known as generally peaceful. His only violent incident occurred in 1970, when he tried to bite an inexperienced warden who had tried to feed him by hand.\n\nIn 2015, the Moscow Zoo renovated the Terrarium, where the alligator enclosure is located. A new interior and reconstructed enclosure was completed, and Saturn returned to public display. Also in 2015, Saturn became sponsored by the French clothing company Lacoste.\n\n"}
{"id": "33314095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33314095", "title": "Semyon Fedorets", "text": "Semyon Fedorets\n\nSemyon Alekseyevich Fedorets (Semen A. Fedorets) was a MiG-15 pilot of the Soviet Union. He was a flying ace during the Korean war, with 7 victories.\nIn 1941, Semyon Fedorets graduated from Dnepropetrovsk Aeroclub and entered the Military Aviation School in Odessa. After graduation, he was sent to the Leningrad Front in the 403rd Fighter Aviation Regiment. Young pilots to combat operations were allowed only by May 1944, when the front moved away from Leningrad. Thus, He did not actually participate in the battles of the Great Patriotic War.\n\nAfter the war, in September 1949, was transferred to the airfield Voskresensk (Far East), where he was appointed commander. In April 1952, his unit was sent to China, to the airfield of Anshan City. December 17, 1953, shot down his first F-86 Sabre. On February 19, 1953, he was appointed squadron commander of the 913th Fighter Regiment of the 32nd Fighter Aviation Division.\n\nFlying a MiG-15, during the fighting in Korea, he shot down 7 enemy aircraft, in 98 combat sorties and 40 air engagement.\n\n"}
{"id": "51673498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51673498", "title": "Six Days of Paris", "text": "Six Days of Paris\n\nThe Six Days of Paris was a six-day track cycling race held annually in Paris, France.\n"}
{"id": "34654131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34654131", "title": "Smart Start, Inc.", "text": "Smart Start, Inc.\n\nSmart Start, Inc. is a Texas company that provides services and technologies that prevent intoxicated drivers from operating a vehicle. Smart Start, Inc. manufactures, installs, monitors and services the ignition interlock devices. In almost all cases, these devices are installed by court order due to DUI or DWI violations.\n\nSmart Start, Inc. was founded in 1993 by Jay and Bettye Rodgers and is headquartered in Irving, Texas. In 2016 the company filed a lawsuit against the Minnesota DPS. The company alleges that the use of GPS trackers to track persons convicted of DUI violates the Fourth Amendement.\n\nSmart Start claims to have installed over 200,000 ignition interlock devices and reports that these devices have prevented over 7 million vehicle starts due to potential drivers being over the approved limit. The devices are in use in Canada, the United States, and Australia.\n\nBeginning in 2018, drivers convicted of DUI in Nevada are only eligible for reinstatement of driving privileges if they install an ignition interlock for 90 days after an arrest and for 6 months after a conviction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11593184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11593184", "title": "Subsistence crisis", "text": "Subsistence crisis\n\nIt was in France that the notion of a subsistence crisis was first formulated by Meuvret in 1946, and greatly popularised by Goubert in 1960 through his influential study of the Beauvaisis in Beauvais. The theory of subsistence crises, in its contemporary guise, was first formulated by Meuvret in 1946. As an economic historian and specialist in price history Meuvret was struck by the coincidence between high prices and the increase in the number of deaths in the region of Gien in 1709–10. He then posed the problem of the nature of demographic crises, very tentatively at first, since he thought it was a hopeless quest to try to distinguish statistically between phenomena that were so closely associated: namely, mortality through simple inanition (starvation); mortality caused by disease, though attributable to malnutrition; and mortality by contagion, which in turn was linked to the scarcity that helped both spawn diseases and spread them through the migration of poor beggars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4532406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4532406", "title": "The Black Pimpernel", "text": "The Black Pimpernel\n\nThe Black Pimpernel (; ) is a Swedish drama film directed by Ulf Hultberg and starring Michael Nyqvist and Lisa Werlinder. The film also features Kate Del Castillo, Luis Gnecco and Claire Ross-Brown in a minor part.\n\nThe film is about Harald Edelstam, Sweden’s ambassador to Chile, who after the military coup of Augusto Pinochet in 1973, managed to save the lives of more than 1,300 people by taking them to his embassy and transporting them to Sweden.\n\nHis name comes from the fictional hero The Scarlet Pimpernel who saved many lives during the French Revolution.\n\nThe film was shot in Chile in the spring of 2006 and opened September 14, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "54617134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54617134", "title": "The Black Woman is God", "text": "The Black Woman is God\n\nThe Black Woman Is God is a recurring group exhibition of Black women artists curated by Karen Seneferu and Melorra Green, which started in 2013 and in 2016 and 2017 has been located at the San Francisco city-owned nonprofit art space SOMArts. The exhibitions challenge a popular western mindset of God as a white male and instead explores new images showing \"The Black Woman is God\".\n\nThe first iteration of The Black Woman is God was intended as a solo exhibition for Seneferu, curated by Green, at the African American Art & Culture Complex. Seneferu agreed to participate in the exhibition only if other black female artists were included. The exhibition included 20 visual and performance artists. The opening reception also included a performing arts show as part of the exhibition and was called \"vibrant and magnificent\".\n\nThe second, expanded iteration of The Black Woman is God, with 60 artists, opened on July 7, 2016 and ran through August 16, 2016.\n\nArt critics called it as \"timely\", \"organic\", and \"vivid\". Sheila Bapat of Bitch Magazine said \"The exhibit intentionally turns the historic devaluation of Black women and their contributions—social, political, economical—on its head. This exhibit asserts Black women’s power and beauty and does not seek to devalue any other group in the process... It applies pressure to the beliefs and values undergirding the laws and policies that exclude Black women’s lives from economic policymaking and their labor from economic value and protection.\"\n\nThe third iteration of The Black Woman is God, also curated by Karen Seneferu and Melorra Green, returned to SOMArts on July 20, 2017, running through August 26, 2017. The exhibition has the work of 80 artists on view. SOMArts, the California Digital Library and Art Practical held a Wikipedia Edit-a-Thon on July 22 in conjunction with the exhibition \"to raise the online visibility of Black women artists and challenge the gaps in art history that erase or minimize Black women’s contributions as artists, activists and social change-makers.\"\n\nThey plan for 2018 to have more events in Oakland where many artists live and would like future exhibitions to travel around the country and the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "15293238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293238", "title": "Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique", "text": "Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique\n\nThe Théâtre de l’Ambigu-Comique (, literally, Theatre of the Comic-Ambiguity), a former Parisian theatre, was founded in 1769 on the boulevard du Temple immediately adjacent to the Théâtre de Nicolet. It was rebuilt in 1770 and 1786, but in 1827 was destroyed by fire. A new, larger theatre with a capacity of 2,000 as compared to the earlier 1,250 was built nearby on the boulevard Saint-Martin at its intersection with the rue de Bondy and opened the following year. The theatre was eventually demolished in 1966.\n\nIt was founded in 1769 on the boulevard du Temple, originally known as the Promenades des Ramparts, in Paris by Nicolas-Médard Audinot, formerly a comedian of the Opéra-Comique, which he had left to become a puppet-master at the Paris fairs. Audinot had already been a success in one of the sites of the Saint-Germain Fair, where his large marionettes (called \"bamboches\") were in vogue.\n\nUnder the name of his foundation, the \"Comédiens de bois\", the Opéra-Comique proposed pantomimes and \"féeries\" (spectacles), then he enlarged his repertoire to include marionettes, child-performers, and acrobats, in comedies, vaudeville shows, \"opéras comiques\", dramas and pantomimes.\n\nThe variety and mix of these theatrical modes justified and explained changing the theatre's name, after only one year, from \"Comédiens de bois\" to \"Ambigu-Comique\" when Audinot substituted child-performers for marionettes. Audinot also used wooden puppets to spitefully reenact his former colleagues from the Comédie Italienne. Audinot saved the profits he made from shows and constructed a permanent theatre building on the Boulevard du Temple, which officially opened on July 9, 1769. The following April, Audinot added to his puppets with a few young children, who he trained up in the theatrical arts, and painted the motto \"Sicut infantes audi nos\" on the theatre's curtain. His success caused Delille to write \"Dear Audinot, childhood attired as old age\".\n\nThe architectural success of the theatre was mostly due to the ambitious and inventive set designer, Louis Daguerre. Daguerre, who is also credited with developing early photography and diorama theatre (1822), was an expert in scenic and lighting design and created picturesque effects within the theatre.\n\nA Conseil decision of 1771 (demanded by the Opéra) banned singing, dancing, and having more than four musicians aroused such emotion that it was revoked only a few days later, and Audinot took full advantage of the situation. Judging, in 1772, that the time was right to extend the building, he gave up puppetry altogether, replacing them entirely with child-performers. Not entirely released from the ties which had brought about his rise in the large theatres, from 1780 he had to pay the Opéra a fee for representation and to engage him but not use him, in producing ballets and lyric pieces borrowed for that scene, whose shows had at least ten years of publicity. The Comédie-Française and the Comédie-Italienne stipulated, for their part, that dialogue pieces in the repertoire would be submitted to them before being played, so they could edit and change them to their own advantage.\n\nDespite these problems and burdens, the Ambigu was able to rebuild and enlarge its theatre in 1786. Audinot sustained the fashion for \"pantomimes historiques and \"pantomimes romanesques\" such as \"Belle au bois dormant\", \"Masque de fer\", \"Forêt-Noire\", and \"Capitaine Cook\". The Ambigu's success was equally down to the \"comédies graveleuses\" written by its official writers Plainchesne and Moline. Bachaumont even noted in 1771 that Audinot's theatre was better attended than the Opéra.\n\nBeing located on the Boulevard du Temple amongst several other successful theaters created a healthy competition and a spark that the Ambigu used to strive to achieve greatness. Some of the theaters along the Boulevard included Theatre de Nicolet, Theatre des Associes, Theatre des Delassement-Comiques, and many others. The Comedie Francais, which was established back in 1680 and was certainly well-known throughout Europe, coexisted with the Ambigu and, therefore, they competed each other for an audience. However, l’Ambigu’s biggest rival was Théâtre Feydeau. The Feydeau was closed by the government due to the social “turbulence” it invoked, and on February 3, 1795 Théâtre de l’Ambigu showed a production of \"Le Concert de la rue Feydeau.\" This production was a satirical piece and a supposedly “lighthearted attack” against The Feydeau which was taken the wrong way to many viewers and caused “angry crowds to surround the Ambigu for two evenings until the Committee of Public Saftety demanded that the play be withdrawn in the interests of public tranquility” (Carlson.)\n\nThe proclamation of the freedom of the theatres in 1791 gave rise to a large number of rivals to the Ambigu, which was forced to close in 1799. In 1801, Audinot inaugurated a melodrama with Guilbert de Pixérécourt, Caigniez and Victor Ducange. In addition to the big name of Pixerecourt, actor Frederick Lemaitre played “Robert Macaire,” a classic villain in many French plays, in 1823 with outstanding success. After Audinot stepped down as the director, one of the company’s actors named Picardeaux took over, followed by Andre Coffin-Rosny, then Hector Chaussier, and another actor, Cammaile Saint-Aubin. The Ambigu's building burned down on 13 July 1827.\nThe theatre was rebuilt to plans by the architects Jacques Ignace Hittorff and Jean-François-Joseph Lecointe on the boulevard Saint-Martin, at the corner of rue de Bondy (now rue René-Boulanger). The 19th century saw the Ambigu's success augmented, so much so that its grand spectacles, dramas, melodramas, \"pièces de boulevard\" and vaudeville shows remain the most faithful representation of the dramatic traditions of what is called \"the boulevard of crime\" (\"le boulevard du crime\").\n\nProductions of adapted novels were successful such as Émile Zola’s \"L’Assommoir\" in 1879 and \"Nana\" in 1881.\n\nIn the 1920s, the building was briefly turned into a cinema. In 1954, the comedian Christian Casadesus reopened the Théâtre de l'Ambigu, and plays were staged there once again, by contemporary authors such as François Billetdoux and Roger Vitrac. In 1966, despite several demonstrations and a spectacular parade by the whole theatrical profession, the theatre was closed for good and demolished. The department of André Malraux, minister of culture, promised that the auditorium, then the whole building, would be preserved, when demolition works had already begun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48091100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48091100", "title": "University of Hong Kong pro-vice-chancellor selection controversy", "text": "University of Hong Kong pro-vice-chancellor selection controversy\n\nThe University of Hong Kong pro-vice-chancellor selection controversy surrounds alleged political interference behind the University of Hong Kong governing council's rejection of Johannes Chan's recommended appointment to the post of pro-vice-chancellor in charge of staffing and resources. Chan, dean of the Faculty of Law from 2002 until 2014, had been unanimously recommended for the post by a selection committee headed by university president Peter Mathieson. The governing council's decision, the first time that a candidate selected by the committee has been rejected, is widely viewed as political retaliation for Chan's involvement with pro-democratic figures including his former subordinate Benny Tai. A majority of HKU Council members are not students or staff of the university, and many are directly appointed by incumbent HKSAR Chief executive Leung Chun-ying. The decision has received international condemnation, and is being viewed as part of a Beijing-backed curtailing of academic freedoms that will damage Hong Kong's academic reputation.\n\nAll pro-vice-chancellors of the University of Hong Kong are recommended by a search committee comprising the university president and vice-chancellor and other members selected by the HKU Council.\n\nThe selection committee unanimously recommended the council appoint Johannes Chan to the pro-vice-chancellor post responsible for staffing and resources, a position that had been left vacant for five years. Chan, who served as dean of the Faculty of Law from 2002 until 2014, is a distinguished scholar in constitutional law and human rights and \"a vocal critic on Hong Kong's political reform issues\". Chan is the only honorary senior counsel of the Hong Kong Bar, a title bestowed in 2003 light of his \"pivotal role in the education of Hong Kong's future lawyers\" and his commitment to upholding human rights.\n\nOwing to his liberal political stance, criticism of Chan by media controlled by the Communist Party of China was stepped up as soon as his candidacy for the post became known. He was derided in \"Ta Kung Pao\" and \"Wen Wei Po\", which together published more than 350 articles attacking him and accusing him of \"meddling in politics\" for his involvement with pro-democratic figures including his former subordinate Benny Tai. Communist Party-controlled newspaper \"Global Times\" also bashed Chan, calling him a \"ringleader\" of the 2014 pro-democratic protests. Chan's treatment in Beijing-controlled media has been described as a smear campaign and character assassination.\n\nThe HKU Council normally comprises 24 members, although in mid-2015 two seats were vacant and Margaret Leung served in two roles. Two further members, Yuen Kwok-yung and Aloysius Arokiaraj, resigned in July but continued to serve on the council until their replacements were elected. The council's \"Guide and Code of Practice\" includes a confidentiality clause. It was updated in August 2015 to state that \"it is \"absolutely\" necessary to keep confidential the council agenda, supporting papers and minutes\", while the previous version (from 2004) had stated less strictly, \"it is \"normally\" necessary\".\n\nThe decision not to appoint Chan is seen as a pro-government act of retaliation against \"pro-democracy leaders and participants\" and a blow to academic freedom. This is partly because six members of the council are directly appointed by the Chief executive of Hong Kong, who acts as chancellor of all publicly funded tertiary institutions in the territory. Five members are delegates to the National People's Congress in Beijing, and as such are obliged to toe the Communist Party line or otherwise risk expulsion. In overall council makeup, university students and staff are outnumbered by members from outside the university.\n\nThe composition of the council at the time of Chan's rejection was as follows:\n\nCustomarily the HKU Council accepts the recommendations of search committees for senior posts, with no prior recommendation having been rejected by the council in the university's history.\n\nThe university initiated a worldwide search for five pro-vice-chancellors in mid-2014. Two of them, Ian Holliday and Douglas So, were appointed in November 2014. Another two, Andy Hor and John Kao, were appointed in March 2015 to commence employment in September 2015. The sole candidate for position of pro-vice-chancellor (academic staffing and resources), recommended by unanimity, was Johannes Chan. The news of the selection committee's recommendation was broken by \"Wen Wei Po\" in a feature report \"in the best interest of the public\" even before the HKU council had been informed of the selection. Chan then became the target of a concerted attack by \"Wen Wei Po\" and \"Ta Kung Po\" for his academic record. \"Wen Wei Po\", citing from a leaked University Grants Commission report, stated that Chan's academic record on research was not up to international standards while he was dean of the law school. The journal accused Chan of being so busy with politics that he neglected research.\n\nAccording to an article by Kevin Lau in \"Ming Pao\", parties close to the government applied pressure on committee members behind the scenes to block Chan's appointment. Chief executive Leung Chun-ying was reported to have telephoned members of the committee to persuade them to vote against Chan's appointment, whilst Sophia Kao, member of the Central Policy Unit, admitted that she may have mentioned Chan's candidature to someone \"casually\" but said she did not recall with whom and in what context. CY Leung's lieutenant Fanny Law, who was found to have interfered with institutional autonomy in 2007 whilst serving as education secretary, categorically denied having intervened. Leung also denied allegations he intervened in the selection. However, i-Cable and \"South China Morning Post\" subsequently revealed that CY Leung had convened at least three meetings with Peter Mathieson within four months during the period the decision was being deferred. On one occasion, Leung allegedly met Mathieson with HKU council chairman Leong Chee-hung and education secretary Eddie Ng. Although Ng said he had no recollection of the meeting, the Office of the Chief executive did not deny that such a meeting had taken place.\n\nThe council was criticised when it repeatedly deferred the decision to appoint Chan, stating that it should wait until a new provost was in place. The decision was repeatedly delayed through votes on 30 June and 28 July. Just after the council voted down a motion to stop delaying the appointment at the latter meeting, dozens of students rushed into the conference room in protest. During the incident, council member Lo Chung-mau fell down and alleged he was pushed over. He said his knee was injured; he reported this to the police and was taken to hospital. Students' union president Billy Fung expressed disbelief that Lo was injured by a student. Online videos appeared to show Lo fainting or falling on his own.\n\nThe students' storming of the conference was denounced by vice-chancellor Peter Mathieson, as well as the ten university deans who issued a statement urging \"all parties to put the interest of the university first\" and expressing conviction in the guarantee of academic freedom and university autonomy by the Hong Kong Basic Law Article 137. Council member Arthur Li compared the students to the Red Guards of the Cultural Revolution who tortured intellectuals.\n\nOn the other hand, 15 ex-presidents of the university released a joint statement supporting the students and expressing regret that Mathieson and the incumbent university deans had condemned the protest. The presidents called the demonstration a \"righteous action of the students to safeguard the academic freedom and university's autonomy.\" They said the composition of the current council, stacked with pro-government members from outside the university, violated the principle of institutional autonomy. Billy Fung said that the storming of the conference room helped bring the issue into the public spotlight.\n\nFollowing the postponement of 30 June, the postgraduate student representative, Aloysius Arokiaraj, resigned from the council in frustration, stating that the decisions \"[fell] short of my expected standards\". Though he tendered his resignation on 3 July, Arokiaraj remained on the council so that the position was not left vacant while a replacement is found. At the meeting on 28 July Arokiaraj voted against the deferral but in a letter to the \"South China Morning Post\" he criticised students' angry conduct during the storming of the conference room.\n\nRespected microbiologist Yuen Kwok-yung, considered a \"neutral party\" in the controversy, also resigned following the incident. He criticised both the students and the university governance, stating that he was \"incapable of dealing with the politics in the university council\". He dismissed Arthur Li's likening of the students to Red Guards, stating that the behaviour of the Hong Kong students was not as serious. Like Arokiaraj, Yuen continued to serve on the council until his replacement was elected.\n\nBy the end of July an alumni concern group had collected more than 3,000 signatures demanding the council stop delaying the decision. It was signed by numerous legislators and HKU alumni including Ip Kin-yuen, Sin Chung-kai, Alan Leong, Tanya Chan, Audrey Eu, Paul Zimmerman, Joseph Wong, Anson Chan, Andrew Wong, and others. Mathieson complained that he and others who had backed the appointment of Johannes Chan as pro-vice-chancellor had been subjected to \"orchestrated\" pressure by some political elements, his personal emails having been hacked and some of it published in pro-Beijing media.\n\nOn 1 September 2015 the HKU Convocation, a body of more than 162,000 alumni and faculty, convened an Extraordinary General Meeting at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre to hold a vote on the issue. Audit firm BDO International was hired to independently count the votes. Of 9,298 votes cast, 7,821 alumni voted to support the recommendation of Chan to the post, although the motion would not be binding on the university council. Another motion that called for the council to confirm the appointment of a pro-vice-chancellor within 30 days of committee recommendation got overwhelming support. The convocation conveners sent the results to the university council with the expectation that the result would put greater pressure on the council to consider the wishes of alumni.\n\nOn 29 September, the council rejected Chan's appointment (12 votes to 8) through a secret ballot in a closed meeting; no reason for the decision was disclosed. Political motivations were widely suspected and the opacity of the council criticised. At the suggestion of a council member, all phones had been taken away and sealed in envelopes for the duration of the meeting to prevent anyone leaking information to the media. During the meeting, dozens of protesters from two pro-Beijing groups stood outside the venue and denigrated Chan as \"incompetent\".\n\nBilly Fung, attending the meeting as president of the Hong Kong University Students' Union, stated that some council members said Chan was not qualified to be pro-vice-chancellor because he lacked a doctorate degree, and quoted member Arthur Li as stating that Chan may have been appointed dean of law simply because he is a \"nice guy\"; Lo Chung-mau complained that Chan had not shown him enough sympathy after he fell down during the meeting of 28 July. Fung said that of the eight who voted for Chan's appointment, seven were staff and students of the university.\n\nHKU Council chairman Edward Leong called Fung's leak a \"deplorable action\", accusing him of using \"dishonest means to achieve his aim\". He said that if the council discussions were open, it would discourage free discussion. Other council members criticised Fung's integrity, but refused to reveal what they had said during the meeting. Council members Lo Chung-mau and Arthur Li accused Fung of lying about the discussions. Leonie Ki, another council member, alleged that Fung's English language proficiency was so low that he could not understand what was being discussed during the council meetings. Three council members, including Ki, had spoken against Chan for making a high-profiled claim that he was the only candidate, whereas in fact the revelations were made only after a highly placed source leaked the fact to \"Wen Wei Po\".\n\nEducation professor Li Hui said that Fung was \"too young\" to understand what is fair. Pro-Beijing legislator Christopher Chung called for Fung to be removed. Fung responded to criticism by stating that upholding institutional transparency is more important than the confidentiality rules. William Cheung, president of the HKU Academic Staff Association, stated that he was \"proud of Fung for speaking up for righteousness\".\n\nA recording of the proceedings was obtained by Commercial Radio Hong Kong, which then broadcast excerpts of the discussions in late October featuring Arthur Li and Leonie Ki that confirmed the relevant parts of Billy Fung's accounts. The university, citing breach of confidentiality, sought and obtained an interim court order banning the radio station and \"persons unknown\" from publishing material from the confidential meetings; council chairman Edward Leong said the court order was sought to \"protect the dignity of HKU.\" The council, which had voted to suspend Fung from future meetings, authorised the hiring of a security professional in an attempt to identify the source of the audio, and also brought in the police to investigate whether a crime had been committed. Prominent lawyers, however, said that no crime had been committed, and that any attempt to prosecute the leaker would fail. One senior legal academic criticised the council for wasting police resources.\n\nCommercial Radio (CR) reached an agreement with HKU on 5 November undertaking not to air any other content of the council's past or future meetings unless these had already been reported by other media, meaning compliance with the terms of the interim injunction obtained by the university a few days earlier. The presiding High Court judge expressed reservations that Leong, on behalf of HKU, was seeking a \"perpetual injunction on all meetings, future, past, and present\". While CR's lawyer said agreement to comply with the court order did not imply that the station is compromising on press freedom, Hong Kong Journalists Association expressed disappointment at the broadcaster's decision. Pundits suggested that CR was bowing to political pressure as its broadcasting licence was up for renewal next year. The university insisted that the radio broadcaster must disclose the source of the leaked recording, which CR vowed it would never do, while a legal expert noted that privacy was not on equal footing with the freedom of information, and that legislation protecting whistleblowers was lacking in Hong Kong. At a court hearing on 6 November, the court extended the injunction to 24 November, but reduced its scope. It covers \"persons unknown\" who possess information about the five HKU council meetings held between June and October only. While HKU sought to adjourn the case, other interested parties – a legislator the HK Journalists Association, \"Apple Daily\", and two HKU law student (one of whom being chief editor of HKU student magazine \"Undergrad\") – joined the case seeking to have it dismissed outright. The blanket protection for future council meetings no longer applied.\n\nA sound recording apparently featuring the speech of Rosanna Wong against Chan at the council meeting was posted to a discussion forum in Taiwan on 8 November. The poster said that the despite the cordial tones of the meeting between Ma Ying-jeou and Xi Jinping, this episode ought to serve as a reminder to all Taiwan people that what is happening in Hong Kong could easily happen to Taiwan. Wong, who was university classmates with Chan at the London School of Economics, urged the council to avoid the potential controversy and not to appoint Chan because of his \"strong political position\" and fears that \"he probably would further divide\". Billy Fung confirmed that the leaked recording was consistent with his recollection and with the notes he took during the meeting.\n\nAfter the decision, Johannes Chan said that as a statutory publicly funded body, the council should act in an open and transparent manner and confirmed that he thought that his rejection was politically motivated. He stated, \"This is not an issue of personal gain or loss, but one about the core values of academic freedom and institutional autonomy.\"\n\nOther key international public law scholars came to Chan's defence. Yash Ghai stated that \"as a long-serving member of HKU [...] it grieves me greatly to see the council turn to these nasty tricks to deny [Chan the job] in order to – one must assume – appease the Chinese government\". Jerome A. Cohen compared the vote to a Mao-era political tactic and called the decision \"very sad news for Hong Kong's autonomy and freedom\". Roderick MacFarquhar called the vote an example of the Chinese government's push under Xi Jinping, current General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, to eradicate so-called Western values.\n\nThe Hong Kong University Students' Union called the decision unjust and unfair, and demanded an explanation from the council members who voted against Chan's appointment. The Hong Kong Federation of Students stated that \"the Hong Kong Communist administration has brazenly invaded Hong Kong's higher education, [and] political suppression of academia is now a fact\". Education lawmaker Ip Kin-yuen said \"It's obvious that the decision was a political one [...] Academic freedom will no longer exist after this\" and \"Today is the saddest day in the University of Hong Kong's 100 years of history.\" Others noted that the decision would serve as a warning to other academics not to engage in pro-democratic politics, and would severely tarnish Hong Kong's reputation for academic freedom and educational excellence.\n\nThe law faculty released a rare statement defending Chan against the council members who said he was not suitable for the post. The statement said that the accusations levelled against Chan were groundless, and that \"[The faculty] refutes in the strongest possible terms unfair criticisms that were said to have been made [...] Chan is internationally recognised as a leading scholar in his field. He was appointed dean of law for his vision, his leadership, his integrity, his passion for legal education, and above all his outstanding abilities. We have been fortunate to have him at the helm of the faculty.\"\n\nOn 8 October 2015, academics from across Hong Kong's tertiary education sector convened to form a new group to defend academic freedom called Scholars' Alliance for Academic Freedom (SAAF). The group stated, \"academic freedom can only exist through perpetual awareness, insistence and collective work\".\n\nIn elections to elect three full-time teaching members of its governing Council to replace those retiring in December, Head of the School of Humanities Timothy O'Leary, politics professor Joseph Chan and Mechanical engineering professor Cheung Kie-chung topped the poll with 322, 328 and 183 votes respectively. All three said they opposed the appointment of Arthur Li to chair the Council.\n\nNumerous academics have rebuked the repeated attacks in pro-government media against Chan's lack of a doctorate degree, a point that Billy Fung says was cited by Arthur Li and Edward Chen as a primary reason for not appointing Chan. Joseph Lian Yizheng, prominent former member of the Central Policy Unit, noted that no incumbent law school dean in Hong Kong has a doctoral degree, nor do numerous deans of top international law schools. He wrote that such a requirement is \"irrelevant\" in the law profession, and alleged that many of those on the HKU council who head academic departments yet do not hold PhDs were being hypocritical. Sing Ming, a professor at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, echoed the observation that a lack of a PhD is not unusual among heads of law schools internationally. Chinese University international relations professor Simon Shen wrote that it was \"ridiculous\" to require a doctoral degree for the post, citing the case of celebrated Chinese historian and educator Ch'ien Mu, who had only a junior high education. \"Ming Pao Daily\" noted that only four out of six current or former Hong Kong pro-vice-chancellors since 2013 hold doctorate degrees. Chan himself says that he began study for a doctoral degree in 1988 at the London School of Economics, but dropped out because he wanted to help Hong Kong people understand legal issues during the complicated run-up to the 1997 transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong.\n\nOn 6 October 2015, up to 2,000 faculty and students donned black dress and held a walkout, marching in silent protest through the university campus. Banners appeared around the campus reading, \"The institutional autonomy of the University of Hong Kong is under attack.\" Speaking at the protest Timothy O'Leary, head of the Humanities Department, described Chan's non-appointment as \"an absolute disgrace\", and said \"we march in silence to demonstrate to ourselves and to the city of Hong Kong what a university could be like if its academic staff and students were silent.\"\n\nA second protest took place at 9 October 2015 at Sun Yat-sen Place, outside the university library. It was co-organised by the Students' Union, the HKU Academic Staff Association, the HKU Alumni Concern Group, and 18 professional institutes representing lawyers, accountants, surveyors, information technology workers, nurses, social workers, psychologists, and other professions. The organisers called the council's decision \"unprecedented and naked political interference\" in university affairs and said that it undermines \"Hong Kong values\" in demonstrating that hard work and competence may be worthless if you have political views deemed unacceptable by the establishment.\n\nThe US-China Economic and Security Review Commission published its annual report in mid-November drawing attention to declining press and academic freedom in Hong Kong. It specifically mentioned the controversy surrounding the appointment of Chan to pro-vice-chancellor of the university.\nThe HK government retorted that Hong Kong enjoyed a high degree of autonomy under one country, two systems enshrined in the Basic Law, adding that the eight \"University Grants Committee-funded institutions were all independent and autonomous statutory bodies\". The government warned foreign governments and legislatures that they \"should not interfere in any form in Hong Kong's internal affairs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "892247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892247", "title": "Widecombe Fair", "text": "Widecombe Fair\n\nWidecombe Fair is a fair that takes place annually in the Dartmoor village of Widecombe-in-the-Moor, on the second Tuesday in September. It is well known as the subject of the folk song of the same name, featuring Uncle Tom Cobley and his friends.\n\nThe earliest written record was in 1850, when it was described in the Plymouth Gazette as ‘a cattle fair’. It soon became an opportunity to show and sell other livestock - particularly locally-bred sheep and Dartmoor ponies, and by the 1920s it had also become a sports day for local schoolchildren. In 1933, stalls were introduced, selling rural arts and crafts.\n\nWidecombe Fair was suspended during the Second World War, but reinstated in 1945 with new attractions, including a gymkhana and tug of war. All profits were donated to the 'Local Welcome Home Fund' for returning soldiers, sailors and airmen. \n\nIn 1989, it was decided to cancel the pony classes following an outbreak of Equine flu (these were replaced with terrier races, which have continued ever since). The Fair was cancelled altogether in 2001 due to the outbreak of Foot and Mouth Disease.\n\nHowever, despite these interruptions, the event has steadily grown in size and reputation. In its earlier years, it was held in various locations around the village, including the village green. Today, however, it occupies a large field to the south of Widecombe (known to locals as The Fair Field). Other fields become car parks, and a complex policing and marshalling system is put in place, with the narrow lanes transformed into a one-way road system.\n\nToday's visitors will still see displays of quality livestock, although there are many other attractions, including: a dog show, displays of local produce, vintage farm machinery, rural arts and crafts, bale tossing and a now traditional appearance by Uncle Tom Cobley himself - featuring a local resident in fancy dress, riding a grey mare.\n\n"}
{"id": "35227991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35227991", "title": "World Education Games", "text": "World Education Games\n\nThe World Education Games (WEG) is a Global Online Event for all schools and students around the world and is held semi annually during the month of October. It is the expanded format of what was once known as World Maths Day but it now includes World Literacy Day and World Science Day too. It is organized by the 3PLearning and sponsored by Microsoft, UNICEF, 3P Learning and MACQUARIE. The World Maths Day holds the 'Guinness World Record' for the Largest Online Maths Competition in 2010. Its Global Ambassador is 'Scott Flansburg' aka the \"Human Calculator\"\".\"\n\nIts inception with the expanded format was in 2012 when 5,960,862 students from 240 countries and territories around the world competed with each other. In 2013, it was held March 5–7.\n\nThe World Education Games had taken place October 13 through 15, 2015, where over 6 Million students joined worldwide from over 20,000 schools in 159 countries and raised over $100,000 which will help send 33,000 students to school.\n\nThe World Education Games is a major free online educational competition-style event, hosted by the global e-learning provider 3P Learning (creators of subscription-based e-learning platforms designed primarily for schools - such as Mathletics, Spellodrome and IntoScience).\n\nThe World Education Games (or WEG) had its origins purely as a mathematics-based event, then known as World Maths Day in 2007. The event was powered by 3P Learning's flagship online learning resource, Mathletics.\n\nIn 2011, the event expanded to include a second subject (World Spelling Day, renamed World Literacy Day in 2013), followed a year later by a third subject (World Science Day) and at which point the event took on the fully encompassing World Education Games name and branding.\n\nSince 2012 The World Education Games has been collaborating with UNICEF in the framework of a program called \"School in a Box\" that supports the development of education in regions that are affected by various disasters and poverty.\n\nSummary: Participation in the Games is open to all students from any country and is completely free. Registration is required and an access to the internet is a must. Students are matched according to their age/ grade levels or abilities if such is requested by their teachers. Students play randomly against other students from all over the world. Students answer as many questions as possible during the allotted time for each Game.\n\nCorrect answers get points, wrong answers no points and three wrong answers end the game prematurely. Each student plays and scored for the points accumulated during the first 20 games only.\n\nResults are announced after counting all the points and after the organizers had communicated with the parents/ teachers of possible winners and ensured that they had participated in the Games under their own registered accounts. Multiple registrations and/ or playing under someone's else account is a violation punishable by annulling the results of everyone involved.\nWinners are the students who score the highest points in their grade level in each competition separately and in total.\n\nSchools are also awarded for receiving the highest point-average in each grade level as long as at least 10 students had participated from that school.\n\nTop 100 participants also get their achievements listed on the Hall of Fame.\n\nStudents who win their regional lead-up events in their countries are hand-picked to become Ambassadors.\n\n\n\n\nThe Winners of each group are awarded a 'Minted Gold medal' and the Top Ten in each group receive 'Gold Medals'. There are also various other prizes including Trophies, Certificates, etc.Full list of Winners including Top Ten in each category is available at the official website of World Education Games.\n\nThe complete list of various prizes and cups over the years can be found in the official website of World Education Games\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "15824709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15824709", "title": "Åbo Svenska Theater", "text": "Åbo Svenska Theater\n\nÅbo Svenska Theater (Åbo Svenska Teater) is a Finland-Swedish theatre in the city of Turku in Finland and the oldest theatre in the country, founded in 1839. The building itself is also the oldest still functioning theatre house in Finland. The name means \"The Swedish theatre of Åbo\"; Åbo is the Swedish name of the city of Turku.\n\nTurku was the capital city of Finland during Finland's epoch as a part of Sweden, and Swedish theatre companies visited Finland during the 18th-century, the first of whom was the Stenborg Troupe in 1761and the company of Carl Seuerling in the 1780s. There where however, no proper theatre building until the \"Bonuviers Teater\" was erected in the 1810s. When the old theatre was destroyed during the Great Fire of Turku in 1827, there was a need of a new theater house. \n\nThe theatre has been located in its present building since 1839, when it was opened by a local amateur society with the play \"Gubben i Bergsbygden\" the 21 January 1839. Later that same year, the theatre house was used by its first professional theatre company, that of Ulrik Torsslow, and its first professional concert singer, Betty Boije. In 1843, concerts by Johanna von Schoultz and Jenny Lind where both performed on its stage. \n\nPrior to 1894, the theatre did not have a permanent staff, as Finland did not have any native actors at this point, and during the 19th-century the theatre house was used by travelling theatre companies from Sweden. The most notable of these where the company of Pierre Deland, which visited the theatre regularly from 1840 to 1861, as well as the so called \"Finnish Company\" of Edvard Stjernström, which enjoyed theatre monopoly in Southern Finland in 1850-53. In the 1870s and 1880s, the famed Swedish company of Thérèse Elfforss frequnelty visited the theatre. \n\nThe first native theatre company performed in the theatre was the company of August Westermark in 1872, though it was not to be until 1894, that the first performance was given by a permanent native ensemble at the theatre.\n\nThe theatre building is owned by Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi and it is run by Åbo Svenska Teaterförening.\n\nThe theatre has three formal stages; Stora Scenen, with 365 seats, Studioscenen with 136 seats, and Tiljan-scenen, with a maximum of one hundred seats, as well as local activity.\n\n"}
