{"id": "7404467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7404467", "title": "Ambient isotopy", "text": "Ambient isotopy\n\nIn the mathematical subject of topology, an ambient isotopy, also called an \"h-isotopy\", is a kind of continuous distortion of an ambient space, for example a manifold, taking a submanifold to another submanifold. For example in knot theory, one considers two knots the same if one can distort one knot into the other without breaking it. Such a distortion is an example of an ambient isotopy. More precisely, let \"N\" and \"M\" be manifolds and \"g\" and \"h\" be embeddings of \"N\" in \"M\". A continuous map \nis defined to be an ambient isotopy taking \"g\" to \"h\" if \"F\" is the identity map, each map \"F\" is a homeomorphism from \"M\" to itself, and \"F\" ∘ \"g\" = \"h\". This implies that the orientation must be preserved by ambient isotopies. For example, two knots which are mirror images of each other are in general not equivalent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14670730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14670730", "title": "Apollo archetype", "text": "Apollo archetype\n\nThe Apollo archetype personifies the aspect of the personality that wants clear definitions, is drawn to master a skill, values order and harmony, and prefers to look at the surface, as opposed to beneath appearances. The Apollo archetype favors thinking over feeling, distance over closeness, objective assessment over subjective intuition.\n\nEarly in the 20th century, Carl Gustav Jung sought to find a word that could describe the innate patterns of behaviour that govern our lives. Thus he introduced the term ‘Archetypes’ into modern psychology. Jung described archetypes as distinct themes manifesting in the fantasies and behaviour of his patients, and found these same themes visibly rendered in the arts, religions, myths, architecture, and social customs of all peoples. Because he did not want the term ‘archetypes’ to become yet another intellectual abstraction, Jung advanced various mythic images to illustrate them. For instance, the Goddess Demeter is a presentation of the archetypal mother; Zeus an archetypal father; Apollo the archetypal intellectual, and so on. Jung went on to personify many archetypes by using general expressions such as 'The Great Mother’, 'Old Wise Man’, 'Shadow archetype’, etc. which have now become standard expressions in the field of Analytical Psychology. Jung writes “The fact that the unconscious spontaneously personifies is the reason why I have taken over these personifications in my terminology and formulated them in names”.\n\nAs with other archetypes, the Apollo archetype is not gender-specific. \"Women often find that a particular [male] god exists in them as well, just as I found that when I spoke about goddesses men could identify a part of themselves with a specific goddess. Gods and goddesses represent different qualities in the human psyche. The pantheon of Greek deities together, male and female, exist as archetypes in us all… There are gods and goddesses in every person.\"\n\nIn addition to the many positive aspects of the Apollo archetype such as order, reason, moderation, harmoniousness, and unemotional perfection, archetypal psychologist James Hillman suggests that the archetype may also manifest as a negative potential if it becomes overly dominant: \"Apollo certainly presents a pattern that is disastrous, destructive for psychological life, cut off from everything that has to do with feminine ways, whether Cassandra or Creusa or Daphne — whomever he touches goes wrong — so that you have the feeling that Apollo simply doesn't belong where there is psyche.\"\n\nOf what she describes as the negative Apollonic influence, Dr. Shinoda-Bolen writes:\n"}
{"id": "51801037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51801037", "title": "Beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar", "text": "Beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar\n\nThe beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar by Pakistani soldiers and over two-dozen HuJI terrorists led by Ilyas Kashmiri happened in the Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, India on 27 February 2000. Talekar was an Indian soldier on guard duty at the Ashok Listening Post which is surrounded on three sides by Pakistani posts. His post was attacked under the cover of mortar and rocket fire from Pakistani troops in which all seven soldiers on duty from the 17 Maratha Light Infantry battalion were killed. Talekar was beheaded and his severed head was carried across the line of control.\n\nAfter the beheading of Talekar, allegations of other incidents of beheading by both countries have frequently been reported.\n\nTalekar was a resident of Kolgaon village in Ahmednagar district, Maharashtra, India. He was the son of daily laborers and had studied till the 10th grade before joining the army. He was unmarried and 24 years old at the time of his death. According to natives of his village, the family of Talekar did not knew that he was beheaded. The army declined the Talekar's sister request to see his face. His last rites were performed at his village.\n\nIn the early hours of 27 February 2000, a guerilla attack led by Ilyas Kashmiri and twenty-five HuJI terrorists was launched at the Ashok Lightening Post, Nowshehra sector in the Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, India. The attack was covered by heavy mortar and rocket fire from Pakistani soldiers, which were dressed in black uniform and reported to be from Special Services Group. The Indian post is surrounded on all three sides by the Pakistani posts and is said to be an unfavorable position. Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar was on guard duty, and other seven soldiers of the 17 Maratha Light Infantry were in the bunker at the time of incident. Ilyas Kashmiri slit Talekar's throat and thereafter other terrorists accompanying him opened fire inside bunker in which all seven soldiers were killed.\n\nThe head of Talekar was taken across the Line of Control in Pakistan by the terrorists and was brandished as a trophy before the public. According to Indian Army, Talekar was the first casualty of the attack. A captured terrorist revealed that they had played football with the head of Talekar.\n\nPakistan denied that its soldiers were involved in the incident.\n\nPakistani media published the photographs of Ilyas Kasmiri carrying the severed head of Talekar. It also reported that the then president of Pakistan Gen. Pervez Musharraf honored Ilyas Kashmiri in a ceremony and rewarded his one-lakh ruppes cash for bringing the head of an Indian soldier. Ilyas Kashmiri, was killed in a US drone attack in 2011.\n\nThe commanding officer of the unit was Colonel Sandes. He had communicated to the superiors seeking permission to shift the Ashok listening post because of the possibility of a sneaking attack such as the one which happened on the 27 February 2000, but he was denied permission. He faced a court of inquiry after the incident which exonerated him, but his superiors had reported that colonel Sandes was unfit for commanding a unit. The colonel had to fight a legal battle to be eligible for promotion. Sandes was promoted to the rank of Brigadier in 2010.\n\nThe army took up the responsibility of the education of his sister after the incident. His family continues to receive a pension of 10,000 per month. A sum of 12 lakh rupees was given to Talekar's family as compensation.\n\nIn his memory, a community hall was built in his village. His sister is pursuing the hope to start a school for special children in his memory.\n\nSince the torture and murder of Saurabh Kalia during the Kargil war in the custody of Pakistani troops; many allegations of mistreatment of soldiers by the other side have been reported from Kashmir. The beheading of Talekar happened one year after the Kargil war ended. Pakistan has filed complaints with the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) accusing the Indian Army of beheading at least a dozen Pakistani soldiers since 1998. India has denied these allegations. In one decade before 2013, when Lance Naik Hemraj was beheaded, there have been at least three other such instances of decapitation of Indian soldiers by the Pakistani troops.\n\n"}
{"id": "56369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56369", "title": "Bell's theorem", "text": "Bell's theorem\n\nBell's theorem is a \"no-go theorem\" that draws an important distinction between quantum mechanics and the world as described by classical mechanics, particularly concerning \"quantum entanglement\" where two or more particles in a \"quantum state\" continue to be mutually dependent, even at large physical separations. This theorem is named after John Stewart Bell.\n\nA series of experiments has verified the theorem and showed that quantum entanglement occurs over large distances. \nQuantum entanglement has profound implications for the outcomes of measurements of quantum systems; for example, in \"quantum computing\".\n\nIn its simplest form, Bell's theorem states:\n\nCornell solid-state physicist David Mermin has described the appraisals of the importance of Bell's theorem in the physics community as ranging from \"indifference\" to \"wild extravagance\". Lawrence Berkeley particle physicist Henry Stapp declared: \"Bell's theorem is the most profound discovery of science.\"\n\nBell's theorem rules out local hidden variables as a viable explanation of quantum mechanics (though it still leaves the door open for non-local hidden variables, such as De Broglie–Bohm theory, etc). Bell concluded:\n\nBell summarized one of the least popular ways to address the theorem, superdeterminism, in a 1985 BBC Radio interview:\n\nIn the early 1930s, the philosophical implications of the current interpretations of quantum theory troubled many prominent physicists of the day, including Albert Einstein. In a well-known 1935 paper, Boris Podolsky and co-authors Einstein and Nathan Rosen (collectively \"EPR\") sought to demonstrate by the EPR paradox that quantum mechanics was incomplete. This provided hope that a more complete (and less troubling) theory might one day be discovered. But that conclusion rested on the seemingly reasonable assumptions of \"locality\" and \"realism\" (together called \"local realism\" or \"local hidden variables\", often interchangeably). In the vernacular of Einstein: locality meant no instantaneous (\"spooky\") action at a distance; realism meant the moon is there even when not being observed. These assumptions were hotly debated in the physics community, notably between Einstein and Niels Bohr.\n\nIn his groundbreaking 1964 paper, \"On the Einstein Podolsky Rosen paradox\", physicist John Stewart Bell presented an analogy (based on spin measurements on pairs of entangled electrons) to EPR's hypothetical paradox. Using their reasoning, he said, a choice of measurement setting here should not affect the outcome of a measurement there (and vice versa). After providing a mathematical formulation of locality and realism based on this, he showed specific cases where this would be inconsistent with the predictions of quantum mechanics theory.\n\nIn experimental tests following Bell's example, now using quantum entanglement of photons instead of electrons, John Clauser and Stuart Freedman (1972) and Alain Aspect \"et al\". (1981) demonstrated that the predictions of quantum mechanics are correct in this regard, although relying on additional unverifiable assumptions that open loopholes for local realism.\n\nIn October 2015, Hensen and co-workers reported that they performed a loophole-free Bell test which might force one to reject at least one of the principles of locality, realism, or freedom-of-choice (the last \"could\" lead to alternative superdeterministic theories). Two of these logical possibilities, non-locality and non-realism, correspond to well-developed interpretations of quantum mechanics, and have many supporters; this is not the case for the third logical possibility, non-freedom. Conclusive experimental evidence of the violation of Bell's inequality would drastically reduce the class of acceptable deterministic theories but would not falsify absolute determinism, which was described by Bell himself as \"not just inanimate nature running on behind-the-scenes clockwork, but with our behaviour, including our belief that we are free to choose to do one experiment rather than another, absolutely predetermined\". However, Bell himself considered absolute determinism an implausible solution.\n\nBell's theorem states that any physical theory that incorporates local realism cannot reproduce all the predictions of quantum mechanical theory. Because numerous experiments agree with the predictions of quantum mechanical theory, and show differences between correlations that could not be explained by local hidden variables, the experimental results have been taken by many as refuting the concept of local realism as an explanation of the physical phenomena under test. For a hidden variable theory, if Bell's conditions are correct, the results that agree with quantum mechanical theory appear to indicate superluminal (faster-than-light) effects, in contradiction to the principle of locality.\n\nThese three key concepts – locality, realism, freedom – are highly technical and much debated. In particular, the concept of \"realism\" is now somewhat different from what it was in discussions in the 1930s. It is more precisely called \"counterfactual definiteness\"; it means that we may think of outcomes of measurements that were not actually performed as being just as much part of reality as those that were made. \"Locality\" is short for \"local relativistic causality\". (Currently accepted quantum field theories \"are\" local in the terminology of the Lagrangian formalism and axiomatic approach.) \"Freedom\" refers to the physical possibility of determining settings on measurement devices independently of the internal state of the physical system being measured.\n\nThe theorem is usually proved by consideration of a quantum system of two entangled qubits. The most common examples concern systems of particles that are entangled in spin or polarization. Quantum mechanics allows predictions of correlations that would be observed if these two particles have their spin or polarization measured in different directions. Bell showed that if a local hidden variable theory holds, then these correlations would have to satisfy certain constraints, called Bell inequalities. However, for the quantum correlations arising in the specific example considered, those constraints are not satisfied, hence the phenomenon being studied cannot be explained by a local hidden variables theory.\n\nFollowing the argument in the Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen (EPR) paradox paper (but using the example of spin, as in David Bohm's version of the EPR argument), Bell considered an experiment in which there are \"a pair of spin one-half particles formed somehow in the singlet spin state and moving freely in opposite directions.\" The two particles travel away from each other to two distant locations, at which measurements of spin are performed, along axes that are independently chosen. Each measurement yields a result of either spin-up (+) or spin-down (−); it means, spin in the positive or negative direction of the chosen axis.\n\nThe probability of the same result being obtained at the two locations depends on the relative angles at which the two spin measurements are made, and is strictly between zero and one for all relative angles other than perfectly parallel or antiparallel alignments (0° or 180°). Since total angular momentum is conserved, and since the total spin is zero in the singlet state, the probability of the same result with parallel (antiparallel) alignment is 0 (1). This last prediction is true classically as well as quantum mechanically.\n\nBell's theorem is concerned with correlations defined in terms of averages taken over very many trials of the experiment. The correlation of two binary variables is usually defined in quantum physics as the average of the products of the pairs of measurements. Note that this is different from the usual definition of correlation in statistics. The quantum physicist's \"correlation\" is the statistician's \"raw (uncentered, unnormalized) product moment\". They are similar in that, with either definition, if the pairs of outcomes are always the same, the correlation is +1; if the pairs of outcomes are always opposite, the correlation is -1; and if the pairs of outcomes agree 50% of the time, then the correlation is 0. The correlation is related in a simple way to the probability of equal outcomes, namely it is equal to twice the probability of equal outcomes, minus one.\n\nMeasuring the spin of these entangled particles along anti-parallel directions—i.e., along the same axis but in opposite directions, the set of all results is perfectly correlated. On the other hand, if measurements are performed along parallel directions they always yield opposite results, and the set of measurements shows perfect anti-correlation. This is in accord with the above stated probabilities of measuring the same result in these two cases. Finally, measurement at perpendicular directions has a 50% chance of matching, and the total set of measurements is uncorrelated. These basic cases are illustrated in the table below. Columns should be read as \"examples\" of pairs of values that could be recorded by Alice and Bob with time increasing going to the right.\n\nWith the measurements oriented at intermediate angles between these basic cases, the existence of local hidden variables could agree with/would be consistent with a linear dependence of the correlation in the angle but, according to Bell's inequality (see below), could not agree with the dependence predicted by quantum mechanical theory, namely, that the correlation is the negative cosine of the angle. Experimental results match the curve predicted by quantum mechanics.\n\nOver the years, Bell's theorem has undergone a wide variety of experimental tests. However, various common deficiencies in the testing of the theorem have been identified, including the \"detection loophole\" and the \"communication loophole\". Over the years experiments have been gradually improved to better address these loopholes. In 2015, the first experiment to simultaneously address all of the loopholes was performed.\n\nTo date, Bell's theorem is generally regarded as supported by a substantial body of evidence and there are few supporters of local hidden variables, though the theorem is continually the subject of study, criticism, and refinement.\n\nBell's theorem, derived in his seminal 1964 paper titled \"On the Einstein Podolsky Rosen paradox\", has been called, on the assumption that the theory is correct, \"the most profound in science\". Perhaps of equal importance is Bell's deliberate effort to encourage and bring legitimacy to work on the completeness issues, which had fallen into disrepute. Later in his life, Bell expressed his hope that such work would \"continue to inspire those who suspect that what is proved by the impossibility proofs is lack of imagination.\"\n\nThe title of Bell's seminal article refers to the 1935 paper by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen that challenged the completeness of quantum mechanics. In his paper, Bell started from the same two assumptions as did EPR, namely (i) \"reality\" (that microscopic objects have real properties determining the outcomes of quantum mechanical measurements), and (ii) \"locality\" (that reality in one location is not influenced by measurements performed simultaneously at a distant location). Bell was able to derive from those two assumptions an important result, namely Bell's inequality. The theoretical (and later experimental) violation of this inequality implies that at least one of the two assumptions must be false.\n\nIn two respects Bell's 1964 paper was a step forward compared to the EPR paper: firstly, it considered more hidden variables than merely the element of physical reality in the EPR paper; and Bell's inequality was, in part, experimentally testable, thus raising the possibility of testing the local realism hypothesis. Limitations on such tests to date are noted below. Whereas Bell's paper deals only with deterministic hidden variable theories, Bell's theorem was later generalized to stochastic theories as well, and it was also realised that the theorem is not so much about hidden variables, as about the outcomes of measurements that could have been taken instead of the one actually taken. Existence of these variables is called the assumption of realism, or the assumption of counterfactual definiteness.\n\nAfter the EPR paper, quantum mechanics was in an unsatisfactory position: either it was incomplete, in the sense that it failed to account for some elements of physical reality, or it violated the principle of a finite propagation speed of physical effects. In a modified version of the EPR thought experiment, two hypothetical observers, now commonly referred to as \"Alice\" and \"Bob\", perform independent measurements of spin on a pair of electrons, prepared at a source in a special state called a \"spin singlet state\". It is the conclusion of EPR that once Alice measures spin in one direction (e.g. on the \"x\" axis), Bob's measurement in that direction is determined with certainty, as being the opposite outcome to that of Alice, whereas immediately before Alice's measurement Bob's outcome was only statistically determined (i.e., was only a probability, not a certainty); thus, either the spin in each direction is an \"element of physical reality\", or the effects travel from Alice to Bob instantly.\n\nIn QM, predictions are formulated in terms of probabilities — for example, the probability that an electron will be detected in a particular place, or the probability that its spin is up or down. The idea persisted, however, that the electron in fact has a \"definite\" position and spin, and that QM's weakness is its inability to predict those values precisely. The possibility existed that some unknown theory, such as a \"hidden variables theory\", might be able to predict those quantities exactly, while at the same time also being in complete agreement with the probabilities predicted by QM. If such a hidden variables theory exists, then because the hidden variables are not described by QM the latter would be an incomplete theory.\n\nThe concept of local realism is formalized to state, and prove, Bell's theorem and generalizations. A common approach is the following:\n\nPerfect anti-correlation would require . Implicit in assumption 1) above, the hidden parameter space has a probability measure and the expectation of a random variable on with respect to is written\n\nwhere for accessibility of notation we assume that the probability measure has a probability density that therefore is nonnegative and integrates to . The hidden parameter is often thought of as being associated with the source but it can just as well also contain components associated with the two measurement devices.\n\nBell inequalities concern measurements made by observers on pairs of particles that have interacted and then separated. Assuming local realism, certain constraints must hold on the relationships between the correlations between subsequent measurements of the particles under various possible measurement settings. Let and be as above. Define for the present purposes three correlation functions:\nThe two-particle spin space is the tensor product of the two-dimensional spin Hilbert spaces of the individual particles. Each individual space is an irreducible representation space of the rotation group SO(3). The product space decomposes as a direct sum of irreducible representations with definite total spins and of dimensions and respectively. Full details may be found in Clebsch—Gordan decomposition. The total spin zero subspace is spanned by the singlet state in the product space, a vector explicitly given by\n\nwith adjoint in this representation\n\nThe way single particle operators act on the product space is exemplified below by the example at hand; one defines the tensor product of operators, where the factors are single particle operators, thus if are single particle operators,\n\nand\n\netc., where the superscript in parentheses indicates on which Hilbert space in the tensor product space the action is intended and the action is defined by the right hand side. The singlet state has total spin as may be verified by application of the operator of total spin by a calculation similar to that presented below.\n\nThe expectation value of the operator\n\nin the singlet state can be calculated straightforwardly. One has, by definition of the Pauli matrices,\n\nUpon left application of this on one obtains\n\nLikewise, application (to the left) of the operator corresponding to on yields\n\nThe inner products on the tensor product space is defined by\n\nGiven this, the expectation value reduces to\n\nWith this notation, a concise summary of what follows can be made.\n\nThe inequality that Bell derived can then be written as:\n\nwhere and refer to three arbitrary settings of the two analysers. This inequality is however restricted in its application to the rather special case in which the outcomes on both sides of the experiment are always exactly anticorrelated whenever the analysers are parallel. The advantage of restricting attention to this special case is the resulting simplicity of the derivation. In experimental work, the inequality is not very useful because it is hard, if not impossible, to create \"perfect\" anti-correlation.\n\nThis simple form has an intuitive explanation, however. It is equivalent to the following elementary result from probability theory. Consider three (highly correlated, and possibly biased) coin-flips , and \"Z\", with the property that:\n\nthen \"X\" and \"Z\" must also yield the same outcome at least 98% of the time. The number of mismatches between \"X\" and \"Y\" (1/100) plus the number of mismatches between \"Y\" and \"Z\" (1/100) are together the \"maximum possible\" number of mismatches between \"X\" and \"Z\" (a simple Boole–Fréchet inequality).\n\nImagine a pair of particles that can be measured at distant locations. Suppose that the measurement devices have settings, which are angles—e.g., the devices measure something called spin in some direction. The experimenter chooses the directions, one for each particle, separately. Suppose the measurement outcome is binary (e.g., spin up, spin down). Suppose the two particles are perfectly anti-correlated—in the sense that whenever both measured in the same direction, one gets identically opposite outcomes, when both measured in opposite directions they always give the same outcome. The only way to imagine how this works is that both particles leave their common source with, somehow, the outcomes they will deliver when measured in any possible direction. (How else could particle 1 know how to deliver the same answer as particle 2 when measured in the same direction? They don't know in advance how they are going to be measured...). The measurement on particle 2 (after switching its sign) can be thought of as telling us what the same measurement on particle 1 would have given.\n\nStart with one setting exactly opposite to the other. All the pairs of particles give the same outcome (each pair is either both spin up or both spin down). Now shift Alice's setting by one degree relative to Bob's. They are now one degree off being exactly opposite to one another. A small fraction of the pairs, say \"f\", now give different outcomes. If instead we had left Alice's setting unchanged but shifted Bob's by one degree (in the opposite direction), then again a fraction \"f\" of the pairs of particles turns out to give different outcomes. Finally consider what happens when both shifts are implemented at the same time: the two settings are now exactly two degrees away from being opposite to one another. By the mismatch argument, the chance of a mismatch at two degrees can't be more than twice the chance of a mismatch at one degree: it cannot be more than 2\"f\".\n\nCompare this with the predictions from quantum mechanics for the singlet state. For a small angle , measured in radians, the chance of a different outcome is approximately formula_20 as explained by small-angle approximation. At two times this small angle, the chance of a mismatch is therefore about 4 times larger, since formula_21. But we just argued that it cannot be more than 2 times as large.\n\nThis intuitive formulation is due to David Mermin. The small-angle limit is discussed in Bell's original article, and therefore goes right back to the origin of the Bell inequalities.\n\nGeneralizing Bell's original inequality, John Clauser, Michael Horne, Abner Shimony and R. A. Holt introduced the CHSH inequality, which puts classical limits on the set of four correlations in Alice and Bob's experiment, without any assumption of perfect correlations (or anti-correlations) at equal settings\n\nMaking the special choice formula_23, denoting formula_24, and assuming perfect anti-correlation at equal settings, perfect correlation at opposite settings, therefore formula_25 and formula_26, the CHSH inequality reduces to the original Bell inequality. Nowadays, (1) is also often simply called \"the Bell inequality\", but sometimes more completely \"the Bell-CHSH inequality\".\n\nWith abbreviated notation\n\nthe CHSH inequality can be derived as follows. Each of the four quantities is and each depends on . It follows that for any , one of and is zero, and the other is . From this it follows that\n\nand therefore\n\nAt the heart of this derivation is a simple algebraic inequality concerning four variables, , which take the values only:\n\nThe CHSH inequality is seen to depend only on the following three key features of a local hidden variables theory: (1) realism: alongside of the outcomes of actually performed measurements, the outcomes of potentially performed measurements also exist at the same time; (2) locality, the outcomes of measurements on Alice's particle don't depend on which measurement Bob chooses to perform on the other particle; (3) freedom: Alice and Bob can indeed choose freely which measurements to perform.\n\nThe \"realism\" assumption is actually somewhat idealistic, and Bell's theorem only proves non-locality with respect to variables that only \"exist\" for metaphysical reasons. However, before the discovery of quantum mechanics, both realism and locality were completely uncontroversial features of physical theories.\n\nThe measurements performed by Alice and Bob are spin measurements on electrons. Alice can choose between two detector settings labeled \"a\" and \"a\"′; these settings correspond to measurement of spin along the \"z\" or the \"x\" axis. Bob can choose between two detector settings labeled \"b\" and \"b\"′; these correspond to measurement of spin along the \"z\"′ or \"x\"′ axis, where the coordinate system is rotated 135° relative to the coordinate system. The spin observables are represented by the 2 × 2 self-adjoint matrices:\n\nThese are the Pauli spin matrices normalized so that the corresponding eigenvalues are . As is customary, we use the bra–ket notation to denote the eigenvectors of by\n\nLet formula_33 be the spin singlet state for a pair of electrons discussed in the EPR paradox. This is a specially constructed state described by the following vector in the tensor product\n\nNow let us apply the CHSH formalism to the measurements that can be performed by Alice and Bob.\n\nThe operators formula_36 correspond to Bob's spin measurements along \"x\"′ and \"z\"′. Note that the operators commute with the operators, so we can apply our calculation for the correlation. In this case, we can show that the CHSH inequality fails. In fact, a straightforward calculation shows that \n\nso that\n\nBell's Theorem: If the quantum mechanical formalism is correct, then the system consisting of a pair of entangled electrons cannot satisfy the principle of local realism. Note that is indeed the upper bound for quantum mechanics called Tsirelson's bound. The operators giving this maximal value are always isomorphic to the Pauli matrices.\n\nExperimental tests can determine whether the Bell inequalities required by local realism hold up to the empirical evidence.\n\nActually, most experiments have been performed using polarization of photons rather than spin of electrons (or other spin-half particles). The quantum state of the pair of entangled photons is not the singlet state, and the correspondence between angles and outcomes is different from that in the spin-half set-up. The polarization of a photon is measured in a pair of perpendicular directions. Relative to a given orientation, polarization is either vertical (denoted by V or by +) or horizontal (denoted by H or by -). The photon pairs are generated in the quantum state\n\nwhere formula_40 and formula_41 denotes the state of a single vertically or horizontally polarized photon, respectively (relative to a fixed and common reference direction for both particles).\n\nWhen the polarization of both photons is measured in the same direction, both give the same outcome: perfect correlation. When measured at directions making an angle 45° with one another, the outcomes are completely random (uncorrelated). Measuring at directions at 90° to one another, the two are perfectly anti-correlated. In general, when the polarizers are at an angle to one another, the correlation is . So relative to the correlation function for the singlet state of spin half particles, we have a positive rather than a negative cosine function, and angles are halved: the correlation is periodic with period instead of .\n\nBell's inequalities are tested by \"coincidence counts\" from a Bell test experiment such as the optical one shown in the diagram. Pairs of particles are emitted as a result of a quantum process, analysed with respect to some key property such as polarisation direction, then detected. The setting (orientations) of the analysers are selected by the experimenter.\n\nBell test experiments to date overwhelmingly violate Bell's inequality.\n\nThe \"fair sampling\" problem was faced openly in the 1970s. In early designs of their 1973 experiment, Freedman and Clauser used \"fair sampling\" in the form of the Clauser–Horne–Shimony–Holt (CHSH) hypothesis. However, shortly afterwards Clauser and Horne made the important distinction between inhomogeneous (IBI) and homogeneous (HBI) Bell inequalities. Testing an IBI requires that we compare certain coincidence rates in two separated detectors with the singles rates of the two detectors. Nobody needed to perform the experiment, because singles rates with all detectors in the 1970s were at least ten times all the coincidence rates. So, taking into account this low detector efficiency, the QM prediction actually satisfied the IBI. To arrive at an experimental design in which the QM prediction violates IBI we require detectors whose efficiency exceeds 82.8% for singlet states, but have very low dark rate and short dead and resolving times. This is now within reach.\n\nBecause, at that time, even the best detectors didn't detect a large fraction of all photons, Clauser and Horne recognized that testing Bell's inequality required some extra assumptions. They introduced the \"No Enhancement Hypothesis\" (NEH):\n\nGiven this assumption, there is a Bell inequality between the coincidence rates with polarizers and coincidence rates without polarizers.\n\nThe experiment was performed by Freedman and Clauser, who found that the Bell's inequality was violated. So the no-enhancement hypothesis cannot be true in a local hidden variables model.\n\nWhile early experiments used atomic cascades, later experiments have used parametric down-conversion, following a suggestion by Reid and Walls, giving improved generation and detection properties. As a result, the most recent experiments with photons no longer suffer from the detection loophole (see Bell test experiments). This makes the photon the first experimental system for which all main experimental loopholes have been surmounted, albeit presently only in separate experiments (Giustina et al. (2013), \"Bell violation using entangled photons without the fair-sampling assumption\", Nature 497, 227–230; B.G. Christensen et al. (2013), \"Detection-Loophole-Free Test of Quantum Nonlocality, and Applications\", arXiv:1306.5772).\n\nMost advocates of the hidden-variables idea believe that experiments have ruled out local hidden variables. They are ready to give up locality, explaining the violation of Bell's inequality by means of a non-local hidden variable theory, in which the particles exchange information about their states. This is the basis of the Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics, which requires that all particles in the universe be able to instantaneously exchange information with all others. A 2007 experiment ruled out a large class of non-Bohmian non-local hidden variable theories.\n\nIf the hidden variables can communicate with each other faster than light, Bell's inequality can easily be violated. Once one particle is measured, it can communicate the necessary correlations to the other particle. Since in relativity the notion of simultaneity is not absolute, this is unattractive. One idea is to replace instantaneous communication with a process that travels backwards in time along the past light cone. This is the idea behind a transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics, which interprets the statistical emergence of a quantum history as a gradual coming to agreement between histories that go both forward and backward in time.\n\nA few advocates of deterministic models have not given up on local hidden variables. For example, Gerard 't Hooft has argued that the superdeterminism loophole cannot be dismissed.\n\nA possible (but not universally accepted) solution is offered by the many worlds theory of quantum mechanics. According to this, not only is collapse of the wave function illusory, but the apparent random branching of possible futures when quantum systems interact with the macroscopic world is also an illusion. Measurement does not lead to a random choice of possible outcome; rather, the only ingredient of quantum mechanics is the unitary evolution of the wave function. All possibilities co-exist forever and the only reality is the quantum mechanical wave function. According to this view, two distant observers both split into superpositions when measuring a spin. The Bell inequality violations are no longer counterintuitive, because it is not clear which copy of the observer B will be seen by observer A when they compare notes. If reality includes all the different outcomes, locality in physical space (not outcome space) places no restrictions on how the split observers can meet up.\n\nThis point underlines the fact that the argument that realism is incompatible with quantum mechanics and locality depends on a particular formalization of the concept of realism. In its weakest form, the assumption underpinning that particular formalization is called counterfactual definiteness. This is the assumption that outcomes of measurements that are not performed are just as real as those of measurements that were performed. Counterfactual definiteness is an uncontroversial property of all classical physical theories prior to quantum theory, due to their determinism. Many worlds interpretations are not only counterfactually indefinite, but are also factually indefinite. The results of all experiments, even ones that have been performed, are not uniquely determined.\n\nIf one chooses to reject counterfactual definiteness, reality has been made smaller, and there is no non-locality problem. On the other hand, one is thereby introducing irreducible or intrinsic randomness into our picture of the world: randomness that cannot be \"explained\" as merely the reflection of our ignorance of underlying, variable, physical quantities. Non-determinism becomes a fundamental property of nature.\n\nAssuming counterfactual definiteness, reality has been enlarged, and there is a non-locality problem. On the other hand, in the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, reality consists only of a deterministically evolving wave function and non-locality is a non-issue.\n\nThere have also been repeated claims that Bell's arguments are irrelevant because they depend on hidden assumptions that, in fact, are questionable. For example, E. T. Jaynes claimed in 1989 that there are two hidden assumptions in Bell's theorem that could limit its generality. According to him:\n\nHowever, Richard D. Gill has argued that Jaynes misunderstood Bell's analysis. Gill points out that in the same conference volume in which Jaynes argues against Bell, Jaynes confesses to being extremely impressed by a short proof by Steve Gull presented at the same conference, that the singlet correlations could not be reproduced by a computer simulation of a local hidden variables theory. According to Jaynes (writing nearly 30 years after Bell's landmark contributions), it would probably take us another 30 years to fully appreciate Gull's stunning result.\n\nIn 2006 a flurry of activity about implications for determinism arose with the paper: \"The Free Will Theorem\" which stated \"the response of a spin 1 particle to a triple experiment is free—that is to say, is not a function of properties of that part of the universe that is earlier than this response with respect to any given inertial frame.\" This theorem raised awareness of a tension between determinism fully governing an experiment (on the one hand) and Alice and Bob being free to choose any settings they like for their observations (on the other). The philosopher David Hodgson supports this theorem as showing that determinism is \"unscientific\", and that quantum mechanics allows observers (at least in some instances) the freedom to make observations of their choosing, thereby leaving the door open for free will.\n\nThe violations of Bell's inequalities, due to quantum entanglement, provide near definitive demonstrations of something that was already strongly suspected: that quantum physics cannot be represented by any version of the classical picture of physics. Some earlier elements that had seemed incompatible with classical pictures included complementarity and wavefunction collapse. The Bell violations show that no resolution of such issues can avoid the ultimate strangeness of quantum behavior.\n\nThe EPR paper \"pinpointed\" the unusual properties of the \"entangled states\", e.g. the above-mentioned singlet state, which is the foundation for present-day applications of quantum physics, such as quantum cryptography; one application involves the measurement of quantum entanglement as a physical source of bits for Rabin's oblivious transfer protocol. This non-locality was originally supposed to be illusory, because the standard interpretation could easily do away with action-at-a-distance by simply assigning to each particle definite spin-states for all possible spin directions. The EPR argument was: therefore these definite states exist, therefore quantum theory is incomplete, since they do not appear in the theory. Bell's theorem showed that the \"entangledness\" prediction of quantum mechanics has a degree of non-locality that cannot be explained away by any local theory.\n\nWhat is powerful about Bell's theorem is that it doesn't refer to any particular physical theory. It shows that nature violates the most general assumptions behind classical pictures, not just details of some particular models. No combination of local deterministic and local random variables can reproduce the phenomena predicted by quantum mechanics and repeatedly observed in experiments.\n\n\nThe following are intended for general audiences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22875274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22875274", "title": "Boundary (real estate)", "text": "Boundary (real estate)\n\nA unit of real estate or immovable property is limited by a legal boundary (sometimes also referred to as a property line or a lot line). The boundary (in Latin: \"limes\") may appear as a discontinuation in the terrain: a ditch, a bank, a hedge, a wall, or similar, but essentially, a legal boundary is a conceptual entity, a social construct, adjunct to the likewise abstract entity of property rights.\n\nA cadastral map displays how boundaries subdivide land into units of ownership. However, the relations between society, owner, and land in any culture or jurisdiction is conceived of in terms more complex than a tessellation. Therefore, the society concerned has to specify the rules and means by which the boundary concept is materialized and located on the ground.\n\nA 'Western' version of the operationalization might be a legally specified procedure, performed by a chartered surveyor, supported by statements from neighbors and pertinent documents, and resulting in official recording in the cadastre as well as boundary markings in the field. Alternatively, indigenous people represent boundaries through ephemeral performances, such as song and dance, and, when in more permanent form, e.g. paintings or carvings, in artistic or metaphorical manner.\n\nLegal boundaries are usually established by a professional surveyor using a transit and or modern Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. The coordinates of the property line are often described on a drawing called a \"plot plan\" or \"plat\" by indicating the length of the boundary along a specific compass bearing in relation to a verifiable \"point of beginning\". The metes and bounds method is also used to provide a legal description of a property.\n\nOn maps, the line may be marked with .\n\nThe ⅊ symbol may also be used in architectural drawings and CAD design to show plates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60520", "title": "Boxer Rebellion", "text": "Boxer Rebellion\n\nThe Boxer Rebellion (), Boxer Uprising, or Yihetuan Movement () was an anti-foreign, anti-colonial, and anti-Christian uprising that took place in China between 1899 and 1901, toward the end of the Qing dynasty. They were motivated by proto-nationalist sentiments and by opposition to Western colonialism and the Christian missionary activity that was associated with it.\n\nIt was initiated by the Militia United in Righteousness (\"Yihetuan\"), known in English as the \"Boxers\", for many of their members had been practitioners of Chinese martial arts, also referred to in the west as \"Chinese Boxing\". The uprising took place against a background that included severe drought and disruption caused by the growth of foreign spheres of influence. After several months of growing violence in Shandong and the North China plain against the foreign and Christian presence in June 1900, Boxer fighters, convinced they were invulnerable to foreign weapons, converged on Beijing with the slogan \"Support the Qing government and exterminate the foreigners\". Foreigners and Chinese Christians sought refuge in the Legation Quarter.\n\nIn response to reports of an armed invasion by allied American, Austro-Hungarian, British, French, German, Italian, Japanese, and Russian forces to lift the siege, the initially hesitant Empress Dowager Cixi supported the Boxers and on June21 issued an Imperial Decree declaring war on the foreign powers. Diplomats, foreign civilians, and soldiers as well as Chinese Christians in the Legation Quarter were detained for 55 days by the Imperial Army of China and the Boxers.\n\nChinese officialdom was split between those supporting the Boxers and those favoring conciliation, led by Prince Qing. The supreme commander of the Chinese forces, the Manchu General Ronglu (Junglu), later claimed he acted to protect the besieged foreigners. Many officials refused the imperial order to fight against foreigners in their Mutual Protection of Southeast China, because Qing had lost the First Sino-Japanese War five years before.\n\nThe Eight-Nation Alliance, after being initially turned back, brought 20,000 armed troops to China, defeated the Imperial Army, and arrived at Peking on August14, relieving the siege of the Legations. Uncontrolled plunder of the capital and the surrounding countryside ensued, along with the summary execution of those suspected of being Boxers.\n\nThe Boxer Protocol of 7 September 1901 provided for the execution of government officials who had supported the Boxers, provisions for foreign troops to be stationed in Beijing, and 450 million taels of silver—approximately $10 billion at 2018 silver prices and more than the government's annual tax revenue—to be paid as indemnity over the course of the next thirty-nine years to the eight nations involved. The Empress Dowager then sponsored a set of institutional and fiscal changes in a failed attempt to save the dynasty.\n\nThe Righteous and Harmonious Fists (Yihequan) arose in the inland sections of the northern coastal province of Shandong, long known for social unrest, religious sects, and martial societies. American Christian missionaries were probably the first to refer to the well-trained, athletic young men as \"Boxers\", because of the martial arts and weapons training they practiced. Their primary practice was a type of spiritual possession which involved the whirling of swords, violent prostrations, and chanting incantations to deities.\n\nThe opportunities to fight back Western encroachment and colonization were especially attractive to unemployed village men, many of whom were teenagers. The tradition of possession and invulnerability went back several hundred years but took on special meaning against the powerful new weapons of the West. The Boxers, armed with rifles and swords, claimed supernatural invulnerability towards blows of cannon, rifle shots, and knife attacks. Furthermore, the Boxer groups popularly claimed that millions of soldiers of Heaven would descend to assist them in purifying China of foreign oppression. These beliefs are characteristic of millenarian movements of nativist resistance, especially the characteristic magical belief, shared by the Ghost Dancers of North America and the Kartelite Cults of Africa, that the believer could be rendered invulnerable to bullets.\n\nIn 1895, in spite of ambivalence toward their heterodox practices, Yuxian, a Manchu who was then prefect of Caozhou and would later become provincial governor, used the Big Swords Society in fighting bandits. The Big Swords, emboldened by this official support, also attacked their local Catholic village rivals, who turned to the Church for protection. The Big Swords responded by attacking Catholic churches and burning them. \"The line between Christians and bandits\", remarks one recent historian, \"became increasingly indistinct.\" As a result of diplomatic pressure in the capital, Yuxian executed several Big Sword leaders, but did not punish anyone else. More martial secret societies started emerging after this.\n\nThe early years saw a variety of village activities, not a broad movement with a united purpose. Martial folk religious societies such as the Baguadao (Eight Trigrams) prepared the way for the Boxers. Like the Red Boxing school or the Plum Flower Boxers, the Boxers of Shandong were more concerned with traditional social and moral values, such as filial piety, than with foreign influences. One leader, Zhu Hongdeng (Red Lantern Zhu), started as a wandering healer, specializing in skin ulcers, and gained wide respect by refusing payment for his treatments. Zhu claimed descent from Ming dynasty emperors, since his surname was the surname of the Ming imperial family. He announced that his goal was to \"Revive the Qing and destroy the foreigners\" (\"扶清灭洋 \"fu Qing mie yang\"\").\n\nEuropean legations had a particular jurisdiction status in Peking: they were not subject to Chinese authorities. A den of robbers had been formed in the out-buildings of the German legation, mainly among Lutheran missionaries. They were doing pillage in the city as much as they could, then took shelter in the European legations to escape any punishment for their criminal acts, hence triggering exasperation among the townspeople. The German minister, in an attempt to stop the rising counter-movement, set himself to harrangue the mob, but he only succeeded to get himself killed in the turmoil. To avenge this outrage, a retaliation expedition was organized at once, involving most European states in the wake of Germany.\n\nThe combination of extreme weather conditions, Western attempts at colonizing China and growing anti-imperialist sentiment fueled the movement. First, a drought followed by floods in Shandong province in 1897–1898 forced farmers to flee to cities and seek food. As one observer said, \"I am convinced that a few days' heavy rainfall to terminate the long-continued drought ... would do more to restore tranquility than any measures which either the Chinese government or foreign governments can take.\"\n\nA major cause of discontent in north China was missionary activity. The Treaty of Tientsin (or Tianjin) and the Convention of Peking, signed in 1860 after the Second Opium War, had granted foreign missionaries the freedom to preach anywhere in China and to buy land on which to build churches. On 1 November 1897, a band of armed men who were perhaps members of the Big Swords Society stormed the residence of a German missionary from the Society of the Divine Word and killed two priests. This attack is known as the Juye Incident.\n\nWhen Kaiser Wilhelm II received news of these murders, he dispatched the German East Asia Squadron to occupy Jiaozhou Bay on the southern coast of the Shandong peninsula. Germany's action triggered a \"scramble for concessions\" by which Britain, France, Russia and Japan also secured their own sphere of influence in China.\n\nIn October 1898, a group of Boxers attacked the Christian community of Liyuantun village where a temple to the Jade Emperor had been converted into a Catholic church. Disputes had surrounded the church since 1869, when the temple had been granted to the Christian residents of the village. This incident marked the first time the Boxers used the slogan \"Support the Qing, destroy the foreigners\" (\"扶清灭洋 \"fu Qing mie yang\"\") that would later characterise them. The \"Boxers\" called themselves the \"Militia United in Righteousness\" for the first time one year later, at the Battle of Senluo Temple (October 1899), a clash between Boxers and Qing government troops. By using the word \"Militia\" rather than \"Boxers\", they distanced themselves from forbidden martial arts sects, and tried to give their movement the legitimacy of a group that defended orthodoxy.\n\nAggression toward missionaries and Christians drew the ire of foreign (mainly European) governments. In 1899, the French minister in Beijing helped the missionaries to obtain an edict granting official status to every order in the Roman Catholic hierarchy, enabling local priests to support their people in legal or family disputes and bypass the local officials. After the German government took over Shandong many Chinese feared that the foreign missionaries and quite possibly all Christian activities were imperialist attempts at \"carving the melon\", i.e., to divide and colonize China piece by piece. A Chinese official expressed the animosity towards foreigners succinctly, \"Take away your missionaries and your opium and you will be welcome.\"\n\nThe early growth of the Boxer movement coincided with the Hundred Days' Reform (11 June – 21 September 1898). Progressive Chinese officials, with support from Protestant missionaries, persuaded the Guangxu Emperor to institute reforms which alienated many conservative officials by their sweeping nature. Such opposition from conservative officials led Empress Dowager Cixi to intervene and reverse the reforms. The failure of the reform movement disillusioned many educated Chinese and thus further weakened the Qing government. After the reforms ended, the conservative Empress Dowager Cixi seized power and placed the reformist Guangxu Emperor under house arrest.\n\nThe national crisis was widely seen as being caused by foreign aggression. Foreign powers had defeated China in several wars, forced a right to promote Christianity and imposed unequal treaties under which foreigners and foreign companies in China were accorded special privileges, extraterritorial rights and immunities from Chinese law, causing resentment among the Chinese. France, Japan, Russia and Germany carved out spheres of influence, so that by 1900 it appeared that China would likely be dismembered, with foreign powers each ruling a part of the country. Thus, by 1900, the Qing dynasty, which had ruled China for more than two centuries, was crumbling and Chinese culture was under assault by powerful and unfamiliar religions and secular cultures.\n\nIn January 1900, with a majority of conservatives in the imperial court, Empress Dowager Cixi changed her position on the Boxers, and issued edicts in their defence, causing protests from foreign powers. In spring 1900, the Boxer movement spread rapidly north from Shandong into the countryside near Beijing. Boxers burned Christian churches, killed Chinese Christians and intimidated Chinese officials who stood in their way. American Minister Edwin H. Conger cabled Washington, \"the whole country is swarming with hungry, discontented, hopeless idlers.\" On 30 May the diplomats, led by British Minister Claude Maxwell MacDonald, requested that foreign soldiers come to Beijing to defend the legations. The Chinese government reluctantly acquiesced, and the next day a multinational force of 435 navy troops from eight countries disembarked from warships and travelled by train from Dagu (Taku) to Beijing. They set up defensive perimeters around their respective missions.\n\nOn 5 June 1900, the railway line to Tianjin was cut by Boxers in the countryside and Beijing was isolated. On 11 June, at Yongding gate, the secretary of the Japanese legation, Sugiyama Akira, was attacked and killed by the soldiers of general Dong Fuxiang, who were guarding the southern part of the Beijing walled city. Armed with Mauser rifles but wearing traditional uniforms, Dong's troops had threatened the foreign Legations in the fall of 1898 soon after arriving in Beijing, so much that troops from the United States Marine Corps had been called to Beijing to guard the legations. The German Kaiser Wilhelm II was so alarmed by the Chinese Muslim troops that he requested the Caliph Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Empire to find a way to stop the Muslim troops from fighting.\n\nThe Caliph agreed to the Kaiser's request and sent Enver Pasha (\"not\" the future Young Turk leader) to China in 1901, but the rebellion was over by that time.\n\nAlso on 11 June, the first Boxer, dressed in his finery, was seen in the Legation Quarter. The German Minister, Clemens von Ketteler, and German soldiers captured a Boxer boy and inexplicably executed him. In response, thousands of Boxers burst into the walled city of Beijing that afternoon and burned many of the Christian churches and cathedrals in the city, burning some victims alive. American and British missionaries had taken refuge in the Methodist Mission and an attack there was repulsed by American Marines. The soldiers at the British Embassy and German Legations shot and killed several Boxers, alienating the Chinese population of the city and nudging the Qing government toward support of the Boxers.\n\nThe Muslim Gansu braves and Boxers, along with other Chinese then attacked and killed Chinese Christians around the legations in revenge for foreign attacks on Chinese.\n\nAs the situation grew more violent, a second multinational force of 2,000 sailors and marines under the command of the British Vice-Admiral Edward Seymour, the largest contingent being British, was dispatched from Dagu to Beijing on 10 June 1900. The troops were transported by train from Dagu to Tianjin with the agreement of the Chinese government, but the railway between Tianjin and Beijing had been severed. Seymour resolved to move forward and repair the railway, or progress on foot if necessary, keeping in mind that the distance between Tianjin and Beijing was only 120 km. When Seymour left Tianjin and started toward Beijing, it angered the imperial court.\n\nAs a result, the pro-Boxer Manchu Prince Duan became leader of the Zongli Yamen (foreign office), replacing Prince Qing. Prince Duan was a member of the imperial Aisin Gioro clan (foreigners called him a \"Blood Royal\"), and Empress Dowager Cixi had named her son as next in line for the imperial throne. He became the effective leader of the Boxers, and was extremely anti-foreigner. He soon ordered the Qing imperial army to attack the foreign forces. Confused by conflicting orders from Beijing, General Nie Shicheng let Seymour's army pass by in their trains.\n\nAfter leaving Tianjin, the convoy quickly reached Langfang, but found the railway there to be destroyed. Seymour's engineers tried to repair the line, but the allied army found itself surrounded, as the railway both behind and in front of them had been destroyed. They were attacked from all parts by Chinese irregulars and Chinese governmental troops. Five thousand of Dong Fuxiang's \"Gansu Braves\" and an unknown number of \"Boxers\" won a costly but major victory over Seymour's troops at the Battle of Langfang on 18 June. As the allied European army retreated from Langfang, they were constantly fired upon by cavalry, and artillery bombarded their positions. It was reported that the Chinese artillery was superior to the European artillery, since the Europeans did not bother to bring along much for the campaign, thinking they could easily sweep through Chinese resistance.\n\nThe Europeans could not locate the Chinese artillery, which was raining shells upon their positions. Mining, engineering, flooding and simultaneous attacks were employed by Chinese troops. The Chinese also employed pincer movements, ambushes and sniper tactics with some success against the foreigners.\n\nNews arrived on 18 June regarding attacks on foreign legations. Seymour decided to continue advancing, this time along the Beihe river, toward Tongzhou, from Beijing. By the 19th, they had to abandon their efforts due to progressively stiffening resistance and started to retreat southward along the river with over 200 wounded. Commandeering four civilian Chinese junks along the river, they loaded all their wounded and remaining supplies onto them and pulled them along with ropes from the riverbanks. By this point they were very low on food, ammunition and medical supplies. Unexpectedly they then happened upon the Great Xigu Arsenal, a hidden Qing munitions cache of which the Allied Powers had had no knowledge until then. They immediately captured and occupied it, discovering not only Krupp field guns, but rifles with millions of rounds of ammunition, along with millions of pounds of rice and ample medical supplies.\n\nThere they dug in and awaited rescue. A Chinese servant was able to infiltrate through the Boxer and Qing lines, informing the Eight Powers of the Seymour troops' predicament. Surrounded and attacked nearly around the clock by Qing troops and Boxers, they were at the point of being overrun. On 25 June, a regiment composed of 1,800 men (900 Russian troops from Port Arthur, 500 British seamen, with an ad hoc mix of other assorted Alliance troops) finally arrived on foot from Tientsin to rescue Seymour. Spiking the mounted field guns and setting fire to any munitions that they could not take (an estimated £3 million worth), Seymour, his force, and the rescue mission marched back to Tientsin, unopposed, on 26 June. Seymour's casualties during the expedition were 62 killed and 228 wounded.\n\nMeanwhile, in Beijing, on 16 June, Empress Dowager Cixi summoned the imperial court for a mass audience and addressed the choices between using the Boxers to evict the foreigners from the city or seeking a diplomatic solution. In response to a high official who doubted the efficacy of the Boxers' magic, Cixi replied: Both sides of the debate at the imperial court realised that popular support for the Boxers in the countryside was almost universal and that suppression would be both difficult and unpopular, especially when foreign troops were on the march.\n\nTwo factions were active during this debate. On one side were anti-foreigners who viewed foreigners as invasive and imperialistic and evoked a nativist populism. They advocated taking advantage of the Boxers to achieve the expulsion of foreign troops and foreign influences. The pro-foreigners on the other hand advanced rapprochement with foreign governments, seeing the Boxers as superstitious and ignorant.\n\nThe event that tilted the Qing imperial government irrevocably toward support of the Boxers and war with the foreign powers was the attack of foreign navies on the Dagu Forts near Tianjin, on 17 June 1900.\n\nOn 15 June, Qing imperial forces deployed electric mines in the River Beihe (Peiho) to prevent the Eight-Nation Alliance from sending ships to attack.\nWith a difficult military situation in Tianjin and a total breakdown of communications between Tianjin and Beijing, the allied nations took steps to reinforce their military presence significantly. On 17 June they took the Dagu Forts commanding the approaches to Tianjin, and from there brought increasing numbers of troops on shore. When Cixi received an ultimatum demanding that China surrender total control over all its military and financial affairs to foreigners, she defiantly stated before the entire Grand Council, \"Now they [the Powers] have started the aggression, and the extinction of our nation is imminent. If we just fold our arms and yield to them, I would have no face to see our ancestors after death. If we must perish, why don't we fight to the death?\"\nIt was at this point that Cixi began to blockade the legations with the armies of the Peking Field Force, which began the siege. Cixi stated that \"I have always been of the opinion, that the allied armies had been permitted to escape too easily in 1860. Only a united effort was then necessary to have given China the victory. Today, at last, the opportunity for revenge has come\", and said that millions of Chinese would join the cause of fighting the foreigners since the Manchus had provided \"great benefits\" on China.\nOn receipt of the news of the attack on the Dagu Forts on the 19th of June, Empress Dowager Cixi immediately sent an order to the legations that the diplomats and other foreigners depart Beijing under escort of the Chinese army within 24 hours.\n\nThe next morning, diplomats from the besieged legations met to discuss the Empress's offer. The majority quickly agreed that they could not trust the Chinese army. Fearing that they would be killed, they agreed to refuse the Empress's demand. The German Imperial Envoy, Baron Klemens Freiherr von Ketteler, was infuriated with the actions of the Chinese army troops and determined to take his complaints to the royal court. Against the advice of the fellow foreigners, the baron left the legations with a single aide and a team of porters to carry his sedan chair. On his way to the palace, von Ketteler was killed on the streets of Beijing by a Manchu captain. His aide managed to escape the attack and carried word of the baron's death back to the diplomatic compound. At this news, the other diplomats feared they also would be murdered if they left the legation quarter and they chose to continue to defy the Chinese order to depart Beijing. The legations were hurriedly fortified. Most of the foreign civilians, which included a large number of missionaries and businessmen, took refuge in the British legation, the largest of the diplomatic compounds. Chinese Christians were primarily housed in the adjacent palace (Fu) of Prince Su who was forced to abandon his property by the foreign soldiers.\n\nOn the 21st of June, Empress Dowager Cixi declared war against all foreign powers. Regional governors who commanded substantial modernised armies, such as Li Hongzhang at Canton, Yuan Shikai in Shandong, Zhang Zhidong at Wuhan and Liu Kunyi at Nanjing, refused to join in the imperial court's declaration of war and withheld knowledge of it from the public in the south. Yuan Shikai used his own forces to suppress Boxers in Shandong, and Zhang entered into negotiations with the foreigners in Shanghai to keep his army out of the conflict. The neutrality of these provincial and regional governors left the majority of Chinese out of the conflict. They were called The Mutual Protection of Southeast China.\n\nThe legations of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Austria-Hungary, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, the United States, Russia and Japan were located in the Beijing Legation Quarter south of the Forbidden City. The Chinese army and Boxer irregulars besieged the Legation Quarter from 20 June to 14 August 1900. A total of 473 foreign civilians, 409 soldiers, marines and sailors from eight countries, and about 3,000 Chinese Christians took refuge there. Under the command of the British minister to China, Claude Maxwell MacDonald, the legation staff and military guards defended the compound with small arms, three machine guns, and one old muzzle-loaded cannon, which was nicknamed the \"International Gun\" because the barrel was British, the carriage Italian, the shells Russian and the crew American. Chinese Christians in the legations led the foreigners to the cannon and it proved important in the defence. Also under siege in Beijing was the Northern Cathedral (\"Beitang\") of the Catholic Church. The Beitang was defended by 43 French and Italian soldiers, 33 Catholic foreign priests and nuns, and about 3,200 Chinese Catholics. The defenders suffered heavy casualties especially from lack of food and mines which the Chinese exploded in tunnels dug beneath the compound. The number of Chinese soldiers and Boxers besieging the Legation Quarter and the Beitang is unknown.\n\nOn the 22nd and 23 June, Chinese soldiers and Boxers set fire to areas north and west of the British Legation, using it as a \"frightening tactic\" to attack the defenders. The nearby Hanlin Academy, a complex of courtyards and buildings that housed \"the quintessence of Chinese scholarship ... the oldest and richest library in the world\", caught fire. Each side blamed the other for the destruction of the invaluable books it contained.\n\nAfter the failure to burn out the foreigners, the Chinese army adopted an anaconda-like strategy. The Chinese built barricades surrounding the Legation Quarter and advanced, brick by brick, on the foreign lines, forcing the foreign legation guards to retreat a few feet at a time. This tactic was especially used in the Fu, defended by Japanese and Italian sailors and soldiers, and inhabited by most of the Chinese Christians. Fusillades of bullets, artillery and firecrackers were directed against the Legations almost every night—but did little damage. Sniper fire took its toll among the foreign defenders. Despite their numerical advantage, the Chinese did not attempt a direct assault on the Legation Quarter although in the words of one of the besieged, \"it would have been easy by a strong, swift movement on the part of the numerous Chinese troops to have annihilated the whole body of foreigners ... in an hour.\" American missionary Frank Gamewell and his crew of \"fighting parsons\" fortified the Legation Quarter, but impressed Chinese Christians to do most of the physical labour of building defences.\n\nThe Germans and the Americans occupied perhaps the most crucial of all defensive positions: the Tartar Wall. Holding the top of the tall and wide wall was vital. The German barricades faced east on top of the wall and west were the west-facing American positions. The Chinese advanced toward both positions by building barricades even closer. \"The men all feel they are in a trap\", said the American commander, Capt. John T. Myers, \"and simply await the hour of execution.\" On 30 June, the Chinese forced the Germans off the Wall, leaving the American Marines alone in its defence. At the same time, a Chinese barricade was advanced to within a few feet of the American positions and it became clear that the Americans had to abandon the wall or force the Chinese to retreat. At 2 am on 3 July, 56 British, Russian and American marines and sailors, under the command of Myers, launched an assault against the Chinese barricade on the wall. The attack caught the Chinese sleeping, killed about 20 of them, and expelled the rest of them from the barricades. The Chinese did not attempt to advance their positions on the Tartar Wall for the remainder of the siege.\n\nSir Claude MacDonald said 13 July was the \"most harassing day\" of the siege. The Japanese and Italians in the Fu were driven back to their last defence line. The Chinese detonated a mine beneath the French Legation pushing the French and Austrians out of most of the French Legation. On 16 July, the most capable British officer was killed and the journalist George Ernest Morrison was wounded. But American Minister Edwin Hurd Conger established contact with the Chinese government and on 17 July, an armistice was declared by the Chinese. More than 40% of the legation guards were dead or wounded. The motivation of the Chinese was probably the realization that an allied force of 20,000 men had landed in China and retribution for the siege was at hand.\n\nThe Manchu General Ronglu concluded that it was futile to fight all of the powers simultaneously, and declined to press home the siege. The Manchu Zaiyi (Prince Duan), an anti-foreign friend of Dong Fuxiang, wanted artillery for Dong's troops to destroy the legations. Ronglu blocked the transfer of artillery to Zaiyi and Dong, preventing them from attacking. Ronglu forced Dong Fuxiang and his troops to pull back from completing the siege and destroying the legations, thereby saving the foreigners and making diplomatic concessions. Ronglu and Prince Qing sent food to the legations, and used their Manchu Bannermen to attack the Muslim Gansu Braves (\"Kansu Braves\" in the spelling of the time) of Dong Fuxiang and the Boxers who were besieging the foreigners. They issued edicts ordering the foreigners to be protected, but the Gansu warriors ignored it, and fought against Bannermen who tried to force them away from the legations. The Boxers also took commands from Dong Fuxiang. Ronglu also deliberately hid an Imperial Decree from General Nie Shicheng. The Decree ordered him to stop fighting the Boxers because of the foreign invasion, and also because the population was suffering. Due to Ronglu's actions, General Nie continued to fight the Boxers and killed many of them even as the foreign troops were making their way into China. Ronglu also ordered Nie to protect foreigners and save the railway from the Boxers. Because parts of the Railway were saved under Ronglu's orders, the foreign invasion army was able to transport itself into China quickly. General Nie committed thousands of troops against the Boxers instead of against the foreigners. Nie was already outnumbered by the Allies by 4,000 men. General Nie was blamed for attacking the Boxers, as Ronglu let Nie take all the blame. At the Battle of Tianjin (Tientsin), General Nie decided to sacrifice his life by walking into the range of Allied guns.\n\nXu Jingcheng, who had served as the Qing Envoy to many of the same states under siege in the Legation Quarter, argued that \"the evasion of extraterritorial rights and the killing of foreign diplomats are unprecedented in China and abroad.\" Xu and five other officials urged Empress Dowager Cixi to order the repression of Boxers, the execution of their leaders, and a diplomatic settlement with foreign armies. The Empress Dowager, outraged, sentenced Xu and the five others to death for \"willfully and absurdly petitioning the Imperial Court\" and \"building subversive thought.\" They were executed on July 28, 1900 and their severed heads placed on display at Caishikou Execution Grounds in Beijing.\n\nReflecting this vacillation, some Chinese soldiers were quite liberally firing at foreigners under siege from its very onset. Cixi did not personally order imperial troops to conduct a siege, and on the contrary had ordered them to protect the foreigners in the legations. Prince Duan led the Boxers to loot his enemies within the imperial court and the foreigners, although imperial authorities expelled Boxers after they were let into the city and went on a looting rampage against both the foreign and the Qing imperial forces. Older Boxers were sent outside Beijing to halt the approaching foreign armies, while younger men were absorbed into the Muslim Gansu army.\n\nWith conflicting allegiances and priorities motivating the various forces inside Beijing, the situation in the city became increasingly confused. The foreign legations continued to be surrounded by both Qing imperial and Gansu forces. While Dong Fuxiang's Gansu army, now swollen by the addition of the Boxers, wished to press the siege, Ronglu's imperial forces seem to have largely attempted to follow Empress Dowager Cixi's decree and protect the legations. However, to satisfy the conservatives in the imperial court, Ronglu's men also fired on the legations and let off firecrackers to give the impression that they, too, were attacking the foreigners. Inside the legations and out of communication with the outside world, the foreigners simply fired on any targets that presented themselves, including messengers from the imperial court, civilians and besiegers of all persuasions. Dong Fuxiang was denied artillery held by Ronglu which stopped him from leveling the legations, and when he complained to Empress Dowager Cixi on June 23, she dismissively said that \"Your tail, is becoming too heavy to wag.\" The Alliance discovered large amounts of unused Chinese Krupp artillery and shells after the siege was lifted.\n\nThe armistice, although occasionally broken, endured until 13 August when, with an allied army led by the British Alfred Gaselee approaching Beijing to relieve the siege, the Chinese launched their heaviest fusillade on the Legation Quarter. As the foreign army approached, Chinese forces melted away.\n\nForeign navies started building up their presence along the northern China coast from the end of April 1900. Several international forces were sent to the capital, with varying success, and the Chinese forces were ultimately defeated by the Eight-Nation Alliance of Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Independent of the alliance, the Netherlands dispatched three cruisers in July to protect its citizens in Shanghai.\n\nBritish Lieutenant-General Alfred Gaselee acted as the commanding officer of the Eight-Nation Alliance, which eventually numbered 55,000. The main contingent was composed of Japanese (20,840), Russian (13,150), British (12,020), French (3,520), U.S. (3,420), German (900), Italian (80), Austro-Hungarian (75) and anti-Boxer Chinese troops. The \"First Chinese Regiment\" (Weihaiwei Regiment) which was praised for its performance, consisted of Chinese collaborators serving in the British military. The international force finally captured Tianjin on 14 July under the command of the Japanese Colonel Kuriya, after a day of fighting.\n\nNotable events included the seizure of the Dagu Forts commanding the approaches to Tianjin and the boarding and capture of four Chinese destroyers by British Commander Roger Keyes. Among the foreigners besieged in Tianjin was a young American mining engineer named Herbert Hoover, who would go on to become the 31st President of the United States.\n\nThe march from Tianjin to Beijing of about 120 km included about 20,000 allied troops. On 4 August, there were approximately 70,000 Qing imperial troops and anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 Boxers along the way. The allies only encountered minor resistance, fighting battles at Beicang and Yangcun. At Yangcun, the 14th Infantry Regiment of the U.S. and British troops led the assault. The weather was a major obstacle. Conditions were extremely humid with temperatures sometimes reaching . These high temperatures and insects plagued the Allies. Soldiers dehydrated and horses died. Chinese villagers killed Allied troops who searched for wells.\n\nThe heat killed Allied soldiers, who foamed at the mouth. The tactics along the way were gruesome on either side. Allied soldiers beheaded already dead Chinese corpses, bayoneted or beheaded live Chinese civilians, and raped Chinese girls and women. Cossacks were reported to have killed Chinese civilians almost automatically and Japanese kicked a Chinese soldier to death. The Chinese responded to the Alliance's atrocities with similar acts of violence and cruelty, especially towards captured Russians. Lieutenant Smedley Butler saw the remains of two Japanese soldiers nailed to a wall, who had their tongues cut off and their eyes gouged. Lieutenant Butler was wounded during the expedition in the leg and chest, later receiving the Brevet Medal in recognition for his actions.\n\nThe international force reached Beijing on 14 August. Following the defeat of Beiyang army in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Chinese government had invested heavily in modernizing the imperial army, which was equipped with modern Mauser repeater rifles and Krupp artillery. Three modernized divisions consisting of Manchu Bannermen protected the Beijing Metropolitan region. Two of them were under the command of the anti-Boxer Prince Qing and Ronglu, while the anti-foreign Prince Duan commanded the ten-thousand-strong Hushenying, or \"Tiger Spirit Division\", which had joined the Gansu Braves and Boxers in attacking the foreigners. It was a Hushenying captain who had assassinated the German diplomat Ketteler. The Tenacious Army under Nie Shicheng received western style training under German and Russian officers in addition to their modernised weapons and uniforms. They effectively resisted the Alliance at the Battle of Tientsin before retreating and astounded the Alliance forces with the accuracy of their artillery during the siege of the Tianjin concessions (the artillery shells failed to explode upon impact due to corrupt manufacturing). The Gansu Braves under Dong Fuxiang, which some sources described as \"ill disciplined\", were armed with modern weapons but were not trained according to western drill and wore traditional Chinese uniforms. They led the defeat of the Alliance at Langfang in the Seymour Expedition and were the most ferocious in besieging the Legations in Beijing. Some Banner forces were given modernised weapons and western training, becoming the Metropolitan Banner forces, which were decimated in the fighting. Among the Manchu dead was the father of the writer Lao She.\n\nThe British won the race among the international forces to be the first to reach the besieged Legation Quarter. The U.S. was able to play a role due to the presence of U.S. ships and troops stationed in Manila since the U.S. conquest of the Philippines during the Spanish–American War and the subsequent Philippine–American War. In the U.S. military, the action in the Boxer Rebellion was known as the China Relief Expedition. United States Marines scaling the walls of Beijing is an iconic image of the Boxer Rebellion.\n\nThe British Army reached the legation quarter on the afternoon of 14 August and relieved the Legation Quarter. The Beitang was relieved on 16 August, first by Japanese soldiers and then, officially, by the French.\n\nIn the early hours of 15 August, just as the Foreign Legations were being relieved, Empress Dowager Cixi, dressed in the padded blue cotton of a farm woman, the Guangxu Emperor, and a small retinue climbed into three wooden ox carts and escaped from the city covered with rough blankets. Legend has it that the Empress Dowager then either ordered that the Guangxu Emperor's favourite concubine, Consort Zhen, be thrown down a well in the Forbidden City or tricked her into drowning herself. The journey was made all the more arduous by the lack of preparation, but the Empress Dowager insisted this was not a retreat, rather a \"tour of inspection.\" After weeks of travel, the party arrived in Xi'an in Shaanxi province, beyond protective mountain passes where the foreigners could not reach, deep in Chinese Muslim territory and protected by the Gansu Braves. The foreigners had no orders to pursue the Empress Dowager, so they decided to stay put.\n\nThe Russian Empire and the Qing Empire had maintained a long peace, starting with the Treaty of Nerchinsk in 1689, but Tsarist forces took advantage of Chinese defeats to impose the Aigun Treaty of 1858 and the Treaty of Peking of 1860 which ceded formerly Chinese territory in Manchuria to Russia, much of which is held by Russia to the present day (Primorye). The Russians aimed for control over the Amur River for navigation, and the all-weather ports of Dairen and Port Arthur in the Liaodong peninsula. The rise of Japan as an Asian power provoked Russia's anxiety, especially in light of expanding Japanese influence in Korea. Following Japan's victory in the First Sino-Japanese War of 1895, the Triple Intervention of Russia, Germany and France forced Japan to return the territory won in Liaodong, leading to a de facto Sino-Russian alliance.\n\nLocal Chinese in Manchuria were incensed at these Russian advances and began to harass Russians and Russian institutions, such as the Chinese Eastern Railway. In June 1900, the Chinese bombarded the town of Blagoveshchensk on the Russian side of the Amur. The Czar's government used the pretext of Boxer activity to move some 200,000 troops into the area to crush the Boxers. The Chinese used arson to destroy a bridge carrying a railway and a barracks on 27 July. The Boxers destroyed railways and cut lines for telegraphs and burned the Yantai mines.\n\nBy 21 September, Russian troops took Jilin and Liaodong, and by the end of the month completely occupied Manchuria, where their presence was a major factor leading to the Russo-Japanese War.\n\nThe Chinese Honghuzi bandits of Manchuria, who had fought alongside the Boxers in the war, did not stop when the Boxer rebellion was over, and continued guerilla warfare against the Russian occupation up to the Russo-Japanese war when the Russians were defeated by Japan.\n\nOrthodox, Protestant, and Catholic missionaries and their Chinese parishioners were massacred throughout northern China, some by Boxers and others by government troops and authorities. After the declaration of war on Western powers in June 1900, Yuxian, who had been named governor of Shanxi in March of that year, implemented a brutal anti-foreign and anti-Christian policy. On 9 July, reports circulated that he had executed forty-four foreigners (including women and children) from missionary families whom he had invited to the provincial capital Taiyuan under the promise to protect them. Although the purported eye witness accounts have recently been questioned as improbable, this event became a notorious symbol of Chinese anger, known as the Taiyuan Massacre. By the summer's end, more foreigners and as many as 2,000 Chinese Christians had been put to death in the province. Journalist and historical writer Nat Brandt has called the massacre of Christians in Shanxi \"the greatest single tragedy in the history of Christian evangelicalism.\"\n\nDuring the Boxer Rebellion as a whole, a total of 136 Protestant missionaries and 53 children were killed, and 47 Catholic priests and nuns. 30,000 Chinese Catholics, 2,000 Chinese Protestants, and 200 to 400 of the 700 Russian Orthodox Christians in Beijing were estimated to have been killed. Collectively, the Protestant dead were called the China Martyrs of 1900. 222 of Russian Christian Chinese Martyrs including St. Metrophanes were locally canonised as New Martyrs on 22 April 1902, after archimandrite Innocent (Fugurovsky), head of the Russian Orthodox Mission in China, solicited the Most Holy Synod to perpetuate their memory. This was the first local canonisation for more than two centuries. The Boxers went on to murder Christians across 26 prefectures.\n\nBeijing, Tianjin, and other cities in northern China were occupied for more than one year by the international expeditionary force under the command of German General Alfred Graf von Waldersee. Atrocities by foreign troops were common. French troops ravaged the countryside around Beijing on behalf of Chinese Catholics. The Americans and British paid General Yuan Shikai and his army (the Right Division) to help the Eight Nation Alliance suppress the Boxers. Yuan Shikai's forces killed tens of thousands of people in their anti Boxer campaign in Zhili Province and Shandong after the Alliance captured Beijing. Yuan operated out of Baoding during the campaign, which ended in 1902. Li Hongzhang commanded Chinese soldiers to kill \"Boxers\" to assist the foreign invaders.\n\nFrom the Chinese point of view, as well as reports from contemporary Western observers, German, Russian, and Japanese troops received the greatest criticism for their ruthlessness and willingness to wantonly execute Chinese of all ages and backgrounds, sometimes burning and killing entire village populations. The German force arrived too late to take part in the fighting, but undertook punitive expeditions to the countryside. Kaiser Wilhelm II on July 27 during departure ceremonies for the German relief force included an impromptu, but intemperate reference to the Hun invaders of continental Europe which would later be resurrected by British propaganda to mock Germany during the First World War and Second World War:\n\nOne newspaper called the aftermath of the siege a \"carnival of loot\", and others called it \"an orgy of looting\" by soldiers, civilians and missionaries. These characterisations called to mind the sacking of the Summer Palace in 1860. Each nationality accused the others of being the worst looters. An American diplomat, Herbert G. Squiers, filled several railroad cars with loot. The British Legation held loot auctions every afternoon and proclaimed, \"looting on the part of British troops was carried out in the most orderly manner.\" However, one British officer noted, \"it is one of the unwritten laws of war that a city which does not surrender at the last and is taken by storm is looted.\" For the rest of 1900–1901, the British held loot auctions everyday except Sunday in front of the main-gate to the British Legation. Many foreigners, including Sir Claude Maxwell MacDonald and Lady Ethel MacDonald and George Ernest Morrison of \"The Times\", were active bidders among the crowd. Many of these looted items ended up in Europe. The Catholic Beitang or North Cathedral was a \"salesroom for stolen property.\"\nThe American commander General Adna Chaffee banned looting by American soldiers, but the ban was ineffectual.\n\nSome, but by no means all Western missionaries took an active part in calling for retribution. To provide restitution to missionaries and Chinese Christian families whose property had been destroyed, William Ament, a missionary of American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, guided American troops through villages to punish those he suspected of being Boxers and confiscate their property. When Mark Twain read of this expedition, he wrote a scathing essay, that attacked the \"Reverend bandits of the American Board,\" especially targeting Ament, one of the most respected missionaries in China. The controversy was front-page news during much of 1901. Ament's counterpart on the distaff side was doughty British missionary Georgina Smith who presided over a neighborhood in Beijing as judge and jury.\n\nWhile one historical account reported that Japanese troops were astonished by other Alliance troops raping civilians, others noted that Japanese troops were 'looting and burning without mercy', and that Chinese 'women and girls by hundreds have committed suicide to escape a worse fate at the hands of Russian and Japanese brutes.' Roger Keyes, who commanded the British destroyer \"Fame\" and accompanied the Gaselee Expedition, noted that the Japanese had brought their own \"regimental wives\" (prostitutes) to the front to keep their soldiers from raping Chinese civilians. Thousands of Chinese women committed suicide; \"The Daily Telegraph\" journalist E. J. Dillon stated it was to avoid rape by Alliance forces, and he witnessed the mutilated corpses of Chinese women who were raped and killed by the Alliance troops. The French commander dismissed the rapes, attributing them to \"gallantry of the French soldier.\" A foreign journalist, George Lynch, said \"there are things that I must not write, and that may not be printed in England, which would seem to show that this Western civilization of ours is merely a veneer over savagery.\"\n\nMany Bannermen supported the Boxers and shared their anti-foreign sentiment. The German Minister Clemens von Ketteler was assassinated by a Manchu. Bannermen had been devastated in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895 and Banner armies were destroyed while resisting the invasion. In the words of historian Pamela Crossley, their living conditions went \"from desperate poverty to true misery.\" When thousands of Manchus fled south from Aigun during the fighting in 1900, their cattle and horses were stolen by Russian Cossacks who then burned their villages and homes to ashes. The clan system of the Manchus in Aigun was obliterated by the despoliation of the area at the hands of the Russian invaders.\n\nUnder the lead of some highly ranked officials including Li Hongzhang, Yuan Shikai and Zhang Zhidong, several provinces in the southeast formed the Southeastern Mutual Protection during this period to avoid the further expansion of the chaos or the worsening of the situation between China and western powers. These provinces claimed to be neutral and refused to fight either the Boxers or the Eight Nation Alliance.\n\nAfter the capture of Peking by the foreign armies, some of Empress Dowager Cixi's advisers advocated that the war be carried on, arguing that China could have defeated the foreigners as it was disloyal and traitorous people within China who allowed Beijing and Tianjin to be captured by the Allies, and that the interior of China was impenetrable. They also recommended that Dong Fuxiang continue fighting. The Empress Dowager Cixi was practical, however, and decided that the terms were generous enough for her to acquiesce when she was assured of her continued reign after the war and that China would not be forced to cede any territory.\n\nOn 7 September 1901, the Qing imperial court agreed to sign the \"Boxer Protocol\" also known as Peace Agreement between the Eight-Nation Alliance and China. The protocol ordered the execution of 10 high-ranking officials linked to the outbreak and other officials who were found guilty for the slaughter of foreigners in China. Alfons Mumm (Freiherr von Schwarzenstein), Ernest Satow and Komura Jutaro signed on behalf of Germany, Britain and Japan, respectively.\n\nChina was fined war reparations of 450,000,000 taels of fine silver (≈ @ 1.2 ozt/tael) for the loss that it caused. The reparation was to be paid within 39 years, and would be 982,238,150 taels with interest (4 percent per year) included. To help meet the payment it was agreed to increase the existing tariff from an actual 3.18 percent to 5 percent, and to tax hitherto duty-free merchandise. The sum of reparation was estimated by the Chinese population (roughly 450 million in 1900), to let each Chinese pay one tael. Chinese custom income and salt tax were enlisted as guarantee of the reparation. China paid 668,661,220 taels of silver from 1901 to 1939, equivalent in 2010 to ≈US$61 billion on a purchasing power parity basis.\n\nA large portion of the reparations paid to the United States was diverted to pay for the education of Chinese students in U.S. universities under the Boxer Indemnity Scholarship Program. To prepare the students chosen for this program an institute was established to teach the English language and to serve as a preparatory school. When the first of these students returned to China they undertook the teaching of subsequent students; from this institute was born Tsinghua University. Some of the reparation due to Britain was later earmarked for a similar program.\n\nThe China Inland Mission lost more members than any other missionary agency:\n58 adults and 21 children were killed. However, in 1901, when the allied nations were demanding compensation from the Chinese government, Hudson Taylor refused to accept payment for loss of property or life in order to demonstrate the meekness and gentleness of Christ to the Chinese.\n\nThe Belgian Catholic vicar apostolic of Ordos, Msgr. Alfons Bermyn wanted foreign troops garrisoned in Inner Mongolia, but the Governor refused. Bermyn petitioned the Manchu Enming to send troops to Hetao where Prince Duan's Mongol troops and General Dong Fuxiang's Muslim troops allegedly threatened Catholics. It turned out that Bermyn had created the incident as a hoax.\n\nThe Qing government did not capitulate to all the foreign demands. The Manchu governor Yuxian, was executed, but the imperial court refused to execute the Han Chinese General Dong Fuxiang, although he had also encouraged the killing of foreigners during the rebellion. Empress Dowager Cixi intervened when the Alliance demanded him executed and Dong was only cashiered and sent back home. Instead, Dong lived a life of luxury and power in \"exile\" in his home province of Gansu. Upon Dong's death in 1908, all honors which had been stripped from him were restored and he was given a full military burial.\n\nThe European great powers finally ceased their ambitions of colonizing China having learned from the Boxer rebellions that the best way to deal with China was through the ruling dynasty, rather than directly with the Chinese people (a sentiment embodied in the adage: \"The people are afraid of officials, the officials are afraid of foreigners, and the foreigners are afraid of the people\" (), and even briefly assisted the Qing in their war against the Japanese to prevent a Japanese domination in the region.\n\nConcurrently, this period marks the ceding of European great power interference in Chinese affairs, with the Japanese replacing the Europeans as the dominant power for their lopsided involvement in the war against the Boxers as well as their victory in the First Sino-Japanese War. With the toppling of the Qing that followed and the rise of the Nationalist Kuomintang, European sway within China was reduced to symbolic status. After taking Manchuria in 1905, Japan came to dominate Asian affairs both militarily and culturally with many of the Chinese scholars also educated in Japan with the most prominent example being Sun Yat-Sen who would later found the Nationalist movement of the Kuomintang in China.\n\nIn October 1900, Russia occupied the provinces of Manchuria, a move which threatened Anglo-American hopes of maintaining what remained of China's territorial integrity and the country's openness to commerce under the Open Door Policy.\n\nJapan's clash with Russia over Liaodong and other provinces in eastern Manchuria, due to the Russian refusal to honour the terms of the Boxer protocol which called for their withdrawal, led to the Russo-Japanese War when two years of negotiations broke down in February 1904. The Russian Lease of the Liaodong (1898) was confirmed. Russia was ultimately defeated by an increasingly confident Japan.\n\nBesides the compensation, Empress Dowager Cixi reluctantly started some reforms despite her previous views. Under her reforms known as the New Policies started in 1901, the imperial examination system for government service was eliminated and as a result the system of education through Chinese classics was replaced with a European liberal system that led to a university degree. Along with the formation of new military and police organisations, the reforms also simplified central bureaucracy and made a start on revamping taxation policies. After the deaths of Cixi and the Guangxu Emperor in 1908, the prince regent Zaifeng (Prince Chun), the Guangxu Emperor's brother, launched further reforms.\n\nThe effect on China was a weakening of the dynasty and its national defense capabilities. The government structure was temporarily sustained by the Europeans. Behind the international conflict, it further deepened internal ideological differences between northern-Chinese anti-foreign royalists and southern-Chinese anti-Qing revolutionists. This scenario in the last years of the Qing dynasty gradually escalated into a chaotic warlord era in which the most powerful northern warlords were hostile towards the revolutionaries in the south who overthrew the Qing monarchy in 1911. The rivalry was not fully resolved until the northern warlords were defeated by the Kuomintang's 1926–28 Northern Expedition. Prior to the final defeat of the Boxer Rebellion, all anti-Qing movements in the previous century, such as the Taiping Rebellion, had been successfully suppressed by the Qing.\n\nHistorian Walter LaFeber has argued that President William McKinley's decision to send 5,000 American troops to quell the rebellion marks \"the origins of modern presidential war powers\":\n\nArthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. concurred, writing that:\n\nIn the Second Sino-Japanese War, when the Japanese asked the Muslim general Ma Hongkui to defect and become head of a Muslim puppet state, he responded that his relatives had been killed during the Battle of Peking, including his uncle Ma Fulu. Since Japanese troops made up the majority of the Alliance forces there would be no cooperation with the Japanese.\n\nFrom the beginning, views differed as to whether the Boxers were better seen as anti-imperialist, patriotic, and proto-nationalist or as \"uncivilized\", irrational, and futile opponents of inevitable change. The historian Joseph Esherick comments that \"confusion about the Boxer Uprising is not simply a matter of popular misconceptions\", for \"there is no major incident in China's modern history on which the range of professional interpretation is as great\".\n\nChinese liberals such as Hu Shi often condemned the Boxers for their irrationality and barbarity. Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the founding father of the Republic of China and of the Nationalist Party at first believed that the Boxer Movement was stirred up by the Qing government's rumors, which \"caused confusion among the populace\", and delivered \"scathing criticism\" of the Boxers' \"anti-foreignism and obscurantism\". Sun praised the Boxers for their \"spirit of resistance\" but called them \"bandits\". Students shared an ambivalent attitude to the Boxers, stating that while the uprising originated from the \"ignorant and stubborn people of the interior areas\", their beliefs were \"brave and righteous\", and could \"be transformed into a moving force for independence\". After the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1911, nationalist Chinese became more sympathetic to the Boxers. In 1918 Sun praised their fighting spirit and said the Boxers were courageous and fearless, fighting to the death against the Alliance armies, specifically the Battle of Yangcun. The leader of the New Culture Movement, Chen Duxiu, forgave the \"barbarism of the Boxer... given the crime foreigners committed in China\", and contended that it was those \"subservient to the foreigners\" that truly \"deserved our resentment\".\n\nIn other countries, views of the Boxers were complex and contentious. Mark Twain said that \"the Boxer is a patriot. He loves his country better than he does the countries of other people. I wish him success\". The Russian writer Leo Tolstoy also praised the Boxers. He accused Nicholas II of Russia and Wilhelm II of Germany of being chiefly responsible for the lootings, rapes, murders and the \"Christian brutality\" of the Russians and other western troops. The Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin mocked the Russian government's claim that it was protecting Christian civilization: \"Poor Imperial Government! So Christianly unselfish, and yet so unjustly maligned! Several years ago it unselfishly seized Port Arthur, and now it is unselfishly seizing Manchuria; it has unselfishly flooded the frontier provinces of China with hordes of contractors, engineers, and officers, who, by their conduct, have roused to indignation even the Chinese, known for their docility.\" The Indian Bengali Hindu Rabindranath Tagore attacked the European colonialists. A number of Indian soldiers in the British Indian Army agreed that the Boxers were right and the British stole from the Temple of Heaven a bell, which was given back to China by the Indian military in 1994.\n\nEven some American churchmen spoke out in support of the Boxers. The evangelist Rev. Dr. George F. Pentecost said that the Boxer uprising was a \"patriotic movement to expel the 'foreign devils' — just that — the foreign devils\". Suppose, he said, the great nations of Europe were to “put their fleets together, came over here, seize Portland, move on down to Boston, then New York, then Philadelphia, and so on down the Atlantic Coast and around the Gulf of Galveston? Suppose they took possession of these port cities, drove our people into the hinterland, built great warehouses and factories, brought in a body of dissolute agents, and calmly notified our people that henceforward they would manage the commerce of the country? Would we not have a Boxer movement to drive those foreign European Christian devils out of our country?\"\n\nThe Russian newspaper \"Amurskii Krai\" criticized the killing of innocent civilians, charging that \"restraint\" \"civilization\" and \"culture\" instead of \"racial hatred\" and \"destruction\" would have been more becoming of a \"civilized Christian nation\". The paper asked \"What shall we tell civilized people? We shall have to say to them: 'Do not consider us as brothers anymore. We are mean and terrible people; we have killed those who hid at our place, who sought our protection'\".\n\nThe events also left a longer impact. The historian Robert Bickers found that for the British in China the Boxer rising served as the \"equivalent of the Indian 'mutiny'\" and came to represent the Yellow Peril. Later events, he adds, such as the Chinese Nationalist Revolution of the 1920s and even the activities of the Red Guards of the 1960s, were perceived as being in the shadow of the Boxers.\n\nIn Taiwan and Hong Kong, history textbooks often present the Boxer as irrational. But in the People's Republic of China, government textbooks described the Boxer movement as an anti-imperialist, patriotic peasant movement whose failure was due to the lack of leadership from the modern working class, and described the international army as an invading force. In recent decades, however, large-scale projects of village interviews and explorations of archival sources have led historians in China to take a more nuanced view. Some non-Chinese scholars, such as Joseph Esherick, have seen the movement as anti-imperialist; while others hold that the concept \"nationalistic\" is anachronistic because the Chinese nation had not been formed and the Boxers were more concerned with regional issues. Paul Cohen's recent study includes a survey of \"the Boxers as myth\", showing how their memory was used in changing ways in 20th-century China from the New Culture Movement to the Cultural Revolution.\n\nIn recent years the Boxer question has been debated in the People's Republic of China. In 1998, the critical scholar Wang Yi argued that the Boxers had features in common with the extremism of the Cultural Revolution. Both events had the external goal of \"liquidating all harmful pests\" and the domestic goal of \"eliminating bad elements of all descriptions\" and this relation was rooted in \"cultural obscurantism\". Wang explained to his readers the changes in attitudes towards the Boxers from the condemnation of the May Fourth Movement to the approval expressed by Mao Zedong during the Cultural Revolution. In 2006 Yuan Weishi, a professor of philosophy at Zhongshan University in Guangzhou, wrote that the Boxers by their \"criminal actions brought unspeakable suffering to the nation and its people! These are all facts that everybody knows, and it is a national shame that the Chinese people cannot forget\". Yuan charged that history text books had been lacking in neutrality in presenting the Boxer Uprising as a \"magnificent feat of patriotism\", and not presenting the view that the majority of the Boxer rebels were violent. In response, some labeled Yuan Weishi a \"traitor\" (Hanjian).\n\nThe first reports coming from China in 1898 referred to the village activists as \"Yihequan\", (Wade–Giles: I Ho Ch'uan). The first known use of the term \"Boxer\" was September 1899 in a letter from missionary Grace Newton in Shandong. It appears from context that \"Boxer\" was a known term by that time, possibly coined by the Shandong missionaries Arthur H. Smith and Henry Porter. Smith says in his book of 1902 that the name\nI Ho Ch'uan... literally denotes the 'Fists' (Ch'uan) of Righteousness (or Public) (I) Harmony (Ho), in apparent allusion to the strength of united force which was to be put forth. As the Chinese phrase 'fists and feet' signifies boxing and wrestling, there appeared to be no more suitable term for the adherents of the sect than 'Boxers,' a designation first used by one or two missionary correspondents of foreign journals in China, and later universally accepted on account of the difficulty of coining a better one.\nOn 6 June 1900 the \"Times\" of London used the term \"rebellion\" in quotation marks, presumably to indicate their view that the rising was in fact instigated by Empress Dowager Cixi. The historian Lanxin Xiang refers to the \"so called 'Boxer Rebellion,'\" and explains that \"while peasant rebellion was nothing new in Chinese history, a war against the world's most powerful states was.\" The name \"Boxer Rebellion\", concludes Joseph Esherick, another recent historian, is truly a \"misnomer\", for the Boxers \"never rebelled against the Manchu rulers of China and their Qing dynasty\" and the \"most common Boxer slogan, throughout the history of the movement, was \"support the Qing, destroy the Foreign.\" He adds that only after the movement was suppressed by the Allied Intervention did both the foreign powers and influential Chinese officials realize that the Qing would have to remain as government of China in order to maintain order and collect taxes to pay the indemnity. Therefore, in order to save face for the Empress Dowager and the imperial court, the argument was made that the Boxers were rebels and that support from the imperial court came only from a few Manchu princes. Esherick concludes that the origin of the term \"rebellion\" was \"purely political and opportunistic\", but it has shown a remarkable staying power, particularly in popular accounts.\n\nOther recent Western works refer to the \"Boxer Movement\", \"Boxer War\" or Yihetuan Movement, while Chinese studies use 义和团运动 (Yihetuan yundong), that is, \"Yihetuan Movement.\" In his discussion of the general and legal implications of the terminology involved, the German scholar Thoralf Klein notes that all of the terms, including the Chinese ones, are \"posthumous interpretations of the conflict.\" He argues that each term, whether it be \"uprising\", \"rebellion\" or \"movement\" implies a different definition of the conflict. Even the term \"Boxer War\", which has become widely used by recent scholars in the West, raises questions, as war was never declared, and Allied troops behaved as a punitive expedition in colonial style, not in a declared war with legal constraints. The Allies took advantage of the fact that China had not signed \"The Laws and Customs of War on Land\", a key document at the 1899 Hague Peace Conference. They argued that China had violated its provisions but themselves ignored them. \n\nBy 1900, many new forms of media had matured, including illustrated newspapers and magazines, postcards, broadsides and advertisements, all of which presented images of the Boxers and of the invading armies. The rebellion was covered in the foreign illustrated press by artists and photographers. Paintings and prints were also published including Japanese wood-blocks. In the following decades, the Boxers were a constant subject for comment. A sampling includes:\n\n\nIn addition to the books listed under References, general accounts can be found in such textbooks as Jonathan Spence, \"In Search of Modern China\", pp. 230–235; Keith Schoppa, \"Revolution and Its Past\", pp. 118–123; and Immanuel Hsu, Ch 16, \"The Boxer Uprising\", in \"The Rise of Modern China\" (1990).\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1086559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1086559", "title": "Code reuse", "text": "Code reuse\n\nCode reuse, also called software reuse, is the use of existing software, or software knowledge, to build new software, following the reusability principles.\n\nAd hoc code reuse has been practiced from the earliest days of programming. Programmers have always reused sections of code, templates, functions, and procedures. Software reuse as a recognized area of study in software engineering, however, dates only from 1968 when Douglas McIlroy of Bell Laboratories proposed basing the software industry on reusable components.\n\nCode reuse aims to save time and resources and reduce redundancy by taking advantage of assets that have already been created in some form within the software product development process. The key idea in reuse is that parts of a computer program written at one time can be or should be used in the construction of other programs written at a later time.\n\nCode reuse may imply the creation of a separately maintained version of the reusable assets. While code is the most common resource selected for reuse, other assets generated during the development cycle may offer opportunities for reuse: software components, test suites, designs, documentation, and so on.\n\nThe software library is a good example of code reuse. Programmers may decide to create internal abstractions so that certain parts of their program can be reused, or may create custom libraries for their own use. Some characteristics that make software more easily reusable are modularity, loose coupling, high cohesion, information hiding and separation of concerns.\n\nFor newly written code to use a piece of existing code, some kind of interface, or means of communication, must be defined. These commonly include a \"call\" or use of a subroutine, object, class, or prototype. In organizations, such practices are formalized and standardized by domain engineering, also known as software product line engineering.\n\nThe general practice of using a prior version of an extant program as a starting point for the next version, is also a form of code reuse.\n\nSome so-called code \"reuse\" involves simply copying some or all of the code from an existing program into a new one. While organizations can realize time to market benefits for a new product with this approach, they can subsequently be saddled with many of the same code duplication problems caused by cut and paste programming.\n\nMany researchers have worked to make reuse faster, easier, more systematic, and an integral part of the normal process of programming. These are some of the main goals behind the invention of object-oriented programming, which became one of the most common forms of formalized reuse. A somewhat later invention is generic programming.\n\nAnother, newer means is to use software \"generators\", programs which can create new programs of a certain type, based on a set of parameters that users choose. Fields of study about such systems are generative programming and metaprogramming.\n\nConcerning motivation and driving factors, reuse can be:\n\nReuse can be categorized further:\n\n\nConcerning form or structure of reuse, code can be:\n\nFork-reuse is often discouraged because it's a form of code duplication, which requires that every bug is corrected in each copy, and enhancements made to reused code need to be manually merged in every copy or they become out-of-date. However, fork-reuse can have benefits such as isolation, flexibility to change the reused code, easier packaging, deployment and version management.\n\nSystematic software reuse is a strategy for increasing productivity and improving quality of the software industry. Although it is simple in concept, successful software reuse implementation is difficult in practice. A reason put forward for this is the dependence of software reuse on the context in which it is implemented. Some problematic issues that needs to be addressed related to systematic software reuse are: \n\nA very common example of code reuse is the technique of using a software library. Many common operations, such as converting information among different well-known formats, accessing external storage, interfacing with external programs, or manipulating information (numbers, words, names, locations, dates, etc.) in common ways, are needed by many different programs. Authors of new programs can use the code in a software library to perform these tasks, instead of \"re-inventing the wheel\", by writing fully new code directly in a program to perform an operation. Library implementations often have the benefit of being well-tested, and covering unusual or arcane cases. Disadvantages include the inability to tweak details which may affect performance or the desired output, and the time and cost of acquiring, learning, and configuring the library.\n\nA design pattern is a general solution to a recurring problem. Design patterns are more conceptual than tangible and can be modified to fit the exact need. However, abstract classes and interfaces can be reused to implement certain patterns.\n\nDevelopers generally reuse large pieces of software via third-party applications and frameworks. Though frameworks are usually domain-specific and applicable only to families of applications.\n\nIn functional programming higher-order functions can be used in many cases where design patterns or frameworks were formerly used.\n\nRetrocomputing encompasses reuse of code, simply because retro programs are being run on older computers, or emulators for them.\n\nIn computer security code-reuse is employed as a software exploit method.\nWhen an attacker is not able to directly input code to modify the control flow of a program, for example in presence of code injection defenses such as W⊕X, he or she can redirect the control flow to code sequences existing in memory.\n\nExamples of code-reuse attacks are return-to-libc attack, return-oriented programming, and jump-oriented programming.\n\nA component, in an object-oriented extent, represents a set of collaborative classes (or only one class) and its interfaces. The interfaces are responsible for enabling the replacement of components. Reusable components can also be isolated and synchronized between SCM repositories using component source code management technologies (CSCM). \n\nThe whole concept of \"code reuse\" can also encompass engineering applications outside software. For instance, parametric modeling in computer-aided design allows for creating reusable designs. Standardization results in creation of interoperable parts that can be then reused in many contexts.\n\nCode reuse results in dependency on the component being reused. Rob Pike opined that \"A little copying is better than a little dependency\". When he joined Google, the company was putting heavy emphasis on code reuse. He believes that Google's codebase still suffers from results of that former policy in terms of compilation speed and maintainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17077434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077434", "title": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database", "text": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool launched in November 2004 that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals/drugs, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules.\nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules, launched on November 12, 2004. \nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nOne of the primary goals of CTD is to advance the understanding of the effects of environmental chemicals on human health on the genetic level, a field called toxicogenomics.\n\nThe etiology of many chronic diseases involves interactions between environmental factors and genes that modulate important physiological processes. Chemicals are an important component of the environment. Conditions such as asthma, cancer, diabetes, hypertension, immunodeficiency, and Parkinson's disease are known to be influenced by the environment; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying these correlations are not well understood. CTD may help resolve these mechanisms. The most up-to-date extensive list of peer-reviewed scientific articles about CTD is available at their publications page\n\nCTD is a unique resource where biocurators read the scientific literature and manually curate four types of core data:\n\n\nBy integrating the above four data sets, CTD automatically constructs putative chemical-gene-phenotype-disease networks to illuminate molecular mechanisms underlying environmentally-influenced diseases.\n\nThese inferred relationships are statistically scored and ranked and can be used by scientists and computational biologists to generate and verify testable hypotheses about toxicogenomic mechanisms and how they relate to human health.\n\nUsers can search CTD to explore scientific data for chemicals, genes, diseases, or interactions between any of these three concepts. Currently, CTD integrates toxicogenomic data for vertebrates and invertebrates.\n\nCTD integrates data from or hyperlinks to these databases:\n\n"}
{"id": "6138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6138", "title": "Conjecture", "text": "Conjecture\n\nIn mathematics, a conjecture is a conclusion or proposition based on incomplete information, for which no proof has been found. Conjectures such as the Riemann hypothesis (still a conjecture) or Fermat's Last Theorem (which was a conjecture until proven in 1995 by Andrew Wiles) have shaped much of mathematical history as new areas of mathematics are developed in order to prove them.\n\nIn number theory, Fermat's Last Theorem (sometimes called Fermat's conjecture, especially in older texts) states that no three positive integers \"a\", \"b\", and \"c\" can satisfy the equation \"a\" + \"b\" = \"c\" for any integer value of \"n\" greater than two.\n\nThis theorem was first conjectured by Pierre de Fermat in 1637 in the margin of a copy of \"Arithmetica\" where he claimed he had a proof that was too large to fit in the margin. The first successful proof was released in 1994 by Andrew Wiles, and formally published in 1995, after 358 years of effort by mathematicians. The unsolved problem stimulated the development of algebraic number theory in the 19th century and the proof of the modularity theorem in the 20th century. It is among the most notable theorems in the history of mathematics and prior to its proof it was in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" for \"most difficult mathematical problems\".\n\nIn mathematics, the four color theorem, or the four color map theorem, states that, given any separation of a plane into contiguous regions, producing a figure called a \"map\", no more than four colors are required to color the regions of the map so that no two adjacent regions have the same color. Two regions are called \"adjacent\" if they share a common boundary that is not a corner, where corners are the points shared by three or more regions. For example, in the map of the United States of America, Utah and Arizona are adjacent, but Utah and New Mexico, which only share a point that also belongs to Arizona and Colorado, are not.\n\nMöbius mentioned the problem in his lectures as early as 1840. The conjecture was first proposed on October 23, 1852 when Francis Guthrie, while trying to color the map of counties of England, noticed that only four different colors were needed. The five color theorem, which has a short elementary proof, states that five colors suffice to color a map and was proven in the late 19th century ; however, proving that four colors suffice turned out to be significantly harder. A number of false proofs and false counterexamples have appeared since the first statement of the four color theorem in 1852.\n\nThe four color theorem was proven in 1976 by Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken. It was the first major theorem to be proved using a computer. Appel and Haken's approach started by showing that there is a particular set of 1,936 maps, each of which cannot be part of a smallest-sized counterexample to the four color theorem. (If they did appear, you could make a smaller counter-example.) Appel and Haken used a special-purpose computer program to confirm that each of these maps had this property. Additionally, any map that could potentially be a counterexample must have a portion that looks like one of these 1,936 maps. Showing this required hundreds of pages of hand analysis, Appel and Haken concluded that no smallest counterexamples exists because any must contain, yet do not contain, one of these 1,936 maps. This contradiction means there are no counterexamples at all and that the theorem is therefore true. Initially, their proof was not accepted by all mathematicians because the computer-assisted proof was infeasible for a human to check by hand . Since then the proof has gained wider acceptance, although doubts remain .\n\nThe Hauptvermutung (German for main conjecture) of geometric topology is the conjecture that any two triangulations of a triangulable space have a common refinement, a single triangulation that is a subdivision of both of them. It was originally formulated in 1908, by Steinitz and Tietze.\n\nThis conjecture is now known to be false. The non-manifold version was disproved by John Milnor in 1961 using Reidemeister torsion.\n\nThe manifold version is true in dimensions . The cases were proved by Tibor Radó and Edwin E. Moise in the 1920s and 1950s, respectively.\n\nIn mathematics, the Weil conjectures were some highly influential proposals by on the generating functions (known as local zeta-functions) derived from counting the number of points on algebraic varieties over finite fields.\n\nA variety \"V\" over a finite field with \"q\" elements has a finite number of rational points, as well as points over every finite field with \"q\" elements containing that field. The generating function has coefficients derived from the numbers \"N\" of points over the (essentially unique) field with \"q\" elements.\n\nWeil conjectured that such \"zeta-functions\" should be rational functions, should satisfy a form of functional equation, and should have their zeroes in restricted places. The last two parts were quite consciously modeled on the Riemann zeta function and Riemann hypothesis. The rationality was proved by , the functional equation by , and the analogue of the Riemann hypothesis was proved by \n\nIn mathematics, the Poincaré conjecture is a theorem about the characterization of the 3-sphere, which is the hypersphere that bounds the unit ball in four-dimensional space. The conjecture states: An equivalent form of the conjecture involves a coarser form of equivalence than homeomorphism called homotopy equivalence: if a 3-manifold is \"homotopy equivalent\" to the 3-sphere, then it is necessarily \"homeomorphic\" to it.\n\nOriginally conjectured by Henri Poincaré, the theorem concerns a space that locally looks like ordinary three-dimensional space but is connected, finite in size, and lacks any boundary (a closed 3-manifold). The Poincaré conjecture claims that if such a space has the additional property that each loop in the space can be continuously tightened to a point, then it is necessarily a three-dimensional sphere. An analogous result has been known in higher dimensions for some time.\n\nAfter nearly a century of effort by mathematicians, Grigori Perelman presented a proof of the conjecture in three papers made available in 2002 and 2003 on arXiv. The proof followed on from the program of Richard S. Hamilton to use the Ricci flow to attempt to solve the problem. Hamilton later introduced a modification of the standard Ricci flow, called \"Ricci flow with surgery\" to systematically excise singular regions as they develop, in a controlled way, but was unable to prove this method \"converged\" in three dimensions. Perelman completed this portion of the proof. Several teams of mathematicians have verified that Perelman's proof is correct.\n\nThe Poincaré conjecture, before being proven, was one of the most important open questions in topology.\n\nIn mathematics, the Riemann hypothesis, proposed by , is a conjecture that the non-trivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function all have real part 1/2. The name is also used for some closely related analogues, such as the Riemann hypothesis for curves over finite fields.\n\nThe Riemann hypothesis implies results about the distribution of prime numbers. Along with suitable generalizations, some mathematicians consider it the most important unresolved problem in pure mathematics . The Riemann hypothesis, along with the Goldbach conjecture, is part of Hilbert's eighth problem in David Hilbert's list of 23 unsolved problems; it is also one of the Clay Mathematics Institute Millennium Prize Problems.\n\nThe P versus NP problem is a major unsolved problem in computer science. Informally, it asks whether every problem whose solution can be quickly verified by a computer can also be quickly solved by a computer; it is widely conjectured that the answer is no. It was essentially first mentioned in a 1956 letter written by Kurt Gödel to John von Neumann. Gödel asked whether a certain NP complete problem could be solved in quadratic or linear time. The precise statement of the P=NP problem was introduced in 1971 by Stephen Cook in his seminal paper \"The complexity of theorem proving procedures\" and is considered by many to be the most important open problem in the field. It is one of the seven Millennium Prize Problems selected by the Clay Mathematics Institute to carry a US$1,000,000 prize for the first correct solution.\n\n\nFormal mathematics is based on \"provable\" truth. In mathematics, any number of cases supporting a conjecture, no matter how large, is insufficient for establishing the conjecture's veracity, since a single counterexample would immediately bring down the conjecture. Mathematical journals sometimes publish the minor results of research teams having extended the search for a counterexample farther than previously done. For instance, the Collatz conjecture, which concerns whether or not certain sequences of integers terminate, has been tested for all integers up to 1.2 × 10 (over a trillion). However, the failure to find a counterexample after extensive search does not constitute a proof that no counterexample exists nor that the conjecture is true, because the conjecture might be false but with a very large minimal counterexample.\n\nInstead, a conjecture is considered proven only when it has been shown that it is logically impossible for it to be false. There are various methods of doing so; see Mathematical proof#Methods for details.\n\nOne method of proof, usable when there are only a finite number of cases that could lead to counterexamples, is known as \"brute force\": in this approach, all possible cases are considered and shown not to give counterexamples. Sometimes the number of cases is quite large, in which situation a brute-force proof may require as a practical matter the use of a computer algorithm to check all the cases: the validity of the 1976 and 1997 brute-force proofs of the four color theorem by computer was initially doubted, but was eventually confirmed in 2005 by theorem-proving software.\n\nWhen a conjecture has been proven, it is no longer a conjecture but a theorem. Many important theorems were once conjectures, such as the Geometrization theorem (which resolved the Poincaré conjecture), Fermat's Last Theorem, and others.\n\nConjectures disproven through counterexample are sometimes referred to as \"false conjectures\" (cf. the Pólya conjecture and Euler's sum of powers conjecture). In the case of the latter, the first counterexample found for the n=4 case involved numbers in the millions, although subsequently it has been found that the minimal counterexample is smaller than that.\n\nNot every conjecture ends up being proven true or false. The continuum hypothesis, which tries to ascertain the relative cardinality of certain infinite sets, was eventually shown to be undecidable (or independent) from the generally accepted set of axioms of set theory. It is therefore possible to adopt this statement, or its negation, as a new axiom in a consistent manner (much as we can take Euclid's parallel postulate as either true or false).\n\nIn this case, if a proof uses this statement, researchers will often look for a new proof that \"doesn't\" require the hypothesis (in the same way that it is desirable that statements in Euclidean geometry be proved using only the axioms of neutral geometry, i.e. no parallel postulate.) The one major exception to this in practice is the axiom of choice—unless studying this axiom in particular, the majority of researchers do not usually worry whether a result requires the axiom of choice.\n\nSometimes a conjecture is called a \"hypothesis\" when it is used frequently and repeatedly as an assumption in proofs of other results. For example, the Riemann hypothesis is a conjecture from number theory that (amongst other things) makes predictions about the distribution of prime numbers. Few number theorists doubt that the Riemann hypothesis is true. In anticipation of its eventual proof, some have proceeded to develop further proofs which are contingent on the truth of this conjecture. These are called \"conditional proofs\": the conjectures assumed appear in the hypotheses of the theorem, for the time being.\n\nThese \"proofs\", however, would fall apart if it turned out that the hypothesis was false, so there is considerable interest in verifying the truth or falsity of conjectures of this type.\n\nKarl Popper pioneered the use of the term \"conjecture\" in scientific philosophy. Conjecture is related to hypothesis, which in science refers to a testable conjecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4603176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603176", "title": "Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism", "text": "Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism\n\nThe covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism refers to ways of writing the laws of classical electromagnetism (in particular, Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force) in a form that is manifestly invariant under Lorentz transformations, in the formalism of special relativity using rectilinear inertial coordinate systems. These expressions both make it simple to prove that the laws of classical electromagnetism take the same form in any inertial coordinate system, and also provide a way to translate the fields and forces from one frame to another. However, this is not as general as Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime or non-rectilinear coordinate systems.\n\nThis article uses the classical treatment of tensors and Einstein summation convention throughout and the Minkowski metric has the form diag (+1, −1, −1, −1). Where the equations are specified as holding in a vacuum, one could instead regard them as the formulation of Maxwell's equations in terms of \"total\" charge and current.\n\nFor a more general overview of the relationships between classical electromagnetism and special relativity, including various conceptual implications of this picture, see Classical electromagnetism and special relativity.\n\nLorentz tensors of the following kinds may be used in this article to describe bodies or particles:\n\nThe signs in the following tensor analysis depend on the convention used for the metric tensor. The convention used here is +−−−, corresponding to the Minkowski metric tensor:\n\nThe electromagnetic tensor is the combination of the electric and magnetic fields into a covariant antisymmetric tensor whose entries are B-field quantities.\n\nand the result of raising its indices is\n\nwhere E is the electric field, B the magnetic field, and \"c\" the speed of light.\n\nThe four-current is the contravariant four-vector which combines electric charge density \"ρ\" and electric current density j:\n\nThe electromagnetic four-potential is a covariant four-vector containing the electric potential (also called the scalar potential) \"ϕ\" and magnetic vector potential (or vector potential) A, as follows:\n\nThe differential of the electromagnetic potential is\n\nThe electromagnetic stress–energy tensor can be interpreted as the flux density of the momentum 4-vector, and is a contravariant symmetric tensor that is the contribution of the electromagnetic fields to the overall stress–energy tensor:\n\nwhere \"ε\" is the electric permittivity of vacuum, \"μ\" is the magnetic permeability of vacuum, the Poynting vector is\n\nand the Maxwell stress tensor is given by\n\nThe electromagnetic field tensor \"F\" constructs the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor \"T\" by the equation:\nwhere \"η\" is the Minkowski metric tensor. Notice that we use the fact that\nwhich is predicted by Maxwell's equations.\n\nIn vacuum (or for the microscopic equations, not including macroscopic material descriptions), Maxwell's equations can be written as two tensor equations.\n\nThe two inhomogeneous Maxwell's equations, Gauss's Law and Ampère's law (with Maxwell's correction) combine into (with +−−− metric):\n\nwhile the homogeneous equations – Faraday's law of induction and Gauss's law for magnetism combine to form:\n\nwhere \"F\" is the electromagnetic tensor, \"J\" is the 4-current, \"ε\" is the Levi-Civita symbol, and the indices behave according to the Einstein summation convention.\n\nEach of these tensor equations corresponds to four scalar equations, one for each value of \"β\". \n\nUsing the antisymmetric tensor notation and comma notation for the partial derivative (see Ricci calculus), the second equation can also be written more compactly as:\n\nIn the absence of sources, Maxwell's equations reduce to:\n\nwhich is an electromagnetic wave equation in the field strength tensor.\n\nThe Lorenz gauge condition is a Lorentz-invariant gauge condition. (This can be contrasted with other gauge conditions such as the Coulomb gauge, which if it holds in one inertial frame it will generally not hold in any other.) It is expressed in terms of the four-potential as follows:\n\nIn the Lorenz gauge, the microscopic Maxwell's equations can be written as:\n\nElectromagnetic (EM) fields affect the motion of electrically charged matter: due to the Lorentz force. In this way, EM fields can be detected (with applications in particle physics, and natural occurrences such as in aurorae). In relativistic form, the Lorentz force uses the field strength tensor as follows.\n\nExpressed in terms of coordinate time \"t\", it is:\n\nwhere \"p\" is the four-momentum, \"q\" is the charge, and \"x\" is the position.\n\nIn the co-moving reference frame, this yields the 4-force\n\nwhere \"u\" is the four-velocity, and τ is the particle's proper time, which is related to coordinate time by \"dt\" = γ\"d\"τ.\n\nThe density of force due to electromagnetism, whose spatial part is the Lorentz force, is given by \n\nand is related to the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor by\n\nThe continuity equation:\nexpresses charge conservation.\n\nUsing the Maxwell equations, one can see that the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor (defined above) satisfies the following differential equation, relating it to the electromagnetic tensor and the current four-vector\n\nor\n\nwhich expresses the conservation of linear momentum and energy by electromagnetic interactions.\n\nIn order to solve the equations of electromagnetism given here, it is necessary to add information about how to calculate the electric current, \"J\" Frequently, it is convenient to separate the current into two parts, the free current and the bound current, which are modeled by different equations;\n\nwhere\n\nMaxwell's macroscopic equations have been used, in addition the definitions of the electric displacement D and the magnetic intensity H:\n\nwhere M is the magnetization and P the electric polarization.\n\nThe bound current is derived from the P and M fields which form an antisymmetric contravariant magnetization-polarization tensor \n\nwhich determines the bound current\n\nIf this is combined with \"F\" we get the antisymmetric contravariant electromagnetic displacement tensor which combines the D and H fields as follows:\n\nThe three field tensors are related by:\n\nwhich is equivalent to the definitions of the D and H fields given above.\n\nThe result is that Ampère's law, \nand Gauss's law, \n\ncombine into one equation:\n\n_{\\text{free}} = \\partial_{\\mu} \\mathcal{D}^{\\mu \\nu} </math>\n\nThe bound current and free current as defined above are automatically and separately conserved\n\nIn vacuum, the constitutive relations between the field tensor and displacement tensor are:\n\nAntisymmetry reduces these 16 equations to just six independent equations. Because it is usual to define \"F\" by\n\nthe constitutive equations may, in \"vacuum\", be combined with the Gauss–Ampère law to get:\n\nThe electromagnetic stress–energy tensor in terms of the displacement is:\n\nwhere \"δ\" is the Kronecker delta. When the upper index is lowered with \"η\", it becomes symmetric and is part of the source of the gravitational field.\n\nThus we have reduced the problem of modeling the current, \"J\" to two (hopefully) easier problems — modeling the free current, \"J\" and modeling the magnetization and polarization, formula_48. For example, in the simplest materials at low frequencies, one has\n\nwhere one is in the instantaneously comoving inertial frame of the material, σ is its electrical conductivity, χ is its electric susceptibility, and χ is its magnetic susceptibility.\n\nThe constitutive relations between the formula_52 and \"F\" tensors, proposed by Minkowski for a linear materials (that is, E is proportional to D and B proportional to H), are:\n\nwhere \"u\" is the 4-velocity of material, ε and μ are respectively the proper permittivity and permeability of the material (i.e. in rest frame of material), formula_55 and denotes the Hodge dual.\n\nThe Lagrangian density for classical electrodynamics is\n\nIn the interaction term, the four-current should be understood as an abbreviation of many terms expressing the electric currents of other charged fields in terms of their variables; the four-current is not itself a fundamental field.\n\nThe Euler–Lagrange equation for the electromagnetic Lagrangian density formula_57 can be stated as follows:\n\nNoting \nthe expression inside the square bracket is \n\nThe second term is\n\nTherefore, the electromagnetic field's equations of motion are\nwhich is one of the Maxwell equations above.\n\nSeparating the free currents from the bound currents, another way to write the Lagrangian density is as follows:\n\nUsing Euler–Lagrange equation, the equations of motion for formula_64 can be derived.\n\nThe equivalent expression in non-relativistic vector notation is\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52436579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52436579", "title": "Dangerous proximity doctrine", "text": "Dangerous proximity doctrine\n\nThe dangerous proximity doctrine is a standard for distinguishing between preparation and attempt in a criminal case. It was advocated by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. The standard is not a clear bright line. The evidence that preparatory acts are an actual attempt is considered to be stronger if the offense is more probable and more grave or serious. It has similarities with the physical proximity doctrine.\n"}
{"id": "221530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221530", "title": "De Rham cohomology", "text": "De Rham cohomology\n\nIn mathematics, de Rham cohomology (after Georges de Rham) is a tool belonging both to algebraic topology and to differential topology, capable of expressing basic topological information about smooth manifolds in a form particularly adapted to computation and the concrete representation of cohomology classes. It is a cohomology theory based on the existence of differential forms with prescribed properties.\n\nThe de Rham complex is the cochain complex of differential forms on some smooth manifold , with the exterior derivative as the differential:\n\nwhere is the space of smooth functions on , is the space of -forms, and so forth. Forms that are the image of other forms under the exterior derivative, plus the constant function in , are called exact and forms whose exterior derivative is are called closed (see \"Closed and exact differential forms\"); the relationship then says that exact forms are closed. \n\nIn contrast, closed forms are not necessarily exact. An illustrative case is a circle as a manifold, and the -form corresponding to the derivative of angle from a reference point at its centre, typically written as (described at \"Closed and exact differential forms\"). There is no function defined on the whole circle such that is its derivative; the increase of in going once around the circle in the positive direction implies a multivalued function . Removing one point of the circle obviates this, at the same time changing the topology of the manifold.\n\nThe idea behind de Rham cohomology is to define equivalence classes of closed forms on a manifold. One classifies two closed forms as cohomologous if they differ by an exact form, that is, if is exact. This classification induces an equivalence relation on the space of closed forms in . One then defines the -th de Rham cohomology group formula_2 to be the set of equivalence classes, that is, the set of closed forms in modulo the exact forms.\n\nNote that, for any manifold composed of disconnected components, each of which is connected, we have that\n\nThis follows from the fact that any smooth function on with zero derivative everywhere is separately constant on each of the connected components of .\n\nOne may often find the general de Rham cohomologies of a manifold using the above fact about the zero cohomology and a Mayer–Vietoris sequence. Another useful fact is that the de Rham cohomology is a homotopy invariant. While the computation is not given, the following are the computed de Rham cohomologies for some common topological objects:\n\nFor the -sphere, \"S\", and also when taken together with a product of open intervals, we have the following. Let , and be an open real interval. Then\n\nSimilarly, allowing here, we obtain\n\nWe can also find explicit generators for the de Rham cohomology of the torus directly using differential forms. Given a quotient manifold formula_6 and a differential form formula_7 we can say that formula_8 is formula_9-invariant if given any diffeomorphism induced by formula_9, formula_11 we can formula_12. In particular, the pullback of any form on formula_13 is formula_9-invariant. Also, the pullback is an injective morphism. In our case of formula_15 the differential forms formula_16 are formula_17-invariant since formula_18. But, notice that formula_19 for formula_20 is not an invariant formula_21-form. This with injectivity implies that\n\nSince the cohomology ring of a torus is generated by formula_23, taking the exterior products of these forms gives all of the explicit representatives for the de Rham cohomology of a torus.\n\nPunctured Euclidean space is simply Euclidean space with the origin removed.\n\nWe may deduce from the fact that the Möbius strip, , can be deformation retracted to the -sphere (i.e. the real unit circle), that:\n\nStokes' theorem is an expression of duality between de Rham cohomology and the homology of chains. It says that the pairing of differential forms and chains, via integration, gives a homomorphism from de Rham cohomology formula_2 to singular cohomology groups formula_27 De Rham's theorem, proved by Georges de Rham in 1931, states that for a smooth manifold , this map is in fact an isomorphism. \n\nMore precisely, consider the map \n\ndefined as follows: for any formula_29, let be the element of formula_30 that acts as follows: \n\nThe theorem of de Rham asserts that this is an isomorphism between de Rham cohomology and singular cohomology.\n\nThe exterior product endows the direct sum of these groups with a ring structure. A further result of the theorem is that the two cohomology rings are isomorphic (as graded rings), where the analogous product on singular cohomology is the cup product.\n\nThe de Rham cohomology is isomorphic to the Čech cohomology , where is the sheaf of abelian groups determined by formula_32 for all connected open sets , and for open sets such that , the group morphism is given by the identity map on formula_33 and where is a good open cover of (i.e. all the open sets in the open cover are contractible to a point, and all finite intersections of sets in are either empty or contractible to a point).\n\nStated another way, if is a compact manifold of dimension , then for each , there is an isomorphism\n\nwhere the left-hand side is the -th de Rham cohomology group and the right-hand side is the Čech cohomology for the constant sheaf with fibre formula_35\n\nLet denote the sheaf of germs of -forms on (with the sheaf of functions on ). By the Poincaré lemma, the following sequence of sheaves is exact (in the category of sheaves):\n\nThis sequence now breaks up into short exact sequences\n\nEach of these induces a long exact sequence in cohomology. Since the sheaf of functions on a manifold admits partitions of unity, the sheaf-cohomology vanishes for . So the long exact cohomology sequences themselves ultimately separate into a chain of isomorphisms. At one end of the chain is the Čech cohomology and at the other lies the de Rham cohomology.\n\nThe de Rham cohomology has inspired many mathematical ideas, including Dolbeault cohomology, Hodge theory, and the Atiyah–Singer index theorem. However, even in more classical contexts, the theorem has inspired a number of developments. Firstly, the Hodge theory proves that there is an isomorphism between the cohomology consisting of harmonic forms and the de Rham cohomology consisting of closed forms modulo exact forms. This relies on an appropriate definition of harmonic forms and of the Hodge theorem. For further details see Hodge theory.\n\nIf is a compact Riemannian manifold, then each equivalence class in formula_38 contains exactly one harmonic form. That is, every member of a given equivalence class of closed forms can be written as \n\nwhere is exact and is harmonic: .\n\nAny harmonic function on a compact connected Riemannian manifold is a constant. Thus, this particular representative element can be understood to be an extremum (a minimum) of all cohomologously equivalent forms on the manifold. For example, on a -torus, one may envision a constant -form as one where all of the \"hair\" is combed neatly in the same direction (and all of the \"hair\" having the same length). In this case, there are two cohomologically distinct combings; all of the others are linear combinations. In particular, this implies that the 1st Betti number of a -torus is two. More generally, on an -dimensional torus , one can consider the various combings of -forms on the torus. There are choose such combings that can be used to form the basis vectors for formula_40; the -th Betti number for the de Rham cohomology group for the -torus is thus choose .\n\nMore precisely, for a differential manifold , one may equip it with some auxiliary Riemannian metric. Then the Laplacian is defined by \n\nwith the exterior derivative and the codifferential. The Laplacian is a homogeneous (in grading) linear differential operator acting upon the exterior algebra of differential forms: we can look at its action on each component of degree separately. \n\nIf is compact and oriented, the dimension of the kernel of the Laplacian acting upon the space of -forms is then equal (by Hodge theory) to that of the de Rham cohomology group in degree : the Laplacian picks out a unique \"harmonic\" form in each cohomology class of closed forms. In particular, the space of all harmonic -forms on is isomorphic to formula_27 The dimension of each such space is finite, and is given by the -th Betti number.\n\nLet be a compact oriented Riemannian manifold. The \"Hodge decomposition\" states that any -form on uniquely splits into the sum of three components:\n\nwhere is exact, is co-exact, and is harmonic.\n\nOne says that a form is co-closed if and co-exact if for some form , and that is harmonic if . This follows by noting that exact and co-exact forms are orthogonal; the orthogonal complement then consists of forms that are both closed and co-closed: that is, of harmonic forms. Here, orthogonality is defined with respect to the inner product on :\n\nBy use of Sobolev spaces or distributions, the decomposition can be extended for example to a complete (oriented or not) Riemannian manifold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157093", "title": "Dot product", "text": "Dot product\n\nIn mathematics, the dot product or scalar product is an algebraic operation that takes two equal-length sequences of numbers (usually coordinate vectors) and returns a single number. In Euclidean geometry, the dot product of the Cartesian coordinates of two vectors is widely used and often called \"the\" inner product (or rarely projection product) of Euclidean space even though it is not the only inner product that can be defined on Euclidean space; see also inner product space.\n\nAlgebraically, the dot product is the sum of the products of the corresponding entries of the two sequences of numbers. Geometrically, it is the product of the Euclidean magnitudes of the two vectors and the cosine of the angle between them. These definitions are equivalent when using Cartesian coordinates. In modern geometry, Euclidean spaces are often defined by using vector spaces. In this case, the dot product is used for defining lengths (the length of a vector is the square root of the dot product of the vector by itself) and angles (the cosine of the angle of two vectors is the quotient of their dot product by the product of their lengths).\n\nThe name \"dot product\" is derived from the centered dot \" · \" that is often used to designate this operation; the alternative name \"scalar product\" emphasizes that the result is a scalar, rather than a vector, as is the case for the vector product in three-dimensional space.\n\nThe dot product may be defined algebraically or geometrically. The geometric definition is based on the notions of angle and distance (magnitude of vectors). The equivalence of these two definitions relies on having a Cartesian coordinate system for Euclidean space.\n\nIn modern presentations of Euclidean geometry, the points of space are defined in terms of their Cartesian coordinates, and Euclidean space itself is commonly identified with the real coordinate space R. In such a presentation, the notions of length and angles are defined by means of the dot product. The length of a vector is defined as the square root of the dot product of the vector by itself, and the cosine of the (non oriented) angle of two vectors of length one is defined as their dot product. So the equivalence of the two definitions of the dot product is a part of the equivalence of the classical and the modern formulations of Euclidean geometry.\n\nThe dot product of two vectors and is defined as:\n\nwhere Σ denotes summation and \"n\" is the dimension of the vector space. For instance, in three-dimensional space, the dot product of vectors and is:\n\nIf vectors are identified with row matrices, the dot product can also be written as a matrix product\n\nwhere formula_4 denotes the transpose of formula_5.\n\nExpressing the above example in this way, a 1 × 3 matrix (row vector) is multiplied by a 3 × 1 matrix (column vector) to get a 1 × 1 matrix that is identified with its unique entry: \n\nIn Euclidean space, a Euclidean vector is a geometric object that possesses both a magnitude and a direction. A vector can be pictured as an arrow. Its magnitude is its length, and its direction is the direction that the arrow points. The magnitude of a vector a is denoted by formula_7. The dot product of two Euclidean vectors a and b is defined by\nwhere is the angle between a and b.\n\nIn particular, if a and b are orthogonal (the angle between vectors is 90°) then due to formula_9\n\nAt the other extreme, if they are codirectional, then the angle between them is 0° and\nThis implies that the dot product of a vector a with itself is\nwhich gives\nthe formula for the Euclidean length of the vector.\n\nThe scalar projection (or scalar component) of a Euclidean vector a in the direction of a Euclidean vector b is given by\nwhere is the angle between a and b.\n\nIn terms of the geometric definition of the dot product, this can be rewritten\nwhere formula_16 is the unit vector in the direction of b.\nThe dot product is thus characterized geometrically by\nThe dot product, defined in this manner, is homogeneous under scaling in each variable, meaning that for any scalar \"α\",\nIt also satisfies a distributive law, meaning that\n\nThese properties may be summarized by saying that the dot product is a bilinear form. Moreover, this bilinear form is positive definite, which means that \nformula_20\nis never negative and is zero if and only if formula_21, the zero vector.\n\nIf e, ..., e are the standard basis vectors in R, then we may write\nThe vectors e are an orthonormal basis, which means that they have unit length and are at right angles to each other. Hence since these vectors have unit length\nand since they form right angles with each other, if ,\nThus in general we can say that:\nWhere δ is the Kronecker delta.\n\nAlso, by the geometric definition, for any vector e and a vector a, we note\nwhere \"a\" is the component of vector a in the direction of e.\n\nNow applying the distributivity of the geometric version of the dot product gives\nwhich is precisely the algebraic definition of the dot product. So the geometric dot product equals the algebraic dot product.\n\nThe dot product fulfills the following properties if a, b, and c are real vectors and \"r\" is a scalar.\n\n\nGiven two vectors a and b separated by angle \"θ\" (see image right), they form a triangle with a third side . The dot product of this with itself is:\n\nwhich is the law of cosines.\nThere are two ternary operations involving dot product and cross product.\n\nThe scalar triple product of three vectors is defined as\nIts value is the determinant of the matrix whose columns are the Cartesian coordinates of the three vectors. It is the signed volume of the parallelogram defined by the three vectors.\n\nThe vector triple product is defined by\nThis identity, also known as \"Lagrange's formula\" may be remembered as \"BAC minus CAB\", keeping in mind which vectors are dotted together. This formula finds application in simplifying vector calculations in physics.\n\nIn physics, vector magnitude is a scalar in the physical sense, i.e. a physical quantity independent of the coordinate system, expressed as the product of a numerical value and a physical unit, not just a number. The dot product is also a scalar in this sense, given by the formula, independent of the coordinate system. Examples include:\n\nFor vectors with complex entries, using the given definition of the dot product would lead to quite different properties. For instance the dot product of a vector with itself would be an arbitrary complex number, and could be zero without the vector being the zero vector (such vectors are called isotropic); this in turn would have consequences for notions like length and angle. Properties such as the positive-definite norm can be salvaged at the cost of giving up the symmetric and bilinear properties of the scalar product, through the alternative definition\n\nwhere \"a\"\"\" is the complex conjugate of \"a\". Then the scalar product of any vector with itself is a non-negative real number, and it is nonzero except for the zero vector. However this scalar product is thus sesquilinear rather than bilinear: it is conjugate linear and not linear in a, and the scalar product is not symmetric, since\nThe angle between two complex vectors is then given by\n\nThis type of scalar product is nevertheless useful, and leads to the notions of Hermitian form and of general inner product spaces.\n\nThe inner product generalizes the dot product to abstract vector spaces over a field of scalars, being either the field of real numbers formula_39 or the field of complex numbers formula_40. It is usually denoted using angular brackets by formula_41.\n\nThe inner product of two vectors over the field of complex numbers is, in general, a complex number, and is sesquilinear instead of bilinear. An inner product space is a normed vector space, and the inner product of a vector with itself is real and positive-definite.\n\nThe dot product is defined for vectors that have a finite number of entries. Thus these vectors can be regarded as discrete functions: a length- vector is, then, a function with domain }, and is a notation for the image of by the function/vector .\n\nThis notion can be generalized to continuous functions: just as the inner product on vectors uses a sum over corresponding components, the inner product on functions is defined as an integral over some interval (also denoted ):\n\nGeneralized further to complex functions and , by analogy with the complex inner product above, gives\n\nInner products can have a weight function, i.e. a function which weights each term of the inner product with a value.\n\nMatrices have the Frobenius inner product, which is analogous to the vector inner product. It is defined as the sum of the products of the corresponding components of two matrices A and B having the same size:\n\nDyadics have a dot product and \"double\" dot product defined on them, see Dyadics (Product of dyadic and dyadic) for their definitions.\n\nThe inner product between a tensor of order \"n\" and a tensor of order \"m\" is a tensor of order , see tensor contraction for details.\n\nThe straightforward algorithm for calculating a floating-point dot product of vectors can suffer from catastrophic cancellation. To avoid this, approaches such as the Kahan summation algorithm are used.\n\nA dot product function is included in BLAS level 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28437161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28437161", "title": "Earth Economics", "text": "Earth Economics\n\nEarth Economics is a 501c3 non-profit headquartered in Tacoma, Washington, United States. The organization uses natural capital valuation to help decision makers and local stakeholders understand the value of natural capital assets. By identifying, monetizing, and valuing natural capital and ecosystem services, Earth Economics helps communities and organizations make sound investment and policy decisions that mitigate risk, add value, and build resilience. The organization has a small in-house staff of economists that collaborate with experts in economics, ecology, hydrology, policy and systems modeling.\n\nEarth Economics' current mission states, \"We quantify and value the benefits nature provides. Our work drives effective decisions and systemic change through a combination of education, natural capital analysis, and policy recommendations.\"\n\nAccording to its website, Earth Economics offers \"a pragmatic, collaborative approach to help organizations make sound investment and policy decisions that mitigate risk, add value, and build resilience by taking nature into account.\" The organization currently focuses on the global and regional priorities of working lands, freshwater, oceans, forests, and communities.\n\nEarth Economics offers five types of services: \n\nOriginally known as the Asia-Pacific Environmental Exchange (APEX), the organization was founded as a project of The Tides Center. The initial co-founders were David Batker, Jim Puckett, Annie Leonard, Joshua Farley, Joshua Reyneveld, and Isabel De La Torre. Earth Economics evolved into an autonomous organization and received IRS 501(c)3 tax exempt, public charity status in March 2006.\n\nFrom 2006 until 2016, co-founder David Batker acted as Earth Economics' Executive Director and Chief Economist. In 2016, Batker moved to a joint President and Chief Economist position. Batker's research and advocacy focuses on the value that natural systems have in providing food, water, flood risk reduction, climate stabilization, and other benefits. His work has been used to establish the value of watersheds and new funding mechanisms for maintaining natural capital.\n\nEarth Economics has a track record of working alongside NGOs, businesses, and governmental organizations to inform investment and shift local and international policy in ways that account for the benefits of ecosystem services. Since 2013, Earth Economics has been working to incorporate ecosystem services in federal benefit-cost analysis and accounting practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "52275835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52275835", "title": "Earth symbol", "text": "Earth symbol\n\nA variety of symbols or iconographic conventions are used to represent Earth, either in the sense of planet Earth, or the inhabited world. Representations of the globe of Earth, either with an indication of the shape of the continents or with a representation of meridians and parallels remains a common pictographic convention to express the notion of \"worldwide, global\". The modern astronomical symbol for Earth as a planet uses either a stylized globus cruciger () or a circle with a cross (representing the equator and one meridian; ().\n\nThe earliest type of symbols are allegories, personifications or deifications, mostly in the form of an Earth goddess (in the case of Egyptian mythology a god, Geb).\n\nThe classical element \"Earth\" is represented by the trigram of three broken lines in the I Ching ( U+2637). The Western (early modern) alchemical symbol is a downward-pointing triangle bisected by a horizontal line.\nOther symbols for the earth in alchemy or mysticism include the square and the serpent.\n\nIn the Roman period, the globe, a representation of the spherical Earth, became the main symbol representing the concept.\nThe globe depicted the \"universe\" (pictured as the celestial sphere) as well as the Earth.\nThe globus cruciger is the globe surmounted by a Christian cross, held by Byzantine Emperors on the one hand to represent the Christian ecumene, on the other hand the Akakia represented the mortal nature of all men.\nIn the medieval period, the known world was also represented by the T-and-O figure, representing an extremely simplified world map of the three classical continents of the Old World, viz. \"Asia, Europe\" and \"Africa\".\nUnicode has introduced a four characters representing the \"globe\" in the Miscellaneous Symbols and Pictographs block:\n\n"}
{"id": "2490200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2490200", "title": "Evolutionary ethics", "text": "Evolutionary ethics\n\nEvolutionary ethics is a field of inquiry that explores how evolutionary theory might bear on our understanding of ethics or morality. The range of issues investigated by evolutionary ethics is quite broad. Supporters of evolutionary ethics have claimed that it has important implications in the fields of descriptive ethics, normative ethics, and metaethics.\n\nDescriptive evolutionary ethics consists of biological approaches to morality based on the alleged role of evolution in shaping human psychology and behavior. Such approaches may be based in scientific fields such as evolutionary psychology, sociobiology, or ethology, and seek to explain certain human moral behaviors, capacities, and tendencies in evolutionary terms. For example, the nearly universal belief that incest is morally wrong might be explained as an evolutionary adaptation that furthered human survival.\n\nNormative (or prescriptive) evolutionary ethics, by contrast, seeks not to explain moral behavior, but to justify or debunk certain normative ethical theories or claims. For instance, some proponents of normative evolutionary ethics have argued that evolutionary theory undermines certain widely held views of humans' moral superiority over other animals.\n\nEvolutionary metaethics asks how evolutionary theory bears on theories of ethical discourse, the question of whether objective moral values exist, and the possibility of objective moral knowledge. For example, some evolutionary ethicists have appealed to evolutionary theory to defend various forms of moral anti-realism (the claim, roughly, that objective moral facts do not exist) and moral skepticism.\n\nThe first notable attempt to explore links between evolution and ethics was made by Charles Darwin in \"The Descent of Man\" (1871). In Chapters IV and V of that work Darwin set out to explain the origin of human morality in order to show that there was no absolute gap between man and animals. Darwin sought to show how a refined moral sense, or conscience, could have developed through a natural evolutionary process that began with social instincts rooted in our nature as social animals.\n\nNot long after the publication of Darwin's \"The Descent of Man\", evolutionary ethics took a very different—and far more dubious—turn in the form of Social Darwinism. Leading Social Darwinists such as Herbert Spencer and William Graham Sumner sought to apply the lessons of biological evolution to social and political life. Just as in nature, they claimed, progress occurs through a ruthless process of competitive struggle and \"survival of the fittest,\" so human progress will occur only if government allows unrestricted business competition and makes no effort to protect the \"weak\" or \"unfit\" by means of social welfare laws. Critics such as Thomas Henry Huxley, G. E. Moore, William James, and John Dewey roundly criticized such attempts to draw ethical and political lessons from Darwinism, and by the early decades of the twentieth century Social Darwinism was widely viewed as discredited.\n\nThe modern revival of evolutionary ethics owes much to E. O. Wilson's 1975 book, \"Sociobiology: The New Synthesis\". In that work, Wilson argues that there is a genetic basis for a wide variety of human and nonhuman social behaviors. In recent decades, evolutionary ethics has become a lively topic of debate in both scientific and philosophical circles.\n\nThe most widely accepted form of evolutionary ethics is descriptive evolutionary ethics. Descriptive evolutionary ethics seeks to explain various kinds of moral phenomena wholly or partly in genetic terms. Ethical topics addressed include altruistic behaviors, an innate sense of fairness, a capacity for normative guidance, feelings of kindness or love, self-sacrifice, incest-avoidance, parental care, in-group loyalty, monogamy, feelings related to competitiveness and retribution, moral \"cheating,\" and hypocrisy.\n\nA key issue in evolutionary psychology has been how altruistic feelings and behaviors could have evolved, in both humans and nonhumans, when the process of natural selection is based on the multiplication over time only of those genes that adapt better to changes in the environment of the species. Theories addressing this have included kin selection, group selection, and reciprocal altruism (both direct and indirect, and on a society-wide scale). Descriptive evolutionary ethicists have also debated whether various types of moral phenomena should be seen as adaptations which have evolved because of their direct adaptive benefits, or spin-offs that evolved as side-effects of adaptive behaviors.\n\nNormative evolutionary ethics is the most controversial branch of evolutionary ethics. Normative evolutionary ethics aims at defining which acts are right or wrong, and which things are good or bad, in evolutionary terms. It is not merely \"describing\", but it is \"prescribing\" goals, values and obligations. Social Darwinism, discussed above, is the most historically influential version of normative evolutionary ethics. As philosopher G. E. Moore famously argued, many early versions of normative evolutionary ethics seemed to commit a logical mistake that Moore dubbed the \"naturalistic fallacy\". This was the mistake of defining a normative property, such as goodness, in terms of some non-normative, naturalistic property, such as pleasure or survival.\n\nMore sophisticated forms of normative evolutionary ethics need not commit either the naturalistic fallacy or the is-ought fallacy. But all varieties of normative evolutionary ethics face the difficult challenge of explaining how evolutionary facts can have normative authority for rational agents. \"Regardless of why one has a given trait, the question for a rational agent is always: is it right for me to exercise it, or should I instead renounce and resist it as far as I am able?\"\n\nEvolutionary theory may not be able to tell us what is morally right or wrong, but it might be able to illuminate our use of moral language, or to cast doubt on the existence of objective moral facts or the possibility of moral knowledge. Evolutionary ethicists such as Michael Ruse, E. O. Wilson, Richard Joyce, and Sharon Street have defended such claims.\n\nSome philosophers who support evolutionary meta-ethics use it to undermine views of human well-being that rely upon Aristotelian teleology, or other goal-directed accounts of human flourishing. A number of thinkers have appealed to evolutionary theory in an attempt to debunk moral realism or support moral skepticism. Sharon Street is one prominent ethicist who argues that evolutionary psychology undercuts moral realism. According to Street, human moral decision-making is \"thoroughly saturated\" with evolutionary influences. Natural selection, she argues, would have rewarded moral dispositions that increased fitness, not ones that track moral truths, should they exist. It would be a remarkable and unlikely coincidence if \"morally blind\" ethical traits aimed solely at survival and reproduction aligned closely with independent moral truths. So we cannot be confident that our moral beliefs accurately track objective moral truth. Consequently, realism forces us to embrace moral skepticism. Such skepticism, Street claims, is implausible. So we should reject realism and instead embrace some antirealist view that allows for rationally justified moral beliefs.\n\nDefenders of moral realism have offered two sorts of replies. One is to deny that evolved moral responses would likely diverge sharply from moral truth. According to David Copp, for example, evolution would favor moral responses that promote social peace, harmony, and cooperation. But such qualities are precisely those that lie at the core of any plausible theory of objective moral truth. So Street's alleged \"dilemma\"—deny evolution or embrace moral skepticism—is a false choice.\n\nA second response to Street is to deny that morality is as \"saturated\" with evolutionary influences as Street claims. William Fitzpatrick, for instance, argues that \"[e]ven if there is significant evolutionary influence on the content of many of our moral beliefs, it remains possible that many of our moral beliefs are arrived at partly (or in some cases wholly) through autonomous moral reflection and reasoning, just as with our mathematical, scientific and philosophical beliefs.\" The wide variability of moral codes, both across cultures and historical time periods, is difficult to explain if morality is as pervasively shaped by genetic factors as Street claims.\n\nAnother common argument evolutionary ethicists use to debunk moral realism is to claim that the success of evolutionary psychology in explaining human ethical responses makes the notion of moral truth \"explanatorily superfluous.\" If we can fully explain, for example, why parents naturally love and care for their children in purely evolutionary terms, there is no need to invoke any \"spooky\" realist moral truths to do any explanatory work. Thus, for reasons of theoretical simplicity we should not posit the existence of such truths and, instead, should explain the widely held belief in objective moral truth as \"an illusion fobbed off on us by our genes in order to get us to cooperate with one another (so that our genes survive).\"\n\nHere again the central question is whether the influence of evolution on morality is as pervasive as the critics of moral realism claim. If, as seems likely, there are important aspects of morality that cannot be explained in genetic terms, appeals to moral truth may not be explanatory fifth-wheels.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71478", "title": "Exotic matter", "text": "Exotic matter\n\nIn physics, exotic matter is matter that somehow deviates from normal matter and has \"exotic\" properties. A broader definition of exotic matter is any kind of non-baryonic matter—that is not made of baryons, the subatomic particles (such as protons and neutrons) of which ordinary matter is composed. Exotic mass has been considered a colloquial term for matters such as dark matter, negative mass, or complex mass.\n\nThere are several types of exotic matter:\n\n\nNegative mass would possess some strange properties, such as accelerating in the direction opposite of applied force. Despite being inconsistent with the expected behavior of \"normal\" matter, negative mass is mathematically consistent and introduces no violation of conservation of momentum or energy. It is used in certain speculative theories, such as on the construction of artificial wormholes and the Alcubierre drive. The closest known real representative of such exotic matter is the region of pseudo-negative-pressure density produced by the Casimir effect.\n\nAccording to mass–energy equivalence, mass formula_1 is in proportion to energy formula_2 and the coefficient of proportionality is formula_3. Actually, formula_4 is still equivalent to formula_2 although the coefficient is another constant such as formula_6. In this case, it is unnecessary to introduce a negative energy because the mass can be negative although the energy is positive. That is to say,\n\nUnder the circumstances，\n\nWhen formula_14,\n\nConsequently,\n\nwhere formula_18 is invariant mass and invariant energy equals formula_19. The squared mass is still positive and the particle can be stable.\n\nSince formula_20,\n\nThe negative momentum is applied to explain negative refraction, inverse Doppler effect and reverse Cherenkov effect observed in a negative index metamaterial. The radiation pressure in the metamaterial is also negative because the force is defined as formula_22. Negative pressure exists in dark energy too. Using these above equations, the energy-momentum relation should be\n\nSubstituting the Planck-Einstein relation formula_24 and de Broglie's formula_25, we obtain the following dispersion relation \n\nof the wave consists of a stream of particles whose energy-momentum relation is formula_23(wave–particle duality) can be excited in a negative index metamaterial.The velocity of such a particle is equal to\n\nand range is from zero to infinity\n\nMoreover, the kinetic energy is also negative\n\nIn fact, the negative kinetic energy exists in some models to describe dark energy (phantom energy) whose pressure is negative. In this way, the negative mass of exotic matter is now associated with negative momentum, negative pressure, negative kinetic energy and FTL (faster-than-light).\n\nA hypothetical particle with complex rest mass would always travel faster than the speed of light. Such particles are called tachyons. There is no confirmed existence of tachyons.\n\nIf the rest mass formula_4 is complex this implies that the denominator is complex because the total energy is observable and thus must be real. Therefore, the quantity under the square root must be negative, which can only happen if \"v\" is greater than \"c\". As noted by Gregory Benford \"et al.,\" special relativity implies that tachyons, if they existed, could be used to communicate backwards in time (see tachyonic antitelephone). Because time travel is considered to be non-physical, tachyons are believed by physicists either not to exist, or else to be incapable of interacting with normal matter.\n\nIn quantum field theory, complex mass would induce tachyon condensation.\n\nAt high pressure, materials such as sodium chloride (NaCl) in the presence of an excess of either chlorine or sodium were transformed into compounds \"forbidden\" by classical chemistry, such as and . Quantum mechanical calculations predict the possibility of other compounds, such as , and . The materials are thermodynamically stable at high pressures. Such compounds may exist in natural environments that exist at high pressure, such as the deep ocean or inside planetary cores. The materials have potentially useful properties. For instance, is a two-dimensional metal, made of layers of pure sodium and salt that can conduct electricity. The salt layers act as insulators while the sodium layers act as conductors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56684417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56684417", "title": "Fashion influencer", "text": "Fashion influencer\n\nA fashion influencer is a personality that has a large number of followers on social media., creates mainly fashion content and has the power to influence the opinion and purchase behavior of others with their recommendations. Brands endorse them to attend fashion shows, parties, designer dinners and exclusive trips and to wear their clothes on social media. If a salary has been involved, the influencer has to label such posts as paid or sponsored content. Before social media \"they would have been called 'It girls'\".\n\nTo reach influencer status one should obtain at least 10,000 followers. Depending on the follower size, it is possible to differentiate between micro, maxi and mega influencers. Micro influencer have around 10,000 loyal followers. Maxi influencers have more than 20,000 and less than 1 million followers. Mega influencers have more than 1 million followers.\n\nBusiness magazine Forbes identified fashion influencers as \"the new celebrity endorsements\". However, influencers seem to have a closer relationship with their audience than traditional celebrities. As marketers Jung von Matt, Brandnew IO and Facelift point out: \"Daily interactions across multiple channels, through photos, stories or live sessions, create a form of closeness and trust\" that make influencers \"often more tangible than traditional celebrities\".\n\nIn 2017, Forbes named Chiara Ferragni, Danielle Bernstein, Julia Engel, Gabi Gregg, Jenn Im, Susanna Lau, Nicolette Mason, Simone Zippi Stardust, Aimee Song and Bryan Yambao (Bryanboy) the top influencers in the fashion category.\n\nIn the beginning of 2000, fashion blogs appeared to be amateurish personal areas. They were created as a hobby by fashion lovers to share their ideas of the latest trends or to get a job in the traditional fashion industry later on. With increasing reach, bloggers learned to monetize their contents. As Pedroni remarks: “fashion blogs evolved from personal diaries kept by fashion lovers, into sophisticated marketing and economic tools”.\n\nShortly after, new social media platforms such as Instagram, Twitter, Facebook and Youtube spread. They enabled bloggers to reach a greater audience and have an even closer relationship with their existing readership. In fact, some bloggers closed their blogs as traffic moved to other platforms such as Instagram. According to researcher Emily Hund “Social media’s influencer economy has gained steam quickly in the last few years, particularly on platforms like Instagram and Pinterest, whose image-heavy nature easily lends itself to commerce”. Social media also gave rise to influencers who did not have a blog in the first place. Jenn Im became a fashion influencer due to her successful Youtube channel, German influencer Pamela Reif due to her high reach on Instagram.\n\nIn 2017, Instagram was the social media platform with the highest reach for fashion influencers. Forbes calculated that the top ten fashion influencers combined generated a reach of 23,3 million on Instagram. At the same time, the fashion industry had the highest share on Instagram influencer marketing in the US. It’s share, approximately 61 percent, dominated by far subsequent sectors investing in influencer marketing such as travel (8 percent) and food and drinks (7 percent). The fashion industry spends around €1 billion on sponsored Instagram posts per year.\n\nFashion influencers generate income through brand co-operations and affiliate links. Principle sources of income are brand co-operations in terms of product placement. Fashion influencers are paid to pose with specific products on their social media channels and must mark them correspondingly.\n\nThe economic value of a fashion influencer is most commonly measured by number of followers. Other key aspects are demographics of their followers, engagement rate and fit between influencer and brand. The latter is the necessary precondition for influencers to work with a brand. As thousands of people follow them for their authentic personality and style, influencers must be able to identify themselves with the brand in order to recommend it convincingly. Many influencers claim to work exclusively with brands they really like and would recommend in private as well. Influencer Camille Charrière reportedly turned down a 5-digit offer of Macy’s, because she could not identify with the clothes: “At the end of the day, I’m selling my taste and my eye – if I do things off-brand I will lose the respect”.\n\nSuccessful fashion influencers generate an income through their social media activities that enables them to quit their jobs and focus solely on their social media career. German fashion influencer Xenia van der Woodsen (xeniaoverdose) left her full-time job at an investment trust, when she realized that she could earn more money with a single Instagram post than working a full day in a regular job.\n\nUntil fashion influencer Danielle Bernstein spoke out on her mid-six figures income in 2015, financial information about the influencer business were relatively rare and inconsistent. In 2017, a study of Jung von Matt, Brandnew IO and Facelift revealed that such a high income is relatively rare among influencers. Only eight out of the 1,200 interviewed influencers earn in average between $10,000 – 25,000 per campaign and only three of them more than $25,000. Albeit the “leading fashion influencers in Germany make over one million in revenue each year”, the majority makes less than $1,000 per campaign.\n\nA majority of influencers receive a salary. Solely a minority of 20 percent makes brand co-operations in exchange for giveaways. The salary primarily depends on the number of followers. The higher the follower number, the higher the salary range. The price for a cooperation depends also on the contract terms, for example if it concerns a one-time Instagram post or a long-term partnership including several posts. Xenia van der Woodsen, one of Germany’s top three fashion influencers in 2017, accepts only long-term brand co-operations in the majority of cases. In her experience, posts of long-term campaigns appear more authentic and credible, whereas single paid content pieces stand out as advertisement.\n\nAffiliate links enable fashion influencers to earn money on commission. The procedure was introduced by Amber Venz Box in 2011 with her rewardStyle program. RewardStyle enables selected bloggers to place individual links on their blog posts that lead consumers to a website where they can directly shop the look. If a costumer buys something in the shop, the influencer gets a sales commission. When lots of traffic started to shift to Instagram, this technique did not work anymore, because Instagram did not allow links in post descriptions and images. Bonx created a new app for Instagram, Snapchat and Pinterest in 2014 – LIKEtoKNOW.it. Since March 2017, users can take a screenshot of an influencer's picture and LIKEtoKNOW.it delivers the ready-to-shop product details via the app.\n\nFashion brands use the reach and positive reputation of influencers by implementing influencer marketing. Influencers spread brand messages, increase brand awareness, contribute to a positive brand image and increase sales by tagging fashion brands in their posts.\n\nAlthough data that shows the direct correlation between influencer campaigns and sales are rare, the success of affiliate platforms as rewardStyle and successful examples such as the #mangogirls campaign, indicate that influencer engagement affects sales. In the #mangogirls campaign several influencers had independently chosen the same coat as their favorite piece of the Mango collection and showcased it on Instagram. The coat went viral and sold-out. In fact, first studies show that every third consumer has already bought a product following the recommendation of an influencer.\n\nFashion influencers have been criticized by journalists for their lack of transparency on sponsored posts. The lines between posts in which influencers share product recommendations for free or because they are paid for it are often blurred. Influencers are supposed to mark a sponsored post with hashtags such as #ad or #sponsored, but often use less-obvious hashtags like #sp or non at all.\n\nDue to this lack of transparency, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) sent out dozens of warning letters to Instagram influencers in the beginning of 2017, giving further indications to influencers and marketers on how to disclose advertising and sponsored posts. Following the rules of the FTC, hashtags like #ad have to appear before the \"more\" button and are not allowed to be buried in a flood of other hashtags. Thus, \"anyone endorsing a brand must \"clearly and conspicuously\" declare connections to it, for example if products have been given free, if a payment has been made for the endorsement or if there is a business or family relationship\".\n\nin June 2017, Instagram launched a new disclosure system with which users can tag sponsors in a post. If the brand confirms the commercial relation, the post is marked with a \"paid partnership\" tag at the top\n\n"}
{"id": "8495339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8495339", "title": "Female perversion", "text": "Female perversion\n\nFemale perversion is a term coined by Estela V. Welldon in 1992 to refer to women who commit violence, either against themselves or against others.\n\nThough the term can be used pejoratively and sometimes has sexual connotations, its strict definition is an instance of human behavior that deviates from what is considered orthodox or normal, and it is in this sense that the term is used by psychologists. The term is also controversial as according to Welldon there is a prevailing denial of the existence of female violence, throughout the legal and mental health community.\n\nWelldon (1992) put forward a model of female perversion that introduced the term into the psychological nomenclature. The model covers several categories of violent behavior that can be directed at one's own body, against children, or against adults.\n\nFreudian psychoanalytic theory suggested that perversion fell solely within the male domain, that it was related to the phallus, and that aggressive drive was unique to men. In her book \"Madonna, Whore: The Idealisation and Denigration of Motherhood\", Welldon challenges this notion, and argues that women are equally capable of perversion. Though they do not use the penis with violence, they instead use the whole body.\n\"In doing so, they attack the whole body, and sometimes by extension the bodies of children. They are symbolically wreaking revenge on their own internalised, often cruel and perverse mother. They identify their own body with the body of the mother. Likewise when they attack their children, they express violence towards a narcissistic extension of themselves\" (Motz, 2001)\nThe major forms it can manifest itself are \n\nWelldon argues that it can be seen as a form of sexualised aggression, and challenges the Freudian view that violence is a uniquely male phallic expression.\nThe reproductive functions and organs are used by both sexes to express perversion. Perverse men use their penises to attack and show hatred towards symbolic sources of humiliation... If perversion in the man is focused through his penis, in the woman it will similarly expressed through her reproductive organs and the maternal representations of motherhood\n\n(Welldon 1991) \nAnna Motz, in her book \"The psychology of female violence\" suggests that the expression of this anger on the body or that of another is a communicative act, clearly sending a message of internal pain or of psychosis (Motz, 2001). She calls the message \"the language of the body\", and that the symbolic use of violence against the body can be likened to psychosomatic illness.\n\nViolence against the self can take several forms, including deprivation and starvation as is the case in anorexia nervosa and bulimia, self-injury or suicide attempts, or other forms of self-harm.\n\nViolence against children often goes unreported, and is largely hidden from view. It can take the form of direct physical or sexual assault, Munchausen Syndrome by Proxy, or infanticide. Often the capacity of women to commit violence against children is denied, in the refusal to 'think the unthinkable'.\n\nViolence against others can take many forms, from domestic assault, physical assault, and when it escalates in the form of homicide and/or infanticide.\n\n"}
{"id": "23569746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23569746", "title": "Function tree", "text": "Function tree\n\nIn the theory of complex systems, a function tree is a diagram showing the dependencies between the functions of a system. It breaks a problem (or its solution) down into simpler parts.\n\nWhen used in computer programming, a function tree visualizes which function calls another.\n"}
{"id": "1739962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739962", "title": "ICBM address", "text": "ICBM address\n\nICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) address or missile address is hacker slang for one's longitude and latitude (preferably to seconds-of-arc accuracy) when placed in a signature or another publicly available file.\n\nThe form that used to register a site with the Usenet mapping project, before Internet connectivity became commonplace for Usenet sites, included a field for longitude and latitude, preferably to seconds-of-arc accuracy. This was actually used for generating geographically-correct maps of Usenet links on a plotter; however, it became traditional to refer to this as one's ICBM address or missile address, and some people include it in their sig block with that name (but a real missile address would include target elevation).\n\nA typical tag might read \"ICBM Address: 36.8274040 N, 108.0204086 W\".\n\nToday, using the ICBM method of coordinates is one method of geotagging webpages or other online material. Some projects parse ICBM address included in webpages via meta tags, which can then be used to map out sites added to its database.\n\nWeb page uses of <meta name=\"ICBM\" content=\"12.345, 67.890\"> specify the same location as a geo:12.345,67.890 URI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20469560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20469560", "title": "Incontinence (philosophy)", "text": "Incontinence (philosophy)\n\nIncontinence (\"a want of continence or self-restraint\") is often used by philosophers to translate the Greek term Akrasia (ἀκρασία). Used to refer to a lacking in moderation or self-control, especially related to sexual desire, incontinence may also be called wantonness.\n\nAristotle devoted book VII of the Nicomachean Ethics to the discussion of continence and incontinence, having previously linked the latter both to prodigality in its effects, and to those dominated by irrational feeling in its failure to obey knowledge of the good: a case of knowing virtue, but not having habituated it to control passion. \n\nAristotle considered one could be incontinent with respect to money or temper or glory, but that its core relation was to bodily enjoyment. Its causes could be weakness of will, or an impetuous refusal to think. At the same time, he did not consider it a vice, because it is not so much a product of moral choice, but instead, a failure to act on one's better knowledge.\n\nFor Augustine, incontinence was not so much a problem of knowledge (knowing but not acting) but of the will: he considered it a matter of everyday experience that men incontinently choose lesser over greater goods.\n\nIn the structural division of Dante's \"Inferno\", incontinence is the sin punished in the second through fifth circles. The mutual incontinence of lust was for Dante the lightest of the deadly sins, even if its lack of self-control would open the road to deeper layers of Hell.\n\nAkrasia appeared later as a character in Spenser's The Faerie Queene, representing the incontinence of lust, followed in the next canto by a study of that of anger; and as late as Jane Austen the sensibility of such figures as Marianne Dashwood would be treated as a form of (spiritual) incontinence.\n\nWith the triumph of Romanticism, however, the incontinent choice of feeling over reason became increasingly valorised in Western culture. Blake wrote that \"those who restrain desire, do so because theirs is weak enough to be restrained\". Encouraged by Rousseau, there was a rise of what Arnold J. Toynbee would describe as \"an \"abandon\" (ακρατεια)...a state of mind in which antinomianism is accepted – consciously or unconsciously, in theory or in practice – as a substitute for creativeness\".\n\nA peak of such acrasia was perhaps reached in the 1960s cult of letting it all hang out – of breakdown, acting out and emotional self-indulgence and drama. Partly in reaction, the proponents of emotional intelligence would look back to Aristotle in the search for impulse control and delayed gratification – to his dictum that \"a person is called continent or incontinent according as his reason is or is not in control\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53825654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53825654", "title": "Jeremy Lent", "text": "Jeremy Lent\n\nJeremy Lent (born 1960) is an author whose writings investigate the patterns of thought that have led civilization to its current crisis of sustainability. He is the founder of the non-profit Liology Institute, which is dedicated to a worldview that could enable humanity to thrive sustainably. He is the author of \"The Patterning Instinct\" and \"Requiem of the Human Soul\". Earlier in his career, Lent was the founder, chairman and CEO of the internet company NextCard.\n\nLent was born and raised in London. He graduated from the University College School and earned an undergraduate degree in English Literature at Emmanuel College, Cambridge University in 1981. Lent left the UK to live in the United States. In 1986, he earned an MBA from the University of Chicago. He is married and currently lives in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nIn addition to his writing, Lent is a practitioner of meditation, Qigong, and Tai Chi. He is a Level II certified teacher of Radiant Heart Qigong.\n\nLent joined Strategic Planning Associates, a strategy consulting company based in Washington, D.C. In 1989, he joined First Deposit Corporation (later renamed Providian), a direct mail credit card company in San Francisco. Lent was named Chief Financial Officer of Providian in 1991 and left the company in 1994.\n\nIn 1996, Lent founded NextCard, an internet financial services company. NextCard was the first company to enable consumers to apply for a credit card over the internet and be approved in real time and the first company to offer consumers the ability to design their own card by uploading a personalized image during the application process.\n\nAs chairman and CEO, Lent took NextCard public in 1999 and led a secondary offering in 2000. However, due to his first wife’s illness, Lent stepped down as CEO later in 2000, to care for her. After Lent’s departure, NextCard suffered serious setbacks. It was announced in late 2001, that the company was undercapitalized, and it was taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in 2002. Along with the other board members, Lent was involved for several years in shareholder lawsuits and investigations by the FDIC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These were eventually settled, and in 2005 the SEC dismissed fraud charges that it had levied against Lent.\n\n\"The Patterning Instinct: A Cultural History of Humanity’s Search for Meaning\" (Prometheus Books, May 2017) is a cognitive history of humanity, tracing how different cultures patterned meaning into the universe and how that has affected history. The result of ten years of research, the book offers a thesis that “culture shapes values and those values shape history.”\n\nThis approach is in contrast to the predominant geographic determinist approach to history, exemplified by historians such as Jared Diamond, Ian Morris and Kenneth Pomeranz. Lent argues that “The cognitive frames through which different cultures perceive reality have had a profound effect on their historical direction. The worldview of a given civilization—the implicit beliefs and values that create a pattern of meaning in people’s lives—has, in my opinion, been a significant driver of the historical path each civilization has taken.”\n\nThe book conducts what Lent calls an “archaeological exploration of the mind,” using findings from cognitive science and systems theory to reveal the implicit layers of values that form cultural norms. In a departure from the mainstream science-religion debate, \"The Patterning Instinct\" shows how medieval Christian rationalism acted as an incubator for scientific thought, which in turn, shaped the modern vision of the “conquest of nature.” Evaluating the sustainability crisis, Lent argues that it is culturally driven: a product of particular patterns that could be reshaped.\n\nThe book concludes by exploring scenarios for humanity’s future, foreseeing a coming struggle between two contrasting views: one driving to a technological world of artificially enhanced humans, the other enabling a sustainable future arising from intrinsic connectedness among people and to the natural world.\n\n\"The Patterning Instinct\" contains a foreword by Fritjof Capra. Prior to publication, the book received favorable endorsements from notables such as Paul Ehrlich, Thom Hartmann, Rick Hanson, J. R. McNeill, and Jonathon Porritt. Guardian journalist, George Monbiot, has called it \"the most profound and far-reaching book I have ever read.\" The book received a Silver Award from Nautilus Book Awards in April, 2018 in the Social Sciences & Education category.\n\nBeginning around 2005, Lent began an inquiry into the various constructions of meaning formed by cultures around the world and throughout history. The first expression of this investigation was his science fiction novel, \"Requiem of the Human Soul\" (Libros Libertad, 2009)..\n\nThe novel is set in the late 22nd century when most people are genetically enhanced. The minority that remains genetically unadulterated, known as Primals, consists mostly of the impoverished global underclass. The UN is holding a hearing in New York to consider whether to make the Primals extinct. The novel is written from the viewpoint of a Primal, Eusebio, who has been picked to represent his race in a last-ditch legal effort to save the Primals from extinction.\n\nThe novel raises questions about spirituality, history and global politics: Can the human race enhance itself to a higher plane? At what cost and benefit? If some “essence” of humanity was lost as a result, would that be so bad, given our sordid and shameful history? On the other hand, is there something special—a human soul—worth keeping at any price? Ultimately, the novel invites the reader to grapple with a fundamental question: what does it mean to be human?\n\nLent founded the nonprofit Liology Institute in 2012, with the aim of fostering a worldview that could enable humanity to thrive sustainably. The institute, according to its website, “is dedicated to fostering a worldview in which the human discovery and experience of meaning in our lives is compatible with the findings of scientific investigation, offering a deeply integrated and coherent understanding of humanity’s place in our cosmos which could enable us to thrive on our planet harmoniously and sustainably.”\n\nLent coined the term \"liology\" from the Chinese word \"li,\" meaning organizing principles of the universe, and “ology” of Greek etymology meaning “the study of.” The institute is intended to integrate traditional East Asian practices with the findings of modern systems science.\n\nIts stated objectives are to:\nIn 2014, the institute began an annual series of workshops, exploring how the values and insights of Liology apply to people’s everyday lives.\n\nLent asserts that humanity is entering a period of transformation, of a scale that has occurred twice before in history: the Agricultural Revolution twelve thousand years ago, and the Scientific and Industrial Revolutions several hundred years ago. The trajectories he consider include a collapse of civilization, a posthuman techno society and sustainable human flourishing (a \"Great Transformation\").\n\nLent claims that, to secure the latter humanity needs a new suite of values based on a sense of intrinsic connectedness. These values emphasize:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323186", "title": "Kenshō", "text": "Kenshō\n\nKenshō (見性) is a Japanese term from the Zen tradition. \"Ken\" means \"seeing,\" \"shō\" means \"nature, essence\". It is usually translated as \"seeing one's (true) nature,\" that is, the Buddha-nature.\n\nKenshō is an \"initial\" insight or awakening, not full Buddhahood. It is to be followed by further training to deepen this insight, and learn to express it in daily life.\n\nThe term kenshō is often used interchangeably with satori, which is derived from the verb satoru, and means \"comprehension; understanding\".\n\nThe Chinese Buddhist term \"jianxing\" () compounds:\n\nBuddhist monks who produced Sanskrit-Chinese translations of sutras faced many linguistic difficulties:\nThus, \"jianxing\" was the translation for \"dṛṣṭi-svabhāva\", \"view one's essential nature\".\n\nThe (c. 8th century) Chinese \"Platform Sutra\" (2, Prajñā \"wisdom, understanding\") first records \"jianxing\".\n\nThe Standard Chinese pronunciation \"jianxing\" historically derives from (c. 7th century CE) Middle Chinese \"kiensjäŋ\". Sino-Xenic pronunciations of this term exist:\n\nTranslating \"kenshō\" into English is semantically complex.\n\nSome encyclopedia and dictionary definitions are:\n\nBuddhist scholars have defined \"kenshō\" as:\n\nBuddhist teachers and practitioners have defined \"kenshō\" as:\n\nThe term \"kenshō\" refers to the realization of non-duality of subject and object in general, but the term \"kenshō\" may also be applied in other contexts: \"How do you \"kenshō\" this?\"\n\n\"Kenshō\" is not a single experience, but refers to a whole series of realizations from a beginner's shallow glimpse of the nature of mind, up to a vision of emptiness equivalent to the 'Path of Seeing' or to Buddhahood itself. In all of these, the same 'thing' is known, but in different degrees of clarity and profundity.\n\n\"Kenshō\" is commonly translated as enlightenment, a word that is also used to translate bodhi, prajna, satori and buddhahood. Western discourse tends to use these terms interchangeably, but there is a distinction between a first insight, and the further development toward Buddhahood.\n\nKensho is insight, an understanding of reality as-it-is. Contemporary understanding also describes kensho as an \"experience\", as in \"enlightenment experience\"; the term \"enlightenment experience\" is itself a tautology: \"Kensho (enlightenment) is an enlightenment (kensho)-experience\".\n\nThe notion of \"experience\" fits in a popular set of dichotomies: pure (unmediated) versus mediated, noncognitive versus cognitive, experiential versus intellectual, intuitive versus intellectual, nonrational versus rational, nondiscursive versus discursive, nonpropositional versus propositional.\n\nThe notion of \"pure experience\" (\"junsui kuiken\") to interpret and understand kensho was introduced by Nishida Kitaro in his An Inquiry into the Good (1911), under influence of \"his somewhat idiosyncratic reading of western philosophy\", especially William James, who wrote The Varieties of Religious Experience. Wayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768-1834), who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique. It was adopted by many scholars of religion, of which William James was the most influential. D.T. Suzuki, who introduced Nishida Kitaro to western philosophy, took over this notion of \"pure experience\", describing it as the essence of all religions, but best represented in the superior Japanese culture and religion.\n\nThe influence of western psychology and philosophy on Japanese Buddhism was due to the persecution of Buddhism at the beginning of the Meiji Restoration, and the subsequent efforts to construct a New Buddhism (\"shin bukkyo\"), adapted to the modern times. It was this New Buddhism which has shaped the understanding of Zen in the west, especially through the writings of D.T. Suzuki and the Sanbo Kyodan, an exponent of the Meiji-era opening of Zen-training for lay-followers.\n\nThe notion of \"experience\" has been criticised. Robert Sharf points out that \"experience\" is a typical western term, which has found its way into Asian religiosity via western influences. The notion of \"experience\" introduces a false notion of duality between \"experiencer\" and \"experienced\", where-as the essence of kensho is the realisation of the \"non-duality\" of observer and observed. \"Pure experience\" does not exist; all experience is mediated by intellectual and cognitive activity. The specific teachings and practices of a specific tradition may even determine what \"experience\" someone has, which means that this \"experience\" is not the \"proof\" of the teaching, but a \"result\" of the teaching. A pure consciousness without concepts, reached by \"cleaning the doors of perception\", would be an overwhelming chaos of sensory input without coherence.\nThe notion of \"experience\" also over-emphasises kensho, as if it were the single goal of Zen-training, where-as the Zen-tradition clearly states that \"the stink of Zen\" has to be removed and the \"experience\" of kensho has to be integrated into daily life. In the Rinzai-school this post-satori training includes the study and mastering of great amounts of classical Chinese poetry, which is far from \"universal\" and culture-transcending. On the contrary, it demands an education in culture-specific language and behaviour, which is measured by specific and strict cultural norms. Emphasising \"experience\" \"reduces the sophisticated dialectic of Ch'an/Zen doctrine and praxis to a mere \"means\" or set of techniques intended to inculcate such experiences\".\n\nThe classical Zen-texts, such as the \"Kao-seng-chuan\" (Biographies of Eminent Monks) and the transmission lists, called \"Transmission of the Lamp\" the \"yü-lü\" genre (the recorded sayings of the masters, such as the Linji yü lü); and the various koan-collections, contain accounts of \"enlightenment experiences\". These accounts are not verbatim recordings of such \"experiences\", but well-edited texts, written down decades or even decennia after the supposed sayings and meetings.\n\n\"The Denkōroku\", \"The Record of the Transmission of the Light\", written by Keizan Jōkin 瑩山紹瑾 (1268–1325), is an example of the \"Transmission of the Lamp\" genre. It contains literary accounts of the patriarchs of the Soto-lineage, from Shakyamuni Buddha to Koun Ejō, in which kensho plays a central role. They are not to be taken as literal accounts of awakening, but as stories underpinning the legitimacy of the Dogen-shu, which in its early history had seen a fierce internal conflict over the correct lineage during the Sandai sōron.\n\nThe Denkoroku gives the following account of Dogen's awakening:\nAlthough the Zen tradition is reluctant to speak openly about the 'experience' of kensho, personal accounts can be found in Zen-texts.\n\nHakuin gives this description of his first kensho, when he was 21:\nHakuin's \"kensho\" was not approved by Shoju Rojin, who subjected Hakuin to more koan-training. This resulted in a second kensho, where-after Hakuin left Shoju Rojin. It was only when he was 41 that he attained \"his final great enlightenment\":\nKeido Fukushima, a 20th-century Rinzai abbott, gives the following description:\nOther accounts can be found throughout the Zen-literature.\n\nKenshō may be attained without the aid of a teacher. For example, Richard Clarke (1933), who studied with Philip Kapleau, states that he had a spontaneous kensho when he was 13. Dennis Genpo Merzel states he had what he described as an \"awakening experience\" in 1971:\nMore descriptions of \"spontaneous kensho\" can be found throughout the Zen-literature, while a classic example may be Ramana Maharshi's awakening.\n\nAccording to Harris, working towards kensho is usually a lengthy process stretched out over years or even decades. Contrary to this, Victor Hori notes that with koan-study kensho may appear within six months.\nSōtō tends towards a gradual approach, preferring to let the experiences happen on their own. Rinzai tends toward the use of Koans as a technique to unroot the habitual workings of the mind.\n\nDuring intensive zazen various hallucinations and psychological disturbances may arise. These are referred to as makyo. Distinguishing these delusions from actual kensho is the primary function of the teacher, as the student may be erroneously convinced they have realized kensho.\n\nIn the Rinzai school, kensho is seen as indispensable:\nIn the Rinzai-training, the student is expected to pour oneself totally into both koan-study and daily activities 'to become one' with it. Kenshō is used to describe the first breakthrough in kōan study.\n\nIn the Sōtō school there are two kinds of awakening. One is the practice of shikantaza, which is the \"actual enlightened activity of the Buddha\". The other is the accumulation of little bits of understanding, which come together, giving way to a deeper intuitive knowledge.\n\nThe \"genjo-koan\", or the \"koan of everyday life\" which \"appears naturally in daily life\", is emphasized. Students are not encouraged to actively seek out kenshō experiences. In Sōtō practice kenshōs \"are allowed to occur naturally, as a by-product of practice. Meditative training is seen as the unfolding of one great \"kenshō\":\nKenshō also plays a central in the Sanbō Kyōdan, a Japanese Zen organisation which played a decisive role in the transmission of Zen to the United States. Yasutani, the founder of the Sanbo Kyodan, was disappointed about the lack of interest in kensho in the Soto school. Yasutani's emphasis on koan training and the importance of kensho was transmitted to his American students:\nIt is also reflected in the inclusion of a relative great amount of kensho stories in \"The Three Pillars of Zen\", written by Philip Kapleau, a student of Yasutani.\n\nZen Buddhist training does not end with kenshō. Practice is to be continued to deepen the insight and to express it in daily life. According to the contemporary Chan Master Sheng Yen:\nAnd the contemporary western Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett:\nTo deepen the initial insight of kensho, shikantaza and kōan-study are necessary. This trajectory of initial insight followed by a gradual deepening and ripening is expressed by Linji Yixuan in his Three mysterious Gates, the Four Ways of Knowing of Hakuin, and the Ten Ox-Herding Pictures which detail the steps on the Path.\n\nPost-awakening practice is called \"seitai choyo\", the \"long nurturing of the sacred fetus\". According to Spiegelberg,\nDuring the T'ang-era, the term became associated with the ideal of the recluse who leaves the world. An ideal period of \"twenty years\" was taken for it, echoing a story from the \"Lotus Sutra\" about a prodigal son who wandered in poverty for twenty years before returning home. References to these twenty years are found throughout the Chán-tradition, for example Linji, who is reported to have studied under Huang-po for twenty years, and Daito, the founder of Daitoku-ji, who famoulsy spent twenty years living under a bridge with beggars.\n\nAccording to Hakuin, the main aim of \"post-satori practice\" (\"gogo no shugyo\" or \"kojo\", \"going beyond\") is to cultivate the \"Mind of Enlightenment\", \"benefiting others by giving them the gift of the Dharma teaching\". According to Yamada Koun, \"if you cannot weep with a person who is crying, there is no kensho\". And according to Barry \nOne also has to purify oneself by ongoing practice, since \nAnd \"experience\" has to be supplemented by intellectual understanding and study of the Buddhist teachings; otherwise one remains a \"zen temma\", a \"Zen devil\". Finally, these efforts are to result in a natural, effortless, down-to-earth state of being, the \"ultimate liberation\", \"knowing without any kind of defilement\".\n\nKenshō is described as appearing suddenly, upon an interaction with someone else, at hearing or reading some significant phrase, or at the perceiving of an unexpected sound or sight. The idea of \"sudden insight\" has been hotly debated in the history of Zen. It became part of the Traditional Zen Narrative in the 8th century.\n\nChinul, a 12th-century Korean Seon master, emphasized that insight into our true nature is sudden, but is to be followed by practice to ripen the insight and attain full Buddhahood. The contemporary Korean Seon master Seongcheol opposed this, emphasizing \"sudden enlightenment, sudden cultivation\". But Jiyu-Kennett, a contemporary western teacher, warns that attaining kenshō does not mean that a person is free from morality, the laws of karma, or the consequences of ones actions. This warning is reflected in the Wild fox koan.\n\nKenshō may be attained without the aid of a teacher, as in the case of mushi-dokugo or (mushi-)dokkaku, a self-awakened pratyeka-buddha.\n\nThough the literal meaning is self-awakened, or awakened on one's own, the emphasis in Zen, when using these terms, lies in the ultimate reliance on one's own insight, instead of the authority of a teacher:\nWhile the Japanese term \"kenshō\" is generally used by practitioners of Zen Buddhism, the insight it refers to is not limited to Japanese Zen Buddhism, or even to Buddhism in general.\n\nThe Theravada tradition, which is best known in the west through the modern Vipassana movement, discerns four stages of enlightenment, in which Nirvana is being reached in four succeeding sudden steps of insight.\n\nThe Dzogchen-traditions states that the ultimate nature of all sentient beings is \"pure, all-encompassing, primordial awareness\", or \"naturally occurring timeless awareness\". This intrinsic awareness has no form of its own, and yet is capable of perceiving, experiencing, reflecting, or expressing all form. It does so without being affected by those forms in any ultimate, permanent way.\n\nThe analogy given by Dzogchen masters is that one's nature is like a mirror which reflects with complete openness, but is not affected by the reflections. Rigpa is the knowledge that ensues from recognizing this mirror-like clarity, which cannot be found by searching nor identified. One \"knows\" that there is a primordial freedom from grasping his or her mind.\n\nIn Advaita Vedanta moksha is attained by jnana, insight-knowledge. In Shankara's philosophical synthesis insight samadhi is used as a subsidiary to this goal. Swami Vivekananda emphasized the \"experience\" of nirvikalpa samadhi as a means to validate religious, transcendental knowledge.\n\n\nRinzai\nSoto\nSanbo Kyodan\nCritical\n\n"}
{"id": "31565895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31565895", "title": "Knockout game", "text": "Knockout game\n\n\"Knockout game\" is one of the names given in the United States by news media and others to assaults in which one person (with others acting as accomplices or lookouts) attempt to \"knock out\", with a single sucker punch, an unsuspecting victim. The assaults have similarities to the happy slapping trend seen in Europe, in which camera phones are used to record assaults. Other names given to assaults of this type include \"knockout\", \"knockout king\", \"point 'em out, knock 'em out\", and \"polar-bearing\" or \"polar-bear hunting\" (allegedly called such when the victim is white and the assailants are not).\n\nSerious injuries and even deaths have been attributed to the knockout game. Some news sources report that there was an escalation of such attacks in late 2013, and, in some cases, the attacker was charged with a hate crime. Other media analysts, such as Slate, have cast doubt on the reportedly widespread nature of the game and have labeled the trend, although not the attacks themselves, a myth.\n\nIn September 1992, Norwegian exchange student Yngve Raustein was killed by three teenagers who—according to Cambridge, Massachusetts, prosecutors—were playing a game called \"knockout.\" Local teens said that the object is to render an unsuspecting target unconscious with a single punch, and, if the assailant does not succeed, his companions will turn on him instead.\n\nIn 2005 in the United Kingdom, BBC News reported on the happy slapping incidents, in which the attacks were filmed for the purpose of posting online. The French government responded to this trend by making it illegal to film any acts of violence and post them online, with a spokesperson for then President Nicolas Sarkozy saying that the law was indeed directed at \"happy slapping.\"\n\nThree teens were arrested in Decatur, Illinois, in September 2009, and charged in the killing of a bicyclist, 61, who was stomped to death, and the attempted murder of another man, 46, who was also attacked and stomped. It was claimed that the teens were playing \"point 'em out, knock 'em out,\" where a person is selected and a group of attackers attempts to render the victim unconscious.\n\nIn June 2009, a 29-year-old man was beaten in a Columbia, Missouri, parking garage by a group of teens who told police that they were playing a game called \"knockout king,\" where they would find an unsuspecting person and attempt to knock him out with a single punch.\n\nIn April 2011, Hoang Nguyen, 72, died in St. Louis, Missouri, after he was attacked in what was described by a local CBS station as \"part of the so-called knockout game\". Nguyen's wife, Yen, 62, was injured. After the trial, the assailant, Elex Murphy, a teenager who was 18 at the time of the assault, was sentenced to life in prison plus 25 years.\n\nIn July 2012, 62-year-old Delfino Mora was attacked by three teens and killed in West Rogers Park, Chicago. Anthony Malcolm, who recorded the attack on his cell phone and publicized it, was sentenced to 30 years in prison. Two other teens were awaiting trial in September 2013. The attack was said to be part of a game called \"pick 'em out, knock 'em out.\"\n\nIn 2013, a series of these attacks resulted in the deaths of the victims, all with some sort of game as a precipitating factor. Michael Daniels, 51, of Syracuse, New York died a day after being attacked in May 2013, with the \"knockout game\" later mentioned in regard to his death.\n\nRalph Santiago, a disabled homeless resident of Hoboken, New Jersey, was found dead after being attacked by three boys whose assault was linked to the \"knockout\" game.\n\n\"Yale Daily News\" reported seven attacks during November 2013 in New Haven, Connecticut that could be associated with the knockout game. Yale University's chief of police wrote an email to the campus community pertaining to the issue on November 21.\n\nIn the United States, \"The New York Times\" noted \"a growing log of reports of such crimes in the Northeast and beyond\". A number of news stories in late November 2013 covered incidents in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where a series of attacks took place during October and November of that year. As a result, the NYPD responded by stepping up patrols in certain neighborhoods.\n\nOn November 24, 2013, in Katy, Texas, an 81-year-old African-American man was attacked and hospitalized. Two weeks later, Conrad Alvin Barrett, 29, was arrested after allegedly showing an off-duty police officer a video he recorded with his cell phone of himself perpetrating the attack and explicitly referencing \"knockout\". Investigators revealed that there were other videos on his phone in which he used racial epithets and another in which he wondered if he would receive media attention if he were to commit a \"knockout game\" attack on a black man. This was one of the first cases in which the victim was African-American. Previous instances in the US primarily involved white or Asian victims and African-American assailants. The Justice Department subsequently charged Barrett with a hate crime, the only time the DOJ involved itself in prosecuting these attacks. Barrett's attorney claimed his client suffers from bipolar disorder and was not on medication at the time of the attack. In October 2015, Barrett was sentenced to 71 months (5 years and 11 months) in federal incarceration. He still faces charges in state court.\n\nOn July 27, 2016 in Milan, Italian police arrested a young Spaniard on vacation in Italy, after he made repeated assaults on passersby, similar to this \"game\". On that same date, in Greenville, South Carolina a man was attacked while playing \"Pokemon GO\".\n\nIn December 2015 a man in New York was reported assaulted by a non-black teen playing the \"knockout game\". The perpetrator turned himself in two months later.\n\nOn August 29, 2016 a 30-year-old Guatemalan, Mardoquo Sincal Jochola, was fatally assaulted in Philadelphia and is alleged to have been a victim of the \"knockout game\".\n\nOn July 31, 2017, an unidentified man was caught on camera while knocking out a 24-year-old woman, Yana Rozanova, in Pervomaisk, Mykolaiv Oblast, Ukraine.\n\nSeveral attacks on Jewish victims in Brooklyn in 2013 have been called antisemitic hate crimes. \"ABC Nightline\" reported that New York City police believed that antisemitism was likely to be a motive in the attacks, as all eight victims were identified as Jewish.\n\nJewish community leaders in Brooklyn have spoken out on the subject, and the Anti-Defamation League regional office issued a public statement on knockout attacks \"targeting Jewish individuals in Brooklyn\". Amrit Marajh, a 28-year-old suspect in an attack that took place in Brooklyn, was charged with a hate crime as his victim was Jewish. Marajh has claimed innocence and denied the claims of antisemitism.\n\nOn December 3, newly elected African-American Democratic New York City councilwoman Laurie Cumbo added a letter to her Facebook page saying: \"The accomplishments of the Jewish community triggers feelings of resentment, and a sense that Jewish success is not also their success.\" The Anti-Defamation League said her post was \"troubling\" and that it evoked \"classic anti-Semitic stereotypes.\" Cumbo later issued an apology for the remarks. Cumbo added that the lives of victims and suspects will never be the same and that attackers would be \"prosecuted to the full extent of the law\". NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly later stated that he was avoiding referring to the attacks as part of any sort of trend to avoid further copycat attacks and has instead been labeling them as hate crimes.\n\nOn November 21, 2013 Republican New York State assemblyman Jim Tedisco put forward legislation called the \"Knockout Assault Deterrent Act\" to charge juvenile offenders in these type of attacks as adults, and would also punish those who were found recording the attacks. New York State Senator Hugh Farley (also a Republican) supports legislation that would make assailants linked to the knockout game liable to harsher sentences, would try juvenile offenders as adults, and would make accomplices criminally responsible. Democratic assemblyman John McDonald, while admitting stiffer penalties were warranted claimed Tedisco's bill was unnecessary.\n\nIn Wisconsin, Republican State Assemblyman Dean Kaufert said he was considering drafting a bill to deter attacks.\n\nAfter incidents during late 2013 in Brooklyn in which Jews were victims of knockout attacks, Jewish leaders, councilmembers, and organization representatives spoke against the attacks.\n\nLeaders from the African-American community also made statements. New York City councilman Charles Barron stated that the root of the problem was a need for jobs to keep young people out of trouble; he also suggested additional funding for community patrols to act as lookouts. Representative Hakeem Jeffries said at a Crown Heights Youth Collective conference that attacks based on race will not be tolerated and that the collective will do everything in its power to see that justice is done. Brooklyn's then-District Attorney-elect Kenneth P. Thompson called out the attacks, saying that \"there is no status to be gained\" for knocking out an unsuspecting victim and that such violence will not be tolerated. Brooklyn Borough President-elect Eric Adams affirmed Thompson's statement, saying that, if you \"play this game, ... you will lose\".\n\nOther notable New York City community members who have spoken against the attacks include Reverend Al Sharpton and Dov Hikind. Al Sharpton, Russell Simmons, Foundation for Ethnic Understanding founder Rabbi Marc Schneier, former NYC mayor David Dinkins and former New Orleans mayor and current National Urban League president Marc Morial released a video in December 2013 saying \"No to K.O.\" Retired Brooklyn-born boxer Mike Tyson has also spoken against the attacks on \"The Piers Morgan Show\".\n\nThe existence of a growing trend of knockout attacks has been questioned; claims about the prevalence of the phenomenon have been called an \"urban myth\" and a \"type of panic\" by some political analysts.\n\nA June 2011 investigative report by John Tucker of the \"Riverfront Times\" following the death of Hoang Nguyen in 2011 saw many related attacks, all attributed to the \"Knockout King\" game. St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department Chief Daniel Isom stated that a year prior the police determined that the knockout game was played by a group of children who went around trying to knock random people unconscious. The police estimated the activity was not widespread and limited to five or nine teens. In Tucker's interviews with local teens, they believed the number to be much higher; one 18-year-old estimated 10-15% of his peers played the game. A St. Louis area barber said that in his youth the phenomenon was not called \"Knockout King\" but \"One Hitter Quitter\". Mike Males of the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice claimed that the media has been cherry-picking related attacks for sensationalism, asserting that \"This knockout-game legend is a fake trend.\" Police at the time believed such attacks might have been under-reported by immigrant victims in communities where relations with law enforcement had been tense.\n\nAn attack from 2012 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania was tentatively linked to more recent attacks, although it was never identified as part of any \"game\". Police in Syracuse, New York, reported that one assailant in a fatal attack admitted to its being \"knockout\", with a police sergeant noting that the assaults he was investigating were definitely \"for a game\" rather than being attempted murders or robberies. \n\nOn November 23, 2013, \"The New York Times\" reported that police officials in New York City were considering their position on the \"game\" and were wondering if they should advise the public, but had to contend with the uncertain existence of the game. Police in New York City questioned whether they were faced with a trend or a series of isolated incidents. Then-New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly refused to refer to the attacks in Brooklyn as the \"knockout game\" to avoid possible copycat attacks.\n\nSeveral assaults associated with the knockout game do not follow any particular pattern; in several instances, a single assailant attempted a one-punch attack while in others multiple assailants participated in a gang attack. The \"Knockout King\" death of Nguyen in St. Louis was such a gang attack. A purported trend was identified in Lansing, Michigan called \"point 'em out, knock 'em out\" involved the use of a Taser.\n\nMany officials have outright refused to refer to the assaults as a \"game\", with Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter explicitly stating he did not want to give the idea any credibility while at a press conference after an attack at a Philadelphia pizzeria where the suspects never mentioned the game. In a CNN interview with Don Lemon, Nutter stated he was not sure if the knockout game is real or not, adding he less concerned about the name but saying the incidents are of \"great concern\" and could spark copycat behavior. Nutter would not answer if the attacks were racially motivated and stated that Philadelphia has no confirmed \"game\" incidents. Earlier, Philadelphia Police spokeswoman Tanya Little determined a November 11 attack as part of a knockout game.\n\nJamelle Bouie of \"The Daily Beast\" was critical of the game's existence as a trend, comparing its existence to the \"wilding\" assault allegedly at hand in the Central Park jogger case and the often reported headlight flashing urban legend. While he did not deny that several people were attacked and one had died, he pointed out that the attacks were not really rare, noting the FBI had reported 127,577 unarmed assaults in 2012.\n\nWhen Singal approached several local news stations, a representative from an NBC affiliate responded saying that the footage had been taken from a shared pool of stock footage that other NBC stations in the area were given, and generally, if the footage is found to be inaccurate there would be a digital note concerning it. The note was absent in the case of the London video for reasons unknown. Singal's investigation led him to believe that people around the country are being told a story that has not been properly researched.\n\nChris Hayes, host of MSNBC's \"All In with Chris Hayes\", gave the knockout game his first annual \"Over-Covered Stories of the Year\" award, due to what he perceived as excessive coverage by Fox News.\n\nRobin Abcarian for the \"Los Angeles Times\" criticized this reporting style by a conservative analyst, saying that blame was shifted onto the federal government. Abcarian noted that Barrett explicitly stated he was seeking a black victim, and postulated that he may have been acting on this \"lazy narrative that black teens were randomly attacking white people\". She criticized the statement by Rev. Sharpton and the conservative news sources who began supporting him after decades of opposition.\n\nTommy Christopher, writing for Mediaite, claimed James Rosen's report for Fox News on the attack was misleading, noting claims made by Rosen that it is the first such attack to be charged as a hate crime, when it was the first under federal statute. Christopher cited the arrest of Amrit Marajh in Brooklyn and the investigation of the alleged assault on Taj Patterson, a gay black man who claimed he was attacked by a group of Orthodox Jewish men, as proof of this.\n\nAbcarian criticized the reporting of this attack as possibly being related to the knockout game trend, as the alleged attackers sought out Patterson because he was gay rather than because he is black. She also brought up a case of a fabrication of a \"knockout\"-style attack, after the victim and her boyfriend revealed she had lied that she was attacked at random by a stranger and instead he had struck her, noting that the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" did not report the initial attack as a \"knockout game\" attack. Abcarian claimed that the 2011 attack by Dajour Washington on James Addlesburger was being used for sensationalism. The video of the assault was shown by Bill O'Reilly, which Addlesburger felt was being exploited and manipulated to fan racial hatred. Washington, who spent nine months in juvenile detention for the attack, appeared on \"Nightline\" in 2013 and claimed he had not attacked Addlesburger because he was white but rather because he was the only man present. Washington also claimed that at the time of the attack he had never heard of the \"knockout game\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53283355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53283355", "title": "Linda E. Carlson", "text": "Linda E. Carlson\n\nLinda E. Carlson (\"Dr. Linda Ellen Carlson, Ph.D., C.Psych.\"; born 10 August 1969) is a Canadian professor, published author with the American Psychological Association (APA) & TEDxCanmore (TED) public speaker.\n\nHer researches and works are all based around the survivors (and current patients) suffering from cancer, with issues varying from computerized online screening for distress to survivorship issues. Much of her attention is also towards the implementation and evaluation of Integrative Oncology interventions, including mindfulness-based programs \"viz.\" yoga, meditation, reiki, acupuncture, smoking cessation and other natural health products.\n\nShe also studies the effects of psychosocial interventions on psychoneuroimmunological biomarkers in cancer patients and has published over 240 research papers and books.\n\nCarlson studied Psychology and attended the University of Calgary from 1987, where she received her Bachelor's degree in October 1991 and after a year, moved on to the McGill University (Montreal, Quebec, Canada) and completed her dissertation in Clinical Psychology with a speciality in Psychoneuroendocrinology, post which she received a Ph.D in October 1998.\n\nShe is also a Health Scholar at the Alberta Innovates-Health Solutions and by the year 2000, she completed the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Professional Training, Level One Training from Canadian Society of Clinical Hypnosis and received the C.Psych. (in June; #2557) from the College of Alberta Psychologists.\n\nIn 2001, she also completed the Structural Equation Modeling from the SSHRC Data Training School.\n\nImmediately after Linda's doctoral degree (1998), she was appointed as the Director of Research in the Department of Psychosocial Resources where she worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary which was sponsored by a Terry Fox Postdoctoral Research Fellowship from the Canadian Cancer Society.\n\nSoon after that in 2001, she secured a post of Professor in the Division of Psychosocial Oncology, Department of Oncology & Cumming School of Medicine and is also an Adjunct Professor with the Department of Psychology, Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Calgary ever since.\n\nCurrently, she also holds a second-term with the Enbridge Research Chair in Psychosocial Oncology (Canada).\n\nMost of the notable research papers and books could be found on ResearchGate, Google Scholar & PubMed, few of the recent ones are listed below -\nA list as seen on Goodreads refers to the ones listed below -\nDetailed information of all publication by year (chronological) could be found here.\n\nWhile pursuing her education, Linda graduated with First Class Honours during her Bachelor's at Calgary and also made the Dean’s Honour List during her doctoral degree and during her academic career, was awarded the New Investigator Award from 2002-2007 from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.\n\n"}
{"id": "398810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398810", "title": "List of graphical methods", "text": "List of graphical methods\n\nThis is a list of graphical methods with a mathematical basis.\nIncluded are diagram techniques, chart techniques, plot techniques, and other forms of visualization.\n\nThere is also a list of computer graphics and descriptive geometry topics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4141703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4141703", "title": "Market abuse", "text": "Market abuse\n\nMarket abuse may arise in circumstances where financial market investors have been unreasonably disadvantaged, directly or indirectly, by others who:\n\nMarket Abuse is split into two different aspects (under EU definitions):\n\nIn 2013/2014, the EU updated its legislation on market abuse, and harmonised criminal sanctions. In the Danish European Union opt-out referendum, 2015, the Danish population rejected adoption of the 2014 market abuse directive (2014/57/EU) and much other legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "55551931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55551931", "title": "Me Too movement", "text": "Me Too movement\n\nThe Me Too movement (or #MeToo movement), with many local and international alternative names, is a movement against sexual harassment and sexual assault. #MeToo spread virally in October 2017 as a hashtag on social media in an attempt to demonstrate the widespread prevalence of sexual assault and harassment, especially in the workplace. It followed soon after the sexual abuse allegations against Harvey Weinstein. Tarana Burke, an American social activist and community organizer, began using the phrase \"Me Too\" as early as 2006, and the phrase was later popularized by American actress Alyssa Milano, on Twitter in 2017. Milano and Michael Baker encouraged victims of sexual harassment to tweet about it and \"give people a sense of the magnitude of the problem\". This was met with success that included but was not limited to high-profile posts from several American celebrities, including Gwyneth Paltrow, Ashley Judd, Jennifer Lawrence, and Uma Thurman.\n\nSeveral hashtags about sharing stories of workforce sexual harassment were in use before #MeToo, including #MyHarveyWeinstein, #YouOkSis, #WhatWereYouWearing and #SurvivorPrivilege.\n\nTarana Burke, a social activist and community organizer, began using the phrase \"Me Too\" in 2006, on the Myspace social network as part of a campaign to promote \"empowerment through empathy\" among women of color who have experienced sexual abuse, particularly within underprivileged communities. Burke, who is creating a documentary titled \"Me Too\", has said she was inspired to use the phrase after being unable to respond to a 13-year-old girl who confided to her that she had been sexually assaulted. Burke later wished she had simply told the girl, \"me too\".\n\nOn October 15, 2017, actress Alyssa Milano encouraged spreading the hashtag #MeToo, to attempt to draw attention to sexual assault and harassment. Milano later acknowledged earlier use of the phrase by Burke.\n\nThe phrase \"Me too\" was tweeted by Milano around noon on October 15, 2017, and had been used more than 200,000 times by the end of the day, and tweeted more than 500,000 times by October 16. On Facebook, the hashtag was used by more than 4.7 million people in 12 million posts during the first 24 hours. The platform reported that 45% of users in the United States had a friend who had posted using the term.\n\nTens of thousands of people, including hundreds of celebrities, replied with #MeToo stories. Some men, such as actors Terry Crews and James Van Der Beek, have responded to the hashtag with their own experiences of harassment and abuse, while others have responded by acknowledging past behaviors against women, spawning the hashtag #HowIWillChange.\n\nIn addition to Hollywood, \"Me Too\" declarations elicited discussion of sexual harassment and abuse in the music industry, sciences, academia, and politics.\n\nFeminist author Gloria Feldt stated in \"Time\" that many employers are being forced to make changes in response to #MeToo, for example examining gender-based pay differences and improving sexual harassment policies. Others have noted there has been pressure on companies, specifically in the financial industry, to disclose diversity statistics.\n\nIn November 2017, the hashtag #ChurchToo was started by Emily Joy and Hannah Paasch on Twitter and began trending in response to #MeToo as a way to try to highlight and stop sexual abuse that happens in a church. In early January 2018, about a hundred evangelical women also launched #SilenceIsNotSpiritual to call for changes to how sexual misconduct is dealt within the church. #ChurchToo started spreading again virally later in January 2018 in response to a live-streamed video admission by Pastor Andy Savage to his church that he sexually assaulted a 17-year-old girl twenty years before as a youth pastor while driving her home, but then received applause by his church for admitting to the incident and asking for forgiveness. Pastor Andy Savage then resigned from his staff position at Highpoint Church and stepped away from ministry. Many have argued that one of the biggest crises in the history of the Catholic Church is the current child sexual abuse that is being reported, according to Tom Inglis in his book \"Are the Irish Different?\". \n\nThe University of California has been no stranger to sexual harassment, with substantial accusations reported yearly in the hundreds at all nine UC campuses, notably UC Berkeley, Davis, Irvine, Los Angeles, and San Diego. However, a landmark event at the University of California, Irvine spearheaded the removal and reprimanding of several campus officials and professors accused of sexual harassment and discrimination. In early July 2018, UC Irvine removed millionaire benefactor Francisco J. Ayala's name from its biology school, central science library, graduate fellowships, scholar programs, and endowed chairs after an internal investigation substantiated a number of sexual harassment claims. The results from the investigation were compiled in a 97-page report, which included testimony from victims enduing Ayala's harassment for 15 years. His removal promptly sparked the removal of Professor Ron Carlson in August 2018, who had led the creative writing program at UC Irvine. He resigned after substantiated reports of sexual misconduct with an underage student became unearthed. UC Irvine upon learning about the report accepted Professor Carlson’s immediate resignation. Additionally, four additional professors in the School of Biological Sciences at UC Irvine between June and August 2018 were put under sanctions or terminated for violating the UC Policy on Sexual Harassment including Thomas A. Parham, former vice chancellor at UC Irvine and former president of the Association of Black Psychologists.\n\nThere are still many places of education such as high schools, however, where legal intervention is not readily enforced for situations where sexual assault takes place. Pamela Y. Price in her book \"Directions in Sexual Harassment Law\" describes how “a major argument for why [laws against] sexual harassment won’t work in education is that issues of sexuality can’t be regulated (similar to the debate in employment) or that adolescent behavior is too unpredictable to be legally controlled” (Price 62). \n\nIt has been noted that, although the financial industry is known to have a wide prevalence of sexual harassment, as of January 2018, there were no high-profile financial executives stepping down as the result of #MeToo allegations. The first widely covered example of concrete consequences in finance was when two reporters, including Madison Marriage of the \"Financial Times\", went undercover at a men-only Presidents Club event meant to raise money for children. Because women were not allowed to attend except as \"hostesses\" in tight, short black dresses with black underwear, Financial Times reporter Madison Marriage and another reporter got jobs as hostesses and documented widespread sexual misconduct. As a result, The presidents Club was shut down.\n\nIn March 2018, Morgan Stanley broker Douglas E. Greenberg was put on administrative leave after a \"New York Times\" story outlined harassment allegations by four women, including multiple arrests for the violation of restraining orders, and a threat to burn down an ex-girlfriend's house. It has been called the #MeToo moment of Portland's financial service industry.\n\nIt has been noted in discussion of #MeToo in finance that only about a quarter of top positions are held by women at several major banks, and there is evidence there may be wide disparities in some financial institutions between how much men and women are paid on average.\n\nStatehouses in California, Illinois, Oregon, and Rhode Island responded to allegations of sexual harassment surfaced by the campaign, and several women in politics spoke out about their experiences of sexual harassment, including United States Senators Heidi Heitkamp, Mazie Hirono, Claire McCaskill and Elizabeth Warren. Congresswoman Jackie Speier has introduced a bill aimed at making sexual harassment complaints easier to report on Capitol Hill. The accusations in the world of Spanish politics have also been published in the media, and a series of allegations and research on MPs and political figures of (all major British political parties) regarding sexual impropriety became a nationwide scandal in 2017; this research was undertaken in the aftermath of the Weinstein scandal and the Me Too movement.\n\nDetective Leslie Branch-Wise of the Denver Police Department spoke publicly for the first time in 2018 about experiencing sexual harassment by Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock. The detective provided sexually suggestive text messages from Hancock sent to her while working for Hancock's security detail in 2012. After six years of keeping the secret, Detective Branch-Wise credited the Me Too movement as an inspiration to share her experience.\n\nJackie Speier proposed the Member and Employee Training and Oversight on Congress Act (ME TOO Congress Act) on November 15, 2017. The full language of the bipartisan bill was revealed by the House on January 18, 2018 as an amendment to the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995. The purpose of the bill is to change how the legislative branch of the U.S. federal government treats sexual harassment complaints. Under the old system, complaints regarding the legislative branch were channeled through the Office of Compliance, which required complete confidentially through the process and took months of counseling and mediation before a complaint could actually be filed. Any settlement payments were paid using federal taxes, and it was reported that within a decade, $15 million of tax money had been spent settling harassment and discrimination complaints. The bill would ensure future complaints could only take up to 180 days to be filed. The bill would also allow the staffers to transfer to a different department or otherwise work away from the presence of the alleged harasser without losing their jobs if they requested it. The bill would require Representatives and Senators to pay for their own harassment settlements. The Office of Compliance would no longer be allowed to keep settlements secret, and would be required to publicly publish the settlement amounts and the associated employing offices. For the first time, the same protections would also apply to unpaid workers, including pages, fellows and interns.\n\nSoon after #MeToo started spreading in late 2017, several allegations from a 2016 \"Indianapolis Star\" article re-surfaced in the gymnastic industry against former U.S. Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar of Michigan State University. Nassar was called out via #MeToo for sexually assaulting gymnasts as young as 6 years old during \"treatments\". Rachael Denhollander was the first to call him out. Though nothing was done after the initial allegations came out in 2016, after more than 150 women came forward, Nassar was effectively sentenced to life in prison. The president of Michigan State University, Lou Anna Simon, resigned in the wake of the scandal.\n\nMeToo has encouraged discussion about sexual harassment in the medical field. Research had indicated that among U.S. academic medical faculty members, about 30% of women and 4% of men have reported experiencing sexual harassment, and it has been noted that medical staff who complain often receive negative consequences to their careers. Other evidence has indicated 60% of medical trainees and students experienced harassment or discrimination during training, though most do not report the incidents.\n\nIn the music industry, the band Veruca Salt used the #MeToo hashtag to air allegations of sexual harassment against James Toback, and Alice Glass used the hashtag to share a history of alleged sexual assault and other abuses by former Crystal Castles bandmate Ethan Kath.\n\nHalsey's poem \"A Story Like Mine,\" in which she told personal stories of sexual assault and violence throughout her life included accompanying her best friend to Planned Parenthood after she had been raped, her personal account of sexual assault by neighbors and boyfriends, and women sexually assaulted by Olympic doctor Larry Nassar.\n\nIn the wake of #MeToo, #MeTooMilitary came to be used by service men and women who were sexually assaulted or harassed while in the military, appearing on social media in January 2018 the day after remarks by Oprah Winfrey at the Golden Globe Awards honoring female soldiers in the military \"whose names we'll never know\" who have suffered sexual assault and abuse in order to make things better for women today.\n\nA report from the Pentagon indicated that 15,000 members of the military reported being sexually assaulted in the year 2016, and only 1 out of 3 people assaulted actually made a report, indicating as many as 45,000 assaults occurred. Veteran Nichole Bowen-Crawford has said the rates have improved over the last decade, but the military still has a long way to go, and recommends that women veterans connect privately on social media to discuss sexual abuse in a safe environment.\n\nThere was a \"#MeTooMilitary Stand Down\" protest, organized by Service Women's Action Network, which gathered at the Pentagon on January 8, 2018. The protest was endorsed by the U.S. Department of Defense, who stated that current service members were welcome to attend as long as they did not wear their uniform. The protest supported the Military Justice Improvement Act, sponsored by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, which would move \"the decision over whether to prosecute serious [sex] crimes to independent, trained, professional military prosecutors, while leaving uniquely military crimes within the chain of command\".\n\nThere have been discussions about how pornography is related to the emergence of the #MeToo movement, and what changes, if any, should be made to the porn industry in response. The deaths of five female porn actresses during the first three months of 2018 inspired demands that workers in the industry be included as part of the #MeToo movement. It has been pointed out that many women and men have been sexually assaulted on set. Some high-profile pornographic performers have been accused of assault since the emergence of #MeToo, including James Deen and Ron Jeremy. The porn industry has overall been supportive of #MeToo, with the topics of harassment and bodily autonomy being addressed at the 2018 AVN Awards. There have been calls for the industry to police itself better in the wake of #MeToo. However, when gay actor Tegan Zayne accused fellow actor Topher DiMaggio of rape in a #MeToo post, and four other men came forward with their own allegations of sexual misconduct against DiMaggio, very little happened and there was no official investigation.\n\nSeveral groups of Christians, conservative women, and radical feminists have argued that #MeToo demonstrates pornography causes women to be viewed as sexual objects and contributes to the prevalence of sexual harassment. As a result, these groups believe the production and consumption of pornography should be greatly restricted or made illegal.\n\nOther social advocates and feminists have responded by pointing out that attempts to suppress pornography in the U.S. have historically never been effective at reducing consumption. They note that porn consumption in the U.S. is currently at what is likely the highest levels in history, but overall levels of sexual violence and rape are far lower today than when the anti-pornography movement in the U.S. first emerged during the 1960s. Additionally, many feminists argue that laws which make pornography illegal only further restrict women as far what they are and are not allowed to do with their bodies.\n\nMany feminists have stated that pornography can be empowering or enjoyable for women and depicting female sexuality is not always objectification. Others point out that a lot of porn is made by women and for women. Award-winning porn actress and director Angela White says there is a \"large positive shift within the industry\" to more women directing and producing their own content and \"to represent women as powerful sexual beings.\" Anti-porn activist Melissa Farley has said this ignores the \"choicelessness\" faced by many actresses in porn. Liberal advocates argue that anti-pornography movements in the U.S. have historically never tried to increase choices for vulnerable adult performers, and taking away a person's right to act in porn may hurt them economically by reducing their choices. Many adult performers have stated that the social stigma surrounding their type of work is already a major barrier when they're seeking help, and making porn illegal would leave them few options if they are suffering from sexual abuse.\n\nAs a result of #MeToo, many adult performers, sex worker advocates and feminists have called for greater protections for pornographic actresses, for example reducing social stigmas, mandating training courses that teach performers their rights, and providing access to independent hotlines where performers can report abuse. They argue that making porn illegal would only cause the production of porn to go underground where there are even fewer options for help. Some liberal activists have argued to compromise by raising the legal age of entry into adult entertainment from 18 to 21, which would prevent some of the most vulnerable women from being taken advantage of, while allowing adult women to still do what they want with their own bodies.\n\nSome have pointed out that many young people who do not receive a sex education adopt ideas about sex and sexual roles from pornography, whose fantasy depictions of those behaviors are not accurate to life, as they are designed for purposes of adult entertainment, and not educating the public on the reality of sexual behavior. Some areas of the United States teach birth-control methods only by abstinence from sex. In a 2015 article for the \"American Journal of Nursing\" David Carter noted that a study found that abstinence based education was \"correlated with increases in teenage pregnancies and births\". Multiple people have voiced support for comprehensive sex education programs that encompass a wide range topics, which they state leave children more informed. Several feminists have argued it is crucial to provide children with basic sex education before they are inevitably exposed to porn. Sex education can also effectively prepare children to identify and say no to unwanted sexual contact before it occurs, and gives parents an opportunity to teach children about consent.\n\nThe original purpose of \"Me Too\" as used by Tarana Burke in 2006, was to empower women through empathy, especially young and vulnerable women. In October 2017, Alyssa Milano encouraged using the phrase as a hashtag to help reveal the extent of problems with sexual harassment and assault by showing how many people have experienced these events themselves.\n\nAfter millions of people started using the phrase, and it spread to dozens of other languages, the purpose changed and expanded, as a result, it has come to mean different things to different people. Tarana Burke accepts the title of the leader and creator of the movement but has stated she considers herself a worker of something much bigger. Burke has stated that this movement has grown to include both men and women of all colors and ages, as it continues to support marginalized people in marginalized communities. There have also been movements by men aimed at changing the culture through personal reflection and future action, including #IDidThat, #IHave, and #IWill.\n\nAnalyses of the movement often point to the prevalence of sexual violence, which has been estimated by the World Health Organization to affect one-third of all women worldwide. A 2017 poll by ABC News and \"The Washington Post\" also found that 54% of American women report receiving \"unwanted and inappropriate\" sexual advances with 95% saying that such behavior usually goes unpunished. Others state that #MeToo underscores the need for men to intervene when they witness demeaning behavior.\n\nBurke said that #MeToo declares sexual violence sufferers are not alone and should not be ashamed. Burke says sexual violence is usually caused by someone the woman knows, so people should be educated from a young age they have the right to say no to sexual contact from any person, even after repeat solicitations from an authority or spouse, and to report predatory behavior. Burke advises men to talk to each other about consent, call out demeaning behavior when they see it and try to listen to victims when they tell their stories.\n\nAlyssa Milano described the reach of #MeToo as helping society understand the \"magnitude of the problem\" and said, \"it's a standing in solidarity to all those who have been hurt.\" She stated that the success of #MeToo will require men to take a stand against behavior that objectifies women.\n\nBurke has stated the current purpose of the movement is to give people the resources to have access to healing, and advocates for changes to laws and policies. Burke has highlighted goals such as processing all untested rape kits, re-examining local school policies, improving the vetting of teachers, and updating sexual harassment policies. She has called for all professionals who work with children to be fingerprinted and subjected to a background check before being cleared to start work. She advocates for sex education that teaches kids to report predatory behavior immediately. Burke supports the #MeToo bill in the US Congress, which would remove the requirement that staffers of the federal government go through months of \"cooling off\" before being allowed to file a complaint against a Congressperson.\n\nMilano states a priority for #MeToo is changing the laws surrounding sexual harassment and assault, for example, instituting protocols that give sufferers in all industries the ability to file complaints without retaliation. She supports legislation making it difficult for publicly traded companies to hide cover-up money from their stockholders and would like to make it illegal for employers to require new workers sign non-disclosure agreements as a condition of employment. Gender analysts such as Anna North have stated that #MeToo should be addressed as a labor issue due to the economic disadvantages to reporting harassment. North suggested combating underlying power imbalances in some workplaces, for example by raising the tipped minimum wage, and embraces innovations like the \"portable panic buttons\" that are mandated for hotel employees in Seattle.\n\nOthers have suggested that barriers to employment must be removed, such as the job requirement by some employers to sign non-disclosure agreements or other agreements that prevent an employee from talking about their employment publicly, or taking disputes (including sexual harassment claims) to arbitration or legal proceedings. It's been suggested that legislation should be passed that bans these types of mandatory pre-employment agreements.\n\nSome policy-based changes that have been suggested is reducing limited managerial oversight; creating clear internal reporting mechanisms; more effective and proactive disciplinary measures; creating a culture that encourages employees to be open about serious problems; making financial penalties for workers who work for companies that allow those workers to remain in their position when they have repeatedly sexually harassed others; and force companies to pay huge fines or lose tax breaks if they decide to keep workers that are sexual harassers around.\n\nIn the coverage of #MeToo, there has been widespread discussion about the best way for sufferers of sexual abuse or harassment to stop what is happening to them at work. There is general agreement that a lack of effective reporting options is a major factor that drives unchecked sexual misconduct in the workplace.\n\nFalse reports of sexual assault are rare but when they happen, they are put in the spotlight for the public to see. The media does this to portray the image that the majority of the reported sexual assaults are falsely reported by women. However, falsely reported sexual assaults only make up 3% of the total amount that are reported. This doesn’t even take into account the amount of women that still don’t report their stories. This is yet another reason why women are scared to report their experiences with sexual assault because they are afraid that no one will ever believe their story and in the process they will have embarrassed and humiliated themselves.\n\nIn France, a person who makes a sexual harassment complaint at work is reprimanded or fired 40% of the time, while the accused person is typically not investigated or punished. In the United States, a 2016 report from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission states that although 25–85% of women say they experience sexual harassment at work, few ever report the incidents, most commonly due to fear of reprisal. There is evidence that in Japan, as few as 4% of rape victims report the crime, and the charges are dropped about half the time.\n\nThere is a discussion on the best ways to handle whisper networks, or private lists of \"people to avoid\" that are shared unofficially in nearly every major institution or industry where sexual harassment is common due to power imbalances, including government, media, news, and academia. These lists have the stated purpose of warning other workers in the industry and are shared from person-to-person, on forums, in private social media groups, and via spreadsheets. However, these lists can become \"weaponized\" and used to spread unsubstantiated gossip, which has been discussed widely in the media.\n\nDefenders say the lists provide a way to warn other people in the industry if worried about punishment, or if complaints have already been ignored, and also helps victims identify each other so they can speak out together. Sometimes these lists are kept for other reasons, for example, a spreadsheet from the United Kingdom called \"High Libido MPs\" and dubbed \"the spreadsheet of shame\" was created by a group of male and female parliamentary researchers, and contained a list of allegations against nearly 40 Conservative MPs in the British Parliament. It is also rumored that party whips (who are in charge of getting members of Parliament to commit to votes) maintain a \"black book\" that contains allegations against several lawmakers that can be used for blackmail. When it is claimed a well-known person's sexual misconduct was an \"open secret\", these lists are often the source. In the wake of #MeToo, several private whisper network lists have been leaked to the public.\n\nIn India, a student gave her friends a list containing names of professors and academics in the Indian university system to be avoided. The list went viral after it was posted on social media. In response to criticism in the media, the authors defended themselves by saying they were only trying to warn their friends, had confirmed every case, and several victims from the list were poor students who had already been punished or ignored when trying to come forward. Moira Donegan, a New York City-based journalist, privately shared a crowd-sourced Shitty Media Men list of people to avoid in publishing and journalism. When it was shared outside her private network, Donegan lost her job. Donegan stated it was unfair so few people had access to the list before it went public; for example, very few women of color received access (and therefore protection) from it. She pointed to her \"whiteness, health, education, and class\" that allowed her to take the risk of sharing the list and getting fired.\n\nThe main problem with trying to protect more potential victims by publishing whisper networks is determining the best mechanism to verify allegations in a way that is fair to all parties. Some suggestions have included strengthening labor unions in vulnerable industries so workers can report harassment directly to the union instead of to an employer. Another suggestion is to maintain industry hotlines which have the power to trigger third-party investigations. Several apps have been developed which offer various ways to report sexual misconduct, and some of these apps also have the ability to connect victims who have reported the same person.\n\nIn the wake of #MeToo, many countries such as the U.S., India, France, China, Japan, and Italy, have seen discussion in the media on whether cultural norms need to be changed for sexual harassment to be eradicated in the workplace.\n\nDr. John Launer of Health Education England stated leaders must be made aware of common \"mismatches of perceptions\" at work to reduce incidents where one person thinks they are flirting while the other person feels like they're being demeaned or harassed. Reporter Anna North from \"Vox\" states one way to address #MeToo is teach children the basics of sex. North states the cultural notion that women do not enjoy sex leads men \"to believe that a lukewarm yes is all they're ever going to get\", referring to a 2017 study which found that men who believe women enjoy being forced into sex are \"more likely to perceive women as consenting\". Alyssa Rosenberg of \"The Washington Post\" called for society to be careful of overreaching by \"being clear about what behavior is criminal, what behavior is legal but intolerable in a workplace, and what private intimate behavior is worthy of condemnation\" but not part of the workplace discussion. She says \"preserving the nuances\" is more inclusive and realistic.\n\nProfessor Daniel Drezner stated that #MeToo laid the groundwork for two major cultural shifts. One is the acceptance that sexual harassment (not just sexual assault) is unacceptable in the workplace. The other is that when a powerful person is accused of sexual harassment, the reaction should be a presumption that the less powerful accuser is \"likely telling the truth, because the risks of going public are great.\" However, he states society is struggling with the speed at which change is being demanded.\n\nAlthough #MeToo initially focused on adults, the message spread to students in K–12 schools where sexual abuse is common both in person and online. MeTooK12 is a spin-off of #MeToo created in January 2018 by the group Stop Sexual Assault in Schools, founded by Joel Levin and Esther Warkov, aimed at stopping sexual abuse in education from kindergarten to high school. #MeTooK12 was inspired in part by the removal of certain federal Title IX sexual misconduct guidelines. There is evidence that sexual misconduct in K–12 education is dramatically underreported by both schools and students, because nearly 80% of public schools never report any incidents of harassment. A 2011 survey found 40% of boys and 56% of girls in grades 7–12 reported had experienced some type of negative sexual comment or sexual harassment in their lives. Approximately 5% of K–12 sexual misconduct reports involved 5 or 6-year-old students. #MeTooK12 is meant to demonstrate the widespread prevalence of sexual misconduct towards children in school, and the need for increased training on Title IX policies, as only 18 states require people in education to receive training about what to do when a student or teacher is sexually abused.\n\nThere has been discussion about what possible roles men may have in the #MeToo movement. It has been noted that 1 in 6 men have experienced sexual abuse of some sort during their lives and often feel unable to talk about it. Creator Tarana Burke and others have asked men to call out bad behavior when they see it, or just spend time quietly listening. Some men have expressed the desire to keep a greater distance from women since #MeToo went viral because they do not fully understand what actions might be considered inappropriate. For the first few months after #MeToo started trending, many men expressed difficulty in participating in the conversation due to fear of negative consequences, citing examples of men who have been treated negatively after sharing their thoughts about #MeToo.\n\nAuthor and former pick-up artist Michael Ellsberg encourages men to reflect on past behavior and examples of questionable sexual behavior, such as the viral story Cat Person, which is written from the perspective of a twenty-year-old woman who goes on a date with a much older man and ends up having an unpleasant sexual experience that was consensual but unwanted. Ellsberg has asked men to pledge to ensure women are mutually interested in initiating a sexual encounter and to slow down if there is ever doubt a woman wants to continue.\n\nRelationship instructor Kasia Urbaniak said the movement is creating its own crisis around masculinity. \"There's a reflective questioning about whether they’re going to be next and if they’ve ever hurt a woman. There's a level of anger and frustration. If you’ve been doing something wrong but haven't been told, there's an incredible sense of betrayal and it’ll provoke a backlash. I think silence on both sides is incredibly dangerous.\" Urbaniak says she would like women to be allies of men and to be curious about their experience. \"In that alliance there's a lot more power and possibility than there is in men stepping aside and starting to stew.\"\n\nIn August 2018, \"The New York Times\" detailed allegations that leading #MeToo figure Asia Argento sexually assaulted actor Jimmy Bennett. The sexual assault allegedly took place in a California hotel room in 2013 when he was only two months past his 17th birthday and she was 37; the age of consent is 18. Bennett said when Argento came out against Harvey Weinstein, it stirred memories of his own experience. He imparted he had sought to resolve the matter privately, and had not spoken out sooner, “because I was ashamed and afraid to be part of the public narrative.” In a statement provided to \"The Times\", he said: \"I was underage when the event took place, and I tried to seek justice in a way that made sense to me at the time because I was not ready to deal with the ramifications of my story becoming public. At the time I believed there was still a stigma to being in the situation as a male in our society. I didn’t think that people would understand the event that took place from the eyes of a teenage boy.\" Bennett said he would like to \"move past this event in my life,\" adding, “today I choose to move forward, no longer in silence.\" Argento, who quietly arranged a $380,000 nondisclosure settlement with Bennett in the months following her revelations regarding Weinstein, has denied the allegations. Rose McGowan initially expressed support for Argento on and implored others to show restraint, tweeting, \"None of us know the truth of the situation and I'm sure more will be revealed. Be gentle.\" As one of the most vocal advocates of the Me Too movement, McGowan faced criticism on social media for her comments, which conflicted with the movement's message of believing survivors. MeToo founder Tarana Burke responded the Asia Argento report, stating \"I’ve said repeatedly that the #metooMVMT is for all of us, including these brave young men who are now coming forward. Sexual violence is about power and privilege. That doesn’t change if the perpetrator is your favorite actress, activist or professor of any gender.\"\n\nThe related hashtag #HimToo emerged in popularity with the #MeToo movement. Although dating back to at least 2015, and initially associated with politics or casual communication, #HimToo took on new meanings associated with #MeToo in 2017, with some using it to emphasize male victims of sexual harassment and abuse, and others using it to emphasize male perpetrators. In September and October 2018, during the sexual assault allegations raised during Brett Kavanaugh's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court, #HimToo became used by supporters of Kavanaugh and to highlight male victims of false accusations.\nSome feminists and women have criticized the movement.\n\nThere has been discussion about whether the movement is meant to inspire change in all men or just a percentage of them, and what specific actions are the end goal of the movement. Other women have stated #MeToo should examine only the worst types of abuse in order to prevent casting all men as perpetrators, or causing people to become numb to the problem.\n\nCreator Tarana Burke has laid out specific goals for the #MeToo movement, including: processing all untested rape kits in the United States, investigating the vetting of teachers, better protecting children at school, updating sexual harassment policies, and improving training in workplaces, places of worship, and schools. She has stated that everyone in a community, including men and women, must take action in order to make the #MeToo movement a success. She also supports the #MeToo Congress bill and hopes it will inspire similar legal changes in other parts of the country.\n\nRichard Ackland, a lawyer and award-winning journalist, described the response to defamation cases \"an asphyxiating vortex of litigation\".\n\nThere has been discussion on whether harsh consequences are warranted for particular examples of alleged misconduct. An especially divisive story broke on Babe.net on January 13, 2018 when an anonymous accuser detailed the events of her date with Aziz Ansari and referred to what transpired as \"sexual assault\". Jill Filipovic wrote for \"The Guardian\" that \"it was only a matter of time before a publication did us the disservice of publishing a sensational story of a badly behaved man who was nonetheless not a sexual assailant\".\n\nSome actors have admonished proponents of the movement for not distinguishing between different degrees of sexual misconduct. Matt Damon commented on the phenomenon in an interview, and later apologized, saying \"the clearer signal to men and to younger people is, deny it. Because if you take responsibility for what you did, your life's going to get ruined.\" Subsequently, Liam Neeson opined that some accused men, including Garrison Keillor and Dustin Hoffman, were being treated unfairly.\n\nTarana Burke said in January 2018, \"Those of us who do this work know that backlash is inevitable.\" While describing the backlash as carrying an underlying sentiment of fairness, she defended her movement as \"not a witch hunt as people try to paint it\". She stated that engaging with the cultural critique in #MeToo was more productive than calling for it to end or focusing on accused men who \"haven't actually touched anybody\". Ronan Farrow, who published the Weinstein exposé in the \"New Yorker\" that helped start the #MeToo resurgence (alongside \"New York Times\" reporters Megan Twohey and Jodi Kantor), was asked in late December 2017 whether he thought the movement had \"gone too far\". Farrow called for a careful examination of each story to guard against false accusations but also recalled the alleged sexual abuse his sister Dylan Farrow claims she went through at the hands of his father Woody Allen. He stated that after decades of silence, \"My feeling is that this is a net benefit to society and that all of the people, men, and women, pouring forward and saying 'me too' deserve this moment. I think you're right to say that we all have to be conscious of the risk of the pendulum swinging too far, but in general this is a very positive step.\"\n\nIjeoma Oluo spoke about how some Democrats have expressed regret over the resignation of Senator Al Franken due to allegations of sexual misconduct. She sympathized with them but stressed the importance of punishing misconduct regardless of whether the perpetrator is viewed as \"a bad guy\" overall. She wrote that \"most abusers are more like Al Franken than Harvey Weinstein\". \"The New York Times\" has called this discussion the \"Louis C.K. Conundrum\", referring to the admission by comedian Louis C.K. that he committed sexual misconduct with five women, and the subsequent debate over whether any guilt should be associated with enjoyment of his work. Jennifer Wright of \"Harper's Bazaar\" has said that public fears of an overcorrection reflect the difficulty of accepting that \"likeable men can abuse women too\".\n\nThe hashtag has been criticized for putting the responsibility of publicizing sexual harassment and abuse on those who experienced it, which could be re-traumatizing. The hashtag has been criticized as inspiring fatigue and outrage, rather than emotionally dense communication.\n\nTony Robbins said he was \"knocking victimhood\" from the movement.The motivational speaker was also scrutinized for comments he made criticizing the movement, implying that women are victimizing themselves to gain significance. He later apologized adding, \"I need to get connected to the brave women of #MeToo.\"\n\nThere have been many calls for the #MeToo movement to include sex workers and sex trafficking victims. Although these women experience a higher rate of sexual harassment and assault than any other group of people, they are often seen in society as legitimate targets that deserve such acts against them. Autumn Burris stated that prostitution is like \"#MeToo on steroids\" because the sexual harassment and assault described in #MeToo stories are frequent for women in prostitution. Melissa Farley argues that prostitution, even when consensual, can be a form of sexual assault, as it can be for money for food or similar items, thus, at least according to Farley, making prostitution a forced lifestyle relying on coercions for food. Some sex workers disagree with her stance, saying that she stigmatizes prostitution.\n\nAmerican journalist Steven Thrasher noted that, \"There has been worry that the #MeToo movement could lead to a sex panic. But the real sex panic is not due to feminism run amok, but due to the patriarchal, homophobic, transantagonistic, theocratic desire of the US Congress to control sex workers.\" He points to 2018 Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA), which many experts say will only put sex workers at further risk by causing them to go underground, does not offer sex workers any help or protections, and as a side effect prevents most people from using online personal ads regardless of their intentions.\n\nThere has been discussion about the extent to which accusers should be believed before fact-checking. Some have questioned whether the accused are being punished without due process confirming their guilt.\n\nMany commentators have responded that the number of false reports is expected to be low, citing figures obtained by the U.S. Department of Justice and other organizations which estimate the number of false rape accusations to be around 2–10%. However, the 2-10% figure refers to rape reports which are found to be false, and does not include cases in which it cannot be established if the accused is innocent or guilty.\n\nA February 2005 study by the UK Home Office on reported rape cases found that from a set of 216 rape cases later found to be false, only six led to arrests and only two involved charges being filed. \"Elle\" writer Sady Doyle commented that another hashtag, #BelieveWomen, was not a threat to due process but a commitment to \"recognize that false allegations are less common than real ones\". Jennifer Wright of \"Harper's Bazaar\" proposed a similar definition of #BelieveWomen and pointed out \"The Washington Post\" ability to quickly identify a false accusation set up by Project Veritas. She also stated that only 52 rape convictions being overturned in the United States since 1989, as opposed to 790 for murder, was strong evidence that at least 90% of rape allegations are true. Michelle Malkin challenged this claim, citing the book \"False Allegations\" by Brent Turvey, John Savino and Aurelio Coronado Mares, which states that published research about false rape accusations indicate that the percentage ranges from 8–41%.> She expressed a suspicion that many stories in the #MeToo movement would be exaggerated and accused news outlets of focusing on \"hashtag trends spread by celebrities, anonymous claimants and bots\".\n\nOn November 30, 2017, Ijeoma Oluo revealed the contents of a request she received from \"USA Today\", asking her to write a piece arguing that due process is unnecessary for sexual harassment allegations. She refused, saying \"of course I believe in due process\" and wrote that it was disingenuous for the paper to ask her \"to be their strawman\".\n\nOn September 21, 2018, President Donald Trump accused Dr. Christine Blasey Ford of making up her accusations against now Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, Brett Kavanaugh, saying that if her story was true she would have filed a report against him when it had happened. This is a common argument against the MeToo movement and sexual assault victims alike.\n\nOn 11 October 2018 Melania Trump, wife of US President Donald Trump, said that women who make accusations of sexual abuse against men should back their claims with solid evidence.\n\nDespite the prevalence of sexual misconduct, some have pointed out the lack of discussion in the #MeToo movement regarding law-enforcement misconduct.\nPolice sexual misconduct disproportionately affects women of color, though women from all walks of life are affected. The Cato Institute reported that in 2010, more than 9% of police misconduct reports in 2010 involved sexual abuse, and there are multiple indications that \"sexual assault rates are significantly higher for police when compared to the general population.\" Fear of retribution is considered one reason some law-enforcement officers are not subjected to significant consequences for known misconduct. Police-reform activist Roger Goldman stated that an officer who is fired for sexual misconduct from one police department often gets rehired by a different department, where they can continue the misconduct in a new environment. Some states (such as Florida and Georgia) have licensing laws that can decertify a law-enforcement officer who has committed major misconduct, which prevents decertified officers from being hired again in that state. Some have called for sexual misconduct allegations against police to be investigated by third parties to reduce bias (as opposed to the common practice of investigations being led by fellow law-enforcement officers or colleagues in the same department).\n\nMany have pointed to a lack of representation of minority women in the #MeToo movement or its leadership. Most historical feminist movements have contained active elements of racism, and have typically ignored the needs of non-white women despite the fact that minority women are more likely to be targets of sexual harassment.\n\nMinority women are overrepresented in industries with the greatest number of sexual harassment claims, for example hotels, health, food services, and retail. It has been pointed out that undocumented minority women often have no recourse if they're experiencing sexual violence. Activist Charlene Carruthers said, \"If wealthy, highly visible women in news and entertainment are sexually harassed, assaulted and raped—what do we think is happening to women in retail, food service and domestic work?\"\n\nFormer victim Farah Tanis stated there are also additional barriers for black women who want to participate in the #MeToo movement. She pointed out that there is often social pressure not to report allegations against black men, especially from church and family, because many would view that as a betrayal against their \"brothers.\" Additionally, black women are less likely to be believed if they do speak out.\n\nSome have argued that the American judicial system acknowledges the term \"sexual harassment\" only because of successful sexual harassment lawsuits by three black women: Diane Williams and Paulette Barnes against the US government, and Mechelle Vinson against a bank. Vinson's case of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson eventually leading to the unanimous 1986 Supreme Court decision that sexual harassment violates the Civil Rights Act. Black law professor Anita Hill again brought sexual harassment to public discourse in 1991 with her testimony against Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas.\n\nTarana Burke initially criticized the movement for ignoring the work of black women in creating dialogue addressing sexual assault. However, she did salute those who partook in the movement and credited Milano for acknowledging Burke's own similar movement. As well as this, she pleaded to black women not to drop out of the movement just because the media isn't listening saying \"This is your movement, too.\"\n\nAmerican feminist and journalist Gloria Steinem said there is a blind spot surrounding intersectionality between race and gender, and a major problem with today's feminists is they are not acknowledging \"that women of color in general—and especially black women—have always been more likely to be feminist than white women.\" Steinem argues that #MeToo could never have happened without the work of these women, and women in the #MeToo movement have a responsibility: “If you have more power, remember to listen as much as you talk. And if you have less power, remember to talk as much as you listen.\"\n\nThe #MeToo movement has been criticized for putting too much public focus on the consequences of specific individuals who have been accused of sexual misconduct, as opposed to discussing policies and changes to institutional norms that would help people who are currently experiencing sexual abuse. It's been noted that although allegations surrounding high-profile public figures tends to attract the most attention, the stories of regular workers often go unacknowledged. Yet to ensure meaningful change, these workers’ experiences must be at the center of any policy solutions that lawmakers pursue. Tarana Burke has voiced similar misgivings, pointing out one problematic aspect of #MeToo is \"All of this media attention is on the perpetrator. All of the conversation about fairness and due process is focused on the perpetrator.\" She states the movement should focus on specific steps to help current and future sufferers. Activist and writer Jaclyn Friedman said, \"We’ve got to stop treating each case that comes to light like a self-contained soap opera that ends when the villain is defeated, and start addressing the systems that have enabled workplace sexual abuse for so long.\" Writer Jia Tolentino has stated that it is natural to focus on the individual stories because they are \"gripping and horrible\", but determining the best workplace changes \"doesn't have a ton to do with the specific investigation and adjudication of men that have already done this\".\n\nIn May 2018, The New York Women's Foundation announced their Fund to Support the Me Too Movement and Allies, a $25M commitment over the next five years to provide funding and support survivors of sexual violence.\n\nIn September 2018, CBS announced that it would be donating $20 million of former Chairman Les Moonves' severance to #MeToo. Moonves was forced to step down after numerous sexual misconduct accusations.\n\nThe hashtag has trended in at least 85 countries, including India, Pakistan, and the United Kingdom. Direct translations of #MeToo have been shared by Spanish speakers in South America and Europe and by Arabic speakers in Africa and the Middle East, while activists in France and Italy have developed hashtags to express the attitudes of the movement. Communicating similar experiences and \"sharing feelings in some form of togetherness\" connects people and can lead to \"formation of a process of collective action\" (Castells). The campaign has prompted survivors from around the world to share their stories, and name their perpetrators. The European Parliament convened a session directly in response to the Me Too campaign, after it gave rise to allegations of abuse in Parliament and in the European Union's offices in Brussels. Cecilia Malmström, the European Commissioner for Trade, specifically cited the hashtag as the reason the meeting had been convened.\n\n\nThe #MeToo hashtag initially spread in Afghanistan where it is estimated about 90% of women experience sexual harassment in public, at school, or at work, but was quickly silenced when those who shared their stories started fearing for their life. Less than 1% of police officers or military members are women, and sexual assault is often ignored by law enforcement and the military. Rape threats and other types of harassment are common on Facebook and other social media in Afghanistan. Sharing stories of sexual abuse against higher-ranking men is especially dangerous for women in the country, and may result in the killing of the victim or her family members. Some women are also punished or killed to by their own family for speaking out, to redeem their \"honor\" after being tarnished by rape. Despite the risks, some notable people such as \"Sarienews\" journalist Maryam Mehtar, and presidential advisor Shaharzad Akbar have shared their own #MeToo stories on social media. Mehtar experienced extreme abuse and several death threats for sharing her story about being sexually harassed in public on a daily basis, and was publicly called a \"whore\" in an interview with \"The New York Times\" by Afghan writer Jalil Junbish. He also called the NYT reporter a whore in the same interview. He later denied making the comments. Other women only share their first name or a fake name, and typically describe the story without naming the perpetrator for fear of reprisal. Sexual harassment was first defined in Afghanistan in 2016, though there has been little effort made to enforce laws against it. Rod Nordland and Fatima Faizi of \"The New York Times\" reported that a colonel in the Afghan Air Force was secretly and clearly videotaped sexually assaulting a subordinate in November 2017, and the video quickly went viral, but despite an alleged investigation, the colonel has not been formally accused of misconduct. The Ministries of Interior and Communications set up a phone hotline to for women to call to report sexual misconduct from law enforcement officials, but a call to the line revealed the hotline will offer advice only about phone harassment, and stated if a person harasses you in person, to \"slap them\".\n\nIn October 2017 reporter and journalist Tracey Spicer announced on Twitter that she was launching an investigation into reports of sexual harassment by powerful Australian men in the media in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations and the rise in public awareness of the #MeToo movement. Earlier that same year, Spicer had released a memoir, \"The Good Girl Stripped Bare\", where she wrote about her own experiences of sexual harassment in the work place. Spicer later reported that she had received responses from 470 people about people in the industry, including Australian television presenter and producer Don Burke. The extent of the claims against Burke were published by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and The Sydney Morning Herald in a joint investigative piece on 26 November 2017, where it was reported that \"One name kept recurring – Don Burke.\"Spicer, along with Kate McClymont, Lorna Knowles and Alison Branley, won the 2018 Walkley Awards in the print/text journalism and Television/Video Current Affairs Short (less than 20 minutes) categories for their investigation and on Australia Day in 2018, Spicer was appointed as a Member of the Order of Australia \"for significant service to the broadcast media as a journalist and television presenter, and as an ambassador for social welfare and charitable groups\". Later that same year, Spicer and Melinda Schneider launched NOW Australia, a campaign aimed at helping connect people with legal support and counselling.\n\nSince then the #MeToo movement has now expanded beyond Australian media and the Australian Human Rights Commission has launched an independent search into workplace sexual harassment that is the first of its kind in the world.\n\nIt has been hypothesised by \"The Age\" that Australia's strict defamation laws make it difficult for more victims to come forward.\n\nIn French-speaking parts of Canada, the campaign is done under the hashtag . A minister of Quebec, , said she believed a global movement was in the works and we should salute this change. It was reported that calls to rape and women's crisis centers have increased dramatically, up to 553% above normal levels, since started trending in October 2017, causing problems with staffing and budgeting. Quebec has contributed $1 million to help support these crisis hotlines. Hundreds of people marched to promote at an event in Toronto in December 2017. In the wake of , a candidate for mayor of dropped out of the race in response to allegations of sexual misconduct from several women. Montreal police set up a phone hotline for people who have been raped or harassed to call. Radio and TV presenter was accused by 11 people of either being sexually harassed, or witnessing harassment from . He lost several endorsements and was suspended from most projects he was involved with. Humorist resigned from all his positions and tried to sell his company in the wake of several sexual misconduct allegations, including one from producer , a class action lawsuit from several women, and a sexual assault report filed with the police.\n\nA newly popular hashtag, (#AndNow or Now What?) has started spreading as the \"second part\" to to discuss what to do now that the magnitude of the problem with sexual misconduct in the workplace has been exposed. is represented by a yellow heart. It was unveiled on the show in January 2018, with the stated purpose of determining which attitudes related to society, politics, institutions, and media need to be changed to ensure equity between all people.\n\nCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has been a vocal advocate and supporter of the #MeToo movement. In a speech at the World Economic Forum in January 2018, Trudeau called for critical discussion on issues brought up by the #MeToo, Time's Up, and Women's March movements. Trudeau has also advocated and acted upon a high standard set for himself and members of his government. Trudeau stated that he holds a \"zero tolerance for sexual assault, harassment or other forms of misconduct by his employees or caucus colleagues\". As leader of the Liberal party, Trudeau initiated investigations on several members of parliament resulting in the dismissal of cabinet minister Kent Hehr, the resignation of MP Darshan Kang, and the suspension and later expulsion of MPs Scott Andrews and Massimo Pacetti. In an interview, Trudeau explained that the zero tolerance standard applied to himself as well and stated, \"I've been very, very careful all my life to be thoughtful, to be respectful of people's space and people's headspace as well.\"\n\nHowever, an editorial written in August 2000 resurfaced during his premiership regarding an alleged incident where author accused Trudeau of groping a reporter and in July 2018 Trudeau publicly rejected the accusations. The piece stated Trudeau provided a \"day-late\" apology to the reporter, saying, \"If I had known you were reporting for a national paper, I never would have been so forward.\" On July 6 Trudeau stated there was no need to conduct an investigation into the allegations against him.\n\nIn April–June 2018, female students marched around Chile and occupied universities in protest against sexual harassment. Multiple actresses levelled accusations of Weinstein-like behaviour at telenovela director Herval Abreu in April and film director Nicolás López in June; both men have denied any wrongdoing.\n\nOn Chinese social networks, hashtags #WoYeShi or #metoo are sometimes used to denote the #Metoo hashtag.\n\nIn mainland China, the Chinese internet censorship service has slowed down the Chinese MeToo posts via censorship. So far, the #MeToo debate appears to be limited to universities.\n\nAn article appearing on the state-run \"China Daily\" newspaper states that sexual misconduct is rare in China due to superior education and culture has caused considerable Internet outrages.\n\nA recent study from a pair of professors from City University of Hong Kong indicated that about 80% of working women in China have experienced sexual harassment at some point in their career, and there were strong reactions of anger online following the report. The article has since been taken down. Activist Feng Yuan points out that China does not have national laws prohibiting sexual harassment, and uses state media to encourage women to focus on family and stay home. New laws recently made it illegal for television programming to contain images of a women's cleavage, sexual acts outside of marriage, or any topics that present \"Western lifestyles\" in a positive light. #MeToo has received extreme governmental censorship online.\n\nSophie Richardson, the Human Rights Watch director for China, stated the Chinese government regularly suppresses discussion of women's rights, for example an incident in 2015 where Li Tingting and four other activists were arrested when the government learned they planned to hand out stickers about preventing sexual harassment on public transportation.\n\nIn Hong Kong, track and field athlete Vera Lui Lai-Yiu posted her case of sex abuse alongside #metoo on her Facebook fanpage on her 23rd birthday. She posted in response to a similar action by gymnast McKayla Maroney. Lui posted a picture of herself holding a piece of paper with the handwritten words \"#metoo lly\" (her initials). In January 2018, student Zheng Xi publicly started a campaign against sexual harassment in response to #MeToo.\n\nDr. Luo Xixi, an academic, revealed being sexually assaulted by a professor at Beihang University when she was in her 20s. Luo gathered extensive evidence from many women, including recordings, and presented it to the institution. She waited until the professor was already suspended before going public with the story. Her post was viewed over 3 million times within 24 hours. She said that #metoo gave her the courage to speak up. She is currently living in the US.\n\nAlyssa Milano specifically called for supporting the victims in Ethiopia in an interview with \"Rolling Stone\". In Ethiopia, up to 40% of students may have experienced sexual violence. In November 2017, nine middle-school aged girls organized together and spoke out about an abusive teacher in their school, saying they got the idea from the \"Me Too\" movement. The teacher was dismissed and referred to law enforcement. UNICEF's Amanda Westfall said the teacher likely would have gotten away with it just a few years ago.\n\nVariants of the phrase trended in France, especially (#DenounceYourPig), which encouraged users to share the names of their alleged abusers. was first used by Sandra Muller. She was requested to take down her tweet by two lawyers. In France, 93% of complaints against criminal sexual harassment are dropped or never followed up on by law enforcement. Prosecutions are extremely rare, and only 65 of 1,048 sexual harassment lawsuits from 2014 actually led to a conviction. In 40% of workplace sexual violence cases, the person who makes the complaint is reprimanded or fired, while the accused person is typically not investigated or punished. There is no French equivalent to U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which gives victims a place to report workplace sexual violence if the employer and/or law enforcement refuses to address the complaint. , wife of French President , expressed support for the #MeToo movement.\n\nInitially the hashtag went viral, but there was an almost immediate media backlash. Soon after, 100 high-profile French women, including actress , former pornographic actress and radio host , art critic and author , signed an open letter by which criticized the #MeToo / #BalanceTonPorc campaign. It was noted the letter is poorly edited with several typos and unclear or clumsy passages.\n\nThe people who signed the letter, especially and , were criticized for saying men should have the \"right to pester\" women. The letter also told people not to be bothered by small amounts of sexual harassment, for example men who rub against women on public transportation. The letter states women should \"consider it as the expression of a great sexual misery, or even as a nonevent\". French politician said some aspects of the letter were \"profoundly shocking\" and \"we have immense difficulty convincing young women that when a man rubs his genitals against a woman in the Métro without her consent, it is an act of sexual assault that can lead to three years in prison and a 75,000 euro fine.\"\n\nA week after its publication, issued a letter of clarification, and said although she still agrees with the spirit of the original letter, she wants to clarify that she does believe sexual harassment and assault are real problems, and apologized to all victims of unpleasant sexual acts who read the letter and felt hurt by it.\n\nPolitical commentator said the movement to prevent sexual misconduct at work is more accepted by younger women in France because they take sexual freedom as a given, while older feminists are afraid #MeToo may hurt the sexual revolution. Legal professional noted that when people are given \"concrete examples\" of sexual misconduct, they often \"change their minds and acknowledge how harmful some situations can be\". French politician said that the #MeToo movement will continue because French women have been silenced for too long. A petition aimed at President demanded sexual harassment to be taken more seriously in France, and received more than 100,000 signatures in 3 days.\n\nSinger Tom Connan said in an interview published by L'Obs that he had been the victim of sexual harassment and claimed that men (not only women) were also affected by the problem.\n\nMeToo was not particularly popular in Germany until January 11, 2018, when it started trending after the weekly newspaper published reports about three German former actresses who alleged that award-winning TV director had committed sexual assault. There have been official concerns about the alleged long-time coverup of 's actions because most of his work was done through public broadcasting and received government money. The report detailed a months-long investigation into the three allegations, and included 50 interviews. has not responded to the allegations in , stating through a spokesperson he is in the hospital and having heart trouble. Another high-profile German case concerned the former president of the Munich Academy of Music, Siegfried Mauser. In a study of 2000 Germans conducted after the initial spread of #MeToo, it was found that 43% of women and 12% of men have experienced sexual harassment or abuse, most commonly inappropriate touching.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Iran, Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei issued a message stating the “disaster of countless sexual assaults on Western women — including incidents leading to #Metoo campaign” can be solved with the Islamic solution of compulsory hijab.\n\nThe use of the #MeToo hashtag on social media spread quickly in India, where sexual harassment is commonly referred to by the word 'eve-teasing', a term described as misleading, tame, and diluting the seriousness of the crime. In response to #MeToo, there have been attempts to teach Indian women about workplace rights and safe reporting, as well as educate men about the scope of the problem. Some have likened #MeToo to a 2012 social movement which followed a violent gang rape in New Delhi that later resulted in a woman's death, which caused the Indian government to institute harsher punishments for rape. Others have suggested there was underlying public anger over a Delhi rape conviction that was overturned by Judge Ashutosh Kumar a month before against filmmaker and writer Mahmood Farooqui, ruling that a \"feeble\" no was not enough to revoke consent because it was typical for one partner to be less willing. The case is being appealed to the Supreme Court. Activist Jasmeen Patheja, head of Blank Noise, stated #MeToo's power is in demonstrating India can no longer ignore the scope of the problem. Kaimini Jaiswal, a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India, stressed the importance of teaching women how to read, especially in rural villages, because most women in these areas are illiterate and completely financially and emotionally dependent on a male relative.\n\nBlogger Sheena Dabolkar's viral #MeToo tweet resulted in the boycott of Khodu Irani's popular Pune pub, High Spirits, by several well-known performers. Several women mentioned Mahesh Murthy, which initiated a police case in January 2018. The Trends Desk of The Indian Express wrote many Indian men are speaking up as a part of #MeToo, including discussions about consent and how some men are also abused. Rina Chandran of Reuters said #MeToo is ignoring the 600,000 women in India who are currently involuntary sex workers, and are typically poor, uneducated or lack a family.\n\nThere were reports of mass sexual assaults during the 2018 new year's celebrations in Bangalore, which have been associated with #MeToo. The incidents were initially dismissed by the police until someone uploaded CCTV footage of the assaults to social media. Home Minister G. Parameshwara, Abu Azmi, and other officials came under fire for stating \"western\" women's clothing and values were the cause of the rapes and that women's families should not allow them to go to parties or major celebrations.\n\nSeveral lists of alleged rapists and harassers started spreading on social media in India, including \"The List\" which initially included the names of about sixty highly-respected academic men. The List of Sexual Harassers in Academia (\"LoSHA\") was posted on October 24, 2017 by activist Inji Pennu and an Indian student in California named Raya Sarkar, who alleged they personally confirmed every incident. This list has resulted in criticism against #MeToo because the allegations were unverified before they started spreading on social media. Some of the victims from the list have come forward to explain they were ignored, mistreated or retaliated against when they tried to pursue action. Sarkar has defended The List, saying that she posted it only to warn her friends about professors and academics to avoid (mostly upper caste men), and had no idea it could become so popular. A second list came out a week later that was made by women from a lower caste background and included more names, raising the total to around 70.\n\nTwelve prominent Indian feminists dismissed The List in a formal letter, saying they understand that the justice system is typically tilted against victims, but unverified claims make things harder for the feminist movement. Writers Rhea Dangwal and Namrata Gupta responded that most victims from the list were poor students who tried to go through official channels without success or recourse, while every single man on the list has the ability to defend himself socially and legally.\n\nOn September 27, 2018, former actress Tanushree Dutta accused Nana Patekar of sexual harassment, which was the catalyst of the \"Me Too\" movement in India. The accusation by Dutta stirred a row of accusations from many women in industries including media and politics. In October 2018, the Minister of state for External Affairs, MJ Akbar was accused of sexual harassment by several female colleagues through the 'Me Too' Movement in India.\n\nOn October 21, 2018, former music director Anu Malik was suspended from the jury panel of Indian Idol 2018, after facing multiple allegations of sexual harassment made through the movement. \n\nIn Israel, the Hebrew hashtag (#UsToo) began trending on October 18, 2017, with a front page spread in the newspaper . Asi Levi said at the Ophir Award ceremony that unlike America, in Israel the status of those accused do not change. A hashtag for men, #HowIWillChange, has also become popular.\n\n or (#MeToo) has also been used by Palestinian women from refugee camps.\n\nIn Italy, women posted stories of assault and harassment under the hashtag , which translates literally as \"TheTimeThat\". The phrase was launched by the journalist . Italian journalist wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that the initially popular movement quickly died out in Italy. She stated that Italian politician and former Prime Minister , who is known for his role in wild parties (Bunga Bunga bacchanals) with underage women and prostitutes, has contributed to a strong sexist culture with few female politicians in positions of power. Movie directors and were accused of harassment by more than a dozen women but did not face any significant consequences or media scrutiny.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described the movement in Italy as \"Meh\" due to the lack of discussion. , the president of the lower house of Parliament, has declared that the movement cannot touch Italy because although there is much harassment, victims are often silenced and there's also a belief that \"in our country, there are no harassers\". It has been reported that nearly 70% of female university students have been sexually harassed, and it is widely accepted that Italy is behind other countries when it comes to gender rights. In response to , one article from was titled, \"First they put out, then they whine and pretend to regret it.\"\n\nItalian , an employee and friend of Harvey Weinstein, was widely covered by the media after he was accused of allegations that he aided Weinstein in sexually harassing Italian actress and former model , though he denies all wrongdoing. said of Italy, \"Nothing has changed\", and described her life after going public with the allegations as living a nightmare. She has made plans to leave Italy. Conservative TV news editor criticized for being an accomplice to Weinstein for not reporting him immediately, and several other public figures and politicians questioned her innocence.\n\nThe group (Not One Woman Less), which is dedicated to stopping violence against women, wrote a letter in support of and organised a protest in November 2017 where tens of thousands of people gathered in Rome. Blogger (I Break Down Walls), journalist , (literally, \"Loose Bitches\"), and author also strongly supported publicly. Italian women's rights activist has stated that it is taken for granted that women must give or sell their body in order to get high-profile positions in politics, film, and media.\n\n, a politician who has created governmental initiatives aimed at teaching women it's okay to say no to sexual advances, has been targeted in the news and on social media for her support of the movement. She has been impersonated in several fake interviews where the actresses portray in unflattering ways. There are also photoshopped images of that have been shared widely on social media, including a doctored image with her underwear showing during her swearing-in ceremony, which never occurred. , the chair of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide in Italy, said that one women is killed every two days on average by male violence, and the problem is severely under-reported, though credited the hashtag and the work by for making a positive difference.\n\nAlthough the #MeToo movement started out relatively small in Japan, it appears to be picking up steam. There is evidence that just 4% of rape victims in Japan report the crime, and the charges are dropped about half the time. BuzzFeed Japan has started a #MeToo page featuring articles about the movement in Japan. Journalist and author Shiori Ito published an article in Politico about the state of #MeToo in Japan. She has stated, \"It's not that victims haven't come forward; Japanese society wants them to stay silent.\" Two famous authors, Kyoko Nakajima and Mayumi Mori, have written in Asahi newspaper with criticism of Japan's silence on this matter. Takumi Harimaya wrote about the #MeToo movement in BuzzFeed Japan, stating she believes it could make a difference if the idea spreads, and sharing stories of victims, including what happened to popular blogger Hakuo Au (née Haruka Ito) at the hands of Mr Kishi Yuki. Other writers such as Kirsten King and Akiko Kobayashi have shared their #MeToo stories to Japanese audiences.\n\nHarimaya writes how the #MeToo movement has shown several women that they are not alone as they feared, and that many women are experiencing the same sexual violence and harassment. Keiko Kojima of Buzzfeed Japan says that #MeToo is needed in Japan because sexual harassment is baked into Japanese society, and the movement is about the fact that it is okay to say no to sexual violence. She said growing up that she felt getting molested on the train was an unavoidable as mosquito bites in the summer, and she hopes that #MeToo gives more victims the ability to find their voice, including male victims. She says that, despite how it is attacked in Japanese media, that #MeToo is not an \"anti-man\" campaign, it is simply about anti-violence and anti-harassment. She also believes it is extremely important for men to call out behaviors in others such as sexual harassment or having sex with someone who is unconscious. Therefore, every person who is not committing sexual violence is part of the #MeToo movement, whether they are male or female.\n\nShiori Ito notes that the word \"rape\" is taboo in Japan, and is typically described with less threatening words such as saying an underage victim was \"tricked\" or a woman was \"violated\" to describe what happened, which Ito says contributes to the public not understanding the full extent of the problem. The legal age of consent in Japan is 13. She says women in Japan are regularly exposed to harassment from a young age, and recalls being groped by a man at a swimming pool when she was 10 only to be blamed herself for wearing a \"cute bikini\". She states that harassment on public transportation is commonplace, and she remembers dealing with it every day in high school.\n\nAs part of the #MeToo movement, went public alleging that she was raped by , a prominent TV journalist and acquaintance of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, an admission she says was unthinkable for a woman to do in Japan. Yamaguchi rejects her accusations, and says that sex was consensual. She said her experience with Japan's legal system showed her that victims of sex crimes were undermined and ignored. She called for the Japanese parliament to update Japan's laws regarding rape, which were over a century old. She explains how she could not get information on which hospital provides rape kits without going through a preliminary interview in person. When she went to the police, she was discouraged from filing a report, and informed her career would be ruined for no reason if she did this. She was told she did not act like a victim, and had to be interviewed by several officers, including one who made her reenact the rape with a dummy while he took pictures. Although they initially said they would arrest Yamaguchi, the case and charges were unexpectedly dropped. Ito then went to the media, but no one would take her story. When she spoke about the experience at a press conference, she made national news and immediately started receiving a negative backlash, hate mail, and threats. She has been unsuccessful in her attempts to have criminal charges brought against Yamaguchi, but as of 2018 she was still pursuing a civil case against him, which he was defending.\n\nIn 2018, Junichi Fukuda, a deputy finance minister in the Abe Administration, resigned after being accused of sexual harassment by his former subordinates.\n\nWhen #MeToo first went viral in October 2017, coverage was overshadowed in Kenya by a presidential election that was occurring the next week. However, the #MeToo movement started slowly spreading in Kenya after the election was over. In January 2018, it became especially popular after several new mothers alleged sexual misconduct at Kenyatta National Hospital, claiming that after giving birth they have been sexually assaulted when they went alone to breastfeed. There were also allegations that children in the hospital have been sexually assaulted. The hospital announced that the women were all lying, but in the future, women should stay together in groups in the hospital to prevent sexual assault. In response, hundreds of people began protesting in the streets of in Nairobi, Kenya, and an investigation was initiated by the health minister.\nFormer Mayor of Kathmandu, Keshav Sthapit has been accused of sexual harassment by two female office clerks of the Kathmandu Metropolitan Office, Rashmila Prajapati and Ujjwala Maharjan, as a part of the Me Too movement in Nepal.\n\nNigerian women and children get sexually assaulted every day and do not speak up about it due to fear of stigmatisation and prejudice. Official silence seems to surround sexual abuse of women in Nigeria, with the police frequently not taking sexual abuse reports seriously. As a result, men, who are often the perpetrators of sexual abuse go unchallenged, and unpunished owing to factors such as culture and popular beliefs. The custom of victim blaming is evident in testimonies rape and sexual abuse survivors. Nigerian cultures look down on the open discussions of sexual matters and desires. A great deal of the pressure to remain silent stems from socio-cultural values, customs and expectations about what constitutes socially accepted behaviours. Cultural socialisation recognises men as having a naturally stronger sexual drive, and speaks of women in terms of shame, lack of interest in sexual matters and as the to be conquered by a domineering man. Nigerians are socially nurtured and fed by oppressive patriarchal subjectivities that try to instil a sense of what is normal: sexually-speaking.\n\nThere is a factor of power influencing the slow growth of the movement in Nigeria. The country is a highly patriarchal society. Women have complained of how unimaginable it is in the country to report cases of harassment. Yet, sexual harassment is so prominent within the country that it is perceived as almost a right to men.\n\nShe had been assaulted three times by three different men. The first incident took place at age five. At that time, she was too young to understand what happened until she turned 18 when she encountered a similar incident again. She was at a party when a stranger forced her to have sex with him. Upon her refusal, he beat her up and raped her. Due to the stigma attached to being raped, she resorted to silence. The final experience took place at her workplace when her boss forcibly put his hand under her skirt. She still remained silent with the notion of not being believed and being judged by others. Realizing she could not remain silent and needed to make an impact, Uphopho currently works with her husband to break the \"culture of silence\" around abuse in Nigeria. They produced a play called \"Shattered\" which seeks to encourage victims of sexual abuse to speak up.\n\nIn Norway, under the hashtag \"#stilleforopptak\" (en. SilentforRecording), almost 600 actresses signed a petition and shared their stories through \"Aftenposten\" on November 16, 2017. This also inspired dancers and musicians to create their own petitions, \"#nårdansenstopper\" (en. WhentheDanceStops) signed by 792 dancers, and \"#nårmusikkenstilner\" (en. WhentheMusicQuiets) signed by over 1110 musicians.\n\n, the deputy leader of the Norwegian Labour Party and a former cabinet minister in Norway, resigned from his political positions on January 7, 2018 after being accused of an extensive pattern of sexual assault and sexual harassment of young women, and of taking advantage of his political positions to make unwanted sexual advances. The accusations came in the context of the Me Too debate and dominated Norwegian media for several weeks from December 2017. Accusations towards the now former leader of the Norwegian Young Conservatives, , also saw the light of day. In a Facebook post, wrote: \"I have been confronted with the fact that members of the Norwegian Young Conservatives on several occasions have reacted to my behaviour.\" It would later be revealed that the Conservative Party had received 15 alerts, whereas 10 of them regarded . , Norwegian politician for the Progress Party and member of the , had to take a break from office after it was discovered that he had shared pornographic images with a 14-year-old member of the Progress Party's Youth in addition to suggesting a threesome between him, a 30-year-old woman and a 15-year-old member of the Progress Party's Youth.\n\nAfter the death of 7-year-old Zainab Ansari in January 2018, who was raped and killed, there began a wave of declarations on Pakistan social media in #MeToo style. Sexual assault against minor in Pakistan will result in 14 to 20 year in prison and a fine of 1 millions rupees. Sheema Kermani, a classical dancer, has been called the leader of the Pakistan #MeToo movement. Former model Frieha Altaf and designer Maheem Khan shared stories of sexual abuse, and challenged Pakistan to be more proactive at stopping children from getting raped.\n\nProtests marked the premieres of \"Teefa in Trouble\" in Karachi and Lahore by activists who boycotted the film over the sexual harassment allegations leveled against Ali Zafar by Meesha Shafi, as well as at least half a dozen other women, earlier in the year. Zafar categorically denied the allegations and sued Shafi for defamation in the court where the case is ongoing. On the other hand, Shafi had also filed a harassment case against Zafar, which, itself, is an ongoing investigation.\n\nWith hashtags such as #BoycottAliZafar, #BoycottTeefainTrouble, and #TeefaisTrouble, a huge wave of activists built a momentum on social media ahead of the movie's premiere and subsequent screenings. A few major Pakistani media outlets outright ignored the demonstrations but other had to give in when protestors turned up at cinemas and police and other law enforcement agencies got involved.\n\nZafar reportedly also had to avoid his grand arrival at the film’s Karachi premiere and take a detour through the basement at Nueplex Cinemas in DHA, Karachi, in order to avoid the hoard of demonstrators who had gathered at the venue’s main entrance. During the protest, Feroze Khan, an actor and Zafar’s friend, returned from inside the cinema in an attempt to sway the protestors by telling them to support “Pakistani cinema”; however, he was turned away owing to his stance, to which he responded by making obscene gestures.\n\nReports had also emerged that the Nueplex Cinemas’ security manhandled some of the demonstrators and verbally abused multiple people at the protest.\n\nProtestors again showed up at Lahore’s CineStar for voice their anger and disappointment at both the promotion of the film of an alleged harasser and the celebrities pouring in to support him. The controversy deepened when, in one instance, the demonstrators asked Waleed Zaman, the creative director of women’s clothing brand Kayseria, the reason why he was backing the film, to which Zaman responded by saying: “We support sexual harassment of women.”\n\nZaman later posted and deleted multiple apologies on his social media accounts.\n\nAt yet another screening of the film at Nueplex Cinemas at Rashid Minhas Road, Karachi, protestors were allegedly held in the basement and beaten by the cinema’s private security, with various media reports confirming the incident. The demonstrators’ phones were also confiscated and the cinema's security allegedly tried to plant incriminating evidence in one of the protestors' bags in order to make their case appear stronger to police. However, they were let go later after the arrival of Rangers personnel.\n\nAt least four women leveled allegations of sexual misconduct against Junaid Akram, a prominent stand-up comedian and vlogger. Most of the accusers were girls in their teens and early twenties. Akram, too, denied \"all allegations of sexual harassment and sexual misconduct\", labeled them \"false\", and announced that he intended to pursue legal actions as he had \"already met my legal team\".\n\nAkram also clarified that his \"marital status is public information\".\n\nThe son of world-renowned late philanthropist Abdul Sattar Edhi, Faisal Edhi, who now heads the Edhi Foundation, was also accused of sexual misconduct by a former journalist., who said the man \"grabbed my hand tightly and tried to kind of pull me back into the van\". Faisal Edhi has denied the claims.\n\nThe Me Too movement has slowly picked in in the Philippines. In the culture of the Philippines, shaming and victim blaming are still present. They are afraid to say #MeToo because people do not believe them. Stories finally began to come about after actress Saab Magalona retweeted Alyssa Milano’s infamous quote. The accusations revolved around the entertainment industry as one of the bands, Jensen and the Flips was being brought up and they acknowledged their mistakes and apologized for their misconduct. Statistics from the Philippine Commission on Women from 2004 to 2013 revealed that only 629 cases had been recorded with the Philippine national police’s Women and Children Protection Center. This figure is believed to only be a fraction of the actual number of harassment offenses committed against women. While the movement has not been as big as in the U.S., other movements such as #BabaeAko have started as a result of #MeToo. #BabaeAko translates to “I am Women” and began in May after President Rodrigo Duterte declared that the next Chief Justice of Philippines could not be a woman. \n\nIn South Korea, the Me Too movement started to gain momentum as public prosecutor Seo Ji-hyeon shared her experience of assault by a high-level prosecutor and oppression of government authorities on national television on January 29, 2018. As part of her interview, Seo claimed that she was sexually assaulted by then Korean Ministry of Justice Policy Planning Director and former prosecutor Ahn Tae-geun at a funeral in 2010. She reported the activity to her superiors, however, her superiors covered up the incident and demoted her to Changwon Public Prosecutor's Office from her post in Seoul, in spite the fact that she was highly praised and awarded for her work performance by her superiors prior to the incident.\n\nAfter Seo's public admittance of sexual assault, the Me Too movement spread quickly to other areas of society. On February 13, 2018, several women, including former actress Kim Soo-hee and actress Hong Seon-joo, accused Lee Yountaek, a prominent and critically acclaimed stage director, of sexual harassment. Lee allegedly forced many women in his theater troupe, for 18 years, to massage his genital area prior to raping them. In addition, Kim Soo-hee stated that in 2005, Lee raped her and got her pregnant, for which she had an abortion. Moreover, actress Hong Seon-joo alleged that Lee forcibly penetrated her private part with sticks and wooden chopsticks, saying it will help her vocalization. As a result, Lee resigned from all his positions in the theater world and formally apologized to the victims. Lee admitted to all his crimes except the abortion.\nOn February 22, 2018, actor Oh Dal-su was accused of sexual harassment, for which he denied the accusation. However, February 26, further accusations against Oh were broadcast on \"JTBC Newsroom\", during which an interview was conducted with the woman who had accused Oh of sexual harassment and sexual assault. Moreover, on February 27's episode of JTBC's \"Newsroom\", actress Uhm Ji-young came forward to say that she was also sexually harassed by Oh in 2003. As a result, Oh pulled out of his upcoming TV series \"My Mister\".\n\nAlso on February 22, 2018, students in Cheongju University in Korea divulged the long-time crimes of professor and actor, Jo Min-ki. At first, he denied his crimes and dismissed them as rumors. However, as many other students, including fellow male students accusing him of such exploitation, he admitted to the allegations and apologized publicly. It was confirmed that Jo would be investigated by the police. On March 9, 2018, Jo committed suicide following his scandal, which in turn triggered backlash against the Me Too movement in South Korea.\n\nOn February 23, 2018, actress Choi Yul accused actor Cho Jae-hyun of assaulting her sexually. On February 24, Cho acknowledged the accusations.\n\nOn February 28, 2018, Ko Un, one of South Korea's most iconic and prominent poets and frequently mentioned Nobel laureate shortlist candidate, was also accused of sexual assault. First reported by the Dong-A Ilbo, poet Choi Young-mi's poem 'The Beast' suggests sexual assault by Ko approximately 20 years ago. The poem did not explicitly mention Ko, but the details of the frequently mentioned \"En\", which bears similarities to Ko's name - Ko Un - highly matches the accused poet's past. It also confirms the constant rumors and allegations that has been circulating in the past years that Ko has been using his privilege as a prominent poet to gain sexual advances and favors. As a result, Ko was pulled from textbooks and critically denounced by fellow literaries alike. Ko also resigned from various posts that he held, including his professorship at KAIST. On March 2, 2018 Ko offered his statement to The Guardian through UK publishers Bloodaxe Books, writing that \"he had ‘done nothing which might bring shame on my wife or myself.\" Despite the denial, more allegations are emerging against Ko.\n\nAs more public figures are being denounced across society, there has been an increased number of celebrities accused of unwanted sexual advances and activities in the Korean television and cinematic industries, including Choi Il-hwa and Kim Heung-gook.\n\nOn March 5, 2018, prominent Democratic Party of Korea presidential contender and former Chungcheongnam-do province Governor Ahn Hee-jung resigned from the governorship and announced his retirement from public service, as his former secretary Kim Ji-eun accused him of multiple cases of sexual assault. She claims that Ahn assaulted her multiple times and said that there is more than one victim inside the Governor's office. Ahn admitted about his sexual activity to his former secretary and apologized, however claimed that it was consensual. He was expelled from his party on the same day.\n\nA female executive of Hyundai resigned due to the movement.\n\nThe Spanish-language counterpart is . In Spain, on October 25 several Spanish actresses recognized in a report the existence of sexual harassment in Spanish cinema, among them , , , and . Also explaining cases of harassment suffered by them were the actress, scriptwriter and film director and . The Me Too movement found an echo in the ongoing uproar raised by La Manada case, crystallizing in numerous protests across the country.\n\nIn Sweden, several women used the hashtag to confront television presenter , whose shows on TV4 were cancelled on October 20, 2017, and journalist 's alleged abuse towards them. Carl XVI Gustaf, king of Sweden, said #MeToo is a positive movement that is good for society, and urged victims to come forward and share their stories.\n\nGender studies scholar and legal scholar wrote that the Swedish journalistic profession bore a large part of the blame in Sweden for the problems the Me Too debate had highlighted because Swedish journalists had systematically attacked critical discussion of and research on men's violence against women for over 20 years. Ellinor Skagegård in the Swedish newspaper wrote that during the Me Too campaign, it looks as if Lundgren was right in her research on men's violence against women.\n\nIn the wake of #MeToo, a Labour activist shared her 2011 story of being raped by a senior person in the Labour Party, but being warned that her career could be damaged if she reported the incident. In the UK, the Cabinet Office has launched an investigation in allegations that Parliament member Mark Garnier ordered a secretary to buy sex toys for his wife and mistress.\n\nA series of allegations concerning the involvement of British politicians in cases of sexual harassment and assault arose in October and November 2017, the 2017 Westminster sexual scandals. Allegations were prompted by discussions among junior staff employed in the UK Parliament at Westminster following the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations in Hollywood earlier in October, and the subsequent rise of Me Too. The journalists Jane Merrick and Kate Maltby made allegations against the Defence Minister Michael Fallon and de facto Deputy Prime Minister Damian Green, respectively. These led to the departures of both from Theresa May's cabinet, the latter after a two-month inquiry that also considered allegations that Green had lied about copious amounts of pornography found on his parliamentary computer. Both Merrick and Maltby cited the #MeToo movement as inspiring their allegations.\n\nRape statistics (2016-2017) from Rape Crisis Centers across England and Wales unfolds that every year, about 85,000 women and 12,000 men become victims of rape. \n\nIn January 2018, Channel 4 News's Cathy Newman conducted an interview on Canadian professor of psychology Jordan Peterson. Newman was criticized for the interview and Rachael Revesz of \"The Independent\" wrote that subsequent abuse targeted at Newman was a symbol of a backlash against the MeToo movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "44017873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44017873", "title": "Negative energy", "text": "Negative energy\n\nNegative energy is a concept used in physics to explain the nature of certain fields, including the gravitational field and various quantum field effects.\n\nIn more speculative theories, negative energy is involved in wormholes which may allow for time travel and warp drives for faster-than-light space travel.\n\nThe strength of the gravitational attraction between two objects represents the amount of gravitational energy in the field which attracts them towards each other. When they are infinitely far apart, the gravitational attraction and hence energy approach zero. As two such massive objects move towards each other, the motion accelerates under gravity causing an increase in the positive kinetic energy of the system. At the same time, the gravitational attraction - and hence energy - also increase in magnitude, but the law of energy conservation requires that the net energy of the system not change. This issue can only be resolved if the change in gravitational energy is negative, thus cancelling out the positive change in kinetic energy. Since the gravitational energy is getting stronger, this decrease can only mean that it is negative.\n\nA universe in which positive energy dominates will eventually collapse in a \"big crunch\", while an \"open\" universe in which negative energy dominates will either expand indefinitely or eventually disintegrate in a \"big rip\". In the zero-energy universe model (\"flat\" or \"Euclidean\"), the total amount of energy in the universe is exactly zero: its amount of positive energy in the form of matter is exactly cancelled out by its negative energy in the form of gravity.\n\nNegative energies and negative energy density are consistent with quantum field theory.\n\nIn quantum theory, the uncertainty principle allows the vacuum of space to be filled with virtual particle-antiparticle pairs which appear spontaneously and exist for only a short time before, typically, annihilating themselves again. Some of these virtual particles can have negative energy. Their behaviour plays a role in several important phenomena, as described below.\n\nIn the Casimir effect, two flat plates placed very close together restrict the wavelengths of quanta which can exist between them. This in turn restricts the types and hence number and density of virtual particle pairs which can form in the intervening vacuum and can result in a negative energy density. This causes an attractive force between the plates, which has been measured.\n\nVirtual particles with negative energy can exist for a short period. This phenomenon is a part of the mechanism involved in Hawking radiation by which black holes evaporate.\n\nIt is possible to arrange multiple beams of laser light such that destructive quantum interference suppresses the vacuum fluctuations. Such a squeezed vacuum state involves negative energy. The repetitive waveform of light leads to alternating regions of positive and negative energy.\n\nAccording to the theory of the Dirac sea, developed by Paul Dirac in 1930, the vacuum of space is full of negative energy. This theory was developed to explain the anomaly of negative-energy quantum states predicted by the Dirac equation.\n\nThe Dirac sea theory correctly predicted the existence of antimatter two years prior to the discovery of the positron in 1932 by Carl Anderson. However, the Dirac sea theory treats antimatter as a hole where there is the absence of a particle rather than as a real particle. Quantum field theory (QFT), developed in the 1930s, deals with antimatter in a way that treats antimatter as made of real particles rather than the absence of particles, and treats a vacuum as being empty of particles rather than full of negative-energy particles like in the Dirac sea theory.\n\nQuantum field theory has displaced the Dirac sea theory as a more popular explanation of these aspects of physics. Both the Dirac sea theory and quantum field theory are equivalent by means of a Bogoliubov transformation, so the Dirac sea can be viewed as an alternative formulation of quantum field theory, and is thus consistent with it.\n\nNegative energy appears in the speculative theory of wormholes, where it is needed to keep the wormhole open. A wormhole directly connects two locations which may be separated arbitrarily far apart in both space and time, and in principle allows near-instantaneous travel between them.\n\nA theoretical principle for a faster-than-light (FTL) warp drive for spaceships has been suggested, involving negative energy. The Alcubierre drive comprises a solution to Einstein's equations of general relativity, in which a bubble of spacetime is moved rapidly by expanding space behind it and shrinking space in front of it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28355034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28355034", "title": "Pinch (action)", "text": "Pinch (action)\n\nA pinch is a grip of a flexible object in which a portion is taken between two fingers, until it hurts, or something of resemblance and squeezed so the gripped portion of the object is lifted from its normal level. By extension, that which is taken in the grip is referred to as a \"pinch.\"\n\nWhen the fingers are used to perform a pinch, the action usually consists of the thumb and one other finger. The closer to the thumb the other finger is located, the stronger the pinch.\n\nThe term \"pinch\" often refers to the action being taken on the skin. A pinch of the skin displaces the skin and blood beneath from its natural position, and may inflict a minor degree of pain, which may increase if the amount of skin being pinched is smaller, but is usually tolerable to most.\n\nPinching the skin can result in pinch marks, a cutaneous condition, and when on the ears or in the genital region of male children may be suggestive of child abuse.\n\nPinching has the following uses in health care and medicine:\n\nA pinch can refer to the taking of a small amount of a powdery substance.\n\nIn cooking, a \"pinch\" refers to a small amount of an ingredient, such as salt or a spice, being taken to be placed within a recipe.\n\nSmall amounts of street drugs are sometimes referred to as a \"pinch.\"\n"}
{"id": "45579996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45579996", "title": "Police reform in the United States", "text": "Police reform in the United States\n\nThe history of law enforcement in the United States includes many efforts at police reform.\n\nEarly efforts at police reform often involved external commissions, such as the Wickersham Commission, that spelled out reforms but left implementation to the police, often with limited success.\n\nIn the 1960s, President Lyndon Johnson created the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice. The Commission's final report, issued in 1967, has been described as \"the most comprehensive evaluation of crime and crime control in the United States at the time\". It laid out reorganization plans for police departments and suggested a range of reforms. Several of the Commission's findings related to the poor treatment of juvenile offenders.\n\nA series of U.S. Supreme Court decisions under the Warren Court led to important changes in policing, with respect to civil rights and constitutional law. \"Mapp v. Ohio\" in 1961 and \"Miranda v. Arizona\" in 1966 were two highly influential court decisions. \"Mapp v. Ohio\" found that evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment protection against \"unreasonable searches and seizures\" may not be used in criminal prosecutions. \"Miranda v. Arizona\" required that criminal suspects must be informed of their right to consult with an attorney and of their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination prior to questioning by police. These decisions began to set national standards for policing.\n\nSpecial commissions, such as the Knapp Commission in New York City during the 1970s, have been used to bring about changes in law enforcement agencies. Civilian review boards (permanent external oversight agencies) have also been used as a means for improving police accountability. Civilian review boards tend to focus on individual complaints, rather than broader organizational issues that may result in long-term improvements.\n\nThe 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act authorized the United States Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division to bring civil (\"pattern or practice\") suits against local law enforcement agencies, to rein in abuses and hold agencies accountable. As a result, numerous departments have entered into consent decrees or memoranda of understanding, requiring the agencies to make organizational reforms. This approach shifts focus from individual officers to police organizations.\n\nThe Department of Justice also has a component called the Community Relations Service. Over the years, the Community Relations Service (CRS) has helped police departments and communities all over the country come to grips with the difficult task of maintaining law and order in a complex and changing multicultural society. Frequently, these efforts have involved minority citizens' complaints about police behavior, use of force, and hate groups.\n\nTo reduce the potential for violence, police executives must inculcate the values articulated by policy and procedure into two levels of the police department: the administrative level and the \"line\" or operational level. To accomplish the task of value-transition on one level without doing so on the other is futile, for no change in police behavior will result. In addition to the two levels of the organization which the police executive must address, two \"dimensions\" of law enforcement must also be addressed: the police culture and various community cultures. Thus, to effect change in police-community violence, police executives must take a multidimensional approach. Traditional approaches to reform have been one-dimensional, and have met with little success.\n\nSome law enforcement agencies in the United States in the early 2000s and 2010s began to emphasize de-escalation as a method of conflict resolution and obtaining voluntary compliance. There are also emphases on community policing to build relationships and community trust in law enforcement; the evidence-based policing approach of using of data to assist with decision-making; and the importance of civilian oversight of police work.\n\nIn the 2010s, a series of shootings of unarmed individuals by police officers correlated with calls for police and law enforcement reform, especially regarding the diversity of police officers and the treatment of minorities by the criminal justice system.\n\nIn the specific case of the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson in August 2014, an investigation by the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division concluded that, while there were not sufficient grounds to charge the police officer who shot Brown with a criminal offense, the Ferguson Police Department as a whole \"was routinely violating the constitutional rights of its black residents.\" Members of the Congressional Black Caucus indicated their appreciation of U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, and said that while many American police officers serve honorably, the problems found in Ferguson such as the use of fines to generate revenue instead of promote safety and justice, the use of excessive force, and unconstitutional practices may also be found in other communities in the United States.\n\nPresident Barack Obama created the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing. The commission issued a report on March 2, 2015, that made numerous recommendations. It did not call for all officers to wear body cameras, but did call for independent prosecutors to investigate civilian deaths in police custody or in officer-involved shootings.\n\nSue Rahr, when she was sheriff of King County, had introduced a new policing model called L.E.E.D. (Listen and Explain with Equity and Dignity) in 2011, which influenced her later work on the \"guardian model\" of training police candidates when she became the executive director of the Washington State Criminal Justice Training Commission; Obama appointed Rahr to the President's Task Force, where the \"guardian model\" received support as a desirable alternative to the \"warrior model\" of training officers. Rahr said in a U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee hearing that, \"When I talk about a guardian mindset... this is not a more kind and gentle way of doing the job. It's the opposite. We have increased firearms training and defensive tactics training, because we want to create strong, effective police officers who have the confidence that they don't [need] to behave in an intimidating manner. When someone has confidence, that helps deescalate as well. I think that when we were too focused on the boot camp method of training, it detracted away from our ability to train officers to be critical thinkers... What we have tried to shift towards is officer training, where you focus on critical thinking and confidence.\"\n\nA spokesperson for the American Civil Liberties Union said that the ideas in the report of the President's Commission \"will significantly improve the relationship between law enforcement and the communities they serve\" and that \"For us to see meaningful change, local authorities must first implement data collection systems to improve transparency, use of force policies that emphasize de-escalation, eradicate all forms of biased policing, and improve community engagement and oversight to provide accountability.\"\n\nIn response to the 2015 Baltimore protests, President Barack Obama said that \"It's in [the interest of police officers] to root out [police] who aren't doing the right thing, to hold accountable people when they do something wrong, instead of just the closing-ranks approach that all too often we see that ends up just feeding greater frustration and ultimately, I think, putting more police officers in danger.\" Obama also said, \"Unfortunately we've seen these police-related killings or deaths too often now, and obviously everybody is starting to recognize that this is not just an isolated incident in Ferguson or New York, but we've got some broader issues.\"\n\nPolice leaders responded on January 29, 2016, with \"Use of Force: Taking Policing to a Higher Standard\" (http://www.policeforum.org/assets/30%20guiding%20principles.pdf). According to \"The New York Times\", the new guideline call for police to use higher standards for use of force than those set by the U.S. Supreme Court (https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/30/nyregion/police-leaders-unveil-principles-intended-to-shift-policing-practices-nationwide.html?_r=0). \"This is a defining moment for us in policing,\" said Charles Ramsey, the recently-retired commissioner of the Philadelphia Police Department, according to The Washington Post (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2016/01/29/police-chiefs-consider-dramatic-reforms-to-officer-tactics-training-to-prevent-so-many-shootings/).\n\nOn July 7, 2016, after police shootings of black individuals in St Paul, Minnesota and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Obama said that \"When incidents like this occur, there's a big chunk of our fellow citizenry that feels as if it's because of the color of their skin, they are not being treated the same... This is not just a black issue, not just a Hispanic issue. This is an American issue that we all should care about.\" That same day, at a protest in Dallas, Texas, an attacker shot and killed multiple officers. On July 17, multiple officers were shot and killed in Baton Rouge amid tensions after the shooting of Alton Sterling. Obama and Black Lives Matter leaders condemned the violence. Obama said, \"We may not yet know the motives for this attack, but I want to be clear: there is no justification for violence against law enforcement. None. These attacks are the work of cowards who speak for no one. They right no wrongs. They advance no causes. The officers in Baton Rouge; the officers in Dallas – they were our fellow Americans, part of our community, part of our country, with people who loved and needed them, and who need us now – all of us – to be at our best.\"\n\nAnother dimension of police work receiving scrutiny in the 2010s is the interactions between police officers and individuals with mental illness. \"Twenty-five percent or more of people fatally shot by the police have had a mental disorder, according to various analyses.\" Experts in criminal justice say that funding for mental health services in many parts of the country is insufficient, so police are likely to encounter mentally ill people. In response to negative reactions from the public to high-profile violent interactions between police and mentally ill individuals, some police departments are increasing their specialized training and changing their tactics for their interactions with mentally ill people. For example, all officers in Portland, Oregon receive 40 hours of \"crisis intervention training\". Officers in some departments may specialize in this type of work, similar to how other officers specialize in SWAT, narcotics, or K-9.\n\nThe Oakland, California Police Department had three police chiefs in nine days amid revelations that some Oakland officers had shared inappropriate text messages and emails, that a police sergeant allowed his girlfriend to write his reports, and that there had been sexual misconduct among officers of multiple law enforcement agencies and at least one U.S. Department of Defense employee. Oakland's mayor, Libby Schaaf, said at a news conference, \"I am here to run a police department, not a frat house,\" and that she wants \"to root out what is clearly a toxic, macho culture.\" Peter Keane, a former San Francisco police commissioner and law professor at Golden Gate University, said, \"I think she can find someone who is really ruthless about instituting reforms of these kinds of things\" but \"You can't do any of this stuff with an internal candidate.\"\n\nOn June 27, 2016, a federal judge sentenced Paul Tanaka, a former second-in-command of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, to five years in prison. The Court found him guilty of conspiracy and of obstructing an FBI investigation of abuses at the county jails. Judge Percy Anderson said, \"Not only did (Tanaka) fail to identify and address problems in the jails, he exacerbated them.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that \"Prosecutors accused him of overseeing a scheme in which underlings tried to intimidate the lead FBI agent on the inquiry, concealed the whereabouts of an inmate who was working as a federal informant and pressured deputies not to cooperate with the investigation\".\n\nPolice chiefs of Chicago, San Francisco, Baltimore, and Oakland were fired or resigned in 2015 and 2016 after various controversies, often involving issues of race and allegations of use of excessive force by officers. Chicago's chief was fired after a judge ordered the city to make a video public that showed the shooting of an individual by a police officer, and after public criticism of the city's handling of the video. Baltimore's chief was fired after a citizen died in police custody in controversial circumstances, riots after the death, and amidst a crime surge.\n\nAfter the 2016 shooting of multiple officers in Dallas, Texas during what had been a peaceful protest, there were reports in the media that Dallas had one of the most progressive police departments in the nation. Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said, \"We did community policing before anybody, we had de-escalation training before anyone. We had this year the lowest number of police involved shootings than any major city in the country, and so it's very ironic that our police were protecting those that were exercising their freedom of speech and they lost their lives doing their jobs.\" Police Chief David Brown received widespread praise for his leadership in the aftermath of the shooting of his officers, although in the past he has faced criticism for the low pay of Dallas officers compared to neighboring jurisdictions. Brown addressed protestors in a speech, saying \"Become a part of the solution. Serve your community, don't be a part of the problem. We're hiring. Get off that protest line and put an application in. And we'll put you in your neighborhood and we will help you resolve some of the problems you're protesting about.\" Job applications for the police department rose significantly in the days following the officers' shootings and Brown's statement, and the department received demonstrations of public appreciation.\n\nPolicing issues\n\nPolicing practices and powers\n\nTypes of policing\n\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "58450904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58450904", "title": "Purplewashing", "text": "Purplewashing\n\nPurplewashing is a compound word modelled on the term \"whitewash\". In the context of feminism, it is used to describe a variety of political and marketing strategies aimed at promoting countries, people, companies and other organisations through an appeal to gender equality.\n\nThe term is commonly used to denounce the use of feminism to justify what is perceived as xenophobic or Islamophobic policies.\n\nThe word is also used to criticise how Western countries, that have not achieved complete gender equality, justify this by pointing out that other countries (often majority muslim) or cultures still have a worse quality of life for women.\n"}
{"id": "4025909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4025909", "title": "Relation construction", "text": "Relation construction\n\nIn logic and mathematics, relation construction and relational constructibility have to do with the ways that one relation is determined by an indexed family or a sequence of other relations, called the \"relation dataset\". The relation in the focus of consideration is called the \"faciendum\". The relation dataset typically consists of a specified relation over sets of relations, called the \"constructor\", the \"factor\", or the \"method of construction\", plus a specified set of other relations, called the \"faciens\", the \"ingredients\", or the \"makings\".\n\nRelation composition and relation reduction are special cases of relation constructions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1993025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1993025", "title": "RepRap project", "text": "RepRap project\n\nThe RepRap project started in England in 2005 as a University of Bath initiative to develop a low-cost 3D printer that can print most of its own components, but it is now made up of hundreds of collaborators world wide. RepRap is short for replicating\" rapid prototyper\".\n\nAs an open design, all of the designs produced by the project are released under a free software license, the GNU General Public License. \n\nDue to the ability of the machine to make some of its own parts, authors envisioned the possibility of cheap RepRap units, enabling the manufacture of complex products without the need for extensive industrial infrastructure. They intended for the RepRap to demonstrate evolution in this process as well as for it to increase in number exponentially. A preliminary study claimed that using RepRaps to print common products results in economic savings.\n\nRepRap was founded in 2005 by Dr Adrian Bowyer, a Senior Lecturer in mechanical engineering at the University of Bath in England. Funding was obtained from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.\n\nOn 13 September 2006, the RepRap 0.2 prototype successfully printed the first part of itself, which were subsequently used to replace an identical part originally created by a commercial 3D printer. On 9 February 2008, RepRap 1.0 \"Darwin\" successfully made at least one instance of over half its total rapid-prototyped parts. On 14 April 2008, possibly the first end-user item is made by a RepRap: a clamp to hold an iPod securely to the dashboard of a Ford Fiesta. By September of that year it was reported that at least 100 copies have been produced in various countries.\n\nIn April 2009 electronic circuit boards were produced automatically with a RepRap, using an automated control system and a swappable head system capable of printing both plastic and conductive solder. On 2 October 2009, the second generation design, called \"Mendel\", printed its first part. The Mendel's shape resembles a triangular prism rather than a cube. RepRap 2.0 \"Mendel\" was completed in October 2009. On 27 January 2010, the Foresight Institute announced the \"Kartik M. Gada Humanitarian Innovation Prize\" for the design and construction of an improved RepRap.\n\nThe third generation design, \"Huxley\", was officially named on 31 August 2010. Development is based on a miniaturized version of the Mendel hardware with 30% of the original print volume.\nWithin two years, RepRap and RepStrap building and usage were widespread within the tech, gadget, and engineering communities. In 2012, the first successful Delta design, Rostock, had a radically different design. The latest iterations used OpenBeams, wires (typically Dyneema or Spectra fishing lines) instead of belts, and so forth, which also represented some of the latest trends in RepRaps.\n\nIn early January 2016 RepRapPro (short for \"RepRap Professional\", and one commercial arm of the RepRap project in the UK) announced that they are to cease trading on 15 January 2016. The reason given was congestion of the market for low-cost 3D printers and the inability to expand in that market. RepRapPro China continues to operate.\n\nAs the project was designed by Dr Bowyer to encourage evolution, many variations have been created. As an open source project designers are free to make modifications and substitutions, but they must reshare their improvements.\n\nThere are many RepRap printer designs including:\n\nRepRap has been conceived as a complete replication system rather than simply a piece of hardware. To this end the system includes computer-aided design (CAD) in the form of a 3D modeling system and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) software and drivers that convert RepRap users' designs into a set of instructions to the RepRap hardware that turns them into physical objects.\n\nInitially two different CAM toolchains had been developed for the RepRap. The first, simply titled \"RepRap Host\", was written in Java by lead RepRap developer Adrian Bowyer. The second, \"Skeinforge\", was written independently by Enrique Perez. Both are complete systems for translating 3D computer models into G-code, the machine language that commands the printer.\n\nLater, other programs like slic3r, pronterface, Cura, were created. Recently, Franklin firmware was created to allow RepRap 3-D printers to be used as general purposes 3-D robots in addition to 3-D printing (e.g. milling, fluid handling, etc.)\n\nThe closed source KISSlicer and repetier host are also used.\n\nFree and open-source 3-D modeling programs like Blender, OpenSCAD, and FreeCAD are preferred 3-D modeling programs in general for the RepRap community but, virtually any CAD or 3D modeling program can be used with the RepRap, as long as it is capable of producing STL files.(slic3r also supports .obj and .amf files). Thus, content creators make use of any tools they are familiar with, whether they are commercial CAD programs, such as SolidWorks and Autodesk AutoCAD, Autodesk Inventor, Autodesk 123D Design, Tinkercad, or SketchUp along with the libre software.\n\nRepRaps print objects from ABS, Polylactic acid (PLA), Nylon (possibly not all extruders capable), HDPE, TPE and similar thermoplastics.\n\nPolylactic acid (PLA) has the engineering advantages of high stiffness, minimal warping, and an attractive translucent colour. It is also biodegradable and plant-derived.\n\nThe mechanical properties of RepRap printed PLA and ABS have been tested and have been shown to be equivalent to the tensile strengths of proprietary printers.\n\nUnlike in most commercial machines, RepRap users are encouraged to experiment with printing new materials and methods, and to publish their results. Methods for printing novel materials (such as ceramics) have been developed this way. In addition, several RecycleBots have been designed and fabricated to convert waste plastic, such as shampoo containers and milk jugs, into inexpensive RepRap filament. There is some evidence that using this approach of distributed recycling is better for the environment and can be useful for creating \"fair trade filament\".\n\nIn addition, 3D printing products themselves at the point of consumption by the consumer has also been shown to be better for the environment.\n\nThe RepRap project has identified polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) as a potentially suitable support material to complement its printing process, although massive overhangs can be made with using thin layers of the primary printing media as support, which are mechanically removed afterwards.\n\nPrinting electronics is a major goal of the RepRap project so that it can print its own circuit boards. Several methods have been proposed:\n\n\nUsing a MIG welder as a print head a RepRap deltabot stage can be used to print metals like steel.\n\nThe RepRap concept can also be applied to a milling machine and to laser welding.\n\nAlthough the aim of the project is for RepRap to be able to autonomously construct many of its own mechanical components in the near future using fairly low-level resources, several components such as sensors, stepper motors, or microcontrollers are currently non-replicable using the RepRap's 3D printing technology and therefore have to be produced independently of the RepRap self-replicating process. The goal is to asymptotically approach 100% replication over a series of evolutionary generations. As one example, from the onset of the project, the RepRap team has explored a variety of approaches to integrating electrically-conductive media into the product. The future success of this initiative should open the door to the inclusion of connective wiring, printed circuit boards, and possibly even motors in RepRapped products. Variations in the nature of the extruded, electrically-conductive media could produce electrical components with different functions from pure conductive traces, not unlike what was done in the sprayed-circuit process of the 1940s named Electronic Circuit Making Equipment (ECME), described in the article on its designer, John Sargrove. Printed electronics is a related approach. Another non-replicable component is the threaded rods for the linear motions. A current research area is in using replicated Sarrus linkages to replace them.\n\nThe \"Core team\" of the project has included:\n\n\nThe stated goal of the RepRap project is to produce a pure self-replicating device not for its own sake, but rather to put in the hands of individuals anywhere on the planet, for a minimal outlay of capital, a desktop manufacturing system that would enable the individual to manufacture many of the artifacts used in everyday life. From a theoretical viewpoint, the project is attempting to prove the hypothesis that \"Rapid prototyping and direct writing technologies are sufficiently versatile to allow them to be used to make a von Neumann universal constructor\".\n\nRepRap technology has great potential in educational applications, according to some scholars. RepRaps have already been used for an educational mobile robotics platform. Some authors have claimed that RepRaps offer an unprecedented \"revolution\" in STEM education. The evidence for such claims comes from both the low cost ability for rapid prototyping in the classroom by students, but also the fabrication of low-cost high-quality scientific equipment from open hardware designs forming open-source labs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2653043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2653043", "title": "Reverse chronology", "text": "Reverse chronology\n\nReverse chronology is a method of story-telling whereby the plot is revealed in reverse order.\n\nIn a story employing this technique, the first scene shown is actually the conclusion to the plot. Once that scene ends, the penultimate scene is shown, and so on, so that the final scene the viewer sees is the first chronologically.\n\nMany stories employ flashback, showing prior events, but whereas the scene order of most conventional films is A-B-C-etc., a film in reverse chronology goes Z-Y-X-etc.\n\nAs a hypothetical example, if the fairy tale \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" was told using reverse chronology, the opening scene would depict Jack chopping the beanstalk down and killing the giant. The next scene would feature Jack being discovered by the giant and climbing down the beanstalk in fear of his life. Later, we would see Jack running into the man with the infamous magic beans, then, at the end of the film, being sent off by his mother to sell the cow.\n\nThe unusual nature of this method means it is only used in stories of a specific nature. For example, \"Memento\" features a man with anterograde amnesia, meaning he is unable to form new memories. The film parallels the protagonist's perspective by unfolding in reverse chronological order, leaving the audience as ignorant of the events that occurred prior to each scene (which, played in reverse chronological order, will not be revealed until later) as the protagonist is.\n\nIn the film \"Irréversible,\" an act of homicidal violence takes place at the start of the movie (i. e., it is the final event to take place). During the remainder of the film we learn not only that the violence is an act of vengeance, but what exactly is being avenged. The film was highly controversial for its graphic nature; had the scenes been shown in chronological order, this violent content would make it a simple, and pointlessly brutal, revenge movie. However, as it is, told in reverse, the audience is made to consider the exact consequences of each action, and there is often \"more than meets the eye.\"\n\nThe epic poem \"Aeneid\", written by Virgil in the 1st century BC, uses reverse chronology within scenes. In \"The Three Apples\", a murder mystery in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\", the middle part of the story shows a flashback of events leading up to the discovery of a dead body at the beginning of the story. The action of W. R. Burnett's novel, \"Goodbye to the Past\" (1934), moves continually from 1929 to 1873. \"The Long View\" (1956) by Elizabeth Jane Howard describes a marriage in reverse chronology from 1950s London back to its beginning in 1926. Edward Lewis Wallant uses flashbacks in reverse chronology in \"The Human Season\" (1960). The novel \"Christopher Homm\" (1965), by C. H. Sisson, is also told in reverse chronology.\n\nPhilip K. Dick, in his 1967 novel \"Counter-Clock World\", describes a future in which time has started to move in reverse, resulting in the dead reviving in their own graves (\"old-birth\"), living their lives in reverse, eventually ending in returning to the womb, and splitting into an egg and a sperm during copulation between a recipient woman and a man. The novel was expanded from Dick's short story \"Your Appointment Will Be Yesterday\", first published in the August 1966 edition of Amazing Stories.\n\nMartin Amis's 1991 novel \"Time's Arrow\" tells the story of a man who, it seems, brings dead people to life. Eventually it is revealed that the story is being seen backwards, and he was a doctor at Auschwitz who brought death to live people. He escaped to the United States, and the novel starts with his death and ends with his birth. Amis writes in the Afterword that he had a \"certain paragraph\" from Kurt Vonnegut's \"Slaughterhouse Five\" (1969) in mind. As he waits to be taken by aliens to the planet Tralfamadore, the protagonist, Billy Pilgrim, watches a war movie backwards. American planes full of holes fly backwards as German planes suck bullets from them; bombers take their bombs back to base where they are returned to the States, reduced to ore and buried. The American fliers became high school kids again, and, Billy guesses, Hitler ultimately returns to babyhood.\n\nIain Banks's novel \"Use of Weapons\" interweaves two parallel stories, one told in standard chronology and one in reverse, both concluding at a critical moment in the main character's life.\n\nJulia Alvarez's novel \"How the García Girls Lost Their Accents\" opens in 1989 with one of the characters returning to her native Dominican Republic. The story of why the family left and their attempts to succeed in New York are told in reverse chronological order, with the last events happening in 1956.\n\nA number of plays have employed this technique. George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's 1934 play, \"Merrily We Roll Along\", is told in reverse order, as is the Harold Pinter play \"Betrayal\" (1978). Kaufman and Hart's play was adapted as a musical comedy by Stephen Sondheim in 1981, and Pinter's play was made into a film in 1983.\n\nIn 1927, Jean Epstein's \"La glace à trois faces\" (\"The Three Sided Mirror\") features a sequence where the events happen in reverse, beginning with the protagonist's exit from a room until the viewer sees the entrance. The Czech comedy \"Happy End\" (1966) is a farce which starts with a guillotined man finding his head popped back on his shoulders and ends with him as a new-born being pushed back into his mother's womb. Atom Egoyan, influenced by Pinter's plays, tells the story of \"The Sweet Hereafter\" (1997) in reverse chronology, with the first scene of the film set in 1977 and the last in 1968. The technique was later employed in \"Peppermint Candy\" (2000), by South Korean director Lee Chang-dong; in \"Memento\" (2000), a mystery directed by Christopher Nolan about short term memory loss; and in Jean-Luc Godard's short film \"De l'origine du XXIe siècle pour moi\" (2000). In \"Irréversible\" (2002), the technique is used so thoroughly that the end credits are not only shown at the beginning of the movie, but they roll \"down\" the screen, rather than upwards as is familiar.\n\nThe first several scenes in 2003's film \"Identity\", starring John Cusack, occur in reverse order.\n\nThe 2004 film \"5x2\", directed by François Ozon, tells the story of a relationship between two people in five episodes using reverse chronology.\n\nIn \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\" (2004), a main substory is told in reverse.\n\n\"Coup de Sang\", a French film by Jean Marboeuf (2006), uses limited reverse chronology. The film begins with the revelation that the main character will commit a murder one week from the next scene, although it is not revealed who will be killed or why.\n\nIn the 2007 movie \"P.S. I Love You\", the scenes in which Gerry Kennedy (Gerard Butler) meets and courts Holly (Hilary Swank) are shown in reverse.\n\nIn the 2010 Tamil movie, \"Manmadan Ambu\", the song \"Neela Vaanam\" (visuals inspired by Coldplay's \"The Scientist\") is shown in a reverse sequence.\n\nThe made-for-television drama \"\"Two Friends\"\" (1986), by Jane Campion, and the 1997 episode, \"The Betrayal\", of the hit sitcom \"Seinfeld\", employs the technique. The \"Seinfeld\" episode is a take-off of the Harold Pinter play \"Betrayal\" and has a character named \"Pinter.\" \"Redrum\", a 2000 episode of \"The X-Files,\" uses the technique in focusing on a character experiencing the events in reverse along with the audience. The 2002 \"ER\" episode \"Hindsight\" uses reverse chronology to illustrate the events leading to traumatic car accident. A 1997 episode, \"\", which writer Kenneth Biller claimed was based on a Martin Amis novel \"Time's Arrow\", also features a character experiencing the events in reverse along with the audience. The \"Sealab 2021\" episode \"Shrabster\" is also in reverse order. For a few seasons, the revived \"Doctor Who\" had an extensive storyline focusing on a relationship between the Doctor and his companions' daughter (River Song) from the future based on \"opposite timelines\" (i.e., as the Doctor was travelling through time on one path, River was travelling on an opposite path) causing them to interact in opposite chronological order. In 2017, the British tv mini-series \"Rellik\" (Killer backwards) tells a story about a serial killer in backwards order. In 2018, the episode \"Once Removed\", from the series \"Inside No. 9\" uses reverse chronology to tell a dark story about a family who is moving house, and the murder that subsequently begins. Also from 2018, the second installment of the FX anthology series \"American Crime Story\" focuses on , employing reverse chronology through the course of several episodes to explore the background of Versace's killer Andrew Cunanan.\n\nThe story \"The Time Eater\" from issue 40 of the comic \"Vampirella\", scripted by Jack Butterworth and published in 1975, included the concept of human lives running backwards. People were shown to be exhumed, reunited with families, separated from their spouses in order to attend school, and finally returned to the womb. Dialogue was reversed also. Alan Moore's 1983 short story \"The Reversible Man\" from issue 308 of the comic \"2000AD\" told an ordinary man's life backwards, using the same concept as Butterworth but recasting it as a first-person narrative. Brian K. Vaughan wrote an issue of the ongoing Midnighter series told in reverse chronology. The issue explored the fact that the character Midnighter has the ability to calculate millions of possible scenarios for any given situation. The issue does not have the scenes in reverse order, but rather the individual pages run backwards.\n\nIssue 43 of Bongo's \"Simpsons Comics\" is told in reverse order: the story opens with a depiction of a crane lifting a crashed car out of a lake; each subsequent scene (which lasts for one page) carries a caption informing the reader that it took place, for instance, \"20 minutes earlier\". The penultimate page jumps back thirty years and shows Homer Simpson as a child\n\nThe 2007 anime television series \"Touka Gettan\" employed entirely this narrative method. All 26 episodes were aired in chronologically reverse order, with the first episode being the ending of the story while the last episode being the beginning.\n\nThe lyrics to \"All Along the Watchtower\", written by Bob Dylan, are, he says, \"in a rather reverse order\"; indeed, the final verse begins with the words \"All along the watchtower\", and if reversed, the verses would tell the story in the correct order.\n\nThe lyrics to \"Apparition. Apparitions.\" by Trophy Scars describe the events leading up to a woman's suicide in reverse order, beginning with her death and ending with her initial romance with her boyfriend.\n\nThe song \"One Thing Leads to Another\" by the Pet Shop Boys (on a limited release of their 1993 album \"Very\") describes the events leading up to a man's death in reverse order.\n\nMultiple music videos, including Coldplay's \"The Scientist\" use reverse chronology in which a scene plays backwards while someone sings normally. This is done by filming the video chronologically but getting the actor to sing the lyrics backwards. The music video for Enigma's \"Return to Innocence\" uses reverse chronology showing a man's life, beginning with his death as an old man and ending with his baptism as an infant. The music video for Linkin Park's \"Bleed It Out\" also uses the same method, whereas the band performs normally, but everything else is reversed. In 2016, Malaysian Singer-Songwriter Yuna uses reverse chronology in her music video \"Lanes\".\n\nThe events of the song \"Reverse\" by SomeKindaWonderful, as said in the title itself, are told in reverse chronology.\n\nThe lyrics in \"Rewind\" by NaS also tell a story in reverse chronology, with some of the dialogue even being in reverse order.\n\n\"Good Mistake\" Album by Bahram Nouraei is the first Iranian concept album ever made inspired by reverse chronology as the storytelling method.\n\nThere have also been several discussions as to how the picturisation of Neela Vaanam \"Manmadan Ambu\" (sung by Kamal Haasan himself) has been slightly inspired from official video of Coldplay's The Scientist. The whole song has been depicted in such a way so as to highlight the events that led to the death of Mannar's (Kamal's character) French wife Juliet, in reverse.\n\nThe announcement trailer of 2011 video game, \"Dead Island\", also present in reverse chronological order with flash of chronological action edited into the whole video.\n\n"}
{"id": "11607367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11607367", "title": "Roboexotica", "text": "Roboexotica\n\nRoboexotica (sometimes spelled: \"Roböxotica\") is an annual festival and conference where scientists, researchers, computer experts and artists from all over the world build \"cocktail robots\" and discuss technological innovation, futurology and science fiction.\nRoboexotica is also an ironic attempt to criticize techno-triumphalism and to dissect technological hypes.\n\nThe festival is co-produced by Shifz and monochrom, two Vienna-based art collectives, and supported by the 'Bureau for Philosophy' (of the Department of Philosophy, University of Vienna). The festival is usually held in the end of November or early December.\n\nThe annual international festival consists of an exhibition, a conference, social events, and the ACRA (Annual Cocktail Robot Award).\n\nThe exhibition presents robots that can mix cocktails, serve cocktails, consume cocktails, have bar conversations, light or smoke cigarettes or manage to impress the jury with (Quote Roboexotica website) \"other achievements in the sector of cocktail culture\".\nIn 1999, Magnus Wurzer and Chris Veigl (of Shifz) started to present a self-made cocktail robot at the small independent Viennese culture and art space VEKKS. The group monochrom (Johannes Grenzfurthner, Günther Friesinger, Franz Ablinger) first participated with performances and presenting machines, but in 2002 monochrom teamed up with Shifz as organizers and the small event became a big international festival presented at Vienna's Museumsquartier and several other locations in the Vienna metro area. Roboexotica presents around 20 machines every year and draws around 3000 guests per event. \n\nRoboexotica was presented at Cyberpipe (Ljubljana) in 2006, at Maker Faire (San Francisco) and RoboGames (San Francisco) in 2007.\n\nIn 2008 a catalogue titled Roboexotica was published, celebrating the 10th anniversary of the festival. The book features reflections on the festival and presents statements by former participants including Cory Doctorow, Dorkbot's Doueglas Repetto, Bre Pettis, V. Vale, Karen Marcelo of Survival Research Laboratories or RoboGames' David Calkins and Simone Davalos.\n\nA smaller show called \"Roboexotica USA\" was held in San Francisco in 2008 and 2009. It was organized by monochrom and \"Shifz\" and was well received by the press. In 2010 it was decided to rename the San Francisco-based cocktail robot event \"Barbot,\" and Barbot events were held in San Franicsco in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.\n\nChase Masterson was special guest star at the 20th anniversary edition of cocktail robot festival Roboexotica in Vienna and performed a live jazz set for \"robots and humans\".\n\n\"Roboexotica\" has been featured on Slashdot, Wired News, Reuters, \"New York Times\" and blogs like Boing Boing and New Scientist.\n\n"}
{"id": "18767352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18767352", "title": "Shape theory (mathematics)", "text": "Shape theory (mathematics)\n\nShape theory is a branch of topology, which provides a more global view of the topological spaces than homotopy theory. The two coincide on compacta dominated homotopically by finite polyhedra. Shape theory associates with the Čech homology theory while homotopy theory associates with the singular homology theory.\n\nShape theory was reinvented, further developed and promoted by the Polish mathematician Karol Borsuk in 1968. Actually, the name \"shape theory\" was coined by Borsuk.\n\nBorsuk lived and worked in Warsaw, hence the name of one of the fundamental examples of the area, the Warsaw circle. This is a compact subset of the plane produced by \"closing up\" a topologist's sine curve with an arc.\n\nBorsuk's shape theory was generalized onto arbitrary (non-metric) compact spaces, and even onto general categories, by Włodzimierz Holsztyński in year 1968/1969, and published in Fund. Math. 70 , 157-168, y.1971 (see Jean-Marc Cordier, Tim Porter, (1989) below). This was done in a \"continuous style\", characteristic for the Čech homology rendered by Samuel Eilenberg and Norman Steenrod in their monograph \"Foundations of Algebraic Topology\". Due to the circumstance, Holsztyński's paper was hardly noticed, and instead a great popularity in the field was gained by a much less advanced (more naive) paper by Sibe Mardešić and Jack Segal, which was published a little later, Fund. Math. 72, 61-68, y.1971. Further developments are reflected by the references below, and by their contents.\n\nFor some purposes, like dynamical systems, more sophisticated invariants were developed under the name strong shape. Generalizations to noncommutative geometry, e.g. the shape theory for operator algebras have been found.\n\n"}
{"id": "23934029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23934029", "title": "Skew coordinates", "text": "Skew coordinates\n\nA system of skew coordinates is a curvilinear coordinate system where the coordinate surfaces are not orthogonal, in contrast to orthogonal coordinates.\n\nSkew coordinates tend to be more complicated to work with compared to orthogonal coordinates since the metric tensor will have nonzero off-diagonal components, preventing many simplifications in formulas for tensor algebra and tensor calculus. The nonzero off-diagonal components of the metric tensor are a direct result of the non-orthogonality of the basis vectors of the coordinates, since by definition:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the metric tensor and formula_3 the (covariant) basis vectors.\n\nThese coordinate systems can be useful if the geometry of a problem fits well into a skewed system. For example, solving Laplace's equation in a parallelogram will be easiest when done in appropriately skewed coordinates.\n\nThe simplest 3D case of a skew coordinate system is a Cartesian one where one of the axes (say the \"x\" axis) has been bent by some angle formula_4, staying orthogonal to one of the remaining two axes. For this example, the \"x\" axis of a Cartesian coordinate has been bent toward the \"z\" axis by formula_4, remaining orthogonal to the \"y\" axis.\n\nLet formula_6, formula_7, and formula_8 respectively be unit vectors along the formula_9, formula_10, and formula_11 axes. These represent the covariant basis; computing their dot products gives the following components of the metric tensor:\n\nwhich are quantities that will be useful later on.\n\nThe contravariant basis is given by\n\nThe contravariant basis isn't a very convenient one to use, however it shows up in definitions so must be considered. We'll favor writing quantities with respect to the covariant basis.\n\nSince the basis vectors are all constant, vector addition and subtraction will simply be familiar component-wise adding and subtraction. Now, let\n\nwhere the sums indicate summation over all values of the index (in this case, \"i\" = 1, 2, 3). The contravariant and covariant components of these vectors may be related by\n\nso that, explicitly,\n\nThe dot product in terms of contravariant components is then\n\nand in terms of covariant components\n\nBy definition, the gradient of a scalar function \"f\" is\n\nwhere formula_25 are the coordinates \"x\", \"y\", \"z\" indexed. Recognizing this as a vector written in terms of the contravariant basis, it may be rewritten:\n\nThe divergence of a vector formula_27 is\n\nand of a tensor formula_29\n\nThe Laplacian of \"f\" is\n\nand, since the covariant basis is normal and constant, the vector Laplacian is the same as the componentwise Laplacian of a vector written in terms of the covariant basis.\n\nWhile both the dot product and gradient are somewhat messy in that they have extra terms (compared to a Cartesian system) the advection operator which combines a dot product with a gradient turns out very simple:\n\nwhich may be applied to both scalar functions and vector functions, componentwise when expressed in the covariant basis.\n\nFinally, the curl of a vector is\n"}
{"id": "550013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550013", "title": "Soup kitchen", "text": "Soup kitchen\n\nA soup kitchen, meal center, or food kitchen is a place where food is offered to the hungry usually for free or sometimes at a below market price. Frequently located in lower-income neighborhoods, soup kitchens are often staffed by volunteer organizations, such as church or community groups. Soup kitchens sometimes obtain food from a food bank for free or at a low price, because they are considered a charity, which makes it easier for them to feed the many people who require their services.\n\nMany historical and some modern soup kitchens serve only soup (hence its name) with perhaps some bread. But several establishments which title themselves as a \"soup kitchen\" also serve other types of food, so social scientists sometimes discuss them together with similar hunger relief agencies that provide more varied hot meals, like food kitchens and meal centers.\n\nWhile societies have been using various methods to share food with the hungry for millennia, the first soup kitchens in the modern sense may have emerged in the late 18th century. By the late 19th century, they were to be found in several American and European cities. In the United States and elsewhere, they became more prominent in the 20th century during the Great Depression. With the improved economic conditions that followed World War II, soup kitchens became less widely used, at least in the advanced economies. In the United States there was a resurgence in the use of soup kitchens following the cutbacks in welfare that were implemented in the early 1980s.\n\nIn the 21st century, the use of soup kitchens expanded in both the United States and Europe, following lasting global increases in the price of food which began in late 2006. Demand for their services grew as the Great Recession began to worsen economic conditions for those on low income. In much of Europe, demand further increased after the introduction of austerity-based economic policies from 2010.\n\nThe earliest occurrences of soup kitchens are difficult to identify. Throughout history, societies have invariably recognized a moral obligation to feed the hungry. The philosopher Simone Weil wrote that feeding the hungry when one has resources to do so is the most obvious obligation of all. She also said that as far back as Ancient Egypt, it was believed that people needed to show they had helped the hungry in order to justify themselves in the afterlife. Soup has long been one of the most economical and simple ways to supply nutritious food to large numbers of people.\n\nSocial historian Karl Polanyi wrote that before markets became the world's dominant form of economic organisation in the 19th century, most human societies would generally either starve all together or not at all; because, communities would naturally share their food. As markets began to replace the older forms of resource allocation such as Redistribution, Reciprocity, and Autarky, society's overall level of food security would typically rise. But food insecurity could become worse for the poorest section of society, and the need arose for more formal methods for providing them with food. Christian churches traditionally provided food for the hungry since Late antiquity, with the nourishment mainly provided in the form of soup.\n\nThe earliest modern soup kitchens were established by the inventor Sir Benjamin Thompson, who was employed as an aide-de-camp to the Elector of Bavaria in the 1790s. Thompson was an American loyalist refugee from New England, and an inventor who was ennobled by Bavaria as Count Rumford. The Count was a prominent advocate of hunger relief, writing pamphlets that were widely read across Europe.\n\nHis message was especially well received in Great Britain, where he had previously held a senior government position for several years and was known as \"the Colonel\". An urgent need had recently arisen in Britain for food relief, due to its leading role in driving the Industrial Revolution. While technological development and economic reforms were rapidly increasingly overall prosperity, conditions for the poorest were often made worse, as traditional ways of life were disrupted. In the closing years of the 18th century, soup kitchens run on the principles pioneered by Rumford were to be found throughout England, Wales, and Scotland, with about 60,000 people being fed by them daily in London alone.\n\nWhile soup kitchens were generally well regarded, they did attract criticism from some, for encouraging dependency, and sometimes on a local level for attracting vagrants to an area. In Britain they were made illegal, along with other forms of aid apart from workhouses, by the Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834.\n\nDuring the Irish famine of the 19th century, in which as many as one million people may have died, the British government passed the Temporary Relief Act (also known as the Soup Kitchen Act) in February 1847. The Act amended the restrictions on the provision of aid outside the workhouses for the duration of the famine, and expressly allowed the establishment of soup kitchens in Ireland to relieve pressure from the overstretched Poor Law system, which was proving to be totally inadequate in coping with the disaster.\n\nProhibition against soup kitchens was soon relaxed on mainland Britain too, though they never again became as prevalent as they had been in the early 19th century, partly as from the 1850s onwards, economic conditions generally began to improve even for the poorest. For the first few decades after the return of soup kitchens to mainland Britain, they were at first heavily regulated, run by groups like the Charity Organization Society. Even in the early 20th century, campaigning journalists like Bart Kennedy would criticize them for their long queues, and for the degrading questions staff would ask the hungry before giving out any soup.\n\nThe concept of soup kitchens spread to the United States from Ireland after the Great famine and the concomitant wave of Irish emigration to the New World. The earliest ones were established in the 1870s. A sharp rise in the number of hungry people resulting from an industrial recession coincided with the success of the AICP, and the American branch of the \"Charity Organization Society\" in getting various forms of \"outdoor relief\" banned. This resulted in civil society establishing soup kitchens, to help feed those of the poor who did not wish to subject themselves to the regimented organisation of the Almshouses favored by the charitable societies.\n\nIt is believed the term “breadline” entered the popular lexicon in the 1880s. It was during those years that a noteworthy bakery in New York City’s Greenwich Village, “Fleischmann Model Viennese Bakery,” instituted a policy of distributing unsold baked goods to the poor at the end of their business day. \nBy the late 19th century soup kitchens were to be found in several US cities.\nThe concept of soup kitchens hit the mainstream of United States consciousness during the Great Depression. One soup kitchen in Chicago was even sponsored by American mobster Al Capone in an effort to clean up his image.\n\nWith the improved economic conditions that followed the Second World War, there was less need for soup kitchens in advanced economies. However, with the scaling back of welfare provision in the 1980s under president Reagan's administration, there was a rapid rise in activity from grass roots hunger relief agencies such as soup kitchens. According to a comprehensive government survey completed in 2002, over 90% of food banks, about 80% of emergency kitchens, and all known food rescue organisations, were established in the US after 1981. Presently, Catholic Charities USA of Colorado Springs, Colorado, founded by The Sisters of Loretto, provides food to upwards of 600-700 persons or more per day, and has been doing so since 1985.\n\nUse of soup kitchens has grown rapidly across the world, following the lasting global inflation in the cost of food that began in late 2006. The \"global financial crisis\" further increased the demand for soup kitchens, as did the introduction of austerity policies that have become common in Europe since 2010. Modern soup kitchens are generally well regarded, though like their historical counterparts they are sometimes disliked by local residents for lowering the tone of a neighborhood.\n\nThe world's largest soup kitchen run at the Sikhs' holiest shrine, Golden Temple in Punjab, India, which according to \"Croatian Times\" can serve free food for up to 100,000 - 300,000 people every day. At the Langar (Kitchen), food is served to all visitors regardless of faith, religion, or background. Only vegetarian food is served and people eat together as equals. The institution of the Sikh langar, a community run free kitchen, was started by the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak. It was designed to uphold the principle of equality between all people regardless of religion, caste, colour, creed, age, gender, or social status. In addition to the ideals of equality, the tradition of langar expresses the ethics of sharing, community, inclusiveness, and oneness of humankind. Every Sikh shrine has a religiously sanctioned moral and humanitarian obligation to serve and provide hospitality, provisions, nourishments and meals to any man, regardless of race, creed, religious profession, identification, or affiliation.\n\nIn some countries such as Great Britain, increased demand from hungry people has largely been met by food banks, operating on the \"front line\" model, where they give food out directly to the hungry. In the USA, such establishments are called \"food pantries\"; Americans generally reserve the term \"food bank\" for entities which perform a warehouse-like function, distributing food to front line agencies, but not directly to the hungry themselves. Instead of providing hot meals, front line food banks and pantries hand out packages of groceries so that recipients can cook themselves several meals at home. This is often more convenient for the end user. They can receive food for up to a dozen or so meals at once, whereas with a soup kitchen, they typically only receive a single meal with each visit.\n\nFood banks typically have procedures needed to prevent unscrupulous people taking advantage of them, unlike soup kitchens which will usually give a meal to whomever turns up with no questions asked. The soup kitchen's greater accessibility can make it more suitable for assisting people with long-term dependence on food aid. Soup kitchens can also provide warmth, companionship, and the shared communal experience of dining with others, which can be especially valued by people such as disabled, pensioners, widowers, homeless and ex-homeless. In some countries such as Greece, soup kitchens have become the most widely used form of food aid, with \"The Guardian\" reporting in 2012, that an estimated 400,000 Greeks visit a soup kitchen each day.\n"}
{"id": "24833143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24833143", "title": "Stiefografie", "text": "Stiefografie\n\nStiefografie, also called Stiefo or Rationelle Stenografie (Rational Shorthand), is a German shorthand system. It was invented by Helmut Stief (1906–1977), a German press and parliamentary stenographer, and first published in 1966.\n\nHelmut Stief was dissatisfied with the Deutsche Einheitskurzschrift so he created a much simpler alternative system. According to Stief the eponymous shorthand system Stiefografie can be quickly learned within a very short time. There are only 25 characters to learn in the first level Grundschrift (business script). Stiefografie is in Germany the most popular form of the new stenography systems published since the 1950s.\n\nThe system has only a minimum number of rules. Like most systems of shorthand, Stiefografie is a phonetic system. Sounds and words are written as they are spoken. Silent letters are ignored.\n\nThe consonant signs are made by simplifying the features of cursive Latin letters. Vowel signs are only used when a vowel stands at the end of a word. Vowels in the beginning or in the middle of words are represented symbolically by varying the position of the following consonant signs.\n\nStiefografie does not employ shading (variation of thickness of strokes) to distinguish vowel symbols. Shading is nowadays difficult to achieve with a ballpoint pen, a stylus or finger input for smart phones or tablet computers.\n\nThe punctuation marks full stop, semicolon and comma are not used because they look like some brief forms of very frequent German words in Aufbauschrift (speed script and speech script) and could be confused with these words. These punctuation marks are replaced by different space intervals between the sentences and phrases.\n\nStiefografie shorthand is written in three levels: Grundschrift (business script), Aufbauschrift I (speed script) and Aufbauschrift II (speech script).\n\n\"Grundschrift\" can be produced at a rate of 100 to 120 syllables per minute. There are only 24 characters for consonants and combinations of consonants (e.g. sch, sp, st). Contrary to the practice in many English shorthand systems (e.g. Pitman Shorthand), vowels are never omitted. There are no brief forms for the most frequent syllables and words of the German language in this first level.\n\n\"Aufbauschrift I\" can be produced up to 160 syllables per minute. There are 54 brief forms for the most frequent words and syllables in the German language and rules for forming free abbreviations. These brief forms are distinguishable by size and position (three of them: above, below, or on the base line). Special endings and syllables can be omitted.\nThere are more than additional 120 brief forms in \"Aufbauschrift II\" to write up to about 400 syllables per minute. It is possible to omit special consonants, vowels and syllables.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36530691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36530691", "title": "Streamgraph", "text": "Streamgraph\n\nA streamgraph, or stream graph, is a type of stacked area graph which is displaced around a central axis, resulting in a flowing, organic shape.\n\nStreamgraphs and their use were popularized by Lee Byron in a February 2008 \"New York Times\" article on movie box office revenues.\n\n"}
{"id": "3472330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3472330", "title": "Sun sensor", "text": "Sun sensor\n\nA sun sensor is a navigational instrument used by spacecraft to detect the position of the sun. Sun sensors are used for attitude control, solar array pointing, gyro updating, and fail-safe recovery.\n\nIn addition to spacecraft, sun sensors find use in ground-based weather stations and sun-tracking systems, and aerial vehicles including balloons and UAVs.\n\nThere are various types of sun sensors, which differ in their technology and performance characteristics. Sun presence sensors provide a binary output, indicating when the sun is within the sensor's field of view. Analog and digital sun sensors, in contrast, indicate the angle of the sun by continuous and discrete signal outputs, respectively.\n\nIn typical sun sensors, a thin slit at the top of a rectangular chamber allows a line of light to fall on an array of photodetector cells at the bottom of the chamber. A voltage is induced in these cells, which is registered electronically. By orienting two sensors perpendicular to each other, the direction of the sun can be fully determined.\n\nOften, multiple sensors will share processing electronics.\n\nThere are a number of design and performance criteria which dictate the selection of a sun sensor model:\n\n"}
{"id": "11414813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11414813", "title": "Supply chain responsiveness matrix", "text": "Supply chain responsiveness matrix\n\nA supply chain responsiveness matrix is a tool that is used to analyze inventory and lead time within an organization.\n\nThe matrix is one of a number of Value Stream Mapping tools \n\nThe matrix is represented by showing lead time along the X- Axis and inventory along the y axis. The result shows where slow moving stock resides.\n\n"}
{"id": "54919713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54919713", "title": "Terrorism in the British Indian Ocean Territory", "text": "Terrorism in the British Indian Ocean Territory\n\nThe British Indian Ocean Territory, sometimes known as the Chagos Archipelago has had many threats of occupation by various groups, especially the since the Depopulation of Chagossians from the Chagos Archipelago, as well as being a joint UK-US facility that is used in countering terrorism. The UK maintains there is a low risk of terrorism in this territory.\n\nIn 2008 it was exposed in TIME magazine by Lawrence Wilkerson that a secret War on Terror prison had existed on the island of Diego Garcia from 2002–2006. He claimed that Diego Garcia was used by the CIA for \"nefarious activities\". He said that he had heard from three US intelligence sources that Diego Garcia was used as \"a transit site where people were temporarily housed, let us say, and interrogated from time to time\" and, \"What I heard was more along the lines of using it as a transit location when perhaps other places were full or other places were deemed too dangerous or insecure, or unavailable at the moment\".\n\nIn June 2004, the British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw stated that United States authorities had repeatedly assured him that no detainees had passed in transit through Diego Garcia or were disembarked there.\n\nDiego Garcia was first rumoured to have been one of the locations of the CIA's black sites in 2005. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is one of the \"high-value detainees\" suspected to have been held in Diego Garcia.\nIn October 2007, the Foreign Affairs Select Committee of the British Parliament announced that it would launch an investigation of continued allegations of a prison camp on Diego Garcia, which it claimed were twice confirmed by comments made by retired United States Army General Barry McCaffrey. On 31 July 2008, an unnamed former White House official alleged that the United States had imprisoned and interrogated at least one suspect on Diego Garcia during 2002 and possibly 2003.\n\nThe existence of the site was confirmed by US general Barry McCaffrey, and Swiss Senator Dick Marty. Also, Manfred Nowak, one of five of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture, says that credible evidence exists supporting allegations that ships serving as black sites have used Diego Garcia as a base. The human rights group Reprieve alleges that United States-operated ships moored outside the territorial waters of Diego Garcia were used to incarcerate and torture detainees.\n\nInmates included Mustafa Setmariam Nasar, and Riduan Isamuddin was held there before being transferred to Guantanamo Bay detention camp. The United Kingdom government, who lease the island to the US, denied any knowledge of the incident, saying that two prisoners had passed through Diego Garcia but the plane they were on had only stopped to refuel. Nasar's location is still unknown since his arrival on Diego Garcia was announced in Spanish newspaper \"El Pais\".\n\nOn December 9, 2014, the United States Senate Intelligence Committee published a 600-page unclassified summary of its 6,700 page secret report on the CIA's abuse of its secret prisoners.\nDavid Jones, writing in the \"Daily Mail\", expressed surprise that Diego Garcia went entirely unmentioned on every page of the unclassified summary, and speculated that pressure from UK security agencies caused the portions of the report that covered CIA prisoner facilities on the island to remain classified.\n"}
{"id": "1194496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1194496", "title": "Value of control", "text": "Value of control\n\nThe value of control is a quantitative measure of the value of controlling the outcome of an uncertain variable. Decision analysis provides a means for calculating the value of both perfect and imperfect control. The former value, informally known as the value of wizardry, is an upper bound for the latter. Obtaining meaningful value-of-control measurements requires an awareness of important restrictions (concerning the nature of free will and the meaning of counterfactual statements) on the validity of this kind of analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "528474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528474", "title": "Womb Realm", "text": "Womb Realm\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhism, the Womb Realm (, \"taizōkai\") is the metaphysical space inhabited by the Wisdom Kings. The Womb Realm is based on the \"Mahavairocana Tantra\". The name of the mandala derives from chapter 2 of the sutra, where it is said that the buddha Mahāvairocana revealed the mandala's secret teachings to his disciple Vajrasattva from his \"womb of compassion\". In other translations, the term \"matrix realm\" or Matrix Mandala are used.\n\nThe Womb Realm is a very popular subject for mandalas, and along with the Diamond Realm (\"vajradhātu\") Mandala forms the Mandala of the Two Realms. This mandala, along with the Diamond Realm, form the core of Japanese Tendai and Shingon Buddhist rituals, including abhisheka \"initiation\". In this ritual, new initiates are blindfolded and asked to toss a flower upon a mandala. Where the flower lands helps decide which Buddhist figure the student should devote themselves to.\n\nIn traditional Shingon halls, the Womb Realm Mandala is hung on the east wall, symbolizing the young stage of Mahāvairocana.In this setting, the Diamond Realm Mandala is hung on the west wall symbolizing the final realization of Mahāvairocana.\n\nCenter Eight Petal Hall\n\nDainichi is depicted in regal attire wearing a jewelled crown in the center of an eight-petaled lotus. Four Buddhas, representing the four directions, are depicted directly above, below, left, and right of Dainichi. The Buddha of the East, Hōdō, is illustrated on the top, the Buddha of the South, Kaifukeō to the right, the Buddha of the West, Amida, to the bottom, and the Buddha of the North, Tenkuraion, to the right. Four bodhisattvas, Fugen, Monju, Kannon, and Miroku, are illustrated between the Buddhas. \n\nVajras are illustrated between the petals of nine deities and symbolize the knowledge or wisdom (jnana) that crush illusions. \n\nFour vases containing a lotus and a three-pronged Vajra, are placed at the corners of the Center Hall. The hall is marked off by a five-colored boundary path with each color referring to one of the five buddhas, knowledges, directions, roots, conversions, syllables, elements, and forms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24296124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24296124", "title": "World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS)", "text": "World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS)\n\nThe World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS) is The Energy and Resources Institute's (TERI) annual flagship event. The theme of the 2019 edition of the Summit is 'Attaining the 2030 Agenda: Delivering on Our Promise'.\n\nThe WSDS brings together Nobel laureates, political leaders, decision-makers from bilateral and multilateral institutions, business leaders, high-level functionaries from the diplomatic corps, scientists and researchers, media personnel, and members of civil society; on a common platform to deliberate on issues related to sustainable development.\n\nPost the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals and the signing of the Paris Agreement, the WSDS aims to provide long-term solutions for the benefit of the global community by assembling the various stakeholders on a single platform and initiating a step in the direction of achieving constructive action in combating issues pertinent to the future of humanity. \n1. Corporate Conclave: A platform for business leaders to define a path and evolve a strategy to facilitate development whilst protecting the environment.\n\n2. Thematic Tracks: Parallel breakaway sessions led by area experts that aim at providing feasible solutions to challenges faced by local and global communities in maintaining the balance between securing environmental sustainability and development.\n\n3. Plenaries: The Summit agenda focuses on hosting exclusive dialogue sessions in the form of plenaries. These sessions welcome senior dignitaries, government officials, corporate leaders, and academicians from all over the world to congregate on a single platform to deliberate over issues of global importance.\n\n4. Regional Dialogues: With the aim of widening the scope and outreach of the WSDS, a series of pre-events in the form of Regional Dialogues are held throughout the country, prior to the Summit. The discussions held during the regional dialogues are brought forward to the main Summit stage where they are further matured and discussed in-depth by experts and practitioners from relevant fields. \n\n4. Youth Programmes: The programmes seek to engage youth from around the globe in the sustainable development discourse, record their experiences, and encourage positive action on their part.\n\n5. Exhibition: The Exhibition provides an opportunity for global players to showcase technologies in the areas of renewable energy, waste management, sustainable buildings, sustainable transport, water management and financing for sustainable development and energy efficiency.\n\nTERI, since 2001, annually organized the DSDS, an international platform to facilitate the exchange of knowledge on all aspects of sustainable development. This flagship event of TERI brought together various heads of state and government, thought leaders, policy-makers and the crème de la crème of industry and academia to deliberate on myriad issues.\n\nThe Summit series have emerged as the premier international event on sustainability which focusses on the global future, but with an eye on the actions in the developing world which could bend our common future.The Summit series have over the years brought together 47 heads of state and government, 13 Nobel laureates, ministers from 76 countries, 1600 business leaders, 1800+ speakers and over 12,000 delegates from across the world.\nIn 2005, TERI established \"The Sustainable Development Leadership Award\" to felicitate the efforts of global leaders in the field of sustainable development. The award winners are as follows: \n"}
