{"id": "21977721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21977721", "title": "1949 Swiss Grand Prix", "text": "1949 Swiss Grand Prix\n\nThe 1949 Swiss Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race which was held at Bremgarten on 3 July 1949. The race was won by Alberto Ascari driving a Ferrari 125.\n"}
{"id": "7425486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7425486", "title": "1993 World Games", "text": "1993 World Games\n\nThe 1993 World Games, the fourth World Games, were an international multi-sport event held in The Hague, Netherlands.\n\nThe medal tally during the fourth World Games is as follows. Germany finished at the top of the final medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "28256655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28256655", "title": "2010 FINA Diving World Cup", "text": "2010 FINA Diving World Cup\n\nThe 2010 FINA Diving World Cup was held in Changzhou, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China from June 2 to June 6, 2010. It was the 17th FINA Diving World Cup competition. 146 divers from 33 countries and regions competed in this World Cup. The 2010 FINA Diving World Cup is held one year after the 2009 FINA Diving World Championships which was held in Rome.\n\nThe “Team Event”, which combines both male and female divers competing side by side, was included for the first time. This event was held on a trial basis.\n\n\nThe number beside each nation represents the number of athletes who competed for each country at the 2010 FINA Diving World Cup.\n"}
{"id": "37018641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37018641", "title": "2012 Benghazi attack", "text": "2012 Benghazi attack\n\nThe 2012 Benghazi attack was a coordinated attack against two United States government facilities in Benghazi, Libya by members of the Islamic militant group Ansar al-Sharia.\n\nAt 9:40 p.m., September 11, members of Ansar al-Sharia attacked the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi resulting in the deaths of U.S. Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens and U.S. Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith. Stevens was the first U.S. ambassador killed in the line of duty since 1979.\n\nAt around 4:00 a.m. on September 12, the group launched a mortar attack against a CIA annex approximately away, killing CIA contractors Tyrone S. Woods and Glen Doherty and wounding ten others. At the behest of the CIA, top U.S. officials initially described the attacks as the results of a spontaneous protest triggered by the recently released anti-Muslim video, \"Innocence of Muslims\". Subsequent investigations showed that the attack was premeditated – although rioters and looters not originally part of the group may have joined in after the attacks began.\n\nThe \"National Review\" later labeled the attack Battle of Benghazi, a name that has since been used by several media outlets to refer to the attacks. There is no definitive evidence that al-Qaeda or any other international terrorist organization participated in the Benghazi attack. The United States immediately increased security worldwide at diplomatic and military facilities and began investigating the Benghazi attack. Many Libyans condemned the attacks. They staged public demonstrations condemning Ansar al-Sharia, which had been formed during the 2011 Libyan civil war in opposition to leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi.\n\nDespite persistent accusations against President Obama, Hillary Clinton, and Susan Rice, ten investigations — six by Republican-controlled congressional committees — did not find that they or any other high-ranking Obama administration officials had acted improperly. Four career State Department officials were criticized for denying requests for additional security at the facility prior to the attack. Eric J. Boswell, the Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security, resigned under pressure, while three others were suspended. In her role as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton subsequently took responsibility for the security lapses.\n\nOn August 6, 2013, it was reported that the U.S. had filed criminal charges against several individuals alleged to have been involved in the attacks, including militia leader Ahmed Abu Khattala. Khattala has been described by Libyan and U.S. officials as the Benghazi leader of Ansar al-Sharia. The U.S. Department of State designated Ansar al-Sharia as a terrorist organization in January 2014.\n\nKhattala was captured in Libya by U.S. Army Special Operations Forces, who were acting in coordination with the FBI, in June 2014. Another suspect, Mustafa al-Imam, was captured in October 2017.\n\nWithin months of the start of the Libyan revolution in February 2011, the CIA began building a covert presence in Benghazi. During the war, elite counterterrorist operators from U.S. Delta Force were deployed to Libya as analysts, instructing the rebels on specifics about weapons and tactics. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens was named the first liaison with the Libyan opposition in March 2011. After the end of the war, both the CIA and the U.S. State Department were tasked with continuing to identify and collect arms that had flooded the country during the war, particularly shoulder-fired missiles taken from the arsenal of the Gaddafi regime, as well as securing Libyan chemical weapons stockpiles, and helping to train Libya's new intelligence service.\n\nEastern Libya and Benghazi were key intelligence-gathering hubs for intelligence operatives. Before the attack, the CIA was monitoring Ansar al-Sharia and suspected members of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, as well as attempting to define the leadership and loyalty of the various militias present and their interaction with the Salafi elements of Libyan society. By the time of the attack, dozens of CIA operatives were on the ground in Benghazi. In addition, it has been reported that in the summer of 2012, American Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) missions had begun to target Libyan militias linked to the Al-Qaeda network of Yasin al-Suri. By the time of the attack, a composite U.S. Special Operations team with two JSOC members was already in Libya working on their mission profile independently of the CIA and State Department operations.\n\nMultiple anonymous sources reported that the diplomatic mission in Benghazi was used by the CIA as a cover to smuggle weapons from Libya to anti-Assad rebels in Syria. Investigative journalist Seymour Hersh cites an anonymous former senior Defense Department intelligence official, saying \"The consulate's only mission was to provide cover for the moving of arms. It had no real political role.\" The attack allegedly brought an end to the purported U.S. involvement, but did not stop the smuggling according to Hersh's source. In January 2014, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence cast doubt on this alleged U.S. involvement and reported that \"All CIA activities in Benghazi were legal and authorized. On-the-record testimony establishes that the CIA was not sending weapons ... from Libya to Syria, or facilitating other organizations or states that were transferring weapons from Libya to Syria.\"\n\nDuring Congressional hearings, Ambassador Stevens' top deputy in Libya, Gregory N. Hicks, testified that Ambassador Stevens was in Benghazi in 2012 because \"Secretary [of State Hillary] Clinton wanted the post made permanent\", and it was understood that the secretary hoped to make an announcement to that effect during a visit to Tripoli later in the year. He also stated that \"Chris [Stevens] wanted to make a symbolic gesture to the people of Benghazi that the United States stood behind their dream of establishing a new democracy.\"\n\nIn April 2012, two former security guards for the consulate threw an IED over the consulate fence; the incident did not cause any casualties. Just four days later, a similar bomb was thrown at a four-vehicle convoy carrying the United Nations Special Envoy to Libya, exploding from the UN envoy's vehicle without injuring anyone.\n\nIn May 2012, an Al-Qaida affiliate calling itself the \"Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman\" claimed responsibility for an attack on the International Red Cross (ICRC) office in Benghazi. On August 6, the ICRC suspended operations in Benghazi. The head of the ICRC's delegation in Libya said the aid group was \"appalled\" by the attack and \"extremely concerned\" about escalating violence in Libya.\n\nThe Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman released a video of what it said was its detonation of an explosive device outside the gates of the U.S. consulate on June 6, which caused no casualties but blew a hole in the consulate's perimeter wall, described by one individual as \"big enough for forty men to go through\". The Brigades claimed that the attack was in response to the killing of Abu Yahya al Libi, a Libyan al-Qaeda leader who had just died in an American drone attack, and was also timed to coincide with the imminent arrival of a U.S. diplomat. There were no injuries, but the group left behind leaflets promising more attacks against the U.S.\n\nBritish ambassador to Libya Dominic Asquith survived an assassination attempt in Benghazi on June 10. Two British protection officers were injured in the attack when their convoy was hit by a rocket-propelled grenade from their consulate office. The British Foreign Office withdrew all consular staff from Benghazi in late June.\n\nOn June 18, 2012, the Tunisian consulate in Benghazi was attacked by individuals affiliated with Ansar al-Sharia, allegedly because of \"attacks by Tunisian artists against Islam\".\n\nOn the day of the attack, two consulate security guards spotted a man in a Libyan police uniform taking pictures of the consulate with his cell phone from a nearby building that was under construction. The security guards briefly detained the man before releasing him. He drove away in a police car and a complaint was made to the Libyan police station. Sean Smith noticed this surveillance, and messaged a friend online around noon, \"Assuming we don't die tonight. We saw one of our 'police' that guard the compound taking pictures.\"\n\nAccording to a local security official, he and a battalion commander had met with U.S. diplomats three days before the attack and warned the Americans about deteriorating security in the area. The official told CNN that he advised the diplomats, \"The situation is frightening; it scares us.\"\n\nAmbassador Stevens' diary, which was later found at the compound, recorded his concern about the growing al-Qaeda presence in the area and his worry about being on an al-Qaeda hit list.\n\nU.S. security officer Eric Nordstrom twice requested additional security for the mission in Benghazi from the State Department. His requests were denied and according to Nordstrom, State Department official Charlene Lamb wanted to keep the security presence in Benghazi \"artificially low\".\n\nOn December 30, 2012, the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs released a report, \"Flashing Red: A Special Report on the Terrorist Attack at Benghazi\", wherein it was determined:\n\nIn the months [between February 2011 and September 11, 2012] leading up to the attack on the Temporary Mission Facility in Benghazi, there was a large amount of evidence gathered by the U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) and from open sources that Benghazi was increasingly dangerous and unstable, and that a significant attack against American personnel there was becoming much more likely. While this intelligence was effectively shared within the Intelligence Community (IC) and with key officials at the Department of State, it did not lead to a commensurate increase in security at Benghazi nor to a decision to close the American mission there, either of which would have been more than justified by the intelligence presented. ... The RSO [Regional Security Officer] in Libya compiled a list of 234 security incidents in Libya between June 2011 and July 2012, 50 of which took place in Benghazi.\n\nThe desire of the State Department to maintain a low profile in Benghazi has been cited as the reason why the State Department circumvented their own Overseas Security Policy Board (OSPB) standards for diplomatic security. In the aftermath, Clinton sought to take responsibility for the security lapses at Benghazi and expressed personal regret. In her January 2013 testimony before Congress, Secretary Clinton claimed security decisions at the Benghazi compound had been made by others, stating, \"The specific security requests pertaining to Benghazi ... were handled by the security professionals in the [State] Department. I didn't see those requests, I didn't approve them, I didn't deny them.\"\n\nThe Benghazi attack was conducted by separate military factions on two separate U.S. compounds. The first assault occurred at the main diplomatic compound, approximately long and wide, at about 9:40 p.m. local time (3:40 p.m. Eastern Time). A mortar fire attack on a CIA annex away (coordinates ) began at about 4:00 a.m. the following morning and lasted for 11 minutes.\n\nOne Libyan guard who was wounded in the attack was quoted as saying \"there wasn't a single ant outside [before the attack].\" According to Media Matters For America, the attackers stated they were acting in response to \"Innocence of Muslims\". No more than seven Americans were in the compound, including Ambassador Stevens.\n\nStevens was visiting Benghazi at the time to review plans to establish a new cultural center and modernize a hospital. The ambassador also \"needed to [prepare a] report ... on the physical and the political and security environment in Benghazi to support an action memo to convert Benghazi from a temporary facility to a permanent facility\". Surplus funds originally dedicated for use in Iran for fiscal year 2012 were to be redirected and obligated for use in Benghazi: an action that had to be completed before the end of the fiscal year—September 30, 2012.\n\nStevens had his last meeting of the day with a Turkish diplomat, and escorted the Turkish diplomat to the main gate at about 8:30 p.m. local time. The street outside the compound was calm, and the State Department reported no unusual activity during the day outside. Stevens retired to his room at about 9:00 p.m.\n\nAbout 9:40 p.m. local time, large numbers of armed men shouting \"Allāhu Akbar\" (God is great) approached the compound from multiple directions. They then threw grenades over the wall and entered the compound with automatic weapons fire, RPGs, and heavier weapons. A Diplomatic Security Service (DSS) agent viewed on the consulate's security cameras \"a large number of men, armed men, flowing into the compound\". He hit the alarm and started shouting, \"Attack! Attack!\" over the loudspeaker. Phone calls were made to the embassy in Tripoli, the Diplomatic Security Command Center in Washington, the February 17th Martyrs Brigade and a U.S. quick reaction force located at the annex compound a little more than a mile (1.6 km) away. Ambassador Stevens telephoned Deputy Chief of Mission Gregory Hicks in Tripoli to tell him the consulate was under attack. Hicks did not recognize the phone number so he did not answer it, twice. On the third call Hicks answered the call.\n\nDiplomatic Security Service Special Agent Scott Strickland secured Stevens and Sean Smith, an information management officer, in the main building's safe haven. The rest of the agents left to retrieve their weapons and tried to return to the main building. The attackers entered the main building and attempted to enter the safe haven. They then spread diesel fuel in the room and set fires. Stevens, Smith, and Strickland moved to the nearby bathroom, but then decided to leave the safe haven after being overcome by smoke. Strickland exited through the window, but Stevens and Smith did not follow him. Strickland returned several times but could not find them in the smoke; he went up to the roof and radioed other agents. Three agents returned to the main building in an armored vehicle, searched the building and found Smith's body, but not Stevens.\n\nAccording to the Annex Security Team, they had become aware of the consulate attack after 9:30 p.m. local time, and were ready to respond; however, they were delayed by \"the top CIA officer in Benghazi\". The Regional Security Office sounded the alarm and called to the Benghazi CIA annex and the embassy in Tripoli. After some discussion, the CIA's Global Response Staff (GRS) at the CIA annex, which included Tyrone S. Woods, decided to attempt a rescue. By 10:05 p.m., the team was briefed and loaded into their armored Toyota Land Cruisers. By this time, communicators at the CIA annex were notifying the chain of command about current developments, and a small CIA and JSOC element in Tripoli that included Glen Doherty was attempting to find a way to Benghazi.\n\nThe GRS team from the CIA annex arrived at the consulate and attempted to secure the perimeter and locate the ambassador and Sean Smith. Diplomatic security agent David Ubben located Smith, who was unconscious and later declared dead, but the team was unable to find Stevens in the smoke-filled building. The team then decided to return to the annex with the survivors and Smith's body. While en route back to the annex, the group's armored vehicle was hit by AK-47 rifle fire and hand grenades. The vehicle was able to make it to its destination with two flat tires, and the gates to the annex were closed behind them at 11:50 p.m.\n\nA U.S. Army commando unit was sent to Naval Air Station Sigonella in Sicily, Italy the night of the attack but did not deploy to Benghazi. U.S. officials say the team did not arrive at Sigonella until after the attack was over.\n\nDiplomatic Security Service agents/Regional Security Officers informed their headquarters in Washington about the attack just as it was beginning at about 9:40 p.m. local time (3:40 p.m. Eastern Time (ET)). At the time, they were informed that the attack was a \"terrorist attack\". \n\nHowever, through September 14, CIA analysts made a contradictory assessment, stating \"We believe based on currently available information that the attacks in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. Consulate and subsequently its annex. The crowd almost certainly was a mix of individuals from across many sectors of Libyan society. That being said, we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa'ida participated in the attack.\" \n\nBy 4:30 p.m. ET, Pentagon officials had informed Defense Secretary Leon Panetta about the attack. The Pentagon ordered an unmanned aerial vehicle that was in the air conducting surveillance on militant camps to fly over Benghazi. The drone arrived at 11:10 p.m. local time (5:10 p.m. ET) and began providing a video feed to Washington. At 5:41 p.m. ET, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton telephoned CIA Director David Petraeus to coordinate. The CIA, which made up most of the U.S. government's presence in Benghazi, had a ten-member security team at its annex and the State Department believed that this team would assist the consulate in the event of an attack.\n\nJust after midnight, the CIA annex came under machine gun, rocket and mortar fire. The CIA defenders held off the attack until the morning. That same morning, Libyan government forces met up with a group of Americans, reinforcements from Tripoli including Glen Doherty, that had arrived at the Benghazi airport. The team, which included two active-duty JSOC operators and five CIA personnel, had commandeered a small jet in Tripoli by paying the pilots $30,000 and forcing them to fly to Benghazi. After being held up at the airport for a few hours, the Libyan forces and newly arrived Americans went to the CIA annex at about 5:00 a.m. to assist in transporting approximately 32 Americans at the annex back to the airport for evacuation. Minutes after they drove through the gates, the annex came under heavy fire. With a lull in the fighting, Doherty began searching for his friend, Tyrone S. Woods, and he was told he was on the roof. He found Woods on the roof with two other agents. A mortar round then hit Woods' position, fatally wounding him. As Doherty attempted to reposition and take cover, a second round fell on him, killing him. 31-year-old Diplomatic Security Service Special Agent David Ubben suffered shrapnel injuries and several broken bones in the mortar attacks.\n\nImmediately, several agents ran onto the roof to assess damage and help the wounded. At the same time, a JSOC operator was using a hand-held device displaying images from a Predator drone above, which had been sent by the DOD's US Africa Command after request. The defenders agreed to evacuate to the airport and were attacked with small arms fire along the route. The evacuation of about 30 Americans included six State Department personnel and Smith's body—they were unable to locate Ambassador Stevens at the time.\n\nAmbassador Stevens' body was found by a group of Libyans who had accessed the room through a window. They were unaware of his identity, and Abdel-Qader Fadl, a freelance photographer who was with them, told the Associated Press that Stevens was unconscious and \"maybe moved his head, but only once\". Ahmed Shams, a 22-year-old arts student, told the Associated Press that they were happy when they found Stevens alive and tried to rescue him. A freelance videographer, Fahd al-Bakoush, later published a video showing Libyans trying to extract the ambassador from a smoke-filled room, where he was found unconscious. According to al-Bakoush, the Libyans saw he was alive and breathing, his eyelids flickering. Though they took him to be a foreigner, no one recognized him as Stevens.\n\nAt around 1:00 a.m., Stevens was taken to the Benghazi Medical Center, a hospital controlled by the Ansar Al-Sharia militia, in a private car as there was no ambulance to carry him. There he was administered CPR for 90 minutes by Dr. Ziad Abu Zeid. According to Dr. Zeid, Stevens died from asphyxiation caused by smoke inhalation, and had no other apparent injuries. The doctor said he believed that officers from the Libyan Interior Ministry transported the body to the airport. State Department officials said they do not know who took Stevens to the hospital or transported the body to the airport and into U.S. custody.\n\nThe bodies were taken to Benina International Airport and flown to the capital, Tripoli, and then to Ramstein Air Base in Germany aboard a C-17 military transport aircraft. From Germany, the four bodies arrived at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, D.C., where President Barack Obama and members of his cabinet held a ceremony in honor of those killed.\n\nAfter the attack, all diplomatic staff were moved to the capital, Tripoli, with nonessential personnel to be flown out of Libya. Sensitive documents remained missing, including documents listing the names of Libyans working with the Americans, and documents relating to oil contracts.\n\nFour Americans died in the attack: Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Information Officer Sean Smith, and two CIA operatives, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods, both former Navy SEALs. Stevens was the first United States ambassador killed in an attack since Adolph Dubs was killed in Kabul, Afghanistan in 1979.\n\nOn September 10, 2012, at least 18 hours before the attack in Benghazi, al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri released a video to coincide with the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in 2001, which called for attacks on Americans in Libya in order to avenge the death of Abu Yahya al-Libi in a drone strike in Pakistan in June 2012. It is uncertain how much prior knowledge of the attack al-Zawahiri had, though he praised the attackers on October 12, 2012 in another video. On September 14, 2012, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula released a statement arguing the attack was revenge for the death of al-Libi, though they did not claim official responsibility for the Benghazi attack. It was later reported that 3 operatives from the group did take part in the attack. Further, an intercepted phone call from the Benghazi area immediately after the attack reportedly linked senior Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb commander Mokhtar Belmokhtar to the attack.\n\nDavid Kirkpatrick of \"The New York Times\" reported that 20-year-old neighbor Mohamed Bishari witnessed the attack. According to Bishari, it was launched without warning or protest and was led by the Islamist militia Ansar al-Sharia (different from the group called Ansar al-Sharia based in Yemen designated by the U.N. and the U.S. Department of State as a terrorist organization). Kirkpatrick reported that Ansar al-Sharia said they were launching the assault in retaliation for the release of the anti-Islamic video, \"Innocence of Muslims.\" It was further reported that Ahmed Abu Khattala was called a ringleader of the attack by both witnesses and authorities, though he insisted he did not play a part in the aggression at the American compound. Witnesses, Benghazi residents, and Western news reports have described him as a leader of Ansar al-Sharia, though he stated he was close to the group but not an official part of it. He further stated he was the commander of an Islamist brigade, Abu Obaida ibn al-Jarrah, some of whose members had joined Ansar al-Sharia.\n\nThe Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman, a pro-al-Qaeda militia calling for the release of The Blind Sheik, was implicated in the attack by Noman Benotman of the Quilliam Foundation. CNN, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, \"Commentary Magazine\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" have listed this group as a chief suspect. \"USA Today\" reported that protests in Cairo that preceded the attack on Benghazi were intended to protest the imprisonment of Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman and announced as early as August 30. Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi had called for release of the Blind Sheikh in his inaugural address.\n\nIn the days and weeks following the attack, President Obama and other administration officials correctly noted that the video had sparked violent incidents at a number of U.S. diplomatic facilities, and Susan Rice stated — based on a flawed CIA assessment — the video was also a prime catalyst for the Benghazi attack. In a phone call with the Egyptian prime minister Kandil the day after the attack, then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said \"we know the attack in Libya had nothing to do with the film. It was a planned attack, not a protest.\" This assessment reflected information in an email sent by the State Department Operations Center to the White House, Pentagon, intelligence community and FBI at 6:07pm Eastern time the night of the attack, the subject line of which read, \"Update 2: Ansar al-Sharia Claims Responsibility for Benghazi Attack.\" \n\nHowever, this assessment contradicted the assessment of CIA analysts, which through September 16 maintained that \"the demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo,\" at which violent protesters had scaled the embassy walls. And the day after the attack, Ansar al-Sharia appeared to confirm both assessments when it issued a statement saying The [Ansar al-Shariah] Brigade didn't participate as a sole entity; rather, it was a spontaneous popular uprising in response to what happened by the West,\" which was an apparent reference to the Innocence of Muslims video. \nA later report from an independent review board concluded \"there was no protest prior to the attacks.\"\n\nIn a September 18 appearance on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", President Obama said, \"extremists and terrorists used (the anti-Muslim YouTube video) as an excuse to attack a variety of our embassies.\" Obama spoke accurately, because five American \"embassies\" were the sites of violent protests due to the video, but Benghazi was not an \"embassy\", it was a \"diplomatic post.\" In his Univision Town Hall appearance on September 20, President Obama said that the \"natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests.\" The Innocence of Muslims video triggered dozens of protests from northwest Africa to southeast Asia, including violent protests at American embassies in Tunis, Khartoum, Cairo, Sana and Jakarta.\n\nIn October 2012, a Tunisian, Ali Harzi, who a U.S. intelligence official stated had links to Ansar al-Sharia and al-Qaeda in the Maghreb, was arrested in Turkey and repatriated to Tunisia on terrorism charges and possible links to the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi. Ali Harzi was released by Tunisian authorities on January 8, 2013 because of a lack of evidence.\n\nAlso in October, a Libyan suspect, Karim el-Azizi, who had recently returned to Egypt from Libya and was storing weapons in his hideout, detonated a bomb and was found dead in his apartment after clashes with security forces. He has been linked to an Egyptian terrorist group led by Muhammad Jamal Abu Ahmad, who is suspected of training some of the terrorists responsible for the Benghazi attack in camps in the Libyan desert. Jamal Abu Ahmad, a former member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, was released from Egyptian prison after the fall of the Mubarak regime, after which he began assembling a terrorist network. He received financing from the Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, petitioned Al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri to establish a new Al-Qaeda affiliate he called al-Qaeda in Egypt, and was subsequently detained by Egyptian authorities in December 2012. On October 7, 2013, the Muhammad Jamal network (MJN) and Muhammad Jamal were designated as \"global terrorists\" by the U.S. Department of State. The U.S. State Department noted in its designation that Jamal \"has developed connections with al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), AQ senior leadership, and al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) leadership including Nasir 'Abd-al-Karim 'Abdullah al-Wahishi and Qasim Yahya Mahdi al-Rimi\". A few days later, on October 21, 2013, the United Nations Security Council designated the MJN \"as being associated with Al-Qaida\". The United Nations Security Council also noted, \"Some of the attackers of the U.S. Mission in Benghazi on September 11, 2012, have been identified as associates of Muhammad Jamal, and some of the Benghazi attackers reportedly trained at MJN camps in Libya.\"\n\nIn March 2013, Faraj al-Shibli was detained by Libyan authorities and questioned by the FBI because of his suspected involvement in the Benghazi attack. Al-Shibli was detained after he returned from a trip to Pakistan, though his exact role in the attack is unclear. He was a member of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, which tried to overthrow the Gadhafi regime in the mid-1990s. Investigators have learned he has had contact with both the Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Al-Qaeda members in Pakistan. He was released by Libyan authorities on June 12, 2013, based on claims there was a lack of evidence to hold him in custody. In July 2014 he was found dead in Libya.\n\nLibyan Prime Minister Mustafa Abushagur's office condemned the attack and extended condolences, saying: \"While strongly condemning any attempt to abuse the person of Muhammad, or an insult to our holy places and prejudice against the faith, we reject and strongly condemn the use of force to terrorize innocent people and the killing of innocent people.\" It also reaffirmed \"the depth of relationship between the peoples of Libya and the U.S., which grew closer with the positions taken by the U.S. government in support of the revolution of February 17\". Mohamed Yousef el-Magariaf, the President of the General National Congress of Libya, said: \"We apologise to the United States, the people and to the whole world for what happened. We confirm that no-one will escape from punishment and questioning.\"\n\nThere were demonstrations in Benghazi and Tripoli on September 12, condemning the violence and holding signs such as \"Chris Stevens was a friend to all Libyans\", \"Benghazi is against terrorism\", and other signs apologizing to Americans for the actions in their name and in the name of Muslims. On the same day, Libya's Deputy Ambassador to London Ahmad Jibril told the BBC that Ansar Al-Sharia was behind the attack. On September 13, at a U.S. State Department reception in Washington D.C., the Libyan ambassador to the U.S. Ali Aujali apologized to Secretary of State Clinton for \"this terrorist attack which took place against the American consulate in Libya\". The ambassador further praised Stevens as a \"dear friend\" and a \"real hero\". He also urged the United States to continue supporting Libya as it went \"through a very difficult time\" and that the young Libyan government needed help so that it could \"maintain ... security and stability in our country\".\n\nIn the days after the attack, \"The New York Times\" stated that young Libyans had flooded Twitter with pro-American messages after the attacks. \"Think Progress\" stated that Libyans are typically more positively inclined towards the United States than their neighbors. A 2012 Gallup poll noted that \"A majority of Libyans (54%) surveyed in March and April 2012 approve of the leadership of the U.S.—among the highest approval Gallup has ever recorded in the ... region, outside of Israel.\" Another poll in Eastern Libya, taken in 2011, reported that the population was at the same time both deeply religious conservative Muslims and very pro-American, with 90% of respondents reporting favorable views of the United States.\n\nThe Libyan response to the crisis was praised and appreciated in the United States, and President Obama emphasized how the Libyans \"helped our diplomats to safety\" to an American audience the following day, while a \"New York Times\" editorial criticized Egypt's government for not doing \"what Libyan leaders did\".\n\nOn September 16, Libyan President Mohamed Magariaf said that the attack on the United States consulate was planned months in advance, and further stated that \"[t]he idea that this criminal and cowardly act was a spontaneous protest that just spun out of control is completely unfounded and preposterous. We firmly believe that this was a precalculated, preplanned attack that was carried out specifically to attack the U.S. consulate.\"\n\nOn September 21, about 30,000 Libyans marched through Benghazi calling for support of the rule of law and for an end to the armed militias that had formed during the Libyan Civil War to oppose Colonel Gaddafi. After that war, the militias failed to disband, and continually menaced the Libyan government and populace. Carrying signs with slogans such as \"We Want Justice For Chris\" and \"Libya Lost a Friend\", the protestors stormed several militia headquarters, including that of Ansar al-Sharia, an Islamist militia who some allege played a role in the attack on U.S. diplomatic personnel on September 11. At least 10 people were killed and dozens more wounded as militiamen fired on demonstrators at the headquarters of Sahaty Brigade, a pro-government militia \"operating under the authority of the ministry of defence\".\n\nBy early next morning, the protestors had forced militia members to flee and seized control of a number of compounds, releasing four prisoners found inside. Protesters burnt a car and a building of at least one facility, and looted weapons. The militia compounds and many weapons were handed over to Libya's national army in what \"appeared to be part of a coordinated sweep of militia bases by police, government troops and activists\" following the earlier demonstrations. Some militia members accused the protestors of being Gaddafi loyalists, looking to disarm the militias in the wake of the revolution.\n\nOn September 23, taking advantage of the growing momentum and rising anger against the militias evinced in the earlier anti-militia demonstrations, the Libyan president declared that all unauthorized militias had 48 hours to either disband or come under government control. The government also mandated that bearing arms in public was now illegal, as were armed checkpoints.\n\nHandling the militias had been difficult as the government had been forced to rely on some of them for protection and security. According to a Libyan interviewed in Tripoli, the government gained the ability to push back against the militias because of a \"mandate of the people\". On September 24, the government commenced with a raid on a former military base held by a rogue infantry militia.\n\nAcross the country, militias began surrendering to the government. The government formed a \"National Mobile Force\" for the purpose of evicting illegal militias. On the same day as the declaration, various militias in Misrata held meetings, ultimately deciding to submit to the government's authority, and handed over various public facilities they had been holding, including the city's three main jails, which were handed over to the authority of the Ministry of Justice. Hours before the announcement, in Derna, the two main militias (one of them Ansar al-Sharia) active in the city both withdrew, leaving both their five military bases behind.\n\nHundreds of Libyans, mainly former rebel fighters, gathered in the city centers of Tripoli and Benghazi to hand over their weapons to the government on September 29. The campaign has been less successful in other areas, such as the remote Nafusa Mountains, inhabited by the Nafusi-speaking Berber minority, where the Emirati news agency The National reported on September 23 that arms were being hoarded. The National also reported arms being hoarded in Misrata, despite simultaneous reporting by other outlets that militias were surrendering in Misrata.\n\nOn September 12, U.S. President Barack Obama condemned \"this outrageous attack\" on U.S. diplomatic facilities and stated that \"since our founding, the United States has been a nation that respects all faiths. We reject all efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others.\" After referring to \"the 9/11 attacks\", \"troops who made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan\", and \"then last night, we learned the news of this attack in Benghazi\" the President urged, \"As Americans, let us never, ever forget that our freedom is only sustained because there are people who are willing to fight for it, to stand up for it, and in some cases, lay down their lives for it.\" He then went on to say,\nNo acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character, or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for. Today we mourn four more Americans who represent the very best of the United States of America. We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will be done.\n\nAfter the attack, Obama ordered that security be increased at all such facilities worldwide. A 50-member Marine FAST team was sent to Libya to \"bolster security\". It was announced that the FBI would investigate the possibility of the attack being planned. U.S. officials said surveillance over Libya would increase, including the use of unmanned drones, to \"hunt for the attackers\".\n\nSecretary of State Clinton also made a statement on September 12, describing the perpetrators as \"heavily armed militants\" and \"a small and savage group—not the people or government of Libya\". She also reaffirmed \"America's commitment to religious tolerance\" and said \"Some have sought to justify this vicious behavior, along with the protest that took place at our Embassy in Cairo yesterday, as a response to inflammatory material posted on the Internet,\" but whether true or not, that was not a justification for violence. The State Department had previously identified embassy and personnel security as a major challenge in its budget and priorities report.\n\nOn September 12, it was reported that the United States Navy dispatched two \"Arleigh Burke\" class destroyers, the USS \"McFaul\" and the USS \"Laboon\", to the Libyan coast. The destroyers are equipped with Tomahawk cruise missiles. American UAVs were also sent to fly over Libya to search for the perpetrators of the attack.\n\nIn a speech on September 13, in Golden, Colorado, President Obama paid tribute to the four Americans \"killed in an attack on our diplomatic post in Libya\", stating, \n\nWe enjoy our security and our liberty because of the sacrifices they make ... I want people around the world to hear me: To all those who would do us harm, no act of terror will go unpunished. It will not dim the light of the values that we proudly present to the rest of the world.\n\nIn his press briefing on September 14, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters that \"we don't have and did not have concrete evidence to suggest that this [the Benghazi attack] was not in reaction to the film.\" He went on to say: \n\nThere was no intelligence that in any way could have been acted on to prevent these attacks. It is—I mean, I think the DNI spokesman was very declarative about this that the report is false. The report suggested that there was intelligence that was available prior to this that led us to believe that this facility would be attacked, and that is false ... We have no information to suggest that it was a preplanned attack. The unrest we've seen around the region has been in reaction to a video that Muslims, many Muslims find offensive. And while the violence is reprehensible and unjustified, it is not a reaction to the 9/11 anniversary that we know of, or to U.S. policy.\nOn September 14, the remains of the slain Americans were returned to the U.S.; President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton attended the ceremony. In her remarks Clinton said, \"One young woman, her head covered and her eyes haunted with sadness, held up a handwritten sign that said 'Thugs and killers don't represent Benghazi nor Islam.' The President of the Palestinian Authority, who worked closely with Chris when he served in Jerusalem, sent me a letter remembering his energy and integrity, and deploring—and I quote—'an act of ugly terror.'\" She went on to say: \"We've seen the heavy assault on our post in Benghazi that took the lives of those brave men.\"\n\nOn September 16, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice appeared on five major interview shows to discuss the attacks. Prior to her appearance, Rice was provided with \"talking points\" from a CIA memo, which stated:\n\nThe currently available information suggests that the demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and subsequently its annex. There are indications that extremists participated in the violent demonstrations.\n\nThis assessment may change as additional information is collected and analyzed and as currently available information continues to be evaluated.\n\nThe investigation is ongoing, and the U.S. government is working with Libyan authorities to bring to justice those responsible for the deaths of U.S. citizens.\nUsing these talking points as a guide, Rice stated:\n\nBased on the best information we have to date, what our assessment is as of the present is in fact what began spontaneously in Benghazi as a reaction to what had transpired some hours earlier in Cairo where, of course, as you know, there was a violent protest outside of our embassy—sparked by this hateful video. But soon after that spontaneous protest began outside of our consulate in Benghazi, we believe that it looks like extremist elements, individuals, joined in that— in that effort with heavy weapons of the sort that are, unfortunately, readily now available in Libya post-revolution. And that it spun from there into something much, much more violent. We do not—we do not have information at present that leads us to conclude that this was premeditated or preplanned. I think it's clear that there were extremist elements that joined in and escalated the violence. Whether they were al Qaeda affiliates, whether they were Libyan-based extremists or al Qaeda itself I think is one of the things we'll have to determine.\n\nSince Rice's five television appearances, there have been persistent accusations that she had intentionally and repeatedly lied. However, none of the ten Benghazi investigations determined she had. For example, the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee \"did not conclude that Rice or any other government official acted in bad faith or intentionally misled the American people,\" according to the Associated Press.\n\nIn a White House press briefing on September 18, press secretary Jay Carney explained the attack to reporters: \"I'm saying that based on information that we—our initial information, and that includes all information—we saw no evidence to back up claims by others that this was a preplanned or premeditated attack; that we saw evidence that it was sparked by the reaction to this video. And that is what we know thus far based on the evidence, concrete evidence.\"\n\nOn September 20, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney answered a question about an open hearing with the National Counterterrorism Center Director, Matthew G. Olsen, which referenced which extremist groups might have been involved. Carney said, \"It is, I think, self-evident that what happened in Benghazi was a terrorist attack. Our embassy was attacked violently, and the result was four deaths of American officials. So, again, that's self-evident.\" On the same day, during an appearance on Univision, a Spanish-language television network in the United States, President Obama stated, \"What we do know is that the natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests.\"\n\nAlso on September 20, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton gave a classified briefing to U.S. Senators, which several Republican attendees criticized. According to the article, senators were angered at the Obama administration's rebuff of their attempts to learn details of the Benghazi attack, only to see that information published the next day in \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\".\nOn September 24, advertisements condemning an anti-Islam video appeared on Pakistani television. The television ads in Pakistan (marked with the U.S. Embassy seal) feature clips of President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton during press appearances in Washington in which they condemned the video. Their words were subtitled in Urdu.\n\nOn September 25, in an address before the United Nations General Assembly President Obama stated, \"The attacks on our civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America ... And there should be no doubt that we will be relentless in tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice.\" He referred to \"Innocence of Muslims\" as \"a crude and disgusting video [that] sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world\". He said, \"I have made it clear that the United States government had nothing to do with this video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common humanity.\" He further stated, \"There is no video that justifies an attack on an Embassy.\"\n\nOn September 26, Clinton acknowledged a possible link between Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and the Benghazi attack.\n\nOn September 28, a spokesman for the Director of National Intelligence stated,\nIn the immediate aftermath, there was information that led us to assess that the attack began spontaneously following protests earlier that day at our embassy in Cairo. We provided that initial assessment to Executive Branch officials and members of Congress ... As we learned more about the attack, we revised our initial assessment to reflect new information indicating that it was a deliberate and organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists. It remains unclear if any group or person exercised overall command and control of the attack, and if extremist group leaders directed their members to participate.\n\nAlso on September 28, it was reported that Nakoula Basseley Nakoula, the producer of the \"Innocence of Muslims\" video, had been arrested in California and was being held without bail for alleged probation violations stemming from a 2010 bank fraud conviction.\n\nOn CNN's \"State of the Union with Candy Crowley\" on September 30, Crowley observed that \"Friday we got the administration's sort of definitive statement that this now looks as though it was a pre-planned attack by a terrorist group, some of whom were at least sympathetic to al Qaeda,\" and asked the senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator John McCain, \"why do you think and are you bothered that it has taken them this long from September 11th to now to get to this conclusion?\" to which McCain replied that \"it interferes with the depiction that the administration is trying to convey that al Qaeda is on the wane ... how else could you trot out our U.N. ambassador to say this was a spontaneous demonstration? ... It was either willful ignorance or abysmal intelligence to think that people come to spontaneous demonstrations with heavy weapons, mortars, and the attack goes on for hours.\"\n\nOn October 4, 22 days after the attack, FBI investigators were finally allowed access to the scene of the attack. The crime scene was not secured during that time; neither American nor Libyan investigators were able to secure the scene. The hearing testimony revealed that \"Hicks argued that Rice's comments so insulted the Libyan president—since they contradicted his Sept. 16 claims that the attack was premeditated—that it slowed the FBI's investigation. 'President Magariaf was insulted in front of his own people, in front of the world. His credibility was reduced,' Hicks said, adding that the president was apparently 'still steamed' two weeks later.\"\n\nTo assist the Libyan government in disbanding extremist groups, the Obama administration allocated $8 million to begin building an elite Libyan commando force over the next year.\n\nIn the Presidential debate of October 16, 2012, between President Obama and Mitt Romney, Romney claimed that \"it took the president 14 days before he called the attack in Benghazi an act of terror.\" President Obama responded, \"The day after the attack, governor, I stood in the Rose Garden and I told the American people and the world that we are going to find out exactly what happened,\" Obama said. \"That this was an act of terror, and I also said that we're going to hunt down those who committed this crime.\" When Romney challenged Obama, asking \"You said in the Rose Garden the day after the attack, it was an act of terror. It was not a spontaneous demonstration, is that what you're saying?\" the President responded, \"Please proceed, governor\" and \"Get the transcript.\" The moderator of the debate, Candy Crowley, agreed, stating \"He—he did call it an act of terror.\" A CNN analysis stated that Obama had indeed referred to the incident as a \"terrorist attack\", but that Romney was correct in noting that the administration delayed in conclusively stating that the attack was not a spontaneous protest related to the video. A May 14, 2013 Fact Checker by Glenn Kesler said that Obama repeatedly used the phrase \"act of terror\" when talking about the attack, but he did not directly state that the attack was an act of terror.\n\nOn October 19, 2012, House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) came under fire from intelligence officials in the Obama administration when he posted, on a public website, 166 pages of sensitive but unclassified State Department communications related to Libya. According to officials, the release of the unredacted documents compromised the identities of several Libyans working with the U.S. government and placed their lives in danger.\n\nOn CBS's \"Face the Nation\" on October 28, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) stated that \"this is either a massive cover-up or incompetence\" and suggested that it was a scandal worse than Watergate. McCain stated, \"we know that there were tapes, recordings inside the consulate during this fight ... So the president went on various shows, despite what he said in the Rose Garden, about terrorist acts, he went on several programs, including \"The View,\" including \"Letterman\", including before the UN where he continued to refer, days later, many days later, to this as a spontaneous demonstration because of a hateful video. We know that is patently false. What did the president know? When did he know it? And what did he do about it?\" CBS News reported earlier on October 24 that the video of the assault was recovered 20 days after the attack, from the more than 10 security cameras at the compound. In a radio interview October 29, 2012, Senator John McCain said that the surveillance tapes had been classified top secret.\n\nSecretary Clinton was scheduled to testify before Congress on December 20 about the attack. On December 15, it was reported that she had become dehydrated from the flu, fainted, and sustained a concussion. Consequently, her testimony was postponed. The incident prompted Republican Rep. Allen West to claim that the illness was a ruse intended to avoid testifying. Former UN Ambassador John Bolton called the concussion a \"diplomatic illness\".\n\nOn January 23, 2013, during testimony at a Senate hearing on Benghazi, Clinton engaged in a heated exchange with Senator Ron Johnson. When Johnson pressed her to explain why, in the immediate aftermath, no one from the State Department had asked American evacuees if there had been a protest before the attack, Clinton replied:\n\nWith all due respect, the fact is, we had four dead Americans! Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night and decided they'd go kill some Americans?! What difference, at this point, does it make?! It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, Senator. Now, honestly, I will do my best to answer your questions about this, but the fact is that people were trying in real time to get to the best information. The [Intelligence Community] has a process, I understand, going with the other committees to explain how these talking points came out. But you know, to be clear, it is, from my perspective, less important today looking backwards as to why these militants decided they did it than to find them and bring them to justice, and then maybe we'll figure out what was going on in the meantime.\n\nIn March 2013, Representative Duncan D. Hunter introduced legislation into the 113th Congress to authorize awarding of Congressional Gold Medals to Doherty and Woods for their actions that led to their deaths.\n\nIn April 2013, the Pentagon announced the activation of a USMC quick response force for North Africa that would use the range and speed of the Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey to be able to respond to similar events in the future. Spain authorized the basing of the quick response force at Morón Air Base near Seville, for a temporary one-year term.\n\nOn May 13, 2013, President Obama stated during a news conference, \"The day after it happened, I acknowledged that this was an act of terrorism.\" This claim was disputed by Glenn Kessler of \"The Washington Post\" in a \"Fact Checker\" article, which explored at length the difference in meaning between the phrases \"act of terror\" and \"act of terrorism.\" In the article, Kessler accused Obama of \"revisionist history\" for stating he had called the attack an \"act of terrorism\" when in fact he had used the term \"act of terror\", observing that Obama had gone out of his way to avoid calling the incident an \"act of terrorism\" or blame the ambassador's death on terrorism.\n\nOn July 30, 2013 Rep. Ed Royce (R, CA-39) introduced the Department of State Operations and Embassy Security Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 2848; 113th Congress). Supporters argued, \n\nCritics including Republican Party members accused the Obama White House and State Department of over-emphasizing or fabricating the role of Islamic anger over the anti-Islamic movie \"Innocence of Muslims\" and alleged that the administration was reluctant to label the attack as \"terrorist\". Representative Mike Rogers (R-MI), chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, who on September 13 said that the attacks had all the hallmarks of a coordinated attack by al-Qaeda, has questioned whether there were any protests at all in Benghazi, saying: \"I have seen no information that shows that there was a protest going on as you have seen around any other embassy at the time. It was clearly designed to be an attack.\" According to critics, the consulate site should have been secured better both before and after the attack. GOP legislators also took issue with delays in the investigation, which CNN attributed to \"bureaucratic infighting\" between the FBI, Justice, and State. On September 26, Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia) said he \"cannot believe that the FBI is not on the ground yet\".\n\nTestimony from top U.S. commanders after the attack revealed that the military was unprepared for conflict across Africa and the Middle East. No attack aircraft had been placed on high alert on September 11, the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in 2001, and the closest fighter planes to trouble spots in North Africa were based in Aviano, Italy. The fighter planes based in Aviano were unarmed and no aerial refueling planes were within a 10-hour flight to the base. In addition, no AC-130 gunships were within a 10-hour flight of Libya, and their crews did not reach a staging base in Italy until 19 hours after the attack began.\n\nWith the attack and subsequent criticism occurring in the last two months of the 2012 U.S. Presidential election, Democrats and liberal media figures accused Republicans of politicizing the attacks in an unprecedented manner. Romney was accused by the Obama campaign of trying to exploit the attacks for political gain, leading the father of Ambassador Stevens to call for both campaigns to avoid making it a campaign issue.\n\nRobert Gates, former CIA director and Defense Secretary under Republican Presidents and then President Obama until stepping down in July 2011, has said that some critics of the government's response have a \"cartoonish\" view of military capabilities. He stated that he would have responded with equal caution given the risks and the lack of intelligence on the ground, and that American forces require planning and preparation, which the circumstances did not allow for.\n\nPresident Obama called the criticism a \"sideshow\" and later accused Congress of \"taking its eye off the ball\" on the subject of the economy and focusing on \"phony scandals\". White House Spokesman Jay Carney later specified that the criticism of the administration's handling of the Benghazi attacks was one of those \"phony scandals\".\n\nOn December 10, 2014, upon publication of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence report on Benghazi, Committee Chairman Mike Rogers wrote in an op-ed piece, \"The Obama administration's White House and State Department actions before, during, and after the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012, ranged from incompetence to deplorable political manipulation in the midst of an election season.\" However, immediately upon release of the Committee's report on November 21, 2014, the \"Associated Press\" reported that the Committee did not conclude that any \"government official acted in bad faith or intentionally misled the American people.\"\n\nFor actions in Benghazi during the attack, a Marine was awarded the Navy Cross, and a Soldier was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross; their names have been held in secret.\n\nMultiple conservative media outlets, most notably Fox News, promulgated an elaborate narrative of a scandal and cover-up by officials of the Obama administration, including, among other things, accusations that officials issued a \"stand-down order\" to preclude a military rescue operation; that officials knowingly lied by repeatedly asserting the attack was spontaneously triggered by the Innocence of Muslims video rather than a pre-planned terrorist attack; that a secret CIA gun-running operation to Syrian rebels was being conducted out of Libya; that President Obama and Hillary Clinton were absent and negligent on the night of the attack; that Hillary Clinton had personally declined multiple requests for more security at the compound; that a live video feed of the attack was viewed at the White House or State Department; that Ambassador Stevens had been captured by terrorists and dragged through the streets; and that witnesses had been prevented from testifying. These accusations were widely shared across various blogs and social media platforms. Ultimately, none of the accusations of scandal and cover-up were confirmed by any of the ten Benghazi investigations, including six investigations conducted by Republican-controlled congressional committees.\n\nThe Center for Media and Public Affairs at George Mason University described the conclusions of an unpublished study on November 2, 2012. Based on a textual analysis that tallied the occurrence of certain words and phrases in news reports during the days immediately following the attack, the study concluded that leading newspapers in the U.S. framed the attack in terms of a spontaneous protest over the anti-Islamic film \"Innocence of Muslims\" as framed by the Obama administration's version, four times as often as a planned terrorist attack, which was the Republican version. However, the 2014 final report by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee found that during the days immediately following the attack there was confusion among intelligence analysts as to the origin of the attack, leading to an initial assessment that it was the spontaneous outcome from a protest. Obama administration officials, most notably Susan Rice, were provided this early assessment and repeated it to media outlets, only to be later contradicted as further intelligence assessments were made. None of the ten investigations into Benghazi found that any senior Obama administration officials had acted improperly.\n\nOn September 13, Rachel Maddow, during her show on MSNBC, stated: \n\nAn organized attack. Anybody who tells you that what happened to our ambassador and our consulate in Libya was as a result of a protest over an offensive movie, you should ask them why they think that. That's the first version of events we heard. That does not seem to explain what happened that night or by the facts or the more facts we get.\n\nOn June 2014, Maddow criticized the right-wing media for reporting an arrest as bad news, said that Americas are poorly served by the media, and that \"the take on Fox News is that's not actually news\" and now \"they have to make it bad news, they have to make into maybe a scandal itself.\"\n\nOn the edition of October 24 of Fox News' \"Special Report with Bret Baier\", syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer claimed that a State Department e-mail, which passed along a report from Embassy Tripoli that Ansar al-Sharia had claimed responsibility for the attack on Facebook and Twitter, proved that the White House knew of terrorist connections to the attack almost immediately. Krauthammer stated, \"This is really a journalistic scandal. I mean, the fact there was not a word about any of this in the [New York] Times or the [Washington] Post today.\" However, the day after the Benghazi attack, Ansar al-Sharia issued a statement saying that the attack was in part \"a spontaneous popular uprising in response to what happened by the West,\" which was an apparent reference to the Innocence of Muslims video.\n\nConservative pundit Jonah Goldberg of the \"National Review\" stated that on NBC's \"Meet the Press\", host David Gregory changed the subject when a guest raised the subject of the Benghazi attack, saying, \"Let's get to Libya a little bit later\", but never returned to the subject.\n\nOn November 26, 2012, journalist Tom Ricks went on Fox News' \"Happening Now\" with Jon Scott to discuss the attack. While being interviewed on Fox News by Jon Scott, Ricks accused Fox News of being \"extremely political\" in its coverage of the attack and said that \"Fox was operating as a wing of the Republican Party.\" Ricks accused the network of covering the story more than it needed to be. The interview was cut short and Ricks and the interview was not mentioned or covered by Fox News again. Fox News was subsequently criticized for cutting the interview short. In an interview with the Associated Press, Fox News' White House correspondent Ed Henry suggested that he thought Benghazi was being covered too much by the network. Henry said, \"We've had the proper emphasis, but I would not be so deluded to say that some of our shows, some of our commentators, have covered it more than it needed to be covered.\"\n\nThere were ten investigations into the Benghazi matter: one by the FBI; one by an independent board commissioned by the State Department; two by Democrat-controlled Senate Committees; and six by Republican-controlled House Committees. After the first five Republican investigations found no evidence of wrongdoing by senior Obama administration officials, Republicans in 2014 opened a sixth investigation, the House Select Committee on Benghazi, chaired by Trey Gowdy. This investigation also failed to find any evidence of wrongdoing by senior Obama administration officials. A possible political motive for the investigation was revealed on September 29, 2015, when Republican House majority leader Kevin McCarthy, then vying to become Speaker of the House, told Sean Hannity on Fox News that the investigation was part of a \"strategy to fight and win,' adding \"Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping.\"\n\nShortly after the Benghazi attack, Secretary of State Clinton commissioned an independent Accountability Review Board to investigate, chaired by retired ambassador Thomas R. Pickering with vice-chair retired Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Michael Mullen. The Board released their final report on December 19, 2012. It made 29 recommendations to the State Department on how to improve its operations, which Clinton pledged to implement. As part of this investigation, four career State Department officials were criticized for denying requests for additional security at the facility prior to the attack. By the end of 2012, Eric J. Boswell, the Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security, resigned under pressure, while three others were suspended. None of the other Benghazi investigations identified wrongdoing by any individuals.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Benghazi's final report was released on June 28, 2016 and the committee closed down five months later. No further public investigations have been conducted since.\n\nThe findings of the two-year investigation by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee, the fifth of six Republican investigations, was summarized by the \"Associated Press\" on November 21, 2014:\n\nFreedom of Information Act requests have been made since the attack. The conservative foundation Judicial Watch filed a FOIA request to the Department of State on December 19, 2012. An acknowledgement of the request was received by Judicial Watch on January 4, 2013. When the State Department failed to respond to the request by February 4, 2013, Judicial Watch filed a lawsuit, which resulted in seven photographs being delivered on June 6, 2013. Three of the photographs show Arabic-language spray paint graffiti. According to preliminary translations provided to the U.K. MailOnline by the Investigative Project on Terrorism, the graffiti likely reads \"Thrones of HamzaIn\"; \"Allah-u Akbar\" (\"God is Great\"); and \"Unity of ranks\".\n\nOn May 30, 2013 it was reported that the Republican National Committee filed a FOIA for \"any and all emails or other documents containing the terms 'Libya' and/or 'Benghazi' dated between September 11, 2012 and November 7, 2012 directed from or to U.S. Department of State employees originating from, or addressed to, persons whose email addresses end in either 'barackobama.com' or 'dnc.org'.\n\nOn April 18, 2014, the conservative group Judicial Watch released more than 100 pages of documents obtained through a FOIA lawsuit. One email, dated September 14, 2012, with a subject line \"RE PREP CALL with Susan: Saturday at 4:00 pm ET\", was from deputy national security advisor for strategic communications Rhodes stated: \"Goals: ... To underscore that these protests are rooted in an Internet video, and not a broader failure of policy...\" According to another e-mail obtained by Judicial Watch, when asked about whether the attack was linked to the Mohammad video, State Department spokesperson Victoria Nuland said she \"could not confirm a connect as we simply don't know—and we won't know until there is an investigation\".\n\nAccording to \"The Wall Street Journal\", the e-mail was written to prepare U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice for her appearances on Sunday news shows two days later, and it \"sets out the Administration's view of the cause of the Benghazi attacks\". John Dickerson of \"Slate\" says the e-mail refers to the worldwide protests to \"Innocence of Muslims\" and not the Benghazi attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35101687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35101687", "title": "Apple Feast of the Saviour", "text": "Apple Feast of the Saviour\n\nThe Apple Feast of the Saviour (sometimes the Feast of the Saviour on the Hill) is an Eastern Slavic folk name for the Feast of the Transfiguration, which is observed on August 19.\n\nIt is the second of the three Feasts of the Saviour. The others are the \"Honey Feast of the Saviour\", which is celebrated on August 14 (or August 1, Julian Calendar) and the \"Nut Feast of the Saviour\", which is celebrated on August 29 (or August 16, Julian Calendar).\n\nThe holiday has a pre-Christian origin and is associated with harvesting of ripe fruits, especially apples. In the Byzantine Empire there was tradition to bless harvested grapes during the Feast of Transfiguration. In Russia, apples are more common than grapes, hence the name of the feast. There are processions and blessings of harvests. Usually, on that day, people from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus eat apples, apple pies, or other dishes containing apples, even if they are not Orthodox Christians.\n"}
{"id": "45451250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45451250", "title": "BAALS Music Festival", "text": "BAALS Music Festival\n\nBAALS is a music festival which is primarily focused on electronic dance music, dance music and jam bands. The festival takes place in the city of Fort Wayne, Indiana and has been organized since 2012. Each year the festival earmarks and donates $5,000 to a local charity, cause or nonprofit. The first edition of the festival took place in 2012 as a downtown block part called House 4 a House. In 2014 the festival expanded to Headwaters Park at which point it changed its name to the BAALS Music Festival.\n\nThe event began on July 13, 2012 as a downtown block party entitled House4aHouse. The host of the event was an advocacy group called A Better Fort who coincided the block party with another festival called The Three Rivers Festival. This block party raised $5,000, donated it to a local non-profit and garnered 2,000 attendees in its first year. Around the inaugural year the city of Fort Wayne endured ridicule, including multiple skits on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", as the city explored naming a government building the “Harry Baals Government Center” after a former city Mayor.\n\nIn 2014, festival leaders changed the event name to BAALS citing the reason for the name change is to take the recently publicized stereotypes and poke fun at them. That same year the festival amassed 10,000 attendees between the two-part series and moved to Headwaters Park in downtown Fort Wayne.\n\nThe BAALS Music Festival donates up to $5,000 each year to a selected local charity. In its first three years under A Better Fort, the festival donated a total of $15,000 to the Mad Anthony Children’s Hope House.\n\n"}
{"id": "2547445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547445", "title": "Black Thursday", "text": "Black Thursday\n\nBlack Thursday is a term used to refer to negative events which occurred on a Thursday. It has been used in the following cases:\n\n"}
{"id": "42735394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42735394", "title": "Burton and Speke (novel)", "text": "Burton and Speke (novel)\n\nBurton and Speke is a 1982 historical novel by William Harrison recounting the 1857 expedition of the search for the source of the Nile by the famous Victorian explorer, linguist and anthropologist Sir Richard Burton and English aristocrat and amateur hunter John Hanning Speke. The book was adapted for film in 1990 by Harrison and director Bob Rafelson.\n\nAlthough both Burton and Speke were former military officers the expedition they agreed to undertake together was, according to the author, fated to be disastrous for them both, despite their ultimate success. They had no common bond, apart from their military service with the British Army and their typical British upper class Victorian upbringing, and were so dissimilar in character and moral beliefs as to be quite incomprehensible to each other.\n\nWithin a month of their departure from Mombasa on the East African coast into the unknown interior of Kenya the two men were barely speaking. The repressed and racially bigoted Speke felt that Burton was a lackadaisical wastrel, more interested in whoring and passing the time with natives and Arab traders than in the enterprise at hand and Burton believed the dyslexic Speke to be stupid and incompetent, unable even to learn how to use simple measuring devices, vital to serious exploration. \nDespite these obvious drawbacks however, it is Speke who eventually discovers Lake Victoria as the source of the Nile, due to Burton falling seriously ill with malaria and having to be left behind in an Arab trading camp.\n\nHere their mutual antipathy turns to bitter enmity when Speke, breaking his word to Burton, claims sole credit for the discovery. Unfortunately for Speke his lack of accurate readings and sloppy map making skills lead the scientific world to doubt his word. Speke dies from a self-inflicted gunshot wound shortly before he and Burton were due to take part in a public debate regarding the controversy.\n\n\"Mountains of the Moon\" (1992) was directed by Bob Rafelson and starred Patrick Bergin and Iain Glen.\n"}
{"id": "58265453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58265453", "title": "Chaos Constructions", "text": "Chaos Constructions\n\nChaos Constructions is the oldest computer art festival originally related to demoscene subculture, the biggest in Russia. It has been held as a demoparty since 1995 and was called \"ENLiGHT\" until 1999. Traditionally it is held on a weekend at the end of August at Saint Petersburg, Russia. Creative competitions for computer artists and musicians, as well as programmers, are the important part of the event. The competitions (\"compos\") are both for pre-released and real-time works. Many of the compos and exhibits are related to retro computing (ASCII art, pixel art, tracker music, chiptune etc), but recent festivals also tend to include conferences and meetings for people from the modern IT industry who concentrate on technologies such as augmented/virtual reality, blockchain, robotics and more.\n\nThe demoscene () began to form in CIS countries in the early 1990s, when people massively began to possess home computers such as ZX Spectrum, Amiga and Atari and make tracker music, demos and other artwork on them. They were exchanging it using floppy disks, FIDOnet and later the Internet, so that these artists joined the worldwide demoscene culture. By the year 1995, the first Russian demoparty occurred, located in St. Petersburg—the second-largest Russian city, situated close to Finland, the country with one of the strongest demoscene cultures.\n\nThe demoparty was entitled ENLiGHT; it gathered around 150 people. It was followed by ENLiGHT'96 and ENLiGHT'97; the latter gathered more than 1200 people.\n\nThe year 1998 was skipped, and the 1999 festival was held in a new format and under the new name \"Chaos Constructions\".\n\nIn 2006 the event's format was shifted closer to a LAN party.\n\nThe 2017 festival featured an extra event called \"ChaosConf\" which was aimed at developers and admins of enterprise IT systems.\n\nThe 2018 festival was held at a co-working location called \"Boiling Point\" and also featured \"enterprise\" and \"telecom\" sections. There were several thematic areas; the party went for 2 days without breaking at night. Twitch.tv broadcast it online, and international English-speaking people also participated. The festival's crew also had arranged an \"embassy\" at a similar earlier gathering called Geek Picnic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21755966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21755966", "title": "Christian music festival", "text": "Christian music festival\n\nA Christian music festival (also known as a Jesus music festival or simply a Jesus festival) is a music festival held by the Christian community, in support of performers of Christian music. The festivals are characterized by more than just music; many feature motivational speakers and evangelists, and include seminars on Christian spiritual and missions topics, service, and evangelism. They are often viewed as evangelical tools, and small festivals can draw 10 times the crowd of traditional revival meetings. While the central theme of a Christian festival is Jesus Christ, the core appeal of a Christian music festival remains the artists and their music. Critics point out that the dichotomy of business and religious interests can be problematic for Christian festivals. In similar ways as the Christian music industry in general, festivals can be drawn away from their central theme and gravitate toward commercialization and mainstream acts in an attempt to draw crowds.\nThough Christian music festivals had been held prior to it, 1972 is seen as a pivotal year for Christian music due to the Explo '72 event, which was concluded by a massive music festival. Today Christian music festivals are held regularly throughout the United States and around the world. Christian music festivals were often supported by evangelical organizations; this is still true today, however, there are a number of free-standing festivals as well. Christian festivals are sometimes attached as secondary events to youth conferences, revival meetings, or billed as a part of a weekend package at theme parks. In 1999 the Gospel Music Association estimated the commercial revenue of Christian music festivals in the United States at approximately $22 million, with a combined attendance of over one-half million people. Christian music festivals continued to grow significantly into the 2000s, with the number of large festivals rising, and the formation of a representative organization for the festivals themselves.\n\nWhile counter-culture is generally accepted many attendees dress conservatively, and unlike their mainstream counterparts Christian music festivals are relatively free of alcohol and drug use. Even at the Explo '72 festival, which was attended by 150,000 or more people, police reported a trouble free event.\n\nIn the early days of the Jesus People movement Christian events were sometimes held as part of secular music festivals. As the genre of Jesus music gained artists, its followers began to sponsor festivals, mimicking secular events such as Woodstock and Monterey Pop Festival. One of the first events, the Youth for Christ sponsored Faith Festival, was first held in 1970 in Evansville, Indiana. The event drew enough attention that the following year it garnered coverage by CBS and attracted about 15,000. Artists at the Faith Festival included Pat Boone, Gene Cotton, Danny Taylor, Crimson Bridge, and \"e\", a band which included Greg X. Volz. The attention that the Faith Festivals drew made them prototypes for future Christian music festivals.\n\nAlso in 1970, Asbury Theological Seminary professor Robert Lyon founded the Ichthus Music Festival, which is presently the longest running Christian music festival. \"The Hollywood Free Paper\", a publication about the Jesus people movement, sponsored festivals in California and other areas of the United States. In 1971 the \"Love Song Festival\", sponsored by Maranatha! Music, was held at Knott's Berry Farm. Attendance was reported to be 20,000, a park record at the time, and artists included Love Song, The Way, Blessed Hope, and the Children of the Day. In late 1971 \"Christianity Today\" summarized four festivals that had taken place during the summer season. The same article described the artists who appeared at a Santa Barbara, California event, including Gentle Faith, Tom Howard, Ron Salsbury, The Bridge, and Randy Stonehill, as being \"veterans of Jesus rock festivals\".\n\n1972 is seen as a pivotal year for Christian music festivals due to a crusade and evangelism training event called Explo '72, held in Dallas, Texas. Explo was sponsored by the World Conference on Missions and Campus Crusade for Christ. The week-long event was attended by 80,000 registered attendees and concluded with a day-long music festival. The attendance of the final event was reported by \"Life\" magazine at 150,000 and was characteristic by Billy Graham as a \"religious Woodstock.\" The Explo '72 roster contained artists in a variety of genres including performers Larry Norman, Love Song, Andrae Crouch, and Johnny Cash. Explo '72 was a watershed event for the fledgling Jesus Music genre, and was the most visible event of the Jesus People movement. It is also the largest Christian music festival ever recorded; some critics even credit Explo with jump-starting the Christian music industry.\n\nEarly Christian music festivals were noted for their conservatism, often limiting their artistic expression to \"safe, middle-of-the-road acts.\" The Jesus Festival, which was founded in 1973, offers a few illustrative incidents. In their inaugural year they hired a promoter, Tim Landis, who brought in acts such as 2nd Chapter of Acts, Pat Terry, and Phil Keaggy. The conservative owners, who wanted a family oriented music festival, found the music \"a little too racy\" and fired him. The following year at the same festival, Randy Matthews was chased off stage by a crowd which pronounced him to be demon or drug possessed due to his musical style and his announcement of an impending tour with Lynyrd Skynyrd and ZZ Top. Matthews was later dropped from the tour roster.\nThe number and size of Christian music festivals continued to grow alongside the Christian music industry. By the mid 1970s festivals had appeared in all parts of the country. Tim Landis went on to found the Creation Festival in 1979, which was designed to appeal the youth, and has become one of the largest Christian festivals in the United States. For several years Creation was held at the same venue as the Jesus Festival, the Agape Farm, only a few weeks apart. More specialized festivals appeared to fill niche markets within the industry. The first completely rock music oriented festival was held in 1981. Called Illinois Jam, it featured artists including Barnabas, Servant, Randall Waller, and Randy Stonehill. Christian metal festivals also emerged, particularly in the late 1980s. One such festival was held in Carson, California in September 1987. The lineup was entirely Christian metal bands and included Guardian, Barren Cross, Vengeance Rising, and many smaller bands.\nWhile the members of Jesus People USA had long been involved in Christian festivals around the country, the Chicago organization founded the Cornerstone Festival in 1984. Seeing the trend toward conservatism, Cornerstone was designed to set itself apart by being artistically unrestrictive. Its design came from the counter-culture of JPUSA itself, with an intent to appeal to an audience that may not have been attracted to more conservative forms of music. As \"Cornerstone\" magazine editor Jon Trott later characterized it: \"Cornerstone would be to Jesus festivals what Seven Up was to cola: the \"unfestival\".\" Their slogan in 1984 was \"More Rock And Roll Than Anyone Has Dared\"; Artists included Kerry Livgren, Resurrection Band, The Choir, Joe English, and the Sweet Comfort Band. Cornerstone was one of the premier Christian music festivals, and was most influential promoting groups on the fringe of Christian music. The last Cornerstone Festival was held in 2012, citing the difficult economy.\n\nIn the 1990s the contemporary Christian music industry experienced explosive growth and saw the establishment of new festivals as well. The most significant of these are Purple Door and Tomfest, the latter of which regularly holds mini-festivals in diverse parts of the country. Since the turn of the century traveling tours such as Festival Con Dios and Shout Fest have appeared. They are often similar in structure to their secular counterparts such as Vans Warped Tour or Lolapalooza, offering extreme sports and a carnival-like atmosphere. Throughout the 2000s, the attendance at United States festivals grew significantly. According to one source, the number of Christian music festivals attended by more than 5000 youths grew from five in the year 2000 to 35 in 2006. As a result of this growth, many US festivals have formed a collective organization, the Christian Festival Association, to represent their interests.\n\nLifeLight Communications started an annual LifeLight Music Festival in 1998 which now occurs over Labor Day weekend on farmland near Worthing, South Dakota.\n\nChristian music festivals now exist throughout the world. The Greenbelt festival, founded in 1974 in the United Kingdom, was at one time one of the largest recurring Christian event in the world. Germany is host to several festivals; four of the most notable are Christmas Rock Night, Freakstock, Himmelfahrt-Festival and Rock Without Limits. In greater Europe notable festivals include Flevo and EO-Youth Day in the Netherlands, Seaside Festival in Norway, the Big Boss' Festival in Switzerland, the Song of Songs Festival in Poland, Festival Lumen in Slovakia and Frizon Festival in Sweden.\nIn 2014 the first Christian music festival is being held in Hungary (named Cross Sound).\n\nA sanctioned Christian festival was held in 1989 in Tallinn, Soviet Estonia. The festival featured performances by American artists such as Sheila Walsh, Bruce Carroll, Paul Smith, and Scott Wesley Brown, and had an attendance of 15,000. This was reported to be the first such festival. In 1992, after the Fall of the Iron Curtain, a Christian music festival was held in St. Petersburg, Russia. Dubbed as a \"Christian arts festival\", the event included acts to appeal to all ages from a variety of styles, largely representing greater Europe and North America. The event also included orchestras from the UK and Russia, and Russian headliner Boris Grebenshchikov. The shows, which were organized by Youth With A Mission, sold out 10,000 tickets well in advance.\n\nFrom 1992–2014, New Zealand hosted the Southern Hemisphere's largest Christian festival, the annual Parachute Music Festival. It attracted a large number of non-Christians.\n\nIn Brazil, in the city of Fortaleza, Ceará annually happens Halleluya Festival, which brings together music from the various attractions theatrical performances and dance. Is among the largest Catholic music festivals in the world, and in its latest edition the record crowd of 300,000 people in one day, and more than 1 million people over the five days of the Festival. The event is held by Catholic Community Shalom. The Halleluya Festival has editions in several Brazilian cities such as Brasília, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, and also outside the country as in Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "29532708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29532708", "title": "City Theater (Biddeford, Maine)", "text": "City Theater (Biddeford, Maine)\n\nBiddeford City Theater is a restored Victorian opera house at 205 Main Street in Biddeford, Maine, United States. City Theater produces and hosts theater, dance and music performances year-round and aims to, “foster an appreciation for the performing arts by using creative avenues to increase community involvement.”\n\nCity Theater is part of the Biddeford City Hall complex, designed by Maine architect John Calvin Stevens in 1895. The building is included on the National Register of Historic Places, and is a contributing element to the Biddeford Main Street Historic District.\n\nBiddeford's City Theater originally opened as an opera house in October 1860 at its present Main Street location as a part of the Biddeford City Hall complex. The opera house enjoyed a high level of popularity in the Biddeford and Southern Maine region until burning down December 30, 1894. Whether to rebuild the opera house was debated, the city eventually settled on rebuilding a more structurally sound opera house.\n\nArchitect John Calvin Stevens was chosen to design the new city hall and opera house, which opened January 20, 1896. The opera house again became a favorite site for cultural and entertainment attractions. Through to the 1920s it brought vaudeville, minstrel shows, illustrated songs, dramatic performances and even community pageants and plays to the Southern Maine community.\n\nThe introduction of talkies in 1928 began the transition from opera house to movie theater. In 1955, “improvements” to its interior were made, including panelling of the lobby and its staircase and addition poster displays and a cinemascope screen. The name of the opera house was at this time officially changed to Biddeford's City Theater.\n\nHowever, with the increased popularity of drive-ins and television, City Theater had closed its doors by 1963 and remained closed until 1978. In the interim, Biddeford's City Theater was used as a storage facility for the city and, at one point, a horse-shoe pit, complete with a pile of sand dumped in the orchestra pit. Ironically, also during this period, in 1973 Biddeford's City Theater was added to the National Register of Historical Places.\n\nIn 1977, the newly incorporated City Theater Associates launched a campaign to renovate and re-open the opera house. Thus, a year later, the internationally popular Norman Luboff Choir opened for Biddeford's City Theater's first performance season in nearly 50 years.\n\nThough great improvements were made to its interior during the re-opening, City Theater was still in great need of restoration. It was not until the 1990s, when City Theater celebrated its centennial, that the theater received a full restoration. Funding was provided by local, state and federal governments along with private donations from local businesses and individuals. A new marquee, re-stenciling of the lobby and house walls and ceilings and new sound and lighting were among the improvements made.\n\nCurrent renovations to Biddeford's City Theater include re-pointing the exterior brickwork and improving the stage floor and restrooms.\n\nCity Theater currently runs a year-round season of theater, music and dance performances. Additionally, the theater has recently added community theater and youth opera and developed an ongoing relationship with the University of New England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12859295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12859295", "title": "Clothing scam companies", "text": "Clothing scam companies\n\nClothing scam companies are companies or gangs that purport to be collecting second-hand clothes for charities or to be working for charitable causes, when they are in fact working for themselves, giving little if anything to charitable causes. They are a particular problem in the UK, where they rely on people's awareness of proper charities established practise of collecting used clothes for good causes. These companies cause major problems for established charities in terms of lost donations and making the public distrustful of all clothes collectors.\n\nA popular tactic of clothing scam companies is to leaflet a particular area and then move on before people become aware that the company is a clothing scam company. These leaflets will often illegally claim that they are either charities or working for established charities. Often they will state in small print that they are a commercial company, but will prominently place wording that implies they are, often quoting very vague charitable aims such as 'third world collection' etc.\n\nThese companies are very difficult to prosecute as frequently they are not in fact companies at all, quoting fictitious company names or someone else's company name, when in fact they are just a gang of people getting together to resell used-clothes. Many clothing scam companies use casual labour to deliver the leaflets and collect bags of clothing. They are not officially employed by the clothing scam company, which doesn't keep a record of the people they use that can be checked.\n\n"}
{"id": "37141180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37141180", "title": "Cold Springs Fire", "text": "Cold Springs Fire\n\nThe Cold Springs Fire started July 12, 2008, eleven miles north of Trout Lake in Washington. It was contained and put out in August 2008.\n\nThe fire was started by lightning on July 12 and spread rapidly through heavy dead timber, eventually burning a total of 7,993 acres before full containment was reached on August 1. Of the area burned, 4,723 acres were in the Gifford Pinchot National Forest, 1,623 on the Yakama Indian Reservation, 1,076 on land managed by the Washington Department of Natural Resources, and 307 on privately owned lands. At the peak of firefighting efforts, over 1,000 personnel were assigned to combat the blaze. In total, 1,037 firefighters from 33 units were needed to reach containment.\n\nThe fire neared Mount Adams as it spread north of Trout Lake causing closings for several trails and camp grounds. Fire officials said it was the largest fire the area had received in decades, and the dangerous fire conditions allowed it to grow and spread quickly through dead trees and winds up to 25 mph. However, people were expecting a large fire and had been preparing so that no homes or people were threatened in the event. Although no structures were burned, a 1909 historic guard station had to be wrapped in fire-retardant material.\n"}
{"id": "13869376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13869376", "title": "Consequences of the attack on Pearl Harbor", "text": "Consequences of the attack on Pearl Harbor\n\nThe results of the attack on Pearl Harbor were many and significant.\n\nPrior to the attack, public opinion in the United States had not been unanimous. When polled in January 1940, 60% of Americans were in favor of helping the United Kingdom in the war. A majority of Americans believed that the safety of the United States was contingent on the UK winning the war, and an even larger majority believed that the UK would lose the war if the United States stopped sending war materials to the United Kingdom. Despite this, the same poll reported that 88% of Americans would not support entering the war against Germany and Italy.\n\nAmericans were more unsure on the prospect of conflict with Japan around the same timeframe. In a February Gallup poll, a majority of Americans believed that the United States should intervene in Japan's conquest of the Dutch East Indies and Singapore. However, in the same poll, only 39% supported going to war with Japan, while 46% opposed the prospect.\n\nPublic support for assisting the United Kingdom rose through 1940, reaching about 65% by May 1941. However, opinions on the prospect of becoming involved against Germany and Italy still remained quite high with 80% disapproval.\n\nOn December 7, 1941, the Japanese launched a surprise attack on the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor. After two hours of bombing, 18 U.S. ships were sunk or damaged, 188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed, and 2,403 men were killed.\n\nThe day after the attack, President Franklin D. Roosevelt addressed a joint session of the 77th United States Congress. Roosevelt called December 7 \"a date which will live in infamy\". Congress declared war on the Empire of Japan amid outrage at the attack, the deaths of thousands of Americans, and the late delivery of the note from the Japanese government breaking off relations with the U.S. government. Pacifist Representative Jeannette Rankin, a Republican from Montana, cast the only dissenting vote. Roosevelt signed the declaration of war later the same day. Continuing to intensify its military mobilization, the U.S. government finished converting to a war economy, a process begun by provision of weapons and supplies to the Soviet Union and the British Empire. Japanese Americans from the West Coast were sent to internment camps for the duration of the war.\n\nThe attack on Pearl Harbor immediately galvanized a divided nation into action. Public opinion had been moving towards support for entering the war during 1941, but considerable opposition remained until the attack. Overnight, Americans united against the Empire of Japan in response to calls to \"Remember Pearl Harbor.\" A poll taken between December 12–17, 1941, showed that 97% of respondents supported a declaration of war against Japan. Further polling showed a dramatic increase in support for every able-bodied man serving in the military, up to 70% in December 1941. American solidarity in the war effort probably made possible the unconditional surrender position later taken by the Allied Powers. Some historians, among them Samuel Eliot Morison, believe the attack doomed Imperial Japan to defeat simply because it awakened the \"sleeping giant\", regardless of whether the fuel depots or machine shops had been destroyed or even if the carriers had been caught in port and sunk. U.S. industrial and military capacity, once mobilized, was able to pour overwhelming resources into both the Pacific and Atlantic theaters. Others, such as Clay Blair, Jr., and Mark Parillo believe Japanese trade protection was so incompetent that American submarines alone might have strangled Japan into defeat.\n\nThe closest friend Roosevelt had in the developing Allied alliance, Sir Winston Churchill, stated that his first thought regarding American assistance to the United Kingdom was that \"We have won the war\" very soon after Pearl Harbor had been attacked.\n\nPerceptions of treachery in the attack before a declaration of war sparked fears of sabotage or espionage by Japanese sympathizers residing in the U.S., including citizens of Japanese descent, and was a factor in the subsequent Japanese internment in the western United States. Other factors included misrepresentations of intelligence information suggesting sabotage, notably by General John DeWitt, commanding general of Western Defense Command on the Pacific Coast, who had personal feelings against Japanese Americans. In February 1942, Roosevelt signed United States Executive Order 9066, requiring all Japanese Americans to submit themselves for internment.\n\nPropaganda made repeated use of the attack, because its effect was enormous and impossible to counter. \"Remember Pearl Harbor!\" became the watchwords of the war.\n\nThe American government understated the damage inflicted, in hopes of preventing the Japanese from learning it, but the Japanese had, through surveillance, a good estimate.\n\nOn December 8, 1941, Japan declared war on the United States and the British Empire. The Japanese document discussed world peace and the disruptive actions of the United States and the United Kingdom. The document claimed all avenues for averting war had been exhausted by the Government of Japan.\n\nAlthough the Imperial Japanese government had made some effort to prepare their population for war \"via\" anti-U.S. propaganda, it appears most Japanese were surprised, apprehensive, and dismayed by the news they were now at war with the U.S., a country many of them admired. Nevertheless, the people at home and overseas thereafter generally accepted their government's account of the attack and supported the war effort until their nation's surrender in 1945.\n\nJapan's national leadership at the time appeared to have believed war between the U.S. and Japan had long been inevitable. In any case, Japanese-American relationships had already significantly deteriorated since Japan's invasion of China beginning in the early 1930s, of which the United States strongly disapproved. In 1942, Saburō Kurusu, former Japanese ambassador to the United States, gave an address in which he talked about the \"historical inevitability of the war of Greater East Asia.\" He said war had been a response to Washington's longstanding aggression toward Japan. For example, in his view provocations against Japan included the San Francisco School incident, Naval Limitations Treaty, other unequal treaties, the Nine Power Pact, constant economic pressure against Japan, culminating in the \"belligerent\" scrap metal and oil embargo in 1941 by the United States and Allied countries to contain and/or reverse the actions of the Empire of Japan especially in Indochina during her expansion of influence and interests throughout Asia.\n\nIn light of Japan's dependence on imported oil, the trade embargoes were especially significant. These pressures directly influenced Japan to go into alliance with Germany and Italy through the Tripartite Pact. According to Kurusu, because of these reasons, the Allies had already provoked war with Japan long before the attack at Pearl Harbor, and the United States was already preparing for war with Japan. Kurusu also stated, falsely, that the United States was looking for world domination, beyond just Asia, with \"sinister designs\". Some of this view seems to have been shared by Adolf Hitler, when he called it one of the reasons Germany declared war on the United States. He also had mentioned European imperialism toward Japan many years before. Therefore, according to Kurusu, Japan had no choice but to defend itself and so should rapidly continue to militarize, bring Germany and Italy closer as allies and militarily combat the United States, Britain, and the Netherlands.\n\nJapan's leaders also saw themselves as justified in their conduct, believing that they were building the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. They also explained Japan had done everything possible to alleviate tension between the two nations. The decision to attack, at least for public presentation, was reluctant and forced on Japan. Of the Pearl Harbor attack itself, Kurusu said it came in direct response to a virtual ultimatum from the U.S. government, the Hull note, and so the surprise attack was not treacherous. Since the Japanese-American relationship already had hit its lowest point, there was no alternative; in any case, had an acceptable settlement of differences been reached, the Carrier Striking Task Force could have been called back.\n\nOn December 11, 1941, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy declared war on the United States, and the United States reciprocated, formally entering the war in Europe.\n\nGerman dictator Adolf Hitler and Italian dictator Benito Mussolini were under no obligation to declare war on the United States under the mutual defense terms of the Tripartite Pact until the US counterattacked Japan. However, relations between the European Axis Powers and the United States had deteriorated since 1937. On December 4, 1941, the Germans learned of the U.S. military's contingency planning to get troops in Continental Europe by 1943; this was Rainbow Five, made public by sources unsympathetic to Roosevelt's New Deal, and published by the \"Chicago Tribune\" on that date. Moreover, with Roosevelt's initiation of a Neutrality Patrol, which in fact also escorted British ships, as well as orders to U.S. Navy destroyers first to actively report U-boats, then \"shoot on sight\", American neutrality was honored more in the breach than observance.\n\nHaving been unaware of Japanese plans, Hitler was initially furious that the United States had been dragged into the war at a time when he had not yet acquired full control of continental Europe — on the very day of the Pearl Harbor attack, Hitler himself had issued his Nacht und Nebel decree, concerning the suppression of resistance activities within Nazi-occupied lands. Hitler, who had previously declared the Japanese \"Honorary Aryans\" claimed that \"this is what happens when your allies are not Anglo-Saxons\". However, he decided war with the United States was unavoidable, and the Pearl Harbor attack, the publication of Rainbow Five, and Roosevelt's post-Pearl Harbor address, which focused on European affairs as well as the situation with Japan, probably contributed to the declaration. Hitler expected the United States would soon declare war on Germany in any event. He disastrously underestimated American military production capacity, the United States' own ability to fight on two fronts, and the time his own Operation Barbarossa would require. Similarly, the Nazis may have hoped the declaration of war, a showing of solidarity with Japan, would result in closer collaboration with the Japanese in Eurasia, particularly against the Soviet Union — something that would not materialize, due to existing , as well as information submitted in mid-September 1941 by the Soviets' top spy in Japan, Richard Sorge, that the Japanese armed forces were not likely to abrogate any treaties between Japan and the Soviets unless:\n\nThe decision to declare war on the United States allowed the United States to enter the European war in support of the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union without much public opposition.\n\nEven as early as mid-March 1941, President Roosevelt was quite acutely aware of Hitler's hostility towards the United States, and the destructive potential it presented, in reference to Hitler's statement of a \"new order in Europe\" during the \"Führer's\" own Berlin Sportpalast speech of January 30, 1941, the eighth anniversary of the Nazis' \"Machtergreifung\":\n\nAuthor Ian Kershaw records Hitler's initial reaction to the attack, when he was first informed about it on the evening of 7 December at Führer Headquarters: \"We can't lose the war at all. We now have an ally which has never been conquered in 3,000 years\". Well before the attack, in 1928 Hitler had confided in the text of his then-unpublished \"Zweites Buch\" that while the Soviet Union was the most important immediate foe that the Third Reich had to defeat, the United States was the most important long-term challenge to Nazi aims.\n\nHitler awarded Imperial Japanese ambassador to Nazi Germany Hiroshi Ōshima the Grand Cross of the Order of the German Eagle in Gold (1st class) after the attack, praising Japan for striking hard and without first declaring war.\n\nThe war had been going poorly for the British Empire for more than two years, and Prime Minister Winston Churchill was deeply concerned about the future. On December 7, he was at his country estate, Chequers, with a few friends and his family. At dinner he seemed depressed, holding his face in his hands for minutes at a time . Just after dinner he heard of the attack. Churchill immediately, and correctly, surmised the consequences of the attack for the course of the war. \nFollowing the Japanese attack on the Americans, William Lyon Mackenzie King, the Prime Minister of the Dominion of Canada advised George VI, King of Canada, that a state of war should exist between Canada and Japan, and the King accordingly issued this proclamation on December 8:\nWhereas by and with the advice of our Privy Council for Canada we have signified our approval of the issue of a proclamation in the \"Canada Gazette\" declaring that a state of war with Japan exists and has existed in Canada as and from the 7th day of December 1941.\n\nNow, therefore, we do hereby declare and proclaim that a state of war with Japan exists and has existed as and from the seventh day of December 1941.\n\nOf all which our loving subjects and all others whom these presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.\nCanada remained focused on the European theatre, like the United States, and following VE Day was still in the process of transitioning its military force for a campaign in east Asia and the western Pacific when VJ Day arrived.\n\nPresident Roosevelt appointed the Roberts Commission, headed by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Owen Roberts, to investigate and report facts and findings with respect to the attack on Pearl Harbor. It was the first of many official investigations (nine in all). Both the Fleet commander, Rear Admiral Husband E. Kimmel, and the Army commander, Lieutenant General Walter Short (the Army had been responsible for air defense of Hawaii, including Pearl Harbor, and for general defense of the islands against hostile attack), were relieved of their commands shortly thereafter. They were accused of \"dereliction of duty\" by the Roberts Commission for not making reasonable defensive preparations. None of the investigations conducted during the War, nor the Congressional investigation afterward, provided enough reason to reverse those actions. The decisions of the Navy and War Departments to relieve both was controversial at the time and has remained so. However, neither was court-martialed as would normally have been the result of dereliction of duty. On May 25, 1999, the U.S. Senate voted to recommend both officers be exonerated on all charges, citing \"denial to Hawaii commanders of vital intelligence available in Washington\".\n\nA Joint Congressional Committee was also appointed, on September 14, 1945, to investigate the causes of the attack and subsequent disaster, and was convened on November 15, 1945.\n\nThe Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor coupled with their alliance with the Nazis and the ensuing war in the Pacific fueled anti-Japanese sentiment, racism, xenophobia, and anti-Axis sentiment in the Allied nations like never before. Japanese, Japanese-Americans and Asians having a similar physical appearance were regarded with deep seated suspicion, distrust and hostility. The attack was viewed as having been conducted in an extremely underhanded way and also as a very \"treacherous\" or \"sneaky attack\". Suspicions were further fueled by the \"Niihau Incident\", as historian Gordon Prange stated \"the rapidity with which the three resident Japanese went over to the pilot's cause\" which troubled the Hawaiians. \"The more pessimistic among them cited the Niihau Incident as proof that no one could trust any Japanese, even if an American citizen, not to go over to Japan if it appeared expedient.\"\n\nThe attack, the subsequent declarations of war, and fear of \"Fifth Columnists\" resulted in internment of Japanese, German, and Italian populations in the United States and others, for instance the Japanese American internment, German American internment, Italian American internment, and Japanese Canadian internment. The attack resulted in the United States fighting the Germans and Italians among others in Europe and Japan in the Pacific.\n\nThe consequences were world-changing. Prime Minister Winston Churchill knew that the survival of the British Empire depended on American aid, and since 1940 had frequently asked Roosevelt to declare war. Churchill aide John Colville stated that the prime minister and American Ambassador John Gilbert Winant, who also supported the British, \"sort of danced around the room together\" as the United States would now enter the war, making a British victory likely. Churchill later wrote, \"Being saturated and satiated with emotion and sensation, I went to bed and slept the sleep of the saved and thankful.\"\n\nBy opening the Pacific War, which ended in the unconditional surrender of Japan, the attack on Pearl Harbor led to the breaking of an Asian check on Soviet expansion. The Allied victory in this war and the subsequent U.S. emergence as a dominant world power, eclipsing Britain, have shaped international politics ever since.\n\nPearl Harbor is generally regarded as an extraordinary event in American history, remembered as the first time since the War of 1812 that America was attacked in strength on its territory by another country – with only the September 11 attacks almost 60 years later being of a similarly catastrophic scale. It was the first decisive defeat for the United States in World War II. It has become synonymous with \"surprise attack\" ever since in American parlance. The U.S. mistakes of intelligence collection, sharing, and analysis leading to the Japanese success at Pearl Harbor did not, in the end, lead to lessons learned.\n\nSome Japanese today feel they were compelled to fight because of threats to their national interests and an embargo imposed by the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. The most important embargo was on oil on which its Navy and much of the economy was dependent. For example, \"Japan Times\", an English-language newspaper owned by one of the major news organizations in Japan (Asahi Shimbun), ran numerous columns in the early 2000s echoing Kurusu's comments in reference to the Pearl Harbor attack.\n\nIn putting the Pearl Harbor attack into context, Japanese writers repeatedly contrast the thousands of U.S. non-combatants killed there with the hundreds of thousands of Japanese civilians killed in U.S. air attacks on Japan later in the war, even without mentioning the 1945 atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by the United States.\n\nHowever, in spite of the perceived inevitability of the war by many Japanese, many also believe the Pearl Harbor attack, although a tactical victory, was actually part of a seriously flawed strategy for engaging in war with the U.S. As one columnist wrote, \"The Pearl Harbor attack was a brilliant tactic, but part of a strategy based on the belief that a spirit as firm as iron and as beautiful as cherry blossoms could overcome the materially wealthy United States. That strategy was flawed, and Japan's total defeat would follow.\"\nIn 1991, the Japanese Foreign Ministry released a statement saying Japan had intended to make a formal declaration of war to the United States at 1 p.m. Washington time, 25 minutes before the attack at Pearl Harbor was scheduled to begin. This officially acknowledged something that had been publicly known for years. Diplomatic communications had been coordinated well in advance with the attack, but had failed delivery at the intended time. It appears the Japanese government was referring to the \"14-part message\", which did not actually break off negotiations, let alone declare war, but did officially raise the possibility of a break in relations. However, because of various delays, the Japanese ambassador was unable to deliver this message until well after the attack had begun.\n\nImperial Japanese military leaders appear to have had mixed feelings about the attack. Fleet Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto was unhappy about the botched timing of the breaking off of negotiations. He is on record as having said, in the previous year, \"I can run wild for six months ... after that, I have no expectation of success.\" The reports of American reactions, terming it a \"sneak attack\" and \"infamous behavior\", confirmed that the effect on American morale had been the opposite of intended.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Japan during World War II, Hideki Tōjō later wrote, \"When reflecting upon it today, that the Pearl Harbor attack should have succeeded in achieving surprise seems a blessing from Heaven.\"\n\nYamamoto had said, regarding the imminent war with the United States, \"Should hostilities once break out between Japan and the United States, it is not enough that we take Guam and the Philippines, nor even Hawaii and San Francisco. We would have to march into Washington and sign the treaty in the White House. I wonder if our politicians (who speak so lightly of a Japanese-American war) have confidence as to the outcome and are prepared to make the necessary sacrifices?\"\n\nThere are some revisionists in Japan who claim that the Attack on Pearl Harbor was a legitimate attack. These historical perspectives are often claimed by Japanese Shintoist and nationalists and have been criticized from both inside and outside Japan.\n\nWhile not specifically directed at revisionism, but more as a likely result of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's controversial visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, where some 1,600 war criminals were enshrined after their executions, by February 2015 some concern within the Imperial House of Japan — which normally does not issue such statements — over the issue was voiced by Crown Prince Naruhito. Naruhito stated on his 55th birthday (February 23, 2015) that it was \"important to look back on the past humbly and correctly\", in reference to Japan's role in World War II-era war crimes, and that he was concerned about the ongoing need to \"correctly pass down tragic experiences and the history behind Japan to the generations who have no direct knowledge of the war, at the time memories of the war are about to fade\".\n\nThe attack was notable for its considerable destruction, as putting most of the U.S. battleships out of commission was regarded—in both navies and by most military observers worldwide—as a tremendous success for Japan. Influenced by the earlier Battle of Taranto, which pioneered the all-aircraft naval attack but resulted in far less damage and casualties, the Japanese struck against Pearl Harbor on a much larger scale than did the British at Taranto.\n\nThe attack was a great shock to all the Allies in the Pacific Theater, and it was initially believed Pearl Harbor changed the balance of power, similar to how Taranto did the Mediterranean, both in the attackers' favor. Three days later, with the sinking of \"Prince of Wales\" and \"Repulse\" off the coast of Malaya, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill exclaimed, \"In all the war I never received a more direct shock. As I turned and twisted in bed the full horror of the news sank in upon me. There were no British or American capital ships in the Indian Ocean or the Pacific except the American survivors of Pearl Harbor who were hastening back to California. Over this vast expanse of waters Japan was supreme and we everywhere were weak and naked.\"\n\nHowever, Pearl Harbor did not have as crippling an effect on American operations as initially thought. Unlike the close confines of the Mediterranean, the vast expanses of the Pacific limited the tactical value of battleships as a fleet in being. Furthermore, unlike new fast battleships such as the , the slow battleships were incapable of operating with carrier task forces, so once repaired they were relegated to delivering pre-invasion bombardments during the island hopping offensive against Japanese-held islands. These Pearl Harbor veterans were later part of a force that defeated IJN battleships at the Battle of Surigao Strait, an engagement very lopsided in the USN's favor in any case. A major flaw of Japanese strategic thinking was a belief that the ultimate Pacific battle would be between battleships of both sides, in keeping with the doctrine of Captain Alfred Mahan. Seeing the decimation of battleships at the hands of aircraft, Yamamoto (and his successors) hoarded his battleships for a \"decisive battle\" that never happened, only committing a handful to the forefront of the Battles of Midway and Guadalcanal.\n\nOne of the main Japanese objectives was to destroy the three American aircraft carriers stationed in the Pacific, but they were not present: was returning from Wake, from Midway, and was under refit at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard. Had Japan sunk the American carriers, the U.S. would have sustained significant damage to the Pacific Fleet's ability to conduct offensive operations for a year or so (given no further diversions from the Atlantic Fleet). As it was, the elimination of the battleships left the U.S. Navy with no choice but to place its faith in aircraft carriers and submarines—particularly the large numbers under construction of the U.S. Navy's Essex-class aircraft carriers, eleven of which had been ordered before the attack—the very weapons with which the U.S. Navy halted and eventually reversed the Japanese advance.\n\nDespite the perception of this battle as a devastating blow to America, only three ships were permanently lost to the U.S. Navy. These were the battleships , , and the old battleship (then used as a target ship); nevertheless, much usable material was salvaged from them, including the two aft main turrets from \"Arizona\". The majority of each battleship's crews survived; there were exceptions as heavy casualties resulted from \"Arizona\" magazine exploding and the \"Oklahoma\" capsizing. Four ships sunk during the attack were later raised and returned to duty, including the battleships , and . \"California\" and \"West Virginia\" had an effective torpedo-defense system which held up remarkably well, despite the weight of fire they had to endure, resulting in most of their crews being saved. and suffered relatively light damage, as did , which was in drydock at the time.\n\nChester Nimitz said later, \"It was God's mercy that our fleet was in Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.\" Nimitz believed if Kimmel had discovered the Japanese approach to Pearl Harbor, he would have sortied to meet them. With the American carriers absent and Kimmel's battleships at a severe disadvantage to the Japanese carriers, the likely result would have been the sinking of the American battleships at sea in deep water, where they would have been lost forever with tremendous casualties (up to twenty thousand dead), instead of in Pearl Harbor, where the crews could easily be rescued, and six battleships ultimately restored to duty. This was also the reaction of Joseph Rochefort, head of , when he remarked the attack was cheap at the price.\n\nMany of the surviving battleships were extensively refitted, including the replacement of their outdated secondary battery of anti-surface 5\"/51 caliber guns with more useful turreted dual-purpose 5\"/38 caliber guns, allowing them to better cope with the new tactical reality. Addition of modern radar to the salvaged vessels would give them a marked qualitative advantage over those of the IJN.\n\nThe repaired U.S. battleships primarily provided fire support for amphibious landings. Their low speed was a liability to their deployment in the vast expanses of the Pacific, for instance they could not accompany the fleet carriers that had become the dominant combatants. Six of the Standard Type vessels participated in the last battleship versus battleship engagement in naval history, the Battle of Surigao Strait, where none of them were hit. During active duty, being well protected by escorts and air cover, none of the Pearl Harbor battleships suffered serious damage save for \"Pennsylvania\" which was permanently crippled by a torpedo in the closing stages of the war; on September 2, 1945, \"West Virginia\" was among the Allied fleet in Tokyo Bay when the Japanese officially surrendered.\n\nThe attack on Pearl Harbor failed to sight, or destroy, any of the Pacific Fleet's three aircraft carriers; they had been designated as primary targets along with the battleships. The carriers \"Lexington\" and \"Enterprise\" were ferrying additional fighters to American bases on the islands of Wake and Midway while \"Saratoga\" was under refit at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard. At the time of the Japanese attack, the US was expecting imminent war with Japan, beginning in any of several places, such as the Philippines or Allied bases in Borneo.\nNagumo's hesitation, and failure to find and destroy the American carriers, may have been a product of his lack of faith in the attack plan, and of the fact he was a gunnery officer, not an aviator. In addition, Yamamoto's targeting priorities, placing battleships first in importance, reflected an out-of-date Mahanian doctrine, and an inability to extrapolate from history, given the damage German submarines did to British trade in World War I. In the end, Japan achieved surprisingly little for all her daring and apparent success.\n\nTank farms, containing 140 million U.S. gallons (530 million liters) of bunker oil, were unscathed, providing a ready source of fuel for American fleets at the submarine base. About this missed opportunity, Admiral Chester Nimitz would later say, \"Had the Japanese destroyed the oil, it would have prolonged the war another two years.\" These were vital to the initial phase of the war, and to commerce raiding throughout, and illustrate the deficiencies of Japanese planning for the attack. The Navy Yard, critical to ship maintenance, and repair of ships damaged in the attack was untouched. The engineering and initial repair shops, as well as the torpedo store, were intact. Other items of base infrastructure and operation, such as power generation, continued to operate normally. Also critical to the way the Pacific War was actually fought was the cryptanalysis unit, Station , located in the basement of the old Administration Building. It was undamaged and even benefited by gaining staff from unemployed ship's bands.\n\nThe Army Air Force's loss of aircraft must be balanced against the fact that many of them were obsolete, such as the P-40's predecessor, the P-36. Japan might have achieved a good deal more with not much additional effort or loss.\n\nOf the 22 Japanese ships that took part in the attack, only one survived the war. As of 2006, the only U.S. ships in Pearl Harbor during the attack still remaining afloat are the Coast Guard Cutter \"Taney\" and the yard tug . Both remained active over 50 years after the attack and have been designated museum ships.\n\nA common view is that the Japanese fell victim to victory disease because of the perceived ease of their first victories. It has also been stated by the Japanese military commanders and politicians who visited and lived in the United States, that their leadership (mostly military personnel) took the war with the United States relatively lightly, compared to them. For instance, Admiral Yamamoto and General Tadamichi Kuribayashi expressed concerns about the greater industrial power of the United States.\n\nThe politics of a \"Europe First\" strategy, loss of air cover over Pearl Harbor, and subsequent loss of the Philippines, meant the U.S. Army and Army Air Forces were unable to play a significant role in the Pacific War for several months. Japan was temporarily free of worries about the major rival Pacific naval power, which was at least part of the intention for the attack. Because Australian, New Zealand, Dutch and most British forces were already in Europe, Japan conquered nearly all of Southeast Asia and the Southwest Pacific, and extended her reach far into the Indian Ocean, without significant interference. The various Japanese advances were a nearly complete tactical success.\n\nIn the long term, the attack on Pearl Harbor was a grand strategic blunder for Japan. Indeed, Admiral Yamamoto, who conceived it, predicted even success here could not win a war with the United States, because American productive capacity was too large. It spurred the United States into a determination to fight to complete victory. The war resulted in the destruction of the Japanese armed forces, the occupation of the home islands (a state never before achieved in Japan's history), and the occupation of Okinawa and the Ryukyu Islands by the United States until 1972, while the Soviet Russian re-annexation of the Kurile Islands and Sakhalin Island's southern part, and the restoration of Formosa (Taiwan) to China, and the loss of Korea have not been reversed to this day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5472283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5472283", "title": "Corrigan Oil 200", "text": "Corrigan Oil 200\n\nThe Corrigan Oil 200 is a NASCAR Gander Outdoors Truck Series race that takes place at Michigan International Speedway. The event was started in 1999 and was won by Greg Biffle. In 2001 Michigan did not hold a NASCAR Gander Outdoors Truck Series race because of date conflicts with the CART event which it had been associated. The 2004 race marked the first win for Toyota in a national NASCAR series when Travis Kvapil won for Bang! Racing.\n\n"}
{"id": "44785527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44785527", "title": "Da Vinci Days", "text": "Da Vinci Days\n\nDa Vinci Days is an annual festival held in Corvallis in the U.S. state of Oregon. Started in 1988, the last event was held in 2013. It will be taking place during the summer of 2017, over the week of May 12th-19th as well as the weekend of July 14th-16th.The science, technology, and art based festival includes live music, a kinetic sculpture race, and a film festival. The July festival is named after Italian inventor, artist, and writer, Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nDa Vinci Days began in 1988 as a joint project of Oregon State University, the city, and Hewlett-Packard. The festival was not held in 2014 and 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6689441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689441", "title": "Daly's Theatre", "text": "Daly's Theatre\n\nDaly's Theatre was a theatre in the City of Westminster. It was located at 2 Cranbourn Street, just off Leicester Square. It opened on 27 June 1893, and was demolished in 1937.\n\nThe theatre was originally built for American producer Augustin Daly by the English theatre manager George Edwardes. The architect was Spencer Chadwick, who was assisted by C. J. Phipps. The theatre was one of the first in London to be built using the cantilever system, and the Italian Renaissance and neo-classical facade was more elaborate than that of most London theatres. Likewise, the entrance hall and foyer were elaborately executed and decorated. The Victorian style to minimize colouring and design in the auditorium was abandoned, and instead bold designs and colours were used. It had a seating capacity of over 1,200 in three tiers.\n\nThe theatre opened with \"The Taming of the Shrew\", with Daly's star from his American company, Ada Rehan, playing Katharina. This was followed by Sheridan Knowles's \"The Hunchback\", with Violet Vanbrugh, and in 1894 by \"Twelfth Night\" and \"As You Like It\" and the younger Dumas's \"La Dame aux camélias\", with Eleonora Duse.\n\nIn 1894, Edwardes took over management of the theatre himself. He hired Sidney Jones as the resident composer and music director, and the theatre became well known for a string of highly successful Edwardian musical comedy productions composed mostly by Jones, many with additional songs by Lionel Monckton.\n\nThe shows represented a step forward in the evolution of musical theatre. They had coherent plots and music specifically composed for the plot of each piece. After the first few of these pieces, they became more like what musical comedy was to become at maturity than their Gaiety Theatre siblings, the more revue-like \"Girl\" musicals. The early Daly's Theatre shows, mostly with books by critic-turned-playwright Owen Hall and lyrics by Harry Greenbank and the prolific Adrian Ross, included the breakout hit, \"A Gaiety Girl\" (1894), \"An Artist's Model\" (1895), and the three most successful musical comedies of the era: \"The Geisha\" (1896), \"A Greek Slave\" (1898) and \"San Toy\" (1899). The shows starred actors such as leading lady Marie Tempest, dancer-soubrette Letty Lind, leading men C. Hayden Coffin and Scott Russell, and comics Huntley Wright and Rutland Barrington.\n\nThese were followed by \"A Country Girl\" (1902) and \"The Cingalee\" (1904), with books by James T. Tanner. Edwardes was clever at gauging the changing tastes of his audiences. For a time, he successfully presented English adaptations of continental European operettas, like \"The Little Michus\" (1905), \"The Merveilleuses\" (1906), the highly successful \"The Merry Widow\" (1907), \"The Dollar Princess\" (1909), \"The Count of Luxembourg\" (1911), Gipsy Love (1912) and \"Betty\" (1915). In this series, Percy Greenbank replaced his brother Harry, who had died at the age of 33, songwriter Paul Rubens joined the team, and new actors joined or replaced the older ones, including leading men Bertram Wallis, Courtice Pounds and Robert Evett, and leading ladies Gertie Millar, Lily Elsie, Gabrielle Ray, Isabel Jay, Louie Pounds and Evie Greene.\n\nEdwardes died in 1915, leaving his estate in considerable debt. The theatre continued to be managed by Robert Evett as part of Edwardes's estate. Evett directed and produced \"The Happy Day\" (1916) and the smash hit, \"The Maid of the Mountains\" (1917), both starring José Collins. The show ran for a record-breaking three years and saved the Edwardes estate. This was followed by \"A Southern Maid\" (1917; revived 1920) and \"Our Peg\" (later adapted into \"Our Nell\"). Evett also directed revivals of \"The Dollar Princess\".\n\nLater, other managements took over the theatre. In 1927, Noël Coward's famous flop \"Sirocco\" played at Daly's. After this failure, Daly's returned to musical comedies but found little further success. \"That's a Pretty Thing\" played in 1933, \"Charley's Aunt\" was revived in 1934, and \"Young England\" was transferred there in 1935. The theatre eventually closed in 1937 after the last performance of \"The First Legion\" and was sold to Warner Brothers who demolished the theatre and built a large theatre and cinema called the Warner Theatre designed by Thomas Somerford and E. A. Stone with a marble facade sculpted by Bainbridge Copnall, featuring a large relief panel in two corners depicting the spirits of sight and sound. This building was demolished, but the marble frontage was retained, and the site was redeveloped as the \"Warner Village cinema complex\". It changed hands again, and is now the \"Vue West End\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8145", "title": "December 15", "text": "December 15\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42625080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42625080", "title": "Djerassi Artists Residency", "text": "Djerassi Artists Residency\n\nThe Djerassi Resident Artists Program is an artists and writers residency in Woodside, California. Sitting on a 583-acre ranch with a 12-sided cattle barn converted into artist studios.\n\nIt was co-founded in 1979 by Carl Djerassi, the inventor of the birth control pill, and Diane Middlebrook. The residency is competitive and held at no cost to the artists. The location was a former cattle ranch. Originally a women's residency program, to honor his late daughter Pamela but later expanded to welcome all genders. \n\nThis residency offers a public open house event once a year.\n"}
{"id": "45024106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45024106", "title": "Duke St. Rollins", "text": "Duke St. Rollins\n\nDuke St. Rollins is a U.S-based politically progressive Internet troll on Facebook who received mainstream press notoriety for his socially critical and witty commentary in reply to posts made by major U.S. political and conservative media figures. His outputs have been dubbed by mainstream media journalists as \"extraordinary\" and coming from \"a performance artist.\" Among his favored targets are Governor Jan Brewer of Arizona, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Arizona, and Fox News Channel program host Sean Hannity.\n\nAccording to Stephen Lemons of the \"Phoenix New Times\", the real-life person behind the moniker Duke St. Rollins was an executive in the banking industry, was in his mid-40s, and lived in the Northeastern U.S. while he gained his notoriety as Duke St. Rollins. The person had used several other monikers that incorporated the word \"troll\" (Duke St. Rollins) and administered several other accounts, also noted by the same press accounts, with which he used to troll for political purposes. At first, he began trolling satirically as what he described as \"a hard-right tea-bagger\" but later switched to a more direct approach.\n\nSt. Rollins favored using the word \"cunt\" to describe people with which he disagreed. He described in his indelicate self-authored \"Comedy Manifesto\", which governed his trolling and described his philosophy,\n\nSome people hate the word cunt. I fucking love it. It is not misogynistic, and a lot of women understand this and have no issue with it. It is usually the PC pussy liberals who get on my case about it. I don't care. I won't stop saying it.\n"}
{"id": "11798559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11798559", "title": "Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference", "text": "Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference\n\nThe Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference was held in The Hague from 23 August to 2 November 1949, between representatives of the Netherlands, the Republic of Indonesia and the BFO (Federal Consultative Assembly) representing various states the Dutch had created in the Indonesian archipelago. Prior to this conference, three other high-level meetings between the Netherlands and Indonesia took place; the Linggadjati Agreement (1947), the Renville Agreement (1948), and the Roem-van Roijen Agreement (1949). The conference ended with the Netherlands agreeing to transfer sovereignty to the United States of Indonesia.\n\nOn 17 August 1945, Indonesian nationalist leader Sukarno declared Indonesian independence. The Dutch who had been expelled in 1942 by the invading Japanese, viewed the Indonesian leadership as Japanese collaborators, and wanted to regain control of their colony. The conflict between the Dutch and Indonesian nationalists developed into a full-scale war of independence. By mid-1946, both sides were under international pressure to negotiate. The Dutch favoured a federal Indonesian state, and organised a conference in Malino in July 1946, which led to the establishment of the State of East Indonesia. In November, the Dutch and Indonesian sides reached an agreement at Linggadjati, in which the Netherlands agreed to recognize Republican rule over Java, Sumatra and Madura, and that Republic would become a constituent state of a federal United States of Indonesia. 28 January 1949, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 67 calling for an end to the recent Dutch military offensive against Republican forces in Indonesia and demanding the restoration of the Republican government. It also urged the resumption of negotiations to find a peaceful settlement between the two sides.\n\nFollowing 6 July Roem-van Roijen Agreement, which effectively endorsed the Security Council resolution, Mohammad Roem said that the Republic of Indonesia, whose leaders were still in exile in Bangka, would participate in the Round Table Conference to accelerate the transfer of sovereignty.\n\nThe Indonesian government, in exile for over six months, returned to the temporary capital at Yogyakarta on 6 July 1949. To ensure commonality of negotiating position between the Republic and the federal delegates, in the second half of July 1949 and from 31 July – 2 August, Inter-Indonesian Conferences were in Yogyakarta between all component authorities of the future United States of Indonesia. The delegates agreed on the basic principles and outline for the constitution.\n\nFollowing preliminary discussions sponsored by the UN Commission for Indonesia in Jakarta, it was decided the Round Table Conference would be held in The Hague.\n\nThe negotiations, which took place from 23 August to 2 November 1949, were assisted by the United Nations Commission for Indonesia. The Dutch, Republic of Indonesia and BFO delegations reached agreement resulting in a number of documents, namely a Charter of Transfer of Sovereignty (to come into immediate effect), a Statute of Union, a draft constitution, an economic agreement and agreements on social and military affairs.\n\nThe Dutch-Indonesian Union would not have any powers: it would be a consultative body with a permanent secretariat, a court of arbitration to settle any legal disputes, and a minimum of two ministerial conferences every year. It would be headed by the Dutch Queen in an entirely symbolic role.\n\nThe delegations also reached agreement on the withdrawal of Dutch troops \"within the shortest possible time\", and for the United States of Indonesia to grant most favoured nation status to the Netherlands. In addition, there would be no discrimination against Dutch nationals or companies and the Republic agreed to take over trade agreements negotiated by the Dutch East Indies. However the two major areas of disagreement were over the debts of the Dutch colonial administration and the status of Western New Guinea.\n\nNegotiations over the internal and external debts of the Dutch East Indies colonial administration were protracted, with each side presenting their own calculations and arguing over whether the United States of Indonesia should be responsible for debts incurred by the Dutch after their surrender to the Japanese in 1942. In particular the Indonesian delegations were indignant at having to cover what it saw as the costs of Dutch military action against it. Finally, thanks to the intervention of the US member of the UN Commission on Indonesia, the Indonesian side came to realise that agreeing to pay part of the Dutch debt would be the price they would have to pay for the transfer of sovereignty. On 24 October, the Indonesian delegations agreed that Indonesia would take over approximately 4.3 billion Guilders of Dutch East Indies government debt.\n\nThe issue of the inclusion or not of Western New Guinea almost resulted in the talks becoming deadlocked. The Indonesian delegations took the view that Indonesia should comprise the entire territory of Dutch East Indies. The Dutch refused to compromise, claiming Western New Guinea had no ethnic ties with the rest of the archipelago. Despite Dutch public opinion supporting transfer of Western New Guinea to Indonesia, the Dutch cabinet was worried it would not be able to ratify the Round Table Agreement in parliament if it conceded this point. Finally, in the early hours of 1 November 1949 a compromise was reached: the status of Western New Guinea would be determined through negotiations between the United States of Indonesia and the Netherlands within a year of the transfer of sovereignty. The conference was officially closed in the Dutch parliament building on 2 November 1949.\n\nThe Dutch parliament debated the agreement, and the upper and lower houses ratified it on 21 December by the two-thirds majority needed. Despite criticism in particular of the Indonesian assumption of Dutch government debt and the unresolved status of West Papua, the Indonesian legislature, the Central Indonesian National Committee, ratified the agreement on 14 December 1949. Sovereignty was transferred to the United States of Indonesia on 27 December 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2008534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008534", "title": "Earthcore", "text": "Earthcore\n\nEarthcore is an Australian outdoor dance music festival and electronic music event. The outdoor events were generally held in forest environments around Victoria, Australia, with some events held in Queensland and overseas in New Caledonia. Earthcore has operated since 1992. After the Earthcore Carnival that ran from the 28th to 30 November 2008, Earthcore took a hiatus before returning for their 20-year anniversary celebration in November 2013.\n\nEarthcore returned to its traditional ground roots festival beginning with the 20 year anniversary in 2013 to celebrate the event that introduced Australia to the outdoor electronic dance music festival. With a new home amongst the rolling hills of Pyalong in country Victoria, Earthcore was again held in November 2014 with one of the largest lineups to date including favourites Hallucinogen and Shpongle as headliners. Earthcore continued to operate in Pyalong until 2016 and moved to Elmore Victoria for the 2017 festival.\n\nOver the years, events included large outdoor festivals, one night weekly club events, warehouse parties, one-off large-scale indoor parties, events on boats and a club on a moving train. The peak Earthcore event was the 2000 New Year's Eve party which went for seven days and was attended by up to 15,000 people over the seven days.\n\nIn 2017, Earthcore events in three states were cancelled abruptly. Earthcore blamed the cancellations on what they alleged was a smear campaign by international artist Coming Soon.. However, many of the bands countered that the cancellations were in fact because they hadn't been paid for their performances, and hadn't been given their air tickets, and so wouldn't be attending. The event \"lost up to 32 acts\" the day before the event, with the Herald Sun reporting \"Many artists have posted disgruntled messages on their Facebook pages, many claiming they have not been paid and many saying their flights to Australia had not been booked\". This included a number of the headlining acts, such as Juno Reactor, Animato and Electric Universe. Earthcore then alleged that many artists were paid and kept the fees and did not perform. In all, the Western Australia, New South Wales & Queensland events were cancelled, the Victorian event proceeded with a reduced lineup.\n\nA number of companies relating to the management of Earthcore have suffered from financial problems.\n\nSpiro Boursine, founder and main organiser of Earthcore, died on the 24th of October, 2018, leaving the future of the events unknown, including an upcoming large scale event meant to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the event. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10243", "title": "Exxon Valdez oil spill", "text": "Exxon Valdez oil spill\n\nThe \"Exxon Valdez\" oil spill occurred in Prince William Sound, Alaska, March 24, 1989, when \"Exxon Valdez\", an oil tanker owned by Exxon Shipping Company, bound for Long Beach, California, struck Prince William Sound's Bligh Reef, 1.5 miles west of Tatitlek, Alaska at 12:04 am local time and spilled (or a mass of 35,000 metric tonnes) of crude oil over the next few days. It is considered to be one of the most devastating human-caused environmental disasters. The \"Valdez\" spill is the second largest in US waters, after the 2010 \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill, in terms of volume released. Prince William Sound's remote location, accessible only by helicopter, plane, or boat, made government and industry response efforts difficult and severely taxed existing response plans. The region is a habitat for salmon, sea otters, seals and seabirds. The oil, originally extracted at the Prudhoe Bay oil field, eventually covered of coastline, and of ocean.\n\nAccording to official reports, the ship was carrying 53,094,510 gallons (1,264,155 barrels) of oil, of which about were spilled into the Prince William Sound. An approximate figure of was a commonly accepted estimate of the spill's volume and has been used by the State of Alaska's \"Exxon Valdez\" Oil Spill Trustee Council, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and environmental groups such as Greenpeace and the Sierra Club.\n\nMultiple factors have been identified as contributing to the incident:\n\nCaptain Joseph Hazelwood, who was widely reported to have been drinking heavily that night, was not at the controls when the ship struck the reef. However, as the senior officer, he was in command of the ship even though he was asleep in his bunk. In light of the other findings, investigative reporter Greg Palast stated in 2008, \"Forget the drunken skipper fable. As to Captain Joe Hazelwood, he was below decks, sleeping off his bender. At the helm, the third mate never would have collided with Bligh Reef had he looked at his RAYCAS radar. But the radar was not turned on. In fact, the tanker's radar was left broken and disabled for more than a year before the disaster, and Exxon management knew it. It was just too expensive to fix and operate.\" Exxon blamed Captain Hazelwood for the grounding of the tanker.\n\nOther factors, according to an MIT course entitled \"Software System Safety\" by Professor Nancy G. Leveson, included:\nThis disaster resulted in International Maritime Organization introducing comprehensive marine pollution prevention rules (MARPOL) through various conventions. The rules were ratified by member countries and, under International Ship Management rules, the ships are being operated with a common objective of \"safer ships and cleaner oceans\".\n\nIn 2009, \"Exxon Valdez\" Captain Joseph Hazelwood offered a \"heartfelt apology\" to the people of Alaska, suggesting he had been wrongly blamed for the disaster: \"The true story is out there for anybody who wants to look at the facts, but that's not the sexy story and that's not the easy story,\" he said. Hazelwood said he felt Alaskans always gave him a fair shake.\n\nChemical dispersant, a surfactant and solvent mixture, was applied to the slick by a private company on March 24 with a helicopter. But the helicopter missed the target area. Scientific data on its toxicity were either thin or incomplete. In addition, public acceptance of a new, widespread chemical treatment was lacking. Landowners, fishing groups, and conservation organizations questioned the use of chemicals on hundreds of miles of shoreline when other alternatives may have been available.\"\n\nAccording to a report by David Kirby for TakePart, the main component of the Corexit formulation used during cleanup, 2-butoxyethanol, was identified as \"one of the agents that caused liver, kidney, lung, nervous system, and blood disorders among cleanup crews in Alaska following the 1989 \"Exxon Valdez\" spill.\n\nMechanical cleanup was started shortly afterwards using booms and skimmers, but the skimmers were not readily available during the first 24 hours following the spill, and thick oil and kelp tended to clog the equipment. Despite civilian insistence for a complete clean, only 10% of total oil was actually completely cleaned. Exxon was widely criticized for its slow response to cleaning up the disaster and John Devens, the mayor of Valdez, has said his community felt betrayed by Exxon's inadequate response to the crisis. More than 11,000 Alaska residents, along with some Exxon employees, worked throughout the region to try to restore the environment. \nBecause Prince William Sound contained many rocky coves where the oil collected, the decision was made to displace it with high-pressure hot water. However, this also displaced and destroyed the microbial populations on the shoreline; many of these organisms (e.g. plankton) are the basis of the coastal marine food chain, and others (e.g. certain bacteria and fungi) are capable of facilitating the biodegradation of oil. At the time, both scientific advice and public pressure was to clean everything, but since then, a much greater understanding of natural and facilitated remediation processes has developed, due somewhat in part to the opportunity presented for study by the \"Exxon Valdez\" spill. Despite the extensive cleanup attempts, less than ten percent of the oil was recovered and a study conducted by NOAA determined that as of early 2007 more than of oil remain in the sandy soil of the contaminated shoreline, declining at a rate of less than 4% per year.\nBoth the long-term and short-term effects of the oil spill have been studied. Immediate effects included the deaths of 100,000 to as many as 250,000 seabirds, at least 2,800 sea otters, approximately 12 river otters, 300 harbor seals, 247 bald eagles, and 22 orcas, and an unknown number of salmon and herring.\n\nIn 2003, fourteen years after the spill, a team from the University of North Carolina found that the remaining oil was lasting far longer than anticipated, which in turn had resulted in more long-term loss of many species than had been expected. The researchers found that at only a few parts per billion, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons caused a long-term increase in mortality rates. They reported that \"species as diverse as sea otters, harlequin ducks and killer whales suffered large, long-term losses and that oiled mussel beds and other tidal shoreline habitats will take an estimated 30 years to recover.\"\n\nIn 2006, a study done by the National Marine Fisheries Service in Juneau found that about of shoreline around Prince William Sound was still affected by the spill, with 101.6 tonnes of oil remaining in the area. Exxon Mobil denied any concerns over any remaining oil, stating that they anticipated a remaining fraction that they assert will not cause any long-term ecological impacts, according to the conclusions of the studies they had done: \"We've done 350 peer-reviewed studies of Prince William Sound, and those studies conclude that Prince William Sound has recovered, it's healthy and it's thriving.\" However, in 2007 a NOAA study concluded that this contamination can produce chronic low-level exposure, discourage subsistence where the contamination is heavy, and decrease the \"wilderness character\" of the area.\n\nThe effects of the spill continued to be felt for many years afterwards. As of 2010 there were an estimated of Valdez crude oil still in Alaska's sand and soil, breaking down at a rate estimated at less than 4% per year.\n\nOn March 24, 2014, the twenty-fifth anniversary of the spill, NOAA scientists reported that some species seem to have recovered, with the sea otter the latest creature to return to pre-spill numbers. Scientists who have monitored the spill area for the last 25 years report that concern remains for one of two pods of local orca whales, with fears that one pod may eventually die out. Federal scientists estimate that between 16,000 and 21,000 US gallons (61 to 79 m) of oil remains on beaches in Prince William Sound and up to 450 miles (725 km) away. Some of the oil does not appear to have biodegraded at all. A USGS scientist who analyses the remaining oil along the coastline states that it remains among rocks and between tide marks. \"The oil mixes with seawater and forms an emulsion...Left out, the surface crusts over but the inside still has the consistency of mayonnaise – or mousse.\" Alaska state senator Berta Gardner is urging Alaskan politicians to demand that the US government force ExxonMobil to pay the final $92 million (£57 million) still owed from the court settlement. The major part of the money would be spent to finish cleaning up oiled beaches and attempting to restore the crippled herring population.\n\nIn the case of \"Exxon v. Baker\", an Anchorage jury awarded $287 million for actual damages and $5 billion for punitive damages. To protect itself in case the judgment was affirmed, Exxon obtained a $4.8 billion credit line from J.P. Morgan & Co., who created the first modern credit default swap so that they would not have to hold as much money in reserve against the risk of Exxon's default.\n\nMeanwhile, Exxon appealed the ruling, and the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the trial judge, Russel Holland, to reduce the punitive damages. On December 6, 2002, Holland announced that he had reduced the damages to $4 billion, which he concluded was justified by the facts of the case and was not grossly excessive. Exxon appealed again and the case returned to Holland to be reconsidered in light of a recent Supreme Court ruling in a similar case. Holland increased the punitive damages to $4.5 billion, plus interest.\n\nAfter more appeals, in December 2006 the damages award was cut to $2.5 billion. The court of appeals cited recent Supreme Court rulings relative to limits on punitive damages.\n\nExxon appealed again. On May 23, 2007, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals denied ExxonMobil's request for a third hearing and let stand its ruling that Exxon owed $2.5 billion in punitive damages. Exxon then appealed to the Supreme Court, which agreed to hear the case. On February 27, 2008, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments. Justice Samuel Alito, who at the time, owned between $100,000 and $250,000 in Exxon stock, recused himself from the case. In a decision issued June 25, 2008, written by Justice David Souter, the court vacated the $2.5 billion award and remanded the case back to the lower court, finding that the damages were excessive with respect to maritime common law. Exxon's actions were deemed \"worse than negligent but less than malicious.\" The punitive damages were further reduced to an amount of $507.5 million. The Court's ruling was that maritime punitive damages should not exceed the compensatory damages, supported by a precedent dating from 1818. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick J. Leahy has decried the ruling as \"another in a line of cases where this Supreme Court has misconstrued congressional intent to benefit large corporations.\"\n\nExxon's official position was that punitive damages greater than $25 million were not justified because the spill resulted from an accident, and because Exxon spent an estimated $2 billion cleaning up the spill and a further $1 billion to settle related civil and criminal charges. Attorneys for the plaintiffs contended that Exxon bore responsibility for the accident because the company \"put a drunk in charge of a tanker in Prince William Sound.\"\n\nExxon recovered a significant portion of clean-up and legal expenses through insurance claims associated with the grounding of the \"Exxon Valdez\". Also, in 1991, Exxon made a quiet, separate financial settlement of damages with a group of seafood producers known as the Seattle Seven for the disaster's effect on the Alaskan seafood industry. The agreement granted $63.75 million to the Seattle Seven, but stipulated that the seafood companies would have to repay almost all of any punitive damages awarded in other civil proceedings. The $5 billion in punitive damages was awarded later, and the Seattle Seven's share could have been as high as $750 million if the damages award had held. Other plaintiffs have objected to this secret arrangement, and when it came to light, Judge Holland ruled that Exxon should have told the jury at the start that an agreement had already been made, so the jury would know exactly how much Exxon would have to pay.\n\nAs of December 15, 2009, Exxon had paid the entire $507.5 million in punitive damages, including lawsuit costs, plus interest, which were further distributed to thousands of plaintiffs.\n\nIn October 1989, Exxon filed suit against the State of Alaska, charging that the state had interfered with Exxon's attempts to clean up the spill by refusing to approve the use of dispersant chemicals until the night of the 26th. The state disputed the claim, stating that there was a long-standing agreement to allow the use of dispersants to clean up spills, thus Exxon did not require permission to use them, and that in fact Exxon had not had enough dispersant on hand to effectively handle a spill of the size created by the \"Valdez\". Exxon filed claims in October 1990 against the Coast Guard, asking to be reimbursed for cleanup costs and damages awarded to plaintiffs in any lawsuits filed by the State of Alaska or the federal government against Exxon. The company claimed that the Coast Guard was \"wholly or partially responsible\" for the spill, because they had granted mariners' licenses to the crew of the Valdez, and because they had given the \"Valdez\" permission to leave regular shipping lanes to avoid ice. They also reiterated the claim that the Coast Guard had delayed cleanup by refusing to give permission to immediately use chemical dispersants on the spill.\n\nThe Oil Spill Recovery Institute was formed after United States Congress approved it to seek a solution. Collaborating with InnoCentive they found a partial solution for the flow of oil.\n\nA report by the US National Response Team summarized the event and made a number of recommendations, such as changes to the work patterns of Exxon crew in order to address the causes of the accident.\n\nIn response to the spill, the United States Congress passed the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA). The legislation included a clause that prohibits any vessel that, after March 22, 1989, has caused an oil spill of more than in any marine area, from operating in Prince William Sound.\n\nIn April 1998, the company argued in a legal action against the Federal government that the ship should be allowed back into Alaskan waters. Exxon claimed OPA was effectively a bill of attainder, a regulation that was unfairly directed at Exxon alone. In 2002, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against Exxon. As of 2002, OPA had prevented 18 ships from entering Prince William Sound.\n\nOPA also set a schedule for the gradual phase in of a double hull design, providing an additional layer between the oil tanks and the ocean. While a double hull would likely not have prevented the \"Valdez\" disaster, a Coast Guard study estimated that it would have cut the amount of oil spilled by 60 percent.\n\nThe \"Exxon Valdez\" supertanker was towed to San Diego, arriving on July 10. Repairs began on July 30. Approximately of steel were removed and replaced. In June 1990 the tanker, renamed \"S/R Mediterranean\", left harbor after $30 million of repairs. It was still sailing as of January 2010, registered in Panama. The vessel was then owned by a Hong Kong company, who operated it under the name \"Oriental Nicety\". In August 2012, it was beached at Alang, India and dismantled.\n\nIn the aftermath of the spill, Alaska governor Steve Cowper issued an executive order requiring two tugboats to escort every loaded tanker from Valdez out through Prince William Sound to Hinchinbrook Entrance. As the plan evolved in the 1990s, one of the two routine tugboats was replaced with a Escort Response Vehicle (ERV). Tankers at Valdez are no longer single-hulled. Congress enacted legislation requiring all tankers to be double-hulled as of 2015.\n\nIn 1991, following the collapse of the local marine population (particularly clams, herring and seals) the Chugach Alaska Corporation, an Alaska Native Corporation, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. It has since recovered.\n\nAccording to several studies funded by the state of Alaska, the spill had both short-term and long-term economic effects. These included the loss of recreational sports, fisheries, reduced tourism, and an estimate of what economists call \"existence value\", which is the value to the public of a pristine Prince William Sound.\n\nThe economy of the city of Cordova, Alaska was adversely affected after the spill damaged stocks of salmon and herring in the area. The village of Chenega was transformed into an emergency base and media outlet.The local villagers had to cope with a tripling of their population from 80 to 250. When asked how they felt about the situation, a village councillor noted that they were too shocked and busy to be depressed; others emphasized the human costs of leaving children unattended while their parents worked to clean up. Many Native Americans were worried that too much time was spent on the fishery and not enough on the land that supports subsidence hunting.\n\nIn 2010, a CNN report alleged that many oil spill cleanup workers involved in the \"Exxon Valdez\" response had subsequently become sick. Anchorage lawyer Dennis Mestas found that this was true of 6,722 of 11,000 worker files he was able to inspect. Access to the records was controlled by Exxon. Exxon responded in a statement to CNN: \n\nAfter 20 years, there is no evidence suggesting that either cleanup workers or the residents of the communities affected by the Valdez spill have had any adverse health effects as a result of the spill or its cleanup.\n\nIn 1992, Exxon released a video titled \"Scientists and the Alaska Oil Spill\", to be distributed to schools. Dr. Michael Fry called it a piece of \"corporate propaganda\".\n\nIn December 1994, the Unabomber assassinated Burson-Marsteller executive Thomas Mosser, accusing him of having \"helped Exxon clean up its public image after the \"Exxon Valdez\" incident\". The PR company claimed not to have been contracted during the actual crisis.\n\nSeveral weeks after the spill, \"Saturday Night Live\" aired a pointed sketch featuring Kevin Nealon, Phil Hartman, and Victoria Jackson as cleanup workers struggling to scrub the oil off of animals and rocks on a beach in Prince William Sound.\n\nIn the 1995 film \"Waterworld\", the \"Exxon Valdez\" is the flagship of the movie's villain, \"The Deacon,\" the leader of a band of scavenging raiders. In the ship is a portrait of their patron saint, Joseph Hazelwood.\n\nIn the second Forrest Gump novel, \"Gump and Co.\" by Winston Groom, Gump commandeers the \"Exxon Valdez\" and accidentally crashes it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41546649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41546649", "title": "Falperra International Hill Climb", "text": "Falperra International Hill Climb\n\nThe Falperra International Hill Climb, is an annual automobile hillclimb to the summit of Falperra in Braga, Portugal. The track measures , climbing from the start at km 39 on EN 309 Highway, to the finish at km 44,20, on grades averaging 5%.\n\nThe race is on the FIA European Hill Climb Championship Events Calendar and features on both Portugal and Spain National Hill Climb Championships. It has taken place since 1927, being the most popular Hill Climb race in Portugal, with 200.000 spectators per edition. It is currently contested by a variety of classes of cars, (touring cars, sportscars, single-seater) and has on average 250 competitors.\n\nThe first running of the Falperra Hill Climb was promoted by a local commission from Braga in 1927. The second edition has held in 1930 by the Automóvel Clube de Portugal, ACP (Portugal Automobile Association).\n\nThe competition was resumed in 1950 by the ACP, who named the 1950 edition as Falperra First Hill Climb, and all editions are accounted from 1950 edition.\n\nIn 1976, the Automóvel Clube do Minho (Minho Automobile Association) assumed the organization of the race and applied for an international competition. FIA integrated the race in their European Championship in 1978. Since that year, all the Falperra Hill Climbs where part of a FIA international calendar with the exception of the first race of 1984 (in this year there were two races: one in May for the national championship, and another in September for the European Championship).\n\nIn 2002, due to lack of understanding between local authorities to make security improvements at the track, the race was not realized until 2010, when that improvements were made.\n\nIn 2013 the race was in risk of not being held, but due to the pressure made by the Falperra HC supporters in social networks, the Braga city hall made the new pack of safety improvements requested by FIA in the same year.\n\nThe current record was set in 2017 by the Italian driver Simone Faggioli, on the wheel of a Norma M20 FC, with the time of 1:48.686, beating the record since 2015, scored by himself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3695117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3695117", "title": "Famine Early Warning Systems Network", "text": "Famine Early Warning Systems Network\n\nFEWS NET, the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, is a leading provider of information and analysis on food insecurity. Created in 1985 by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), and the US Department of State, after devastating famines in East and West Africa, FEWS NET today is a valuable resource to a vast community of governments, international relief agencies, NGOs, journalists, and researchers planning for, responding to, and reporting on humanitarian crises. With support from a technical team in Washington, D.C., FEWS NET staff based in more than 20 country offices collaborate with US government agencies, national government ministries and international partners to collect data and produce objective, forward-looking analysis on the world’s most food-insecure countries. Using an integrated approach that considers climate, agriculture production, prices, trade, nutrition, and other factors, together with an understanding of local livelihoods, FEWS NET forecasts most likely outcomes and anticipates change six to twelve months in advance. To help decision-makers and relief agencies plan for food emergencies, FEWS NET publishes monthly reports (available on its web site) on current and projected food insecurity, up-to-the-minute alerts on emerging or likely crises, and specialized reports on weather hazards, crops, market prices, and food assistance.\n\nIn 2010, to mark its 25th anniversary, produced a video to document its work.\n\nFEWS NET reporting focuses on acute food insecurity—sudden and/or short-term household food deficits caused by shocks—rather than chronic food insecurity, ongoing or cyclical food deficits related to persistent poverty and a lack of assets. \nIn general, food insecurity is rarely the result of one causal factor. The strength and reliability of FEWS NET forecasting lies in its integrated consideration of the diversity of factors that lead to risk. Along with agricultural production, climate and weather, FEWS NET places analytical importance on markets and trade, livelihoods and sociopolitical issues such as conflict and humanitarian response. Key elements of FEWS NET's methodology include: \n\nAlong with USAID, other US agencies make integral analytical contributions to FEWS NET reports. They include:\n\nChemonics, an international development company, supports FEWS NET's home office in Washington DC, as well as some 80 field-based staff, most of whom are nationals of the countries in which they work.\n\nFEWS NET works closely with partners in the food security community, including international organizations such as the World Food Program and Food and Agriculture Organization and national ministries of agriculture and trade and national weather services. In certain countries, partnerships may involve joint reporting, joint field assessments and/or collaborative analysis. Examples of these partners include Comité permanent Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la Sécheresse dans le Sahel in West Africa and the Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit in Somalia.\n\nFEWS NET was created in response to the 1984 - 1985 famines in Sudan and Ethiopia, which resulted in the deaths of as many as 1 million people. From the beginning, the aim of the early warning system, then called \"FEWS\", was to anticipate impending famines and advise policy makers on how to prevent or mitigate such famines. In July 2000, the initiative's name was changed to the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, or FEWS NET, to signal the importance of collaborating with and strengthening national local food security information systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "11164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164", "title": "February 17", "text": "February 17\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6543236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6543236", "title": "Federated Logic Conference", "text": "Federated Logic Conference\n\nThe Federated Logic Conference (FLoC) is an international conglomeration of several mathematical logic and computer science related academic conferences that deal with the intersection of the two fields. FLoC traditionally includes:\n\n\nThe first FLoC was held in 1996 at DIMACS; subsequently they have been held roughly every four years. FLoC 2018 was held in Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "776773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=776773", "title": "Free Comic Book Day", "text": "Free Comic Book Day\n\nFree Comic Book Day, taking place on the first Saturday of May, is an annual promotional effort by the North American comic book industry to help bring new readers into independent comic book stores. Retailer Joe Field of Flying Colors Comics in Concord, California brainstormed the event in his \"Big Picture\" column in the August 2001 issue of \"Comics & Games Retailer\" magazine. Free Comic Book Day started in 2002 and is coordinated by the industry's single large distributor, Diamond Comic Distributors. This is another event like the Comic Book Day which started in USA and is now celebrated across counries in Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nIn 2001, retailer Joe Field was writing columns for an industry magazine, and saw how successful feature films based on comic book franchises were providing the comic book industry with a positive cultural and financial turnaround from the speculator bust of the late 1990s, Field proposed Free Comic Book Day in one of his columns, and received positive reaction to it. Then-Image Comics publisher Jim Valentino suggested having the first Free Comic Book Day on the same weekend as the opening of the 2002 \"Spider-Man\" feature film, in order to take advantage of the film's heavy promotion and related press about the comic book medium, and thus the first event was held May 4, 2002, one day after the film's opening. However, not all events have corresponded with the release of a film based on a comic book. In 2004 it was held in July, but it was moved back to the first Saturday in May the following year and has been held on that day ever since. On Free Comic Book Day, participating comic book store retailers give away specially printed copies of free comic books, and some offer special deals and creator signings to those visiting their establishments. However, retailers do not receive the issues for free; they pay 12–50 cents per copy for the comics they give away during the event. In addition to comic books, some stores also give away other merchandise, such as mini posters and other movie tie-in memorabilia.\n\nIn its first six years, more than 2000 retailers in more than 30 countries gave away more than 12 million Free Comic Book Day special edition comic books. The success of the promotion rests with each participating retailer. Most participants agree that Free Comic Book Day has been part of a healthier comics market and growing comic book sales over the last several years. Free Comic Book Day has also garnered press coverage in the news media. In 2014 the free publicity for the Free Comic Book Day event, and the comic book industry, from Facebook, Twitter, over 1000 television news stations, and over 4000 online news outlets was estimated at $3.4 million. In 2015 the number of shops participating in Free Comic Book Day increased 8% over how many participated in 2014 and the number of comic books ordered increased by 21%.\n\nIn some communities, the day is more grandly organized such as in London, Ontario, Canada where most of its major comic book retailers, such as Heroes Comics, as well as the London Public Library's Central branch participate. On that day, these establishments cooperate in a major cross-promotion in which visitors are invited to collect stamps of each participating establishment for entry in a prize draw upon completion as well as various other activities which has evolved into a street festival in the city's downtown core. The 2013 event collected over 2000 such completed ballots, which does not account for more casual visitors.\n\nSome stores have treated FCBD as mini-conventions complete with artist alleys, contests and cosplaying fans. FCBD also has a positive impact for independent artists as it became an opportunity in marketing their works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4167189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4167189", "title": "Game (dog)", "text": "Game (dog)\n\nGame or gameness is a quality of fighting dogs and working terriers that are selectively bred and conditioned from a very early age to develop traits of eagerness despite the threat of substantive injury. Dogs displaying this trait can also be described as persevering, ready and willing, full of fight, spirited, or plucky.\n\nIn dog fighting breeds gameness is valued as it gives the dog the ability to maintain the attack in baiting, despite ripped flesh, dehydration, exhaustion or broken bones. As one writer describes it, \"Game is the dog that won't quit fighting, the dog that'll die in the ring, the dog that'll fight with two broken legs.\" The scope and method of training to develop a game dog varies dramatically depending on the level and experience of the dog-fighter. Some famous \"gamebred\" dogs are the American Pit Bull Terrier, Bully Kutta, Gull Terr, the Irish Kerry Blue Terrier, the English Pitbull,Pitbull Amstaff the Japanese Tosa Inu and the Argentinean Dogo Argentino.\n\nPertaining to working terriers and other small hunting dogs, earthdog trials are used to determine the dog's gameness in hunting dangerous pest species underground. The American Working Terrier Association currently offers a Certificate of Gameness (CG) title as a basic instinct test (meaning that it is done without conditioning/training the dog, to see if the dog naturally exhibits gameness) for working terriers and dachshunds. In the past, the Irish Kennel Club required the now-discarded Teastas Mor certification for champion animals (intended for breeding) which involved \"showing gameness in attacking badgers. Five minutes is the minimum period a terrier shall be in contact with the badger, except when the terrier draws the badger in less time.\" \"Drawing\" meant pulling the badger out of the hole. The purpose of the Teastas Mor was to determine the dog's capabilities for work and fitness for breeding, not primarily for entertainment as in the blood-sports of baiting.\n\n"}
{"id": "357285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357285", "title": "George Papandreou", "text": "George Papandreou\n\nGeorge Andreas Papandreou (, , shortened to \"Giorgos\" () ; born 16 June 1952) is a Greek American politician who served as Prime Minister of Greece from 2009 to 2011.\n\nBelonging to a political dynasty of long standing, he served under his father, then-prime minister Andreas Papandreou as Minister for National Education and Religious Affairs (1988–1989 and 1994–1996) and Minister for Foreign Affairs from 1999 to 2004. Papandreou was leader of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) party from February 2004 until March 2012, and President of the Socialist International since January 2006.\n\nOn 6 October 2009, George Papandreou became the 182nd Prime Minister of Greece. He was the third member of the Papandreou family to serve as the country's prime minister, following his father Andreas and his grandfather Georgios Papandreou. He resigned on 11 November 2011 during the Greek government debt crisis to make way for a national unity government.\n\nPapandreou was born 16 June 1952 in Saint Paul, Minnesota, United States, where his father, Andreas Papandreou, at that time held a professorship at the University of Minnesota. His mother is American-born Margaret, \"née\" Chant.\n\nHe received his secondary education at schools in Illinois in the United States, in Sweden, and graduated from King City Secondary School (near Toronto) in Canada in 1970. He attended Amherst College in Massachusetts (where he was a friend and dormitory roommate of future political rival and prime minister of Greece himself, Antonis Samaras), Stockholm University, the London School of Economics and Harvard University. He has a bachelor of arts degree in sociology from Amherst (1975) and a master's degree in sociology from the LSE (1977). He was a researcher on immigration issues at Stockholm University in 1972–73. He was also a fellow of the Foreign Relations Center of Harvard University in 1992–93.\nIn 2002 he was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws by Amherst College and in 2006 he was named distinguished professor in the Center for Hellenic Studies by Georgia State College of Arts and Science.\nPapandreou's father studied and worked as professor of economics from 1939 to 1959. His paternal grandfather, Georgios Papandreou, was a three-time prime minister of Greece.\n\nThe younger George Papandreou came to Greece after the restoration of Greek democracy in 1974. He then became active in the political party his father had founded, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK). He joined the Central Committee of PASOK in 1984.\n\nPapandreou was elected to the Greek Parliament in 1981, the year his father became Prime Minister, as MP for the constituency of Achaea. He became Under Secretary for Cultural Affairs in 1985, Minister of Education and Religious Affairs in 1988, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1993, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs again in 1994, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs again in 1996 and Minister of Foreign Affairs in February 1999. He was also Minister Responsible for Government Coordination for the Bid for 2004 Olympic Games in 1997.\nIn his second term as Minister of Education, Papandreou was the first politician in Greece to introduce affirmative action, allocating 5% of university posts for the Muslim minority in Thrace. He was also instrumental in initiating the Open University in Greece.\n\nPapandreou received numerous awards and honorary degrees in recognition of his work for human rights. As Foreign Minister he fostered closer relations with Turkey and Albania. He worked to solve the dispute over Cyprus. Papandreou also worked to resolve tensions regarding the Macedonia naming dispute. Papandreou stated in 1999 that he supported Turkey's application to join the European Union.\n\nIn December 2003 European Voice shortlisted him for nomination of the Europeans of the Year award as \"Diplomat of the Year\", naming him as \"The Bridge-Builder\" and quoting \"Le Monde\" that dubbed him the \"architect of Greek-Turkish rapprochement\". He is a founding member of the Helsinki Citizens Assembly.\n\nIn anticipation of the 2004 national elections in Greece, polls indicated that PASOK was very likely to lose as the conservative New Democracy party was heading towards a landslide. In January 2004, the incumbent PM Costas Simitis announced his resignation as leader of PASOK, and passed the leadership to Papandreou by recommending him as the new leader. On 8 February 2004 PASOK introduced for the first time the procedure of open primaries for the election of party leadership. Even if Papandreou had no opponent, this was a move designed to solidify the open primaries, democratize the party, and make a clean break with the tradition of \"dynastic politics.\"\n\nIn May 2005, Papandreou was elected Vice President of the Socialist International following a proposal by the former President, António Guterres. In January 2006, Papandreou was unanimously elected President of the Socialist International.\n\nIn the 2007 general election, PASOK again lost to the incumbent New Democracy party of Kostas Karamanlis and Papandreou’s leadership was challenged by Evangelos Venizelos and Kostas Skandalidis. Papandreou, however, retained his party's leadership at a leadership election in November.\n\nIn June 2009 and under his leadership, his party won the 2009 European Parliament election in Greece. Four months later, PASOK won the October 2009 general elections with 43.92% of the popular vote to ND's 33.48%, and 160 parliament seats to 91.\n\nThe inauguration of George Papandreou as the 182nd Prime Minister of Greece took place on 6 October 2009.\n\nUpon inauguration, Papandreou's government revealed that its finances were far worse than previous announcements, with a year deficit of 12.7% of GDP, four times more than the Eurozone's limit, and a public debt of $410 billion. This announcement served only to worsen the severe crisis the Greek economy was undergoing, with an unemployment rate of 10% and the country's debt rating being lowered to BBB+, the lowest in the Eurozone. Papandreou responded by promoting austerity measures, reducing spending, increasing taxes, freezing additional taxes and hiring and introducing measures aimed at combatting rampant tax evasion and reducing the country's public sector. The announced austerity program caused a wave of nationwide strikes and has been criticised by both the EU and the eurozone nations' finance ministers as falling short of its goals.\n\nOn 23 April 2010 during a visit at the island of Kastelorizo, Papandreou issued a statement to the press that he instructed Finance Minister Papakonstantinou to officially ask the EU partners to activate the support mechanism, 'an unprecedented mechanism in the history and practice of the European Union'. The support mechanism, which was put in place by the European heads of state and government and further elaborated by Euro Group ministers, is a European mechanism to which the IMF is associated with financing and it involves a comprehensive three-year economic program and financing conditions.\nOn 23 April 2010, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) announced that Greece made a request for a Stand-By Arrangement. Papandreou and his Finance Minister Giorgos Papakonstantinou managed to convince the IMF and EU to participate in a €110bn bailout package on 9 May 2010. Greece's sovereign debt crisis, which is considered part of the European sovereign debt crisis, is marked by massive strikes and demonstrations.\n\nIn an opinion poll published on 18 May 2011, 77% of the people asked said they had no faith in Papandreou as Prime Minister in handling the Greek economic crisis.\n\nOn 25 May 2011 the Real Democracy Now! movement started protesting in Athens and other major Greek cities. At the time, the peaceful protests were considered to be a sign of popular rejection of Mr. Papandreou and his government's economic policies, with as much as three quarters of the Greek population being against the policies of the Papandreou government. Among the demands of the demonstrations at Athens's central square, who claim to have been over 500,000 at one point, was the resignation of Papandreou and his government.\n\nIn the early hours of 22 June, George Papandreou and his government narrowly survived a vote of confidence in the Greek parliament, with 155 of the 300 seats in parliament. His government held 152 seats.\n\nOn 17 September, he cancelled a visit to the IMF building in Washington D.C and the UN Headquarters in New York City amid mounting concern over the country's debt crisis.\n\nAn opinion poll by Public Issue on behalf of Skai TV and Kathimerini in October 2011 showed that Papandreou's popularity had dropped considerably. Of the people asked, only 23% had a positive view of George Papandreou, while 73% had a negative opinion; ranking him lower than any other leader of a party in the Hellenic Parliament. Papandreou also ranked low on the question of who is more suitable for Prime Minister, with just 22%, as both Antonis Samaras (28%) and \"neither\" (47%) ranked higher than him.\n\nOn 26 October 2011, the European Summit agreed to hand to the Greek government the Sixth Tranche of €8 billion bailout early in the 2012, while the private-sector banks, the holders of Greek debt, have agreed to a 50% haircut on their outstanding Greek government bonds.\n\nOn 28 October 2011, during the national day parade, protesters blocked the parades, forcing the President of Greece and other officials to leave.\n\nOn 31 October, Papandreou announced his government's plans to hold a referendum on the acceptance of the terms of a eurozone bailout deal. The referendum was to be held in December 2011 or January 2012. However, following the insistence of EU leaders at the G20 summit in Cannes that the referendum should be on Greece's continued membership of the eurozone, and severe criticism of such a referendum by Greek Finance Minister Venizelos and within parliament, Papandreou scrapped the plan on 3 November.\n\nOn 5 November, his government only narrowly won a confidence vote in parliament and opposition leader Antonis Samaras called for immediate elections. The next day Papandreou met with opposition leaders trying to reach an agreement on the formation of an interim national unity government. However, Samaras gave in only after Papandreou agreed to step aside, allowing the EU bailout to proceed and paving the way for elections on 19 February 2012. Both the Communist Party (KKE) and the leftist SYRIZA coalition had refused Papandreou's invitation to join talks on a new unity government.\n\nAfter several days of intense negotiations, the two major parties along with the Popular Orthodox Rally agreed to form a grand coalition headed by former Vice President of the European Central Bank Lucas Papademos. On 10 November, George Papandreou formally resigned as Prime Minister of Greece. The new coalition cabinet and Prime Minister Lucas Papademos were formally sworn in on 11 November 2011.\n\nIn August 2012, Papandreou was re-elected President of the Socialist International at its congress in Cape Town. Within domestic politics, he however remained largely sidelined within PASOK, while still an ordinary Member of the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nOn 2 January 2015, Papandreou announced his aspirations to return to high-profile domestic politics. Launching his new party Movement of Democratic Socialists to contest the 25 January 2015 parliamentary elections, he confirmed the long-expected breakup with PASOK.\n\nWhile his decision was fiercely criticized by PASOK officials, Papandreou referred to the extraordinary situation with the country facing important challenges amidst a highly polarized political situation. He said that under these circumstances he \"needed to make a bold political choice. PASOK, the party I belonged to since my youth, and led for many years, had become assimilated into conservative practices and policies.\"\n\nReceiving only 2.46% of the electoral vote, Papandreou's new party however fell short of the 3% electoral threshold. His failure to be reelected marks the first time since 1923 where a representative of the Papandreou political dynasty is not present in the Hellenic Parliament. Following the election he said in a BBC Newsnight interview that his conscience was clear: \"I was able to save Greece from default.\"\n\nIn March 2017, at the Congress of the Socialist International that took place in Cartagena, Colombia, Papandreou was unanimously re-elected President of the organization.\n\nHe is also co-chair of the Democratic Alignment, a coalition of the center left parties in Greece, composed by the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), the Democratic Left (DIMAR) and the Movement of Democratic Socialists.\n\nIn May 2017, Papandreou delivered the keynote speech to the European Association of Political Consultants (EAPC) in Brussels.\n\nGeorge Papandreou is married to Ada Papapanou and they have a daughter, Margarita-Elena (born 1990). He also has a son, Andreas (born 1982), from a previous civil wedding to Evanthia Zissimides (1976–1987), from Cyprus.\nHe has two younger brothers, Nikos Papandreou and Andreas Papandreou, and two younger sisters, Sophia Papandreou and Emilia Nyblom.\nApart from Greek and English, he is also fluent in Swedish. One of his paternal great-grandfathers was of Polish descent.\n\nIn 2016, Papandreou co-signed a letter to Ban Ki-Moon calling for a more humane drug policy, along with people like Glenn Greenwald, Olusegun Obasanjo and Anthony Romero.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3523878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523878", "title": "Georgian Business Week", "text": "Georgian Business Week\n\nGeorgian Business Week (GBW) is one of the English language newspapers in Georgia, Tbilisi-based weekly founded by ltd Bziph and currently published by Georgian Business Week Ltd.\nSince 2006, Georgian Business Week has been a member of Georgian Business Consulting Media Holding (GBC), business-focused media holding, owned by the Georgian Industrial Group .\n\nGBW runs profiles of local businesses, stock market information, expert opinion, budget and legislative commentary, financial analysis and other related topics. The newspaper’s readers include diplomats, leading political and economic figures, top business executives. GBW has an approximate circulation of 5,000.\nIn 2008 and 2007, Georgian Business Week has been an official media partner of the annual Economic Forum in Crynica, Poland. GBW has also been a media partner of a number of local and foreign business forums including in Tel Aviv, Israel in 2007.\n\nThe GBW articles have received awards from outstanding local and international organizations, including the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and Tbilisi-based Addiction Research Center Alternative Georgia.\n\nIn May 2008, along with GBC Media Holding, Georgian Business Week joined ICC-Georgia, which is the Georgian national committee of the International Chamber of Commerce, a global business organization which unites member companies from over 130 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "23490422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23490422", "title": "Glasgow Empire Theatre", "text": "Glasgow Empire Theatre\n\nGlasgow Empire Theatre, known as the Glasgow Palace Empire until the early 1900s, was a major theatre in Glasgow, Scotland, which opened in 1897 on the site of the Gaiety Theatre at 31-35 Sauchiehall Street.\nIt was one of the leading theatres in the UK chain of theatres owned and developed by Moss Empires under the chairmanship of Sir Edward Moss, who served his apprenticeship in Greenock \nand elsewhere.\n\nThe Empire Theatre was designed by the renowned theatre architect Frank Matcham for the Moss Empires theatre chain. Vesta Tilley topped the opening bill. Its predecessor the Gaiety Theatre had opened in 1874 under Charles Bernard, staging pantomime, opera, musicals and plays but changed to variety, which Moss Empires developed further.\n\nExpanding westwards towards Renfield Street and after a major Art Deco redesign by Sunderland-based architects W & TR Milburn the Empire re-opened in 1931 with a seating capacity of 2,100. The main attraction on the re-opening was Jack Payne and the BBC Dance Band.\n\nThe Empire presented variety, revues, musicals and dance, including Pavlova, winter circus, pantomimes and ice spectaculars especially those produced by Tom Arnold.\nOver the years many stars appeared including Lilly Langtry, Laurel and Hardy, Sir Harry Lauder, G. H. Elliott, Tommy Lorne, Evelyn Laye, Will Fyffe, Harry Gordon, Robert Wilson, the Logan family and Andy Stewart. Dance bands included Jack Hylton and Joe Loss.\nTop quality American artistes were greatly welcomed, including the Andrews Sisters and Billy Eckstine. Fats Waller made his European debut in the Empire in 1938. Tony Bennett, Johnnie Ray, Frankie Laine, Connie Francis, Eartha Kitt, Howard Keel, Guy Mitchell, Mel Tormé and Liberace were joined by Frank Sinatra, Dorothy Lamour, Bob Hope, Judy Garland, Jack Benny and a great favourite Danny Kaye.\nOther performers from Britain who became regulars included Nat Gonella, Jimmy Young, Harry Secombe, Max Bygraves, Ken Dodd (who brought the house down), Eddie Cochran, Adam Faith, Cliff Richard, the Springfields and Frankie Vaughan before he headlined at the Alhambra Theatre.\nWelsh singer Dame Shirley Bassey made her debut at the theatre in 1959 and was initially given a hard time before asking the audience to give her a chance, whereupon the singer finished her set and was warmly applauded.\n\nThe Empire was notorious within showbiz circles as \"The English comic's grave\", if their act was slow or thin. Among those judged this way were Bob Monkhouse, Tommy Cooper, Bernie Winters and Morecambe and Wise. Des O'Connor pretended to faint when the Glasgow audience started jeering his act and was duly dragged off stage. Roy Castle survived because of his versatility.\n\nComedian Ken Dodd famously disparaged attempts to psychoanalyse humour with the rebuttal, \"The trouble with Sigmund Freud is that he never played second house at the Glasgow Empire after both halves of the Old Firm had just lost!\"\n\nThe record for the longest running shows is held by The Andy Stewart Show, twice-nightly with a change of programme each six weeks, for 26 weeks in 1961 and again in 1962, with 400,000 tickets sold each year.\n\nThe final curtain came down on the theatre on 31 March 1963 with a cast that included the Red Army Choir, Duncan Macrae, Robert Wilson, Iain Cuthbertson, Albert Finney, Rikki Fulton and Andy Stewart. The site is now occupied by Empire House, an office and retail development, at the corner of West Nile Street and 31-35 Sauchiehall Street.\n"}
{"id": "31810363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31810363", "title": "Halakhak Komiks", "text": "Halakhak Komiks\n\nHalakhak Komiks (literally, \"Guffaw Comics\" or \"Laughter Comics\") is the first regularly published comics magazine in the Philippines. Its first publication was on November 15, 1946. It was founded by Filipino illustrator Isaac Tolentino and Filipino lawyer Jaime Lucas.\n\nHalakhak Komiks was a regular weekly \"funnies\" or \"funny pages\" comic book that was established after the Second World War through the suggestion of Isaac Tolentino to Jaime Lucas, the owner of a newly established bookstore known as Universal Bookstore located at Azcarraga Avenue (now known as Claro M. Recto Avenue) in the Philippines. At the time, Tolentino (a former cartoonist for \"T-V-T\" before World War II) was looking for a job. Lucas, an admirer of Tolentino’s talent, agreed and accepted Tolentino’s idea because publishing a regularly issued comics-magazine had never been done before in the Philippines. Lucas funded the initial publication of the comics by utilizing his own money and bank loans. Tolentino summoned his pre-war cartooning colleagues.\n\nThe printing of the initial issue (\"Halakhak Komiks #1\") was commissioned to the Carmelo and Bauermann, Inc. The office of Halakhak Komiks was located at #665 Evangelista, Quiapo, Manila. Among the Filipino cartoonists who contributed to Halakhak Komiks were Tony Velasquez, Damy Velasquez (brother of Tony Velasquez), J.M. Perez, Elmer Abustan, Gene Cabrera, Francisco V. Coching, Liborio Gatbonton, Fred Carillo, Francisco Reyes, Jose Zabala Santos, Hugo Yonzon, Larry Alcala, Pedro Coniconde, and Lib Abrena.\n\nInitially priced at 25 centavos (Philippine céntimo) per copy, Halakhak was published with 42 pages that were half the size of a regular bond paper due to shortage of paper after World War II. Later on, it was published as a regular-sized comic book at 40 centavos per copy. Halakhak Komiks was published in ten issues before the company closed due to the naiveté of the managers in the comic book business, financial difficulties, ineffective distribution and advertising strategies, and non-paying comic book agents and distributors.\n\nHalakhak Komiks #1 featured comic strips such as Isaac Tolentino’s \"Mga Hindi Sukat Akalain\" (\"Unexpected Things\") and \"Geslani\", Gene Cabrera’s \"Eto na si Tibo\" (\"Here Comes Tibo\"), Jose Zabala Santos’ \"Si Pino\" (\"Pino\"), Francisco Reyes’ \"Talahib\" (\"Cogon Grass\"), Liborio Gatbonton’s \"Doon daw sa Langit\" (\"It is said that in Heaven...\"), Francisco V. Coching’s \"Bulalakaw\" (\"Comet\"), Damy Velasquez's and Jesse Santos' \"Kidlat\" (\"Lightning\"), A. Roullo’s \"Kasikoy\", Noly Panaligan’s \"Binong\", Cris CaGuintuan’s \"Eniong Bohemio\", Hugo Yonzon’s \"Teryong Alat\" (\"Teryo the Salty\"), and Maning de Leon’s \"Indo\".\n\nAmong the regular serials that were featured in the pages of Halakhak Komiks included Dumlao’s \"Bernardo Carpio\" (1947), Francisco V. Coching’s \"Bulalakaw\" (from 1946 to 1947), Cris CaGuintuan’s \"Eniong Bohemio\" (from 1946 to 1947), Isaac Tolentino’s \"Mga Hindi Sukat Akalain\" and \"Geslani\" (both from 1946 to 1947), Jose Zabala Santos’ \"Kani-Kaniya nga Naman\" (\"It Is Really To Each His Own\") (from 1946 to 1947), Damy Velasquez’s and Jesse F. Santos’ \"Kidlat\" (from 1946 to 1947), Larry Alacala’s \"Siopawman\" (1947), and Francisco Reyes’ \"Talahib\" (from 1946 to 1947).\n\n"}
{"id": "8026722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8026722", "title": "Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims", "text": "Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims\n\nHiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims is one of the National Memorial Halls in Hiroshima, Japan.\n\nThe Hall was founded by the Japanese national government to mourn the atomic bomb victims in 2002. It was designed by Kenzo Tange. There is another National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims in Nagasaki built for the same purpose.\n\nThe Hall is in Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park near Hiroshima Peace Memorial across the \"Motoyasu River\" by \"Motoyasu Bridge\". The Hall curators are collecting atomic bomb memories and stories from the survivors to mourn the victims, as the survivors are aging. They are also collecting names and photographs of atomic bomb victims for the same purpose and for the same reason. From the collection, they are developing a project to \"read the stories of the atomic bombing\".\n\nAdmission is free of charge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8497165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8497165", "title": "Kent and Dollar Farm massacres", "text": "Kent and Dollar Farm massacres\n\nThe Kent and Dollar Farm massacres was one of the earliest massacres of Sinhalese civilians carried out by the LTTE during the Sri Lankan Civil War. The massacres took place on 30 November 1984, in two tiny farming villages in the district of Mullaitivu in north-eastern Sri Lanka.The Dollar and Kent Farm killings were the first attack by the Tigers on civilians.\n\nThe Kent and Dollar farms were located near Manal Aru a divisional Secretariat in the Tamil district of Mullaitivu. Manal Aru was of immense importance since it was situated on the border of three districts Mullaitivu, Trincomalee and Anuradhapura and more importantly was the sole gateway between the North and the Eastern parts of the island where the Tamil community was the majority.\n\nRealizing its strategic importance and in a bid to quell the rising threat of Tamil Nationalism, Manal Aru was renamed as Weli Oya (Sinhalese translation of the Tamil name) and an attempt was sought to colonise the area.\n\nA total of 13,288 Tamil families living in 42 villages for generations including Kokkulai Grama Sevakar Division (1516 Tamil families), Kokku –Thoduvai Grama Sevakar Division (3306 Tamil families), Vavunia North Grama Sevakar Division (1342 Tamil families), Other Divisions of Mullaitivu District including Naiyaru and Kumulamunai ( 2011 Tamil families) were asked to vacate their homes and farmlands within 48 hours to clear the area from unauthorized land-grabs. Most of these families were settled in these areas by the government to the resentments of the neighboring landless Sinhalese majority. The families included those of Sinhalese ex-convicts who had served time for minor crimes like illegal alcohol brewing, thuggery, and intimidation.\n\nSimultaneously land given to 14 Tamil entrepreneurs, including Kent Farm and Dollar Farm, on 99 years lease was also cancelled and taken over by the government.\n\nThe Slaw enforcement agencies did translate its warning and used force. From 1988–89 Sinhalese villages in Weli Oya was put on a war-footing. A total of 3364 families, most of them landless peasants, were settled in Weli Oya. A further 35,000 persons comprising 5, 925 families were also settled under the same scheme.\n\nTamils were pained and incensed by the eviction of the Indian Tamil labourers from the Kent and Dollar Farms and by the harassment meted out to the Tamils of the nearby traditional villages. They lost faith on the reasonableness of the Sinhala leaders.\n\nAbout 50 LTTE cadres travelled in the night in two buses armed with rifles, machine guns and grenades. One of the buses sped to Dollar Farm and the other to Kent Farm. The attacks was timed to start at about the same time in the early hours of the morning.\nThe LTTE fighters shot and hacked the guards, the women and children and most of the male members of the families. Some of the prisoners were thrust into a room in a building and blasted with explosives. Sixty-two Sinhalese including three jail-guards were killed. The second bus proceeded to the Kent Farm eight kilometres away and killed 20 more home guards.\n\nThe police and the troops conducted a cordon and search operation and the government announced that the troops had killed 30 terrorists.\n\nThe death toll of Sinhalese civilians killed by the LTTE attack numbered 62 males, mostly armed home guards or ex-convicts settled.The LTTE hacked large numbers of women and children as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46177995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46177995", "title": "LibrePlanet", "text": "LibrePlanet\n\nLibrePlanet (literally, \"Free Planet\") is a community project created and supported by the Free Software Foundation. Its objective is the promotion of free software around the world by bringing every year an international conference to local communities and organizations.\n\nThe project was born in 2006, at a gathering of members associated with the Foundation and the will to organize into geographical groups. The wiki serves as the primary portal for people who want to become involved in free software activism in local, grassroots modes of cooperation.\n\nThe conference is organized annually by the Free Software Foundation in or around Boston, Massachusetts and staffed by a mixture of foundation staff and community volunteers. The conference replaces the FSF Annual Members Meeting (AMM) which ran around the same time each year.\n\nEach conference has its own theme and a website. The event typically includes a speech from FSF president, Richard Stallman and FSF executive director John Sullivan, as well as members of the wider free software community.\n\nEdward Snowden spoke at the convention in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41248088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41248088", "title": "November Music", "text": "November Music\n\nNovember Music is an annual international festival of contemporary music in the Netherlands on various locations in 's-Hertogenbosch. Its motto is 'Today's Music by Today's Makers'.\nThe five-day festival is held in the first half of November. It offers a programme of contemporary composed music, jazz and improvisation, avant-garde world music, sound installations, electronic music, modern opera, music theatre, and interdisciplinary performances. Concerts are staged in different venues.\n\nThe first November Music took place in 1993. There is an ongoing collaboration with various international festivals. In recent years, November Music has also organised concerts outside the scope of the festival in other Dutch cities.\n\nComposers and musicians who have featured in the festival include Sofia Gubaidulina, Mauricio Kagel, Louis Andriessen, Martijn Padding, Heiner Goebbels, Frederic Rzewski, Daniel Johnston, Fred Momotenko, Michel van der Aa, Nik Bärtsch, Kayhan Kalhor, Arve Henriksen, Christian Wolff. Furthermore, groups like Kronos Quartet, Arditti Quartet, musikFabrik, Asko Ensemble, Nederlands Kamerkoor and Raschèr Saxophone Quartet gave presence at November Music.\n\nNovember Music regularly links up Dutch jazz musicians with improvisators from other countries and arranges a first get-together on stage. Some combinations initiated by November Music: Yuri Honing and Craig Taborn, Wolfert Brederode and Mark Feldman, Vijay Iyer and Misha Mengelberg, The Bad Plus and Anton Goudsmit, Marc Ribot and ZAPP4, Martin Fondse and Matthew Herbert, ZAPP4 and Jan Bang, Rembrandt Frerichs Trio and Kayhan Kalhor.\n\nSince 2012 November Music also has a sound art program. Initially organized by sound artist Horst Rickels. Since 2016 sound art organisation iii became the curator of a special line-up featuring sound installations and sound sculptures. Pierre Bastien (among others) was part of the 2016 line-up in this program. The 2017 edition had programmed Yuri Landman, Mariska de Groot and Dmitry Morozov (aka Vtol) and others. This program happens in the Kruithuis, a 1620 built military magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21902213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21902213", "title": "Obama On My Mind", "text": "Obama On My Mind\n\nObama on my Mind is a musical play about the 2008 presidential campaign of Barack Obama by British crime writer and film producer Teddy Hayes.\n\nThe play, a musical comedy, is a campaign story set the week after the 2008 Republican National Convention.\n\nReviews were strongly negative. Lyn Gardner, a British reviewer wrote a critical review in \"The Guardian\" after having seen the show at the Hen and Chickens Theatre where the musical made its debut to mostly sold out crowds, describing the musical as \"opportunistic\", and as a \"bizarrely unfocused text - an apparently unedited stream of consciousness\".\n\nHowever one year later the play was taken to Seattle Washington and staged at the Langston Hughes Theater where it was positively reviewed, championed and supported by African American audiences as a piece of entertainment that reflected both the humour as well as all of the events surrounding the jaw dropping surprise of an African American being elected as US president. The Broadway World described the play as a \"politically inspired comedic romp featuring a motley crew of loyal, obsessive and downright peculiar personalities, striving to get their candidate into the White House.\"\nPress Launch\n"}
{"id": "249473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249473", "title": "Open Source Development Labs", "text": "Open Source Development Labs\n\nOpen Source Development Labs (OSDL) was a non-profit organization supported by a global consortium tasked to \"accelerate the deployment of Linux for enterprise computing.\" Founded in 2000, its goals included \"to be the recognized center-of-gravity for the Linux industry.\" OSDL positioned itself as the \"industry's first independent, non-profit lab for developers who are adding enterprise capabilities to Linux.\" The headquarters was first incorporated in San Francisco but later relocated to Beaverton in Oregon with second facility in Yokohama, Japan.\n\nOn January 22, 2007, OSDL and the Free Standards Group merged to form the Linux Foundation, narrowing their respective focuses to that of promoting Linux.\n\nOSDL sponsored key industry projects, including industry initiatives to enhance Linux for use in corporate data centres, in telecommunications networks, and on desktop computers. It also:\n\nIts employees included Linus Torvalds, the first OSDL fellow, and Bryce Harrington. In 2005, Andrew \"Tridge\" Tridgell was the second OSDL fellow for a year.\n\nIt had data centers in Beaverton (Oregon, United States) and Yokohama (Japan).\n\nOSDL had investment backers that included: 7 funders of Computer Associates, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Ltd., Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Intel Corporation, Nippon Electric Corporation, as well as a large collection of independent software vendors, end-user companies and educational institutions. A steering committee composed of representatives from the investment backers directed OSDL, which also had a significant staff of its own.\n\nOSDL had established four Working Groups since 2002:\n\n"}
{"id": "689551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689551", "title": "Oregon Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Oregon Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Oregon Shakespeare Festival (OSF) is a regional repertory theatre in Ashland, Oregon, United States. Each year, the Festival produces eleven plays, usually from three to five by Shakespeare and the remainder by other playwrights, on three stages during an eight-month season beginning in mid-February. From its inception in 1935 through the end of the 2017 season (excepting the war years 1941–1946) the Festival has presented all 37 of Shakespeare's plays a total of 312 times and beginning in 1960, 341 non-Shakespeare plays for a total of over 30,000 performances. It has completed the complete Shakespeare canon of 37 plays in 1958, 1978, 1997, and 2016. The Festival welcomed its millionth visitor in 1971, its 10-millionth in 2001, and its 20-millionth visitor in 2015. A complete list by year and theater is available at the \"Main article:\" Production history of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival.\n\n A season at OSF consists of a wide range of classic and contemporary plays produced in three theatres. Three plays are staged in the outdoor Allen Elizabethan Theatre, three in the Thomas Theatre, and five in the Angus Bowmer Theatre. OSF also provides a broad range of educational programs for middle schools, high schools, college students, teachers, and theatre professionals. While OSF has produced non-Shakespearean works since 1960, each season continues to include three to five Shakespeare plays. Since 1935, it has staged Shakespeare's complete canon three times, completing the first cycle in 1958 with a production of \"Troilus and Cressida\" and completing the second and third cycles in 1978 and 1997. Since 2000, there has also been at least one new work each season from playwrights such as Octavio Solis and Robert Schenkkan.\n\nEach year, the Festival offers 750 to 800 performances from February through late October or early November, to a total audience of about 400,000. The company consists of about 675 paid staff and 700 volunteers. The Oregon Shakespeare Festival is listed as a Major Festival in the book \"Shakespeare Festivals Around the World\".\n\nIn addition to the plays, beginning in 1951 a free outdoor \"Green Show\" drawing audiences of 600 to 1200, often including non-playgoers, has preceded the evening plays from June through October from a modular steel stage with a sprung floor for the dancers, a removable wheelchair ramp for performers with disabilities, and built-in storage facilities that eliminate carting equipment from and to distant storage facilities six days a week. Originally, it offered Elizabethan music and dancers. From 1966 till 2007, it consisted of three Renaissance-themed shows in rotation inspired by the plays showing in the Allen Elizabethan Theatre. Live music was supplied by the Terra Nova Consort and other guest musicians and modern dance was performed by Dance Kaleidoscope. In 2008, the Green Show was revamped. The nightly shows now vary widely with performers such as a dance group from Mexico or India one night, clowns doing ballet on stilts the next, and a classical music quartet on another. A fire show, juggler, or magician might be seen along with improv, metal, or rock-n-roll variations on Shakespeare. Individual performers, groups, choirs, bands, and orchestras may present Afro-Cuban, baroque, blues, classical, contemporary, cowboy, funk, gospel, hip-hop, jazz, mariachi, marimba, poetry, marionette, renaissance, or salsa, sometimes combined in unexpected ways.\nIn 1893, the residents of Ashland built a facility to host Chautauqua events. In its heyday, it accommodated audiences of 1,500 for appearances by the likes of John Philip Sousa and William Jennings Bryan during annual 10-day seasons.\n\nIn 1917, a new domed structure was built at the site, but it fell into disrepair after the Chautauqua movement died out in the 1920s. In 1935, the similarity of the remaining wall of the then roofless Chautauqua building to Elizabethan theatres inspired Southern Oregon Normal School drama professor Angus L. Bowmer to propose using it to present plays by Shakespeare. Ashland city leaders loaned him a sum \"not to exceed $400\" (approximately equivalent to $ in 2014) to present two plays as part of the city's Independence Day celebration. However, they pressed Bowmer to add boxing matches to cover the expected deficit. Bowmer agreed, feeling such an event was in perfect keeping with the bawdiness of Elizabethan theatre, and the performances went forward. The Works Progress Administration helped construct a makeshift Elizabethan stage on the Chautauqua site, and confidently billing it as the \"First Annual Oregon Shakespearean Festival\", Bowmer presented \"Twelfth Night\" on July 2 and July 4, 1935, and \"The Merchant of Venice\" on July 3, directing and playing the lead roles in both plays himself. Reserved seats cost $1, with general admission of $.50 for adults and $.25 for children (approximately equivalent to $17, $8.50 and $4.25 in 2014). Ironically, the profit from the plays covered the losses the boxing matches incurred.\nThe Festival has continued ever since (excepting 1941–1946 while Bowmer served in World War II), and quickly developed a reputation for quality productions. Angus Bowmer's first wife Lois served as art director, creating both costumes and scenery during the formative years of the Festival from 1935 to 1940 years. In 1939, OSF took a production of \"The Taming of the Shrew\" to the Golden Gate International Exposition in San Francisco that was nationally broadcast on radio. The lead actress, learning at the last minute the broadcast would be to a national audience, suffered a panic attack, was rushed to the hospital and the stand-in took over. The scripts didn't arrive on the set until three minutes before air time. The Festival achieved widespread national recognition when, from 1951 to 1973, NBC broadcast abbreviated performances each year that were carried by more than 100 stations and, after 1954 on Armed Forces Radio and Radio Free Europe. The programs won favorable review from critics and people began to come from around the country. The programs led Life magazine to do a story on the Festival in 1957, bringing even more people to the plays. The NBC programs and the subsequent attention go a long way to explaining the mystery of how a tiny out-of-the-way timber town in the Northwest became a theatrical and tourist Mecca.\n\nBing Crosby served as an honorary director of the festival from 1949 to 1951. Charles Laughton visited in 1961, saying \"I have just seen the four best productions of Shakespeare that I have ever seen in my life.\" Laughton begged to play King Lear, but died in 1962 before he could fulfill the dream. Stacy Keach was a cast member in 1962 and 1963. Duke Ellington and his orchestra presented a benefit concert in 1966 that brought many luminaries to Ashland.\n\n1952 saw the birth of the tradition of closing the outdoor season with a ceremony in which many of company members enter the darkened theater carrying candles and a company member selected for the honor speaks Prospero's words from Act IV Scene I of the Tempest beginning, \"Our revels now are ended. These our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits and Are melted into air, into thin air…\" On completion of the speech all extinguish the flames and file silently out of the theatre.\n\nThe tradition of opening the outdoor season with a Feast of Will (initially the Feasting of the Tribe of Will) was initiated in 1956 in Lithia Park with Miss Oregon and then state senator Mark Hatfield attending.\n\nThe City of Portland approached OSF in the late 1970s about joining the art scene there, leading to the building of a new center in Portland. In 1986, OSF was again approached about producing in the new Portland Center for the Performing Arts, leading to the launch in November 1988 of a season of five plays including Shaw's \"Heartbreak House\" and Shakespeare's \"Pericles, Prince of Tyre\", the first of four productions that transferred to or from Ashland. At the invitation of the City of Portland, OSF established a resident theatre in the Portland Center for the Performing Arts in 1988 that spun off to independence in 1994 as Portland Center Stage. Those six seasons ran from November–April, allowing many company members to work in both cities. In 1990-1991 Portland imported rotating repertory from OSF, a company of 10 actors performing 43 roles.\n\nIn 1986, the Festival received the President's Volunteer Action Award; in 1987 it initiated Daedalus, a fundraiser to help victims of HIV/AIDS that has continued annually ever since.\nA second theatre, the indoor Angus Bowmer Theatre (see below), opened in 1970, enabling OSF to expand its season into the spring and fall; within a year, attendance tripled to 150,000. Angus L. Bowmerretired in 1971, and leadership of the Festival passed to Jerry Turner, a respected actor/director and later a translator of Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg, who served as artistic director until 1991. He widened the Festival repertory to production of classics by the likes of Molière, Ibsen, and Chekhov. By 1976, the festival was filling 99% of its seats while offering some 275 performances of eight plays each season. In 1977, the Festival opened a third theatre, dubbed the Black Swan (see below), in what originally was an auto dealership, and attendance reached 300,000. By 1979, the year that Bowmer died, the Festival was producing 11 plays a season, the number that has been standard ever since. In 1983 OSF won both its first Tony Award for outstanding achievement in regional theatre and the National Governors' Association Award for distinguished service to the arts, the first ever to a performing arts organization.\n\nThe Oregon Shakespearean Festival was renamed the Oregon Shakespeare Festival in 1988. Turner retired in 1991 and actor/director Henry Woronicz took control from 1991 to 1996. When Woronicz left in 1996, OSF recruited Libby Appel from the highly respected Indiana Repertory Theatre, and a guest director at OSF from 1988 to 1991. She served as Artistic Director from 1996 through 2007. In 1997, the OSF-commissioned \"The Magic Fire\" was presented at the John F. Kennedy Center and named by \"Time\" among the year's best plays. In 2002, the Thomas Theatre (see below) replaced the Black Swan as the venue for small, experimental productions in a Black box theatre. In 2003, \"Time\" named OSF as the second best regional theatre in the United States (Chicago's Goodman Theater was first).\n\nCurrent Artistic Director Bill Rauch succeeded Appel in 2008. Rauch was the co-founder and artistic director of the Cornerstone Theater Company in Los Angeles and had been a guest director at OSF for six seasons prior to his appointment. His vision includes making direct connections between classic plays and contemporary concerns, incorporating musicals into the annual selection of plays, exploring beyond the Western canon to incorporate Asian and African epics into the Festival, and reaching out to youth. While continuing to work with established playwrights, he has commissioned works by new ones, and has initiated the Black Swan Lab to develop new works for the stage. Each year, ten OSF actors are assigned to the Lab to work with Bill Rauch, OSF Dramaturg Lue Douthit, and Producer Sarah Rasmusen as one of their regular repertory assignments. In recognition of his work, he received the Margo Jones Award for his impact on American theatre in 2009 and the 2018 Ivy Behune Award from Actors Equity.\n\nInspired by Shakespeare's canon of plays, Rauch initiated a 10-year program to commission of up to 37 new plays collectively called \"American Revolutions: the United States History Cycle\". Under the direction of Alison Carey, the plays look at moments of change in America's past. Grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Collins Foundation, the Edgerton Foundation, the Harold and Mimi Steinberg Trust, and the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation support American Revolutions. Through December 2016, 32 plays have been commissioned and ten of these have reached the stage, beginning with \"American Night: The Ballad of Juan Jose\" (2010). It was followed by \"Ghost Light\" (2011); \"The March\" (2011 at Steppenwolf Theatre Company); \"Party People\" and \"All the Way\" (2012); \"The Liquid Plain\" (2013); the sequel to \"All the Way\", \"The Great Society\" (2014, commissioned by and co-produced with Seattle Repertory Theatre), \"Sweat\" (2015), \"Indecent\" (2015 at Yale Repertory Theatre and La Jolla Playhouse; 2016 at Vineyard Theatre; 2017 on Broadway), and \"Roe\" (co-produced with Arena Stage and Berkeley Repertory Theatre).\n\nThrough December 2014, \"All the Way\" has received seven awards including co-winner of the inaugural 2013 Edward M. Kennedy Prize for Drama Inspired by American History; the 2014 Tony Award for Best Play, the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Play, the Drama League Award for Outstanding Production of a Broadway Play, the Outer Critics Circle Award for Outstanding New Play, the Elliott Norton Award for Outstanding Production by a Large Resident Theatre, and the IRNE Award for Best New Play, Large Theater. In addition, the 2014 Tony Award for best actor went to Bryan Cranston for his portrayal of Lyndon Johnson in the Broadway production of \"All the Way\". Partnerships with Arena Stage, Berkeley Repertory Theatre, Center Stage, Company One, Guthrie Theater, Penumbra Theatre Company Playwrights Center, The Public Theater, Seattle Repertory Theatre and Steppenwolf Theatre Company ensure that the plays will reach beyond their original OSF audience. Time (insert reference to 6 December 2017 issue) magazine named Lynn Nottage's Sweat and Paula Vogel's Indecent #1 and #3, respectively, to their list of the \"Top 10 Plays and Musicals of 2017\", both originating as part of the American Revolutions project at OSF.\n\nIn February 2018, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival announced that Rauch would be leaving after completing the 2019 season to become artistic director of the new Perelman Center at the World Trade Center in New York.\nColumbia University Professor John McWhorter has pointed out that Shakespeare's language is no longer entirely ours. Granted, he says, with the help of notes and time to study them, you can work out the sense of some of the obscure dialogue, but not in a theatre in a matter of seconds while the action speeds by and the actors deliver the lines with all the urgency of the moment then move on. Its time, goes the argument of many scholars, for versions that will do for a contemporary English-speaking public what has been done for much of the world where Shakespeare is performed in the native language of the audience—make every word intelligible.\n\nPlay on! is an OSF project being carried out by 36 playwrights paired with dramaturgs working in concert with 17 different theatres and academic institutions commissioned to translate all 39 plays attributed to Shakespeare into contemporary modern English by 31 December 2018. Each playwright is asked to respect the language, meter, rhythm, metaphor, image, rhyme, rhetoric, and emotional content of the original. The goal is 39 unique side-by-side companion translations that are both performable and useful reference texts for classrooms and productions.\n\nWhile each playwright will take his or her own approach, Kenneth Cavander, the playwright who undertook and completed this task for \"Timon of Athens\" felt that the trick was to leave what is immediate and alive to our ears in the original untouched and only elsewhere to unpack whatever might hinder the free flow of the story in a way that is clear, not over-reverent, and above all, actable, so that the result is clear and compelling to a contemporary audience while preserving the spirit of the original.\n\nIn 2013, 108,388 individuals bought 407,787 tickets, seeing an average of 3.76 plays each. Of these, 92,234 people were visitors to the area spending $54,534,565 beyond the price of their theater tickets. Added to the $32,233,543 in actual Festival expenditures, the direct contribution to the local economy in 2013 was $86,768,108. In 2015, 103,946 individuals bought 390,380 tickets, seeing an average of 3.3 plays each. Of these, 88,784 people were visitors to the area spending $55,332,927 beyond the price of their theater tickets. Added to the $35,182,783 in actual Festival expenditures, the direct contribution to the local economy in 2015 was $90,515,710. The estimated total contribution based on the multiplier effect brought total impact to $251,627,515 in 2013 and to $262,495,558 in 2014. The multiplier effect measures how often each dollar received is spent partly on further local goods and services. For OSF, 2.9 is the estimated multiplier.\n\nAttendance in 2014 at 794 performances of eleven plays was 398,289, 88% of capacity. Attendance in 2015 at 786 performances of eleven plays was 390,387, 87% of capacity. In 2017, overall attendance at 795 performances was 381,378, 82% of capacity, generating $21.9 million in ticket sales. The difference was accounted for by the eight fewer scheduled performances, variations in seating configurations, cancellation of five outdoor performances in 2015 and of nine outdoor performances in 2017 due to smoke from forest fires.\n\nThe Oregon Shakespeare Festival is an active community citizen. It participates each year in Ashland's Martin Luther King celebration, Juneteenth celebration of the Emancipation Proclamation, and Fourth of July Parade. The Green Show (see above) and Hip-Hop Poetry Open Mic are free. The Daedalus Project is an annual fund-raising event managed by company members since 1988 in support of HIV/AIDS charitable organizations. It features a morning fun run, an afternoon play reading, an \"arts and treasures\" sale and an evening variety show and underwear parade.\n\nIn 2016, the Festival hosted the fifth biennial national Asian American Theater Conference and Festival. In addition to a full slate of conference sessions during the week, the event included six original plays, five play readings, and three Green Shows (see above). Participants also had an opportunity to see several regular Festival performances, two of which had an Asian setting and one an Asian-American theme.\n\nThe Oregon Shakespeare Festival occupies a campus adjacent to Lithia Park and the Plaza in Ashland, Oregon. The primary buildings are the three theatres, Carpenter Hall, and the Camps, Pioneer, and Administration buildings, all surrounding an open central court, locally known as \"The Bricks\" that ties everything together into an architecturally coherent whole and facilitates movement. It also provides a stage for the nightly Green Shows (see above) from June through September. Other facilities include the Black Swan, which serves as a laboratory for the development of new plays, the production facility, the costume shop, classrooms, and the Hay Patton Rehearsal Center. Other buildings are off campus.\nThe Allen Elizabethan Theatre has evolved since the founding of the Shakespeare Festival when the first performance of \"Twelfth Night\" was presented on July 2, 1935.\n\nThe design for the first outdoor OSF Elizabethan Theatre was sketched by Angus L. Bowmer based on his recollection of productions at the University of Washington in which he had acted as a student. Ashland, Oregon obtained WPA funds in 1935 to build it within the high circular walls that remained in the roofless shell of the abandoned Chautauqua theatre. Bowmer extended the walls to reduce the stage width to fifty-five feet, and painted the extensions to resemble half-timbered buildings. He designed a thrust stage—one projecting toward the audience—with a balcony. Two columns helped divide the main stage into forestage, middle stage, and inner stage areas. Illustrating the improvised nature of it all, actors doubled as stage hands, stage lighting was housed in coffee cans, and string beans were planted along the walls to improve sound quality! Fifty cent general admission seating was on benches just behind the one-dollar reserved seating on folding chairs. This theatre was torn down during World War II.\n\nThe second outdoor Elizabethan Theatre was built in 1947 from plans drawn up by University of Washington drama professor John Conway. The main stage became trapezoidal, with entries added on either side, and windows added above them flanking the balcony stage. A low railing gave a finished appearance to the forestage. Chairs arranged to improve sight lines replaced bench seating. Backstage areas were added gradually and haphazardly, until the ramshackle result was ordered torn down as a fire hazard in 1958.\n\nThe next year saw the opening of the current outdoor theatre, whose name was changed from Elizabethan to Allen Elizabethan Theatre in October, 2013. Patterned on London's 1599 Fortune Theatre and designed by Richard L. Hay, it incorporated all the stage dimensions mentioned in the Fortune contract. The trapezoidal stage was retained but the façade was extended to three stories, resulting in a forestage, middle stage, inner below, inner above (the old balcony), and a musicians' gallery. The wings were provided with second-story windows. Each provides acting areas, creating many staging possibilities. A pitched, shingled roof enhances the half-timbered façade. A windowed gable was extended from the center of the roof to cover and define the middle stage. Just before each performance, an actor opens the gable window, and in keeping with Elizabethan tradition signaling a play in progress, runs a flag up the pole to the sound of a trumpet and doffs his cap to the audience.\n\nThe result is an approximate replica of the Fortune Theatre. The known but incomplete dimensions apply only to the stage. The original specifications sometimes say no more than \"to be built like the Globe,\" for which there are no plans or details. The remotely operated lighting, on scaffolding on either side of the stage, of course did not exist in the original and the current site rather than the original architecture determines the shape of the auditorium. Twelve hundred seats in slightly offset arcs ascend the original hillside, giving an excellent view of the stage from each seat. The old Chautauqua theatre walls, now ivy-covered, remain as the outer perimeter of the theatre.\n\nThe $7.6 million Paul Allen Pavilion was added in 1992. It houses a control room, and audience services including infrared hearing devices, blankets, pillows and food and drink, which are allowed in the auditorium. Several hundred seats were moved to a balcony and two boxes, further improving sightlines and acoustics. Vomitoria (colloquially \"voms\"), the traditional name for entryways for actors from under the seating area, were added and the lighting scaffolds were eliminated.\n\nEach year, three plays are offered in rotation Tuesdays through Sundays in the Allen Elizabethan Theatre from late June to early October.\n\nAn April 1968 report by the Bureau of Business and Economic Research of the University of Oregon pointed to the lost opportunity represented by turning away thousands of people by the Oregon Shakespeare Festival each year. It further noted that the Festival had become an important economic engine for southern Oregon, and recommended addition of an indoor theatre. This led the City of Ashland to apply to the Economic Development Administration of the Department of Commerce in Fall 1968 for a $1,792,000 project grant with the Angus Bowmer Theatre as the keystone. The plan also called for a parking building, a remodeled administration building and box office, a scene shop and exhibit hall that later would become the OSF Black Swan, landscaping, and street realignment. $896,000 was approved in April 1969, to match an equal amount to be raised through private donations. The fund drive quickly exceeded its goal and ground for the new theatre was broken on December 18, 1969.\n\nThe theatre was ready just five months later and opened with a production of \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead,\" selected to recognize the Shakespearean origin of the Festival but to signal that the Festical also was ready to broaden its horizons by incorporating modern plays into its repertoire. Reinforcing that signal, \"The Fantasticks\" and \"You Can't Take it with You\" were also presented during that first six-week season.\n\nThe Angus Bowmer Theatre seats between 592 and 610 patrons depending on configuration. Although about half the size of the outdoor theatre, it more than doubled audience capacity by making it possible to hold matinee performances and to extend the season into spring and fall.\n\nThe design by Richard L. Hay with architects Kirk, Wallace and McKinley of Seattle and contractor Robert D. Morrow, Inc., Salem, Oregon was at once basic, flexible, functional and innovative. All seats are within of the stage, arranged with only two side aisles and wide spaces between rows. Dark colors resist reflection and draw the eye to the stage. The forestage is on a hydraulic lift system that can emulate the thrust stage of the OSF Allen Elizabethan Theatre, form a more conventional proscenium front, move below auditorium floor level to form an orchestra pit, or drop two stories for storage of equipment or scenery. The walls of the auditorium can swing in to close down the playing area or open to accommodate larger productions.\nIllustrating these characteristics, the first picture is the set for August Wilson's \"Fences\". The second, taken two hours later, is the set for the ancient Hindu classic \"The Clay Cart\". Stage crews for the two indoor theatres must complete set changes of this scope six days a week between the end of a matinee and the \"call\" before the evening curtain (the outdoor stage changes daily). This illustrates the nature of true repertory theater, which allows the playgoer to see different plays on the same day on the same stage, but requires designing and making sets to withstand constant rapid assembly, disassembly and return to accessible storage to await the next change of set.\n\nIn what then Executive Director Paul Nicholson called the biggest crisis in the history of the Festival, a crack was discovered in the seventy-foot long, six and one-half foot high main ceiling support beam of the Bowmer Theatre two hours before the 18 June 2011 matinee. Shows were immediately relocated to other venues as work progressed to repair the beam. A 598-seat tent, \"Bowmer in the Park\", was erected as a temporary replacement venue. A single set was designed and built to serve four very different shows, and the shows themselves were re-staged while keeping the artistic vision of each as intact as possible. Thirty-one performances were given in the tent and averaged 82% of capacity generating approximately $650,000 in revenue against approximately $800,000 for the tent itself, $1,000,000 in lost revenue from ticket returns, and $330,000 in repair costs. The Bowmer reopened on 2 August, a month ahead of the initial estimate. The Festival filed an insurance claim for $3.58 million and received checks in March 2012 for $330,000 to cover the cost of repairs and $2.984 million covering much of the lost revenue, leaving about $200,000, primarily representing the cost of the temporary tent theater itself, unresolved.\n\nThe Black Swan (G on the OSF campus map above) served as the Festival's third theatre from 1977 to 2001. The building, originally an automobile dealership, was bought in 1969 as a scene shop and rehearsal hall. Company members began using it to stage \"midnight\" readings for one another. They invited friends who brought other friends. Artistic Director Jerry Turner recognized the opportunity to take risks with unconventional staging and subjects, and called for its development as a third OSF theatre. Fitting a theatre into the existing building was challenging. It could hold only 138 seats, all within five rows of the stage. There had to be, as designer Richard Hay put it, a \"certain amount of tucking and squeezing.\" Each director had to solve the problem of an immovable roof support in the middle of the stage. For instance, in one production, it became a crucifixion after a horizontal piece added, . The theatre reverted to its earlier roles in 2002 when it was replaced by the New Theater, now renamed the Thomas Theatre. Among those roles are rehearsal space, meeting and audition rooms, classes, and since 2011 as a home for the Black Swan Lab (see above).\n\nThe limitations stemming from adapting an existing building as the Black Swan led to the design and building of a third theatre that provided flexible seating and increased capacity while maintaining the intimacy of the Black Swan. Opened in March 2002 and originally named the New Theatre, it was renamed the Thomas Theatre in 2013 as a result of a generous $4.5 million gift from a group of donors. The name is in recognition of long-time OSF development director Peter Thomas who died in March 2010. The Thomas Theatre expands the possibilities for experiment and innovation while maintaining the intimacy of the Black Swan, no seat being more than six rows from the stage. Richard L. Hay designed the theatre space. Architects Thomas Hacker and Associates of Portland designed the building. The contractor was Emerick Construction, and acoustical engineering was provided by Dohn and Associates. The seats can be arranged in three configurations. In arena mode, a stage of is surrounded on all four sides by 360 seats. In three-quarter thrust mode, a stage is surrounded on three sides by 270 seats, and in avenue mode, a stage provides 228 seats on two sides. There is a trap room under the stage and a fly loft at one end. A computer controls 300 circuits and over 400 lights of various types. The remainder of the building is given over to downstairs and upstairs lobbies, concessions, access distribution, archives (see below), storage, laundry room, green room, quiet room, warm-up room, dressing space for 18 actors, showers/restrooms, costume and wig rooms, stage manager's office, maintenance space, and storage for props and set pieces.\n\nThe Box Office (J on the OSF campus map above) is on the same courtyard as the Thomas Theatre. The Festival acquired the Administration Building (C) in April 1967. Forming the northern boundary of the campus, the building houses the Group Sales Office (D), artistic, business, communication, education, human resources, development, community productions, mailroom, and an annex to the costume shop. The Festival Welcome Center (E), on the northern side of the building facing Main Street, offers information about OSF and Ashland, houses a small rotating exhibit of costumes from past shows, and adjoins the Margery Bailey Room, otherwise known as the Education Center. The adjacent Camps Building (A) houses the members' lounge, marketing offices, and a meeting room.\n\nJust off the courtyard, the Pioneer Building houses the Festival's costume shop. The staff of over 60 creates the costumes and accessories in three main studios on the lower floor of the building and in an extension of the Administration Building. Also in this area are offices and fitting rooms for the costume designers and costume design assistants, a costume props area and a vented paint room. Upstairs is a dye room, lounge, laundry, storage room, and office. During the height of costume production each season, a wig shop and additional studio is open in the basement of the Angus Bowmer Theatre.\n\nThe Festival acquired Carpenter Hall (I) in October 1973, renovating it to accommodate lectures, concerts, rehearsals, meetings and Festival and community events. The Bill Patton Garden (K) provides the venue for free informal summer noon talks by OSF actors and staff. The Tudor Guild, a separate non-profit corporation, operates the Tudor Guild Gift Shop (B) and Brass Rubbing Center (K) where visitors can make rubbings of facsimiles of 55 historic English brasses under expert guidance. Just off campus, a purpose-equipped fitness center is staffed by two professional trainers who help prepare actors for physically demanding roles that often require acrobatics, fights, and pratfalls and monitored during additional open hours by a volunteer.\n\nThe Festival completed a $7.2 million purpose-built production facility in neighboring Talent, Oregon, in November 2013 that is home to a multi-function staff of 40. The building houses custom-designed technologically advanced set and prop construction and scene painting facilities. The scene shop has an extensive pit area that precisely duplicates the trap doors in the theaters themselves, allowing for precise sizing, testing of assembly and disassembly, and automating elevator cues. Lighting in the painting areas duplicates that in the theaters, guaranteeing desired colors. The building also houses OSF's costume rental business, which has over 50,000 costumes and over 15,000 costume props such as armor, crowns, and wigs available for rent by other theaters, television and movie producers, and corporations.\n\nWith the removal of the scene construction shop in 2014 from its location in a building a block from the Festival campus to the new Production Building (see above), a thirteen-month transformation began of the building into the Hay-Patton Rehearsal Center by demolishing everything except the masonry exterior and the steel framework and raising the second floor three feet. Following a plan developed by Ogden Roemer Wilkerson Architecture carried out by Adroit Construction at a cost of $4.4 million, it hosted its first rehearsal on 29 December 2015. The building is equipped with a sophisticated sound system and has six rehearsal halls, three of them some , sufficient precisely duplicate any of the three Festival theatres, and one which matches the Thomas Theatre stage. All six include fully sprung floors to protect actors' joints when dancing, rehearsing stage combat, or similar physical activities. The LED lighting system is zoned and dimmable, the ceilings have steel tracks which allow for suspension of scenery, lights, loudspeakers and even people. Some have special features such as small conversation areas and dance-style mirrors. Other features include a stage management office, a recording studio, a movement studio focused on the Feldenkrais Method, a voice studio for work on vocal technique, stamina, and dialect; a loading dock, a conference room, showers, two warmup spaces that double as small meeting rooms, two green rooms equipped with refrigerator, storage cases, sink, dishwasher, and tables (custom-made by the prop shop) and chairs.\n\nOSF is a non-profit corporation managed under US and Oregon law by a 32-member Board of Directors nominated and elected for eight-year terms. The endowment has a net worth in excess of $30 million that returns about $1.2 million to support the annual operating budget. It is managed by seven trustees who are selected for five-year terms by the Board of Directors.\n\nOSF is supported in part by corporate and individual donors through direct support of individual plays and annual non-voting memberships. These are offered at nine levels, each with its own privileges beginning with basic memberships for $75 which includes access to the member's lounge and a 10% discount in the Tudor Guild shop. Some 750 who contribute $1250-$2999 a year are designated Producer members, enjoying beyond all the benefits of the previous category, two complimentary tickets to plays, twice weekly coffees during which a cast member is interviewed, and three events each including three discussions on aspects of the year's productions and a dinner (at additional cost) with the actors. Additional benefits accrue to 175 Producer's Circle members who contribute $3000-$5999 in a year, to upward of 80 Chautauqua Guild and Chautauqua members who contribute $6000-$24,999, while those contributing $25,000 or more annually join the Artistic Director's Circle at one of four levels.\n\nNearly 400 (many of whom also are annual members) who have supported the Festival through planned gifts are members of the Southampton Society, named for the Earl of Southampton who was Shakespeare's great patron. They are invited to one three-day event each season similar to the three for Producer members described above. Finally, some 150 people join the Bowmer Society annually providing partial support of the educational efforts of the Festival, described below.\n\nThe OSF professional staff is organized into administrative, artistic, education, and production sections.\n\nThe administrative staff of approximately 125 is supervised by Executive Director Cynthia Rider (2013-) who follows Paul Nicholson (1995-2012) and William Patton (1955-1995). The Director of Finance and Administration supervises the physical plant (custodial services, maintenance, and security), accounting, mail room, and receptionists. The Director of Marketing and Communication supervises the box office, membership services, archives (see below), publications and media, marketing, and audience services, which itself includes house managers, ushers, concessions, and access staff for handicapped patrons (see below). The Director of Development supervises institutional giving and major gifts. The Director of ITS manages information technology. The Director of Human Resources manages employees, volunteer and events programs (see below), safety, and a professional development program called FAIR (Fellowships, Assistantships, Internships, and Residencies) that provides students aspiring to a career in theater with direct experience of best practices across all aspects of professional theatre. Fellows work directly with senior management while expanding their personal networks. Three residencies varying from four to eleven months are exclusive to the Dramaturgy and Literary Management Department. Twenty-five to thirty Assistantships annually provide hands-on opportunities in virtually every area of the organization by pairing recipients with an appropriate OSF staff member for an average of three months. Finally, 15-20 unpaid Internships of two to four months annually provide emerging artists and administrators with hands-on experience by pairing them with a Festival staff member in the assistant's area of interest. Internships may fulfill academic requirements determined by recipient's home academic institution.\n\nArtistic Director Bill Rauch (see above) leads a staff consisting of approximately 450. The Artistic Director selects the plays and directors for each season, and chooses the actors, who number between 90 and 120, and the musicians and dancers who number approximately 25. The Associate Artistic Director, in turn, supervises scenic, lighting, and costume design, Fight Director and the dramaturgs.\n\nA Voice and Text Director is assigned to every play from pre-production through the opening performance. OSF employs two full-time voice and text directors and one or two guest artists each year to meet the demand for these specialists. They help the actors and directors craft vocal choices that will be theatrically effective and sustainable through the run of the show. This can involve work on posture, breath support, resonant placement, muscularity of articulation and screaming technique. They also work with the actors on the text of the play, often in one-on-one sessions. This can include examination of meter, rhythm, sound patterning such as alliteration and rhyme, imagery, and rhetorical structure and devices such as antithesis and repetition. When required, they coach the actors in accents and dialects based on samples of native speakers and work with each actor to find a sound that is as authentic as possible to the character's background but also intelligible in a contemporary theatrical context and conducive to that individual's acting process.\n\nOnce the plays have opened, the resident voice and text staff is on hand to help actors with vocal challenges that may arise, attend periodic performances to give maintenance notes, work with understudies, teach voluntary voice classes to the acting company, provide ongoing professional development support in the form of project or individual session work, and participate in play selection and workshops for upcoming seasons.\n\nThe production staff of approximately 125 is responsible for costumes, lighting, properties, scenery, sound, and stage operations. Costumes are produced by a staff of about 60 (artisans, cutters, designers, dyers, first hands, hair and wig specialists, stitchers, technicians, and wardrobe managers). Scenery is built by a staff of technicians, carpenters, a welder, an engineer and a buyer and moved by a crew of 24 stagehands; lighting staff number eight, and sound and properties each are managed by staffs of six each. A production stage manager, eight stage managers and three production managers ensure the smooth operation of the three theatres and a deck manager coordinates the Green Show.\n\nReflecting the profession of Festival founder Angus Bowmer, a professor of English at the then Southern Oregon Normal School (now Southern Oregon University), education has played an important role at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival from its inception. Under the direction of Joan Langley, the full-time education staff of nine includes the director, both in-residence and outreach program managers and coordinators, a curriculum specialist, and resident teaching artists. The goal is to inspire a lifelong relationship to theater and the works of Shakespeare by offering educational experiences that support each season's plays to a diverse range of students, teachers, and audiences.\n\nThus, the Festival provides a broad range of educational programs for a wide range of ages and interests. The initial focus was on college students and the Institute for Renaissance Studies was formed to meet their needs. The Festival offered short courses, lectures, readings, concerts, and exhibits focused on the plays of the season. Participation was open to all Festival company members and audiences, either for college credit from several universities, or for audit. Coursework was supported by a collection of Renaissance and late-medieval books, manuscripts, and prints now housed in the Southern Oregon University's Hannon Library.\n\nPrograms specifically for teachers include the weekend \"Inside Shakespeare\" and the five-day retreat, \"Shakespeare in the Classroom\" that emphasizes innovative and pedagogical methods to help teachers make the works of Shakespeare involving and accessible to contemporary students.\n\nThe completion of the indoor Angus Bowmer Theatre in 1971 and the subsequent expansion of the Festival season into the school year enabled an increasing variety of educational programs for middle and high school students. Students visiting the Festival itself are the recipients of some 55,000 discounted tickets each year. Some 900 workshops offered each year by OSF actor-teachers enhance the educational value of their visits. The Bowmer Project for Student Playgoers (initiated in 1996) prepares local teachers to teach plays and includes tickets to a performance, a back-stage tour, and a post-show discussion with one of the actors. Each year since 1981, OSF has offered residential Summer Seminars for High School Juniors that enroll 65 students in a two-week program during which they see several plays and learn about on-stage technique and theatre management.\n\nFor those unable to come to the Festival, six pairs of actors participate in the School Visit Program, initiated in 1971, which now reaches some 60,000 students primarily in four states although it has made occasional visits to eight others. Each one-day visit includes two 50-minute performances and one two-hour or two one-hour workshops. Performances are a condensed version of one Shakespeare play, selected scenes from Shakespeare illustrating a single theme, or a combination of Shakespeare and other literature selected to meet the needs of the school being visited.\n\nPrograms of different lengths and formality to meet the needs and interests of adults include Wake Up With Shakespeare, Shakespeare Comprehensive, Festival Noons, Prefaces, Prologues, Park Talks, Road Scholars, and \"Unfolding Seminars.\" \n\nFinally, OSF's Development Department offers educational opportunities through its tours offered in late Fall, often on cruise ships such as Queen Mary 2. Past tours have included two to England focused on Shakespeare, one to Greece and Turkey focused on the beginnings and history of theater, and one along the coasts of France and Spain and to the Canary Islands. These tours feature an intensive schedule of lectures and interactive workshops with four to eight OSF staff and actors, as well as visits to local attractions.\n\nThe OSF website contains information on current educational programming.\n\nAudience Services offers a full range of programs and services for patrons with disabilities. For blind and visually impaired patrons, the Festival has six professional audio describers on staff who provide live audio description for every performance of every play with two weeks advance notice. Braille and large print playbills are available for all productions. Service animals are always welcome. For deaf and hearing-impaired patrons, six American Sign Language interpreted performances with highly trained interpreters are offered each season. Complimentary infrared listening devices and Telecoil hearing aid loops are available in all three of the Festival's theatres, and patrons may communicate with the Festival through the Oregon Telecommunications Relay Service. There is accessible seating in all performance venues, nearby accessible parking, and all of the above accommodations can be provided for the wide range of ancillary events that enrich the OSF experience, such as backstage tours, prefaces, prologues, and park talks. Each season a limited number of performances, post-show meet-and-greets, pre-show introductions, and backstage tours are open-captioned in Spanish.\n\nThe archivists develop, preserve, and maintain a comprehensive collection of documents and oral histories, drawings and photographs, audio and video recordings, and artifacts pertaining to the artistic and administrative history and heritage of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival. Collecting, organizing, and preserving these materials of what otherwise is an ephemeral art form to archival standards is an ongoing effort aided in part by a two-year grant from the National Historical Publications and Research Commission, with material added on an ongoing basis.\n\nThe archives are open Monday through Friday, 9AM to 5PM, and the staff invites any inquiry or reference question by phone or email. Researchers and the general public are welcome to visit the archives by appointment. Other collections are available for research, although some collections have restrictions, and permission must be obtained for their use.\n\nThe Archives include Education department records from 1947 on and document the department's programming and structural evolution. Print materials include annual reports, brochures, calendars, correspondence, course handouts, course readings, news clippings, newsletters, photographs, posters, scripts, statistics and survey reports, study guides, and teacher information kits, guides, and resource kits. Audio and video recordings include radio broadcasts and school visit program performances.\n\nIn May, 2013, the National Endowment for the Humanities awarded the Festival a $200,000 grant to digitize 2649 deteriorating tapes, films and videos and to make them publicly available through its website and the YouTube platform. The collection spans the history of the Festival from its inception in 1935 through 2012 and comprises an unparalleled and comprehensive record of Shakespearean and theatrical performance by a single U.S. theatre company. Included are full-length recordings of 541 of the 570 Festival productions from 1950 to 2012, including three or more varied interpretations of every play in the Shakespearean canon with exemplary casts before live audiences and the ballad opera series. The production recordings are supplemented by 44 adaptations broadcast on NBC radio, more than 100 hours of artist interviews, Shakespeare lectures by nationally and internationally renowned scholars and educators, production music, promotional recordings, and recordings of significant events in the company's history. Also included are the home movies of founder Angus Bowmer, Southern Oregon Normal School events and rare footage of the initial 1935 Festival season!\n\nThe professional staff is augmented by volunteers—approximately 700 contributing about 32,000 hours each year. Tudor Guild volunteers staff the brass rubbing center, concession stands, and gift shop. Volunteers welcome visitors to the campus and answer their questions, staff the Green Show information table and welcome center, facilitate post-matinee discussions, provide concierge services for student groups, and supplement the professional ushers at all three theatres. Behind the scenes, volunteers help with office tasks such as preparing will-call tickets for pickup, sorting mail, filing, copying, mailings, and transcribing interviews. They work in the Archives, Costume Shop, Costume Warehouse, and Scene Shop, help with auditions, and serve as attendants in the company fitness facility. Among occasional tasks too numerous to provide a complete list, volunteers assist with access services and the periodic audience surveys, drive company vehicles, providing transportation for visiting dignitaries, and direct traffic during \"strike\" at the end of the season. Each year, company members present a thank you show titled \"Love's Labors\" for the volunteers.\n\nThe availability of small inexpensive computing platforms, LEDs, and compact powerful batteries allows special effects to be built into props, costumes, and scenery. Lighting, atmospherics, sounds, even motorized movement can be programmed into devices and controlled by the actors or remotely. WiFi and Bluetooth devices allow for wireless communication between the control console and the effect. For example, the LEDs built into a dress can be remotely illuminated and colors changed live while on stage. Costumes in \"Head Over Heels\" (a musical by Lolita Snipes), \"The Wiz\", and \"The Winter's Tale\" are recent examples of wireless control. Lanterns, candles, fireflies, and other effects built into props and scenery also utilize embedded electronics.\n\nThe theatres feature Meyer speakers, Yamaha mixing consoles, Clear-Com Freespeak wireless communication, Sennheiser wireless microphone systems and Qlab software playback for their theater spaces. The Elizabethan Theater underwent a major audio system re-design with Meyer Sound Laboratories in 2014. The install included various types of Mina line arrays (UPQ-1Ps, UPQ-2Ps, MM4-Xps, 500 HPs, UPM-1Xps and UP-4Xps).\n\nAll playgoers are offered a complimentary \"Playbill\" with a synopsis of the plays, cast lists, and directors' statements. All members receive 3 editions of \"Prologue\" each season (one each for spring, summer, and fall). This magazine contains selected articles on directors, actors, costumes, props, and plays each season. Another publication that is made available at higher donor levels is \"Illuminations\", a comprehensive guide to each year's plays. \"Illuminations\" includes synopses, themes, information on playwrights and historical and other contextual information. Each year, the Festival publishes Teachers First! providing information on the season's plays including age suitability, the seasonal calendar, ordering and discount information.\n\nThe annual \"Souvenir Program.\" includes photographic highlights of each play and special articles along with pictures and biographies of actors, playwrights, and the many people who work behind the scenes. A chart emphasizing the repertory nature of OSF lists all the actors and their parts in the plays.\n\nThe Festival also publishes a \"Bard's Scorecard,\" which lists all of William Shakespeare's Plays, the years OSF produced them, and allows repeat patrons to cross off which plays they've seen towards completing the canon.\n\nOSF is a constituent of Theatre Communications Group, the national service organization for the not-for-profit theatre world, and a member of the Shakespeare Theatre Association of America. It operates under contracts with Actors' Equity Association, The Union of Professional Actors and Stage Managers in the United States, and the Stage Directors and Choreographers Society, Inc., an independent national labor union.\n\nThe following plays are scheduled for the 2018 season.\n\nPlays being presented in the Allen Elizabethan Theater (15 June through 14 October):\n\nPlays being presented in the Angus Bowmer Theatre (16 February to 27 October):\n\nPlays being presented in the Thomas Theatre (21 February to 28 October):\n\n"}
{"id": "12923964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12923964", "title": "Pinikpikan", "text": "Pinikpikan\n\nPinikpikan is a dish from the mountains of the Cordillera region in the Philippines. \"Pinikpikan\" comes from the Ilocano word,\"pikpi\", which loosely means to hit repeatedly.\n\nIt is prepared by beating a live chicken with a stick prior to cooking. The beating bruises the chicken's flesh, bringing blood to its surface, which is said to improve the flavour after cooking. The act of beating the chicken, while done in preparation of the dish, violates the Philippine Animal Welfare Act 1998, which includes the following provision:\n\n"}
{"id": "40365082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40365082", "title": "Playwrights' Company", "text": "Playwrights' Company\n\nThe Playwrights' Company (1938–1960) was an American theatrical production company.\n\nMaxwell Anderson, S. N. Behrman, Sidney Howard, Elmer Rice and Robert E. Sherwood \nestablished the Playwrights' Company in 1938 to produce their own plays. Anderson had been frustrated with Broadway producers as well as drama critics. Anderson had stated the goal of the company “to make a center for ourselves within the theatre, and possibly rally the theatre as a whole to new levels by setting a high standard of writing and production,”. The founders had been unhappy with the policies of the Theatre Guild which had previously been their main producer. Robert Anderson, producer Roger L. Stevens, Kurt Weill and lawyer John F. Wharton joined later. It became a major production company. The company was dissolved in 1960 as only two founders were still alive, Behrman (who had already left) and Rice. \n\nAfter Howard's death, the four surviving members of the group created the Sidney Howard Memorial Award in his memory. The $1,500 award was created as a way to encourage new playwrights; to be eligible, one had to have at least one play produced on Broadway in a given season after having little previous success.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "284539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284539", "title": "Roskilde Festival", "text": "Roskilde Festival\n\nThe Roskilde Festival is a Danish music festival held annually south of Roskilde. It is one of the largest music festivals in Europe and the largest in Northern Europe. It was created in 1971 by two high school students, Mogens Sandfær and Jesper Switzer Møller, and promoter Carl Fischer. In 1972, the festival was taken over by the Roskilde Foundation, which has since run the festival as a non-profit organization for development and support of music, culture and humanism. In 2014, the Roskilde Foundation provided festival participants with the opportunity to nominate and vote upon which organizations should receive funds raised by the festival.\n\nThe Roskilde Festival was Denmark's first music-oriented festival created for hippies, and today covers more of the mainstream youth from Scandinavia and the rest of Europe. The Roskilde Festival 2013 had more than 180 performing bands and was attended by some 130,000 festivalgoers, along with more than 21,000 volunteers, 5,000 media people and 3,000 artists – totalling almost 160,000 people who participated in the festival.\n\nUntil the mid-1990s, the festival attracted mostly Scandinavians, but in recent years it has become more and more international (with an especially large influx of Germans, Australians and British).\n\nThe first Roskilde Festival was held on 28 and 29 August 1971, originally named the Sound Festival. It was inspired by festivals and youth gatherings like Newport, Isle of Wight and Woodstock. It was characterized mainly by poor management but also great enthusiasm. The festival's inaugural year saw roughly 20 bands ranging from folk, jazz, rock and pop genres all playing on a single stage, which lasted for two days with approximately some 10,000 visitors per day.\n\nIn 1978, festival organizers acquired the \"Canopy Scene\", an orange musical stage previously used by The Rolling Stones on a European tour. Since its beginning, the Canopy Scene and its characteristic arches have become a well-known symbol and logo representing the festival.\n\nIn the 1990s, electronic music was introduced to the festival. In 1991, \"Club Roskilde\" was held, which was an electronic music dance club held in the evenings. In 1995, electronic music artists received their own stage. In the following years, even more room for electronic music was created by the establishment of the chill-out zone and the Roskilde Lounge. Since then, artists like Fatboy Slim, The Prodigy, Basement Jaxx and Chemical Brothers appeared on the main stage.\n\nBy the 1990s, the number of tickets offered for sale was restricted and later even reduced. Due to steadily increasing popularity of the festival, the number of visitors had increased to up to 125,000. In addition, 90,000 tickets for about 25,000 volunteers, 5,000 media people and 3,000 artists were added. In order to preserve the quality of the festival, the festival organizers decided to limit the number of participants. The distance from the rearmost part of the camping area to the stages of the festival management seemed to have become unreasonable. The festival had become so popular that the festival management decided in 1994 to expand the festival area to the west. The festival site was now on divided by the railway line into two parts. In 1996 the festival had its own station, which should facilitate the arrival of visitors. In 1997, another tent called \"Roskilde Ballroom\" was built.\n\nThe bands presented at Roskilde Festival are traditionally a balanced mix of large, well-known artists, cutting-edge artists from all contemporary genres, popular crowd-pleasing acts plus local Scandinavian headliners and up-and-coming names.\n\nThe stages were until 2003 named after their colour, but as the names had not matched the actual color of the tents for a period, it was decided to rename all stages except the Orange Stage, the central and main stage. The Orange Stage is open in front of a huge field, whereas the other tents cover the whole audience, the largest of which is the Arena stage (formerly known as Green Stage), the largest tent in Europe with an official capacity of 17,000 people. The 2007 edition saw two new tents, replacing Ballroom (1997–2006) which presented mainly World music, and Metropol (2003–2006) which presented mainly Electronica. In 2010 two stages, Astoria (from 2007) and Lounge, did not return, due to a slight shift in focus towards fewer, but bigger bands. In 2014 the Odeon stage was cancelled along with the surrounding sustainable-style food outlets, and the area was replaced with pre-booked tents for festival guests that prefer not to bring their own.\n\nThe music covers such styles as rock, Hip Hop, Metal, urban, electronica and 3rd world contemporary music. It has become a tradition to let a Danish act open the Orange Stage on the first day of the festival. There are often surprising performances by classical acts, film-music, opera etc.\n\nApart from music there is always some theatre and 'lone acts' wandering around the festival site. Terrain and tents are always decorated in various ways. The current tents are:\n\nThe festival campsite covers nearly 80 hectares and access to it is included in the ticket price. It usually opens on Sunday morning prior to the festival itself. Apart from the small and separate \"Camping South\" it is divided into two areas, \"East\" and \"West\", each comprising a service center with establishments ranging from food stalls to a cinema. The campsite is further divided into 'agoras' that provide toilets, cell phone charging and luggage storage. They also host events according to each agora's theme: dance, skate, swim etc.\n\nOver the most recent years, the opening of the campsite has turned into an event of its own; large areas of the campsite each year is turned into gravel pits which has increased demand for prime spots in the campsite. Thousands of people arrive during Saturday (some even arrive several days before), to wait in the queue until 16:00 that afternoon when the gates to the campsite officially open. Due to this, the festival has introduced temporary transit areas (in both \"East\" and \"West\"), making it possible to let all these thousands of people get in at the same time. The last couple of years the fences around the transit areas has been knocked down several hours ahead of official opening by festival guests eager to get the spot for their tent.\n\nIn recent years, the fences into the camping site have been overrun earlier than the official opening. This is called \"Væltning af hegnet\" (The overturning of the fence). The festival has improved security at the fences up until the festival, but without success. Thus the camping site was overrun in 2008 and again in 2009.\n\nAs of 2018, a new gate system has been installed. This means that all guests arriving first fill 7 rows of the gate system (1000 people in each). Behind this, a large field holding all remaining guests. At 16:00 on the opening Saturday, the gates open, one row at a time at approx 90sec intervals. Once this is complete, the remaining guest in the back area are free to enter the camping area.\n\nEvery year since 1999, on the Saturday of the festival (held on a Thursday in 2015, 2016 and 2017), Roskilde Festival Radio organizes a naked run around the camp site. One male and one female winner receive a ticket for the next year's festival. In the past few years, the naked run has become so popular that the Festival Radio has been forced to arrange qualifier events for the male participants.\n\nDuring Pearl Jam's concert at the Orange Stage on 30 June 2000, a crush occurred. Nine people died, and twenty-six people were injured, three of them seriously. The dead included a 26-year-old cadet police officer from Hamburg, a 23-year-old Dutchman and three Swedes, two aged 22 and one 20. Three Danes, including a 17-year-old, also died. These nine victims died when they were crushed as the crowd rushed toward the stage. The reasons for their deaths were examined by police, public prosecutors, and subsequent civil trials, all of which determined that the causes were accidental. Many people fell down at one place; when they did not immediately get up, crowdsurfers fell into this \"hole\", and people at the bottom died of suffocation. On the day of the incident, there was also heavy rainfall, which could have contributed to the ground being slippery. By the time security guards in front of the stage got to the area of the accident after the music had been stopped, it was too late. As crowd surfing seems to have been among the precipitating factors, it was subsequently forbidden across most festivals in Europe.\n\nIn the following year, the accident led to significant changes in safety procedures in order to avoid similar situations – not just at Roskilde Festival, but also at other festivals in Europe. Before the accident in 2000, Roskilde Festival was considered one of the safest festivals. Many other festivals have smaller safety systems than Roskilde Festival and revised their procedures even further. Glastonbury Festival in England chose to cancel its festival in 2001, in part to consider lessons from Roskilde, although mainly due to an influx of 150,000 non-ticketed visitors at its own 2000 event . Each year Roskilde Festival makes an extensive health and safety assessment on the basis of which the festival is executed. The accident at the Orange Stage led to the construction of a memorial ground on the festival site containing a stone with the inscription \"How fragile we are\" (a quote from the Sting song \"Fragile\") surrounded by nine trees.\n\nPearl Jam's song \"Love Boat Captain\" references the tragedy with the line \"Lost nine friends we'll never know... two years ago today.\" When performed in concert, lead singer Eddie Vedder modifies the lyric to reflect the passage of time since the tragedy.\n\nThe 2010 festival officially opened with a memorial to those killed in 2000. Patti Smith held the short pre-concert ceremony, and she chose to open the tribute with accompanying music from Mozart. Her lead guitarist, Lenny Kaye, then read out the nine men’s names while Smith threw nine roses into the crowd.\n\nShows by bands such as Metallica, Blur, Electric Eel Shock, Coldplay, Björk, Massive Attack, The Streets, Iron Maiden, Queens of the Stone Age, Urlaub in Polen, Interpol and 150 more.\n\nThe 2004 festival featured artists such as Muse, Iggy Pop and the Stooges, Santana, Korn, Pixies, Fatboy Slim, Wu-Tang Clan and Morrissey. David Bowie was scheduled to play at Roskilde 2004 but cancelled due to heart problems, with a notice on his website. Instead, Slipknot, who were on tour in Europe, filled the spot.\n\nThree rapes were reported (and no action was taken in 2005 to prevent further occurrences).\n\nThe 2005 edition featured artists such as Audioslave, Autechre, Snoop Dogg, Black Sabbath, D-A-D, Duran Duran, Foo Fighters, Green Day, Brian Wilson, Fantômas, Kent, Sonic Youth, Interpol and more than 160 other bands and DJs. This year was also a huge contrast to the previous year on the weather front. Hot and sunny all week.\n\nWith more than 79,000 paying visitors (as well as approximately 20 000 volunteer day workers), the 2006 festival was the biggest in Europe for the year. With only one day of rain and the rest of the week being sunny, this festival also ranks as one with lucky weather conditions. Changes from the previous year included a new swimming lake – which proved to be very successful due to the warm and sunny weather – and a lounge stage called \"Bar'n\". Some of the performing artists were Bob Dylan, Immortal Technique, Roger Waters, Guns N' Roses, Tool, The Strokes, Deftones, Morrissey, Franz Ferdinand, Kanye West, Placebo, Bullet For My Valentine, Arctic Monkeys, Sigur Rós and The Streets. Danish band Magtens Korridorer opened Orange Stage.\n\nRoskilde Festival 2007 turned out to be the wettest one yet, by a rather large margin.\nApproximately 95 mm of rain fell during the course of the festival, as opposed to 44 mm in 1997, which was the wettest before 2007. Thursday was a day consisting only of rain, ending up with a lot of guests returning from the concerts to find their tents flooded. The organisers stated that it seemed that most of the people who left returned later on enjoyed a somewhat mixed weather experience Friday, and mostly dry, but a bit windy and chilly days on Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThe full programme was released on 19 April 2007 and included bands such as Muse, Queens of the Stone Age, Björk, Beastie Boys, My Chemical Romance, Arctic Monkeys, The Who, Red Hot Chili Peppers, The Killers and Tiësto. Danish band Volbeat opened Orange Stage.\n\nAlso Danish rock band Nephew played at Orange Stage on 7 July. This concert was later released as a live CD/DVD named 07.07.07 – this referring to the date of the concert. Danish rapper L.O.C featured in the concert, where they also mixed their songs with other songs, e.g. singing a line from Rammstein's Amerika in the song USA DSB, and singing Black's Wonderful Life in the beginning of Movie Klip.\n\nRoskilde Festival 2008 was dry with the exception of a 10-minute shower on Saturday 5 July and rain that started around 22:00 on Sunday 6 July. The sun shone for the rest of the festival.\n\nThe full programme was released on 16 April 2008 and included Jay Z, The Chemical Brothers, Band of Horses, Duffy, Kings of Leon, Neil Young, Radiohead, Grinderman, My Bloody Valentine, Gnarls Barkley, Girl Talk, The Dillinger Escape Plan, The Streets, Judas Priest, Slayer, Tina Dickow, and The Hellacopters.\n\nRoskilde Festival 2009 was the hottest in 33 years according to the festival newspaper Orange Press. The festival was hit by a major cancellation, when rapper Lil Wayne had to cancel due to sickness. He was replaced by Gogol Bordello who played the only 6 starred concert at the festival. Orange stage was opened by Swedish rapper Petter, who had prominent visitors on stage such as Dee Pee from Rockers by Choice and L.O.C, who was on Orange stage for the third year running (featuring on Nephew's Hospital in 2007, and his own concert in 2008). Petter has been called a failure for this concert, because he wasn't able to get a full crowd, and the opening of Orange has to be big.\nNine Inch Nails played at Orange Stage Friday night at 01.00am – 03.00am and gave what several Danish newspapers called \"the best concert of Roskilde '09\". Nine Inch Nails were on \"Wave Goodbye\"-tour and will most likely never visit Denmark again.\nRoskilde '09 also meant the anticipated return of the Danish hip-hop group Malk de Koijn, who played a 2-hour concert the night between Saturday and Sunday at Arena, and a big party-atmosphere at Orange Stage Thursday night, when Trentemøller and prominent guests made all of the crowd dance as if they were clubbing.\nDanish rapper Jooks played as an up-and-coming act at Pavilion Junior Wednesday in the warm up days, and due to him having a major hit after he was booked (Hun vil ha' en rapper), the tent was packed to the limit in a concert, who could easily have filled one of the bigger stages.\n\nOther big names were: Kanye West, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Oasis, Coldplay, Faith No More, The Mars Volta, Volbeat, Slipknot, Lily Allen and Pet Shop Boys.\n\nThe weather at 2010 festival was sunny all days of the event.\n\nThe 2011 had nice weather the first few days, but on Thursday-Friday there was massive rain.\nRoskilde Festival faced a sad incident when a young woman fell from the Tuborg tower to her death.\nThe tickets were sold out, with a projected profit of around 10 million Kr.\nThe opening of Orange Stage was done by Danish Veto, and was closed by Kings of Leon.\n\nThe 2013 festival featured acts such as Metallica, Sigur Rós, Volbeat, Kvelertak, Goat, Queens of the Stone Age, C2C, Daedelus, Slipknot, Disclosure, Chase and Status, Baauer, Holy Other, Jam City, Vatican Shadow and When Saints Go Machine and Rihanna.\n\nThe 2017 festival featured acts such as Foo Fighters, Arcade Fire, The Weeknd, The xx, Ice Cube, Justice, Moderat, Solange and Trentemøller.\n\nThe 2018 festival featured acts such as Joey Badass, Black Star, David Byrne, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Descendents, Eminem, Fever Ray, First Aid Kit, Fleet Foxes, Four Tet, Ben Frost, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Gorillaz, Interpol, C.V. Jørgensen, Khalid, Dua Lipa, Chelsea Manning, Bruno Mars, Massive Attack, Mogwai, Pablo Moses, My Bloody Valentine, Nephew, Nine Inch Nails, Odesza, Anderson Paak & The Free Nationals, Mike Skinner, St. Vincent, Vince Staples, Stone Sour, Stormzy, The Minds of 99, Alex Vargas and When Saints Go Machine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1689025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689025", "title": "Shigmo", "text": "Shigmo\n\nShigmo ( ) or Shishirotsava is a spring festival celebrated in the Indian state of Goa, where it is one of the major festivals of the Hindu community. It is also celebrated by Konkani diaspora and Indian festival of Holi is part of it.\nThe Konkani word \"Śigmō\" comes from the Prakrit word \"Suggimaho\" and the Sanskrit \"Sugrishmaka\".\n\nIn recent years the state government has supported public Shigmo parades consisting of traditional folk and street dancers and elaborately built floats depicting scenes from regional mythology and religious scenes. Meanwhile, Shigmo festivals also continue in various rural parts of Goa, spanning over a fortnight, with different days earmarked for celebrations in different areas. This festival is celebrated around March each year. It is linked to the Hindu lunar calendar, hence its date according to the Gregorian calendar varies.\n\nThere are two variants of Shigmo festival: \"Dhakto Shigmo\" (\"small Shigmo\") and \"Vhadlo Shigmo\" (\"big Shigmo\"). \"Dhakto Shigmo\" is generally celebrated by farmers, the labour class and the rural population, while \"Vhadlo Shigmo\" is of greater consequence and is celebrated by everyone together.\n\"Dhakto Shigmo\" begins some five days before the full-moon day of the Indian lunar month of Phalguna and ends on the full-moon day in the \"Old Conquests\" areas of Goa (the areas that were under Portuguese colonial rule for a longer period of time, starting from the sixteenth century). On the other hand, \"Vhadlo Shigmo\" is mostly celebrated in the \"New Conquests\" areas, beginning on the full-moon day of Phalguna and continuing for five days.\n\"Naman\" are songs sung in chorus during the festival, when villagers assemble at a fixed place. \"Jot\" is another kind of song. Dances include \"Talgadi\", \"Hanpet\", Lamp Dance and \"Gopha\". \"Dhol\" and \"Taso\" are drums, some of which can be huge, which people carry from door to door, dancing to their sound. Money is placed in a plate carried by the performers, in response to which they sing a song called the \"Tali\", wishing the donor well. On the last day of the festival, it is believed that a spirit known as the \"Gade padap\" enters the dancers. \"Mand davarap\" refers to a collective bath taken after the festival comes to an end.\n\n\"Dhakto Shigmo\" can be considered mainly as a festival of folk songs and folk dances, while \"Vhadlo Shigmo\" is considered a festival performed in the village temple. It is celebrated in different temples on different dates around the same period. On the first day, the village deity is bathed and dressed in saffron robes. After the offering of food, a feast is held. Shigmo celebrated in the temples of Jambavali, Phatarpya, Kansarpal and Dhargale are very famous in Goa and the neighboring states and attract a large number of devotees and tourists.\n\n"}
{"id": "50932640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50932640", "title": "Smart Lander for Investigating Moon", "text": "Smart Lander for Investigating Moon\n\nSmart Lander for Investigating Moon (SLIM) is a lunar lander being developed by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). The lander will demonstrate precision landing technology. As of 2017, the lander is planned to be launched in 2021.\n\nSLIM is Japan's first major lunar surface mission, and will demonstrate precise, pinpoint lunar landing. During its descent to the Moon, the lander will recognize lunar craters by applying technology from facial recognition systems, and determine its current location from utilizing observation data collected by the SELENE (Kaguya) lunar orbiter mission. SLIM aims to soft land with an error range of . In comparison, the error range of the Apollo 11 Eagle lunar module was an elliptic which was wide in downrange and wide in crossrange. According to Yoshifumi Inatani, deputy director general of the JAXA Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (ISAS), by succeeding in this extremely precise landing, it will lead to enhancing the quality of space exploration.\n\nSLIM is planned to be launched together with the XRISM space telescope, and is to land near the Marius Hills Hole, a lunar lava tube entrance discovered by Kaguya. The expected cost for developing this project is 18 billion yen.\n\nThe SLIM team assessed in the past the inclusion of a small rover in this mission. A preliminary concept considered a rover with two inflatable wheels that would enter —or drop into— the lava tube while deploying miniature communication relay devices along the traverse. Other concepts suggested developing a miniature rover without wheels but able to \"hop\" along. \n\nThe proposal which later came to be known as SLIM existed as early as back in 2005, as the . On 27 December 2013, ISAS called for proposals for its next \"Competitively-Chosen Medium-Sized Focused Mission\", and SLIM was among the seven proposals submitted. In June 2014, SLIM passed the semi-final selection along with the DESTINY technology demonstration mission, and in February 2015 SLIM was ultimately selected. From April 2016, SLIM gained project status within JAXA. In May 2016, Mitsubishi Electric (MELCO) was reportedly awarded the contract for building the spacecraft. SLIM is scheduled to be the second Japanese lunar lander to operate from the Moon's surface; on 27 May 2016 NASA announced that the OMOTENASHI (Outstanding MOon exploration TEchnologies demonstrated by NAno Semi-Hard Impactor) CubeSat lander jointly developed by JAXA and the University of Tokyo will be launched as a secondary payload on Space Launch System Exploration Mission 1. OMOTENASHI will deploy a mini lunar lander weighing 1 kg.\n\nIn 2017, because of funding difficulties arising from XARM(XRISM)'s development cost, SLIM's launch was switched from a dedicated Epsilon flight to a rideshare H-IIA flight. The resulting cost savings will be transferred to develop other satellites that are behind schedule due to XARM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4433215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433215", "title": "Submarine depth ratings", "text": "Submarine depth ratings\n\nDepth ratings are primary design parameters and measures of a submarine's ability to operate underwater. The depths to which submarines can dive are limited by the strengths of their hulls.\n\nHuman occupants of a submarine would suffer physiological problems if the air pressure inside were simply allowed to be equal to the water pressure outside the hull (for example, oxygen becomes toxic at high pressures). So, when the inside air is kept at normal atmospheric pressure, the hull must be able to withstand the forces created by the outside water pressure being greater than the inside air pressure. The outside water pressure increases with depth and so the stresses on the hull also increase with depth. Each 10 metres (33 feet) of depth puts another atmosphere (1 bar, 14.7 psi, 101 kPa) of pressure on the hull, so at 300 \nmetres (1,000 feet), the hull is withstanding thirty atmospheres (30 bar, 441 psi, 3,000 kPa) of water pressure.\n\nDesign depth is the nominal depth listed in the submarine's specifications. From it the designers calculate the thickness of the hull metal, the boat's displacement, and many other related factors. Since the designers incorporate margins of error in their calculations, crush depth of an actual vessel should be slightly deeper than its design depth.\n\nTest depth is the maximum depth at which a submarine is permitted to operate under normal peacetime circumstances, and is tested during sea trials. The test depth is set at two-thirds of the design depth for United States Navy submarines, while the Royal Navy sets test depth at 4/7 the design depth, and the German Navy sets it at exactly one-half of design depth.\n\nThe maximum operating depth (popularly called the never-exceed depth) is the maximum depth at which a submarine is allowed to operate under \"any\" (\"e.g.\" battle) conditions.\n\nCrush depth, officially called collapse depth, is the submerged depth at which a submarine's hull is expected to collapse due to pressure. This is normally calculated. However, it is not always accurate. Submarines from many nations in World War II reported being forced through crush depth, due to flooding or mechanical failure, only to have the water pumped out, or the failure repaired, and succeed in surfacing again. These reports are not necessarily verifiable, and popular misunderstanding of the difference between test depth and collapse depth can confuse the discussion. World War II German U-boats generally had collapse depths in the range of 200 to 280 metres (660 to 920 feet).\n\n"}
{"id": "25648285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25648285", "title": "The Burning Season (1994 film)", "text": "The Burning Season (1994 film)\n\nChico Mendes was a Brazilian rubber tapper, unionist and environmental activist who was murdered in 1988 by ranchers opposed to his activism. The movie opens in 1951 with a young Chico Mendes witnessing his father's interaction with corrupt ranchers who are exploiting peasants for their work. The bulk of the film then takes place between 1983 and 1988, showing Mendes' activism to preserve the Amazon rainforest, to his murder in a drive-by shooting by a disgruntled rancher.\n\n\nAmerican Cinema Editors\nCasting Society of America\n\nEmmy Awards \n\nGolden Globe Awards\n\nScreen Actors Guild Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "47397222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47397222", "title": "Tor Carding Forum", "text": "Tor Carding Forum\n\nThe Tor Carding Forum (TCF) was a Tor-based forum specializing in the trade of stolen credit card details, identity theft and currency counterfeiting. The site was founded by an individual known as 'Verto' who also founded the now defunct Evolution darknet market.\n\nThe site required $50 for registration.\n\nA 2013 investigation into counterfeit banknotes in Pittsburgh led to a source of Ugandan fakes being identified as having been purchased via the Tor Carding Forums. By December 2014 Ryan Andrew Gustafson a.k.a. \"Jack Farrel\" and \"Willy Clock\", a US citizen living in Uganda was arrested for large scale sale of counterfeit United States currency by the U.S. Secret Service which was being sold through the Tor Carding Forums as well as other crime forums.\n\nIn December 2014 the site closed following a hack, directing users to Evolution's forums.\n\nIn June 2015 a dark web researcher identified the clearnet IP address of a similar hidden service branded 'The Tor Carding Forum V2' which was subsequently shut down.\n"}
{"id": "315871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315871", "title": "Vagabond (manga)", "text": "Vagabond (manga)\n\nIt has been serialized in \"Weekly Morning\" magazine since 1998, with the chapters collected into 37 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Kodansha as of July 2014. Viz Media licensed the series for English release in North America and has published 37 volumes as of April 2015. \"Vagabond\" won a 2000 Kodansha Manga Award and the 2002 Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize, and has sold more than 82 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling manga series.\n\nGrowing up in the late 16th century Sengoku era Japan, Shinmen Takezō is shunned by the local villagers as a devil child due to his wild and violent nature. Running away from home with a fellow boy at age 17, Takezo joins the Toyotomi army to fight the Tokugawa clan at the Battle of Sekigahara. However, the Tokugawa win a crushing victory, leading to nearly three hundred years of Shogunate rule. Takezo and his friend manage to survive the battle and afterwards swear to do great things with their lives. However, after their paths separate, Takezo becomes a wanted criminal and must change his name and his nature in order to escape an ignoble death.\n\n\n\n\nBefore Takezo becomes Miyamoto, we see him as a boy from Miyamoto village, Mimasaka Province, who can draw the fear out of anybody and lives on his wits, thus, he has to live in the mountains cut off from all. At the age of 17, he and Matahachi leave for war but Takezo gets a reputation as someone who will quickly kill anyone who crosses him. This gets Takezo into big trouble, as hunters, even from his village, come to try and kill him. Eventually, the monk Takuan and Miyamoto's childhood friend Otsu help to capture Takezo, who is subsequently hung from a tree for several days without food or water. During this time, Tsujikaze Kohei, the younger brother of a bandit that Takezo killed, comes to claim his revenge on Takezo (but only because Kohei wanted to kill his brother first). Takuan scares him away.\n\nAt the end of the arc, Takuan takes Takezo out to a remote area surrounding the village and talks to him. At the end of the fifth volume, we learn that Takezo has for the moment shed his rage and become a more graceful person - Miyamoto Musashi.\n\n\nMiyamoto Musashi (now 21-year-old) travels to Kyōto to look for strong fighters to challenge. He immediately heads to the Yoshioka school of sword fighting, where his father's name was well known. Before he gets there, he unknowingly encounters the current leader of the school, Yoshioka Seijurō, cavorting with the many geisha in the town. After a few words, Seijurō says \"You're dead,\" and Musashi looks down in surprise and horror to see that Seijurō's sword was at his neck.\n\nUndaunted, he heads for the school and challenges the owner, but first he is forced to face many of those who train there, after some of the lower class members insult him. Musashi kills five members of higher rank, until finally Yoshioka Denshichirō, the more serious of the two sons of Yoshioka Kempo, decides to kill Musashi himself. In a very dramatic battle, one that Seijurō intervenes in once to give Musashi the scar on his forehead, Musashi also manages to dislocate Denshichirō's shoulder, but the fight does not end until Hon'iden Matahachi accidentally sets the school building on fire, after drinking much of the sake stored in the basement, bemoaning the \"inevitable\" death of his newfound hero who stood up to the Yoshioka. Denshichirō then tells Musashi to come back stronger within a year for a rematch.\n\nMusashi escapes with his life and, once Matahachi realizes that Takezo/Musashi was the one who challenged the school, Matahachi decides to put his life back together. This became the beginning of an inferiority complex and would-be rivalry that would influence his life.\n\n\nTakuan encourages Musashi to be more serious about training and not throw away his life so easily, but Musashi still has a lot to learn. He splits up with Takuan and goes to visit the Hōzōin temple for its famous spear technique. Gion Toji, the Yoshioka school's assassin who seeks to kill Musashi, arrives at the temple first. He cuts both hands off a monk who challenges him and proclaims that he will come back everyday and do the same to others until he finds Musashi, throwing the temple into turmoil and unease.\n\nMusashi appears at the temple the next day and picks a fight with Agon, one of the higher-level monks. Musashi seeks In'ei, the old and legendary master of the school, whom he does not know has retired. Agon recognizes that this must be Musashi and, seeking both to end the turmoil that Toji has caused and defend Hōzōin's name, he fights Musashi. At one point, Musashi finds himself without a sword but he manages to end the fight by breaking Agon's nose.\n\nGion Toji then challenges Musashi, but before they can begin, Inshun, the new master of the school and a child prodigy at the spear, breaks up the fight, wanting to battle Musashi himself. Toji backs off and Musashi has an all-out battle with Inshun. Musashi becomes tired and distraught and flees from Inshun badly beaten. He winds up later in the care of In'ei, the same monk and spearmaster he had journeyed to Hōzōin to fight. The elderly In'ei feels that while Inshun, his greatest student, has brilliantly mastered the physical art of spear fighting, he has not mastered himself and his soul. He believes Inshun needs a powerful rival to do this and trains Musashi so that he can be that rival.\n\nIn the end, Musashi gets a second battle with Inshun, with only In'ei and Agon as witnesses. Having learned a lot from his training about himself and his demons, Musashi overpowers Inshun's spirit. He manages to dodge Inshun's attack and knocks him down with a strike to the head from his own self-carved sword; after this, he reverts to his savage self and starts beating the ground and the fallen Inshun with his sword repeatedly. Both Musashi and Inshun are treated for any injuries at the Hōzōin Temple, after which Musashi was issued finer robes and a pair of swords. They leave with the vow of trying not to kill each other the next time they meet.\n\n\nMatahachi is making a living by posing as Sasaki Kojirō, whose certification in \"Chujō-ryu\" swordsmanship he took from the mortally wounded Kusanagi Tenki. Matahachi is asked for a match by Kai Shojiro, a wandering swordsman with thirty-five years of experience. Matahachi grants Shojiro this request, but upon deciding Shojiro is a swordsman capable of killing him in combat, distracts him and flees. Matahachi runs into his mother and uncle Gon at a marketplace and states that Sasaki Kojirō is a pseudonym he uses instead of his actual name, as he feels he has shamed his family by living with a prostitute and inadvertently setting the Yoshioka temple on fire. Granny Hon'iden states that they are to look for Musashi and Otsu, whom she states \"ran off together\", though she is completely unaware that the two have not been with each other since they ran away from the village. This would further fuel Matahachi's inferiority complex, since he was coerced by Okō into writing a letter of renouncement to Otsu.\n\nMeanwhile, Musashi, with Jotarō in tow, proceeds to travel to the residence of Yagyū Sekishūsai, a swordsman of great renown. Yagyū Sekishūsai is delighted to receive news that his grandson, Hyogonosuke, is returning to his temple. Yoshioka Denshichirō is constantly requesting a duel with Sekishūsai, but is refused an audience each time. By chance meeting, Musashi meets Hyogonosuke and Jotarō meets Otsu. Musashi happens upon a peony cut by Sekishūsai and requests an audience with the person who cut the peony. At the hall of the Yagyū, Musashi attempts to antagonize the members into fighting him, hoping that by besting them he will be granted audience to Sekishūsai, however his efforts prove fruitless, as the disciples are used to such methods. Jotarō, however, kills the Yagyū pet dog, after it attacks him. The group attempts to physically punish Jotarō, but Musashi claims that he must take the punishment for his disciple and uses this as an excuse to engage in battle with the Yagyū senior disciples. Jotarō runs to find Otsu, but falls into a pit. After a long and exhaustive bout with the senior disciples, Musashi eventually loses them in a bamboo forest and sneaks into Sekishūsai's cottage after a brief, but emotional reunion with Otsu. Musashi is shocked to discover that Sekishūsai is now an old, bedridden man, but nonetheless has an impacting discussion over the nature of being the greatest swordsman and learns one of his most valuable lessons: \"invincible is just a word.\" Musashi leaves Jotarō in the care of the Yagyū and leaves alone.\n\n\nThe arc begins with Matahachi fleeing from his uncle Gon and mother, after the former questions the legitimacy of his claim to be Sasaki Kojirō. Matahachi runs into the ronin Kai Shojiro, who has since realized Matahachi an imposter and thus harbors murderous intent. While fleeing, Matahachi finds himself on the mountain trail leading to Shishido Baiken, a figure renowned for his chain and sickle technique, and encounters a mysterious young girl armed with a chain and sickle. The ronin and his companion eventually catch up to the fleeing Matahachi, but Gon arrives in time to protect him. Gon is killed in the ensuing struggle, while Matahachi continues to flee. The ronin eventually sees the mysterious girl and mentions she has a weapon similar to Shishido Baiken, which causes him to drop his pursuit of Matahachi and instead follow her. Shishido Baiken, however, is revealed to be none other than Tsujikaze Kōhei. Matahachi stumbles upon his house to see him smashing Shojiro's skull open. As he is discovered hiding, Baiken makes him bury the ronin and the bodies of two others, including his uncle Gon. As he painfully reminisces about his uncle, Matahachi spies Musashi arriving from afar and quickly runs away, praising Musashi for how strong he appears to have become.\n\nMusashi, starving, happens upon a kindly hermit's hut, where he is fed and informed that Shishido Baiken is dead. The hermit recants that Baiken was nothing more than a despicable bandit leader who often gave her trouble and that respectable swordsmen only began seeking him after his death. Baiken and the girl spar with their chains and sickles, after which, as Baiken sleeps, the girl playfully examines Baiken's face to reveal to the reader a massive facial scar that had previously been obscured by Baiken's hair. Musashi eventually enters Baiken's hut, leading to shocked reactions from both Musashi and Tsujikaze. The girl, now identified as Rindo, attacks Musashi, but Baiken tells her that she should not meddle in their affairs. Rindo, nonplussed, climbs a tree to observe the combat, commenting that Musashi is different from the other swordsmen that have appeared in the past.\n\nAt the start of the match, Baiken states that while he does not wish to kill Musashi, he can only use his chain and sickle with the intent to kill. Musashi is initially intimidated by Baiken's technique and asks about his master. Baiken responds that Rindo is his master. The origin of the current incarnation of Baiken is then shown. After his spat with Musashi four years ago, Tsujikaze fell into a deep depression and began \"looking for a place to die\". During that time, he encountered and slew Baiken and his gang. Rindo initially attacked Tsujikaze, however she relented and passed out after seeing his grisly scar, after which they became fast friends. Back in the current battle between \"Baiken\" and Musashi, Baiken manages to wrap his chain around Musashi's neck. He states that Musashi's life is ultimately meaningless in the grand scheme of things. After Musashi frees himself, Baiken attempts an under-handed tactic to attack a distracted Musashi.\n\n\"Baiken\" then begins to display a twisted grin, displaying that he has reverted to his former, blood-thirsty \"Tsujikaze\" persona, which saddens Rindo. Musashi dispatches him, severing all of Tsujikaze's fingers on his left hand save his thumb and leaving a deep wound through his shoulder. Tsujikaze pleads Musashi to help treat his wound, saying he wishes to escape the \"cycle of death\". Musashi seems reluctant at first, but eventually relents and aides him. While recuperating, Tsujikaze remarks that his pride was destroyed by someone who was \"further along the path of death\" than he, a man called Sasaki Kojirō. It is implied Kojirō is the one who gave Tsujikaze his scar.\n\nDuring the epilogue, Tsujikaze's past is further delved into, revealing how he came to adopt his macabre outlook on life and the events leading up to his encounter with Musashi in the first arc.\n\n\nThis arc follows the upbringing of his arch-rival, Sasaki Kojirō. It begins in the year 1583 CE, with a letter from Sasaki Sukeyasu to his former teacher, Kanemaki Jisai, who has retired and is living as a hermit in a small coastal village, to please take care of his only son Sasaki Kojirō. Soon afterwards, Jisai spots the baby on a boat in the middle of a storm offshore. He rescues Kojirō and raises him, not knowing that his adoptive son is in fact, deaf.\n\nKojirō grows into a healthy young boy, but is distanced from the villagers because of his deafness and his association with Jisai, who is seen as a crazy old man and fraud, since he advertised himself as a teacher of \"Chujō-ryu\" swordsmanship. This changes when Kojirō befriends Kusanagi Tenki, the local bully who longs to be a great swordsman and achieve the title of \"Invincible Under the Sun\". Together they plot to take down Fudo, a powerful swordsman who terrorizes the village by abducting girls just as they hit puberty. The assault does not go well, Tenki being scarred for life and Kojirō realizing his bloodlust in battle. He cut off Fudo's right hand but it was Jisai who saves the village and the boys' lives when he takes Fudo down with one stroke.\n\nTime passes and Kojirō becomes a powerful teenager longing to be taught by Jisai, who refuses, haunted by how Kojirō whimsically massacred Fudo's body after he was already dead. When Itō Ittōsai, an old pupil of Jisai and a renowned swordsman, strolls into town, he disrupts the balance between Jisai and Kojirō. Itō sees that Kojirō is a powerful swordsman, a \"real tiger\", like Itō and Jisai. He instigates a duel between wandering swordsmen including Ueda Ryōhei and Denshichirō of the Yoshioka. Kojirō discovers them, and he and Denshichirō duel. Denshichirō discovers that though Kojirō is deaf, he speaks volumes through battle. The duel ends with both suffering serious injuries, and Denshichirō longing to meet Kojirō again.\n\nSoon afterwards, Kojirō leaves the village and travels with Ittōsai, Jisai having finally accepted his adoptive son's future as a swordsman and entrusting Kojirō to Ittosai's care. Jisai sends Tenki after Kojirō along with money and a certificate of swordsmanship, which Matahachi would ultimately acquire. Kojirō and Ittōsai stumble upon Muso Gonnosuke, but Gonnosuke is not prepared for \"the stage\", as Ittōsai calls it, and Kojirō quickly defeats him. He takes his defeat in stride and travels with them as they discover the battlefield of Sekigahara, which has just ended. Ittōsai challenges the remaining Tokugawa soldiers and a young Takezo also enters the fray, hoping to kill a general. This is the in-universe chronological first encounter between Kojirō and the future Musashi. When the battle is over, Ittōsai and Gonnosuke are separated from Kojirō. Ittōsai states that once Kojirō has killed about one hundred men he will have acquired his survival instinct. If Kojirō can survive this, Ittōsai says, then the next time they meet will be as opponents.\n\n\nThe story focuses on Miyamoto Musashi as he returns to Kyōto in 1604 (the 9th year of the Keichō era) to fulfill his promise for a rematch with the Yoshioka brothers.\n\nMusashi is unexpectedly met with a public bulletin of a challenge from Yoshioka Denshichirō, which he accepts. As Musashi practices and is about to rest in Rendaiji Field, Yoshioka Seijurō attempts to kill him. Musashi cuts him down, but the Yoshioka clan is devastated by this. Seijurō attacked Musashi in secret without informing anyone else and so the clan sees the killing of Seijurō as unforgivable. Musashi encounters Hon'ami Koetsu, a renowned sword sharpener, who offers Musashi a room to stay in while the Kempo clan seek him out. While travelling, Musashi has a tense encounter with the heads of the Kempo, but Denshichirō adamantly forbids any foul-play against Musashi. Gion Toji reappears, looking noticeably worse for wear (he seems to symbolize Musashi had he remained so angry). Toji has been away from the Yoshioka dojo during his search for Musashi and, in outrage at Denshichirō's orders, attacks Musashi blindly only to be cut down with a single slash to the neck.\n\nUeda, seriously worried over the possibility of his master's death, hatches a scheme to solicit Sasaki Kojirō to fight Denshichirō's battle instead. Matahachi encounters the real Sasaki Kojirō as he travels through a field. The Kempo swordsmen invite Kojirō back to their dojo, but the encounter turns bloody after one member attacks him. Matahachi then takes Kojirō to the Yoshioka dojo, posing as his interpreter. The men are outraged that someone who has killed one of their own is invited as an honored guest, but Ueda stifles the furor. Matahachi flees after he discovers the plot to have Kojirō fight Musashi. When Ueda pleads to Denshichirō to give his consent to the plan, Denshichirō excommunicates Ueda.\n\nKojirō wanders away from the Yoshioka dojo out of boredom and returns to the place he was staying, which is the same place Musashi is staying at. Musashi spies Kojirō attempting to cut through Musashi's snowman's head with a stick, but is frustrated that he cannot. The two engage in a playful stick fight with thin tree branches in which Musashi \"wins\", however, the fight takes a serious tone when Kojirō then eagerly draws his sword in the hopes of a real fight. They are cut short by Hon'ami's mother, who calls the two men in for dinner. Musashi and Kojirō develop a bizarre camaraderie, in which Musashi seems to revere Kojirō more than any other swordsman he has met to date. Musashi leaves the next day to duel with Denshichirō and sees that Kojirō is now able to completely cut through his snowman's head.\n\nBefore the duel with Denshichirō begins, Ueda draws a matchlock pistol on Musashi, who dispatches his weapon. Ueda states that if Musashi kills Denshichirō then the Yoshioka clan will become solely fixated on killing him. Musashi battles Denshichirō regardless. The duel seems one-sided, as Musashi sees no need to draw his blade for the majority of the fight. Musashi eventually does draw his blade and cleaves through Denshichirō's arm with one stroke. Denshichirō, now solely intent on killing Musashi with no regard for his own safety, grasps Musashi, who unceremoniously guts him with a swift stroke of Denshichirō's wakizashi. Denshichirō solemnly states that he is glad to have had Musashi as his final opponent and perishes. Ueda Ryōhei, now head of the Yoshioka clan and hell-bent on vengeance, plans to ambush Musashi with all seventy Yoshioka members when Musashi attempts to leave Kyoto.\n\nMusashi and Matahachi run into each other and have a tearful reunion. The meeting turns ugly when Matahachi's jealousy of Musashi's skill crops up, causing a drunken Matahachi to accuse Musashi of running off with Otsu. Musashi, appalled at the notion, punches Matahachi in the face and renounces his friendship. Musashi begins to meditate within a massive pine tree at Ichijōji. As he reflects on his isolation from the world, he overhears Ueda and the rest of the heads of the Yoshioka plot to ambush him. Musashi deduces that he will certainly die from such an attack and opts to strike the small number of the heads of the Yoshioka beneath the tree. Losing his composure, Musashi antagonizes Ueda, who then makes light of the fact that Musashi would become so angry at his own imminent death but feel nothing for killing Denshichirō and his brother. Ueda takes advantage of this emotional distraction to successfully cut Musashi, but the battle is cut short by Takuan, who houses Musashi for the night. During his stay, Musashi states he will flee before the fight the next day and that he is unaffected by the reaction a \"cowardly\" retreat would have with other people.\n\nMid-flight, however, Musashi begins to have second thoughts and returns for reasons unknown even to him. He spies the Yoshioka amassing under the same great pine as where Musashi had his confrontation with Ueda Ryōhei. Musashi takes his early arrival to his advantage and descends upon the Yoshioka swiftly and silently, successfully carving a swath through their ranks to Ueda. Musashi, critically wounded and exhausted, lurches his way out of Kyōto and runs into Akemi, the girl with whom he lived briefly. Akemi states that Musashi was foolish for abandoning his life with her, attempts to stab him, says she is Seijurō's woman, then proceeds to leap into a nearby river before a stunned Musashi.\n\n\nThe arc begins an unspecified time after the first Kojirō arc, with Kojirō in the den of a kindly prostitute and her pet frog; Gonnosuke and Ittosai are noticeably absent. The prostitute is unusually philanthropic; she refuses money if her clientele are nice to her. The prostitute goes outside after making love to Kojirō to see Tsujikaze Kōhei (scar absent). Tsujikaze and the prostitute had previously been together and he is returning after his imprisonment, downward spiral into severe depression and subsequent release. He pierces her right eye with his sword and stomps on her pet frog, killing it. Kojirō, upon seeing this, retrieves his sword and confronts Tsujikaze. Tsujikaze, not taking Kojirō seriously, states that Kojirō is merely wasting time until his death. Tsujikaze attempts to attack him, but Kojirō dodges, shoves Kōhei back then slices his face, delivering the scar seen in the Baiken arc.\n\nAfter Musashi's great fight, he is taken care of by Takuan and finally encounters Jotarō, Matahachi (who has renounced his past resentment) and Otsu. While he is recovering from his injuries, Matahachi resigns himself to Otsu loving Musashi over himself, and separately tells both of them to have a relationship. When he awakens, it is revealed that Musashi cannot walk because of the severe wound in his right calf (caused by Ueda Ryōhei's final slash) and, according to \"one of the two best physicians in Kyōto\", his fighting days are over. Soldiers then come to arrest Musashi for killing the seventy warriors of the Yoshioka.\n\nWhen next seen, he is imprisoned at Nijō Castle, although, according to the \"shoshidai\" of Kyōto in a conversation with Koetsu, it is more of a protective custody, since his nationwide fame from defeating the Yoshioka now makes him the target of possible revenge, challenges from fighters seeking fame and invitations to serve as a samurai. As such, Musashi will not face beheading or seppuku. However, the possible end of his fighting career causes distress for him, Jotarō and Otsu. Musashi takes up a journey to visit a cave back in his hometown where he had promised a skeleton that he would return if he was stronger. Just as he reached it, Itō Ittōsai challenges him to a duel. Ittōsai remembers Musashi from fighting alongside him for a brief moment with Kojirō and Gonnosuke but Musashi does not recall anything, only that Ittōsai is famous for his fighting style. When the fight seemed over, Ittōsai revealed his right hand with only his pinky and ring finger still on his hand, he claims that Kojirō is stronger and recalls the time when he had left Kojirō for dead with vengeful peasants.\n\nIn the meantime, Matahachi's mother had died and the time shifts towards the future when an old Matahachi is telling a group of villagers about Musashi's, Kojirō's and his story.\n\nTakehiko Inoue started \"Vagabond\" having wondered what the character was like when he read \"Musashi\". Having come off of drawing a sports manga, he wanted to create a series about more basic concepts, such as \"life and death, the human condition, etc.\" Rather than portray Musashi's later life in his \"enlightened state\", which has been written about often, the author chose to depict the lesser known \"young man reaching that point of enlightenment when he comes from a place of being so like an animal.\" In 2009, he stated that he made his weekly deadline thanks to only having to draw the people, with his five assistants drawing the backgrounds.\n\nIn April 2009, Inoue told \"Nishinippon Shimbun\" that he suspected \"Vagabond\" would be ending \"within one or two years.\" Claiming that he did not know how it would end, but that it had entered its final stages. In January 2010, he confirmed it would be ending within the year. However, in September during a hiatus due to health concerns, Inoue announced that the ending had been delayed until 2011. Inoue posted an update on his website in December 2010, stating that \"Vagabond\" would not return until he regained \"enthusiasm\" for the series.\n\nAfter eighteen-months, \"Vagabond\" returned to \"Weekly Morning\" as a monthly series in March 2012. The manga went on what was supposed to be a four-month hiatus in February 2014, with the reason stated being for Inoue to work on research. However, it was not until January 2015 that the series resumed.\n\nWritten and illustrated by Takehiko Inoue, \"Vagabond\" is based on Eiji Yoshikawa's 1935 novel \"Musashi\" and has been serialized in \"Weekly Morning\" since 1998. He began the series \"Real\" in \"Weekly Young Jump\" in 2001, and currently creates it alongside \"Vagabond\". As of July 2014, the \"Vagabond\" chapters have been collected into 37 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Kodansha.\n\nViz Media began releasing \"Vagabond\" in English in North America in 2002. Their release retains the color pages from the series' magazine run, and the company has published 37 volumes as of April 21, 2015. Viz's release is distributed in Australasia by Madman Entertainment. In 2008, Viz began re-releasing the series in a format that collects three of the volumes into one.\n\nTwo art books for the series were released on October 23, 2006; \"Water\" containing the manga's colored art and new pieces, and containing the black and white art as well as early rough sketches. Both were published in North America by Viz on September 16, 2008.\n\n\"Vagabond\" won the Grand Prize for manga at the 2000 Japan Media Arts Festival. The following is an excerpt from the speech congratulating Takehiko Inoue: \"From Toyotomi to Tokugawa. Musashi Miyamoto grew up amidst the turn of two great eras. Mr. Inoue has taken the powerful Musashi who was sometimes called a 'beast' and drawn him as a vagabond. The artist brags about boldly challenging the national literary work of Eiji Yoshikawa, even so, the sense of speed that he creates is impressive. I send my applause to the artist for creating a new image of Musashi.\" The same year, the series won the 24th Kodansha Manga Award in the general category. \"Vagabond\" also received the Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize in 2002, and the North American version earned Inoue a nomination for the 2003 Eisner Award in the Best Writer/Artist category. \"Vagabond\" has sold 82 million copies worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "11523787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11523787", "title": "Vandalic War", "text": "Vandalic War\n\nThe Vandalic or Vandal War (, \"Vandēlikòs Pólemos\") was a conflict fought in North Africa (largely in modern Tunisia) between the forces of the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire and the Vandalic Kingdom of Carthage, in 533–534. It was the first of Justinian I's wars of reconquest of the lost Western Roman Empire.\n\nThe Vandals had occupied Roman North Africa in the early 5th century, and established an independent kingdom there. Under their first king, Geiseric, the formidable Vandal navy carried out pirate attacks across the Mediterranean, sacked Rome and defeated a massive Roman invasion in 468. After Geiseric's death, relations with the surviving Eastern Roman Empire normalized, although tensions flared up occasionally due to the Vandals' militant adherence to Arianism and their persecution of the Chalcedonian native population. In 530, a palace coup in Carthage overthrew the pro-Roman Hilderic and replaced him with his cousin Gelimer. The Eastern Roman emperor Justinian took this as a pretext to interfere in Vandal affairs, and after he secured his eastern frontier with Sassanid Persia in 532, he began preparing an expedition under general Belisarius, whose secretary Procopius wrote the main historical narrative of the war. Justinian took advantage of, or even instigated, rebellions in the remote Vandal provinces of Sardinia and Tripolitania. These not only distracted Gelimer from the Emperor's preparations, but also weakened Vandal defences through the dispatch of the bulk of the Vandal navy and a large portion of their army under Gelimer's brother Tzazon to Sardinia.\n\nThe Roman expeditionary force set sail from Constantinople in late June 533, and after a sea voyage along the coasts of Greece and southern Italy, landed on the African coast at Caputvada in early September, to Gelimer's complete surprise. The Vandal king gathered his forces and met the Roman army at the Battle of Ad Decimum, near Carthage, on 13 September. Gelimer's elaborate plan to encircle and destroy the Roman army came close to success, but Belisarius was able to drive the Vandal army to flight and occupy Carthage. Gelimer withdrew to Bulla Regia, where he gathered his remaining strength, including the army of Tzazon, which returned from Sardinia. In December, Gelimer advanced towards Carthage and met the Romans at the Battle of Tricamarum. The battle resulted in a Roman victory and the death of Tzazon. Gelimer fled to a remote mountain fortress, where he was blockaded until he surrendered in the spring.\n\nBelisarius returned to Constantinople with the Vandals' royal treasure and the captive Gelimer to enjoy a triumph, while Africa was formally restored to imperial rule as the praetorian prefecture of Africa. Imperial control scarcely reached beyond the old Vandal kingdom, however, and the Moorish tribes of the interior proved unwilling to accept imperial rule and soon rose up in rebellion. The new province was shaken by the wars with the Moors and military rebellions, and it was not until 548 that peace was restored and Roman government firmly established.\n\nIn the course of the gradual decline and dissolution of the Western Roman Empire in the early 5th century, the Germanic tribe of the Vandals, allied with the Alans, had established themselves in the Iberian peninsula. In 429, the Roman governor of the Diocese of Africa, Bonifacius, who had rebelled against the West Roman emperor Valentinian III (r. 425–455) and was facing an invasion by imperial troops, called upon the Vandalic King Geiseric for aid. Thus, in May 429, Geiseric crossed the straits of Gibraltar with his entire people, reportedly 80,000 in total. Geiseric's Vandals and Alans, however, had their own plans, and aimed to conquer the African provinces outright. Their possession of Mauretania Caesariensis, Mauretania Sitifensis and most of Numidia was recognized in 435 by the Western Roman court, but this was only a temporary expedient. Warfare soon recommenced, and in October 439, the capital of Africa, Carthage, fell to the Vandals. In 442, another treaty exchanged the provinces hitherto held by the Vandals with the core of the African diocese, the rich provinces of Zeugitana and Byzacena, which the Vandals received no longer as \"foederati\" of the Empire, but as their own possessions. These events marked the foundation of the Vandalic Kingdom, as the Vandals made Carthage their capital and settled around it. Although the Vandals now gained control of the lucrative African grain trade with Italy, they also launched raids on the coasts of the Mediterranean that ranged as far as the Aegean Sea and culminated in their sack of Rome itself in 455, which allegedly lasted for two weeks. Taking advantage of the chaos that followed Valentinian's death in 455, Geiseric then regained control—albeit rather tenuous—of the Mauretanian provinces, and with his fleet took over Sardinia, Corsica and the Balearic Islands. Sicily barely escaped the same fate through the presence there of Ricimer.\n\nThroughout this period, the Vandals survived several Roman attempts at a counterstrike: the Eastern Roman general Aspar had led an unsuccessful expedition in 431, an expedition assembled by the Western emperor Majorian (r. 457–461) off the coast of Spain in 460 was scattered or captured by the Vandals before it could set sail, and finally, in 468, Geiseric defeated a huge joint expedition by both western and eastern empires under Basiliscus. In the aftermath of this disaster, and following further Vandal raids against the shores of Greece, the eastern emperor Zeno (r. 474–491) concluded a \"perpetual peace\" with Geiseric (474/476).\n\nThe Vandal state was unique in many respects among the Germanic kingdoms that succeeded the Western Roman Empire: instead of respecting and continuing the established Roman socio-political order, they completely replaced it with their own. Whereas the kings of Western Europe continued to pay deference to the emperors and minted coinage with their portraits, the Vandal kings portrayed themselves as fully independent rulers. The Vandals also consciously differentiated themselves from the native Romano-African population through their continued use of their native language and peculiar dress, which served to emphasize their distinct social position as the elite of the kingdom. In addition, the Vandals—like most Germanics, adherents of Arianism—persecuted the Chalcedonian majority of the local population, especially in the reigns of Huneric (r. 477–484) and Gunthamund (r. 484–496). The emperors at Constantinople protested at this, but the peace held for almost sixty years, and relations were often friendly, especially between Emperor Anastasius I (r. 491–518) and Thrasamund (r. 496–523), who largely ceased the persecutions.\nIn 523, Hilderic (r. 523–530), the son of Huneric, ascended the throne at Carthage. Himself a descendant of Valentinian III, Hilderic re-aligned his kingdom and brought it closer to the Roman Empire: according to the account of Procopius (\"The Vandalic War\", I.9) he was an unwarlike, amiable person, who ceased the persecution of the Chalcedonians, exchanged gifts and embassies with Justinian I (r. 527–565) even before the latter's rise to the throne, and even replaced his image in his coins with that of the emperor. Justinian evidently hoped that this rapprochement would lead to the peaceful subordination of the Vandal state to his empire. However, Hilderic's pro-Roman policies, coupled with a defeat suffered against the Moors in Byzacena, led to opposition among the Vandal nobility, which resulted in his overthrow and imprisonment in 530 by his cousin, Gelimer (r. 530–534). Justinian seized the opportunity, demanding Hilderic's restoration, with Gelimer predictably refusing to do so. Justinian then demanded Hilderic's release to Constantinople, threatening war otherwise. Geiseric was unwilling to surrender a rival claimant to Justinian, who could use him to stir up trouble in his kingdom, and probably expected war to come either way, according to J.B. Bury. He consequently refused Justinian's demand on the grounds that this was an internal matter among the Vandals.\n\nJustinian now had his pretext, and with peace restored on his eastern frontier with Sassanid Persia in 532, he started assembling an invasion force. According to Procopius (\"The Vandalic War\", I.10), the news of Justinian's decision to go to war with the Vandals caused great consternation among the capital's elites, in whose minds the disaster of 468 was still fresh. The financial officials resented the expenditure involved, while the military was weary from the Persian war and feared the Vandals' sea-power. The emperor's scheme received support mostly from the Church, reinforced by the arrival of victims of renewed persecutions from Africa. Only the powerful minister John the Cappadocian dared to openly voice his opposition to the expedition, however, and Justinian disregarded it and pressed on with his preparations.\n\nSoon after his seizure of power, Gelimer's domestic position began to deteriorate, as he persecuted his political enemies among the Vandal nobility, confiscating their property and executing many of them. These actions undermined his already doubtful legitimacy in the eyes of many, and contributed to the outbreak of two revolts in remote provinces of the Vandal kingdom: in Sardinia, where the local governor, Godas, declared himself an independent ruler, and shortly after in Tripolitania, where the native population, led by a certain Pudentius, rebelled against Vandal rule. Although Procopius' narrative makes both uprisings seem coincidental, Ian Hughes points out the fact that both rebellions broke out shortly before the commencement of the Roman expedition against the Vandals, and that both Godas and Pudentius immediately asked for assistance from Justinian, as evidence of an active diplomatic involvement by the Emperor in their preparation.\n\nIn response to Godas' emissaries, Justinian detailed Cyril, one of the officers of the \"foederati\", with 400 men, to accompany the invasion fleet and then sail on to Sardinia. Gelimer reacted to Godas' rebellion by sending the bulk of his fleet, 120 of his best vessels, and 5,000 men under his own brother Tzazon, to suppress it. The Vandal king's decision played a crucial role in the outcome of the war, for it removed from the scene the Vandal navy, the main obstacle to a Roman landing in Africa, as well as a large part of his army. Gelimer also chose to ignore the revolt in Tripolitania for the moment, as it was both a lesser threat and more remote, while his lack of manpower constrained him to await Tzazon's return from Sardinia before undertaking further campaigns. At the same time, both rulers tried to win over allies: Gelimer contacted the Visigoth king Theudis (r. 531–548) and proposed an alliance, while Justinian secured the benevolent neutrality and support of the Ostrogothic Kingdom of Italy, which had strained relations with the Vandals over the ill treatment of the Ostrogoth princess Amalafrida, the wife of Thrasamund. The Ostrogoth court readily agreed to allow the Roman invasion fleet to use the harbour of Syracuse in Sicily and establish a market for the provisioning of the Roman troops there.\n\nJustinian selected one of his most trusted and talented generals, Belisarius, who had recently distinguished himself against the Persians and in the suppression of the Nika riots, to lead the expedition. As Ian Hughes points out, Belisarius was also eminently suited for this appointment for two other reasons: he was a native Latin-speaker, and was solicitous of the welfare of the local population, keeping a tight leash on his troops. Both these qualities would be crucial in winning support from the Latin-speaking African population. Belisarius was accompanied by his wife, Antonina, and by Procopius, his secretary, who wrote the history of the war.\n\nAccording to Procopius (\"The Vandalic War\", I.11), the army consisted of 10,000 infantry, partly drawn from the field army (\"comitatenses\") and partly from among the \"foederati\", as well as 5,000 cavalry. There were also some 1,500–2,000 of Belisarius' own retainers (\"bucellarii\"), an elite corps (it is unclear if their number is included in the 5,000 cavalry mentioned as a total figure by Procopius). In addition, there were two additional bodies of allied troops, both mounted archers, 600 Huns and 400 Heruls. The army was led by an array of experienced officers, among whom the eunuch Solomon was chosen as Belisarius' chief of staff (\"domesticus\") and the former praetorian prefect Archelaus was placed in charge of the army's provisioning. The whole force was transported on 500 vessels manned by 30,000 sailors under admiral Calonymus of Alexandria, guarded by ninety-two dromon warships. The traditional view, as expressed by J.B. Bury, is that the expeditionary force was remarkably small for the task, especially given the military reputation of the Vandals, and that perhaps it reflects the limit of the fleet's carrying capacity, or perhaps it was an intentional move to limit the impact of any defeat. Ian Hughes however comments that even in comparison with the armies of the early Roman Empire, Belisarius' army was a \"large, well-balanced force capable of overcoming the Vandals and may have contained a higher proportion of high quality, reliable troops than the armies stationed in the east\".\n\nOn the Vandal side, the picture is less clear. The Vandal army was not a professional and mostly volunteer force like the East Roman army, but comprised every able-bodied male of the Vandal people. Hence modern estimates on the available forces vary along with estimates on the total Vandal population, from a high of between 30,000–40,000 men out of a total Vandal population of at most 200,000 people (Diehl and Bury), to as few as 25,000 men—or even 20,000, if their losses against the Moors are taken into account—for a population base of 100,000 (Hughes). Despite their martial reputation, the Vandals had grown less warlike over time, having come to lead a luxurious life amidst the riches of Africa. In addition, their mode of fighting was ill-suited to confronting Belisarius' veterans: the Vandal army was composed exclusively of cavalry, lightly armoured and armed only for hand-to-hand combat, to the point of neglecting entirely the use of bows or javelins, in stark contrast to Belisarius' heavily armoured cataphracts and horse archers.\n\nThe Vandals were also weakened by the hostility of their Roman subjects, the continued existence among the Vandals of a faction loyal to Hilderic, and by the ambivalent position of the Moorish tribes, who watched the oncoming conflict from the sidelines, ready to join the victor and seize the spoils.\n\nAmidst much pomp and ceremony, with Justinian and the Patriarch of Constantinople in attendance, the Roman fleet set sail around 21 June 533. The initial progress was slow, as the fleet spent five days at Heraclea Perinthus waiting for horses and further four days at Abydus due to lack of wind. The fleet left the Dardanelles on 1 July, and crossed the Aegean Sea to the port of Methone, where it was joined by the last contingents of troops. Belisarius took advantage of an enforced stay there due to a lull in the wind to train his troops and acquaint the disparate contingents with each other. It was at Methone, however, that 500 men died of dysentery caused by mouldy bread. According to Procopius, the responsibility fell on John the Cappadocian, who had cut costs by baking it only once, with the result that the bread went bad. Justinian was informed, but John does not appear to have been punished. Belisarius took steps to remedy the situation, and the army soon recovered.\n\nFrom Methone, the fleet sailed up the Ionian Sea to Zacynthus, from where they crossed over to Italy. The crossing took longer than expected due to lack of wind, and the army suffered of lack of fresh water when the supplies they had brought aboard went bad. Eventually, the fleet reached Catania in Sicily, from where Belisarius sent Procopius ahead to Syracuse to gather intelligence on the Vandals' activities. By chance, Procopius met a merchant friend of his there, whose servant had just arrived from Carthage. The latter informed Procopius that not only were the Vandals unaware of Belisarius' sailing, but that Gelimer, who had just dispatched Tzazon's expedition to Sardinia, was away from Carthage at the small inland town of Hermione. Procopius quickly informed Belisarius, who immediately ordered the army to re-embark and set sail for the African coast. After sailing by Malta, they reached Cape Caputvada on the eastern shore of modern Tunisia some 162 Roman miles (240 km) south from Carthage.\n\nWhen the Roman fleet reached Africa, a council was held aboard Belisarius' flagship (\"The Vandalic War\", I.15), where many of his officers advocated an immediate attack on Carthage itself, especially since it was the only fortified city in the Vandal realm, the walls of the other cities having been torn down to prevent a rebellion. Belisarius, however, mindful of the fate of the 468 expedition and wary of an encounter with the Vandal fleet, spoke against it. Thus the army disembarked and built a fortified camp to spend the night.\n\nBelisarius knew that success for his expedition relied on gaining the support of the local population, which had largely retained its Roman identity and to which he presented himself as a liberator. Thus on the next day of the landing, when some of his men stole some fruit from a local orchard, he severely punished them, and assembled the army and exhorted them to maintain discipline and restraint towards the native population, lest they abandon their Roman sympathies and go over to the Vandals. Belisarius' pleas bore results, for, as Procopius reports (\"The Vandalic War\", I.17), \"the soldiers behaved with moderation, and they neither began any unjust brawls nor did anything out of the way, and [Belisarius], by displaying great gentleness and kindness, won the Libyans to his side so completely that thereafter he made the journey as if in his own land\".\n\nThen the Roman army began its march north, following the coastal road. 300 horse under John the Armenian were detached as an advance guard some 3 miles (4.5 km) in front of the main army, while the 600 Huns covered the army's left flank. Belisarius himself with his \"bucellarii\" led up the rear, to guard against any attack from Gelimer, who was known to be in the vicinity. The fleet followed the army, sailing along the coast. The first town they encountered was Syllectum, which was captured by a detachment under Boriades by a ruse. In an attempt to sow division among the Vandals, Belisarius gave a letter written by Justinian and addressed to the Vandal nobles to a captured Vandal messenger, in which the emperor claimed to be campaigning on behalf of the legitimate king Hilderic against the usurper Gelimer. As the messenger was too afraid to deliver the letter, this ploy came to nothing.\nGelimer, in the meantime, upon learning of the Romans' arrival, immediately notified his brother Ammatas in Carthage to assemble the Vandal forces in the vicinity, as well as to execute Hilderic and his relatives, while his secretary Bonifatius was ordered to load the royal treasure on a ship and sail for Spain if the Romans won. Deprived of his best troops, which were with Tzazon, Gelimer contented himself with shadowing the northward march of the Roman army, all the while preparing a decisive engagement before Carthage, at a place called Ad Decimum (\"at the tenth [milepost]\") where he had ordered Ammatas to bring his forces. The Romans advanced through Thapsus, Leptis Parva and Hadrumetum to Grasse, where for the first time they engaged in a skirmish with the scouts of Gelimer's army. After exchanging blows, both parties retired to their camps. From Grasse, Belisarius turned his army westwards, cutting across the neck of the Cape Bon peninsula. This was the most dangerous part of the route to Carthage, with the fleet out of sight.\n\nThus, on the morning of 13 September, the tenth day of the march from Caputvada, the Roman army approached Ad Decimum. There Gelimer planned to ambush and encircle them, using a force under his brother Ammatas to block their advance and engage them, while 2,000 men under his nephew Gibamund would attack their left flank, and Gelimer himself with the main army would attack from the rear and completely annihilate the Roman army. In the event, the three forces failed to synchronize exactly: Ammatas arrived early and was killed as he attempted a reconnaissance with a small force by the Roman vanguard, while Gibamund's force was intercepted by the Hunnic flank guard and was utterly destroyed. Unaware of all this, Gelimer marched up with the main army and scattered the Roman advance forces present at Ad Decimum. Victory might have been his, but he then came upon his dead brother's body, and apparently forgot all about the battle. This gave Belisarius the time to rally his troops, come up with his main cavalry force and defeat the disorganized Vandals. Gelimer with the remainder of his forces fled westwards to Numidia. The Battle of Ad Decimum ended in a crushing Roman victory, and Carthage lay open and undefended before Belisarius.\n\nIt was only by nightfall, when John the Armenian with his men and the 600 Huns rejoined his army, that Belisarius realized the extent of his victory. The cavalry spent the night at the battlefield. In the next morning, as the infantry (and Antonina) caught up, the whole army made for Carthage, where it arrived as night was falling. The Carthaginians had thrown open the gates and illuminated the city in celebration, but Belisarius, fearing a possible ambush in the darkness and wishing to keep his soldiers under tight control, refrained from entering the city, and encamped before it.\n\nOn the morning of the next day, 15 September, Belisarius drew up the army for battle before the city walls, but as no enemy appeared, he led his army into the city, after again exhorting his troops to show discipline. The Roman army received a warm welcome from the populace, which was favourably impressed by its restraint. While Belisarius himself took possession of the royal palace, seated himself on the king's throne, and consumed the dinner which Gelimer had confidently ordered to be ready for his own victorious return, the fleet entered the Lake of Tunis and the army was billeted throughout the city. The remaining Vandals were rounded up and placed under guard to prevent them from causing trouble. Belisarius dispatched Solomon to Constantinople to bear the emperor news of the victory, but expecting an imminent re-appearance of Gelimer with his army, he lost no time in repairing the largely ruined walls of the city and rendering it capable of sustaining a siege.\nDuring the following weeks, while Belisarius remained in Carthage strengthening its walls, Gelimer established himself and the remnant of his army at Bulla Regia. By distributing money he had managed to cement the loyalty of the locals to his cause, and sent messages recalling Tzazon and his men from Sardinia, where they had been successful in re-establishing Vandal authority and killing Godas. While waiting for Tzazon's arrival, the Vandal king's army also increased by the arrival of more and more fugitives from the battle of Ad Decimum, as well as by a contingent of his Moorish allies. Most of the Moorish tribes of Numidia and Byzacena, however, sent embassies to Belisarius, pledging allegiance to the Empire. Some even offered hostages and asked for the insignia of office traditionally awarded to them by the emperor: a gilded silver staff and a silver crown, a white cloak, a white tunic, and a gilded boot. Belisarius had been furnished by Justinian with these items in anticipation of this demand, and duly dispatched them along with sums of money. Nevertheless, it was clear that, as long as the outcome of the war remained undecided, neither side could count on the firm loyalty of the Moors. During this period, messengers from Tzazon, sent to announce his recovery of Sardinia, sailed into Carthage unaware that the city had fallen and were taken captive, followed shortly after by Gelimer's envoys to Theudis, who had reached Spain after the news of the Roman successes had arrived there and hence failed to secure an alliance. Belisarius was also reinforced by the Roman general Cyril with his contingent, who had sailed to Sardinia only to find it once again in possession of the Vandals.\n\nAs soon as Tzazon received his brother's message, he left Sardinia and landed in Africa, joining up with Gelimer at Bulla. The Vandal king now determined to advance on Carthage. His intentions are not clear; the traditional interpretation is that he hoped to reduce the city by blockading it, but Ian Hughes believes that, lacking the reserves for a protracted war of attrition, he hoped to force Belisarius into a \"single, decisive confrontation\". Approaching the city, the Vandal army cut the aqueduct supplying it with water, and attempted to prevent provisions from arriving in the city. Gelimer also dispatched agents to the city to undermine the loyalty of the inhabitants and the imperial army. Belisarius, who was alert to the possibility of treachery, set an example by impaling a citizen of Carthage who intended to join the Vandals. The greatest danger for defection came from the Huns, who were disgruntled because they had been ferried to Africa against their will and feared being left there as a garrison. Indeed, Vandal agents had already made contact with them, but Belisarius managed to maintain their allegiance—at least for the moment—by making a solemn promise that after the final victory they would be richly rewarded and allowed to return to their homes. Their loyalty however remained suspect, and, like the Moors, the Huns probably awaited to see who would emerge as the victor and rally to him.\n\nAfter securing the loyalty of the populace and the army, and completing the repairs to the walls, Belisarius resolved to meet Gelimer in battle, and in mid-December marched out of Carthage in the direction of the fortified Vandal camp at Tricamarum, some 28 km from Carthage. As at Ad Decimum, the Roman cavalry proceeded in advance of the infantry, and the ensuing Battle of Tricamarum was a purely cavalry affair, with Belisarius' army considerably outnumbered. Both armies kept their most untrustworthy elements—the Moors and Huns—in reserve. John the Armenian played the most important role on the Roman side, and Tzazon on the Vandal. John led repeated charges at the Vandal centre, culminating in the death of Tzazon. This was followed by a general Roman attack across the front and the collapse of the Vandal army, which retreated to its camp. Gelimer, seeing that all was lost, fled with a few attendants into the wilds of Numidia, whereupon the remaining Vandals gave up all thoughts of resistance and abandoned their camp to be plundered by the Romans. Like the previous battle at Ad Decimum, it is again notable that Belisarius failed to keep his forces together, and was forced to fight with a considerable numerical disadvantage. The dispersal of his army after the battle, looting heedlessly and leaving themselves vulnerable to a potential Vandal counter-attack was also an indication of the poor discipline in the Roman army and the command difficulties Belisarius faced. As Bury comments, the expedition's fate might have been quite different \"if Belisarius had been opposed to a commander of some ability and experience in warfare\", and points out that Procopius himself \"expresses amazement at the issue of the war, and does not hesitate to regard it not as a feat of superior strategy but as a paradox of fortune\".\nA Roman detachment under John the Armenian pursued the fleeing Vandal king for five days and nights, and was almost upon him when he was killed in an accident. The Romans halted to mourn their leader, allowing Gelimer to escape, first to Hippo Regius and from there to the city of Medeus on Mount Papua, on whose Moorish inhabitants he could rely. Belisarius sent 400 men under the Herul Pharas to blockade him there. Belisarius himself made for Hippo Regius, where the Vandals who had fled to various sanctuaries surrendered to the Roman general, who promised that they would be well treated and sent to Constantinople in spring. Belisarius was also fortunate in recovering the Vandal royal treasure, which had been loaded in a ship at Hippo. Bonifatius, Gelimer's secretary, was supposed to sail with it to Spain, where Gelimer too would later follow, but adverse winds kept the ship in harbour and in the end, Bonifatius handed it over to the Romans in exchange for his own safety (as well as a considerable share of the treasure, if Procopius is to be believed). Belisarius also began to extend his authority over the more distant provinces and outposts of the Vandal kingdom: Cyril was dispatched to Sardinia and Corsica with Tzazon's head as proof of his victory, John was sent to Caesarea on the coast of Mauretania Caesariensis, another John was sent to the twin fortresses of Septem and Gadira, which controlled the Straits of Gibraltar, and Apollinarius to take possession of the Balearic Islands. Aid was also sent to the provincials in Tripolitania, who had been subject to attacks by the local Moorish tribes. Belisarius also demanded the return of the port of Lilybaeum in western Sicily from the Ostrogoths, who had captured it during the war, as it too had been part of the Vandal kingdom. An exchange of letters followed between Justinian and the Ostrogoth court, through which Justinian was drawn into the intrigues of the latter, leading to the Roman invasion of Italy a year later.\n\nMeanwhile, Gelimer remained blockaded by Pharas at the mountain stronghold of Medeus, but as the blockade dragged through the winter, Pharas grew impatient. He attacked the mountain stronghold, only to be beaten back with the loss of a quarter of his men. While a success for Gelimer, it did not alter his hopeless situation as he and his followers remained tightly blockaded and began to suffer from lack of food. Pharas sent him messages calling upon him to surrender and spare his followers the misery, but it was not until March that the Vandal king agreed to surrender after receiving guarantees for his safety. Gelimer was then escorted to Carthage.\n\nBelisarius would not remain long in Africa to consolidate his success, as a number of officers in his army, in hopes of their own advancement, sent messengers to Justinian claiming that Belisarius intended to establish his own kingdom in Africa. Justinian then gave his general two choices as a test of his intentions: he could return to Constantinople or remain in Africa. Belisarius, who had captured one of the messengers and was aware of the slanders against him, chose to return. He left Africa in the summer, accompanied by Gelimer, large numbers of captured Vandals—who were enrolled in five regiments of the \"Vandali Iustiniani\" (\"Vandals of Justinian\") by the emperor—and the Vandal treasure, which included many objects looted from Rome 80 years earlier, including the imperial regalia and the menorah of the Second Temple. In Constantinople, Belisarius was given the honour of celebrating a triumph—the first to be celebrated in Constantinople since its foundation and the first granted to a private citizen in over five and a half centuries—and described by Procopius:\n\nGelimer was given an ample estate in Galatia, and would have been raised to patrician rank if he had not steadfastly refused to renounce his Arian faith. Belisarius was also named \"consul ordinarius\" for the year 535, allowing him to celebrate a second triumphal procession, being carried through the streets seated on his consular curule chair, held aloft by Vandal warriors, distributing largesse to the populace from his share of the war booty.\n\nImmediately after Tricamarum, Justinian hastened to proclaim the recovery of Africa: \nThe emperor was determined to restore the province to its former extent and prosperity—indeed, in the words of J.B. Bury, he intended \"to wipe out all traces of the Vandal conquest, as if it had never been, and to restore the conditions which had existed before the coming of Geiseric\". To this end, the Vandals were barred from holding office or even property, which was returned to its former owners; most Vandal males became slaves, while the victorious Roman soldiers took their wives; and the Chalcedonian Church was restored to its former position while the Arian Church was dispossessed and persecuted. As a result of these measures, the Vandal population was diminished and emasculated. It gradually disappeared entirely, becoming absorbed into the broader provincial population. Already in April 534, before the surrender of Gelimer, the old Roman provincial division along with the full apparatus of Roman administration was restored, under a praetorian prefect rather than under a diocesan \"vicarius\", since the original parent prefecture of Africa, Italy, was still under Ostrogothic rule. The army of Belisarius was left behind to form the garrison of the new prefecture, under the overall command of a \"magister militum\" and several regional \"duces\". Almost from the start, an extensive fortification programme was also initiated, including the construction of city walls as well as smaller forts to protect the countryside, whose remnants are still among the most prominent archaeological remains in the region.\n\nDespite Justinian's intentions and proclamations, however, Roman control over Africa was not yet secure. During his campaign, Belisarius had secured most of the provinces of Byzacena, Zeugitana and Tripolitania. Further west, on the other hand, imperial control extended in a series of strongholds captured by the fleet along the coast as far as Constantine, while most of the inland areas of Numidia and Mauretania remained under the control of the local Moorish tribes, as indeed had been the case under the Vandal kings. The Moors initially acknowledged the Emperor's suzerainty and gave hostages to the imperial authorities, but they soon became restive and rose in revolt. The first imperial governor, Belisarius' former \"domesticus\" Solomon, who combined the offices of both \"magister militum\" and praetorian prefect, was able to score successes against them and strengthen Roman rule in Africa, but his work was interrupted by a widespread military mutiny in 536. The mutiny was eventually subdued by Germanus, a cousin of Justinian, and Solomon returned in 539. He fell, however, in the Battle of Cillium in 544 against the united Moorish tribes, and Roman Africa was again in jeopardy. It would not be until 548 that the resistance of the Moorish tribes would be finally broken by the talented general John Troglita.\n\n"}
