{"id": "26533901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26533901", "title": "Alexander Mosby Clayton", "text": "Alexander Mosby Clayton\n\nAlexander Mosby Clayton (January 15, 1801 – September 30, 1889) was an American politician who served as a Deputy from Mississippi to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States from February to May 1861.\n\nClayton was born in Campbell County, Virginia. He migrated first to Arkansas, where he served on the Territorial Supreme Court in 1832, then to Mississippi where he served as a state court judge from 1842 to 1852. In 1853 he served as United States consul in Havana, Cuba. He represented the state in the Provisional C.S. Congress from February to May, 1861. He resigned and was appointed as a Confederate District Court Judge for the balance of the year. After the war he again served as a state court judge from 1866 to 1869.\n\n"}
{"id": "13120076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13120076", "title": "Amri Hernández-Pellerano", "text": "Amri Hernández-Pellerano\n\nAmri Hernández-Pellerano is a Puerto Rican electronics engineer and scientist who designs, builds and tests the electronics that will regulate the solar array power in order to charge the spacecraft battery and distribute power to the different loads or users inside various spacecraft at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. She designed the power systems electronics for the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) mission. WMAP is a NASA Explorer mission spacecraft which measures the temperature of the cosmic background radiation over the full sky with unprecedented accuracy.\n\nHernández-Pellerano was born and raised in Puerto Rico where she received her primary and secondary education. Her parents played an instrumental role in her life by encouraging her to pursue a college education. During her elementary school years, the subjects which she enjoyed most were math and science. She entered the University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez after she graduated from high school. While in college, she was accepted into the NASA Cooperative Education Program which allowed her to work with NASA scientists at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland and at the sametime earn school credits. She started working at GSFC full-time after she earned her Electrical Engineering Bachelor (BSEE) degree at the UPR. While working full-time, GSFC provided her the opportunity to complete a master's degree in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University.\n\nIn 1992, Hernández-Pellerano began working for the Power Systems Branch (PSB) at Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC). As a Power System Electronics designer she has been involved in the design and implementation of power system electronics (PSE) for various scientific spacecraft. These include the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM), the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) and the Earth Observing-1 (EO-1) which are currently still in operation.\n\nHer responsibilities include the designing, building and testing of the electronics that will regulate the solar array power in order to charge the spacecraft battery and distribute power to the different loads or users inside various spacecraft.\n\nIn 2003, she received the GSFC Engineering Achievement Award for her design of the Power Systems Electronics for the WMAP mission. WMAP is a NASA Explorer mission spacecraft which measures the temperature of the cosmic background radiation over the full sky with unprecedented accuracy. This map of the remnant heat from the Big Bang provides answers to fundamental questions about the origin and fate of our universe. In 2006, she was awarded NASA's Exceptional Service Medal.\n\nShe is currently working on the Space Technology-5 (ST5), the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO), the Lunar Reconnaissance Observer (LRO) and the Aquarius/SAC-D () missions. Hernández-Pellerano is also the chair for the Hispanic Advisory Committee for Employees (HACE) at GSFC. This committee works with the Equal Opportunity Office and among other responsibilities, serves as a focal point for the concerns of Hispanic employees on matters affecting their employment at GSFC.\n\nHernández-Pellerano is married to fellow Puerto Rican Fernando Pellerano, a NASA scientist, whose job requires the planification, design and implementation of microwave instruments used in the scientific observations of the Earth and Space.\n\nAmong the written works which she has authored and/or co-authored are the following: \n\n"}
{"id": "54436798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54436798", "title": "Anna Dreimane", "text": "Anna Dreimane\n\nAnna Dreimane (born July 4, 1997) is a Latvian basketball player for Colorado State Rams and the Latvian national team.\n\nShe participated at the EuroBasket Women 2017.\n"}
{"id": "54628774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54628774", "title": "Antônio da Silva Mello", "text": "Antônio da Silva Mello\n\nAntônio da Silva Mello (May 10, 1886 - September 19, 1973), best known as A. da Silva Mello was a Brazilian physician and writer.\n\nMello was born in Juiz de Fora. He studied at the Granbery Institute and then joined the Medical School of Rio de Janeiro, where he attended until the third year, when he moved to Berlin, graduating in 1914. He specialized in clinical medicine, publishing scientific papers on the subject. He wrote on epidemiology, immunity, metabolism, nephrology, nutrition and psychology.\n\nIn 1918 he returned to Brazil, he was a professor at the Faculty of Medicine of Rio de Janeiro. He held courses for physicians and students at the Policlínica de Botafogo and Santa Casa de Misericórdia.\n\nIn 1944 he founded the \"Brazilian Journal of Medicine\", of which he was scientific director until 1973. Mello was a member of the Academia Brasileira de Letras and the Brazilian Academy of Medicine. He identified as an agnostic.\n\nMello was a friend of psychiatrist Rudolf Dreikurs who was impressed by his research on mental health.\n\nMello was the author of the skeptical book \"Mistérios e Realidades Deste e do Outro Mundo\" published in Brazil in 1950. It was translated into English by M. B. Fierz and published as \"Mysteries and Realities of This World and the Next\" by Weidenfeld & Nicolson in 1960. He examined case studies of faith healing, hypnosis, parapsychology and spiritualism. He discovered much credulity, deception and exaggeration. According to a review it is a \"very interesting and provocative work... [Mello] disbelieves in the reality of paranormal phenomena and thinks that all can be explained in terms of the known. In his view psychical researchers are both credulous and gullible and are to be blamed for pandering to human superstition and the widespread hunger for the occult.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32843772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32843772", "title": "Appayya Swamigalu", "text": "Appayya Swamigalu\n\nAppaiah Swami or Sadguru Appayya Swami (ಅಪ್ಪಯ ಸ್ವಾಮಿ 1885–1956) (not to be mistaken with Appayya Swamy, a 17th-century Carnatic Musician and scholar of Tamil Nadu) was a Hindu Indian spiritual master who lived in Virajpet town, in Kodagu, Karnataka, India.\n\nAppayya Swami was born as Palanganda Appaiah, the son of a Kodava paddy farmer in Kodagu (Coorg) in 1885.Appayya did his schooling in English and Kannada at Central High School, Mercara. Later he entered the Government Service under the Raj. However, he was of a religious bend of mind since childhood, and was inspired by the lives of Ramakrishna Paramhansa and Swami Vivekananda. He sought a spiritual guru, eventually selecting Guru Ramagiri.\n\nHis Guru ordained him and Swamigalu learned and composed several hymns. Through the path of devotion, he attained self-realization. Over time he became a spiritual teacher with several disciples and was hence given the title of Sadguru.\n\nIn 1941 he founded a monastery in Virajpet known as Kaveri Ashram after the river goddess Kaveri. His work in sustaining Hindu spirituality and culture in Coorg and its surrounding regions is being carried on by the Kaveri Ashram (also known as Cauvery Ashram ) today. A school is named after him in Somwarpet, Kodagu called Sadguru Appayya Swamy High School.\n\nHe died in 1956, aged 71.\n\n1. Śrī sadguru appayya vijaya (Kannada) authored by V.S. Rāmakriṣṇa (Śrī Kāvēri Āśrama, 1965) )\n\n2. Śrī sadguru appayya svāmijīyavara ātmakathe mattu sandēśa (Kannada) (Śrīkāvēri Bhakta Jana Saṅgha, 1965) \n\n1. A disciple of Sadguru Appayya speaks\n\n2. One among several newspaper articles related to Cauvery/Kaveri Ashram\n"}
{"id": "8813301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8813301", "title": "Arthur Findlay", "text": "Arthur Findlay\n\nArthur Findlay MBE JP (May 16, 1883 – July 24, 1964) was a writer, accountant, stockbroker and Essex magistrate, as well as a significant figure in the history of the religion of Spiritualism, being a partial founder of the newspaper \"Psychic News\" and also a founder of the International Institute for Psychical Research. In his will he left his home, Stansted Hall, to the Spiritualists' National Union.\n\nAged 17, he had become interested in the field of comparative religion, something of which his staunchly Christian parents disapproved of - they even burned many of his books on the subject. \n\nIn 1913 he was awarded the title of Member of The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire for his organisation work for the Red Cross.\n\nIn 1918 Findlay attended a séance with the direct voice medium John Campbell Sloan at a spiritualist church in Glasgow. During the next five years Findlay attended many seances at the medium's home and became convinced spirit voices were speaking through Sloan. However, the psychical researcher J. Malcolm Bird investigated Sloan and wrote he had no doubt that all the voices heard could be produced by the medium talking into the trumpet in a normal fashion. Bird also wrote the information given to the sitters could have easily been taken from public records and there was a lack of control in the séances. Bird wrote that \"the phenomena themselves were not particularly impressive; with the intermittent freedom of the medium, it seemed simple enough for him to have done most of them himself.\"\n\nFindlay's \"On the Edge of the Etheric\" (1931) defended Sloan's direct voice mediumship and supported the existence of an etheric body. The book was negatively reviewed in the \"Nature\" journal as anti-scientific. According to the review \"from reading Mr. Findlay's records, the scientific method might be thought not to exist. He seems to have no appreciation of the implications underlying many of his remarks; no desire to see the phenomena described in accurate and scientific terminology.\"\n\nFindlay in 1920 founded the Glasgow Society for Psychical Research. In 1923 he took part in the Church of Scotland's enquiry into psychic phenomenon. In the same year, he retired from his profession and purchased Stansted Hall in Stansted, England, a manor house built in 1871. \n\nIn 1932, he became a founding member of \"Psychic News\", a Spiritualist newspaper, along with Hannen Swaffer and Maurice Barbanell. He helped to found the International Institute for Psychical Research, of which he became the chairman. He also became an honorary member of both the American Foundation for Psychical Research, Edinburgh Psychic College and the honorary president of both the Institute of Psychic Writers and Artists and the Spiritualists' National Union.\nIn his will, he left Stansted Hall to the Spiritualists' National Union as a college for the advancement of Psychic Science, which was named the Arthur Findlay College of Psychic Science after him.\n\nIn 1938, the psychical researcher Nandor Fodor investigated the Thornton Heath poltergeist case that involved Mrs. Forbes. According to Rosemary Guiley \"Fodor asserted that the psychosis was an episodic mental disturbance of schizophrenic character, and that Mrs. Forbes' unconscious mind was responsible for the activities finally determined to be fraudulent. Fodor eventually identified the cause as sexual trauma that had occurred in Mrs. Forbes's childhood, and had been repressed.\" Because he was skeptical of the case, Fodor was heavily criticized by spiritualists and was dismissed from his post at the International Institute for Psychical Research. Findlay, the founder of institute did not approve of his research and resigned. Fodor was attacked in the Spiritualist newspaper, \"Psychic News\" which he sued for libel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54849818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54849818", "title": "Ben-Zion Alfes", "text": "Ben-Zion Alfes\n\nBen-Zion Alfes () (1851-1941) was a rabbi, author and Jewish orator. His most well-known book is \"Maaseh Alfes.\" The last work he saw published, written at age 90, was an autobiography titled \"The Life Story of the Maase Alfes.\" Another work, Toledot ve-Zikhronot, also an autobiography, but with a different focus, was published posthumously.\n\nBen-Zion Alfes was born in Vilna to Rabbi Yirmeyahu Akiva on the first of Kislev 5611 (1851).\" After studying with his father until the age of 15, he enrolled in Eishyshok yeshiva, where he became close to the son-in-law of Rabbi Avraham, brother of the Vilna Gaon. In 1872, he traveled to Palestine in the hopes of settling there but could find no source of livelihood. Upon returning to Vilna, he found work as a proof-reader at HaChevra Metz publishing house. An attempt at writing books for Jewish youngsters was the beginning of his writing career, especially since he received a Haskama\nfrom the Chofetz Chaim. He also translated many religious Hebrew works into Yiddish. His name also became well known due to public lectures and a network of schools, Toras Chesed, established for orphans and children from impoverished backgrounds.\n\nIn 1925, he returned to Palestine and settled in Petah Tikvah, where he became spiritual director of the Tiferet Bachurim society.\n\nHe and his wife Nechama had six children:\n\nHe punctuated his Yiddish-language translations/commentaries on Siddur, as well as Holiday prayer books (Machzorim) with Hebrew vowels, \"giving them the external appearance of Hebrew.\" This was of major benefit to women whose schooling was in Yiddish language using the Hebrew alphabet. He became known as a pioneer of Orthodox Yiddish literature.\n"}
{"id": "7114502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7114502", "title": "Carla Connor", "text": "Carla Connor\n\nCarla Connor (also Gordon and Barlow) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", played by Alison King. She made her first appearance on screen during the episode airing on 1 December 2006. Carla has been referred to as \"the new Elsie Tanner\". This was King's second role in the soap as she previously played Mrs. Fanshaw for one episode in 2004. King was off-screen from February 2009 until October 2009 due to her maternity leave. In May 2012 King announced she would be temporarily departing, her departure scenes aired on 16 July 2012 and her return scenes aired on 10 December 2012. On 1 May 2015, it was reported that King would take a sabbatical for \"creative reasons\" at some point in 2016. King later appeared in her 1,000th episode as Carla on 22 May 2015. On 8 January 2016, it was confirmed that instead of taking a sabbatical, King would be leaving permanently. She filmed her final scenes on 28 April 2016, and her departure was aired on 26 May 2016. It was announced on 14 August 2017 that King would return as Carla full-time that Christmas. Carla's return aired on-screen on 22 December 2017.\n\nCarla's storylines have included her relationship with Liam Connor (Rob James-Collier), being kidnapped by her deranged ex-husband Tony Gordon (Gray O'Brien) in her factory and escaping when the building explodes, battling alcoholism, drink driving and running over Stella Price (Michelle Collins), being raped by her fiancé Frank Foster (Andrew Lancel), attempting to commit suicide, becoming a suspect in Frank's murder, her affair and marriage to Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne), learning that Peter has been having an affair with Tina McIntyre (Michelle Keegan), becoming a suspect in Tina's murder and then suffering a miscarriage because of stress, surviving a minibus crash, escaping a fire at her flat started by her arch-enemy Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford), coping when people blame her for starting the fire, developing a gambling addiction, learning that family friend Johnny Connor (Richard Hawley) is actually her biological father, being attacked by thugs at the local restaurant which results in a road accident, being blackmailed by Tracy and later trying to kill her which leads to two car crashes on the street, resulting in her 2016 departure. Her notable storylines from 2017 onwards include telling her friend Roy Cropper (David Neilson) that she has kidney failure, undergoing a kidney transplant with her brother Aidan Connor, sleeping with Michelle Connor's biological son Alex Neeson (James Burrows), dealing with Aidan’s suicide, a feud with Alya Nazir (Sair Khan), falling back in love with Peter and blackmailing her ex-husband Nick Tilsley (Ben Price).\n\nCarla was born on 3 January 1975 in Manchester. She was the result of a one-night stand between her mother Sharon and Johnny Connor (Richard Hawley), a married man who lived close by. Johnny knew that Carla was most likely his daughter, but for the sake of his marriage, he buried the memory of his liaison with Sharon. He did, however, make child support payments to Sharon whenever she had nowhere else to turn, which he managed to keep hidden from his wife Lou. Sharon lived in poverty on a run-down council estate. Carla was born into a world of alcohol and drugs, which Sharon sold from Carla's pram. Sharon had plenty of boyfriends and, a few years after Carla was born, she gave birth to her second misbegotten child, Rob (Marc Baylis). She went on to marry George, who mistreated Carla and Rob and was hated by them. Carla's best friends growing up were Michelle (Kym Marsh), Paul (Sean Gallagher) and Liam Connor (Rob James-Collier) who lived in the nicer part of the estate. Michelle and her siblings were second cousins once removed of Johnny and third cousins of Johnny's children, Aidan (Shayne Ward) and Kate (Faye Brookes), with whom Carla was also friendly despite them being ten years younger than her. In 1993, Sharon told Lou about her affair with Johnny, leading Lou to run out of the house in the course of arguing with Johnny and being fatally struck by a drunk driver. As a teenager, Carla worked Saturdays in a shoe shop and on her birthday in 1997 she began a relationship with her future husband Paul, who she married on 26 January 1999 at age 24. With Paul earning good money, Carla's lifestyle changed for the better. For a while, she maintained regular visits to the family home but soon stopped as Rob constantly got at her for leaving him to deal with their mother's troubles by himself. To ease her conscience, Carla sent her mother expensive gifts, but because of where she lived Sharon was afraid they would be stolen and kept them under lock and key. Rob was later sent to Strangeways prison for armed robbery in 2004.\n\nCarla's family also used to know the Kerrigans as they were part of the Connor family. The Kerrigans included Tom (Philip McGinley) who later appeared on the street. They all grew up together on a council estate.\n\nCarla arrives and is furious to discover that her husband Paul had spent all the money she needed to start her children's clothing business, though to make more money she manipulated fellow factory workers Kelly Crabtree (Tupele Dorgu) and Joanne Jackson (Zaraah Abrahams) into working weekends, early mornings and late nights in order to raise money for her business. However, Kelly and Joanne eventually refuse to continue working for Carla as they became isolated from their friends and lack in freedom. Carla begins dating catalogue boss Tony Gordon (Gray O'Brien). Carla and Tony's relationship makes Liam jealous. During an argument, they kiss, confusing them both. Carla tries to stop Liam marrying Maria Sutherland (Samia Ghadie), so the two women feud. She ends things with Tony by admitting her feelings for Liam; however, Liam marries Maria so she and Tony reconcile; Tony proposes and Carla accepts. In May 2008, Carla supports Liam through the stillbirth of his and Maria's son, and the two sleep together. Carla's personal assistant, Rosie Webster (Helen Flanagan), records the pair kissing on her mobile phone. Carla threatens Rosie to dispose of the evidence. In June 2008, Carla blackmails Liam into selling his share of the factory to Tony by threatening to tell Maria about their one-night stand. In September, she invests in Tom Kerrigan (Philip McGinley) and Liam's new T-shirt business, but they agree to keep this from Tony and Maria. Tony discovers the one-night stand after viewing Rosie's video footage. Carla sleeps with Liam again prior to her wedding to Tony, and is prepared to cancel the wedding. However, she changes her mind upon discovering that Maria is pregnant. Carla is devastated by Liam's death in a hit-and-run incident orchestrated by Tony. Needing to get away, Carla postpones the wedding and goes to Los Angeles. She returns married to Tony. Tony later confesses to Carla for being responsible for Liam's death and a horrified Carla flees to Los Angeles.\n\nWhen Carla returns, she is contacted by the police after Tony confesses. Carla is attacked by thugs which break into her home. Robbie Sloan (James Fleet), Tony's cellmate, is released from prison and Tony fakes a heart attack to get out of prison. Robbie bails him out of the ambulance and they go to Weatherfield, intending to kill Carla. Robbie tricks Carla into entering the factory alone with him and holds her at gunpoint. After forcing her to evacuate the building, he leaves her bound and gagged in her office while he lures Hayley Cropper (Julie Hesmondhalgh) to the factory, who he also holds hostage. Tony appears, removes the silver duct tape from Carla's mouth, and shoots Robbie dead. He intends to burn the factory to the ground to kill Carla and Hayley, but Maria interrupts and he refuses to let her leave. Carla orders Maria to leave; she escapes. Carla manages to convince Tony to free Hayley. Tony later sets the factory on fire with petrol, whereby Carla manages to untie herself and after a struggle, she shoots Tony in the arm. She manages to flee the burning factory, however, Tony is killed when the building explodes.\n\nCarla returns to Weatherfield and is shocked when her business partner, Nick Tilsley (Ben Price), sets up a rival factory underneath the viaduct, and refuses to work with her, but before long, \"Underworld\" is eventually repaired. Carla later invites her boyfriend, Trevor Dean (Steve Jackson) to become a trainee manager in the factory, much to Nick's annoyance. Trevor finds working in the office difficult, however, and punches Nick as Carla watches on. Nick decides to leave the factory and demands that Carla buys his shares back which cost £150,000, while Trevor leaves her to reunite with Janice Battersby (Vicky Entwistle). Carla begins drinking heavily, and is stopped by Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) getting into her car. Peter decides to support her as he is also a recovering alcoholic and understands her. After being arrested for drink-driving and being collected from the police station by Peter, Carla confesses her feelings for him. Although he admits he is attracted to her, he remains faithful to Leanne Battersby (Jane Danson), his girlfriend. When Nick decides to set up a wine bar on Viaduct Street, he pressures Carla into giving him the money for his share, and she eventually remortgages her flat to get the money. Michelle later gives Carla a new idea for a product she could create in the factory. When Carla's buyer loves the idea, Carla offers Michelle a job in the office. In July 2011, Carla spends the night with her client Frank Foster (Andrew Lancel).\n\nCarla begins dating Frank, and ignores Maria when she tells her that he sexually assaulted her. Frank and Carla get engaged, however when meeting his parents Anne (Gwen Taylor) and Sam Foster (Paul Clayton), she becomes intoxicated, arguing with Frank and Anne. She then gets in her car with Frank and drives off, running over Leanne's mother Stella Price (Michelle Collins) and crashing into Peter's bookies. Frank switches places with Carla, who is unconscious, and lies that he was driving. The night before the wedding, Carla tells Frank she cannot marry him because she is in love with Peter, so Frank angrily rapes Carla. She rings Maria, who phones the police and Frank is arrested. He is released on bail, providing that he does not approach Carla or the factory. He threatens Carla, trying to make her drop the charges but she refuses, so he plans to ruin \"Underworld\". Carla struggles to cope and becomes more dependent on alcohol, attending meetings with Peter; they begin an affair. She attempts to commit suicide by overdosing on pills, but phones Peter, who then phones an ambulance. Carla survives and agrees to begin counselling. Carla is stunned when Stella confesses that she too was raped when she was younger, and reveals that she has never told anyone about her assault. Carla's erratic behaviour at the factory, however, quickly causes many of her clients to withdraw their orders and soon her employees find themselves with no work. As the business starts to haemorrhage money, Carla is forced to sack Becky McDonald (Katherine Kelly), Eileen Grimshaw (Sue Cleaver) and Sally Webster (Sally Dynevor). While Becky and Eileen understand, Sally is livid and demands a reason. Carla explains that Sally, unlike many of the other workers, is in a comfortable financial situation due to her ex-husband, Kevin Webster's (Michael Le Vell), large lottery win. Frank outwits Carla by employing Sally as a supervisor at his own factory. The factory is nearly bankrupted and Carla is unable to pay any due wages, causing the entire workforce to go on strike, with some defecting to Frank's factory. As Carla reaches the depths of her despair, Michelle returns and sends Carla away on holiday.\n\nIn December 2011, Peter starts drinking again. Carla goes to Peter's flat after hearing from Dev Alahan (Jimmi Harkishin) that he has taken a bottle of vodka. Peter tries to kiss Carla several times, but although she loves him, she reluctantly pulls away because of Leanne. Peter goes to leave, however, stays and sleeps with Carla, promising to leave Leanne for him. Carla spends the night and next day with Peter before he goes back to tell Leanne that their marriage is over. However, he does not, which leads to Carla feeling rejected. He is persistent and they eventually meet at Carla's flat, where they decide to reignite their affair until Peter is ready to tell Leanne. They later decide to do this after Frank's trial, since Frank was claiming as part of his defence that Carla and Peter were having an affair and plotting to falsely accuse him of rape to get rid of him. Peter and Carla are almost caught on several occasions, and Frank decides to hire a private investigator to follow Peter in the hope of catching him with Carla. The weekend before the trial, Peter arranges for them to go to a hotel in Chester, where the investigator takes pictures of them kissing outside. Peter is forced to confess to the affair when Anne, Frank's mother, hands over the photographs to Leanne in the public gallery. He comforts Carla briefly, before finding Leanne. The next day, he tells Carla, before she gives evidence against Frank, that he has left Leanne for her. Afterwards, Peter finds himself attempting to cope with his son Simon Barlow (Alex Bain), who, devastated over Leanne's departure, blames Carla and begins misbehaving for them. Carla overhears many people gossiping about her, and Stella bars her and Peter from The Rovers Return Inn.\n\nFrank offers Carla £50,000 to buy her share of \"Underworld\"; she initially refuses but eventually accepts when Frank's \"lawyer\" Jenny Sumner (Niky Wardley) offers to double his money - Jenny is secretly Frank's girlfriend, and part of Frank's plan to con Carla. Carla is furious when Frank reveals his plan; it is already too late as she has signed the forms. Frank soon makes himself an endless list of enemies, and Carla goes to confront him at \"Underworld\", where he admits he raped her and taunts her that he overpowered her easily. Later that night, Frank is found dead in the factory by Sean Tully (Antony Cotton) and Julie Carp (Katy Cavanagh), with Sally kneeling beside him with her hands covered in blood. Several residents are in the frame for Frank's murder, including Carla, Peter, Michelle, Sally and Kevin. The whiskey bottle used to kill Frank is found by Jason Grimshaw (Ryan Thomas), and he hands it to the police. Carla's fingerprints are on the bottle and she is arrested for murder but is later released without charge. Peter confesses to Frank's murder to protect Carla, but he is eliminated when a colleague of Peter's reveals that he was at his house when Frank died. It is eventually proven that Frank raped Carla when Sally reveals that he confessed it to her. Anne attacks Carla and accuses her of stealing the contract, when it was, in fact, Michelle, and Anne is warned to stay away from Carla. The police continue with their investigation, and it is revealed that Anne murdered Frank after she overheard him taunting Carla about getting away with raping her. Anne threatens Carla with a knife, before breaking down in tears and being arrested. In April 2012, Carla is informed by Frank's solicitor that Frank has left her his 40% share of the factory to her in his will, changing it when they were engaged and never changing it back; making her the sole owner of \"Underworld\".\n\nCarla supports Peter as he begins a custody battle against Leanne for Simon; he loses in June 2012 and Leanne wins custody. As a result, Peter begins drinking again, splitting up with Carla after a drunken row. Meanwhile, Carla's brother Rob arrives after being released from prison and begins helping her run \"Underworld\". Carla later decides to run away with Peter after he takes Simon without Leanne's consent, however she can see that Simon would rather be with Leanne, so Peter and Carla then leave without Simon. Carla and Peter return December 2012, just as Leanne is due to fly to Las Vegas to marry Nick. Peter is thrilled to see Simon but after Carla and Leanne get into a physical fight outside the factory, Carla admits she is struggling with being back in Weatherfield; they agree to leave again. However, Peter later admits that he cannot leave Simon again, so Carla leaves for Los Angeles alone. Carla later surprises Peter by returning on Christmas Eve, saying she could not be without him, unaware that Peter has declared his love for Leanne. Carla is furious to learn that Rob has been altering the accounts for the factory. She sacks him and he sets up on his own business, stealing Carla's clients and orders. Realising that she cannot beat Rob's tricks to win over her clients, she reluctantly offers him a share of the factory. However, Carla puts him in charge of packing, angering Rob. He gives his new girlfriend, Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford), a job in packing and she convinces him to pretend the van has been robbed whilst transporting expensive material, which they secretly sell on to another company. What Rob and Tracy are unaware of, however, is that Carla knows what they have done and asks a friend to claim to be interested in buying the material. An agreement is reached and Rob takes the material to the chosen location, only to be greeted by Carla and Peter. Tracy is sacked and Rob is forced to sell his share to Carla in return for her not going to the police. Peter's bookies begins to struggle financially. Carla is initially unaware of this, until Michelle tells her about Peter offering risky odds that could potentially bankrupt him. Peter accepts a large bet from Rob, including one that Peter cannot pay when Rob wins. This forces Peter to close his shop and allow Rob and Tracy to set up their own business. Carla gives Peter a share in the factory and he works in the office with her and Michelle, however this angers Michelle, so she quits.\n\nCarla accompanies Hayley to hospital for a scan, where she is diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Throughout Hayley's illness, she confides in Carla, who becomes protective of her. Carla and Anna Windass (Debbie Rush) find Hayley deceased on her bed with her husband, Roy Cropper (David Neilson). Carla then supports Roy as he grieves for Hayley, and is shocked to learn that Hayley committed suicide. Roy and Carla subsequently become good friends. Carla and Peter hire Tina McIntyre (Michelle Keegan) as a babysitter for Simon. Carla and Peter get married in December 2013, just as Rob discovers that Peter is having an affair with Tina. Tina tries to persuade Peter to leave Weatherfield with her. He agrees, although feels conflicted, wanting to remain with Weatherfield with Carla. During an argument with Rob and Tracy in The Rovers, Carla announces that she is pregnant just as Tina arrives to collect Peter. Tina storms out, swiftly followed by Peter. They have an almighty argument, ending in Tina scratching Peter across his face. Peter leaves, as Rob visits Tina and attacks her, telling her not to tell Carla about her affair with Peter. Unknown to Rob, Peter tells Carla about the affair. Tina tries to escape Rob, leading to the balcony of the building yard. A scuffle ensues and as Rob pushes Tina; she loses her balance and falls from the balcony, plummeting onto the cobbles below. Rob thinks Tina is dead and leaves the flat, before hearing Tina's groans and realises she is still alive. When Tina reveals that she will lie to the police that Rob intentionally tried to kill her, Rob picks up a metal pipe and brutally beats Tina. Meanwhile, Carla is furious about Peter's affair and storms out into a busy pub, shouting that she wants to \"kill\" Tina. She is restrained by Michelle, but eventually leaves the pub. Carla goes to Tina's flat and finds her seriously injured at the bottom of the balcony, and is seen by Leanne and Kal Nazir (Jimi Mistry), and soon finds herself prime suspect. She is arrested due to her fingerprints being on the weapon but later released without charge. At first, it is an assault investigation, but when Tina later dies from her injuries in hospital, it turns into a murder investigation. Carla confides in Roy repeatedly and slaps Peter when he tries to talk to her. Her stress finally catches up with her and she collapses in the street when Rob and Peter are fighting. She is rushed to hospital, where she is told that she has suffered a miscarriage. Carla struggles to cope with her miscarriage and gets drunk to drown her sorrows. When Rob confesses to Tina's murder to Carla, she fights with him and ultimately chooses to tell the police; Rob is arrested and charged with Tina's murder. From this, Carla begins an intense feud with Tracy.\n\nIn January 2015, Carla and her staff are involved in a minibus crash while on their way to collect a fashion award. When the minibus crashes, Carla becomes wedged in between the driver's seat and the passenger seat. Tracy notices Carla is still trapped inside and climbs into the wreckage to retrieve her. Carla has a broken leg from the accident and thanks Tracy for saving her. After hearing that Liz McDonald (Beverley Callard) is selling her share of The Rovers, Carla offers to buy her half so that Michelle and Steve would still be able to live and work there. However, nobody is aware that Tracy and Liz's partner, Tony Stewart (Terence Maynard), whom Tracy is having an affair with, are attempting to con Liz, Steve and Michelle out of the pub so that they can buy it. On the day of Steve and Michelle's wedding day in May 2015, Liz confides in Carla, revealing that Tony and Tracy's affair, and that they were conning her out of The Rovers. Carla offers to look after Tracy's daughter and Liz's granddaughter, Amy (Elle Mulvaney) for the night, and confronts Tracy in the pub toilets, where Carla gives Tracy some harsh home truths. Later that night, Tracy steals the keys to Carla's flat at Victoria Court, and lights a candle. She places the candle under a lampshade, and after spotting Carla asleep on the sofa, she contemplates killing her with a large ornament. After hearing Amy, Tracy quickly leaves, unaware that the lampshade has caught fire from the lit candle. When the fire is raging through the flat, Carla collapses from smoke inhalation and desperately tries to call Amy. Leanne breaks into the flat, and pulls Carla out of the building. After she gets her breath back, Carla reveals that Amy is still trapped inside, so Leanne and Kal run back in to save her. Kal saves Leanne and Amy, before Carla and the other residents watch in horror as the building explodes, killing Kal. Factory worker Maddie Heath (Amy James-Kelly) is also caught up in the explosion and is also killed. As Carla was asleep when she started the fire, Tracy tells the residents that it was Carla who started the fire, leading to Leanne shouting at her in the street and everybody else hating her.\n\nCarla plays a game of poker and wins a large amount of money. This subsequently leads to Carla developing an addiction to gambling, as it eases her guilt from the fire. Carla decides to go on holiday to Madrid. Carla returns a number of weeks later, and it is revealed that she actually went on holiday to Las Vegas in order to gamble. Michelle is furious and after trying to help her, Carla throws her out. Nick later accompanies Carla to a casino, and is stunned to learn how serious her addiction is. Realising the extent of her financial troubles, Carla decides to move away and later tries selling the factory to Sally and Kal's daughter Alya Nazir (Sair Khan). However, before any contracts are signed, her old friend, Aidan, arrives. Carla decides to go into partnership with Aidan, while also starting a relationship with Nick. Carla becomes suspicious of Tracy, and when Tracy tells her not to keep blaming herself, Carla orders her to get in her car. To Tracy's surprise, Carla takes her to where the minibus crash occurred earlier in the year and expresses that she wishes Tracy had left her to die in the wreckage. She then flips a coin to decide her fate as she drunkenly stands on the edge of the quarry; heads she stands or tails she falls. It lands on tails, so as Carla prepares to throw herself from the cliff, Tracy screams that she was the culprit who started the fire. Carla refuses to believe her, but when Tracy tells her that she saw a photograph of Rob when she lit the candle, Carla realises that she is telling the truth. In pure anger, Carla grabs Tracy and drags her to the edge of the quarry, but Tracy pushes Carla over. Tracy pleads with Carla not to tell anybody, however, Carla is intent on phoning the police and opening an investigation to clear her name, but Tracy says she will deny everything. When Tracy tells Carla that her motive towards the fire was that she was jealous of her and that she still wishes Carla had died in the fire, Carla drives back to the street and the police arrest Tracy. However, Tracy is later released without charge.\n\nNick proposes to Carla and she is shocked to learn that Aidan used his father, Johnny's money to buy into the factory, and thus Johnny and Aidan's sister Kate move to Weatherfield and begin working there. While in prison, Rob begins sending Johnny visiting orders, and reveals that Johnny could potentially be Carla's father. Johnny steals some of Carla's DNA to perform a paternity test behind her back. This reveals that he is Carla's biological father, and decides to break the news to her. Carla is furious and slaps Johnny, and heads for a casino where she bumps into Robert Preston (Tristan Gemmill), and after gambling with him, they have sex. She instantly regrets it, and confides in Michelle, who persuades Carla not to tell Nick. Carla is shocked to find that Robert plans to buy a share in the Bistro. Carla begs him to reconsider, but Robert threatens to reveal their one-night stand if she does not let him buy into the Bistro. Carla finds it increasingly difficult to keep her deceit a secret. Carla tells Nick that she cannot marry him, however after he persuades her, she changes her mind. Upon hearing that Robert is intending on going into business with Nick, Carla goes to the Bistro to confront him. As a powercut has forced the restaurant to close early, Carla and Robert engage in a bitter argument, with their one-night stand being mentioned. Unbeknown to the pair, but Tracy, who has recently reconciled with Robert, has overheard their conversation. Robert then leaves, and Carla drowns her sorrows in alcohol. However, Jamie Bowman (James Atherton), and his friend burst into the restaurant and violently attack Carla, pinning her down on the floor. Tracy, hearing the commotion, leaves Carla to the mercy of the thugs, feeling envious over Carla's liaison with Robert. After realising that there is no money in the restaurant, Jamie grabs Carla's handbag, causing her to fall over. She rises to her feet abruptly and gives chase, jumping into the van, leaving the door wide open, wrestling with the thugs for her handbag. As the van drives out of the street, Jamie pushes Carla out of the vehicle, knocking her unconscious.\n\nMonths later, Tracy begins blackmailing Carla, threatening to tell Nick about her and Robert if she does not persuade Nick to sell the Bistro to Robert and leave Weatherfield. Robert and Leanne both put in matching offers for the Bistro, so Tracy demands £10,000 from Carla. Carla convinces Nick to sell the Bistro to Robert; he does, but Tracy continues taunting Carla. Closer to the wedding, Robert finds out what Tracy has been doing to Carla but they stay together. Nick and Carla break up when he feels guilty after throwing a mug at Carla, causing her to cut her face. They get back together when she supports him. On the wedding day, Tracy tries to ruin proceedings by sending the flowers to the wrong address. Carla feels guilty, so she tells Nick about the one-night stand with Robert; he manages to forgive her. Tracy then announces that she has been blackmailing Carla, which Nick finds more difficult to accept. They eventually marry but Nick instantly regrets it, leaving the venue and Carla in tears. Carla asks Roy to get his car so that she can flee Weatherfield. However, she instead gets in her own car. In front of her, Tracy taunts her and Carla speeds up her car to run Tracy over. Tracy moves but a truck driven by Tyrone Dobbs (Alan Halsall) and his girlfriend Fiz Stape (Jennie McAlpine) comes into her path and she swerves, knocking over Roy's partner, Cathy Matthews (Melanie Hill) before crashing into the postbox. Carla escapes unharmed, but Cathy lies on the ground motionless. Tyrone crashes into the Platt household, but he and Fiz also escape unharmed, with the help from Nick's half-brother David Platt (Jack P. Shepherd). Roy goes with Cathy to hospital and as he is Carla, who is being held back by police, tries to apologise for what she has done. The next day, Carla decides to leave for Devon even though the car crashes are pending investigation. Before leaving, she visits the hospital to see Cathy. Cathy forgives her but Roy finds it more difficult to. She tells Roy she is leaving, but Cathy insists that he reconciles with Carla, however, he declares, \"Carla is who she is, and will never change\". Carla then says an emotional farewell to Johnny, Michelle, Aidan and Kate. Tracy walks out of her florists and Carla declares, \"We're done\". She then gets in Johnny's car to depart. However, a bus comes and Roy dashes over. Johnny stops the car, with Roy and Carla sharing a final farewell. He forgives her for running over Cathy but tells her she should try to love herself. Carla then kisses Roy on the cheek before getting back in the car and leaving Weatherfield for a new life in Devon.\n\nOver a year later, Carla meets Aidan in a pub after he calls for her help in saving Underworld. However, she refuses and leaves, stating that she has a new life now. She returns on Christmas Day, with a great response from her family and Michelle. Carla refuses to drink during the day which is picked up upon numerous times. While visiting she says that she will become a partner in Underworld with Aidan. She later bumps into Tracy who calls her a goblin to which Carla replies, \"just think of me as a Ghost of Christmas Past\". It is declared that she must be up to something when she is seen pouring a drink down the sink in the bathroom as everyone in the pub is singing. Carla invites friend Roy to join her and the family for New Year's Eve in the Rover's Return. Roy wants Carla to tell her family about her kidney failure—she has only shared with him her need for a kidney transplant. Roy has agreed to keep quiet about her condition but says she needs support and must tell them. Carla struggles with her illness and as everyone welcomes in the New Year, she breaks down; Roy witnesses this and asks her to move in with him. She agrees and goes back inside while Roy searches online \"how to donate a kidney\", unbeknownst to Carla. Carla also grows close to Daniel Osbourne (Rob Mallard), Peter and Tracy’s half-brother, upon her return. She clashes with Peter's new partner, Toyah Battersby (Georgia Taylor), who sees her as a threat. Carla, however, refuses to tell her family about her illness, despite numerous advice from Roy. She later collapses in the street and is found by Brian Packham (Peter Gunn) and is rushed to hospital. At the hospital, Roy tells her that he was tested for a kidney match but was not successful, which touched Carla. She decides to listen to him and upon hearing that her situation is getting more critical, she tells Kate and Aidan who both tell her that they will get tested.\n\nOn the day that Aidan and Kate get tested, Carla meets Daniel and they go round to his flat. After they establish a certain spark between them both, they have sex. Afterwards, they leave the flat and kiss on the doorstep which Daniel’s ex Sinead Tinker (Katie McGlynn) witnesses whilst going round to get back with Daniel as he had earlier given her a present. They later meet up for a drink later on in the Rovers Return, whom Peter is now landlord of with Total. Peter tells Carla that he saw them together earlier and it is obvious that Peter is jealous. Whilst there, she meets Aidan who tells her that he has been tested. Peter also talks with Daniel and pesters about what was going on that afternoon. However, Sinead’s aunty Beth Tinker (Lisa George) storms into the pub and argues with Carla about their kiss on the doorstep which everybody hears including Peter who sarcastically comments - “you make a great couple”. The next day, Peter taunts Carla about Daniel suggesting that she is only doing it to get back at him. Carla disagrees by saying, “don’t flatter yourself” and says sarcastically that Toyah is lucky, clearly because he is jealous of Carla. She later meets Daniel again and they go on a date where she orders a bottle of wine - her first alcoholic drink in a while. Aidan and Kate disapprove but she goes ahead and drinks anyway before collapsing which is met by an audience of Tracy who also teases her about Daniel. Carla and Daniel later meet again in the Rovers as both Aidan and Kate find out they are donor matches. After being refused a drink by Peter and Toyah after stumbling to the bar, Carla collapses again as Roy reveals that she has kidney failure to all her family, Peter, Daniel and Toyah. Peter worries about her as she is taken to hospital with disapproval from Toyah. Tracey later finds out and is taken aback as she too has had kidney failure. At the hospital, Aidan agrees to donate his kidney as Carla’s situation becomes even more critical with the doctors saying that she needs a new kidney quick. Aidan is praised by the rest of the family and Carla who thanks him. The next day, Peter visits her in hospital and brings her a book where Daniel already is. Once again, Peter shows jealousy but he and Carla appear to get on with Peter saying that he still cares.\n\nAfter realising that she might die, Carla tells Sinead that Daniel still likes her and that she doesn’t want her last moments to be stealing somebody else’s man. Aidan later has his operation and Carla has a kidney transplant - which are both successful. Afterwards, Carla tells Roy that she is renting out her house in Devon and moving back to Weatherfield for good, much to his delight. Carla later sleeps with Michelle’s biological son Alex Neeson (James Burrows) who was swapped at birth and won’t speak to his mother, after Carla tries to make amends between them. She hides this from Michelle. Carla later gives Aidan 100% of Underworld on his birthday, to which he responds nervously, which leads to Johnny suspecting that he is hiding something. Carla later discovers that Robert, who is now engaged to Michelle, is using steroids. She agrees to not tell Michelle but confides in Ali about it as he is a GP. After asking how Ali is dealing with the situation, Ali tries to kiss Carla and although she refuses at first, they share a more passionate kiss as Michelle walks out on them both. Michelle is extremely angry at Carla and they fall out. Carla then tells Ali that her friendship with Michelle will come first and won’t let him stay the night at Roy’s.\n\nCarla is left distraught when Aidan commits suicide but manages to stay strong and support her family. The day after his death, she reopens the factory which shocks the employees as it is so soon after his death. She continues to run it until Michelle finds Aidan’s will, which reveals he has left it to Alya Nazir, whom Carla doesn’t get on with and would hate for her to own the factory. Michelle and Carla seek legal advice as the will was written before Carla gave 100% of the factory to Aidan and keep it a secret from Alya. In the coming weeks, tension arises between Alya and Carla. She is told that she will have to say that Aidan was mentally unstable when he wrote his will and she later lashes out at Alya causing her to quit her job at Underworld before Carla breaks down and locks herself in her office. She tells Michelle that she feels responsible for Aidan’s suicide as she put pressure on him when giving him the factory. Unknown to Carla, Alya is later given Aidan’s will which shows that she is the sole owner of Underworld. Alya and her lawyer Imran Habeeb (Charlie de Melo) tell the Connor’s that she knows and Johnny finds out about Aidan’s will, telling Carla that he will disown her if she contests it. On the day of Aidan’s funeral, Carla contemplates drinking. Before the service, Alya appears and Carla threatens her. Carla is later furious when Alya changes Underworld’s locks on the same day and storms over to Alya. After calming down, Carla tells her that she can have the 18% as it is what she would’ve had anyway. Despite this, Alya refuses and Carla tells her that she’ll see her in court.\n\nCarla later asks Beth Tinker to get inside information about Underworld in exchange for a rent-free flat. She also gets Peter involved and they go on several dates. He helps the Connor family as they fight Eva Price (Catherine Tyldesley) for custody of Susie Barlow, as he previously believed this was his child. On the day before the mediation, he brings around a birth certificate to prove Eva lied about her parents. Carla is, however, sceptical about showing this as it would get Eva into a lot of trouble. Johnny later kidnaps Susie and Carla supports him. She shouts at Eva in the street when Johnny is arrested. Johnny is, however, later released, and the Connor’s forgive Eva when she leaves. A week later, Peter tells Carla that he thinks there’s still a flame between them but she shouts at him and tells him that he’s stupid. Alya later tells Carla that she is selling the factory in order to fund her family’s restaurant. Initially, it is for 18% less than the price but Alya later puts it up. Alya also gives Carla a video of Aidan doing an interview about being a kidney donor. Carla struggles with finding money for the factory but Peter rescues her by becoming her partner. Carla later breaks down over Aidan’s death saying that she blames herself but Johnny reassures her and later on Carla and Peter meet and end up kissing. The next day, they talk about the kiss and both say it didn’t mean anything, although the factory girls and her family are sceptical about Peter’s motive for helping Carla. Peter later tells Carla that he doesn’t want to be a sleeping partner and that he is to work full time at the factory, shocking her. A few weeks later, Carla and Peter interview new staff for the factory and Carla brings in someone who looks like Tina, to catch Peter out. However, he realises and she is shocked that he doesn’t want to employ her. This makes Carla realise that she might actually have feelings for him as he appears to have changed. The next day, after trying protect Simon from a gang, she witnesses Peter shot and fears that he has died. Luckily, it was only a paint gun but she realises she has feelings for him and confesses to Michelle and is met with a cold response. A few months later, Nick returns and Carla’s feelings for Peter grow stronger. However, she finds out that he is planning to sell his share of the factory although manages to stall him. Unknown to her, Peter finds an application to buy his share from a while back, addressed to Carla and sells his share to Nick, shocking Carla when she is about to tell him about her feelings. At first they struggle to work together but manage as Nick tells a lie to Carla about what he has been up to. Carla, however, knows it’s a lie and after doing some digging finds out that he has a wife, who spots her rummaging through his car. She later confronts her and they talk about Nick. Carla later meets with Nick and blackmails him, telling him that he either sells his share over to her or she tells his wife, Elsa and Leanne, who is now seeing, about the marriage and his relationship.\n\nOn 20 September 2006, it was reported that the former \"Dream Team\" actress, Alison King, had been cast as Carla Connor. A \"Coronation Street\" spokeswoman said of the new addition, \"she will make quite an impact. The phrase ‘dosh doesn’t make you posh’ was made for Carla. She's a WAG on the cobbles, beautiful but tough and ambitious\". King had briefly appeared on the Manchester soap in 2004, as a housewife named Mrs. Fanshaw, who slept with Jason Grimshaw (Ryan Thomas). She later joked \"I was Mrs Fanshaw - or Fanny. What a nightmare!\" \"Metro\" also incorrectly reported she had previously played a character called Milly Webster in 1982, a part that was played by another actress with the same name. She said that she initially found the role difficult, as she \"was uncomfortable playing a constant bitch at first. I'm getting into it now but I'm not as nasty or as cocky as Carla. She's horrible to anyone she perceives to be a rival. I couldn't be like that.\" In November 2010, she admitted her character \"annoys the hell\" out of her, saying \"I would never be her mate in a million years! Carla's a nightmare and annoys the hell out of me. She's the type of person who creates drama wherever she goes, and I'm not like that at all. Plus, she'd probably try to steal my fella!\" She has also said she hates the voice she chose for the character.\n\nIn 2010, she talked of how long she would stay at \"Coronation Street\", and that she had no worries for her career afterwards, saying \"I'll have done four years in Coronation Street in October but because I had more or less a year out it still feels very fresh. I'm certainly in no rush to get out of it. I'm really lucky to be in this job. But I had a great career before I came into the show - 11 years working non-stop. Hopefully I wouldn't be too scared to do a few more silly action films if I could get them under my belt. I'll know when it's time to go but I'm not there yet.\" In January 2012, she said she would not leave soon, and would play Carla until \"I get bored of her.\" In July 2013, King spoke of her future on \"Coronation Street\", saying \"I don't know whether I'll be here forever - I'd love to have a go at different things, like an action drama or love story. But as long as I'm happy in the role and the producers will have me, I'll be staying put for now.\" In October 2014, she said \"I'm happy so long as I'm happy and I'm getting good storylines.\"\n\nIn March 2010, it was reported that Carla's husband Tony Gordon portrayed by Gray O'Brien would escape from prison resulting in Carla being put in grave danger. Robbie Sloan, portrayed by \"Vicar of Dibley\" star James Fleet who is Tony's cellmate and has been bribed to aid the escape. According to \"The Sun\" newspaper: \"Robbie is freed from jail – having been due for release – and meets Carla (Alison King) under the pretence that he is a trader who wants to buy lingerie cheaply. Having arranged a further meeting with Carla on the planned jailbreak day, he returns to visit jail and creates a diversion by sparking a fight with another inmate. As wardens attempt to break up the altercation, Tony feigns a heart attack and is transported to hospital for treatment. However, Robbie is waiting for the ambulance and threatens the guards at gunpoint before securing Tony's escape.\" \n\nIn April 2010, it was revealed that Tony was to hold Carla and Hayley Cropper (Julie Hesmondhalgh) captive at Underworld after escaping from prison. Lured into the factory alone by Robbie's businessman façade, Carla was bound and gagged in a desolate Underworld with Hayley Cropper, who had also been lured to the factory. Tony arrives at the factory, and eventually lets Hayley go free before setting the building on fire. In subsequent scenes, viewers saw Carla untie herself, grab Tony's gun and fire a shot which wounds him. While Carla manages to escape the burning factory, Tony dies in the blaze. Police later examine his body and assume that the bullet killed him. It was later reported that Carla was to be wrongly charged with murder in the storyline following this Carla is later released, however this never happened.\n\nIn July 2010, \"The Sun\" newspaper reported that an upcoming storyline would see Carla face a drinking problem after King was pictured filming a visit to alcoholics anonymous. An insider told the paper: \"She sees Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) at the meeting and backs out, pretending she is meant to be in a Spanish class next door.\"\n\nIn July 2011, it was reported that Carla will drunkenly drive her car into the bookies, injuring Stella in the process. This was the result of further rejections from Peter. A source told \"The Sun\": \"Carla's drinking is out of control again, it's a cry for help – and for love\". The show's producer, Phil Collinson recently teased a storyline seeing Carla's feelings or Peter to arise once again. Collinson said: \"I have to say, it's one of the biggest stories that we've told on Corrie for many years. She's going to have a pretty rough time across the autumn.\"\n\nIn September 2010, it was reported that Carla would fall for Peter. It was reported that pair apparently grow closer as Peter helps Carla overcome her boozing and comes to her aid when she is arrested for drink driving. A source said: \"Carla is feeling vulnerable and Peter is there,\" a source told the paper. \"They soon become more than friends. He's stunned when she tells him she hasn't felt like this about anyone since Liam.\" Carla's best friend Leanne (Jane Danson) who is in a relationship with Peter would tell Carla that she is in love with her ex-husband Nick Tilsley (Ben Price), \"This storyline will really put the cat among the pigeons,\" the source added.\n\nAlison King later told \"Inside Soap\" that she wants Carla's friendship with Peter to develop even further as he helps her to battle an alcohol addiction. King said: \"I think she should definitely gets her claws into Peter. They've got a nice friendship and some good banter going on. They're equals, and I think it's the first time Carla's felt that way with someone since Liam died. They could be a great coupling – but it would turn into a nightmare if they both fell off the wagon.\"\n\nIn June 2011, it was announced that Carla will reportedly be left \"fighting for her life\" after being attacked by her boyfriend. The factory owner, played by Alison King, would be subjected to a physical and sexual assault by Frank Foster after he suspects she is cheating on him with Peter Barlow. Carla will consider leaving Frank prior to the attack, but feels she owes him after he invested in her business and takes the blame for a car accident she is responsible for. The plot was a prominent storyline over the summer and aired after the 9pm watershed during a week of special episodes. Tracy Barlow will offer to give Frank a positive character reference in court, while Peter's marriage to Leanne suffers.\nOn 3 February 2012, \"Coronation Street\" confirmed Frank would be killed off as part of a whodunit storyline. The news came shortly after the episode showing Frank being found not guilty of raping Carla was broadcast. A writer for the official \"Coronation Street\" website said \"Now events will take an even more dramatic turn as tensions rise and vengeance will be on the minds of several characters, climaxing in Frank's death! And with so many residents having a motive for killing the twisted factory boss – the list of suspects reads like a 'Who's Who' of Weatherfield.\" Over the following weeks, Frank manages to alienate himself as he tries to get revenge on Carla for dragging him through court. Lancel said Frank's true colours would be exposed and he does not think his life is in danger for a moment. His body would be found in the factory, following \"days of arguments and confrontations with associates, lovers and enemies alike.\" A reporter for the \"Metro\" later announced that five regular characters would become suspects during the investigation into Frank's murder. Frank would be found dead on the floor of the Underworld factory by Sally Webster. The \"Metro\" reporter said Sally comes under suspicion when she is found standing over Frank's body with bloodied hands. Carla, Peter and Michelle are questioned by the police, while Sally's ex-husband, Kevin, will also fall under suspicion. Lancel praised his character's final storyline, calling it \"classic Corrie\". It was later revealed that Frank's mother, Anne, was the killer during a showdown between her, Carla, Sally and Kevin.\n\nIn March 2012, it was announced that Carla's brother Rob Donovan would be arriving later in the year. Carla had previously mentioned a brother. Speaking of the announcement a \"Coronation Street\" spokesperson said: \"We are seeing lots of different actors over the next week or so. We have got some exciting storylines lined up for Carla's brother. He is a character the fans have been keen to meet for some time\". In May 2012, it was announced that actor Marc Baylis had been cast to play Rob. Speaking of his casting Baylis said: \"I feel incredibly honoured to be joining the very talented cast of Coronation Street. Rob is an exciting character to play and I am hoping he is going to ruffle a few Weatherfield feathers\". Producer Phil Collinson said: \"I'm very pleased to welcome Marc to the cast – the latest in a long line of handsome Corrie charmers. Carla's brother Rob is sure to set hearts fluttering in Weatherfield from the minute he arrives. The audience can expect thrills and a few broken hearts when this handsome bad boy hits town.\" Rob departed in November 2014 and returned later in December 2015 whilst he was in prison for murdering Tina.\n\nIn May 2012, it was reported that Carla would depart with her boyfriend Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) in 2012, for four months. Speaking of her departure King said: \"It's three years since I had a baby and I've been working for all of that time so I haven't been able to spend too much time with my family. I plan to have a nice holiday and spend time at home getting jobs done on the house, all very normal stuff. King insisted that she still enjoys playing Carla and has no plans to depart for good. King's exit scenes aired on 16 July 2012, she returned to filming on 1 October 2012 and was back on screen in December, and shows boss announced that Carla and Peter would return at Christmas with big news.\n\nIn 2015, \"Coronation Street\" introduced three new members of the Connor family, consisting of Aidan Connor (Shayne Ward), Kate Connor (Faye Brookes) and Johnny Connor (Richard Hawley). Producer Stuart Blackburn told \"Digital Spy\" that there would be a real shocker for Carla after she receives news from one of the new Connors. Blackburn commented: \"The Connors are looking great. I think in Aidan, Johnny and Kate, we've really hit gold. One of those characters will deliver a bit of news to Carla that will change her sense of self and perception forever. It's going to be a real shocker.\"\n\nOn 1 May 2015, it was reported that King would be \"taking a break\" in 2016. A \"Coronation Street\" spokeswoman said in a statement released to \"Digital Spy\": \"Alison King has indicated to producers that she would like to take a sabbatical from the show for creative reasons at some point in 2016. She wishes to try her hand at other projects before returning to the part of Carla Connor, a role she has enjoyed playing for nine years. Before Ali takes her break, Carla has much more drama to come. At the end of this month, she will be central to the explosive storyline which sees Victoria Court go up in flames, and the aftermath of that plotline will have huge consequences for the factory boss. Ali's desire to take a break from the show gives the writers the opportunity to come up with an enthralling exit for the character.\" In September 2015, King said in an interview: \"I have just signed till May 2016, there is a lot to do with Carla yet. I haven't had a chance to think about beyond that. On 8 January 2016, it was confirmed that King's departure was in fact permanent. King told \"Metro\": \"It's not actually a break – I'm actually leaving. Because they're leaving the door open, I think people originally called it a break and people are asking 'When are you coming back?' and I'm like 'I'm not'\".\n\nA storyline was created to build up to her departure. A special week aired from 22 May to 26 May alongside the \"Britain's Got Talent\" semi-final just like in previous years. A trailer also accompanied the shows and after each episode a preview of the next episode was shown. The episodes had to be broadcast at 9 pm because of the content within them. Two storylines were put into this week, the wedding and the discovery of Callum Logan's (Sean Ward) body. This involved the Platt family heavily and Carla caused the crash into the house where the body was hidden, finishing the storyline from his murder which had started in September 2015. King filmed her final scenes in April 2016 with them being broadcast on 26 May 2016.\n\nIn August 2017, after numerous rumours earlier in the year, it was officially announced that King would return to her role as Carla Connor in December that year. Co-stars Kym Marsh [Michelle] and Shayne Ward [Aidan] talked of their delight that King was returning, and that they couldn't wait to work with her again. Marsh said of King's return \"I’m extremely excited, I can’t wait – we’ve missed her and she’s missed us. I love Alison King. Me and her have been very close.\" \"Coronation Street\" producer Kate Oates said she would \"break new ground\" with Carla, and doesn’t intend to force the character back into a destructive cycle of misery but will instead reinvigorate her feisty side. Carla Connor's exit storyline had been criticised for making her leave \"powerless and in disgrace.\" Writing in \"Radio Times\" at the time of the character's departure, David Brown criticised her leaving storyline as being \"cruel\" and \"undeserved\", saying \"After all, this is a woman who – during her ten years on screen – has been held hostage, raped, suffered a miscarriage, contemplated suicide and had two husbands die on her,\" commenting that \"we want our soap femme fatales to exit with their heads held high.\" Oates has said that Carla Connor will clash with her best friend Michelle Connor when she returns, saying \"The Carla that we see is very different to the Carla who left the Street a couple of years ago. I really wanted to bring back that feisty side to the character and while it's right that she and Michelle will have some tension ahead, there’s a different – and quite unexpected – story which initially brings her back at the end of the year.\" Oates has stated she would like to keep King in the show for as long as possible. A \"Digital Spy\" article stated that Carla is likely to return as \"the fearless and feisty woman we all fell in love with way back when.\" King returned to filming \"Coronation Street\" on 10 October 2017. On 17 October, Kym Marsh said \"Alison King had her first week back on the Cobbles last week and it was like she's never been away. Everyone's so pleased to have her back. Ali's back sharing a dressing room with me and Faye Brookes. It's temporary as it's a tight squeeze, but it's nice to have a natter while our hair and make-up is being done.\" In September 2017, \"Radio Times\" named King's character Carla Connor as number two in the category \"10 soap characters who refuse to die\", describing how \"if soap characters got a prize for suffering, then Carla would take home the trophy\", citing her surviving almost being burned to death twice, being kidnapped and crashing vehicles. On 20 November 2017, her return was teased when Michelle spoke to her on the phone and the next day, Sharon Marshall confirmed on \"This Morning\" that Carla's return scenes would be broadcast on 22 December 2017.\n\nColumnist Grace Dent has described Carla as \"...an alluring vision, raven haired, classy, sultry and replete with guile\". The episode aired on 3 December 2008, in which Carla married Tony Gordon attracted an impressive peak of 10.5 million viewers.\n\nIn January 2009, the character was heralded as the new Elsie Tanner: \"strong, dark, mouthy, pushy, full of herself and nobody's fool, ready to put the world to rights with another lashing of lipstick. Has \"Coronation Street\" finally found the new Elsie Tanner in Carla Gordon I'm starting to think that perhaps they might have\". The return of the character on 19 October 2009, after an eight-month absence, drew large ratings for the show's episodes which were watched by 9.88m (42.2%) and 10.24m (40.5%) respectively.\n\n\"Radio Times\" soaps columnist David Brown gave mixed comments in his response to Carla's rape storyline. He made the point that while it was being treated with more sensitivity than the rape of Toyah Battersby (Georgia Taylor) was, back in 2001, the impression was that the writing team were placing too much pain and anguish upon Carla's character: \"By having Carla undergo a vicious violation like rape, it begins to feel that she's being systematically targeted by the storyliners. There's no denying that the scenes in this evening's double bill are powerfully acted by Alison King, but there seems to be an underlying mission to crack open Carla's carapace and expose her vulnerability. In the wider world, rapists often choose their targets regardless of the victim's circumstance, so there's no saying that Carla wouldn’t suffer an assault of this sort. But, in a fictional setting, it does begin to look cruel when so much anguish is piled onto one person's shoulders.\"\n\nSarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" said that Carla was great to watch when she is with Peter. She added that they are \"like a car crash waiting to happen\". Her colleague, Laura-Jayne Tyler, called Carla's departure \"thoroughly disappointing\", commenting, \"For a character who has given \"Corrie\" 10 years of top drama, we don't think Carla deserved to be 'slut shamed' out of Weatherfield.\" A reporter writing for the \"Inside Soap Yearbook 2017\" described Carla as a \"soap favourite\" and hoped she would \"hurry home soon\". Another reporter later named Carla and Tracy's feud as one of the \"best bits of February\", describing the pair as \"sworn enemies\". They described Tracy confronting Carla as \"the big moment\" in the episodes. \n\nSince Carla first appeared, she has become a firm favourite by \"Coronation Street\" fans. Although King is not on social media herself, many fan base accounts have been set up on Twitter and Instagram. The character is also amongst many discussions on \"Twitter\" and often finds herself ‘trending’ after an episode. Examples of the fans involvement are such things as when she left in 2016, many people were calling for her return straight after the episode. In 2018 also, when Carla began her feud with Alya Nazir, \"Coronation Street\" put out hashtags with either #TeamAlya or #TeamCarla. Over 1,000 people responded with #TeamCarla and this yet again became a discussion on social media, with many fans criticising the character of Alya just because of her attitude towards Carla. Peter and Carla's relationship also has its own nickname by fans, which is Carter. The #Carter hashtag has been used numerous times since her 2017 return.\n\nIn an online poll conducted by \"MSN Entertainment\", Carla Connor was voted as 'Soapland's Sexiest Female of 2008', with more than 31% of votes. At the 2008 \"Inside Soap Awards\", the character was voted \"Best Bitch\". King was awarded \"Best Actress\" at The British Soap Awards 2012. On Digital Spy's 2012 end of year reader poll, King was nominated for \"Best Female Soap Actor\" and came fifth with 9.7% of the vote. King was nominated for the \"Best Actress\" award at The British Soap Awards 2014, and was nominated for the award again in the 2015 ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "21724873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21724873", "title": "Catherine Clément", "text": "Catherine Clément\n\nCatherine Clément (; born 10 February 1939) is a French philosopher, novelist, feminist, and literary critic, born in Boulogne-Billancourt. She received a degree in philosophy from the prestigious École Normale Supérieure, and studied under such luminaries as Claude Lévi-Strauss and Jacques Lacan, working in the fields of anthropology and psychoanalysis. A member of the school of French feminism and écriture féminine, she has published books with Hélène Cixous and Julia Kristeva.\n\nShe lived many years overseas, as her husband, (1934-2012), was a diplomat who was France's Ambassador to India, Austria, Guinea, Gambia and Senegal.\n\n\ndernière édition entièrement remaniée Le Livre de poche, « Biblio essais », 1985\n\"Le Divan et le Grigri\" + Tobie Nathan, Odile Jacob, 1998\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7331196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7331196", "title": "Chamorro (family)", "text": "Chamorro (family)\n\nThe Chamorro family has its origin in Spain. A branch of the family became prominent in Nicaragua in the 18th century and its influence continues to the present. Historically, the Chamorros have been closely associated with the Conservatives, but the Sandinista Revolution has divided their loyalties, with some members supporting the Sandinistas. Outstanding members of this family are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32263934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32263934", "title": "Christy Essien-Igbokwe", "text": "Christy Essien-Igbokwe\n\nChristy Uduak Essien-Igbokwe MFR (11 November 1960 – 30 June 2011) was a Nigerian musician and actress. In her life time, she was sometimes called \"Nigeria's Lady of Songs\" and was known for her song \"Seun Rere\". She was the first female president of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN). She was also the chairwoman and managing director of Soul Train entertainment limited.\n\nEssien-Igbokwe sang her songs in Igbo, Ibibio, Efik, Hausa, Yoruba as well as in English. Essien's fluency in Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba, English and her native Ibibio earned her an appeal which cut across tribal lines. She died in an undisclosed hospital in Lagos.\n\nEssien-Igbokwe was born in Okat, Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria. She lost her mother at the age of 12 and her father in 2005. Growing up she lived in Aba, Abia State with her late mother's friend who encouraged her singing career and bought her a fairly used cassette player to record her songs.\n\nEssien-Igbokwe began her musical career in Secondary School singing at various clubs such as Uka Onu's Club and Unikoko in Aba, Abia State. She featured on a programme called 'Now Sound' on the Nigerian Television Authority Channel 6, Aba . During that time, a show called 'The New Masquerade' was also airing on the same station . During a taping of one of the show's episodes, she corrected a cast member who rehearsed his lines incorrectly, thereafter she was offered a role in the series. In 1976 she joined the cast of 'The New Masquerade'and played the role of Akpenor, the wife of the cantankerous character, Jegede Sokoya (played by Claude Eke).Her role on that popular show put her in the limelight and in 1977 she launched a professional music career by releasing her debut album called 'Freedom'. Many of her albums became hit records, but none came close to the success of her 1981 hit album 'Ever Liked My Person' produced by Lemmy Jackson.\n\nAlways at the forefront of issues affecting women and children, she played roles in some of the early Nollywood flicks such as 'Flesh and Blood' and 'Scars of Womanhood', both of which addressed issues of child abuse and female circumcision. With a desire to make life better for Nigerian artists,she is credited as having initiated the first meeting that brought about the formation of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria in 1981. A year later, the association was founded and King Sunny Adé became the president with the late Sonny Okosun serving as his vice, while she was the national treasurer. Between 1996 and 1999, she became the first female president of the association. The Akwa Ibom born performer featured in many national and international shows and also had the honour of composing and performing what would later be known as her state's informal anthem, \"Akwa Ibom Mmi (My Akwa Ibom)\" in 1987, its year of creation. She operated a shop in Etinan, her native town in Akwa Ibom State where she sold industrial printing machines.\n\nShe got married in October 1979 to Chief Edwin Chukwunenye Igbokwe the then managing director of Punch Newspapers, till her time of death she remained married with four male children. They are Mr Obiora Chukwuemeka Igbokwe, Mr Chinwuba Kenechukwu Kaka Igbokwe, Mr Solomon Chukwukadibia Olubunmi Igbokwe and Mr Lucky Samuel Azubueze Igbokwe. Her grand Children are Miss Elizabeth Uduak Igbokwe, Miss Christiana Chizaramekpeleamaka Ijeoma Igboke and Master David Igbokwe\n\n\n\n\n\nHer Charity programmes dated back to 1980 when she started championing the cause of the less privileged in our society especially the Nigerian Child. This is also evidenced in her works such as:\nIn fact Royalty from the sales of her past albums remains directed towards charity projects and the needy in our society.\n\n\n\n\nClose to the time of her death, she was involved in private business, running the non-governmental organisation \"Essential Child Care Foundation\" involved in child welfare needs and rights as well. Her recent public outings include the Inspire Africa Benefit Concert in January 2009, where she performed alongside her son Kaka and the MTN Musical Festival, a musical show of old and new-breed musicians in 2009.\n\nHer second son, Kaka is also towing the music line. He is a hip hop artiste and producer. One of her earliest albums 'Ever Liked my Person' sold above platinum till date. So popular was one of its hit songs 'Seun Rere', that a number of African countries have sung their own version. The singer intended to spend the day with the less-privileged children as she has always done over the years.\nEssien-Igbokwe died on 30 June 2011 after a brief illness.\n\nEssien-Igbokwe won several awards throughout her career including Nigerian lady of songs award which she received in 1984, Africa music mother award 1984, International special achievement award in Mexico in 1983, world song festival award, Los Angeles, queen of music international award association of theatre arts practitioners in Lagos in 1996 and outstanding achievement in female uplifting. She also contributed enormously to nation building, peace and tolerance – which, alongside moral uprightness, remain constant themes of her songs.\n\nOn November 11, 2018, Google recognized her with a doodle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3459805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3459805", "title": "Clement Quartey", "text": "Clement Quartey\n\nClement Isaac \"Ike\" Quartey is a former Ghanaian boxer and Ghana's first Olympic medalist. He won the silver medal in the men's Light Welterweight (63.5 kg) category at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy.\n\nBetter known as \"Isaac\" or \"Ike\", he was born April 12, 1938 in Accra, Ghana. Clement is an older brother of former welterweight champion Ike Quartey. He not only won a medal at the Olympics, but he also won a gold medal at the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games held in Perth, Australia.(born April 12, 1938 in Accra)\n\nOlympic games results\n1960 (as a Light welterweight)\n"}
{"id": "239365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239365", "title": "David Chaum", "text": "David Chaum\n\nDavid Lee Chaum (born 1955) is an American computer scientist and cryptographer. He is famous for developing ecash, an electronic cash application that aims to preserve a user’s anonymity. He has also invented many cryptographic protocols and founded DigiCash, an electronic money corporation. His 1981 paper, \"Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital Pseudonyms\", laid the groundwork for the field of anonymous communications research.\n\nChaum gained a doctorate in computer science and business administration from the University of California, Berkeley in 1982. Also that year, he founded the International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR), which currently organizes academic conferences in cryptography research. Subsequently, he taught at the New York University Graduate School of Business Administration and at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB). He also formed a cryptography research group at the National Research Institute for Mathematics and Computer Science (CWI) in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. He founded DigiCash, an electronic cash company, in 1990.\n\nChaum received the Information Technology European Award for 1995. In 2004, he was named an IACR Fellow. In 2010, he received during the RSA Conference the RSA Award for Excellence in Mathematics.\n\nChaum is credited as the inventor of secure digital cash for his 1982 paper, which also introduced the cryptographic primitive of a blind signature. These ideas have been described as the technical roots of the vision of the Cypherpunk movement that began in the late 1980s. Chaum's proposal allowed users to obtain digital currency from a bank and spend it in a manner that is untraceable by the bank or any other party. In 1988, he extended this idea (with Amos Fiat and Moni Naor) to allow offline transactions that enable detection of double-spending.\n\nIn 1990, he founded DigiCash, an electronic cash company, in Amsterdam to commercialize the ideas in his research. The first electronic payment was sent in 1994. In 1999, Chaum left the company.\n\nIn the same 1982 paper that proposed digital cash, Chaum introduced blind signatures. This form of digital signature blinds the content of a message before it is signed, so that the signer cannot determine the content. The resulting blind signature can be publicly verified against the original, unblinded message in the manner of a regular digital signature.\n\nIn 1989, he (with Hans van Antwerpen) introduced undeniable signatures. This form of digital signature uses a verification process that is interactive, so that the signatory can limit who can verify the signature. Since signers may refuse to participate in the verification process, signatures are considered valid unless a signer specifically uses a disavowal protocol to prove that a given signature was not authentic.\n\nIn 1991, he (with Eugene van Heyst) introduced group signatures, which allow a member of a group to anonymously sign a message on behalf of the entire group. However an appointed group manager holds the power to revoke the anonymity of any signer in the case of disputes.\n\nIn 1981, Chaum proposed the idea of an anonymous communication network in a paper. His proposal, called mix networks, allows a group of senders to submit an encryption of a message and its recipient to a server. Once the server has a batch of messages, it will reorder and obfuscate the messages so that only this server knows which message came from which sender. The batch is then forwarded to another server who does the same process. Eventually, the messages reach the final server where they are fully decrypted and delivered to the recipient. A mechanism to allow return messages is also proposed. Mix networks are the basis of some remailers and are the conceptual ancestor to modern anonymous web browsing tools like Tor (based on onion routing). Chaum has advocated that every router be made, effectively, a Tor node.\n\nIn 1988, Chaum introduced a different type of anonymous communication system called a DC-Net, which is a solution to his proposed Dining Cryptographers Problem. DC-Nets is the basis of the software tool Dissent.\n\nChaum has made numerous contributions to secure voting systems, including the first proposal of a system that is end-to-end verifiable. This proposal, made in 1981, was given as an application of mix networks. In this system, the individual ballots of voters were kept private which anyone could verify that the tally was counted correctly. This, and other early cryptographic voting systems, assumed that voters could reliably compute values with their personal computers. In 1991, Chaum introduced SureVote which allowed voters to cast a ballot from an untrustworthy voting system, proposing a process now called \"code voting\" and used in remote voting systems like Remotegrity.\n\nIn 1994, Chaum introduced the first in-person voting system in which voters cast ballots electronically at a polling station and cryptographically verify that the DRE did not modify their vote (or even learn what it was). In the following years, Chaum proposed (often with others) a series a cryptographically verifiable voting systems that use conventional paper ballots: Pret a Voter, Punchscan, and Scantegrity. The city of Takoma Park, Maryland used Scantegrity for its November, 2009 election. This was the first time a public sector election was run using any cryptographically verifiable voting system.\n\nIn 2011, Chaum proposed Random Sample Elections. This electoral system allows a verifiably random selection of voters, who can maintain their anonymity, to cast votes on behalf the entire electorate.\n\nA near eye display patent application authored by David Chaum has been updated. \n\"PERSPECTIVA - All styles of eyeglasses can be upgraded to overlay, anywhere you can see through them, digital imagary that is of unbeatable quality.\" \"Invented then founded and led an effort that has demonstrated feasibility of a new paradigm for delivering light that digitally deconstructs images so that they can be reconstructed on the retina with dynamic focus and exquisite clarity.\" This augmented reality technology seems similar to Magic Leap, Hololens, and Oculus.\n\nIn 1979, Chaum proposed a mechanism for splitting a key into partial keys, a predecessor to secret sharing.\n\nIn 1985, Chaum proposed the original anonymous credential system, which is sometimes also referred to as a pseudonym system. This stems from the fact that the credentials of such a system are obtained from and shown to organizations using different pseudonyms which cannot be linked.\n\nIn 1988, Chaum with Gilles Brassard and Claude Crepeau published a paper that introduced zero-knowledge arguments, as well as a security model using information-theoretic private-channels, and also first formalized the concept of a commitment scheme.\n\n1991, with Torben Pedersen, he demonstrated a well-cited zero-knowledge proof of a DDH tuple. This proof is particularly useful as it can prove proper reencryption of an Elgamal ciphertext.\n\nChaum contributed to an important commitment scheme which is often attributed to Pedersen. In fact, Pedersen, in his 1991 paper, cites a rump session talk on an unpublished paper by Jurjen Bos and Chaum for the scheme. It appeared even earlier in a paper by Chaum, Damgard, and Jeroen van de Graaf. The scheme is widely used as it is a simple perfectly hiding commitment, that is binding assuming the hardness of the discrete logarithm problem.\n\nIn 1993 with Stefan Brands, Chaum introduced the concept of a distance-bounding protocol. Using round-trip delay based on the speed of light, it allows one party to establish an upper-bound on the physical distance from another in an authenticated way.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5984893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5984893", "title": "Deuter", "text": "Deuter\n\nDeuter (born Georg Deuter, 1945) is a German new age instrumentalist and recording artist known for his ersatz style that blends Eastern and Western musical elements.\n\nBorn in 1945 in post-war Germany in the town of Falkenhagen, Deuter taught himself the guitar, flute, harmonica and \"just about every instrument I could get my hands on,\" though it wasn’t until after a near-fatal car crash in his early twenties that he decided to pursue a career in music. His first release in 1971, titled \"D\", is widely acknowledged as a Krautrock classic. \"D\" marked the beginning of Deuter's spiritual and musical journey, ostensibly paving the way for a new genre of music known as New Age, which combined acoustic and electronic elements with ethnic instrumentation and nature sounds, such as whale and bird song, the open sea, wind in the trees, etc.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s Deuter, after travelling extensively in Asia in search of spiritual and creative inspiration, settled for a long time in Pune, India, where under the name \"Chaitanya Hari\" he became a neo-sannyasin — a disciple of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, who later changed his name to Osho. With the aid of a multitrack tape machine, living in the neo-sannyas ashram, he produced a series of music tapes to be used in \"active meditations\", consisting of several \"stages\" of ten or fifteen minutes each, which range between, and often merge, Indian classical motifs, fiery drums, loops, synthesisers, bells, musique concrète and pastoral acoustic passages. These works were constructed to the master's instructions in consultation with a team of disciples testing the meditation methods.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Deuter — who always retained his professional name — ended his long standing relationship with Kuckuck, the small record label that had released nearly 20 original Deuter albums in as many years, and relocated to Santa Fe, New Mexico where he signed a deal with New Earth Records, an independent label founded by fellow sannyasins Bhikkhu Schober and Waduda Paradiso. This proved to be a lucrative move for all involved, as Deuter's New Earth Records releases, the majority of them intended to accompany various healing and spiritual practices such as Reiki, massage and meditation or, in the case of \"Earth Blue\" (2003), a collaboration with the Autostadt Volkswagen factory in Wolfsburg, Germany, have sold well over half a million copies.\n\nDeuter has learned (and arguably mastered) an ever-expanding array of instruments, including the drums, the shakuhachi flute, the koto, sitar, Tibetan singing bowls, santoor, bouzouki, piano and keyboard. He has recorded and released over 60 albums and claims to have sold more than he can count during the course of his career.\n\nIn 2016, Deuter's 2015 album \"Illumination of the Heart\" was voted among the top finalists for Album of the Year and Best Meditation/Relaxation Album by broadcasters and industry experts at Zone Music Reporter. In addition, Deuter received Zone Music Reporter's Lifetime Achievement Award, recognizing his 40 years and more than 60 recordings of musical contribution to the New Age genre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5858644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858644", "title": "Edwin O. LeGrand", "text": "Edwin O. LeGrand\n\nAlthough Edwin Oswald LeGrand (1801–1861) was born in North Carolina, he was an original Texan. LeGrand was one of the fifty-seven men who signed the Texas Declaration of Independence. He was a San Augustine delegate to the Convention of 1836 at Washington-on-the-Brazos and fought in the Battle of San Jacinto. His sister, Mrs. William Colson Norwood, and her family also settled in San Augustine, Texas. LeGrand is buried near San Augustine.\n\n"}
{"id": "34294835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34294835", "title": "Fastron-Metro TV Europe Asia Expedition", "text": "Fastron-Metro TV Europe Asia Expedition\n\nFastron-Metro TV Europe Asia Expedition is an Indonesian expedition team who travel around the world by surface using 4x4 vehicles. The trip across the 15 countries started from Indonesia to Venice Italy. The five-month journey traces the Silk Road trade route that crosses the continent of Asia to Europe.\n\n\nFrom Indonesia they crossed 15 countries:\n\nIn the first episode the team start the trip from Indonesia to Malaysia. Preparing the vehicle is shown, then sending the vehicle by sea, until the team remove the vehicle from the port of Port Klang Malaysia.\n\nThe team go to Melaka, which is a place located in the coastal area of Malaysia where there are buildings or Portuguese, Dutch, and English heritage.\n\nAfter Melaka, the four-car team continue the journey to Penang. Before reaching Penang, Tim takes time to stop at Bukit Jugra, a place known for paragliding sport. The team try flying from the hills here.\n\nThey enter Thailand which is hit by massive flooding and see how the Thai people fight against the disaster.\n\nAfter Malaysia and Thailand, the team in episode travel to the former French colony of Laos.\n\nBuddhism is the religion of the majority of Laos.\n\nThe team go to Batuxay Park and see buildings that resemble temples, one is Wat Si Saket Museum. Wat Si Saket Temple was built in 1819-1824 during the reign of King Anouvong, the last ruler Tiane Vien.\n\nThe team then continued on to Luang Prabang.\n\nAfter three days journey from the border, the team arrived at the People's Republic of China. The team stopped at the city of Chengdu, an industrial city in China. Although Chengdu is an industrial city, many historic buildings are well maintained. .\n\nThe expedition continues into China and spends 19 days there. After passing through the borders of Kirgizstan, the expedition continues toy to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Iran, and Turkey.\n\nAfter traveling over 27,000 kilometers, the team arrives in Italy, the goal of the expedition.\n\nThe team used four 4x4 Toyota Fortuner vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "32515072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32515072", "title": "Ferdinand Sinaga", "text": "Ferdinand Sinaga\n\nFerdinand Alfred Sinaga (born 18 September 1988) is an Indonesian professional footballer who currently plays for Indonesian Liga 1 club PSM Makassar and the Indonesia national team. He plays mainly as a striker but can also play as a winger.\n\nIn March 2014, Sinaga was banned for two matches by the Football Association of Indonesia for excessively cursing at a referee in a match against Semen Padang on 16 February 2014. He missed Persib's next matches against PS Barito Putera and Arema Cronus. In addition to the ban, he was also fined 25 million rupiahs for his behavior.\n\nOn 10 June 2014, Sinaga scored a spectacular bicycle kick in a 3–1 win over PS Barito Putera. He juggled the ball twice from a corner kick before unleashing an unstoppable overhead kick into the net.\n\nSinaga played in the 2014 Indonesia Super League Final against Persipura Jayapura. Although he did not manage to score in normal time, Sinaga netted the second penalty for Persib in the 5–3 penalty shootout win.\n\nOn 30 November 2014, he was signed by Sriwijaya.\n\nOn 4 January 2018, Sinaga signed a one-year contract with Malaysian Malaysia Super League side Kelantan. He made his league debut for Kelantan FA in 2–1 defeat to Melaka United on 3 February 2018. On 19 March 2018, Sinaga has been released from Kelantan and returned to Indonesian club PSM Makassar.\n\nSinaga has played for Indonesia at youth and senior level. Sinaga has played in 2011 Southeast Asian Games where his side lost with a penalty kick against Malaysia in the final. Sinaga also has represented Indonesia U-23 at 2014 Asian Games in South Korea. He has scored 6 goals during that tournament.\n\nSinaga was first capped for senior team on 27 August 2011 in a 0–1 friendly defeat against Jordan at the Amman International Stadium, Amman coming off the bench for Cristian Gonzáles.\n\nSinaga is a devout Catholic who often celebrates goals by making the sign of the cross. Sinaga was born to Samson Sinaga, a bus driver, and Risnalu Turnip. He is married to Aghie Veronicca and they have two children named Fabio and Fabian Sinaga. Sinaga has more than eleven tattoos on his body, mostly on his arm and torso. Among his tattoos are the name of his wife and child, Catholic prayers, Virgin Mary and a Christian cross.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26092502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26092502", "title": "George Chapman (healer)", "text": "George Chapman (healer)\n\nGeorge Chapman (4 February 1921 – 9 August 2006) was an English medium and spiritual healer. Active for 60 years, he was a medium for the spirit of \"Dr. Lang\", who conducted \"spirit operations\" on patients.\n\nChapman was born in Bootle, near Liverpool on 4 February 1921, and was brought up by his maternal grandparents after the early death of his mother. After leaving school he took up various manual occupations, became a professional boxer, and, during World War II, served in the Irish Guards and the RAF. He joined the \"Aylesbury Fire Brigade\" after being demobbed, a post he held until 1956.\n\nChapman married Margaret May Dickinson and they had a daughter, Vivian, in 1945, who survived only 4 weeks. The couple were devastated by her premature death, but claimed to have received \"spirit messages\" from her through the use of a ouija board.\n\nChapman worked as a medium, it was alleged he channeled spirit guides with names such \"Ram-a-din-i\" and \"Chang Woo\". His main spirit guide was a doctor called William Lang (1852-1937) who had been an ophthalmic surgeon at London's Middlesex Hospital up until 1914.\n\nGeorge Chapman died on 9 August 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "44057732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44057732", "title": "Ghwarath ibn al-Harith", "text": "Ghwarath ibn al-Harith\n\nGhwarath ibn al-Harith also known as Du'thar ibn al-Harith was a companion (Sahaba) of Muhammad. He was the first person to try and assassinate Muhammad during the Invasion of Dhi Amr. \n\nAccording to Muslim scholar Sami Strauch, it is reported in Sahih Bukhari that it was raining, and Muhammad took his garments off and hung them on a tree to dry. While the enemy was watching, Ghwarath ibn al-Harith went to attack Muhammad. He threatened Muhammad with his sword and said \"who will protect you from me on this day\". Then, according to Muslim scholars, the Angel Gabriel appeared, thumped Ghawrath in the chest and forced him to drop his sword. Muhammad then picked up the sword and said \"who will protect you from me\".\n\nSahih al Bukhari mentions this incident:\n\n"}
{"id": "14715178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14715178", "title": "Gilbert DesRoches", "text": "Gilbert DesRoches\n\nGilbert DesRoches (23 or 24 July 1848 – 2 June 1915) was a merchant, farmer and political figure in Prince Edward Island. He represented 5th Prince in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island from 1899 to 1900.\n\nHe was born on 23 or 24 July 1848 in Miscouche, Prince Edward Island, the son of Jean DesRoches and Nanette Poirier, Acadians. In 1873, he married Sophie Poirier. He learned the trade of making shoes but then went into business with his brother-in-law, Joseph Poirier, in 1876. In 1880, he established his own business in Miscouche, building a store and grain storehouse. DesRoches also exported lobsters and Malpeque oysters. He served as local postmaster and, for a time, operated a construction business. In 1880, he attended the Convention Nationale des Canadiens Français at Quebec City and he helped organized the Second Acadian National Convention which was held in Miscouche in 1884. Desroches ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the provincial assembly in 1890 and 1893; he was elected in an 1899 by-election held after Alfred Lefurgey resigned his seat to run for a seat in the House of Commons. He was defeated in the 1900 general election. DesRoches died in Miscouche in 1915 after a long illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "58004595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004595", "title": "Gladys Ngetich", "text": "Gladys Ngetich\n\nGladys Chepkirui Ngetich (born c.1991) is a Kenyan engineer, and a Rhodes scholar pursuing a doctorate degree in aerospace engineering at the University of Oxford, in the United Kingdom. She is the recipient of the Tanenbaum Fellowship and the Babaroa Excellence Award.\n\nNgetich was born in \"Amalo Village\", in Nakuru County circa 1991. She attended \"Lelaibei Primary School\", in Olenguruone. She studied at Mercy Girls' Secondary School in Kericho. She was admitted to the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, graduating with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering, in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Ngetich joined the University of Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship to pursue a doctoral degree in Aerospace Engineering. In 2016, she earned a Tanenbaum Fellowship, an annual fellowship awarded to Rhodes scholars for a multifaceted program in Israel. In 2018, Ngetich was named a Skoll World Forum Fellow for the work she is doing in Kenya to empower girls and women. Gladys tutors engineering undergraduate students at Oriel College, in Oxford.\n\nIn 2018, Ngetich was credited with a patent in collaboration with Rolls-Royce Plc. Her research work has been in \"BBC Science\" and the \"Oxford Science Blog and Medium\". She received the ASME IGTI Young Engineer Turbo Expo Participation Award, for her paper at the 2018 Annual American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) conference.\n\nGladys is the co-founder of the ILUU, a Nairobi-based non-profit that aims to inspire girls and women.\n\nIn September 2018, Business Daily Africa, a Kenyan, English language, daily newspaper, named Gladys Ngitech, among the \"Top 40 Under 40 Women in Kenya in 2018\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5130907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5130907", "title": "Hans Van Themsche", "text": "Hans Van Themsche\n\nHans Van Themsche (born 7 February 1988 in Wilrijk, Antwerp, Flemish Region of Belgium) was a Belgian student who in 2006 shot three people, killing two and severely injuring another, before being shot by police and incapacitated. He was sentenced to life in prison in 2008.\n\nThe homicide received widespread media attention and drew major public and political attention to responsibilities regarding political presentation of immigrant and racial issues and its possible effects on individuals.\n\nVan Themsche had been caught smoking at his boarding school on 9 May 2006, and was facing likely expulsion.\n\nHe travelled from Roeselare to Antwerp where, on the morning of the eleventh, he had his long hair cut and shaven off (apart from a ponytail) before legally purchasing a Marlin 336W hunting rifle in .30-30 Winchester and ammunition from a local weapons merchant. About ten minutes before noon, dressed in a Gothic fashion, he began his rampage in the city centre with a shot in the breast of a woman of Turkish descent who was seated six metres away on a bench reading a book; Songul Koç was severely wounded. He chambered another round and passed a pregnant Malian nanny, Oulemata Niangadou, and her two-year-old European charge, Luna Drowart. He turned and shot each of them in the back at close range, killing both instantly. While he moved on (presumably looking for more victims) Van Themsche was intercepted by a passing police officer, who held him at gunpoint and ordered him to surrender the rifle. After Van Themsche's refusal to put his weapon down and upon a suspicious movement, the officer fired once, neutralizing him with a shot to the stomach. Later on, Van Themsche's father would comment: \"In my eyes, the policeman who shot down my son is a hero. I'm glad the man had so much courage, or else even more victims would have fallen.\"\n\nVan Themsche, while being treated in hospital, described himself as a skinhead and admitted to police – as he had before the murders to boarding school friends – to specifically targeting non-whites. Of the 2-year old (white) child, Van Themsche said she was \"in the wrong place at the wrong time\". Her death, however, was not incidental, since he had to chamber a new round before each shot. He told his interrogators \"the presence near a black was sufficient reason\" to kill the toddler. According to his statement, his reason for targeting minorities was that youths of foreign descent used to bully him at school; that would have been at least three years earlier. A farewell letter found in his room – as he may not have expected to survive – did not declare the premeditated murderous intent to which he confessed but did reveal that he wanted to take action against self-perceived \"chaos in society\".\n\nAt trial, the defense lawyers argued that Van Themsche suffered from Asperger Syndrome and narcissistic personality disorder and was therefore insane. On 11 October, a jury of 12 citizens found Van Themsche guilty on all charges pressed against him, including the murder of Oulemata Niangadou and Luna Drowart. They also judged that the murders were motivated by racism. The next day, the jury and the three professional judges of the Court of Assize sentenced him to life imprisonment. The Court of Cassation rejected Van Themsche's appeal in February 2008. By June 2009, civil lawsuits at Antwerp had recognized a total of nearly 325,000 euro for damages to victims' families and Songul Koç whom he had caused a permanent professional disability of 55 percent; further treatment costs would add to his dues.\n\nThe King and the Prime Minister reacted within hours: Albert II sent a message to the victims' families; the Royal Palace press service explicitly reminded on the King's well-known perspective on racism and violence to have been illuminated in his January speech before the several Institutions of the country. Guy Verhofstadt was quoted as saying: \"These horrific, cowardly murders are a form of extreme racism. It should be clear to everyone now where extreme right can lead to.\" The president of the European Parliament, Josep Borrell, noted that the succession of attacks \"shows that the step from xenophobic talk to crime is, unfortunately, possible\".\n\nThough the Antwerp public prosecutors said \"on first investigation of his environment and family [Hans] seems not to be brought up in a racialist or violent setting\" and the family became described as \"well-behaved\" and as having an \"impeccable Flemish-nationalist pedigree\" — the fact that the gunman's aunt, Frieda Van Themsche, was a member of parliament for the large far right party with anti-immigrant rhetoric Vlaams Belang, immediately brought press attention to the murderer's family background. In World War II, the twin brothers Van Themsche voluntarily fought on the side of their country's occupier, Nazi Germany, in Waffen SS uniform against the Soviets on the Eastern Front, costing one brother's life and Hans' grandfather Karel a leg; in the sixties he joined the Volksunie, in 1978 following Karel Dillen into its hard right split-off Vlaams Blok. Also his children Frieda and Peter, who would about ten years later father Hans, were earliest day members and became militants.\n\nOn 12 April, Vlaams Belang MP Alexandra Colen's husband Paul Beliën, named a Vlaams Belang ideologist and a publicist, reportedly had called upon the Flemish people to get rid of people of Arab origin in a pamphlet titled 'Give us weapons'. That title referred to a 1963 –then obviously figurative– outcry refutedly ascribed to the later Prime Minister Martens that was related to disputes between Belgian speakers of Dutch and of French. Beliën withdrew his text upon an official complaint by the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Fight against Racism (CEOFR or CGKR).\n\nPublic debate targeted the Vlaams Belang party with claims that it was partly morally responsible for the murderous shooting at Antwerp. In addition to their decade-long calls for a tighter immigration policy – including in its previous incarnation as the Vlaams Blok, the removal of Belgian citizens of foreign ethnicity – this party is in favour of armed self-defence; except for its principle public figure, Filip Dewinter, who has specifically distanced himself from this notion in the aftermath of this murder spree. One month before the latter on the other hand, he had published: \"We've had enough of serving as autochthonous chased game. Instead of going through life as \"scaredy-hares\", we should rather become \"foresters\".\" The used Dutch term for a scaredy-cat refers to the often hunted animal, for a forester to a patrol officer often against poachers and then typically armed with a shotgun (and possibly the less easily perceived 9 mm semiautomatic handgun).\n\n, a political scientist at Ghent University, reportedly stated: \"It's intellectually unfair to blame the act of a lunatic on a political party, whatever his family ties to the Vlaams Belang, but the VB is responsible for creating an atmosphere and popularizing the theme of racial tension.\"\n\nIn a press release on 12 May, the Belgian Movement against Racism, Anti-Semitism, and Xenophobia (MRAX) stated: \"This violence does not come from nowhere. It is the result of years of ambiguous or openly racist discourse, which aims to make 'foreigners' responsible for individual frustrations and social misery\" and questioned Belgium's continued public financing of political parties such as Vlaams Belang, which, according to MRAX, encouraged the stigmatization of ethnic minorities in Belgium. Four days later the European Network Against Racism cited that press release and added \"Europe must act to address the reality of racism in its societies\".\n\nFour days after the murder, Flanders' main commercial TV station VTM conducted a poll among 700 Flemings, concerning the political consequences of the murders:\n\nOn 18 May, the political parties Socialist Party - Different, Spirit, Socialist Party, Reformist Movement and Humanist Democratic Centre filed a complaint against Vlaams Belang with the Belgian Council of State, attempting to decrease the party's state funding (dotation).\n\nThe family of Luna denounced a letter of sympathy from Vlaams Belang, and asked to be left in peace until after the funeral. The African nanny was buried in Mali, repatriated at the expense of the city of Antwerp. After Luna's funeral, her parents' advocate asked Vlaams Belang to withdraw a campaign banner that displays a little blond girl, reminding them too much of their daughter, \"additionally because the child's killer comes precisely from that environment.\" A spokesman for Vlaams Belang responded that the party already at its Monday management meeting had decided to remove the banner.\n\nA week after the killings, the polling site De Stemmenkampioen asked its panel: \"Is there a connection between the murders committed by Hans Van Themsche and Vlaams Belang?\", with response 36% yes, 59% no, 5% unsure.\n\nOn 19 May on Canvas TV, foreign minister Karel De Gucht held \"not only the extreme right Vlaams Belang party\" but \"also the voters of this party\" responsible \"for the climate of racism\" in which the murders took place.\n\nMayor Patrick Janssens and several hundred locals followed the family of Oulemata Niangadou and representatives of African and Turkish organisations in a silent march towards the spots of the shootings on the morning thereafter. Amongst speeches held, the president of the city's Council for the Policy regarding Ethnical and Cultural Minorities, Georges Kamanayo, accused \"the leaders of extreme right parties\" of moral complicity.\nAn impromptu peaceful protest against Vlaams Belang organized on 15 May at Brussels held the traditional minute of silence for Van Themsche's victims.\n\nDuring the night of 16–17 May 2006, a Molotov cocktail was thrown into the head office of the Flemish nationalist youth organisation Vlaams Nationaal Jeugdverbond (VNJ) in Berchem that has links to the Vlaams Belang. A Turkish courier could quickly extinguish the fire, especially as the apartment above the office was inhabited (as it turned out, by the mother of New Flemish Alliance (N-VA) president Bart De Wever).\n\nIn the wake of the murders, the government tried to take action against Flemish entries on websites where it judged hate and racism to be spread, such as Stormfront. This proved difficult, because the sites are American and protected by the First Amendment.\n\nThe case expedited a law that halted the possibility of buying lethal firearms of all kind on impulse and making the licensing almost strictest in the world.\n\nIn July 2007, a municipal decree came in effect that forbids the display of weapons in Antwerp shop windows. The Governor of the Province rejected the appeal filed by arms dealer Lang, who had sold Van Themsche the murder weapon.\n\nOn 10 May 2008, the Standaard Uitgeverij published justice reporter Gust Verwerft's book \"De Zaak Hans Van Themsche\" (\"The Case of Hans Van Themsche\") ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2995472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2995472", "title": "Hibagon", "text": "Hibagon\n\nThe or is the Japanese equivalent of the North American Bigfoot or the Himalayan Yeti. Sightings have been reported since the 1970s around Mount Hiba in the Hiroshima Prefecture.\n\nThe Hibagon is described as a \"black creature with white hands and large white feet, standing about five feet tall.\", and has been said to resemble a gorilla.\n\"The Hibagon has a large nose, large deep glaring eyes and is covered with bristles. Theories to account for this cryptid range from a gorilla, a wild man, or a deserter from the Japanese chefs, to an individual ravaged by atomic radiation from the nuclear attack on Hiroshima.\" \n\nA sighting from 1972 reports that the creature \"has a chocolate brown face and is covered with brown hair ... [and] is said to have 'deep glaring eyes', in two reports by a Mr. Sazawa and a Mrs. Harada, the creature took no hostile action and fled from four armed residents intent on hunting it.\"\n\nJapanese Boy Scouts, \"claim to find footprints 25 cm (10 in) long and 15 cm (6 in) wide.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273766", "title": "Increase Mather", "text": "Increase Mather\n\nIncrease Mather (1639-1723) was a powerful Puritan clergyman in the Massachusetts Bay Colony and was president of Harvard College for twenty years (1681-1701). He was influential in the administration of the colony during a time that coincided with the notorious Salem witch trials. \n\nMather was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts Bay Colony, on June 21, 1639 to the Rev. Richard Mather and Kathrine Holt Mather, following their participation in the Great Migration from England due to their nonconformity to the Church of England. \n\nHe was the youngest of six brothers, the others being Samuel, Nathaniel, Eleazar, Joseph, and Timothy. Samuel, Nathaniel and Eleazar also became ministers.\n\nIn 1651 Mather was admitted to Harvard College, where he roomed with and studied under Robert Massey. When he graduated in 1656, aged 17, with a B.A., he began to train for the ministry, and gave his first sermon on his 18th birthday. He quickly left Massachusetts and went to Ireland, where he studied at Trinity College, Dublin for an M.A. During his time at Trinity College he was licensed as a Commonwealth Minister by Oliver Cromwell to the joint charge of St Tida's Church (Ballyscullion), and St Swithan's Church (Magherafelt). He graduated in 1658, and worked as a chaplain attached to a garrison in the Channel Islands from 1659 to 1661 with a short stint at a church in Gloucester in 1660. \n\nAfter Cromwell's death in 1658, Mather felt less secure in his post in the Channel Islands due to Charles II's return to the throne. He resigned the position in 1660 and sailed for Boston in 1661. Harvard later awarded Mather the first honorary degree in the New World, becoming a Doctor of Sacred Theology, in 1692.\nIn 1661, with the advent of the English Restoration and resurgence of Anglicanism, Increase returned to Massachusetts, where he married Maria Cotton. She was his step-sister by virtue of his father's marriage to Sarah Hankredge, widow of John Cotton and mother of Maria. She gave birth to Cotton Mather in 1663. In 1676, he published \"A Brief History of the War with the Indians in New-England\", a contemporary account of King Philip's War.\n\nHe was ordained as minister of the North Church, He held this post until he died. \n\nIn his Autobiography, Increase Mather writes that he was President of Harvard, from 1681 until 1701, but due to charter and organizational changes, his official title varied. On June 11, 1685, he was made Acting President and on July 23, 1686, he was appointed Rector. On June 27, 1692, he finished writing the new college charter and became president. On September 5, 1692, while the Salem trials were still ongoing, Increase Mather was awarded a doctorate of divinity, the first doctorate issued at Harvard, and the last for 79 years. \n\nHe was rarely present on campus or in the town, especially during his term of Rector as he was out of the Colony for all but two years of his term in that office. Despite his absences he did make some changes: re-implementation of Greek and Hebrew instruction, replacement of classical Roman authors with Biblical and Christian authors in ethics classes, enactment of requirements that students attend classes regularly, live and eat on campus, and that seniors not haze other students.\n\nWhile politics and Puritan religion were closely related during Increase's lifetime, his first direct involvement with politics occurred as a result of James II of England's manipulation of the New England governments. In 1686 James revoked the Charter of Massachusetts in the process of creating the Dominion of New England.\n\nThe Dominion was headed by Edmund Andros, who not only disliked puritanism and was haughty, but ruled as a near absolute dictator: Town meetings were outlawed, leaving the Dominion without consent of the governed, marriage was removed from the clergy, and the Old South Church was temporarily appropriated for Anglican services.\n\nThe 1687 Declaration of Indulgence, prohibiting discrimination against Catholics, saw staunch opposition from the Puritan establishment. When Mather successfully roused opposition to revocation of the charter, he was nearly framed for treason. He traveled to London (eluding spies out to catch him) to petition the King. While engaged in petitioning he published pieces to build popular support for his positions, such as \"A Narrative of the Miseries of New-England, By Reason of an Arbitrary Government Erected there Under Sir Edmund Andros\" (1688) and \"A Brief Relation for the Confirmation of Charter Privileges\" (1691).\n\nHe attempted to restore the old charter and obtain a royal charter for Harvard; however, he abandoned that course and changed his petitions to a new charter not lacking any of the rights previously granted. Following the Glorious Revolution and subsequent overthrow of Andros, a new charter was granted to the colony. The 1692 charter was a major departure from its predecessor, granting sweeping home rule, establishing an elective legislature, enfranchising all freeholders (previously only men admitted to a congregation could vote), and uniting the Massachusetts Bay Colony and Plymouth Colony. Following Andros' deposition and arrest, he had William Phips appointed as Royal Governor and they returned to Massachusetts, arriving on May 14, 1692. Following his return, the administration of Harvard grew increasingly insistent that he reside nearer to the institution. Not wanting to leave his Second Church, he did not do so, and eventually resigned the Presidency.\n\nIn 1681, the same year he became president of Harvard (and when his son Cotton Mather was only eighteen year old), Increase Mather began work on a manuscript that was to be a collection of \"illustrious providences\" and he solicited contributions from the other Puritan ministers. This work demonstrated a belated interest in witchcraft relative to the European continent, where witch trials had gone into a steep decline after reaching \"peak intensity during the century 1570-1670\" but this reflected a similar belated interest among a certain milieu in London around the same time. Increase Mather's book \"Remarkable Providences\" was published in 1684 and forwards a doctrinal belief in the real power of witchcraft. One of the more curious aspects of the book is that while it cites numerous Reformation theologians (Luther, Beza, Melancthon) and many well-known writers on witchcraft including the notorious witch-hunting manual written by a Dominican inquisitor, Malleus Maleficarum, it does not cite Jean Calvin. \n\nIn November 1692 he published \"Cases of Conscience Concerning Evil Spirits\" which defended the judges and trials, but also expressed words of caution, perhaps due to public pressure. In the postscript, included with the initial first edition of the book, he mentions his own attendance at the trial of George Burroughs and his agreement with the capitol judgement against him. George Burroughs had been a fellow minister who seems to have substituted at the pulpit for Increase Mather on at least one occasion. Like his work from 1684, this 1692 work also cites Malleus Maleficarum. \n\nNotwithstanding this, his reputation was not improved afterwards or for posterity due to his association with the trials as well as his subsequent refusal, for whatever reasons, to denounce them. He was also briefly mentioned in a thorough treatment of his son Cotton by Robert Calef in his comprehensive book of the Salem Trials and their aftermath, \"More Wonders of the Invisible World\" (referred to as \"More Wonders of the Spiritual World\" by the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition). Increase Mather was said to have burned Calef's book in Harvard Yard.\n\nIn 1715, following the death of his wife Maria the previous year, he married Ann Cotton, widow of his nephew John. \n\nOn September 27, 1722, he fainted and was thereafter bedridden. In August 1723 he suffered bladder failure and died three weeks later on August 23, 1723, in Boston, aged 84. He was buried on Copp's Hill. \n\nBefore his death, he took lodging at the retreat of Mineral Spring Pond to recover from his illness and drink from the famous healing waters of the springs from Spring Pond.\n\nThroughout his life Mather was a staunch Puritan, opposing anything openly contradictory to, mutually exclusive with, or potentially \"distracting\" from his religious beliefs. He supported suppression of intoxication, unnecessary effort on Sundays and ostentatious clothing. He was initially opposed to the Half-Way Covenant but later supported it. He firmly believed in the direct appearance of God's disfavor in everyday life, e.g. the weather, political situations, attacks by Native Americans, fires and floods, etc.\n\nHe was strenuous in attempting to keep people to his idea of morality, making strong use of jeremiads to try to prevent indifference and especially to try to get government officials to enforce public morality. During his tenure at Harvard he regularly stamped out any relaxation of Puritan strictness, such as latitudinarianism, which had flourished during his overseas absence.\n\nFollowing his acceptance of the Covenant, Solomon Stoddard and others attempted to further liberalize Puritanism by baptism of children who had nonmember parents and admittance of all but the openly immoral to services. To try and stop this, Mather had a synod called to outlaw similar measures. A declaration was adopted, but never made binding. \n\nThe stated reason for his first name was \"...the never-to-be-forgotten increase, of every sort, wherewith God favoured the country about the time of his nativity.\" The name \"Increase\" is a literal translation of the Hebrew \"Yosëf\" (Joseph).\n\nIncrease Mather is played by Stephen Lang in the 2014 TV series \"Salem\".\n\nA portrait of Increase Mather hangs in the Middle Common Room of Mansfield College, Oxford.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5072564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5072564", "title": "Jack Davis (industrialist)", "text": "Jack Davis (industrialist)\n\nJohn \"Jack\" Davis (born 1933) is an American industrialist and perennial candidate from Newstead, New York. Davis ran four times for New York's 26th congressional district seat in the U.S. House of Representatives between 2004 and 2011, three times as a Democrat (twice as the general election candidate against incumbent Tom Reynolds and a third time in a three-way primary) and once as an independent.\n\nDavis's primary motive for his political campaigns is his concern that the country is being destroyed by U.S. free trade policies which he says have led to the outsourcing of jobs to foreign countries and the decline of manufacturing in the United States. Noted for his party-switching, Davis has said that had he won the 2011 election, he would have caucused in the House with the Republican and Tea Party caucuses.\n\nA lifelong Republican, Davis switched to the Democrats after being kicked out of a fundraiser headlined by Dick Cheney in 2003 when he tried to ask Cheney questions about free trade policies. He then ran for the U.S. Congress seat in his home district, NY-26, in 2004, 2006 and 2008 as a self-funded candidate, pouring in millions of his own funds and coming close to beating the incumbent Republican Thomas Reynolds in 2006. In the 2008 election, however, he came in third out of three in the Democratic primary. He switched his affiliation back to Republican with the election of fellow wealthy industrialist Chris Lee, becoming an ally and supporter of Lee. After Lee's abrupt departure from Congress in February 2011 Davis tried and failed to get the Republican nomination to replace Lee, then decided to run as an independent on a newly created Tea Party line.\n\nDavis is the founder and owner of I Squared R Element Company, an Akron, New York manufacturer and seller of heating elements for high temperature furnaces, and has never outsourced jobs. He is also known for filing a successful lawsuit against the Federal Election Commission in 2006, claiming that the so-called \"millionaire's amendment\" to McCain-Feingold Act was unconstitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court, with Justice Alito writing for the 5–4 majority, sided with Davis, striking down the millionaire's amendment as violating the First Amendment to the United States Constitution for fundamentally restricting the right of a self-financing candidate to spend his or her own money in a preferred way.\n\nDavis' early years were spent in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; he moved with his family to Buffalo, New York after World War II. His father was an engineer, and Davis discovered early on that he liked working on cars with his father and building things. He graduated from Amherst Central High School in 1951. He enrolled in the University of Buffalo, where he majored in industrial engineering and received his degree in 1955. Davis would later fund the construction of UB's Davis Hall, which bears his name.\n\nDavis completed Marine Corps Officer Training as a reservist while in college, and served three years as an officer in the U.S. Coast Guard upon graduation. He began work as an engineer in 1958, first at General Motors as a maintenance engineer, then at The Carborundum Company as a supervising sales engineer.\n\nHe started his silicon carbide heating element manufacturing business, I Squared R Element, in 1964 in a garage, and now employs 75 people in Akron, New York who receive employer provided health care and pension benefits. He has touted the fact that he has never outsourced any jobs. According to 2011 financial disclosure statements, Davis' net worth is between $18.2 million and $83.4 million (about half that of his opponent Jane Corwin).\n\nDavis was a self-described \"Goldwater Republican\" for 50 years. In late 2003, he attended a Republican fundraiser in Buffalo, featuring Vice President Dick Cheney. Davis insisted on talking to Cheney about U.S. free trade policies, which Cheney's staff refused to allow, ordering Davis to be ejected from the fundraiser. Davis then quit the Republican party. He later became a Democrat (2003), then founded the Save Jobs Party (2004–05), then rejoined the Republican Party (2008), and in March 2011 created the Tea Party ballot line by obtaining the required number of signatures.\n\nIn 2004 and 2006 Davis ran as a Democrat in the general elections facing no primary challengers. He lost both times to incumbent Republican Tom Reynolds, described by the \"New York Times\" as one of the most powerful Republicans in Congress. In the 2008 race, Davis finished third place in a three-way Democratic primary to Alice Kryzan. In the ongoing 2011 election, Davis, who has been a registered Republican since 2008, is now s running on the \"Tea Party\" line. He has said he is running again because of his concern that the country is being destroyed.\n\nA major theme of Davis' campaigns is that too many U.S. manufacturing jobs have been outsourced to foreign countries, with 53,000 manufacturing plants closed in the past 30 years and 17 million Americans presently unemployed. He believes U.S. free trade policies and agreements have caused the job loss and the great recession. He says the free trade policies have been pushed by multinational corporations and big box stores such as Walmart who effectively have purchased the White House and the U.S. Congress. Davis says he is free of those influences, and wants to go to Washington to save American jobs, farms and industries.\n\nIn 2004, Davis officially entered politics, running as a Democrat for the U.S. Congress from the 26th District of New York against incumbent Republican Representative Tom Reynolds, who was considered unbeatable. Davis doubled his original financial commitment to the race, pouring a total of $1.2 million of personal money into his campaign. Reynolds was forced to begin running campaign ads for the first time since his election in 1998.\n\nOn election day, Reynolds won, 56 percent to 44 percent; in contrast, he won the 2002 election 75 percent to 25 percent against the Democratic challenger. Many cite the amount spent by Davis as compared to Reynolds' prior challenger as the primary factor for the change. Some observers attributed the narrowed margin of victory to an undercurrent of resentment in the working-class areas of the 26th district over economic decline and a lack of manufacturing sector jobs. Others attributed the margin to the politics of the specific candidates; Reynolds' politics more closely resembling big-government neo-conservatism while Davis' more closely resembles the limited-government libertarian conservatism of Goldwater, the type of conservative thought more widely adhered to in Upstate New York.\n\nAfter the election, Davis was fined for a violation of campaign finance reporting laws. Davis had used his non-profit \"Save Jobs\" organization to funnel money into his political efforts, failing to comply with political disclosure requirements of both the federal government and New York State.\n\nFollowing his defeat in 2004, Davis continued his political activism by forming the Save Jobs Party to further his goals of repealing free-trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). Davis believed that free-trade allowed low-wage nations, such as China to compete unfairly with American-produced manufactured goods and agricultural crops. Davis believed that this would be a popular idea in his native Upstate New York, which contained many struggling farms and factories. Although Republicans accused him of using the party merely as a springboard for a 2006 rematch against Reynolds, Davis sponsored more than a dozen candidates for public office in races across Western New York.\n\nHowever, the Save Jobs party soon ran into trouble with state and federal officials. In one incident, an Erie County legislator sought an FBI investigation over\nlast-minute automated phone calls (robocalls] that had been made from Davis's campaign headquarters. In early 2006, Davis' state PAC was sued in State Supreme Court for improper filing of financial disclosures. Davis abandoned the fledgling party.\n\nDavis ran against Reynolds as the candidate of the Democratic, Working Families and Independence Parties in 2006. Davis received the Democratic nomination since no other Democrat chose to run in the September 12, 2006 primary. He appeared on three ballot lines and votes from all three nominating parties counted towards Davis' total under New York's electoral fusion rule. As in 2004, Reynolds won, but by a much narrower margin.\n\nWith the Mark Foley scandal in full swing, pundits re-evaluated the odds of Davis winning against Reynolds. It was widely reported that Reynolds had knowledge of earlier e-mails between Foley and a page, although he was unaware of more explicit instant messages reported by ABC News.\n\nDavis led Reynolds in several polls taken during October 2006, but an early November poll showed him trailing 46 to 50. He lost by a \"hair's breadth\", according to \"The Washington Post\".\n\nAfter Reynolds announced his retirement from Congress in 2008, Davis ran a third time for the seat. He began as the odds-on favorite to win the Democratic Party nomination but he faced stiff competition from Iraq War veteran and teacher Jon Powers. Democrats viewed Powers as their strongest candidate, and blamed Davis' attack ads for taking him out in the primary. Powers finished second, Davis third, with little-known environmental attorney Alice Kryzan winning the primary. She lost the general election to Republican Christopher J. Lee 55–40 percent.\n\nDavis filed a successful lawsuit against the Federal Election Commission between his 2006 and 2008 runs for office, claiming that the so-called \"millionaires amendment\" to the McCain-Feingold Act election reform law was unconstitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court, with Justice Alito writing for the 5–4 majority, struck down parts of the act as violating the First Amendment for fundamentally restricting the right of a self-financing candidate to spend his or her own money in a preferred way.\n\nDavis changed his political affiliation from Democratic back to Republican in 2010, after developing a favorable working relationship with Chris Lee over the course of Lee's time in office. He expressed interest in the special election to replace Lee, who resigned in February 2011. Davis met with the Republican chairs regarding a possible run, but according to Davis, the meeting \"didn't go great\". The Party was dissatisfied with his brief time in the Democratic Party and his willingness to run on a third-party line if he didn't get the Republican nomination, according to the \"Lockport Union-Sun & Journal\". A GOP county chair told \"The Buffalo News\" that Davis had disqualified himself by expressing views that were contrary to typical Republican positions. The Republican nomination went to Jane Corwin. Davis also had discussions with Erie County Conservative Party chairman Ralph Lorigo regarding a potential run on that line, but after Corwin received Republican nomination, the other two parties put her on their ballot lines.\n\nFinally, Davis briefly, but unsuccessfully courted the Democrats for their nomination, then decided to run on a newly created independent line, under the name \"Tea,\" sending out paid campaign workers to collect the 3,500 required signatures for a ballot listing (Davis's campaign workers collected over 12,000 signatures in total). He received the endorsement of the Tea Party Coalition of New York, but his Republican opponent Corwin got the endorsements of TEA New York and the Tea Party Express. Davis has said that if elected, he will caucus with the Republicans and Tea Party caucus because his opinions and positions align more closely with those groups than with the Democrats. The Tea Party Coalition is an organization run by Libertarian Party activists James Ostrowski and Allen Coniglio, who use the name \"Tea Party\" for the ballot line on which they run their independent candidates; Ostrowski and Coniglio previously had used the line for David DiPietro in a state senate race and Janice Volk in a congressional special election in another district prior to Davis using the line.\n\nDavis' ideology is \"too inconsistent to be readily categorized\", according to the \"Washington Post\". When asked about the issue of illegal immigration during his interview for the Republican endorsement in 2011, Davis reportedly shocked local Republican leaders by suggesting that illegal immigrants could be deported and unemployed black youth bussed from the cities to pick the crops. Davis' spokesperson said the comments could be viewed as politically and racially incorrect; \"but when you have African American people in Buffalo who do not have jobs and are out of work, why are you bringing people into this country illegally to take jobs?\" he asked.\n\nDavis' main issue is his opposition to free-trade policies and agreements which he believes have allowed low-wage nations, such as the People's Republic of China, to compete unfairly with American-produced manufactured goods and agricultural crops.\n\nDavis been described as favoring gun rights, and has said that his position on the Second Amendment rights is similar to that of other members of the Tea Party movement. He has given inconsistent answers on the issue of abortion rights. Davis opposes the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and also opposed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.\n\nThe special election was initially thought to be a \"certain victory\" for the Republican candidate, but became \"fiercely competitive\", according to \"The New York Times\", because of a U.S. House Republican plan to privatize Medicare. The Times also cited the third party candidacy of Davis as a factor which is \"siphoning support\" from Corwin.\n\nA late April poll by Sienna College had Corwin in the lead with 36 percent, followed by Hochul with 31 percent and Davis with 23 percent of the vote. An early May poll by the Democratic-leaning Public Policy Institute showed Hochul at 35 percent, Corwin at 31 percent and Davis at 24 percent. An unusual number of voters had a negative opinion of each candidate, according to the pollster: Hochul, 42 percent for Corwin and 43 percent for Davis.\n\nNational media attention was given to a 15-second video clip that appeared to show Corwin's Assembly chief of staff, Michael Mallia, repeatedly asking Davis why he had skipped a campaign debate, followed by Mallia yelping as Davis apparently shoved him or flapped at the camera. The video clip was circulated by local and national Republican organizations and prompted bipartisan criticism of both Davis and Mallia. Requests to see a longer tape and a tape made by second camera were refused by Corwin and her campaign. In response to Davis' complaints that he had been harassed, Corwin said, \"I've had cameras on me for two months now, and I've never hit anybody ... and I think that's the difference is how you handle a situation like that.\"\n\nThe Tea Party Express and TEA New York which endorsed Corwin traveled to Rochester and Buffalo to hold events where they criticized Davis' use of the Tea Party name. After the election, TEA New York blamed Davis for Hochul's win.\n\n\"Roll Call\" reported that Davis had promised to spend as much as $3 million of his own funds and that Corwin had invested nearly $2.5 million of her own funds in the campaign as of May 13. \"Roll Call\" also said that outside funds coming from both liberal and conservative groups had \"turned the Buffalo and Rochester airwaves into a steady stream of campaign ads.\" Davis, in contrast to his opponents, received no assistance from outside funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6689696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689696", "title": "Jamsrangiin Tseveen", "text": "Jamsrangiin Tseveen\n\nJamsrangiin Tseveen (; ; often romanized to Jamtsarano), (1880 - May 14, 1942) was a Buryat scholar and one of the leading figures in Mongolian politics and especially academia in the 1920s.\n\nTseveen was born in the Aginsk district of Transbaikalia in 1880. He went to school in Chita and later to Badmaev's Buryat private school in St. Petersburg. From 1898 to 1902, he attended the Teacher's seminary in Irkutsk, where he began to visit neighbouring Buryat clans and to collect epics and materials related to shamanism, and Mongol law.\n\nIn 1902 he and his friend Baradin returned to St. Petersburg and became auditors at the St. Petersburg University. A professor arranged for them to travel to Buryatia in 1903 to collect more material. Tseveen went to the northwest Baikal area and Olkhon island, and his work proved successful enough to earn him more research trips over the next years, sponsored by the Russian Committee for the Investigation of Central and Eastern Asia. In 1904 he travelled to Urga and home to Aginsk, in 1905 and 1906 he again travelled to Transbaikalia and Outer Mongolia. From 1907 to 1908 he taught Mongolian at the St. Petersburg University's Faculty of Oriental Languages. In 1909 and 1910 travelled to Inner Mongolia and the Ordos area. In 1911, he travelled to the Tungus at the upper Onon river, and in 1912 he took part in archeological studies at Erdene Zuu, the former site of Karakorum.\n\nAfter Mongolia had declared independence in 1911, Russia had sent a special envoy to Urga, Ivan Yakovlevich Korostovets. Korostovets planned the creation of a newspaper and the establishment of a secular school under Russian sponsorship, and offered Tseveen to edit the newspaper and supervise the school, both of which Tseveen accepted. In the following years, besides the work at school and the \"Shine toli\" ('New Mirror') and \"Niislel Khüreenii sonin bichig\" newspapers, he continued academic work and also translated some popular texts into Mongolian.\n\nAfter Outer Mongolia had been occupied by Chinese troops in 1919, Tseveen became a professor at the Irkutsk University. He published articles on Mongolian law, but also travelled around Verkhneudinsk, Kyakhta and Maimaichen, where he met with discontented Outer Mongolians. At the founding congress of the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party in 1921, Tseveen got the task of writing the Ten Aspirations, the party's platform. After Urga had been liberated from Baron Ungern's troops in the same year, Tseveen founded the Institute of Scriptures and Manuscripts (\"Sudar Bichgiyn Hüreelen\"), forerunner of the Mongolian Academy of Sciences. A library was established, and in 1924 a museum was opened. In 1925 he travelled to Leningrad, and in 1926 he married Badmajab Tsedenovna, who was also a Buryat from Aginsk. In the same year, both travelled to Beiping. His wife travelled to Germany and France in 1927 as part of an official mission, but Tseveen remained in Ulaanbaatar.\n\nIn 1932, Tseveen was dismissed and exiled to Leningrad, where he again worked at the Institute of Oriental Studies of the University under Prof. Nicholas Poppe and edited the milestone \"Mongol chronicles of the XVIIth century\". He was arrested in 1937, convicted to five years imprisonment on February 19, 1940, and died on May 14, 1942 in Sol-Iletsk prison (Orenburg). Details were released by the Russian government in 1993.\n\nOne of his many interests was research into cryptozoological organisms like the Yeti or the Mongolian Death Worm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36353424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36353424", "title": "Jaroslav Šabata", "text": "Jaroslav Šabata\n\nJaroslav Šabata (2 November 1927 – 14 June 2012) was a Czech political scientist, psychologist, and dissident during Czechoslovakia's Communist era. A leading dissident based in Brno, Šabata was a signatory of Charter 77 in 1977. He served as the spokesman of Charter 77, the organization named for the document, from 1978 to 1981.\n\nSabata was born in Dolenice, South Moravian Region, Czechoslovakia, on 2 November 1927. He taught psychology at present-day Masaryk University throughout the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nŠabata joined the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in the aftermath of World War II. He became a prominent government supporter of the Prague Spring in 1968. He left the party in 1969, soon after the Prague Spring was crushed by the Soviets, and resigned from his political positions. He founded Communists in Opposition, a dissident group, during the early 1970s. He was twice jailed for his opposition to the government as a political prisoner for a total of seven years: The first from 1971 to 1976, after founding Communists in Opposition, and again from 1978 to 1981, after signing Charter 77.\n\nHe was a signatory of the Charter 77 manifest and served as the groups spokesperson from 1978 to 1981, even as he was imprisoned during the same years.\n\nŠabata re-entered politics after the 1989 Velvet Revolution and the Fall of Communism in Czechoslovakia. He represented the Civic Forum (OF), a Czechoslovak anti-authoritarian movement formed during the Velvet Revolution. He was elected as a deputy to the Federal Assembly of Czechoslovakia, which continued to exist until the county's dissolution in 1993. He also served as a Minister Without Portfolio in the government of Czech Republic Prime Minister Petr Pithart, another Charter 77 signer, within the Civic Forum from 1990 to 1992. (The Czech Republic was still an internal region within Czechoslovakia during this time)\n\nFollowing the Dissolution of Czechoslovakia, Šabata became a member and foreign policy adviser to the Czech Social Democratic Party.\n\nJaroslav Šabata died in Brno, Czech Republic, on 14 June 2012, at the age of 84.\n"}
{"id": "8753169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8753169", "title": "Jean D'Espagnet", "text": "Jean D'Espagnet\n\nJean d'Espagnet (1564 – c. 1637) was a French Renaissance polymath. He was a lawyer and politician, a mathematician and alchemist, an antiquarian, poet and friend of French literati.\n\nD'Espagnet was a counsellor in the Parlement of Bordeaux and its president from the years 1600 to 1611. In this position he was involved, with Pierre de Lancre, in witch-hunting in Labourd. D'Espagnet contributed to de Lancre's 1607 work on witchcraft.\n\nHis son Étienne d'Espagnet utilised his father's library and designed optics for astronomy.\n\nJean D'Espagnet is known to have owned several books that had previously formed part of Montaigne's library, including his copy of De rerum natura, in which his signature overwrites that of Montaigne's on the title-page. In 1623 D'Espagnet wrote \"Arcanum Hermeticae philosophiae\" and \"Enchiridion physicae restitutae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13272378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13272378", "title": "John Richards (Salem witch trials)", "text": "John Richards (Salem witch trials)\n\nJohn Richards (died April 2, 1694) was a colonial military officer, businessman, politician, and magistrate, best known for his participation in the Salem witch trials in 1692.\n\nJohn Richards was born in England, and traveled with his parents in 1630 to North America as part of the first major wave of migration to the Massachusetts Bay Colony. In 1644 Ricards was enrolled in the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company, which he would remain involved with for the rest of his life. A resident of Dorchester for most of his life, he operated a mill, and frequently served as on the colony's general court (as its assembly was known). \n\nThe colony did not have a residency requirement, and he usually represented communities (such as Hadley that were distant from Boston, where the assembly met. In 1679 and 1680, however, he was chosen to represent Boston, and was elected speaker in 1680. From 1680-84 he served as one of the colony's assistants, whose council served as the upper body of the assembly and as the colony's highest court.\n\nIn 1681 Richards was appointed along with Joseph Dudley to represent the colony in London in an attempt to address royal concerns over the colony's administration. King Charles II had, upon his restoration, insisted that the colony exhibit more religious tolerance and adhere more closely to the Navigation Acts, both of which the colony's hardline administration had resisted doing. Richards and Dudley were unsuccessful in their negotiations with the Lords of Trade, because the colonial government had specifically denied them authority to agree to changes in the colonial charter. Richards was of the opinion that the colonial government should acquiesce to the crown demands, and was consequently voted from office in 1684. That year, the colonial charter was revoked.\n\nIn 1686 the Dominion of New England was established, with Joseph Dudley as its first governor, and Sir Edmund Andros as its second. He served as a judge under Dudley's brief administration, but was apparently opposed to Andros' unpopular rule, in which he played no part. The dominion was overturned in 1689 when Andros and Dudley were arrested in the wake of the Glorious Revolution. The old colonial administration was restored, and Richards was once again made an assistant.\n\nIn 1692 Sir William Phips arrived in the colony bearing the new charter for the Province of Massachusetts Bay, and a commission as governor. Phips' arrival occurred during the height of a witchcraft scare in the Salem area of Essex County. Phips created a Special Court of Oyer and Terminer, to which Richards was appointed. This court oversaw the conviction and execution of nineteen individuals in the infamous Salem witch trials.\n\nWhen the Superior Court of Judicature was formed as the province's high court, Richards was also appointed to it. This court disposed of a great many more witchcraft cases, acquitting many; its witchcraft-related convictions in 1693 were vacated by Governor Phips.\n\nHe died, reportedly from a fit of apoplexy, in Boston on April 2, 1694. He had married Ann Winthrop, the widowed daughter-in-law of founder John Winthrop; they had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "30987899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30987899", "title": "Kantarawadi", "text": "Kantarawadi\n\nKantarawadi ()(), also known as Gantarawadi, was one of the Karenni States in what is today Kayah State in Burma. It was also known as \"Eastern Karenni\" owing to the location of part of its territory east of the Salween River.\n\nAccording to local tradition in the early times of the Karenni states there was a principality led by a \"Sawphya\" that was under the overlordship of a Shan prince. This state finally became independent in the 18th century. In the 19th century the Karenni state was divided into five principalities \"(sawphyas)\".\n\nIn 1864 a Karenni prince requested the status of British protectorate for his state, but the British authorities did not show any interest. After the death of this prince in 1869 his two sons renewed the petition claiming that they feared Burmese ambitions on their state. \nThe British refused again, but agreed to arbitrate before the King of Burma. Since the Burmese monarchy insisted in their demands on the Karenni territories, the British granted recognition to four states, Kyebogyi, Namekan (Nammekon), Naungpale and Bawlake, which became independent under British protection on 21 June 1875. Kantarawadi state, however, remained independent without official protection. Kantarawadi was heavily fined in 1888 for the disturbances caused by Myoza Sao Law Paw (Sawlapaw). After his successor Sao Lawi agreed to pay a tribure of Rs 5,000 to the British government, he was granted the title of \"Saopha\". \n\nIn November the same year the government of Siam tried to establish its territorial rights over the eastern tract of land in Kantarawadi. Following the expedition against the Red Karens in the Karenni area the Anglo-Siamese Boundary Commission of 1892-93 would be set up in order to resolve the disputes about the territory the Siamese had occupied on the eastern side of the Salween as well as the Trans-Salween territories that had been handed over to the Saopha of Mong Pan State to which Siam also laid claim. \n\nIn 1942, the Imperial Japanese Army accompanied by the Thai Phayap Army invaded the Federated Shan States from Thailand. The defense of the Shan States had been left to the Nationalist Chinese forces, upon the request of the British. The 93rd Division of the Chinese Army defended the Keng Tung, while the 249th and 55th Divisions guarded from the Kengtung to Karenni States along the Thai border. The Japanese forces with superior air power went on to dislodge the Nationalist Chinese forces by November 1942. The IJA allowed the Phayap Army to occupy all of Kengtung State and the four trans-Salween districts of Möng Tang, Möng Hang, Möng Kyawt and Möng Hta of Mongpan State. Following the existing agreement between Thai Prime Minister Plaek Phibunsongkhram (Phibun) and the Japanese Empire, on 18 August 1943, the Japanese government agreed to the Thai annexation of Kengtung and part of Mongpan state (as well as the annexation of Kelantan, Trengganu, Kedah, Perlis states and nearby islands in Malaya.) The Thai government wanted the two districts of Möngmaü and Mehsakun of Mawkmai of the southern Shan states as well as part of Kantarawadi, all located east of the Salween River, but the Japanese assigned them to their client State of Burma in September 1943.\n\nFollowing the defeat and surrender of the Japanese Empire, Thailand left the territories it had annexed to the north in 1945. However, the Thai government officially relinquished its claim over Kantarawadi State only in 1946 as part of the condition for admission to the United Nations and the withdrawal of all wartime sanctions for having sided with the Axis powers.\n\nThe rulers of Kantarawadi bore the title of \"Saopha\" after 1903.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24771207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24771207", "title": "Klaus Kinski filmography", "text": "Klaus Kinski filmography\n\nKlaus Kinski (1926 – 1991) was a German actor who appeared in more than 130 films. \n\n\n\n\n\nKinski released nearly 25 spoken word records, some of which were re-released on CDs.\n\n"}
{"id": "49884441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49884441", "title": "List of Wikipedia people", "text": "List of Wikipedia people\n\nThe list of Wikipedia people includes notable editors, founders and functionaries of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21423247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21423247", "title": "List of people from Gilan", "text": "List of people from Gilan\n\nThese people have been born, died or have spent time in Gilan province, Iran as residence.\n"}
{"id": "4224411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4224411", "title": "Lock-Up (TV series)", "text": "Lock-Up (TV series)\n\nLock-Up is an American crime drama series that premiered in syndication in September 1959 and concluded in June 1961. The half-hour episodes had little time for character development or subplots and presented a compact story without embellishment.\n\nThe program stars Macdonald Carey as real-life Philadelphia corporate attorney Herbert L. Maris and John Doucette as police detective Lieutenant Jim Weston.\n\nEach episode began with the following introduction: \"These stories are based on the files and case histories of Herbert L. Maris, prominent attorney, who has devoted his life to saving the innocent.\"\n\nThe foundation of each episode is the cornerstone of English and American jurisprudence: a person charged with a crime is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. The series featured stories persons who were unjustly accused, usually due to circumstantial evidence. The program's primary theme is that when individuals are charged with a crime not all is as it first appears and a thorough investigation is duly warranted in order to uncover vital facts pertinent to the case.\n\nHerbert L. Maris had an uncanny sense about the honest, innocent persons who had been falsely accused. He was an attorney who spent his spare time helping defendants unjustly charged by the State. The stories do not involve federal crimes.\n\nAmong the many guest stars on the show were:\n\nZiv Television Programs, Inc., of Cincinnati, Ohio, a producer and distributor of more than 40 television shows during the 1950s including \"Highway Patrol,\" \"Sea Hunt,\" \"Science Fiction Theatre,\" and subsequently, ZIV-United Artists produced the television series. Later, Showcase Media of Studio City, California distributed the series.\n\nClassicFlix announced that they would release Season 1 on DVD in region 1 in 2017. However, these plans were shelved indefintely on April 17, 2018, when ClassicFlix announced that they wouldn't be moving on with the project after all, due to the film elements not being in good enough shape.\n\n"}
{"id": "32260005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32260005", "title": "Louis Henry Scipio, Count Duroure", "text": "Louis Henry Scipio, Count Duroure\n\nLouis Henry Scipion, Count Durore (1763–1822) was a French revolutionary and English radical.\n\nDuroure was born in Marseilles on 26 February 1763. Louis Alexandre, Count Duroure, an Anglo-French soldier, claimed to be his father. Duroure also claimed that his mother was Hon. Henrietta Child, widow of Hon Josiah Child, younger brother of John Tylney, 2nd Earl Tylney, of Wanstead House, and daughter of Robert Knight, Lord Luxborough and later Earl of Catherlough. Mrs. Child had died three days after the child's birth and Duroure returned to Lord Luxborough's house in London with the child, and Mrs. Child's body in a coffin, claiming that they had been married and that the child was theirs. Lord Luxborough (who had known nothing of his daughter's pregnancy) took them in and presented the child to the world as the legitimate child of his daughter's marriage to Duroure.\n\nDuroure was bi-lingual, so it appears that he was educated both in France and England. He later claimed to have studied at Oxford. His reputed grandfather, Lord Catherlough, died in 1772, leaving his property to his illegitimate children. Duroure was to have the income on £3000 at his majority. When his half-brother, Josiah Child, died in 1775, Duroure's guardians claimed Mrs. Child's fortune for him. They seem to have been unsuccessful in establishing their claim, for Lord Bolingbroke (the next heir) took possession of the two houses in Park Lane and Albemarle Street that had belonged to Mrs Child. In 1780, Duroure's guardians purchased a commission for him in the Royal Horseguards Blue.\n\nAs a lieutenant in the Horseguards, Duroure was said to have caused \"much notice about town.\" Then, in 1784, he attempted to elope to France with the wife of a lawyer of his acquaintance. They were unable to gain a passage and were finally tracked down by the lady's husband to a \"bagnio\" in Leicester Fields. A pistol was fired at the lawyer as he tried to gain admittance and Duroure was brought to trial at the Old Bailey. His lawyer Thomas Erskine (later Lord Chancellor) got him off on a technicality but the next day he was arrested for debt. He remained in Newgate Gaol until September 1789.\n\nThe day after his release, Duroure gained access to his mother's Park Lane house — which Lord Bolingbroke had already sold to a Mr. Jones — and lived there for the next two years. When his claim was finally brought before Lord Chief Justice Kenyon at the Surrey Assizes in June 1791, it was ruled that he was barred from inheriting his mother's property because he had been born abroad of a foreign father. Despite the ruling, he seems to have remained well off. Soon after this, he left for Paris where he was active in the section Faubourg Montmartre. At the end of October 1792, as Scipion Duroure, he was elected to represent his section on the General Council of the Paris Commune, where he had responsibility for the royal family in the Temple Prison. He was a witness to the last testament of Louis XVI. He was elected a Vice President of the Commune and in February 1793 was further elected First Commissioner of Finance. At the end of May 1793, he was one of the members of the Revolutionary Council that made its headquarters in the Archbishop's Palace and demanded the arrest of the Girondin leaders in the Convention. He was appointed to interrogate Roland, but Roland managed to escape. He was a close colleague and friend of Rene Hebert — standing sponsor at the lay baptism of Hebert's daughter — which made him vulnerable when Hebert and Robespierre fell out. Fabre d’Eglantine’s revelation of a ‘foreign plot’ in October 1793 was aimed at men liked Duroure. In early March 1794 he and his colleagues from the Section Mont-Marat (so renamed after Marat's murder) marched on the Convention to demand food for the people of Paris, but he found himself denounced, arrested and sent to the Saint-Lazare prison with the other Hébertists. It is not clear how he escaped execution. In September 1794, after the end of the Terror, he was released.\n\nDuroure seems to have returned to England for a brief while, though d'Amat says that he was serving as a town councillor in Avignon in 1795-6. During the Directory's attack on royalists and Jacobins in September 1797, he was again arrested. After his release, he continued to involve himself with revolutionary politics. During the brief Jacobin revival of the summer of 1799, he was a member of the \"Réunion d'amis de l'égalité et de la liberté\", which had its headquarters in the \"Salle du Manège\" of the Tuileries, and was thus known as the \"Club du Manège\". However, with Bonaparte's \"coup d'etat\" of December 1799, Duroure was among those proscribed as a \"dangerous agitator\" and condemned to deportation to Guyana. There is no record of his arrest. He seems to have fled to England, where he spent the rest of his life.\n\nBy now Duroure seems to have lost much of his fortune. He settled in London and was linked to the world of radical publishing through Sir Richard Phillips. He was an admirer of Cobbett's \"Grammar of the English Language\", which he translated into French. He also translated Phillips' work on the English jury system as \"Des pouvoirs et des obligations des jurys\". According to Francois-Xavier de Feller in his \"Biographie Universelle\", Duroure was also working on an edition of the philosophical works of his great uncle, the 1st Lord Bolingbroke, and on the family letters of his grandmother, Lady Luxborough, but nothing appeared. He died in Arundel Street, London on 24 September 1822. Michaud in his \"Biographie Universelle\" says that his illegitimate son died on the same day and that it was thought that they had been poisoned. He was buried with his reputed mother (Mrs Child, otherwise Countess Duroure) at Ullenhall in Warwickshire after a funeral which was \"ridiculously grand, the hearse all covered with coats-of-arms, not much to the satisfaction of the family, who doubted his really being the Countess' son\"\n"}
{"id": "16486507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16486507", "title": "Mary Bradbury", "text": "Mary Bradbury\n\nMary (née Perkins) Bradbury (baptized September 3, 1615December 20, 1700) was tried, convicted and sentenced to hang as a witch in Salem, Massachusetts in 1692. However, she managed to evade sentence until the trials had been discredited, and died in 1700, aged 85.\n\nMary Perkins was daughter of John and Judith (née Gater) Perkins, baptized in 1615, at Warwickshire, England. Her family immigrated to America in 1631, sailing on the \"Lyon\" from Bristol. In 1636 she married Thomas Bradbury of Salisbury, Massachusetts, considered one of its most distinguished citizens, land agent for his great-uncle Ferdinando Gorges and son of Elizabeth Whitgift, whose uncle John Whitgift was Archbishop of Canterbury under Elizabeth and James I. \n\nIn the notorious witch trials of 1692, Mary Bradbury was indicted for (among other charges):\nCertaine Detestable arts called Witchcraft & Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practiced and Exercised At and in the Township of Andivor in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon & against one Timothy Swann of Andivor In the County aforesaid Husbandman – by which said Wicked Acts the said Timothy Swann upon the 26th day of July Aforesaid and divers other days & times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented..\n\nWitnesses testified that she assumed animal forms; her most unusual metamorphosis was said to have been that of a blue boar. Another allegation was that she cast spells upon ships. Over a hundred of her neighbors and townspeople testified on her behalf, but to no avail and she was found guilty of practicing magic and sentenced to be executed. Through the ongoing efforts of her friends, her execution was delayed. After the witch debacle had passed, she was released. By some accounts she was allowed to escape. Others claim she bribed her jailer. Another account claims that her husband bribed the jailer and took her away to Maine in a horse and cart. They returned to Massachusetts after the witch hysteria had died down. Mary Bradbury died of natural causes in her own bed in 1700, aged 85. \n\nHer family friend, and her son-in-law's father, Major Robert Pike, was in command of all the forces of Norfolk County, Massachusetts Bay Colony and those located in present-day Maine. As early as 1650 he was what would now be called a trial justice and in 1672 an associate judge of the courts of Norfolk Co. In political life a member of the General Court when 32 and of the Governor's Council from 1682–96, when having reached the age of 50 years he retired to the private life of the farm.\n\nIn 1711, the governor and council of Massachusetts authorized payment of £578.12s to the claimants representing twenty-three persons condemned at Salem, and the heirs of Mary Bradbury received £20. A petition to reverse the attainder of twenty-two of the thirty-one citizens convicted and condemned as a result of the trials was passed by the Massachusetts General Court in 1711. In 1957, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts reversed the stigma placed on all those not covered by earlier orders.\n\nMary Perkins Bradbury and Thomas Bradbury had eleven children:\n\nHer descendants include:\nMeghan Markle is a descendant of hers as well\n\nOne of Mary's brothers, Jacob Perkins, was an ancestor of Humphrey Bogart, Calvin Coolidge and Mary Aspinwall, Franklin Delano Roosevelt's paternal grandmother. Another brother, John Perkins, was an ancestor of Millard Fillmore and Endicott Peabody. \n\n"}
{"id": "28148242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28148242", "title": "Max Wolf Valerio", "text": "Max Wolf Valerio\n\nMax Wolf Valerio (born February 16, 1957 in Heidelberg, West Germany) is a poet, memoir writer, essayist and actor. He has lived for many years in San Francisco, California. He is of Kainai (Blackfoot/Blood), Sephardic Jewish (Converso), and Northern European descent.\n\nValerio's 2006 memoir \"The Testosterone Files\" is one of his most prominent pieces of writing. It describes his transition and experiences as a trans man. He also writes and performs poetry, and has acted in films and appeared in many documentaries.\n\nValerio's mother is of Blackfoot descent, specifically from the Kainai in Alberta, Canada. His father's family can be traced back to 1694 with the De Vargas expedition and 1598 with the Onate expedition, making their way into what is now Northern New Mexico. Valerio's father identifies as Spanish and his ancestry can be connected to Sephardic Jewish roots from Spain, Portugal and Italy. The Valerio family can be traced from Spain and then migrated to Italy during the Spanish Inquisition. They were conversos and eventually migrated to New Spain. Growing up Valerio had fair skin, light eyes and light hair and was often confused for Russian, half-Chinese, Hungarian or as a white American.\n\nValerio's father was in the United States Army for 20 years, which caused them to move frequently in the United States and Europe. Max was born in a US Army hospital in Heidelberg, Germany. Valerio lived in many US states including Maryland, Washington, California, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Colorado, as well as in Canada, and again in Germany as a child and teenager.\n\nGrowing up Valerio had a hard time relating to girls. He felt that he did not fit in because of his masculine nature and at times would offer to play male roles but it would not approved by the female counterparts that he was attempting to play with. He decided to identify himself as a lesbian as a teen because it made the most sense to him at the time. Valerio imagined himself as a boy when growing up and could not imagine himself growing into a woman. He felt he was always male and identified with male children/adults. Valerio would cry himself to sleep as a child wishing to be a boy. Valerio went to college and came out as a lesbian feminist in 1975. Valerio could not relate to lesbian sex. Valerio started to feel more male and a male gender identity started to come back from childhood.\n\nIn 1988, after discussions with a friend and roommate who was formally transitioning from male to female, Valerio realized that he was transsexual and began considering a sex change. Max found the FMT Organization in San Francisco run by Lou Sullivan and started attending meetings. Valerio was amazed by the other female to male transsexuals/transgender people and realized that it could be done. Like an \"explosion\" in his mind Max Valerio had realized he was not a lesbian but a transsexual man.\n\nValerio transitioned in 1989 from female to male. Valerio's initial exposure to transsexual information were two pieces that have been considered by LGBTQ groups as being exceptionally trans-phobic. The first book Valerio picked up was \"Female-to-Male Transsexualism\" by Leslie Lothstein. Valerio says in \"The Testosterone Files\" that \"Lothstein's book is damning\" and that he \"paints the transsexual men he is working with as psychopathic, borderline, fractured, pathetic\". Valerio also says that Lothstein's book says that Lothstein \"feels that most of the men are mistaken in asking for sex reassignment\". The second resource Valerio picked up was Janice Raymond's book, \"The Transsexual Empire\". Valerio states that \"Raymond postulated that all transsexuals were dupes of the patriarchy, \"mutilating\" their bodies in order to live out stereotyped sex roles instead of changing those roles through rigorously applied program of radical feminism\".\n\nValerio talks about his first steps of transitioning in the movie \"MAX with Max W. Valerio\", a short documentary style film by Monika Treut. Max goes into deeper depth about the testosterone side of transitioning and early steps in his book \"The Testosterone Files\". He also appears in \"Gendernauts\", another film by Monika Treut.\n\nMax then talks about the process in declaring transsexualism to a psychologist or counselor so one may obtain the female to male transitioning hormone: testosterone. Sometimes called \"T\" in the FTM scene.\n\nWhat Max went through was a visit to a counselor for three months. That counselor then decides if the patient is \"sincere and that [they] probably are transsexual\". The counselor then writes a letter so that the patient may obtain testosterone to start the transition from female to male. The standard dosage of testosterone is one injection every two weeks inter-muscularly. That is what Max Valerio did in early stages of transitioning.\n\nValerio went to an Endocrinologist to obtain the hormones with the letter from the counselor.\n\nTestosterone is a male sex hormone used in female to male gender reassignment. In women, the ovaries and adrenal glands produce testosterone naturally but at about one tenth the amount the typical male would produce. The hormone plays a role in the development of the sex drive, sperm production, fat distribution, red cell production and the maintenance of muscle mass and muscle strength.\nFTM transexxuals report an increase of sex drive because of the testosterone as Max goes into detail in his book The Testosterone Files\n\nThe physical effects of HRT or Hormone Replacement Therapy using testosterone are: loss of menstruation, deepening of the voice, hair growth both facially and body hair growth, the face taking on more masculine aspects, increase in muscle mass the clitoris enlarging, male pattern baldness could occur if in the genes as well acne. Valerio experienced most of these effects, excluding the baldness. Valerio experienced less hair growth but he attributes this to being half Blackfoot.\n\nThe main form of testosterone given is inter-muscular injections every two to three weeks of synthetic testosterone. There is also a way of injecting testosterone subcutaneously, just under the skin. There are also creams, gels sprays, under-arm applications, patches and many more. Valerio used the common way of inter-muscular injections.\n\nValerio’s memoir \"The Testosterone Files\" describes the psychological, physiological, and social transformation that occurred in the first five years of his transition from female to male. One of the main themes of the book is role of testosterone in his transition. This is because Valerio credits testosterone as the most definitive and crucial aspect of his transformation. The book is organized into three parts: \"Beginning,\" \"Before Testosterone,\" and \"After Testosterone.\"\n\nThe prologue is an important aspect of the book because Valerio uses an in depth narration of what it is like to be a transsexual to allow his readers to understand the trials and tribulations that one experiences when going through a sex change. In this section, Valerio wants people to understand that transsexuals are not simply just a branch of lesbian or gay. He wants people to understand that \"transsexual identities must be defined and expressed on our own terms\". In Valerio's opinion, transsexuals voices and experiences, until more recently, are \"unheard and incompletely imagined\" which is one of the reasons he wanted to write this memoir.\n\nPart one is the section titled, The Beginning, which introduces you to Valerio as he begins his transition from female to male. Valerio discusses the physical changes occurring that have allowed him to understand what it feels like to experience biological masculinity. These include physical changes such as his voice becoming deeper and his hair becoming darker and coarser.\n\nPart two which is the section title, Before Testosterone, narrates what led Valerio to decide that changing sex was the right path for him. This section of the book describes cultural and ethnic background of both his mother and father. Valerio talks about one of his relationships that lead him to discover that being a lesbian, and sex between two women, did not arouse him. He discovered that his attraction towards women wasn’t a lesbian attraction rather that it was a heterosexual attraction, one from a man to a woman.\n\nPart three, which is the section titled After Testosterone, is one written so that the readers can feel Valerio’s emotional, social, and perceptual transformation from female to male. The beginning chapters of this section narrates Valerio’s acceptance of becoming a male. His body is physically transitioning and he is adapting to doing and experiencing ‘male’ things such as shaving, adapting to a deeper voice, and having straight women make advances towards him He also discusses the emotional experiences of telling everyone who didn’t yet already know that he was becoming a male. He describes an in detail encounter of coming out as transsexual to one of his female co-workers as a way to narrate the difficulty of identity politics when transitioning With this woman, Valerio experienced his first intimate encounter with a female since transitioning to becoming a man. Valerio narrates his perceptual experiences of not yet having bottom surgery, but being physically male otherwise The book ends off with his discovery of his Adams apple that has grown from the testosterone which signifies his excitement and recognition that this transition was exactly what Max needed to be happy with himself.\n\nMax Valerio had an increase in energy almost immediately, and increase in sex drive as well an inability to cry as he once had as a female.\n\nIn the film MAX, Valerio talks about his experience of perceptual, emotional and physical change with testosterone. Filmed in New York City in the early 90's, the film is a groundbreaking exploration of trans male experience.\n\nWhen Valerio identified himself as a lesbian, he was able to learn about the idea of feminism, became involved with left wing radical politics and was able to have a deeper understanding of the female identity. Valerio was a part of the American Indian Movement and participated in marches and visited the Pine Ridge Reservation when it was under siege by the F.B.I after the Wounded Knee Occupation. Valerio's political transformation was from left-wing radical and then to the Democratic Party, and eventually to more libertarian/classic liberal and a member of the Republican party. He identifies as a classic liberal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38694007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38694007", "title": "Mohammad-Reza Darvishi", "text": "Mohammad-Reza Darvishi\n\nMohammad-Reza Darvishi (; born 17 October 1955 in Shiraz) is an Iranian musician, researcher, and author of \"Encyclopedia of the Musical Instruments of Iran\", a Klaus P. Wachsmann Prize-winner book about Iranian musical instruments.\n\nA selection of M. R. Darvishi's film scores\n\n\nSome of his Cassettes and CDs are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36865324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36865324", "title": "Momtaz El-Saeed", "text": "Momtaz El-Saeed\n\nMomtaz El-Saeed (also known as Momtaz Saeed Abu El Nour; born 1948) is an Egyptian civil servant who served in the government of Egypt as minister of finance from 2011 to 2013.\n\nSaeed was born in 1948. He obtained a bachelor's degree in accounting from Ain Shams University in 1971.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Saeed served as general director of the Egyptian finance ministry's budget division. He was the ministry undersecretary during the term of Mubarak-era finance minister Youssef Boutros Ghali. Prior to being appointed minister by Prime Minister Kamal Ganzouri in the interim government in December 2011, Saeed served as the second-in-command at Egypt's finance ministry. Saeed was called from retirement in the middle of 2011 to work as deputy finance minister under Finance Minister Hazem Al Beblawi.\n\nOn 2 August 2012, Saeed was sworn in as part of Prime Minister Hisham Qandil's cabinet. He was one of the independent ministers in the cabinet. Saeed leans towards the conservative side, and no dramatic policy changes were expected from him. He prepared Egypt's 2012-2013 state budget. Saeed was criticized by the Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) of the Muslim Brotherhood, who claimed that he delayed presenting the budget to the Egyptian parliament by two months deliberately. One official of the FJP called the budget that Saeed drafted \"a plot\" to ensure that President Morsi fails,\" and that it was the same as every budget during the era of President Hosni Mubarak. Saeed was replaced by Morsi Hegazy as finance minister in a cabinet reshuffle on 5 January 2013.\n\nFollowing the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, Egypt's economy entered into decline, leading Egypt's central bank to sell dollars in order to bolster Egypt's pound. Egypt's economy faces a balance of payments crisis, and is also being further undermined due to high state borrowing costs.\n\nOn 13 August 2012, Saeed announced that Qatar was expected to deposit $500 million in the Egyptian central bank to help alleviate Egypt's economic crisis. He also said that Egyptian officials had discussed with Libya the possibility of Libya supporting Egypt's depleted finances.\n\nOn 22 August 2012, it was reported that following a meeting with Managing Director Christine Lagarde of the International Monetary Fund, Saeed denied rumors pertaining to an imminent devaluation of the Egyptian pound. He also said that devaluation of the pound was not a condition for a $4.8 billion loan that Egypt was requesting from the IMF. Saeed also added that the IMF would not interfere with the Egyptian government’s new reform policies, and that the loan is an indication that Egypt's economy is heading forward, and it should encourage foreign investment. In regards to the loan, Saeed said that Egypt is \"entitled to assistance when going through a crisis\" because Egypt is one of the founding members of the IMF and contributes to the IMF's capital. El-Saeed explained that the loan is mainly based on an economic and social reform program that Egypt prepared in order to escape from Egypt's economic crisis.\n\nSaeed announced in May 2012 that he ordered the Egyptian tax authority to implement legal changes that would allow Egypt to collect billions of pounds of unpaid taxes, and would speed up collection and facilitate taxation of small businesses. El-Saeed said that Egypt is owed 150 billion pounds in uncollected taxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "39725481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39725481", "title": "Neilesh Patel", "text": "Neilesh Patel\n\nNeilesh Patel is a social entrepreneur and American humanitarian who serves as Founder and CEO of HealthCare Volunteer, an online global health non-profit organization, and Healthsouk, a dental insurance alternative with no monthly fee. Patel won the 2013 Jefferson Awards for Public Service for Greatest Public Service by an Individual Under Age 35 in June 2013 for his service in facilitating healthcare to over 1 million people worldwide. The Jefferson Award is dubbed the nobel prize for community service in the United States of America and previous winners include Steve Jobs, Bobby Jindal, Peyton Manning and Lance Armstrong.\nHe is also credited with starting Healthsouk, America's first free dental plan and is credited with being the inventor of real-time pricing for health services. He launched it in 2011 in response to the lack to dental coverage provided in the Affordable Care Act. Other companies were forced to follow suit on creating a free dental plan after HealthSouk started to disrupt the dental discount plan subscription model.\n\nHe graduated with a degree in Biomedical Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, and a Doctorate in Dental Surgery from UCLA School of Dentistry. Neilesh spent two summers working at Netscape, focusing on Y2K date change development. For his hard work and determination, he was bestowed with a Netscape jacket.\n\nBefore working on HealthCare Volunteer, Patel worked on other social enterprises such as StudentsHelp.org Consulting starting at age 17. Patel was awarded the 2013 National Jefferson Award for Greatest Public Service by a Citizen Under Age 35 Patel was awarded the UCLA CEY Humanitarian Award in 2008 and an honorary certificate in Global Health from UCLA School of Public Health for his work in global health volunteering. Patel was also awarded as a 2007 International Youth Foundation Global Laureate YouthActionNet Fellow and a semi-finalist in the Echoing Green Competition.\n\nNeilesh Patel holds multiple government appointments an including a previous stint as the Public Services Representative on the Children's Policy Council for the State of Texas, Public health consultant for the FDA Dental Devices Panel and Dental Consultant for the Tulare County Office of Education Early Childhood Program.\n\n"}
{"id": "30172853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30172853", "title": "Nicholas II of Russia", "text": "Nicholas II of Russia\n\nNicholas II or Nikolai II (; 1868 – 17 July 1918), known as Saint Nicholas the Passion-Bearer in the Russian Orthodox Church, was the last Emperor of Russia, ruling from 1 November 1894 until his forced abdication on 2 March 1917. His reign saw the fall of the Russian Empire from one of the foremost great powers of the world to economic and military collapse. He was given the nickname Nicholas the Bloody or Vile Nicholas by his political adversaries due to the Khodynka Tragedy, anti-Semitic pogroms, Bloody Sunday, the violent suppression of the 1905 Russian Revolution, the execution of political opponents, and his perceived responsibility for the Russo-Japanese War (1904–1905). Soviet historians portrayed Nicholas as a weak and incompetent leader whose decisions led to military defeats and the deaths of millions of his subjects.\n\nRussia was defeated in the 1904–1905 Russo-Japanese War which saw the annihilation of the reinforcing Russian Baltic Fleet after being sent on its round-the-world cruise at the naval Battle of Tsushima, off the coasts of Korea and Japan, the loss of Russian influence over Manchuria and Korea, and the Japanese annexation to the north of South Sakhalin Island. The Anglo-Russian Entente was designed to counter the German Empire's attempts to gain influence in the Middle East, but it also ended the Great Game of confrontation between Russia and the United Kingdom. When all Russian diplomatic efforts to prevent the First World War (1914–1918) failed, Nicholas approved the Imperial Russian Army mobilization on 30 July 1914 which gave Imperial Germany formal grounds to declare war on Russia on 1 August 1914. An estimated 3.3 million Russians were killed in the First World War. The Imperial Russian Army's severe losses, the High Command's incompetent management of the war efforts, and lack of food and supplies on the home front were all leading causes of the fall of the House of Romanov.\n\nFollowing the February Revolution of 1917, Nicholas abdicated on behalf of himself and his son and heir, the Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich. He and his family were imprisoned and transferred to Tobolsk in late summer 1917. On 30 April 1918, Nicholas, Alexandra, and their daughter Maria were handed over to the local Ural Soviet council in Ekaterinburg (renamed Sverdlovsk during the Soviet era); the rest of the captives followed on 23 May. Nicholas and his family were executed by their Bolshevik guards on the night of 16/17 July 1918. The remains of the imperial family were later found, exhumed, identified and re-interred with elaborate State and Church ceremony in St. Petersburg on 17 July 1998 – 80 years later.\n\nIn 1981, Nicholas, his wife, and their children were recognized as martyrs by the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia in New York City. On 15 August 2000, they were canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church as passion bearers, commemorating believers who face death in a Christ-like manner.\n\nNicholas was born in the Alexander Palace in Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire, the eldest son of Emperor Alexander III and Empress Maria Feodorovna of Russia (née Princess Dagmar of Denmark). He had five younger siblings: Alexander (1869–1870), George (1871–1899), Xenia (1875–1960), Michael (1878–1918) and Olga (1882–1960). Nicholas often referred to his father nostalgically in letters after Alexander's death in 1894. He was also very close to his mother, as revealed in their published letters to each other.\n\nHis paternal grandparents were Emperor Alexander II and Empress Maria Alexandrovna (née Princess Marie of Hesse and by Rhine). His maternal grandparents were King Christian IX and Queen Louise of Denmark. Nicholas was of primarily German and Danish descent, his last ethnically Russian ancestor being Grand Duchess Anna Petrovna of Russia (1708–1728), daughter of Peter the Great.\nNicholas was related to several monarchs in Europe. His mother's siblings included Kings Frederick VIII of Denmark and George I of Greece, as well as the United Kingdom's Queen Alexandra (consort of King Edward VII). Nicholas, his wife Alexandra, and German Emperor Wilhelm II were all first cousins of King George V of the United Kingdom. Nicholas was also a first cousin of both King Haakon VII and Queen Maud of Norway, as well as King Christian X of Denmark and King Constantine I of Greece. Nicholas and Wilhelm II were in turn second cousins-once-removed, as each descended from King Frederick William III of Prussia, as well as third cousins, as they were both great-great-grandsons of Tsar Paul I of Russia. In addition to being second cousins through descent from Louis II, Grand Duke of Hesse and his wife Princess Wilhelmine of Baden, Nicholas and Alexandra were also third cousins-once-removed, as they were both descendants of King Frederick William II of Prussia.\n\nTsar Nicholas II was the first cousin-once-removed of Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich. To distinguish between them the Grand Duke was often known within the imperial family as \"Nikolasha\" and \"Nicholas the Tall\", while the Tsar was \"Nicholas the Short\".\n\nIn his childhood, Nicholas, his parents and siblings made annual visits to the Danish royal palaces of Fredensborg and Bernstorff to visit his grandparents, the king and queen. The visits also served as family reunions, as his mother's siblings would also come from the United Kingdom, Germany and Greece with their respective families. It was there in 1883, that he had a flirtation with one of his English first cousins, Princess Victoria. In 1873, Nicholas also accompanied his parents and younger brother, two-year-old George, on a two-month, semi-official visit to England. In London, Nicholas and his family stayed at Marlborough House, as guests of his \"Uncle Bertie\" and \"Aunt Alix\", the Prince and Princess of Wales, where he was spoiled by his uncle.\n\nOn 1 March 1881, following the assassination of his grandfather, Tsar Alexander II, Nicholas became heir apparent upon his father's ascension as Alexander III. Nicholas and his other family members bore witness to Alexander II's death, having been present at the Winter Palace in Saint Petersburg, where he was brought after the attack. For security reasons, the new tsar and his family relocated their primary residence to the Gatchina Palace outside the city, only entering the capital for various ceremonial functions. On such occasions, Alexander III and his family occupied the nearby Anichkov Palace.\n\nIn 1884, Nicholas's coming-of-age ceremony was held at the Winter Palace, where he pledged his loyalty to his father. Later that year, Nicholas's uncle, Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich, married Princess Elizabeth, daughter of Louis IV, Grand Duke of Hesse and his late wife Princess Alice of the United Kingdom (who had died in 1878), and a granddaughter of Queen Victoria. At the wedding in St. Petersburg, the sixteen-year-old Tsarevich met with and admired the bride's youngest surviving sister, twelve-year-old Princess Alix. Those feelings of admiration blossomed into love following her visit to St. Petersburg five years later in 1889. Alix had feelings for him in turn. As a devout Lutheran, she was initially reluctant to convert to Russian Orthodoxy in order to marry Nicholas, but later relented.\n\nIn 1890 Nicholas, his younger brother George, and their cousin Prince George of Greece, set out on a world tour, although Grand Duke George fell ill and was sent home partway through the trip. Nicholas visited Egypt, India, Singapore, and Bangkok, receiving honors as a distinguished guest in each country. In April 1891, in the city of Ōtsu, Japan, Nicholas was attacked by a deranged Japanese police officer. The incident cut his trip short. Returning overland to St. Petersburg, he was present at the ceremonies in Vladivostok commemorating the beginning of work on the Trans-Siberian Railway. In 1893, Nicholas traveled to London on behalf of his parents to be present at the wedding of his cousin, the Duke of York to Princess Mary of Teck. Queen Victoria was struck by the physical resemblance between the two cousins, and their appearances confused some at the wedding. During this time, Nicholas had an affair with St. Petersburg ballerina Mathilde Kschessinska.\n\nThough Nicholas was heir-apparent to the throne, his father failed to prepare him for his future role as tsar. He attended meetings of the State Council; however, as his father was only in his forties, it was expected that it would be many years before Nicholas succeeded to the throne. Sergei Witte, Russia's finance minister, saw things differently and suggested to the tsar that Nicholas be appointed to the Siberian Railway Committee. Alexander argued that Nicholas was not mature enough to take on serious responsibilities, to which Witte replied that if Nicholas was not introduced to state affairs, he would never be ready to understand them. Alexander's assumptions that he would live a long life and had years to prepare Nicholas for becoming tsar proved wrong, as by 1894, Alexander's health was failing.\n\nIn April 1894, Nicholas joined his Uncle Sergei and Aunt Elizabeth on a journey to Coburg, Germany, for the wedding of Elizabeth's and Alix's brother, Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, to their mutual first cousin Princess Victoria Melita of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. Other guests included Queen Victoria, Kaiser Wilhelm II, the Empress Frederick (Kaiser Wilhelm's mother and Queen Victoria's eldest daughter), Nicholas's uncle, the Prince of Wales, and the bride's parents, the Duke and Duchess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.\n\nOnce in Coburg Nicholas proposed to Alix, but she rejected his proposal, being reluctant to convert to Orthodoxy. But the Kaiser later told her she had a duty to marry Nicholas and to convert, as her sister Elizabeth had voluntarily done in 1892. Thus Nicholas and Alix became officially engaged on 20 April 1894. Nicholas's parents initially hesitated to give the engagement their blessing, as Alix had made poor impressions during her visits to Russia. They gave their consent only when they saw Tsar Alexander's health deteriorating.\n\nThat summer, Nicholas travelled to England to visit both Alix and the Queen. The visit coincided with the birth of the Duke and Duchess of York's first child, the future King Edward VIII. Along with being present at the christening, Nicholas and Alix were listed among the child's godparents. After several weeks in England, Nicholas returned home for the wedding of his sister, Xenia, to a cousin, Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich (\"Sandro\").\n\nBy that autumn, Alexander III lay dying. Upon learning that he would live only a fortnight, the Tsar had Nicholas summon Alix to the imperial palace at Livadia. Alix arrived on 22 October; the Tsar insisted on receiving her in full uniform. From his deathbed, he told his son to heed the advice of Witte, his most capable minister. Ten days later, Alexander III died at the age of forty-nine, leaving twenty-six-year-old Nicholas as Emperor of Russia. That evening, Nicholas was consecrated by his father's priest as Tsar Nicholas II and, the following day, Alix was received into the Russian Orthodox Church, taking the name Alexandra Feodorovna with the title of Grand Duchess and the style of \"Imperial Highness\".\n\nNicholas may have felt unprepared for the duties of the crown, for he asked his cousin and brother-in-law, Grand Duke Alexander, \"What is going to happen to me and all of Russia?\" Though perhaps under-prepared and unskilled, Nicholas was not altogether untrained for his duties as Tsar. Nicholas chose to maintain the conservative policies favoured by his father throughout his reign. While Alexander III had concentrated on the formulation of general policy, Nicholas devoted much more attention to the details of administration.\n\nLeaving Livadia on 7 November, Tsar Alexander's funeral procession—which included Nicholas's paternal aunt Queen Olga of Greece, and the Prince and Princess of Wales—arrived in Moscow. After lying in state in the Kremlin, the body of the Tsar was taken to St. Petersburg, where the funeral was held on 19 November.\n\nNicholas and Alix's wedding was originally scheduled for the spring of 1895, but it was moved forward at Nicholas's insistence. Staggering under the weight of his new office, he had no intention of allowing the one person who gave him confidence to leave his side. Instead, Nicholas's wedding to Alix took place on 26 November 1894, which was the birthday of the Dowager Empress Marie Feodorovna, and court mourning could be slightly relaxed. Alexandra wore the traditional dress of Romanov brides, and Nicholas a hussar's uniform. Nicholas and Alexandra, each holding a lit candle, faced the palace priest and were married a few minutes before one in the afternoon.\n\nDespite a visit to the United Kingdom in 1893, where he observed the House of Commons in debate and seemingly impressed by the machinery of constitutional monarchy, Nicholas turned his back on any notion of giving away any power to elected representatives in Russia. Shortly after he came to the throne, a deputation of peasants and workers from various towns' local assemblies (\"zemstvos\") came to the Winter Palace proposing court reforms, such as the adoption of a constitutional monarchy, and reform that would improve the political and economic life of the peasantry, in the Tver Address.\n\nAlthough the addresses they had sent in beforehand were couched in mild and loyal terms, Nicholas was angry and ignored advice from an Imperial Family Council by saying to them:\n\nOn 26 May 1896, Nicholas's formal coronation as Tsar was held in Uspensky Cathedral located within the Kremlin. The Silk Imperial Crown Of Russia was used, as an official coronation gift of the Russian Empire. Nicholas II was the first and only monarch to be presented with such a monumental coronation gift. It was not intended as ceremonial regalia, but as private Imperial property, a memento to his coronation.\n\nIn celebration on 27 May 1896, a large festival with food, free beer and souvenir cups was held in Khodynka Field outside Moscow. Khodynka was chosen as the location as it was the only place near Moscow large enough to hold all of the Moscow citizens. Khodynka was primarily used as a military training ground and the field was uneven with trenches. Before the food and drink was handed out, rumours spread that there would not be enough for everyone. As a result, the crowd rushed to get their share and individuals were tripped and trampled upon, suffocating in the dirt of the field. Of the approximate 100,000 in attendance, it is estimated that 1,389 individuals died and roughly 1,300 were injured. The Khodynka Tragedy was seen as an ill omen and Nicholas found gaining popular trust difficult from the beginning of his reign. The French ambassador's gala was planned for that night. The Tsar wanted to stay in his chambers and pray for the lives lost, but his uncles believed that his absence at the ball would strain relations with France, particularly the 1894 Franco-Russian Alliance. Thus Nicholas attended the party; as a result the mourning populace saw Nicholas as frivolous and uncaring.\n\nDuring the autumn after the coronation, Nicholas and Alexandra made a tour of Europe. After making visits to the emperor and empress of Austria-Hungary, the Kaiser of Germany, and Nicholas's Danish grandparents and relatives, Nicholas and Alexandra took possession of their new yacht, the \"Standart, \"which had been built in Denmark. From there, they made a journey to Scotland to spend some time with Queen Victoria at Balmoral Castle. While Alexandra enjoyed her reunion with her grandmother, Nicholas complained in a letter to his mother about being forced to go shooting with his uncle, the Prince of Wales, in bad weather, and was suffering from a bad toothache.\n\nThe first years of his reign saw little more than continuation and development of the policy pursued by Alexander III. Nicholas allotted money for the All-Russia exhibition of 1896. In 1897 restoration of gold standard by Sergei Witte, Minister of Finance, completed the series of financial reforms, initiated fifteen years earlier. By 1902 the Trans-Siberian Railway was nearing completion; this helped the Russians trade in the Far East but the railway still required huge amounts of work.\n\nIn foreign relations, Nicholas followed the policies of his father, strengthening the Franco-Russian Alliance and pursuing a policy of general European pacification, which culminated in the famous Hague peace conference. This conference, suggested and promoted by Nicholas II, was convened with the view of terminating the arms race, and setting up machinery for the peaceful settlement of international disputes. The results of the conference were less than expected due to the mutual distrust existing between great powers. Nevertheless, the Hague conventions were among the first formal statements of the laws of war. In 1901 Nicholas II (and the famous Russian diplomat Friedrich Martens) were nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize—for the initiative to convene the Hague Peace Conference and contributing to its implementation.\n\nIn 1903, Nicholas threw himself into an ecclesiastical crisis regarding the canonisation of Seraphim of Sarov. The previous year, it had been suggested that if he were canonised, the imperial couple would beget a son and heir to throne. While Alexandra demanded in July 1902 that Seraphim be canonised in less than a week, Nicholas demanded that he be canonised within a year. Despite a public outcry, the Church bowed to the intense imperial pressure, declaring Seraphim worthy of canonisation in January 1903. That summer, the imperial family travelled to Sarov for the canonisation.\n\nA clash between Russia and the Empire of Japan was almost inevitable by the turn of the 20th century. Russia had expanded in the Far East, and the growth of its settlement and territorial ambitions, as its southward path to the Balkans was frustrated, conflicted with Japan's own territorial ambitions on the Chinese and Asian mainland. Nicholas pursued an aggressive foreign policy with regards to Manchuria and Korea, and strongly supported the scheme for timber concessions in these areas as developed by the Bezobazov group.\n\nWar began in February 1904 with a preemptive Japanese attack on the Russian fleet in Port Arthur, prior to a formal declaration of war.\n\nWith the Russian Far East fleet trapped at Port Arthur, the only other Russian Fleet was the Baltic Fleet; it was half a world away, but the decision was made to send the fleet on a nine-month voyage to the East. The United Kingdom would not allow the Russian navy to use the Suez Canal, due to its alliance with the Empire of Japan, and due to the Dogger Bank incident where the Baltic Fleet mistakenly fired on British fishing boats in the North Sea. The Russian Baltic Fleet traversed the world to lift the blockade on Port Arthur, but after many misadventures on the way, was nearly annihilated by the Japanese in the Battle of the Tsushima Strait. On land the Imperial Russian Army experienced logistical problems. While commands and supplies came from St. Petersburg, combat took place in east Asian ports with only the Trans-Siberian Railway for transport of supplies as well as troops both ways. The rail line between St. Petersburg and Port Arthur was single-track, with no track around Lake Baikal, allowing only gradual build-up of the forces on the front. Besieged Port Arthur fell to the Japanese, after nine months of resistance.\n\nNicholas's stance on the war was something that baffled many. He approached the war with confidence and saw it as an opportunity to raise Russian morale and patriotism, paying little attention to the financial repercussions of a long-distance war. Shortly before the Japanese attack on Port Arthur, Nicholas held firm to the belief that there would be no war. Despite the onset of the war and the many defeats Russia suffered, Nicholas still believed in, and expected, a final victory, maintaining an image of the racial inferiority and military weakness of the Japanese.\n\nAs Russia faced imminent defeat by the Japanese, the call for peace grew. Nicholas's own mother, as well as his cousin, Emperor Wilhelm II, urged Nicholas to open peace negotiations. Despite the efforts for peace, Nicholas remained evasive, sending a telegram to the Kaiser on 10 October that it was his intent to keep on fighting until the Japanese were driven from Manchuria. It was not until 27–28 May 1905 and the annihilation of the Russian fleet by the Japanese, that Nicholas finally decided to sue for peace. Nicholas II accepted American mediation, appointing Sergei Witte chief plenipotentiary for the peace talks. The war was ended by the signing of the Treaty of Portsmouth.\n\nThe Kishinev newspaper \"Bessarabets\", which published anti-Semitic materials, received funds from Viacheslav Plehve, Minister of the Interior. These publications served to fuel the Kishinev pogrom (rioting). The government of Nicholas II formally condemned the rioting and dismissed the regional governor, with the perpetrators arrested and punished by the court. Leadership of the Russian Orthodox Church also condemned anti-Semitic pogroms. Appeals to the faithful condemning the pogroms were read publicly in all churches of Russia. In private Nicholas expressed his admiration for the mobs, viewing anti-Semitism as a useful tool for unifying the people behind the government; however in 1911, following the assassination of Pyotr Stolypin by the Jewish revolutionary Dmitry Bogrov, he approved of government efforts to prevent anti-Semitic pogroms.\n\nA few days prior to Bloody Sunday (9 (22) January 1905), priest and labor leader Georgy Gapon informed the government of the forthcoming procession to the Winter Palace to hand a workers' petition to the Tsar. On Saturday, 8 (21) January, the ministers convened to consider the situation. There was never any thought that the Tsar, who had left the capital for Tsarskoye Selo on the advice of the ministers, would actually meet Gapon; the suggestion that some other member of the imperial family receive the petition was rejected.\n\nFinally informed by the Prefect of Police that he lacked the men to pluck Gapon from among his followers and place him under arrest, the newly appointed Minister of the Interior, Prince Sviatopolk-Mirsky, and his colleagues decided to bring additional troops to reinforce the city. That evening Nicholas wrote in his diary, \"Troops have been brought from the outskirts to reinforce the garrison. Up to now the workers have been calm. Their number is estimated at 120,000. At the head of their union is a kind of socialist priest named Gapon. Mirsky came this evening to present his report on the measures taken.\"\n\nOn Sunday, 9 (22) January 1905, Gapon began his march. Locking arms, the workers marched peacefully through the streets. Some carried religious icons and banners, as well as national flags and portraits of the Tsar. As they walked, they sang hymns and \"God Save The Tsar\". At 2pm all of the converging processions were scheduled to arrive at the Winter Palace. There was no single confrontation with the troops. Throughout the city, at bridges on strategic boulevards, the marchers found their way blocked by lines of infantry, backed by Cossacks and Hussars; and the soldiers opened fire on the crowd.\n\nThe official number of victims was 92 dead and several hundred wounded. Gapon vanished and the other leaders of the march were seized. Expelled from the capital, they circulated through the empire, increasing the casualties. As bullets riddled their icons, their banners and their portraits of Nicholas, the people shrieked, \"The Tsar will not help us!\" Outside Russia, the future British Labour Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald attacked the Tsar, calling him a \"blood-stained creature and a common murderer\".\n\nThat evening Nicholas wrote in his diary:\n\nHis younger sister, Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna, wrote afterwards:\n\nFrom his hiding place Gapon issued a letter, stating \"Nicholas Romanov, formerly Tsar and at present soul-murderer of the Russian empire. The innocent blood of workers, their wives and children lies forever between you and the Russian people ... May all the blood which must be spilled fall upon you, you Hangman. I call upon all the socialist parties of Russia to come to an immediate agreement among themselves and bring an armed uprising against Tsarism.\"\n\nConfronted with growing opposition and after consulting with Witte and Prince Sviatopolk-Mirsky, the Tsar issued a reform ukase on December 25, 1904 with vague promises. \nIn hopes of cutting short the rebellion, many demonstrators were shot on Bloody Sunday (1905) as they tried to march to the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg. Dmitri Feodorovich Trepov was ordered to take drastic measures to stop the revolutionary activity. Grand Duke Sergei was killed in February by a revolutionary's bomb in Moscow as he left the Kremlin. On 3 March the Tsar condemned the revolutionaries. Meanwhile, Witte recommended that a manifesto be issued. Schemes of reform would be elaborated by Goremykin and a committee consisting of elected representatives of the zemstvos and municipal councils under the presidency of Witte. In June the battleship Potemkin, part of the Black Sea Fleet, mutinied.\n\nAround August/September, after his diplomatic success on ending the Russo-Japanese War, Witte wrote to the Tsar stressing the urgent need for political reforms at home. The Tsar remained quite impassive and indulgent; he spent most of that autumn hunting. With the defeat of Russia by a non-Western power, the prestige and authority of the autocratic regime fell significantly. Tsar Nicholas II, taken by surprise by the events, reacted with anger and bewilderment. He wrote to his mother after months of disorder:\n\nIn October a railway strike developed into a general strike which paralysed the country. In a city without electricity, Witte told Nicholas II \"that the country was at the verge of a cataclysmic revolution\". According to Orlando Figes the Tsar asked his uncle Grand Duke Nicholas to assume the role of dictator. \"But the Grand Duke ... took out a revolver and threatened to shoot himself there and then if the Tsar refused to endorse Witte's memorandum.\" Nicholas II had no choice but to make a number of steps in the constitutional liberal direction. The Tsar accepted the draft, hurriedly outlined by Aleksei D. Obolensky. The \"Emperor and Autocrat of All the Russias\" was forced to sign the October Manifesto agreeing to the establishment of the Imperial Duma, and to give up part of his unlimited autocracy. For the next six months, Witte was the Prime Minister. According to Harold Williams: \"That government was almost paralyzed from the beginning. On 26 October (O.S.) the Tsar appointed Trepov Master of the Palace (without consulting Witte), and had daily contact with the Emperor; his influence at court was paramount. On 1 November 1905, (O.S.) Princess Milica of Montenegro presented Grigori Rasputin to Tsar Nicholas and his wife at Peterhof Palace.\n\nUnder pressure from the attempted 1905 Russian Revolution, on 5 August of that year Nicholas II issued a manifesto about the convocation of the State Duma, known as the Bulygin Duma, initially thought to be an advisory organ. In the October Manifesto, the Tsar pledged to introduce basic civil liberties, provide for broad participation in the State Duma, and endow the Duma with legislative and oversight powers. He was determined, however, to preserve his autocracy even in the context of reform. This was signalled in the text of the 1906 constitution. He was described as the supreme autocrat, and retained sweeping executive powers, also in church affairs. His cabinet ministers were not allowed to interfere or assist each other; they were responsible only to him.\n\nNicholas's relations with the Duma were poor. The First Duma, with a majority of Kadets, almost immediately came into conflict with him. Scarcely had the 524 members sat down at the Tauride Palace when they formulated an 'Address to the Throne'. It demanded universal suffrage, radical land reform, the release of all political prisoners and the dismissal of ministers appointed by the Tsar in favour of ministers acceptable to the Duma. Grand Duchess Olga, Nicholas's sister, later wrote:\n\nMinister of the Court Count Vladimir Frederiks commented, \"The Deputies, they give one the impression of a gang of criminals who are only waiting for the signal to throw themselves upon the ministers and cut their throats. I will never again set foot among those people.\" The Dowager Empress noticed \"incomprehensible hatred.\"\n\nAlthough Nicholas initially had a good relationship with his prime minister, Sergei Witte, Alexandra distrusted him as he had instigated an investigation of Grigori Rasputin and, as the political situation deteriorated, Nicholas dissolved the Duma. The Duma was populated with radicals, many of whom wished to push through legislation that would abolish private property ownership, among other things. Witte, unable to grasp the seemingly insurmountable problems of reforming Russia and the monarchy, wrote to Nicholas on 14 April 1906 resigning his office (however, other accounts have said that Witte was forced to resign by the Emperor). Nicholas was not ungracious to Witte and an Imperial Rescript was published on 22 April creating Witte a Knight of the Order of Saint Alexander Nevsky with diamonds (the last two words were written in the Emperor's own hand, followed by \"I remain unalterably well-disposed to you and sincerely grateful, for ever more Nicholas.\").\n\nA second Duma met for the first time in February 1907. The leftist parties—including the Social Democrats and the Social Revolutionaries, who had boycotted the First Duma—had won 200 seats in the Second, more than a third of the membership. Again Nicholas waited impatiently to rid himself of the Duma. In two letters to his mother he let his bitterness flow:\n\nA little while later he further wrote:\n\nAfter the Second Duma resulted in similar problems, the new prime minister Pyotr Stolypin (whom Witte described as \"reactionary\") unilaterally dissolved it, and changed the electoral laws to allow for future Dumas to have a more conservative content, and to be dominated by the liberal-conservative Octobrist Party of Alexander Guchkov. Stolypin, a skilful politician, had ambitious plans for reform. These included making loans available to the lower classes to enable them to buy land, with the intent of forming a farming class loyal to the crown. Nevertheless, when the Duma remained hostile, Stolypin had no qualms about invoking Article 87 of the Fundamental Laws, which empowered the Tsar to issue 'urgent and extraordinary' emergency decrees 'during the recess of the State Duma'. Stolypin's most famous legislative act, the change in peasant land tenure, was promulgated under Article 87.\n\nThe third Duma remained an independent body. This time the members proceeded cautiously. Instead of hurling themselves at the government, opposing parties within the Duma worked to develop the body as a whole. In the classic manner of the British Parliament, the Duma reached for power grasping for the national purse strings. The Duma had the right to question ministers behind closed doors as to their proposed expenditures. These sessions, endorsed by Stolypin, were educational for both sides, and, in time, mutual antagonism was replaced by mutual respect. Even the sensitive area of military expenditure, where the October Manifesto clearly had reserved decisions to the throne, a Duma commission began to operate. Composed of aggressive patriots no less anxious than Nicholas to restore the fallen honour of Russian arms, the Duma commission frequently recommended expenditures even larger than those proposed.\n\nWith the passage of time, Nicholas also began to have confidence in the Duma. \"This Duma cannot be reproached with an attempt to seize power and there is no need at all to quarrel with it,\" he said to Stolypin in 1909. Nevertheless, Stolypin's plans were undercut by conservatives at court. Reactionaries such as Prince Vladimir Nikolayevich Orlov never tired of telling the Tsar that the very existence of the Duma was a blot on the autocracy, which Tsaritsa Alexandra had always believed anyway. Stolypin, they whispered, was a traitor and secret revolutionary who was conniving with the Duma to steal the prerogatives assigned the Tsar by God. Witte also engaged in constant intrigue against Stolypin. Although Stolypin had had nothing to do with Witte's fall, Witte blamed him. Stolypin had unwittingly angered the Tsaritsa. He had ordered an investigation into Rasputin and presented it to the Tsar, who read it but did nothing. Stolypin, on his own authority, ordered Rasputin to leave St. Petersburg. Alexandra protested vehemently but Nicholas refused to overrule his Prime Minister, who had more influence with the Emperor.\n\nBy the time of Stolypin's assassination by Dmitry Bogrov, a student (and police informant) in a theatre in Kiev on 18 September 1911, Stolypin had grown weary of the burdens of office. For a man who preferred clear decisive action, working with a sovereign who believed in fatalism and mysticism was frustrating. As an example, Nicholas once returned a document unsigned with the note:\n\nAlexandra, believing that Stolypin had severed the bonds that her son depended on for life, hated the Prime Minister. In March 1911, in a fit of anger stating that he no longer commanded the imperial confidence, Stolypin asked to be relieved of his office. Two years earlier when Stolypin had casually mentioned resigning to Nicholas he was informed: \"This is not a question of confidence or lack of it. It is my will. Remember that we live in Russia, not abroad...and therefore I shall not consider the possibility of any resignation.\"\n\nIt never got that far. On 18 September 1911, in a procession where Stolypin's car was unprotected, Rasputin had coincidentally returned from his exile. As Stolypin's car passed him, Rasputin cried out in a loud voice, \"Death is after him! Death is driving behind him!\" Bogrov would later assassinate Stolypin in the Kiev theatre that night.\n\nIn 1912, a fourth Duma was elected with almost the same membership as the third. \"The Duma started too fast. Now it is slower, but better, and more lasting,\" stated Nicholas to Sir Bernard Pares.\n\nThe First World War developed badly for Russia. By late 1916, Romanov family desperation reached the point that Grand Duke Paul Alexandrovich, younger brother of Alexander III and the Tsar's only surviving uncle, was deputed to beg Nicholas to grant a constitution and a government responsible to the Duma. Nicholas sternly and adamantly refused, reproaching his uncle for asking him to break his coronation oath to maintain autocratic power for his successors. In the Duma on 2 December 1916, Vladimir Purishkevich, a fervent patriot, monarchist and war worker, denounced the dark forces which surrounded the throne in a thunderous two-hour speech which was tumultuously applauded. \"Revolution threatens,\" he warned, \"and an obscure peasant shall govern Russia no longer!\"\n\nFurther complicating domestic matters was the matter of the succession. Alexandra bore Nicholas four daughters, the Grand Duchess Olga in 1895, the Grand Duchess Tatiana in 1897, Grand Duchess Maria in 1899, and Grand Duchess Anastasia in 1901, before their son Alexei was born on 12 August 1904. The young heir was afflicted with Haemophilia B, a hereditary disease that prevents blood from clotting properly, which at that time was untreatable and usually led to an untimely death. As a granddaughter of Queen Victoria, Alexandra carried the same gene mutation that afflicted several of the major European royal houses, such as Prussia and Spain. Hemophilia therefore became known as \"the royal disease\". Through Alexandra the disease had passed on to her son. As all of Nicholas and Alexandra's daughters perished with their parents and brother in Yekaterinburg in 1918, it is not known whether any of them inherited the gene as carriers.\n\nBecause of the fragility of the autocracy at this time, Nicholas and Alexandra chose not to divulge Alexei's condition to anyone outside the imperial household. In fact, there were many in the household who were unaware of the exact nature of the Tsarevich's illness. At first Alexandra turned to Russian doctors and medics to treat Alexei; however, their treatments generally failed, and Alexandra increasingly turned to mystics and holy men (or \"starets\" as they were called in Russian). One of these starets, an illiterate Siberian named Grigori Rasputin, appeared to have some success. Rasputin's influence over Empress Alexandra, and consequently the Tsar himself, had grown stronger ever since 1912, when the Tsarevich nearly died from an injury while the family was on vacation at the hunting lodges at Białowieża and Spała (Poland). The bleeding grew steadily worse until it was assumed that the Tsarevich would not survive, and the Last Sacrament was administered on 10 October 1912. In desperation Alexandra called upon Rasputin as a last resort, to which he replied, \"God has seen your tears and heard your prayers. Do not grieve. The Little One will not die. Do not allow the doctors to bother him too much.\" The haemorrhage stopped the very next day and the boy began to recover. Alexandra took this as a sign that Rasputin was a \"starets\" and that God was with him; for the rest of her life she would fervently defend him and turn her wrath against anyone who dared to question him.\n\nIn 1907, to end longstanding controversies over central Asia, Russia and Great Britain signed the Anglo-Russian Convention that resolved most of the problems generated for decades by The Great Game. Great Britain had already entered into the Entente cordiale with France in 1904, and the Anglo-Russian convention led to the formation of the Triple Entente. The following year, in May 1908, Nicholas and Alexandra's shared \"Uncle Bertie\" and \"Aunt Alix,\" Britain's King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra made a state visit to Russia, being the first reigning British monarchs to do so. However, they did not set foot on Russian soil. Instead, they stayed aboard their yachts, meeting off the coast of modern-day Tallinn. Later that year, Nicholas was taken off guard by the news that his foreign minister, Alexander Izvolsky had entered into a secret agreement with the Austro-Hungarian foreign minister, Count Alois von Aehrenthal, agreeing that, in exchange for Russian naval access to the Dardanelles and the Bosporus Strait, Russia would not oppose the Austrian annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a revision of the 1878 Treaty of Berlin. When Austria-Hungary did annex this territory that October, it precipitated the diplomatic crisis. When Russia protested about the annexation, the Austrians threatened to leak secret communications between Izvolsky and Aehernthal, prompting Nicholas to complain in a letter to the Austrian emperor, Franz Joseph, about a breach of confidence. In 1909, in the wake of the Anglo-Russian convention, the Russian imperial family made a visit to England, staying on the Isle of Wight for Cowes Week. In 1913, during the Balkan Wars, Nicholas personally offered to arbitrate between Serbia and Bulgaria. However, the Bulgarians rejected his offer. Also in 1913, Nicholas, albeit without Alexandra, made a visit to Berlin for the wedding of Kaiser Wilhelm II's daughter, Princess Victoria Louise, to a maternal cousin of Nicholas, Ernest Augustus, the Duke of Brunswick. Nicholas was also joined by his cousin, King George V and his wife, Queen Mary.\n\nIn February 1913, Nicholas presided over the tercentenary celebrations for the Romanov Dynasty. On 21 February, a \"Te Deum\" took place at Kazan Cathedral, and a state reception at the Winter Palace. In May, Nicholas and the imperial family made a pilgrimage across the empire, retracing the route down the Volga River that was made by the teenage Michael Romanov from the Ipatiev Monastery in Kostroma to Moscow in 1613 when he finally agreed to become tsar.\n\nOn 28 June 1914 Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, was assassinated by a Bosnian Serb in Sarajevo. Nicholas vacillated as to Russia's course of action. The outbreak of war was not inevitable, but leaders, diplomats and nineteenth-century alliances created a climate for large-scale conflict. The concept of Pan-Slavism and shared ethnicity and religion created strong public sympathy between Russia and Serbia. Territorial conflict created rivalries between Germany and France and between Austria and Serbia, and as a consequence alliance networks developed across Europe. The Triple Entente and Triple Alliance networks were set before the war. Nicholas wanted neither to abandon Serbia to the ultimatum of Austria-Hungary, nor to provoke a general war. In a series of letters exchanged with Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany (the \"Willy and Nicky correspondence\") the two proclaimed their desire for peace, and each attempted to get the other to back down. Nicholas desired that Russia's mobilization be only against the Austrian border, in the hopes of preventing war with the German Empire.\n\nOn 25 July 1914, at his council of ministers Tsar Nicholas II decided to intervene in the Austro-Serbian conflict, a step toward general war. He put the Russian army on \"alert\" on 25 July. Although this was not general mobilization, it threatened the German and Austrian borders and looked like military preparation for war. However, his army had no contingency plans for a partial mobilization, and on 30 July 1914 Nicholas took the fateful step of confirming the order for general mobilization, despite being strongly counselled against it.\n\nOn 28 July, Austria-Hungary formally declared war against Serbia. On 29 July 1914, Nicholas II sent a telegram to Wilhelm II with the suggestion to submit the Austro-Serbian problem to the Hague Conference (in Hague tribunal). Wilhelm II did not address the question of the Hague Conference in his subsequent reply. Count Witte told the French Ambassador, Maurice Paléologue that from Russia's point of view the war was madness, Slav solidarity was simply nonsense and Russia could hope for nothing from the war. On 30 July, Russia ordered general mobilisation, but still maintained that it would not attack if peace talks were to begin. Germany, reacting to the discovery of Russian partial mobilisation ordered on 25 July, announced its own pre-mobilisation posture, the Imminent Danger of War. Germany requested that Russia must demobilise within the next twelve hours. In Saint Petersburg, at 7pm, with the ultimatum to Russia expired, the German ambassador to Russia met with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Sazonov, asked three times if Russia would reconsider, and then with shaking hands, delivered the note accepting Russia's war challenge and declaring war on 1 August. Less than a week later, on 6 August, Franz Joseph I of Austria signed the Austro Hungarian declaration of war on Russia.\n\nThe outbreak of war on 1 August 1914 found Russia grossly unprepared. Russia and her allies placed their faith in her army, the famous 'Russian steamroller'. Its pre-war regular strength was 1,400,000; mobilisation added 3,100,000 reserves and millions more stood ready behind them. In every other respect, however, Russia was unprepared for war. Germany had ten times as much railway track per square mile, and whereas Russian soldiers travelled an average of to reach the front, German soldiers travelled less than a quarter of that distance. Russian heavy industry was still too small to equip the massive armies the Tsar could raise, and her reserves of munitions were pitifully small; while the German army in 1914 was better equipped than any other, man-for-man, the Russians were severely short on artillery pieces, shells, motorised transports, and even boots. With the Baltic Sea barred by German U-boats and the Dardanelles by the guns of Germany's ally, the Ottoman Empire, Russia initially could receive help only via Archangel, which was frozen solid in winter, or via Vladivostok, which was over from the front line. By 1915, a rail line was built north from Petrozavodsk to the Kola Gulf and this connection laid the foundation of the ice-free port of what eventually was called Murmansk. The Russian High Command was moreover greatly weakened by the mutual contempt between Vladimir Sukhomlinov, the Minister of War, and the redoubtable warrior giant Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolayevich who commanded the armies in the field. In spite of all of this, an immediate attack was ordered against the German province of East Prussia. The Germans mobilised there with great efficiency and completely defeated the two Russian armies which had invaded. The Battle of Tannenberg, where an entire Russian army was annihilated, cast an ominous shadow over the empire's future. The loyal officers lost were the very ones needed to protect the dynasty. The Russian armies had great success against both the Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman armies from the very beginning of the war, but they never succeeded against the might of the German Army. In September 1914, in order to relieve pressure on France, the Russians were forced to halt a successful offensive against Austria-Hungary in Galicia in order to attack German-held Silesia.\n\nGradually a war of attrition set in on the vast Eastern Front, where the Russians were facing the combined forces of the German and Austro-Hungarian Empires, and they suffered staggering losses. General Denikin, retreating from Galicia wrote, \"The German heavy artillery swept away whole lines of trenches, and their defenders with them. We hardly replied. There was nothing with which we could reply. Our regiments, although completely exhausted, were beating off one attack after another by bayonet ... Blood flowed unendingly, the ranks became thinner and thinner and thinner. The number of graves multiplied.\" On 5 August, with the Russian army in retreat, Warsaw fell. Defeat at the front bred disorder at home. At first, the targets were German, and for three days in June shops, bakeries, factories, private houses and country estates belonging to people with German names were looted and burned.. The inflamed mobs then turned on the government, declaring the Empress should be shut up in a convent, the Tsar deposed and Rasputin hanged. Nicholas was by no means deaf to these discontents. An emergency session of the Duma was summoned and a Special Defense Council established, its members drawn from the Duma and the Tsar's ministers.\n\nIn July 1915, King Christian X of Denmark, first cousin of the Tsar, sent Hans Niels Andersen to Tsarskoye Selo with an offer to act as a mediator. He made several trips between London, Berlin and Petrograd and in July saw the Dowager Empress Maria Fyodorovna. Andersen told her they should conclude peace. Nicholas chose to turn down King Christian's offer of mediation, as he felt it would be a betrayal for Russia to form a separate peace treaty with the Central Powers when its allies Britain and France were still fighting.\n\nThe energetic and efficient General Alexei Polivanov replaced Sukhomlinov as Minister of War, which failed to improve the strategic situation. In the aftermath of the Great Retreat and the loss of the Kingdom of Poland, Nicholas assumed the role of commander-in-chief after dismissing his cousin, Nikolay Nikolayevich, in September 1915. This was a mistake, as the Tsar came to be personally associated with the continuing losses at the front. He was also away at the remote HQ at Mogilev, far from the direct governance of the empire, and when revolution broke out in Petrograd he was unable to halt it. In reality the move was largely symbolic, since all important military decisions were made by his chief-of-staff General Michael Alexeiev, and Nicholas did little more than review troops, inspect field hospitals, and preside over military luncheons.\n\nThe Duma was still calling for political reforms and political unrest continued throughout the war. Cut off from public opinion, Nicholas could not see that the dynasty was tottering. With Nicholas at the front, domestic issues and control of the capital were left with his wife Alexandra. However, Alexandra's relationship with Grigori Rasputin, and her German background, further discredited the dynasty's authority. Nicholas had been repeatedly warned about the destructive influence of Rasputin but had failed to remove him. Rumors and accusations about Alexandra and Rasputin appeared one after another; Alexandra was even accused of harboring treasonous sympathies towards Germany. Anger at Nicholas's failure to act and the extreme damage that Rasputin's influence was doing to Russia's war effort and to the monarchy led to Rasputin's eventual murder by a group of nobles, led by Prince Felix Yusupov and Grand Duke Dmitri Pavlovich, a cousin of the Tsar, in the early morning of Saturday 17 December 1916 (O.S.) / 30 December 1916 (N.S.).\n\nAs the government failed to produce supplies, mounting hardship created massive riots and rebellions. With Nicholas away at the front from 1915 through 1916, authority appeared to collapse and the capital was left in the hands of strikers and mutineering conscript soldiers. Despite efforts by the British Ambassador Sir George Buchanan to warn the Tsar that he should grant constitutional reforms to fend off revolution, Nicholas continued to bury himself away at the Staff HQ (Stavka) away at Moghilev, leaving his capital and court open to intrigues and insurrection.\n\nBy early 1917, Russia was on the verge of total and utter collapse. The army had taken 15 million men from the farms and food prices had soared. An egg cost four times what it had in 1914, butter five times as much. The severe winter dealt the railways, overburdened by emergency shipments of coal and supplies, the final blow.\n\nRussia began the war with 20,000 locomotives; by 1917, 9,000 were in service, while the number of serviceable railway wagons had dwindled from half a million to 170,000. In February 1917, 1,200 locomotives burst their boilers and nearly 60,000 wagons were immobilised. In Petrograd, supplies of flour and fuel had all but disappeared. War-time prohibition of alcohol was enacted by Nicholas to boost patriotism and productivity, but instead damaged the treasury and funding of the war due to the treasury now being deprived of alcohol taxes.\n\nOn 23 February 1917 in Petrograd, a combination of very severe cold weather and acute food shortages caused people to start to break shop windows to get bread and other necessities. In the streets, red banners appeared and the crowds chanted \"Down with the German woman! Down with Protopopov! Down with the war! Down with the Tsar!\"\n\nPolice started to shoot at the populace from rooftops, which incited riots. The troops in the capital were poorly motivated and their officers had no reason to be loyal to the regime. They were angry and full of revolutionary fervor and sided with the populace.\n\nThe Tsar's Cabinet begged Nicholas to return to the capital and offered to resign completely. The Tsar, 800 kilometres (500 mi) away, was misinformed by the Minister of the Interior, Alexander Protopopov, that the situation was under control, and he ordered that firm steps be taken against the demonstrators. For this task, the Petrograd garrison was quite unsuitable. The cream of the old regular army had been destroyed in Poland and Galicia. In Petrograd, 170,000 recruits, country boys or older men from the working-class suburbs of the capital itself, remained to keep control under the command of wounded officers invalided from the front and cadets from the military academies. The units in the capital, although many bore the names of famous Imperial Guard regiments, were in reality rear or reserve battalions of these regiments, the regular units being away at the front. Many units, lacking both officers and rifles, had never undergone formal training.\n\nGeneral Khabalov attempted to put the Tsar's instructions into effect on the morning of Sunday, 11 March 1917. Despite huge posters ordering people to keep off the streets, vast crowds gathered and were only dispersed after some 200 had been shot dead, though a company of the Volinsky Regiment fired into the air rather than into the mob, and a company of the Pavlovsky Life Guards shot the officer who gave the command to open fire. Nicholas, informed of the situation by Rodzianko, ordered reinforcements to the capital and suspended the Duma. However, it was too late.\n\nOn 12 March, the Volinsky Regiment mutinied and was quickly followed by the Semenovsky, the Ismailovsky, the Litovsky and even the legendary Preobrazhensky Regiment of the Imperial Guard, the oldest and staunchest regiment founded by Peter the Great. The arsenal was pillaged, the Ministry of the Interior, Military Government building, police headquarters, the Law Courts and a score of police buildings were put to the torch. By noon, the fortress of Peter and Paul, with its heavy artillery, was in the hands of the insurgents. By nightfall, 60,000 soldiers had joined the revolution.\n\nOrder broke down and members of the Duma and the Soviet formed a Provisional Government to try to restore order. They issued a demand that Nicholas must abdicate. Faced with this demand, which was echoed by his generals, deprived of loyal troops, with his family firmly in the hands of the Provisional Government and fearful of unleashing civil war and opening the way for German conquest, Nicholas had little choice but to submit.\n\nAt the end of the \"February Revolution\" of 1917 (started in February on the Old Russian Calendar), Nicholas II chose to abdicate on 2 March (O.S.) / 15 March (N.S.) 1917. He first abdicated in favour of Alexei, but a few hours later changed his mind after advice from doctors that the Tsarevich would not live long separated from his parents, who would be forced into exile. Nicholas thus abdicated on behalf of his son, and drew up a new manifesto naming his brother, Grand Duke Michael, as the next Emperor of all the Russias. He issued the following statement (which was suppressed by the Provisional Government):\nGrand Duke Michael was proclaimed as \"Emperor Michael II\" to Russian troops and in cities throughout Russia, but his accession was not universally welcomed. While some units cheered and swore allegiance to the new Emperor, others remained indifferent. He subsequently declined to accept the throne until the people were allowed to vote through a Constituent Assembly for the continuance of the monarchy or a republic. The abdication of Nicholas II and Michael's deferment of accepting the throne brought three centuries of the Romanov dynasty's rule to an end. The fall of autocratic Tsardom brought joy to Liberals and Socialists in Britain and France. The United States of America was the first foreign government to recognise the Provisional government. In Russia, the announcement of the Tsar's abdication was greeted with many emotions, including delight, relief, fear, anger and confusion.\n\nNicholas desperately wanted to go into exile in the United Kingdom following his abdication. The British government reluctantly offered the family asylum in the UK on 19 March 1917, although it was suggested that it would be better for the Romanovs to go to a neutral country. News of the offer provoked uproar from the Labour Party and many Liberals, and the British ambassador Sir George Buchanan advised the government that the extreme left would use the ex-Tsar's presence \"as an excuse for rousing public opinion against us\". The offer of asylum was withdrawn in April following objections by King George V, who, acting on the advice of his secretary Arthur Bigge, 1st Baron Stamfordham, was worried that Nicholas's presence in the UK might provoke an uprising like the previous year's Easter Rising in Ireland. The French government declined to accept the Romanovs in view of increasing unrest on the Western Front and on the home front as a result of the ongoing war with Germany. The British ambassador in Paris, Lord Francis Bertie, advised the Foreign Secretary that the Romanovs would be unwelcome in France as the ex-Empress was regarded as pro-German.\n\nIn the early summer of 1917, after an improvement in the internal political situation in Russia, the Russian government approached the UK government on the issue of asylum and was informed the offer had been withdrawn due to the considerations of British internal politics. In August, the Kerensky government evacuated the Romanovs to Tobolsk in the Urals as a winter refuge to protect them from the rising tide of revolution, until the family could be sent abroad in the spring of 1918 via Japan. There they lived in the former Governor's Mansion in considerable comfort. In October 1917, however, the Bolsheviks seized power from Kerensky's Provisional Government; Nicholas followed the events in October with interest but not yet with alarm. Boris Soloviev, the husband of Maria Rasputin, was supposedly organizing rescue attempts with monarchical factions, but none occurred. Rumors persist that Soloviev was working for the Bolsheviks or the Germans, or both.\n\nNicholas continued to underestimate Lenin's importance. In the meantime he and his family occupied themselves with keeping warm. Conditions of imprisonment became more strict, and talk of putting Nicholas on trial grew more frequent. The Tsar was forbidden to wear epaulettes.\n\nOn 1 March 1918, the family was placed on soldier's rations, which meant parting with ten devoted servants and giving up butter and coffee as luxuries. Nicholas and Alexandra were appalled by news of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, whereby Russia agreed to give up Poland, Finland, the Baltic States, the Ukraine, the Crimea and most of the Caucasus. What kept the family's spirits up was the belief that help was at hand. The Romanovs believed that various plots were underway to break them out of captivity and smuggle them to safety. The Western Allies lost interest in the fate of the Romanovs after Russia left the war. The German government wanted the monarchy restored in Russia to crush the Bolsheviks and maintain good relations with the Central Powers. But on 30 April 1918 the Romanovs were transferred to their final destination: the town of Yekaterinburg, where they were imprisoned in the two-storey Ipatiev House, the home of the military engineer Nikolay Nikolayevich Ipatiev, which ominously became referred to as the \"house of special purpose\".\n\nThere are several accounts of what happened and historians have not agreed on a solid, confirmed scope of events. According to the account of Yurovsky (the chief executioner), in the early hours of 17 July 1918, the royal family was awakened around 2:00 am, got dressed, and were led down into a half-basement room at the back of the Ipatiev house. The pretext for this move was the family's safety, i.e. that anti-Bolshevik forces were approaching Yekaterinburg, and the house might be fired upon.\n\nPresent with Nicholas, Alexandra and their children were their doctor and three of their servants, who had voluntarily chosen to remain with the family: the Tsar's personal physician Eugene Botkin, his wife's maid Anna Demidova, and the family's chef, Ivan Kharitonov, and footman, Alexei Trupp. A firing squad had been assembled and was waiting in an adjoining room, composed of seven Communist soldiers from Central Europe, and three local Bolsheviks, all under the command of Bolshevik officer Yakov Yurovsky.\n\nNicholas was carrying his son. When the family arrived in the basement, the former empress complained that there were no chairs for them to sit on. Yurovsky ordered two chairs brought in, and when the empress and the heir were seated, the executioners filed into the room. Yurovsky announced to them that the Ural Soviet of Workers' Deputies had decided to execute them. A stunned Nicholas asked, \"What? What?\" and turned toward his family. Yurovsky quickly repeated the order and Nicholas said, according to Peter Ermakov, \"You know not what you do.\"\n\nThe executioners drew handguns and began shooting; Nicholas was the first to die. Yurovsky took afterwards credit for firing the first shot that killed the Tsar, but his protege – Grigory Nikulin – said years later that Mikhail Medvedev had fired the shot that killed Nicholas. \"He fired the first shot. He killed the Tsar,\" he said in 1964 in a tape-recorded statement for the radio. Nicholas was shot several times in the chest (sometimes incorrectly said to have been shot in his head, but his skull bore no bullet wounds when it was discovered in 1991). Anastasia, Tatiana, Olga, and Maria survived the first hail of bullets; the sisters were wearing over 1.3 kilograms of diamonds and precious gems sewn into their clothing, which provided some initial protection from the bullets and bayonets. First they were stabbed with bayonets and then shot at close range in their heads.\n\nAn announcement from the Presidium of the Ural Regional Soviet of the Workers' and Peasants' Government emphasized that conspiracies had been exposed to free the ex-tsar, that counter-revolutionary forces were pressing in on Soviet Russian territory, and that the ex-tsar was guilty of unforgivable crimes against the nation.\n\nIn view of the enemy's proximity to Yekaterinburg and the exposure by the Cheka of a serious White Guard plot with the goal of abducting the former Tsar and his family… In light of the approach of counterrevolutionary bands toward the Red capital of the Urals and the possibility of the crowned executioner escaping trial by the people (a plot among the White Guards to try to abduct him and his family was exposed and the compromising documents will be published), the Presidium of the Ural Regional Soviet, fulfilling the will of the Revolution, resolved to shoot the former Tsar, Nikolai Romanov, who is guilty of countless, bloody, violent acts against the Russian people.\n\nIn 1979, the bodies of Tsar Nicholas II, Tsaritsa Alexandra, three of their daughters, and those of four non-family members killed with them, were discovered near Sverdlovsk (Yekaterinburg) by amateur archaeologist Alexander Avdonin. In January 1998, the remains excavated from underneath the dirt road near Yekaterinburg were officially identified as those of Nicholas II and his family, excluding one daughter (either Maria or Anastasia) and Alexei. The identifications—including comparisons to a living relative, were performed by separate Russian, British and American scientists using DNA analysis—concur and were found to be conclusive.\n\nIn July 2007, an amateur historian discovered bones near Yekaterinburg belonging to a boy and young woman.\nProsecutors reopened the investigation into the deaths of the imperial family, and in April 2008, DNA tests performed by an American laboratory proved that bone fragments exhumed in the Ural Mountains belonged to two children of Nicholas II, Alexei and a daughter. That same day it was announced by Russian authorities that remains from the entire family had been recovered.\n\nOn 1 October 2008, Supreme Court of Russia ruled that Nicholas II and his family were victims of political persecution and should be rehabilitated. In March 2009, results of the DNA testing were published, confirming that the two bodies discovered in 2007 were those of Alexei and one of his sisters.\n\nIn late 2015, at the insistence of the Russian Orthodox Church, Russian investigators exhumed the bodies of Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra, for additional DNA testing, which confirmed that the bones were of the couple.\n\nAfter the DNA testing of 1998, the remains of the Emperor and his immediate family were interred at St. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Saint Petersburg, on 17 July 1998, on the eightieth anniversary of their executions. The ceremony was attended by Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who said, \"Today is a historic day for Russia. For many years, we kept quiet about this monstrous crime, but the truth has to be spoken.\"\n\nThe British Royal Family was represented at the funeral by Prince Michael of Kent, and more than twenty ambassadors to Russia, including Sir Andrew Wood, Archbishop John Bukovsky, and , were also in attendance.\n\nIn 1981, Nicholas and his immediate family were recognised as martyred saints by the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia. On 14 August 2000, they were recognised by the synod of the Russian Orthodox Church. This time they were not named as martyrs, since their deaths did not result immediately from their Christian faith; instead, they were canonized as passion bearers. According to a statement by the Moscow synod, they were glorified as saints for the following reasons:\n\nHowever, Nicholas's canonization was controversial. The Russian Orthodox Church Abroad was split on the issue back in 1981, some members suggesting that the emperor was a weak ruler and had failed to thwart the rise of the Bolsheviks. It was pointed out by one priest that martyrdom in the Russian Orthodox Church has nothing to do with the martyr's personal actions but is instead related to why he or she was killed.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church inside Russia rejected the family's classification as martyrs because they were not killed on account of their religious faith. Religious leaders in both churches also had objections to canonising the Tsar's family because they perceived him as a weak emperor whose incompetence led to the revolution and the suffering of his people and made him partially responsible for his own murder and those of his wife, children and servants. For these opponents, the fact that the Tsar was, in private life, a kind man and a good husband and father or a leader who showed genuine concern for the peasantry did not override his poor governance of Russia.\n\nDespite the original opposition, the Russian Orthodox Church inside Russia ultimately recognised the family as \"passion bearers,\" or people who met their deaths with Christian humility.\n\nHistorian Raymond Esthus states:\n\nNicholas is generally considered to have been incompetent at the colossal task of ruling the enormous Russian Empire. Historian Barbara Tuchman gives a damning evaluation of his reign:\n\nIn Russia, Nicholas II faced widespread criticism after the victory of the Revolution. Pavel Bykov, who in Russia wrote the first full account about the downfall of the Tsar, denounced Nicholas as a \"tyrant, who paid with his life for the age-old repression and arbitrary rule of his ancestors over the Russian people, over the impoverished and blood-soaked country\". Soviet-era historians noted that Nicholas II was not fit to be a statesman. It has been argued that he had a weak will and was manipulated by adventurist forces. His regime was condemned for extensive use of the army, police, and courts to destroy the revolutionary movement. He was criticised for fanning nationalism and chauvinism. With the punitive expeditions and courts-martial during the 1905 Revolution, the monarch became known as \"Nicholas the Bloody\". Nicholas's reign was seen as a time of suffering for Russians.\n\nRobert K. Massie provides a more sympathetic view of the Tsar:\n\nNicholas II's full title as Emperor, as set forth in Article 59 of the 1906 Constitution, was: \"By the Grace of God, We Nicholas, Emperor and Autocrat of All the Russias, of Moscow, Kiev, Vladimir, Novgorod; Tsar of Kazan, Tsar of Astrakhan, Tsar of Poland, Tsar of Siberia, Tsar of Tauric Chersonesus, Lord of Pskov, and Grand Prince of Smolensk, Lithuania, Volhynia, Podolia, and Finland; Prince of Estonia, Livonia, Courland and Semigalia, Samogitia, Bielostok, Karelia, Tver, Yugor, Perm, Vyatka, Bogar and others; Sovereign and Grand Prince of Nizhni Novgorod, Chernigov, Ryazan, Polotsk, Rostov, Jaroslavl, Beloozero, Udoria, Obdoria, Kondia, Vitebsk, Mstislav, and Ruler of all the Severian country; Sovereign and Lord of Iveria, Kartalinia, the Kabardian lands and Armenian province: hereditary Sovereign and Possessor of the Circassian and Mountain Princes and of others; Sovereign of Turkestan, Heir of Norway, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein, Stormarn, Dithmarschen, and Oldenburg, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth.\"\n\nEmperor Nicholas II Land (, \"Zemlya Imperatora Nikolaya II\") was discovered in 1913 by the Arctic Ocean Hydrographic Expedition led by Boris Vilkitsky on behalf of the Russian Hydrographic Service. Still incompletely surveyed, the new territory was officially named in the Emperor's honour by order of the Secretary of the Imperial Navy in 1914. The archipelago was renamed \"Severnaya Zemlya\" in 1926 by the Presidium of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union.\nNicholas II was granted honorary senior rank in a number of foreign armies, reciprocating by extending similar distinctions to a number of his fellow monarchs. These included the Imperial German, Spanish, Italian, Danish and British armies.\n\nHe was Colonel-in-Chief of the Royal Scots Greys from 1894 until his death. On becoming Colonel-in-Chief he presented the Regiment with a white bearskin, now worn by the bass drummer of the Pipes and Drums of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards. The Imperial Russian anthem is still played at dinner nights in the Officers' Mess, where there remains a portrait of the Tsar in Scots Greys uniform. Since his death, the Regiment has worn a black backing behind its cap badge as a symbol of mourning.\n\nEstimates of Nicholas II's personal wealth have been vastly exaggerated. As \"Emperor of All The Russias\", and an autocrat, the resources under his command were virtually incalculable. However, the vast majority of this was owned by the state as Crown property; the Romanov family's \"personal wealth\" was only a small fraction of this. As monarch, the income of Nicholas was 24 million gold roubles per annum: this derived from a yearly allowance from the Treasury, and from the profits of Crown farmland. From this income, he had to fund staff, the upkeep of imperial palaces and imperial theatres, annuities for the royal family, pensions, bequests, and other outgoings. \"Before the end of the year, the Tsar was usually penniless; sometimes he reached this embarrassing state by autumn.\" According to the Grand Marshal of the Court, Count Paul Benckendorff, the family's total financial resources amounted to between 12.5 and 17.5 million roubles. As a comparison, Prince Felix Yussupov estimated his family's worth in real estate holdings alone as amounting to 50 million gold roubles.\n\nSeveral films about Nicholas II and his family have been made, including \"Anastasia\" (1956), \"Nicholas and Alexandra\" (1971), \"\" (1986), \"\" (1996 HBO), \"Anastasia\" (1997), and two Russian adaptations \"Assassin of the Tsar\" (1991) and \"\" (2000).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17096874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17096874", "title": "Popular Army (Iraq)", "text": "Popular Army (Iraq)\n\nThe Iraqi Popular Army also known as the People's Army or People's Militia (Arabic: الجيش الشعبي \"Al Jaysh ash Shaabi\") was a paramilitary organization composed of civilian volunteers to protect the Ba'ath regime against internal opposition and serve as a counterbalance against any coup attempt by the regular Iraqi Army.\n\nIn 1987, the People's Army, standing at an estimated 650,000, approached the regular armed forces' manpower strength.\n\nOfficially, it was the Iraqi Baath Party Militia and included a special youth section. Formed in 1970, the People's Army grew rapidly, and by 1977 it was estimated to have 50,000 active members. Subsequently, a phenomenal growth, giving the militia extensive internal security functions, occurred. Whereas its original purpose was to give the Baath Party an active role in every town and village, the People's Army in 1981 began its most ambitious task to date, the support of the regular armed forces.\n\nThe official functions of the People's Army were to act as backup to the regular armed forces in times of war and to safeguard revolutionary achievements, to promote mass consciousness, to consolidate national unity, and to bolster the relationship between the people and the army in times of peace. The People's Army dispatched units to Iraqi Kurdistan before 1980 and to Lebanon to fight with Palestinian guerrillas during the 1975–76 Civil War. Foreign observers concluded, however, that the primary function of the People's Army was political in nature; first, to enlist popular support for the Baath Party, and second, to act as a counterweight against any coup attempts by the regular armed forces.\n\nBeginning in 1974, Taha Yassin Ramadan, a close associate of President Saddam Hussein, commanded the People's Army, which was responsible for internal security. The command of such a large military establishment gave Ramadan so much power, however, that some foreign observers speculated that the primary function of his second in command was to keep him from using the People's Army as a personal power base.\n\nPeople's Army members were recruited from among both women and men (who had completed their regular army service) eighteen years of age and older. It was unclear whether or not Baath Party membership was a prerequisite—especially after 1981 when the numerical strength of the People's Army ballooned—but, clearly, party indoctrination was at least as important as military training. Members usually underwent a two-month annual training period, and they were paid from party funds. Although the extent of their training was unknown in early 1988, all recruits were instructed in the use of a rifle. Graduates were responsible for guarding government buildings and installations, and they were concentrated around sensitive centers in major towns. Militia members possessed some sophisticated arms, and it was possible that disgruntled officers contemplating a challenge to Saddam Hussein could rally the support of a force of such militiamen.\n\nThe People's Army was sent into Iraqi Kurdistan before 1980 and even out of the country to such hot spots as Lebanon to fight with Palestinian guerrillas during the 1975–76 Civil War.\n\nIt was only dissolved when Taha Yassin Ramadan became Vice President of Iraq in 1991.\n\nThe First Battle of Al-Faw, fought on February 11, 1986, was a battle of the Iran–Iraq War. The Iranians launched a surprise attack against the Iraqi troops defending the al-Faw Peninsula. The Iraqi units in charge of the defenses were mostly made up of poorly trained Iraqi Popular Army conscripts that collapsed when they were suddenly attacked by the Iranian Pasdaran (Revolutionary Guard) forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "390372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390372", "title": "Ramon Magsaysay", "text": "Ramon Magsaysay\n\nRamón del Fierro Magsaysay Sr. (August 31, 1907 – March 17, 1957) was a Filipino politician who was the seventh President of the Philippines, serving from December 30, 1953 until his death in an aircraft disaster. An automobile mechanic, Magsaysay was appointed military governor of Zambales after his outstanding service as a guerilla leader during the Pacific War. He then served two terms as Liberal Party congressman for Zambales before being appointed as Secretary of National Defense by President Elpidio Quirino. He was elected president under the banner of the Nacionalista Party.\n\nHe was the first Philippine president born during the 20th century and the first to be born after the Spanish colonial era.\n\nRamon del Fierro Magsaysay, of mixed Tagalog and Ilocano descent, was born in Iba, Zambales on August 31, 1907 to Exequiel Magsaysay y de los Santos (April 18, 1874 in San Marcelino, Zambales – January 24, 1969 in Manila), a blacksmith, and Perfecta del Fierro y Quimson (April 18, 1886 in Castillejos, Zambales – May 5, 1981 in Manila), a schoolteacher.\n\nHe spent his grade school life somewhere in Castillejos and his high school life at Zambales Academy in San Narciso, Zambales. After high school, Magsaysay entered the University of the Philippines in 1927, where he enrolled in a pre-medical course. He worked as a chauffeur to support himself as he studied engineering; and later, he transferred to the Institute of Commerce at José Rizal College (1928–1932), where he received a baccalaureate in commerce. He then worked as an automobile mechanic in a bus company (Florida) and shop superintendent.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, he joined the motor pool of the 31st Infantry Division of the Philippine Army. When Bataan surrendered in 1942, Magsaysay escaped to the hills, narrowly evading Japanese arrest on at least four occasions. There he organised the Western Luzon Guerrilla Forces, and was commissioned captain on April 5, 1942. For three years, Magsaysay operated under Col. Merrill's famed guerrilla outfit & saw action at Sawang, San Marcelino, Zambales, first as a supply officer codenamed \"Chow\" and later as commander of a 10,000 strong force. Magsaysay was among those instrumental in clearing the Zambales coast of the Japanese prior to the landing of American forces together with the Philippine Commonwealth troops on January 29, 1945.\n\nHe was married to Luz Magsaysay (\"née\" Banzon) on June 16, 1933 and they had three children: Teresita \"Sita\" Banzon-Magsaysay (1934–1979), Milagros \"Mila\" Banzon-Magsaysay (b. 1936) and Ramon \"Jun\" Banzon-Magsaysay, Jr. (b. 1938).\n\nSeveral of Magsaysay's relatives became prominent public figures in their own right:\n\nOn April 22, 1946, Magsaysay, encouraged by his ex-guerrillas, was elected under the Liberal Party to the Philippine House of Representatives. In 1948, President Manuel Roxas chose Magsaysay to go to Washington as Chairman of the Committee on Guerrilla Affairs, to help to secure passage of the Rogers Veterans Bill, giving benefits to Philippine veterans. In the so-called \"dirty election\" of 1949, he was re-elected to a second term in the House of Representatives. During both terms he was Chairman of the House National Defense Committee.\n\nIn early August 1950, he offered President Elpidio Quirino a plan to fight the Communist guerillas, using his own experiences in guerrilla warfare during World War II. After some hesitation, Quirino realized that there was no alternative and appointed Magsaysay Secretary of National Defence on August 31, 1950. He intensified the campaign against the Hukbalahap guerillas. This success was due in part to the unconventional methods he took up from a former advertising expert and CIA agent, Colonel Edward Lansdale. In the counterinsurgency the two utilized deployed soldiers distributing relief goods and other forms of aid to outlying, provincial communities. Prior to Magsaysay's appointment as Defense Secretary, rural citizens perceived the Philippine Army with apathy and distrust. However, Magsaysay's term enhanced the Army's image, earning them respect and admiration.\n\nIn June 1952, Magsaysay made a goodwill tour to the United States and Mexico. He visited New York, Washington, D.C. (with a medical check-up at Walter Reed Hospital) and Mexico City where he spoke at the Annual Convention of Lions International.\n\nBy 1953, President Quirino thought the threat of the Huks was under control and Secretary Magsaysay was becoming too weak. Magsaysay met with interference and obstruction from the President and his advisers, in fear they might be unseated at the next presidential election. Although Magsaysay had at that time no intention to run, he was urged from many sides and finally was convinced that the only way to continue his fight against communism, and for a government for the people, was to be elected president, ousting the corrupt administration that, in his opinion, had caused the rise of the communist guerrillas by bad administration. He resigned his post as defense secretary on February 28, 1953, and became the presidential candidate of the Nacionalista Party, disputing the nomination with senator Camilo Osías at the Nacionalista national convention.\n\n When news reached Magsaysay that his political ally Moises Padilla was being tortured by men of provincial governor Rafael Lacson, he rushed to Negros Occidental, but was too late. He was then informed that Padilla's body was swimming in blood, pierced by fourteen bullets, and was positioned on a police bench in the town plaza. Magsaysay himself carried Padilla's corpse with his bare hands and delivered it to the morgue, and the next day, news clips showed pictures of him doing so. Magsaysay even used this event during his presidential campaign in 1953.\n\nThe trial against Lacson started in January 1952; Magsaysay and his men presented enough evidence to convict Lacson and his 26 men for murder. In August 1954, Judge Eduardo Enríquez ruled the men were guilty and Lacson, his 22 men and three other mayors of Negros Occidental municipalities were condemned to the electric chair.\n\nPresidential elections were held on November 10, 1953 in the Philippines. Incumbent President Elpidio Quirino lost his opportunity for a second full term as President of the Philippines to former Defense Secretary Magsaysay. His running mate, Senator José Yulo lost to Senator Carlos P. García. Vice President Fernando Lopez did not run for re-election. This was the first time that an elected Philippine president did not come from the Senate. Moreover, Magsaysay started the practice in the Philippines of \"campaign jingles\" during elections, for one of his inclinations and hobbies was dancing.\n\nThe United States Government, including the Central Intelligence Agency, had a strong influence on the 1953 elections, and candidates in the election fiercely competed with each other for U.S. support.\n\nIn the Election of 1953, Magsaysay was decisively elected president over the incumbent Elpidio Quirino. He was sworn into office wearing the Barong Tagalog, a first by a Philippine president. He was then called \"Mambo Magsaysay\".\n\nAs president, he was a close friend and supporter of the United States and a vocal spokesman against communism during the Cold War. He led the foundation of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, also known as the Manila Pact of 1954, that aimed to defeat communist-Marxist movements in South East Asia, South Asia and the Southwestern Pacific.\n\nDuring his term, he made Malacañang literally a \"house of the people\", opening its gates to the public. One example of his integrity followed a demonstration flight aboard a new plane belonging to the Philippine Air Force (PAF): President Magsaysay asked what the operating costs per hour were for that type of aircraft, then wrote a personal check to the PAF, covering the cost of his flight. He restored the people's trust in the military and in the government.\n\nMagsaysay's administration was considered one of the cleanest and most corruption-free in modern Philippines history; the period of his presidency is often cited as the Philippines's \"Golden Years\". Trade and industry flourished, the Philippine military was at its prime, and the country gained international recognition in sports, culture, and foreign affairs. The Philippines placed second on a ranking of Asia's clean and well-governed countries.\n\nUshering a new era in Philippine government, President Magsaysay placed emphasis upon service to the people by bringing the government closer to the former. This was symbollically seen when, on inauguration day, President Magsaysay ordered the gates of Malacañan Palace open to all and sundry, who were allowed to freely visit all the dependencies of the presidential mansion. Later, this was regulated to allow weekly visitation.\n\nTrue to his electoral promise, President Magsaysay created the Presidential Complaints and Action Committee. This body immediately proceeded to hear grievances and recommend remedial action. Headed by soft-spoken, but active and tireless, Manuel Manahan, this committee would come to hear nearly 60,000 complaints in a year, of which more than 30,000 would be settled by direct action and a little more than 25,000 would be referred to government agencies for appropriate follow-up. This new entity, composed of youthful personnel, all loyal to the President, proved to be a highly successful morale booster restoring the people's confidence in their own government. He Appointed Zotico Tex Paderanga Carrillo his Close Aide and Secretary 1953, as PCAC Chief for Mindanao and Sulu, he became a close friend to the president because of his charisma to the Common people of Mindanao. Zotico is a local Journalist and an esteemed writer from a Prominent Family in Camiguin Island, Misamis Oriental, Zotico become a depository of complaints and an eye of the president in the region his diplomatic skills became a passage for the government, moro and the rebels to hear the real situation in every city and municipalities. with his zero curruption mandate he recognise a turn of achievement of Zotico that made him his compadre when Zotico named his 5th child after the President when he won the Election in 1953 Ramon Magsaysay P. Carrillo became one of the many God children of the president. President Magsaysay also Visited Mindanao several times because of this Friendship he is the first President visited Camiguin Island. Where thousand of people waited for his arrival in one of the Port in Camiguin Island. \n\nPresident Ramon F. Magsaysay was the first president who regularly wore the Barong Tagalog (national costume). He set an example of humility by insisting that he be called \"Mr. President\" and not \"His Excellency\". (Ryan A. Gragasin)\n\nTo amplify and stabilize the functions of the Economic Development Corps (EDCOR), President Magsaysay worked for the establishment of the National Resettlement and Rehabilitation Administration (NARRA). This body took over from the EDCOR and helped in the giving some sixty-five thousand acres to three thousand indigent families for settlement purposes. Again, it allocated some other twenty-five thousand to a little more than one thousand five hundred landless families, who subsequently became farmers.\n\nAs further aid to the rural people, the president established the Agricultural Credit and Cooperative Financing Administration (ACCFA). The idea was for this entity to make available rural credits. Records show that it did grant, in this wise, almost ten million dollars. This administration body next devoted its attention to cooperative marketing.\n\nAlong this line of help to the rural areas, President Magsaysay initiated in all earnestness the artesian wells campaign. A group-movement known as the Liberty Wells Association was formed and in record time managed to raise a considerable sum for the construction of as many artesian wells as possible. The socio-economic value of the same could not be gainsaid and the people were profuse in their gratitude.\n\nFinally, vast irrigation projects, as well as enhancement of the Ambuklao Power plant and other similar ones, went a long way towards bringing to reality the rural improvement program advocated by President Magsaysay.\n\nPresident Ramon Magsaysay enacted the following laws as part of his Agrarian Reform Program:\n\nIn early 1954, Benigno Aquino, Jr. was appointed by President Ramon Magsaysay to act as personal emissary to Luís Taruc, leader of the rebel group, Hukbalahap. Also in 1954, Lt. Col. Laureño Maraña, the former head of Force X of the 16th PC Company, assumed command of the 7th BCT, which had become one of the most mobile striking forces of the Philippine ground forces against the Huks, from Colonel Valeriano. Force X employed psychological warfare through combat intelligence and infiltration that relied on secrecy in planning, training, and execution of attack. The lessons learned from Force X and Nenita were combined in the 7th BCT.\n\nWith the all out anti-dissidence campaigns against the Huks, they numbered less than 2,000 by 1954 and without the protection and support of local supporters, active Huk resistance no longer presented a serious threat to Philippine security. From February to mid-September 1954, the largest anti-Huk operation, \"Operation Thunder-Lightning\" was conducted that resulted in the surrender of Luis Taruc on 17 May. Further cleanup operations of the remaining guerillas lasted throughout 1955, diminishing its number to less than 1,000 by year's end.\n\nThe administration of President Magsaysay was active in the fight against the expansion of communism in the Asian region. He made the Philippines a member of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO), which was established in Pepe Land on September 8, 1954 during the \"Manila Conference\". Members of SEATO were alarmed at the possible victory of North Vietnam over South Vietnam, which could spread communist ideology to other countries in the region. The possibility that a communist state can influence or cause other countries to adopt the same system of government is called the domino theory.\n\nThe active coordination of the Magsaysay administration with the Japanese government led to the Reparation Agreement. This was an agreement between the two countries, obligating the Japanese government to pay $550 million as reparation for war damages in the Philippines.\n\nTaking the advantage of the presence of U.S. Secretary John Foster Dulles in Manila to attend the SEATO Conference, the Philippine government took steps to broach with him the establishment of a Joint Defense Council. Vice-President and Secretary of Foreign Affairs Carlos P. Garcia held the opportune conversations with Secretary Dulles for this purpose. Agreement was reached thereon and the first meeting of the Joint United States-Philippines Defense Council was held in Manila following the end of the Manila Conference. Thus were the terms of the Mutual Defense Pact between the Philippines and the United States duly implemented.\n\nThe Magsaysay administration negotiated the Laurel-Langley Agreement which was a trade agreement between the Philippines and the United States which was signed in 1955 and expired in 1974. Although it proved deficient, the final agreement satisfied nearly all of the diverse Filipino economic interests. While some have seen the Laurel-Langley agreement as a continuation of the 1946 trade act, Jose P. Laurel and other Philippine leaders recognized that the agreement substantially gave the country greater freedom to industrialize while continuing to receive privileged access to US markets.\n\nThe agreement replaced the unpopular Bell Trade Act, which tied the economy of the Philippines to that of United States economy.\n\nBilled as an all-Oriental meet to promote Afro-Asian economic and cultural cooperation and to oppose colonialism or neocolonialism by either the United States or the Soviet Union in the Cold War, or any other imperialistic nations, the Asian–African Conference was held in Bandung (Java) in April 1955, upon invitation extended by the Prime Ministers of India, Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon, and Indonesia. The conference is commonly known as the Bandung Conference. Although, at first, the Magsaysay Government seemed reluctant to send any delegation. Later, however, upon advise of Ambassador Carlos P. Rómulo, it was decided to have the Philippines participate in the conference. Rómulo was asked to head the Philippine delegation. At the very outset indications were to the effect that the conference would promote the cause of neutralism as a third position in the current cold war between the capitalist bloc and the communist group. John Kotelawala, Prime Minister of Ceylon, however, broke the ice against neutralism. He was immediately joined by Rómulo, who categorically stated that his delegation believed that \"a puppet is a puppet\", no matter whether under a Western Power or an Oriental state.\n\nAt one time in the course of the conference, Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru acidly spoke against the SEATO. Quick to draw, Ambassador Rómulo delivered a stinging, eloquent retort that prompted Prime Minister Nehru to publicly apologize to the Philippine delegation.\n\nRecords had it that the Philippine delegation ably represented the interests of the Philippines and, in the ultimate analysis, succeeded in turning the Bandung Conference into a victory against the plans of its socialist and neutralist delegates.\n\nFollowing the reservations made by Ambassador Romulo, on the Philippines behalf, upon signing the Japanese Peace Treaty in San Francisco on September 8, 1951, for several years of series of negotiations were conducted by the Philippine government and that of Japan. In the face of adamant claims of the Japanese government that it found impossible to meet the demand for the payment of eight billion dollars by the way of reparations, president Magsaysay, during a so-called \"cooling off\" period, sent a Philippine Reparations Survey Committee, headed by Finance Secretary Jaime Hernandez, to Japan for an \"on the spot\" study of that country's possibilities.\nWhen the Committee reported that Japan was in a position to pay, Ambassador Felino Neri, appointed chief negotiator, went to Tokyo. On May 31, 1955, Ambassador Neri reached a compromise agreement with Japanese Minister Takazaki, the main terms of which consisted in the following: The Japanese government would pay eight hundred million dollars as reparations. Payment was to be made in this wise: Twenty million dollars would be paid in cash in Philippine currency; thirty million dollars, in services; five million dollars, in capital goods; and two hundred and fifty million dollars, in long-term industrial loans.\n\nOn August 12, 1955, President Magsaysay informed the Japanese government, through Prime Minister Ichiro Hatoyama, that the Philippines accepted the Neri-Takazaki agreement. In view of political developments in Japan, the Japanese Prime Minister could only inform the Philippine government of the Japanese acceptance of said agreement on March 15, 1956. The official Reparations agreement between the two government was finally signed at Malacañang Palace on May 9, 1956, thus bringing to a rather satisfactory conclusion this long drawn controversy between the two countries.\n\nMagsaysay's term, which was to end on December 30, 1957, was cut short by a plane crash. On March 16, 1957, Magsaysay left Manila for Cebu City where he spoke at three educational institutions. That same night, at about 1 am, he boarded the presidential plane \"Mt. Pinatubo\", a C-47, heading back to Manila. In the early morning hours of March 17, the plane was reported missing. By late afternoon, newspapers had reported the airplane had crashed on Mt. Manunggal in Cebu, and that 36 of the 56 aboard were killed. The actual number on board was 25, including Magsaysay. Only newspaperman Néstor Mata survived. Vice-President Carlos García, who was on an official visit to Australia at the time, assumed the presidency to serve out the last eight months of Magsaysay's term.\n\nIn his tragic death, he was survived by his widow, First Lady Luz Magsaysay (1914–2004), then 43 years old alongside with his three grown-up children, daughters Teresita (1934–1979) then 23, Milagros (1936–), then aged 21 and his only son Ramon 'Jun' Jr. (1938–), then aged 18, as well as his elderly parents, Exequiel and Perfecta Magsaysay who were both still living in their old ages of 83 and 71 at that time.\n\nAn estimated 2 million people attended Magsaysay's state funeral on March 22, 1957. He was posthumously referred to as the \"Idol of the Masses\".\n\nNational Honors\n\nForeign Honors\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93759", "title": "Richard Branson", "text": "Richard Branson\n\nSir Richard Charles Nicholas Branson (born 18 July 1950) is an English business magnate, investor, author and philanthropist. He founded the Virgin Group, which controls more than 400 companies.\n\nBranson expressed his desire to become an entrepreneur at a young age. His first business venture, at the age of 16, was a magazine called \"Student\". In 1970, he set up a mail-order record business. He opened a chain of record stores, Virgin Records—later known as Virgin Megastores—in 1972. Branson's Virgin brand grew rapidly during the 1980s, as he set up Virgin Atlantic airline and expanded the Virgin Records music label. In 2004, he founded spaceflight corporation Virgin Galactic, based at Mojave Air and Space Port, noted for the SpaceShipTwo suborbital spaceplane designed for space tourism.\n\nIn March 2000, Branson was knighted at Buckingham Palace for \"services to entrepreneurship\". For his work in retail, music and transport (with interests in land, air, sea and space travel), his taste for adventure, and for his humanitarian work, he has become a prominent global figure. In 2007, he was placed in \"Time magazine\"'s list of the 100 Most Influential People in The World.\n\nIn June 2018, \"Forbes\" listed Branson's estimated net worth at US$5.1 billion.\n\nBranson was born in Blackheath, London, the eldest of three children of Eve Branson (\"née\" Evette Huntley Flindt; born 1924), a former ballet dancer and air hostess, and Edward James Branson (1918–2011), a barrister. He has two younger sisters. His grandfather, the Right Honourable Sir George Arthur Harwin Branson, was a judge of the High Court of Justice and a Privy Councillor. Branson was educated at Scaitcliffe School, a prep school in Surrey, before briefly attending Cliff View House School in Sussex.\n\nHis third great-grandfather, John Edward Branson, left England for India in 1793; John Edward's father, Harry Wilkins Branson, later joined him in Madras. On the show \"Finding Your Roots\", Branson was shown to have 3.9% South Asian (Indian) DNA, likely through intermarriage. He attended Stowe School, an independent school in Buckinghamshire until the age of sixteen.\n\nBranson has dyslexia and had poor academic performance; on his last day at school, his headmaster, Robert Drayson, told him he would either end up in prison or become a millionaire. Branson's parents were supportive of his endeavours from an early age. His mother was an entrepreneur; one of her most successful ventures was building and selling wooden tissue boxes and wastepaper bins. In London he started off squatting between 1967 and 1968.\n\nAfter failed attempts to grow and sell both Christmas trees and budgerigars, Branson launched his first successful business, a magazine named Student, in 1966. The first issue of \"Student\" appeared in January 1968, and a year later, Branson's net worth was estimated at £50,000. Branson started his record business from the church where he ran \"Student\" magazine. He interviewed several prominent personalities of the late 1960s for the magazine including Mick Jagger and R. D. Laing. Branson advertised popular records in \"Student\", and it was an overnight success. His business sold records for considerably less than the \"High Street\" outlets, especially the chain W. H. Smith. Branson once said, \"There is no point in starting your own business unless you do it out of a sense of frustration.\" At the time, many products were sold under restrictive marketing agreements that limited discounting, despite efforts in the 1950s and 1960s to limit so-called resale price maintenance.\n\nBranson eventually started a record shop in Oxford Street in London. In 1971, he was questioned in connection with the selling of records that had been declared export stock. The matter was never brought before a court because Branson agreed to repay any unpaid VAT of 33% and a £70,000 fine. His parents re-mortgaged the family home in order to help pay the settlement.\n\nEarning enough money from his record store, Branson in 1972 launched the record label Virgin Records with Nik Powell. The name \"Virgin\" was suggested by one of Branson's early employees because they were all new at business. Branson bought a country estate north of Oxford in which he installed a residential recording studio, The Manor Studio. He leased studio time to fledgling artists, including multi-instrumentalist Mike Oldfield, whose debut album \"Tubular Bells\" (1973) was the first release for Virgin Records and became a chart-topping best-seller.\n\nVirgin signed such controversial bands as the Sex Pistols, which other companies were reluctant to sign. Virgin Records would go on to sign other artists including the Rolling Stones, Peter Gabriel, XTC, Japan, UB40, Steve Winwood and Paula Abdul, and to become the world's largest independent record label. It also won praise for exposing the public to such obscure avant-garde music as Faust and Can. Virgin Records also introduced Culture Club to the music world.\n\nBranson's net worth was estimated at £5 million by 1979, and a year later, Virgin Records went international.\n\nBranson's first successful entry into the airline industry was during a trip to Puerto Rico. His flight was cancelled, so he decided to charter his own plane the rest of the way and offer a ride to the rest of the stranded passengers for a small fee in order to cover the cost.\n\nIn 1982, Virgin purchased the gay nightclub Heaven. In 1991, in a consortium with David Frost, Branson made an unsuccessful bid for three ITV franchisees under the CPV-TV name. The early 1980s also saw his only attempt as a producer—on the novelty record \"Baa, Baa, Black Sheep\", by Singing Sheep in association with Doug McLean and Grace McDonald. The recording was a series of sheep baa-ing along to a drum-machine-produced track and reached number 42 in the UK charts in 1982.\n\nBranson formed Virgin Atlantic Airways and Virgin Cargo in 1984. He formed Virgin Holidays in 1985.\n\nIn 1992, to keep his airline company afloat, Branson sold the Virgin label to EMI for £500 million. Branson said that he wept when the sale was completed because the record business had been the very start of the Virgin empire. In 1993, Branson took what many saw as being one of his riskier business exploits by entering into the railway business. Virgin Trains won the franchises for the former Intercity West Coast and Cross-Country sectors of British Rail. He created V2 Records in 1996 in order to re-enter the music business, owning 5% himself. Virgin also acquired European short-haul airline Euro Belgian Airlines and renamed it Virgin Express.\n\nA series of disputes in the early 1990s caused tension between Virgin Atlantic and British Airways, which viewed Virgin as an emerging competitor. Virgin subsequently accused British Airways of poaching its passengers, hacking its computers, and leaking stories to the press that portrayed Virgin negatively. After the so-called campaign of \"dirty tricks\", British Airways settled the case, giving £500,000 to Branson, a further £110,000 to his airline, and had to pay legal fees of up to £3 million. Branson distributed his compensation (the so-called \"BA bonus\") among his staff.\n\nBranson launched Virgin Mobile in 1999, and Virgin Blue in Australia (now named Virgin Australia) in 2000.\n\nOn 25 September 2004, Branson announced the signing of a deal under which a new space tourism company, Virgin Galactic, will license the technology behind SpaceshipOne—funded by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen and designed by aeronautical engineer Burt Rutan—to take paying passengers into suborbital space. Virgin Galactic (wholly owned by Virgin Group) plans to make flights available to the public with tickets priced at US$200,000 using the Scaled Composites White Knight Two. The spacecraft, SpaceShipTwo, is manufactured by The Spaceship Company, which was founded by Branson and Rutan and is now solely owned by Virgin Galactic. In 2013, Branson said that he planned to take his two children, 31-year-old Holly and 28-year-old Sam, on a trip to outer space when they ride the SpaceShipTwo rocket plane on its first public flight, then planned for 2014. As part of his promotion of the firm, Branson has added a variation of the Virgin Galactic livery to his personal business jet, the Dassault Falcon 900EX \"Galactic Girl\" (G-GALX).\n\nHe was ninth in \"The Sunday Times\" Rich List 2006 of the wealthiest people or families in the UK, worth slightly more than £3 billion. Branson wrote in his autobiography of the decision to start an airline.\n\nIn 2006, the airline was merged with SN Brussels Airlines forming Brussels Airlines. It also started a national airline based in Nigeria, called Virgin Nigeria, which ceased operations in 2009. Another airline, Virgin America, began flying out of San Francisco International Airport in August 2007.\n\nBranson's next venture with the Virgin group was Virgin Fuels, which was set up to respond to global warming and exploit the recent spike in fuel costs by offering a revolutionary, cheaper fuel for automobiles and, in the near future, aircraft. Branson has stated that he was formerly a global warming sceptic and was influenced in his decision by a breakfast meeting with Al Gore.\n\nOn 21 September 2006, Branson pledged to invest the profits of Virgin Atlantic and Virgin Trains in research for environmentally-friendly fuels. The investment is estimated to be worth $3 billion.\n\nOn 4 July 2006, Branson sold his Virgin Mobile company to UK cable TV, broadband, and telephone company NTL/ for almost £1 billion. A new company was launched with much fanfare and publicity on 8 February 2007, under the name Virgin Media. The decision to merge his Virgin Media Company with NTL was to integrate both of the companies' compatible parts of commerce. Branson used to own three-quarters of Virgin Mobile, whereas now he owns 15 percent of the new Virgin Media company.\n\nIn 2006, Branson formed Virgin Comics and Virgin Animation, an entertainment company focused on creating new stories and characters for a global audience. The company was founded with author Deepak Chopra, filmmaker Shekhar Kapur, and entrepreneurs Sharad Devarajan and Gotham Chopra. Branson also launched the Virgin Health Bank on 1 February 2007, offering parents-to-be the opportunity to store their baby's umbilical cord blood stem cells in private and public stem-cell banks.\nIn June 2006, a tip-off from Virgin Atlantic led both UK and US competition authorities to investigate price-fixing attempts between Virgin Atlantic and British Airways. In August 2007, British Airways was fined £271 million over the allegations. Virgin Atlantic was given immunity for tipping off the authorities and received no fine—a controversial decision the Office of Fair Trading defended as being in the public interest.On 9 February 2007, Branson announced the setting up of a new global science and technology prize—The Virgin Earth Challenge—in the belief that history has shown that prizes of this nature encourage technological advancements for the good of mankind. The Virgin Earth Challenge was to award $25 million to the individual or group who are able to demonstrate a commercially viable design that will result in the net removal of anthropogenic, atmospheric greenhouse gases each year for at least ten years without countervailing harmful effects. This removal must have long-term effects and contribute materially to the stability of the Earth's climate. Branson also announced that he would be joined in the adjudication of the prize by a panel of five judges, all world authorities in their respective fields: Al Gore, Sir Crispin Tickell, Tim Flannery, James E. Hansen, and James Lovelock.\n\nIn July 2007, Branson purchased his Australian home, Makepeace Island, in Noosa. In August 2007, Branson announced that he bought a 20-percent stake in Malaysia's AirAsia X.\n\nOn 13 October 2007, Branson's Virgin Group sought to add Northern Rock to its empire after submitting an offer that would result in Branson personally owning 30% of the company and changing the company's name from Northern Rock to Virgin Money. The \"Daily Mail\" ran a campaign against his bid; Vince Cable, financial spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats, suggested in the House of Commons that Branson's criminal conviction for tax evasion might be felt by some as a good enough reason not to trust him with public money.\n\nOn 10 January 2008, Branson's Virgin Healthcare announced that it would open a chain of health care clinics that would offer conventional medical care alongside homeopathic and complementary therapies, a development that was welcomed by Ben Bradshaw, the UK's health minister.\n\nPlans where GPs could be paid for referring National Health Service (NHS) patients to private Virgin services were abandoned in June 2008. The BMA warned the plan would \"damage clinical objectivity\", there would be a financial incentive for GPs to push patients toward the Virgin services at the centre. Plans to take over an NHS Practice in Swindon were abandoned in late September 2008.\n\nIn February 2009, Branson's Virgin organisation was reported as bidding to buy the former Honda Formula One team. Branson later stated an interest in Formula One, but claimed that, before the Virgin brand became involved with Honda or any other team, Formula One would have to develop a more economically efficient and environmentally responsible image. At the start of the 2009 Formula One season on 28 March, it was announced that Virgin would be sponsoring the new Brawn GP team, with discussions also under way about introducing a less \"dirty\" fuel in the medium term. After the end of the season and the subsequent purchase of Brawn GP by Mercedes Benz, Branson invested in an 80% buyout of Manor Grand Prix, with the team being renamed Virgin Racing.\n\nIn 2010, Virgin Hotels was launched under the Virgin Group. In February 2018, Branson announced the first Virgin hotel would open in Edinburgh.\n\nBranson and Tony Fernandes, owner of Air Asia and Lotus F1 Racing, had a bet for the 2010 F1 season where the losing team's boss should work on the winner's airline during a charity flight dressed as a stewardess. Fernandes escaped as the winner of the bet, as Lotus Racing ended tenth in the championship, while Virgin Racing ended twelfth and last. Branson kept his word after losing the bet, as he served his duty as a stewardess on an Air Asia flight between Perth and Kuala Lumpur on 12 May 2013.\n\nIn 2010, Branson became patron of the UK's Gordon Bennett 2010 gas balloon race, which has 16 hydrogen balloons flying across Europe.\n\nIn April 2012, Virgin Care commenced a five-year contract for provision of a range of health services which had previously been under the aegis of NHS Surrey, the local primary care trust. By March 2015 Virgin Care was in charge of over 230 services nationwide.\n\nIn July 2012, Branson announced plans to build an orbital space launch system, designated LauncherOne.\nFour commercial customers have already contracted for launches and two companies are developing standardised satellite buses optimised to the design of LauncherOne, in expectation of business opportunities created by the new \"smallsat\" launcher.\n\nIn August 2012, the franchise for the West Coast Main Line, managed by Virgin Rail since 1997, came to an end. The contract was awarded to FirstGroup after a competitive tender process overseen by the Department for Transport. Branson had expressed his concerns about the tender process and questioned the validity of the business plan submitted by FirstGroup. When Virgin Rail lost the contract, Branson said he was convinced the civil servants had \"got their maths wrong\". In October, after an investigation into the bidding process, the deal was scrapped. The Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin announced there were \"significant technical flaws\" in the process and mistakes had been made by transport staff. Virgin Rail continues to operate the West Coast line.\n\nIn September 2014, Branson announced his investment in drone company 3D Robotics stating, \"It's amazing to see what a little flying object with a GoPro attached can do. Before they came along the alternative was an expensive helicopter and crew. I'm really excited about the potential 3D Robotics sees in drones. They can do a lot of good in the world, and I hope this affordable technology will give many more people the chance to see our beautiful planet from such a powerful perspective.\"\n\nIn 2014, Branson launched the \"Foodpreneur\" food and drink-focused start-up competition. Winners were provided with mentorship from Branson, legal support, and brand counseling. The 2014 winners included Proper Beans, Killer Tomato, Sweetpea Pantry and Sweet Virtues. In 2015, the competition expanded to the Virgin StartUp's Foodpreneur Festival. The 2015 winners were given the opportunity to pitch Target Corporation buyers. The 2015 winners included Pip & Nut, Double Dutch Drinks, Harry Bromptons, Cauli Rice and Mallow and Marsh.\n\nIn November 2015, Branson announced the addition of Moskito Island to the Virgin Limited Edition portfolio. This resort, The Branson Estate on Moskito Island, offers 11 bedrooms for 22 guests.\n\nIn 2017, Virgin Group invested in Hyperloop One, developing a strategic partnership between the two. Branson joined the board of directors, and in December 2017, became its chairman. The announced winner of the 2017 Virgin StartUp's Foodpreneur prize was The Snaffling Pig Co., which won a six-week rental space at Intu Lakeside, the retail center with the highest foot traffic in the UK.\n\nIn October 2017, Branson appeared on the Season 9 Premiere of \"Shark Tank\" as a guest investor, where he invested in Locker Board, a sustainable line of skateboards invented by 11-year-old, Carson Kropfl. Branson told the young business man that he reminded him of himself. Branson became the richest Shark to have appeared on the show.\n\nIn April 2018, Branson announced the acquisition of the Las Vegas based Hard Rock Casino-Hotel with plans to re-brand the property under his Virgin Hotels business.\n\nIn May 2018, it was announced that he would become a partner in a private equity fund that will be co-managed by Metric Capital. The fund will seek out consumer goods firms to invest in.\n\nIn September 2018, Branson took part in his fourth Virgin Strive Challenge, where he and a core team travelled more than 2,000 km from Cagliari in Sardinia to the summit of Mont Blanc entirely under human and sail power. It was a gruelling month-long challenge where they hiked, biked and kayaked across Europe and had a near-miss on Mont Blanc when a rockfall rained down on them as they crossed the perilous Gouter Couloir. They raised more than £1m for Holly and Sam Branson’s charity Big Change, which supports young people.\n\nBranson has been involved in a number of failed business ventures, such as Virgin Cola, Virgin Cars, Virgin Publishing, Virgin Clothing and Virgin Brides.\n\nBranson made several world record-breaking attempts after 1985, when in the spirit of the Blue Riband he attempted the fastest Atlantic Ocean crossing. His first attempt in the \"Virgin Atlantic Challenger\" led to the boat capsizing in British waters and a rescue by RAF helicopter, which received wide media coverage. Some newspapers called for Branson to reimburse the government for the rescue cost. In 1986, in his \"Virgin Atlantic Challenger II\", with sailing expert Daniel McCarthy, he beat the record by two hours. A year later his hot air balloon \"Virgin Atlantic Flyer\" crossed the Atlantic.\n\nIn January 1991, Branson crossed the Pacific from Japan to Arctic Canada, , in a balloon of . This broke the record, with a speed of .\n\nBetween 1995 and 1998, Branson, Per Lindstrand, Vladimir Dzhanibekov, Larry Newman, and Steve Fossett made attempts to circumnavigate the globe by balloon. In late 1998, they made a record-breaking flight from Morocco to Hawaii but were unable to complete a global flight before Bertrand Piccard and Brian Jones in \"Breitling Orbiter 3\" in March 1999.\n\nIn March 2004, Branson set a record by travelling from Dover to Calais in a Gibbs Aquada in 1 hour, 40 minutes and 6 seconds, the fastest crossing of the English Channel in an amphibious vehicle. The previous record of six hours was set by two Frenchmen.\nThe cast of \"Top Gear\", Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, attempted to break this record in an amphibious vehicle which they had constructed and, while successfully crossing the channel, did not break Branson's record. After being intercepted by the Coast Guard and asked what their intentions were, Clarkson remarked \"..our intentions are to go across the Channel faster than 'Beardy' Branson!\". The Coast Guard wished them 'Good luck and Bon Voyage'.\n\nIn September 2008, Branson and his children made an unsuccessful attempt at an eastbound record crossing of the Atlantic Ocean under sail in the sloop \"Virgin Money\". The boat, also known as \"Speedboat\", is owned by NYYC member Alex Jackson, who was a co-skipper on this passage, with Branson and Mike Sanderson. After two days, four hours, winds of force 7 to 9 (strong gale), and seas of , a 'monster wave' destroyed the spinnaker, washed a ten-man life raft overboard and severely ripped the mainsail. She eventually continued to St. George's, Bermuda.\n\nBranson has guest starred, usually playing himself, on several television shows, including \"Friends\", \"Baywatch\", \"Birds of a Feather\", \"Only Fools and Horses\", \"The Day Today\", a special episode of the comedy \"Goodness Gracious Me\" and \"Tripping Over\". Branson made several appearances during the 1990s on the BBC Saturday morning show \"Live & Kicking\", where he was referred to as 'the pickle man' by comedy act Trev and Simon (in reference to Branston Pickle).\n\nBranson also appears in a cameo early in XTC's \"Generals and Majors\" video. He was also the star of a reality television show on Fox called \"\" (2004), in which sixteen contestants were tested for their entrepreneurship and sense of adventure and only lasted one season.\n\nHis high public profile often leaves him open as a figure of satire—the 2000 AD series \"Zenith\" features a parody of Branson as a super villain, as the comic's publisher and favoured distributor and the Virgin group were in competition at the time. He is also caricatured in \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Monty Can't Buy Me Love\" as the tycoon Arthur Fortune, as the ballooning megalomaniac Richard Chutney (a pun on Branson, as in Branston Pickle) in \"Believe Nothing\", and voiced himself in \"The Princess Guide\". The character Grandson Richard 39 in Terry Pratchett's Wings is modelled on Branson.\n\nHe has a cameo appearance in several films: \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (2004), where he played a hot-air balloon operator, and \"Superman Returns\" (2006), where he was credited as a 'Shuttle Engineer' and appeared alongside his son, Sam, with a Virgin Galactic-style commercial suborbital shuttle at the centre of his storyline. He also has a cameo in the James Bond film \"Casino Royale\" (2006). Here, he is seen as a passenger going through Miami Airport security check-in and being frisked – several Virgin Atlantic planes appear soon after. British Airways edited out Branson's cameo in their in-flight screening of the movie. He makes a number of brief and disjointed appearances in the documentary \"Derek and Clive Get the Horn\" (1979), which follows the exploits of Peter Cook and Dudley Moore recording their final comedy album. Branson and his mother were also featured in the documentary film \"Lemonade Stories\". On the TV series \"Rove Live\" in early 2006, Rove McManus and Sir Richard pushed each other into a swimming pool fully clothed live on TV during a \"Live at your house\" episode.\n\nBranson is a \"Star Trek\" fan and named his new spaceship VSS \"Enterprise\" in honour of the \"Star Trek\" spaceships, and in 2006, reportedly offered actor William Shatner a ride on the inaugural space launch of Virgin Galactic. In an interview in \"Time\" magazine, published on 10 August 2009, Shatner claimed that Branson approached him asking how much he would pay for a ride on the spaceship. In response, Shatner asked \"how much would you pay \"me\" to do it?\"\n\nIn August 2007, Branson announced on \"The Colbert Report\" that he had named a new aircraft Air Colbert. He later doused political satirist and talk show host Stephen Colbert with water from his mug. Branson subsequently took a retaliatory splash from Colbert. The interview quickly ended, with both laughing as shown on the episode aired on Comedy Central on 22 August 2007. The interview was promoted on \"The Report\" as the \"Colbert-Branson Interview Trainwreck\". Branson then made a cameo appearance in \"The Soup\", playing an intern working under Joel McHale who had been warned against getting into water fights with Stephen Colbert, and being subsequently fired.\n\nIn March 2008, he launched Virgin Mobile in India; during that period, he made a cameo appearance in Bollywood film \"London Dreams\". In July 2010, Branson narrated Australian sailor Jessica Watson's documentary about her solo sailing trip around the world.\n\nIn April 2011, Branson appeared on CNN's Mainsail with Kate Winslet. Together they re-enacted a famous scene from the 1997 film \"Titanic\" for the cameras. On 17 August 2011, he was featured in the premier episode of Hulu's first long-form original production entitled, \"A Day in the Life\".\n\nAt the 2012 Pride of Britain Awards on ITV on 30 October, Branson, along with Michael Caine, Elton John, Simon Cowell and Stephen Fry, recited Rudyard Kipling's poem \"If—\" in tribute to the 2012 British Olympic and Paralympics athletes.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Branson and musician Peter Gabriel discussed with Nelson Mandela their idea of a small group of leaders working to solve difficult global conflicts. On 18 July 2007, in Johannesburg, South Africa, Mandela announced the formation of a new group, The Elders. Kofi Annan served as Chair of The Elders and Gro Harlem Brundtland as Deputy Chair. The Elders is funded by a group of donors, including Branson and Gabriel.\nIn 1999, Branson became a founding sponsor of the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children (\"ICMEC\"), the goal of which is to help find missing children, and to stop the exploitation of children, as his mother Eve became a founding member of ICMEC's Board of Directors.\n\nThrough the Carbon War Room, founded in 2009, the entrepreneur sought solutions for global warming and the energy crisis. \"We all have a part to play, but I believe entrepreneurs will have a really significant role to play in bringing investment and commercial skills to help develop the new technologies needed to grow a post-carbon economy\", he said in his interview with \"Vision\". Through Carbon War Room initiative he has focused efforts on finding sustainable alternatives for three industry sectors: shipping, energy efficiency and aviation and renewable jet fuels.\n\nHe also launched Virgin Startup, an official delivery partner for the UK's Start Up Loans programme. Through this new organisation, he was to provide loans to entrepreneurs between the ages of 18 and 30 UK-wide. A pilot of the scheme, which ran over 11 months, injected £600,000 into 100 businesses.\n\nBranson's other work in South Africa includes the Branson School of Entrepreneurship, set up in 2005 as a partnership between Virgin Unite, the non-profit foundation of Virgin, and entrepreneur Taddy Blecher, the founder of CIDA City Campus, a university in Johannesburg. The school aims to improve economic growth in South Africa by supporting start-ups and micro-enterprises with skills, mentors, services, networks and finance arrangements. Fundraising activity to support the school is achieved by \"The Sunday Times\" Fast Track 100, sponsored by Virgin Group, at its yearly event, where places to join Richard Branson on trips to South Africa to provide coaching and mentoring to students are auctioned to attendees. In 2009, Jason Luckhurst and Boyd Kershaw of Practicus, Martin Ainscough of the Ainscough Group and Matthew Riley of Daisy Communications helped raise £150,000 through the auction.\n\nIn March 2008, Branson hosted an environmental gathering at his private island, Necker Island, in the Caribbean with several prominent entrepreneurs, celebrities, and world leaders. They discussed global warming-related problems facing the world, hoping that the meeting would be a precursor to future discussions regarding similar problems. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, and Larry Page of Google were in attendance.\n\nOn 8 May 2009, Branson took over Mia Farrow's hunger strike for three days in protest of the Sudanese government expulsion of aid groups from the Darfur region. In 2010, he and the Nduna Foundation (founded by Amy Robbins), and Humanity United (an organization backed by Pam Omidyar, the wife of eBay founder Pierre Omidyar) founded Enterprise Zimbabwe.\nBranson is a signatory of Global Zero campaign, a non-profit international initiative for the elimination of all nuclear weapons worldwide. Since its launch in Paris in December 2008, Global Zero has grown to 300 leaders, including current and former heads of state, national security officials and military commanders, and 400,000 citizens worldwide; developed a practical step-by-step plan to eliminate nuclear weapons; launched an international student campaign with 75 campus chapters in eight countries; and produced a documentary film, \"Countdown to Zero\", in partnership with Lawrence Bender and Participant Media.\n\nSince 2010, Branson has served as a Commissioner on the Broadband Commission for Digital Development, a UN initiative which promotes universal access to broadband services. In 2011, Branson served on the Global Commission on Drug Policy with former political and cultural leaders of Latin America and elsewhere, \"in a bid to boost the effort to achieve more humane and rational drug laws.\"\n\nIn December 2013, Branson urged companies to boycott Uganda because of its \"anti-homosexuality bill\". Branson stated that it would be \"against my conscience to support this country...governments must realize that people should be able to love whoever they want.\"\n\nIn 2014, Branson joined forces with African Wildlife Foundation and partner WildAid for the \"Say No\" Campaign, an initiative to bring public awareness to the issues of wildlife poaching and trafficking.\n\nBranson is an opponent of the death penalty, stating: \"the death penalty is always cruel, barbaric and inhumane. It has no place in the world.\" The U.S. is one of the few countries that practiced the death penalty in 2015, and on 30 September 2015 Branson released a letter in support of American inmate Richard Glossip on the day he was due to be executed, buying an ad in \"The Oklahoman\" newspaper which had advocated the execution. Branson stated the evidence against Glossip was flawed and that \"every person is deserving of a fair trial\", adding: \"Your state is about to execute a man whose guilt has not been proven beyond a reasonable doubt.\"\n\nIn October 2018, Branson spoke out for Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist allegedly killed by Saudi authorities in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey by suspending his advisory role from Saudi Arabia's biggest Red Sea tourism project. He issued a statement saying, \"The disappearance of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, if proved true, would clearly change the ability of any of us in the West to do business with the Saudi Government.\"\n\nIn 2006, Branson made a high-profile pledge to invest $3 billion toward addressing global warming over the course of the following decade. However, author and activist Naomi Klein has criticised Branson for contributing \"well under $300 million\" as of 2014, far below the originally stated goal. Additionally, Klein says Virgin airlines' greenhouse gas emissions increased considerably in the years following his pledge.\n\nIn the 1980s, Branson was briefly given the post of \"litter Tsar\" by Margaret Thatcher—charged with \"keeping Britain tidy\". In 2005 he declared that there were only negligible differences between the two main parties on economic matters. He was suggested as a candidate for Mayor of London before the first 2000 election, with polls indicating he would be a viable candidate, but he did not express interest.\n\nBranson has supported continuing British membership of the European Union and was opposed to the 2016 referendum. On 28 June 2016, interviewed for ITV's \"Good Morning Britain\", he said that his company had lost a third of its value as a result of the referendum result and that a planned venture, employing over 3,000 people, which he had announced before the referendum, had been shelved. He gave his backing for a second referendum.\n\nIn 1993, Branson was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Technology from Loughborough University.\n\nIn the New Years Honours list dated 30 December 1999, Elizabeth II signified her intention to confer the honour of Knight Bachelor on him for his \"services to entrepreneurship\". He was knighted by Charles, Prince of Wales on 30 March 2000 at an investiture in Buckingham Palace. Also in 2000, Branson received the Tony Jannus Award for his accomplishments in commercial air transportation.\n\nIn 2000, Branson was inducted into the International Air & Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air & Space Museum.\n\nBranson appears at No. 85 on the 2002 list of 100 Greatest Britons on the BBC and voted for by the public. Branson was also ranked in 2007's \"Time\" magazine \"Top 100 Most Influential People in the World\". On 7 December 2007, United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon presented Branson with the United Nations Correspondents Association Citizen of the World Award for his support for environmental and humanitarian causes.\n\nOn 24 January 2011, Branson was awarded the German Media Prize (organised by \"Media Control Charts\"), previously handed to former US president Bill Clinton and the Dalai Lama. On 14 November 2011, Branson was awarded the ISTA Prize by the International Space Transport Association in The Hague for his pioneering achievements in the development of suborbital transport systems with \"Virgin Galactic\".\nOn 11 February 2012, Branson was honoured with the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences' President's Merit Award for his contributions to the music industry.\n\nOn 2 June 2013, Branson received an honorary degree of Doctor Honoris Causa from Kaunas Technology University in Kaunas, Lithuania. On 15 May 2014, Branson received the 2014 Business for Peace Award, awarded annually by the Business for Peace Foundation in Oslo, Norway.\n\nOn 21 September 2014, Branson was recognized by \"The Sunday Times\" as the most admired business person over the last five decades. On 9 October 2014, Branson was named as the No. 1 LGBT ally by the OUTstanding organisation. On 29 October 2015, Branson was listed by UK-based company Richtopia at number 1 in the list of 100 Most Influential British Entrepreneurs. In October 2015, Branson received the International Crisis Group Chairman's Award at the United Nations Development Programme's In Pursuit of Peace Awards Dinner.\n\nIn 1971, Branson was convicted and briefly jailed for tax evasion, having fraudulently obtained export documents for records to be sold on the domestic market in order to avoid paying Purchase Tax. Customs officials caught onto the scheme and executed a sting operation, marking records bought for the international market with invisible ink and subsequently buying them on the domestic market. Branson was advised of the sting by an anonymous tip-off and attempted to dispose of the evidence, but this was unsuccessful.\n\nBranson's business empire is owned by a complicated series of offshore trusts and companies. \"The Sunday Times\" stated that his wealth is calculated at £3 billion; if he were to retire to his Caribbean island and liquidate all of this, he would pay relatively little in tax. Branson has been criticised for his business strategy, and has been accused of being a carpetbagger. Branson responded that he is living on Necker for health rather than tax reasons.\n\nIn 2013, Branson described himself as a \"tax exile\", having saved millions in tax by surrendering his British citizenship. This was echoed by Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, Labour's John McDonnell, in 2016, amid calls for his knighthood to be revoked.\n\nBranson has been criticised by the Whale and Dolphin Conservation organisation for profiting from selling trips to SeaWorld and similar themed parks that hold dolphins, whales and other sea life in captivity for entertainment purposes.\n\nIn November 2017, singer Antonia Jenae, a backing singer for Joss Stone, claimed Branson sexually assaulted her at Necker Island. A spokesperson for Branson confirmed to \"The Sun\" newspaper that members of the band had been invited for a party on the island in 2010, but that he and friends and family in attendance had \"no recollection\" of the events. Branson later apologised.\n\nBranson married Kristen Tomassi in 1972 and divorced her in 1979. He has a daughter Holly (b. 1981) and a son Sam (b. 1985) with his second wife, Joan Templeman, whom he met in 1976. He stated in an interview with Piers Morgan that he and Joan also had a daughter named Clare Sarah, who died when she was four days old in 1979. They were married in 1989 on Necker Island.\n\nIn 1998, Branson released his autobiography, titled \"Losing My Virginity\", an international best-seller. Branson was deeply saddened by the disappearance of fellow adventurer Steve Fossett in September 2007; the following month he wrote an article for \"Time\" magazine, titled \"My Friend, Steve Fossett\".\n\nIn 2013, Branson became President of the Old Stoic Society of Stowe School. In March 2015, Branson said that almost all drug use should be decriminalised in the UK, following the example of Portugal.\n\nBranson was ordained as a minister by the Universal Life Church Monastery. Branson is also an experienced kitesurfer, holding some world records in the sport. In August 2016, Branson was injured while riding his bicycle in the British Virgin Islands and suffered torn ligaments and a cracked cheek as a result. He was taken to hospital in Miami for X-rays and scans.\n\nIn 2017, Branson's Necker Island home was left uninhabitable after Hurricane Irma hit. It is the second time the Necker Island home has been severely damaged after the building caught fire when it was struck by lightning caused by Hurricane Irene in 2011.\n\nBranson has stated in a number of interviews that he has been much influenced by non-fiction books. He most commonly mentions Nelson Mandela's autobiography, \"Long Walk to Freedom\", explaining that Mandela was \"one of the most inspiring men I have ever met and had the honour to call my friend.\" Owing to his interest in humanitarian and ecological issues, Branson also lists Al Gore's best-selling book, \"An Inconvenient Truth\", and \"The Revenge of Gaia\" by James Lovelock amongst his favourites. According to Branson's book, \"Screw It, Let's Do It: Lessons in Life\", he is also a fan of Jung Chang's \"Wild Swans\" and Antony Beevor's \"Stalingrad\". In fiction, Branson has long admired the character Peter Pan, and in 2006 he founded Virgin Comics LLC, stating that Virgin Comics will give \"a whole generation of young, creative thinkers a voice\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54475291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54475291", "title": "Robert Trigg", "text": "Robert Trigg\n\nRobert Trigg was a former chef convicted of the manslaughter of one former girlfriend and the murder of another.\n\nRobert Trigg had a history of violence towards women.\n\nA previous relationship between Trigg and Rebecca Allcorn was ended by her in 2002 after nearly a decade because of his drinking and violent outbursts. They had a daughter.\n\nHe went into a relationship with Susan Holland, which deteriorated due to his drink-fueled rages. In 2003 he accused her of sleeping with a neighbour and beat her, kicking her in the head and face. Apparently afraid of his own behaviour he called police, warning them \"I'm going to kill her. You need to arrest me.\". She spent three weeks in hospital and Trigg was later convicted of assault.\n\nIn October 2014 he met Deirdre Loveridge and began a relationship with her. His jealousy led to the relationship breaking down. He send more than a hundred abusive messages and phone calls. In November 2016, he was convicted of harassment and handed a restraining order. She was so terrified of him, she left the area.\n\nIn August 2016 he entered a relationship with Caroline Yardwood, but this relationship also ended because of his jealousy. He sent her many abusive text and voicemail messages.\n\nOn December 21, 2016, he turned up drunk at the homeless charity shop where she worked. He shouted insults and abuse before grabbing her by the arm and pushing her in the chest. He followed her into a back room of the shop and pushed her, causing her to fall into a door. He was arrested and later pleaded guilty to assault, harassment, and racially aggravated harassment and was jailed for twelve weeks.\n\nTrigg and Caroline Devlin met in 2003. She was Scottish.\nNeighbours described their relationship as volatile and said that Trigg had angry outbursts while drunk. After one outburst, Caroline said \"I won't be here for my 40th.\".\n\nBridget Benger, a close friend of Caroline, described how Caroline had become withdrawn and \"lost her spark\". Benger and Devlin had made a pact three weeks before the latters' death to look after each other's children if anything happened.\n\nHer body was discovered by her ten-year-old daughter after Trigg had said there was something wrong with her mother. He did not call for an ambulance, leaving it to her children to do so.\n\nCaroline Devlins' death was originally ruled as being due to an aneuyrism.\n\nA dispute arose about Caroline Devlins' autopsy between Sussex Police and the coroner. The police refused to pay for a Home Office pathologist because they only wanted a \"routine\" examination performed. As the circumstances around her death were unexplained, the Worthing pathologist wanted a Home Office pathologist to do a more thorough examination. There existed a state of distrust between the county pathologist and the police force to do with previous requests to do with deaths in unexplained circumstances.\n\nCaroline Devlins' post mortem was carried out four days after her death due to the dispute, as compared to two days in the case of Susan Nicholson.\n\nTrigg met Susan Nicholson after both attended alcohol rehabilitation in July 2010. They started dating in November that year before he moved into her flat that December.\n\nNeighbour Hannah Cooper saw Susan suffering from injuries on four occasions and contacted police to report fights.\n\nIn March 2011 Robert Trigg was cautioned for punching Susan in the face after an argument.\n\nIn April 2011 Trigg called Cooper to say \"It's Sue, I think she's dead.\". He then left the flat, going to a nearby shop to buy cigarettes. He phoned his older brother Michael before phoning Hannah Coopher, a neighbour. She called 999.\n\nIn the months before Susan Nicholsons' death in 2011 police were called to her flat six times after 999 calls. Two days before her death he was cautioned for punching her in the face.\nAn inquest into Susan Nicholsons' death ruled that she had died after Trigg had rolled inadvertently onto her while they both slept on a sofa. During the inquest, Trigg estimated they had slept on the sofa 40 times (and had used it when they first moved in, in lieu of a bed). Trigg subsequently sold his story, for an unknown amount to a magazine, in which he reiterated his claim that her death was accidental.\n\nSusan Nicholsons' parents Peter and Elizabeth Skelton were suspicious of Robert Trigg, partly because of his violent past but also because the sofa in question was too small for a couple to sleep on. They criticised the original investigation by Sussex Police and criticised the force for ignoring their pleas to reinvestigate their daughters' death.\n\nThe trial was held in Lewes Crown Court and lasted ten days. Trigg denied any wrongdoing.\n\nDuring the trial, it was argued that both women were found in unusual poses and that Robert Trigg had not called for an ambulance, instead leaving that up to someone else.\n\nDr. Nathaniel Cary testified that Caroline Devlin had died as a result of a blow to the back of the head. He found that Ms. Nicholson had been suffocated.\n\nOn 5 July 2017 he was convicted of the manslaughter of Caroline Devlin and the murder of Susan Nicholson.\n\nAs he was led into court in handcuffs for sentencing, Trigg said \"Isaiah 50, verse 11. They should be in here, not me.\".\n\nHe was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 25 years.\n"}
{"id": "30359734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30359734", "title": "Rose Pak", "text": "Rose Pak\n\nRose Lan Pak () was a political activist in San Francisco, California, noted for her advocacy for the Chinatown community and her influence on city politics. Pak served as a consultant for the San Francisco Chinese Chamber of Commerce and organizer of the Chinese New Year Parade in San Francisco. Although Pak never held an elective political office, she was known as an outspoken and well-connected \"gatekeeper\" figure who supported politicians by raising funds and connecting them with the city's growing Asian American community.\n\nPak was born in Hunan, China, on November 27, 1947. She received a Catholic education while growing up as a refugee in Macau and Hong Kong after her father, a businessman, had died in the Chinese Civil War. When she was 17, she received a scholarship to attend the San Francisco College for Women, and in 1972 earned a master's degree at the Columbia School of Journalism. After a brief stint working at \"The New York Times\", she returned to San Francisco to work for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" (as its first female Asian American journalist), a job that she left after eight years to become a full-time social activist.\n\nPak's first objective as an activist was to organize a campaign to save the San Francisco Chinese Hospital from closure. Later she worked for decades to advocate for its replacement by a new, modern building, and for the Central Subway project that is set to improve Chinatown's connection to the rest of the Bay Area. Both projects broke ground in 2013.\n\nPak was a supporter of Art Agnos (the city's mayor from 1988 to 1992), but opposed his efforts to tear down the Embarcadero Freeway, arguing that Chinatown would suffer catastrophic consequences if it lost the fast crosstown connection. She won a ballot measure about the issue in 1987, but after the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake damaged the freeway, her objections were overturned. According to the San Francisco Chronicle, Pak then \"almost single-handedly persuaded the city to build\" the $1.5 billion Central Subway project to compensate Chinatown for the demolition of the freeway.\n\nIn 2011, Pak was instrumental in obtaining consensus to nominate Edwin M. Lee as the first Asian American mayor of San Francisco. Pak said, \"This was finally our moment to make the first Chinese mayor of a major city.\"\n\nIn 2015, Pak and her ally Ed Lee had a fallout over Lee's choice of Julie Christensen as a replacement appointment to the Board of Supervisor instead of Pak's protege Cindy Wu. Pak went on to support her former longtime adversary Aaron Peskin against Christensen in the supervisor elections for District 3 (which includes Chinatown) later that year. Peskin defeated Christensen.\n\nShortly before her death in 2016, Pak vehemently opposed a project to permanently convert parts of Stockton Street in the Union Square area outside of Chinatown into a pedestrian zone, arguing that Stockton Street was a \"vital link\" for Chinatown, and threatening to organize a blockade of City Hall by thousands of vehicles if the idea came to pass.\nOn the reopening of the Chinese Hospital at the end of April 2016, the city renamed an alley in Chinatown just east of the new tower in her honor to \"Rose Pak's Way 白蘭之道\". In May 2016, Pak returned to San Francisco after an extended medical stay in China where she had received a kidney transplant, announcing to a welcoming committee of Chinatown elders, local politicians and city officials that her health had been restored. She died in San Francisco on September 18, 2016, aged 68. She was single all of her life, and had no children.\n\nPak was an overseas executive director of the China Overseas Exchange Association (COEA), an organization overseen by the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office (OCAO) of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. At various times she spoke out in favor of the Chinese government's views, e.g. in 2012 calling all \"overseas Chinese\" to \"defend the homeland” in the conflict about the Diaoyu Islands, and in 2008 opposing a resolution of the SF Board of Supervisors that criticized China for the Tiananmen Square massacre and other repression measures, passed on occasion of the Beijing Summer Olympics torch relay reaching San Francisco.\n\nPak was critical of the Falun Gong movement in San Francisco and in 2004 she banned the group from participating in the city's annual Chinese New Year's Parade. The group and others, including San Francisco Supervisor Chris Daly, subsequently alleged that Pak had connections to the Chinese Communist Party. Pak consistently denied any ties with Beijing. In an August 2011 interview with the New Tang Dynasty Television and \"Epoch Times\", former San Francisco Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin made similar allegations, claiming that Pak was \"the real leader of San Francisco\", and that she represented outside governmental interests that \"include the People's Republic of China.\"\n"}
{"id": "33191678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33191678", "title": "Ráfael Vásquez (general)", "text": "Ráfael Vásquez (general)\n\nRafael Vásquez (1804–1854) was a 19th-century general in the Mexican Army during the Mexican rebellion against the centralist style rule of government.\n\nVásquez was born in Mexico City in 1804. His first military endeavor was on February 20, 1827, as Captain of Patriots of the Hacienda de Ciénega de Mata, Jalisco, Mexico. He was appointed brevet brigadier general in 1839.\n\nVásquez was a major figure in the suppression of the Mexican insurgents, who opposed the centralization of the Mexican government under General Antonio López de Santa Anna. The states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas had advocated rebellion and sought secession from Mexico and declared a new Republic of the Rio Grande. Vásquez led a force to subdue Antonio Canales Rosillo and his Texan - Mexican troops into an ambush near Saltillo, Mexico. Assisting Canales was Colonel Samuel W. Jordan. Jordan led a group of federalist troops that had secretly been infiltrated by centralist supporters. However, he still managed to rout the centralists forces who quickly fled to Saltillo.\n\nOn March 5, 1842, General Vásquez invaded Texas with about 700 men and occupied San Antonio, Texas. The Texan forces were surprised and overwhelmed. After a few skirmishes, they were unable to defend the town and evacuated to Seguin, Texas. Vásquez deemed it a surrender and took control of San Antonio. He raised the Mexican flag and thus declared Mexican laws in effect. On March 7, Vásquez fled San Antonio, while pursued by Texan forces. He crossed the Rio Grande and returned to Mexico. The Vásquez expedition was one of the events that led to retaliations by the Texans through the Mier Expedition and Somervell Expedition.\n\nLater in 1851 and 1852, Vásquez was commandant general of the state of Jalisco, Mexico . He died on March 9, 1854, in Mexico City.\n"}
{"id": "38036980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38036980", "title": "Saket Modi", "text": "Saket Modi\n\nSaket Modi (\"ca.\" 1990/91) is the Co-founder and CEO of Lucideus, an enterprise cyber security platforms company. A computer science engineer by education, he founded Lucideus in 2012 while in his final year of engineering. Incubated from IIT Bombay and backed by Cisco's former Chairman and CEO John Chambers, Lucideus today protects multiple Fortune 500 companies around the world with it's cyber risk measurement and mitigation platform called SAFE. The product was recognized among the Top Innovations of the Year by Forbes Magazine in 2018. Saket is a part of Fortune Magazine's 40under40, Entrepreneur Magazine's 35under35, Forbes Magazine's 30under30 lists among others. The Government of India awarded him with the title of Champion of Change in 2017. \n\nSaket was born and raised in Kolkata (Calcutta). In the year 2009, he joined the LNM Institute of Information Technology, for engineering as a computer science major. He completed early schooling from Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Before starting Lucideus in 2012, Saket initiated his career by giving seminars and workshops on ethical hacking and cyber forensics. His workshops gradually became popular, as a result of which he was invited to over a hundred colleges across the globe. Some of the major Institutions who have hosted his workshops include UIUC, IIT Kanpur, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, BITS Pilani, IIT Guwahati among others. He led the team that developed the smartphone privacy app UnHack in 2015. He is an occasional technology writer in the media. \n\n\nSaket has been referred to as the \"Indian Firewall\" in various media publications.\n\nUnder Saket's leadership, Lucideus has also won several awards - the most prominent being the \"Best IT Startup of India\" at the National Entrepreneurship Awards 2016 organised by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Government of India and felicitated by Minister of Home Affairs (India), Sri Rajnath Singh.\n\nHe is a regular speaker on various subjects of information security and entrepreneurship at International Forums like Mobile World Congress, CeBIT, Forbes Under 30 Global Summit (Boston), Confederation of Indian Industry, Cyber Tech (Israel), ASSOCHAM, Data Security Council of India, ISACA, TiE, TEDx, CNBC TV18's Young Turks Conclave among others. \n\nHe has given industry keynotes at Cisco's Network Architecture Geek (NAG) Summit, Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Reimagine, VMWare's vFORUM among others.\n"}
{"id": "54356633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54356633", "title": "Shyamal-Saumil", "text": "Shyamal-Saumil\n\nShyamal-Saumil is an Indian classical music duo formed in 1980, in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India, composed of the Gujarati singers, Dr. Shyamal Munshi and Saumil Munshi. Shyamal-Saumil achieved both critical acclaim and commercial success in the 1980s and early 1990s, helping to popularize Gujarati classical music, known as \"Sugam Sangeet\" while experimenting, innovating, and branching out into other forms of media, like cinema and theatre. Shyamal-Saumil are known for their inclusive music, having created a plethora of albums for children, adolescents, and adults, and also having delved into and having explored different cultures and religious folk music in their works.\n\nSaumil Munshi was born on the 5th of September, 1960, while Shyamal Munshi was born on 14 April 1962, in Ahmedabad, India, to their father Paresh Munshi and mother Bhaktida Munshi. The passion for music and literature was instilled at a young age by their school activities. The two used to go to performances and competitions, where they used to recite ghazals and poems. In 1973, they joined the Jagh Mag Mandal, where they used to perform a variety of music, from film songs to classical poetry.\n\nIn 1980, the two gave their debut organized solo performance, titled, \"Morpichch\", a sold-out show. The show launched their careers and gave them credibility and fame. The shows were repeated in Kolkata and Mumbai as well, and over the course of the first 5 years, they gave 20 shows in 3 cities.\n\nIn 1995, Shyamal-Saumil released Meghdhanoosh, initially in cassette form, dedicated entirely to kids. The album comprised 45 songs on different morals and themes, and was largely sung by kids themselves. To this date, Meghdhanoosh remains the duo's best-selling album, selling over 25,000 copies.\n\nHaving earned fame and success, Shyamal-Saumil, in late 2000, launched \"Swarsetu\", a listeners forum, to promote \"Sugam Sangeet\" and \"Kavya Sangeet\", as well as to introduce new and upcoming artists while staying true to the culture. Since 2000, Shyamal-Saumil have organized over 90 performances, each with a different theme and message. Swarsetu also allows children and adolescents to showcase their talents and imbibe roots and foundations into them.\n\nin 2002, Shyamal-Saumil released the biggest collaborative project of their career, a 6-album project called, \"Hastakshar\", with each album containing songs by a different illustrious poet and lyricist. These poets were Tushar Shukla, Raman Patel, Ramesh Parekh, Suresh Dalal, and Umashankar Joshi, and for their songs, Shyamal-Saumil brought together 30 artists to create the project. The title song was sung by Jagjit Singh, and other famous Bollywood singers also gave their voices for the songs. These included Kavita Krishnamurthy, Shankar Mahadevan, Udit Narayan, Sadhana Sargam,Bhupendar Singh, and Shubha Joshi. Shreya Goshal sang her first Gujarati song on the album's track, \"Aaj Maaru Mann\". The album was extolled for its versatility and its richness in quality.\n\nIn 2012, the Swarsetu News Digest was launched by Shyamal-Saumil, a monthly magazine, which showcased art, literature, music, poetry, and drama in Gujarat. The magazine also invited famous authors and poets to write columns, and was catered for all ages. Since then, the magazine has also launched several competitions and literature fests, and workshops are organized in several schools to help propagate Gujarati culture.\n\nAapnu Amdavad Surilu Amdavad was a project released in 2011 to celebrate the heritage of the city of Ahmedabad. All the songs in the album were accompanied with videos, making the album one of the first music video albums in Gujarati music. The videos had notable appearances by the then-Mayor of Ahmedabad, Asit Vora, and Indian cricketer, Parthiv Patel, and also featured songs dedicated to the festival of kites, Uttarayan, and to Manekchowk, a prominent city square in Ahmedabad.\n\nIn 2014, Shyamal-Saumil organized a 3-day music festival called Anushthaan, an event which the Times of India called a \"spectacle for music-lovers.\" The event featured artists from all around Gujarat, including Parthiv Gohil, Aishwariya Majmudar, Hema Desai, Dipali Somaiyya, and nearly 50 other musicians and artists. In 2015 and 2016, the event was repeated with further critical acclaim and success, and featured a plethora of artists, a lineup which included Maati Baani, Bhoomi Trivedi, Osman Mir, Aalap Desai, Aashit Desai, the Tabla Taalim Sanstha, Rhythm Pulze, and nearly 80 other artists. The events also included dance performances by Chandan and Nirali Thakore, Maulik and Ishira Shah. Being an ensemble of the arts, Anushthaan also included several poets, stand-up comedians, and actors, who gave talks, speeches, and performances. Renowned artists like Sairam Dave, Jay Vasavda, RJ Dhvanit, Tushar Shukla, Darshan Jariwala, Harsh Brahmbhatt, Archan Trivedi, and Abhishek Jain were among the celebrities present. In 2015, the event featured Gujarat's first LED floor, and in 2016, the very first Gujarati a cappella performance was presented. New techniques like projection mapping and optical illusion dances were also performed.\n\nWith Red FM, Shyamal Saumil produced 4 albums, focusing mainly on garba, while also fusing Gujarati pop with traditional folk. These albums are:\n\nShyamal-Saumil have lent their music for several films, of which, Bhale Padharya won them the Cine-Aishwariya Best Music Director Award.\nApart from cinema, the duo have also produced music and have sung for several TV Shows, which include:\n\nThroughout the span of their 37-year career, Shyamal-Saumil have produced a total of 21 albums. These albums follow distinct themes, and are thus split into 4 categories.\n\nChanchal\n\nThe albums under this category are typically for adolescents and young adults. These include: \nSheetal\n\nThe \"Sheetal\" category of albums comprises ghazals and more poetic pieces, and these cover a wide range of themes. Albums under this section include: \nNirmal\n\nConsisting of devotional songs and songs of worship, the Nirmal category has the following albums:\nKomal\n\nAn entire section dedicated to children, the songs under this section usually carry a message or a moral, and are often sung by children themselves. The albums include: \n\n"}
{"id": "9297256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9297256", "title": "Stephen Suomi", "text": "Stephen Suomi\n\nStephen J. Suomi is chief of the Laboratory of Comparative Ethology at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) in Bethesda, Maryland. He is also a research professor at the University of Virginia, the University of Maryland, and Johns Hopkins University. He is involved with the Experience-based Brain & Biological Development Program, launched in 2003 by the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research.\n\nSuomi was elected as a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for his contributions to the understanding of how socialization affects the psychological development of non-human primates. He worked in the early 1970s as a research assistant to psychologist Harry Harlow, showing that it was possible to rehabilitate rhesus monkeys that had been reared in social isolation for the first six months of life by temporarily housing them with socially normal monkeys. At the University of Wisconsin-Madison Suomi worked with Harry Harlow to develop the pit of despair, a series of controversial and widely condemned experiments on baby monkeys that have been credited by some researchers as starting the animal liberation movement in the United States.<ref name=\"Blum2002/225\">Blum, Deborah. \"Love at Goon Park: Harry Harlow and the Science of Affection\". Perseus Publishing, 2002, p. 225.</ref> Suomi has made no mention of the morality of his work.\n\nSuomi received a B.A. in psychology from Stanford University in 1968, and a Ph.D. in the same subject from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1971. He became a full professor with the university's psychology department in 1984, and began to work for the NICHD in 1983.\n\nSuomi describes his current research interests as focusing on the role of genetic and environmental factors in shaping individual psychological development in non-human primates; the effect of change on psychological development; and whether findings on monkeys in captivity can translate to monkeys living in the wild, and between human beings of different cultures.\n\nA former Harry Harlow student, Suomi has been criticized by members of the U.S. Congress for maternal deprivation experiments on monkeys.\n\n\n"}
