{"id": "27318080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27318080", "title": "2011 United Kingdom Alternative Vote referendum", "text": "2011 United Kingdom Alternative Vote referendum\n\nThe United Kingdom Alternative Vote referendum, also known as the UK-wide referendum on the Parliamentary voting system was held on Thursday 5 May 2011 (the same date as local elections in many areas) in the United Kingdom (UK) to choose the method of electing MPs at subsequent general elections as part of the Conservative – Liberal Democrat Coalition Agreement drawn up after the 2010 general election which had resulted in the first hung parliament since February 1974 and also indirectly in the aftermath of the 2009 expenses scandal under the provisions of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 and was the first national referendum to be held under provisions laid out in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.\n\nThe referendum concerned whether or not to replace the present \"first-past-the-post\" system with the \"alternative vote\" (AV) method and was the first national referendum to be held across the whole of the United Kingdom in the twenty first century. The proposal to introduce AV was overwhelmingly rejected by 67.9% of voters on a national turnout of 42%.\n\nThis was only the second UK-wide referendum to be held (after the EC referendum back in 1975) and is to date the only UK-wide referendum to be held on an issue not related to the European Economic Community (Common Market) or European Union and was also the first UK-wide referendum to be overseen by the Electoral Commission. It was also the first that was not merely consultative: it committed the government to give effect to its decision.\n\nAll registered electors over 18 (British, Irish and Commonwealth citizens living in the UK and enrolled British citizens living outside) – including Members of the House of Lords (who cannot vote in UK general elections) – were entitled to take part.\n\nOn a turnout of 42.2 per cent, 68 per cent voted \"No\" and 32 per cent voted \"Yes\". Ten of the 440 local voting areas recorded 'Yes' votes above 50 per cent: those in Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh Central and Glasgow Kelvin, with the remaining six in London.\n\nThe campaign was described in retrospect by political scientist Iain McLean as a \"bad-tempered and ill-informed public debate\".\n\nThe Alternative Vote and the single transferable vote (STV) for the House of Commons were debated in Parliament several times between 1917 and 1931 and came close to being adopted. Both the Liberals and Labour at various times supported a change from non-transferable voting to AV or STV in one-, two- and three-member constituencies. STV was adopted for the university seats (which were abolished in 1949). Both AV and STV involve voters rank ordering preferences. However, STV is considered to be a form of proportional representation, using multi-member constituencies, while AV, in single-member constituencies, is not.\n\nIn 1950 all constituencies became single-member and all votes non-transferable. From then until 2010, the Labour and Conservative parties, the two parties who formed each government of the United Kingdom normally by virtue of an overall majority in the Commons, always voted down proposals for moving away from this uniform \"First-past-the-post\" (FPTP) voting system for the Commons. Other voting systems were introduced for various other British elections. STV was reintroduced in Northern Ireland and list-PR introduced for European elections except in Northern Ireland.\n\nWhile out of power, the Labour Party set up a working group to examine electoral reform. The resulting Plant Commission reported in 1993 and recommended the adoption, for Commons elections, of the supplementary vote, the system used to elect the London Mayor. Labour's 1997 manifesto committed the party to a referendum on the voting system for the Commons and to setting up an independent commission to recommend a proportional alternative to FPTP to be put in that referendum.\n\nAfter winning the 1997 General Election, the new Labour government consequently set up the Jenkins Commission into electoral reform, supported by the Liberal Democrats, the third party in British politics in recent years and long supporters of proportional representation. (The Commission chair, Roy Jenkins, was a Liberal Democrat peer and former Labour minister.) The commission reported in September 1998 and proposed the novel alternative vote top-up or AV+ system. Having been tasked to meet a \"requirement for broad proportionality\", the Commission rejected both FPTP, as the status quo, and AV as options. It pointed out (chapter 3, para 21) that \"the single-member constituency is not an inherent part of the British parliamentary tradition. It was unusual until 1885...Until [then] most seats were two-member...\" (the English system established in 1276). Jenkins rejected AV because \"so far from doing much to relieve disproportionality, it is capable of substantially adding to it\". AV was also described as \"disturbingly unpredictable\" and \"unacceptably unfair\".\n\nHowever, legislation for a referendum was not put forward. Proportional systems were introduced for the new Scottish Parliament and Welsh and London Assemblies, and the supplementary vote was introduced for mayoral elections. With House of Lords reform in 1999, AV was introduced to elect replacements for the remaining 92 hereditary peers who sit in the Lords.\n\nAt the next General Election in 2001, the Labour manifesto stated that they would review the experience of the new systems (in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) and the Jenkins report, to assess the possibility of changes to the Commons, which would still be subject to a referendum. Electoral reform in the Commons remained at a standstill, although in the Scottish Parliament, a coalition of Labour and the Liberal Democrats introduced STV for local elections in Scotland.\n\nIn February 2010, the Labour Government, which had been in power since 1997, used their majority to pass an amendment to their Constitutional Reform Bill to include a referendum on the introduction of AV to be held in the next Parliament, citing a desire to restore trust in Parliament in the wake of the 2009 expenses scandal. A Liberal Democrat amendment to hold the referendum earlier, and on STV, was defeated by 476 votes to 69. There was insufficient time remaining in the term of that Parliament for the Bill to become law before Parliament was dissolved; and so the move was dismissed by several Conservative and Liberal Democrat MPs as a political manoeuvre.\n\nIn the ensuing 2010 general election campaign, the Labour manifesto supported the introduction of AV via a referendum, to \"ensure that every MP is supported by the majority of their constituents voting at each election\". The Liberal Democrats argued for proportional representation, preferably by single transferable vote, and the Conservatives argued for the retention of FPTP. Both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats proposed reducing the number of MPs, while the Conservative Party argued for more equal sized constituencies.\n\nThe 2010 General Election held on 6 May resulted in a hung parliament, the first since 1974, leading to a period of negotiations. Honouring a pre-election pledge, the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg entered into negotiations with the Conservatives as the party who had won most votes and most seats. William Hague offered the Liberal Democrats a referendum on the Alternative Vote as part of a \"final offer\" in the Conservatives' negotiations for a proposed \"full and proper\" coalition between the two parties. Hague and Conservative leader David Cameron said that this was in response to Labour offering the Liberal Democrats the Alternative Vote without a referendum, although it later emerged that Labour had not made such an offer. Negotiations between the Liberal Democrats and Labour quickly ended. On 11 May 2010, Prime Minister Gordon Brown stepped down, followed by the establishment of a full coalition government between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. David Cameron became Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg became Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nThe initial Conservative – Liberal Democrat Coalition Agreement, dated 11 May 2010, detailed the issues which had been agreed between the two parties before they committed to entering into coalition. On the issue of an electoral reform referendum, it stated:\n\nFollowing the agreement between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, with the new coalition government now formed, a commitment to the referendum was included in the coalition government's Queen's Speech on 25 May 2010 as the Parliamentary Reform Bill, although with no date set for the referendum.\n\nThe coalition agreement committed both parties in the government to \"whip\" their Parliamentary parties in both the House of Commons and House of Lords to support the bill, thereby ensuring that it could reasonably be expected to be passed into law due to the simple majority in the Commons of the combined Conservative – Liberal Democrat voting bloc. The Lords can only delay, rather than block, a Bill passed by the Commons.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", reporting after the Queen's Speech, unnamed pro-referendum Cabinet members were believed to want the referendum held on 5 May 2011, to coincide with elections to the Scottish parliament, the Welsh assembly and many English local councils. Nick Clegg's prior hope of a referendum as early as October 2010 was considered unrealistic due to the parliamentary programme announced in the speech.\n\nOn 5 July 2010, Clegg announced the detailed plans for the Parliamentary Reform Bill in a statement to the House of Commons, as part of the wider package of voting and election reforms set out in the coalition agreement, including setting the referendum date as 5 May 2011. In addition to a referendum on AV, the reform bill also included the other coalition measures of reducing and resizing the Westminster parliamentary constituencies, introducing fixed term parliaments and setting the date of the next general election as 7 May 2015, changing the voting threshold for early dissolution of parliament to 55%, and providing for the recall of MPs by their constituents.\n\nThe plans to hold the vote on 5 May faced criticism from some Conservative MPs as distorting the result because turnout was predicted to be higher in those places where local elections were also held. It also faced criticism from Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish MPs for the effects it would have on their devolved elections on the same day, while Clegg himself faced further criticism from Labour, and implied lessening support from Liberal Democrat MPs, for backing down on earlier Liberal Democrat positions on proportional representation. Clegg defended the date, stating the referendum question was simple and that it would save £17m in costs. Over 45 MPs, mostly Conservatives, signed a motion calling for the date to be moved. In September 2010, Ian Davidson MP, chairman of the Commons Scottish affairs select committee, stated after consultation with the Scottish Parliament that there was \"unanimous\" opposition among Members of the Scottish Parliament (MSPs) to the referendum date, following the \"chaos\" of the combined 2007 Scottish parliament and council elections.\n\nOn 22 July 2010, the proposal for fixed term parliaments was put before parliament as the Fixed-term Parliaments Bill, while the proposals for the AV referendum, change in dissolution arrangements and equalising constituencies were put forward in the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Bill, which accordingly had three parts: Part 1, Voting system for parliamentary elections; Part 2, Parliamentary constituencies; and Part 3, Miscellaneous and general. The Bill contained the text of a proposed referendum question.\n\nThe original proposed question in English was:\n\nIn Welsh:\n\npermitting a simple YES / NO answer (to be marked with a single (X)).\n\nThis wording was criticised by the Electoral Commission, saying that \"particularly those with lower levels of education or literacy, found the question hard work and did not understand it\". The Electoral Commission recommended a changed wording to make the issue easier to understand, and the government subsequently amended the Bill to bring it into line with the Electoral Commission's recommendations.\n\nThe Bill passed an interim vote in the Commons on 7 September 2010 by 328 votes to 269.\n\nAn amendment proposed in the Lords by Lord Rooker (Independent) to require a minimum turn-out of 40% for the referendum to be valid was supported by Labour, a majority of cross-benchers and ten rebel Conservatives, and was passed by one vote. Labour's 2010 AV referendum proposal had not included such a threshold and they were criticised for seeking to impose one for this referendum, while the 2011 Welsh referendum, held under a Bill passed by Labour, also had no threshold (and would have failed if it had had one, as turnout in that referendum was only 35%). In the latter hours of debate, a \"game\" of parliamentary ping-pong saw the Commons overturning the threshold amendment before it was reimposed by the Lords, and then removed again.\n\nAfter some compromises between the two Houses on amendments, the Bill was passed into law on 16 February 2011.\n\nThe Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 provides for the holding of the referendum, and the related changes had it led to the adoption of AV. Passing the bill into law was a necessary measure before the referendum could actually take place. It received Royal Assent from Elizabeth II on 16 February 2011.\n\nThe Act has the following long title:\n\nBased on the coalition agreement, the referendum was a simple majority yes/no question as to whether to replace the current First Past the Post (FPTP) electoral system used in general elections with the Alternative Vote (AV) system.\n\nThe question posed by the referendum was:\n\nIn Wales, the question on the ballot paper also appeared in Welsh:\n\npermitting a simple YES / NO answer (to be marked with a single (X)).\n\nThe referendum took place on 5 May 2011, coinciding with various United Kingdom local elections, the 2011 Scottish Parliament election, the 2011 Welsh Assembly election and the 2011 Northern Ireland Assembly election. The deadline for voters in England, Wales and Northern Ireland to register to vote in the referendum was midnight on Thursday 14 April 2011, whilst voters in Scotland had until midnight on Friday 15 April 2011 to register. Anyone in the United Kingdom who qualified as an anonymous elector had until midnight on Tuesday 26 April 2011 to register. In the vote count, the referendum ballots in England, Scotland and Wales were counted after the various election ballots, from 4 pm on 6 May 2011. The referendum had no minimum threshold on the required turnout needed for the result to be valid.\n\nAnyone on the Electoral Register and eligible to vote in a general election was entitled to vote in the referendum. This includes British citizens living outside the UK who were registered as overseas electors. In addition, Members of the House of Lords, who are not eligible to vote in a general election, were entitled to vote in the referendum, provided they were entitled to vote in local elections.\n\nThe coalition partners campaigned on opposite sides, with the Liberal Democrats supporting AV and the Conservatives opposing it.\n\nDespite the Conservative Party's formal position, party members aligned to the Conservative Action for Electoral Reform, an internal party group in favour of electoral reform, campaigned in favour, while a BBC News report described \"some Tory MPs\" as being \"relaxed\" about a yes result. Some Conservatives campaigned in favour of AV, \"e.g.\" Andrew Boff AM; and Andrew Marshall, former head of the Conservative Group on Camden Council. The Conservative party uses a system of successive ballots to elect its leader, which has been described as a \"form of AV\" (since the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated in each round), but unlike AV, the candidates are not ranked in order of preference during each ballot.\n\nThe previous Labour government sought to introduce AV before the 2010 general election. Labour elected a new leader after the general election and almost all of the leadership candidates supported AV, including winner Ed Miliband; Andy Burnham was the sole leadership contender who was more critical of the referendum. The party has, however, voiced opposition to the bill currently providing for the referendum, on the grounds of the inclusion of boundary changes that are viewed as beneficial to the Conservative Party.\n\nPlaid Cymru supported AV, but did not take an active role in the campaign, as it focused on separate Welsh votes on the same day. The Scottish National Party, while maintaining its long standing support for PR-STV, also supported a Yes vote in the referendum. Both of these parties opposed the planned referendum date, as they did not want it held at the same time as the 2011 Welsh Assembly elections and the 2011 Scottish Parliament elections respectively.\n\nAmong the Northern Irish parties, the Alliance Party and the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) supported AV. SDLP leader Margaret Ritchie announced that her party would actively campaign in favour. Sinn Féin also supported a Yes vote, but the Democratic Unionist Party supported a No vote.\n\nThe Green Party of England and Wales voted in favour of joining the campaign for AV in the referendum at its September 2010 party conference. Many leading figures in the party supported the change as a step towards their preferred system, proportional representation. Previously, the party's leader and only MP, Caroline Lucas, had called for a referendum that included a choice of proportional representation. But at their Conference, Deputy Leader Adrian Ramsay argued that \"If you vote No in this referendum, nobody would know whether you were rejecting AV because you wanted genuine reform, or were simply opposing any reform.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom Independence Party's National Executive Committee formally announced that it would be supporting Alternative Vote, although they would prefer a proportional system. An e-mail was sent to members informing them that they may vote against AV, but are not allowed to campaign.\n\nThe British National Party supports proportional representation and has criticised AV as not being proportional. They supported a 'No' vote.\n\nThe Respect Party also supported proportional representation and campaigned against AV. Rob Hoveman, on behalf of Tower Hamlets Respect, wrote to the \"East London Advertiser\" on 24 February 2011 urging a 'No' vote on the grounds that the AV system created an even greater imbalance between votes and seats, and urging a proportional system instead.\n\nThe Scottish Green Party also supported AV, although it prefers the adoption of STV for all elections.\n\nThe Ulster Unionist Party and Traditional Unionist Voice supported a No vote. The Green Party in Northern Ireland also opposed the change to AV, as they viewed it as a betrayal of proportional representation.\n\nThe English Democrats, Christian Peoples Alliance and the Christian Party all support AV. Pirate Party UK endorsed a Yes vote, with over 90% of members expressing support for AV.\n\nThe Liberal Party agreed to support the 'Yes' campaign, seeing AV as \"a potential 'stepping stone' to further reform\" and STV.\n\nThe Communist Party of Britain opposed AV.\n\nMebyon Kernow, the Cornish nationalist party, favoured proportional representation and was disappointed that the referendum did not give voters that option. However, leader Dick Cole announced on 1 April 2011 that Mebyon Kernow would be supporting the Yes campaign.\n\nThe United Kingdom Libertarian Party favoured AV as a slight improvement on first past the post.\n\nThe Socialist Party of Great Britain adopted a neutral position, arguing \"what matters more is what we use our votes for\" in the context of class struggle.\n\nThe Socialist Party opposed AV, pointing out that it is not more proportional than First Past the Post.\n\nThe Alliance for Workers' Liberty opposed AV, arguing that it did not offer progress on the party's main democratic demands.\n\nPrime Minister David Cameron of the Conservative Party and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg of the Liberal Democrats made speeches backing the 'No' and 'Yes' campaigns respectively on the same day, but were thereafter not expected to take much part in the campaigns, although both were active since. Cameron described AV as \"undemocratic, obscure, unfair and crazy.\" He was praised for his intervention by back-bench Conservative MPs.\n\nFormer Labour foreign secretary Margaret Beckett was president of the No to AV campaign.\n\nLabour leader Ed Miliband said he would take an active part in the 'Yes' campaign, while Wales's First Minister and Welsh Labour Leader Carwyn Jones and Scottish Labour Leader Iain Gray both also supported AV. Also supporting the Yes campaign were over 50 Labour MPs including Alan Johnson, Peter Hain, Hilary Benn, John Denham, Liam Byrne, Sadiq Khan, Tessa Jowell, Ben Bradshaw, Douglas Alexander, Alistair Darling, Diane Abbott and Debbie Abrahams. Labour peers supporting the 'Yes' campaign include Lord Mandelson, Oona King, Raymond Plant (chair of Labour's 1993 working group on electoral reform), Andrew Adonis, Anthony Giddens, former Labour leader Neil Kinnock, former deputy leader Roy Hattersley and Glenys Kinnock, while further Labour figures supporting AV included former Mayor of London Ken Livingstone, Michael Cashman MEP, Tony Benn, and former Labour council candidate and wife of the Speaker Sally Bercow.\n\nThe Liberal Democrats supported a Yes vote and many individual Liberal Democrat politicians were active in the Yes campaign. The SNP leader, Alex Salmond, supported a Yes vote. UKIP are supporting a Yes vote and their principal spokesmen on the campaign will be William Dartmouth MEP and party leader, Nigel Farage MEP.\n\nSupporting the No campaign were both senior Conservative (including William Hague, Ken Clarke, George Osborne, Theresa May, Philip Hammond, Steve Norris and Baroness Warsi) and Labour politicians (including John Prescott, David Blunkett, John Reid, Tony Lloyd, John Healey, Caroline Flint, Hazel Blears, Beverley Hughes, Paul Boateng, John Hutton and Lord Falconer). The Conservative Party announced that seven MPs (Conor Burns, George Eustice, Sam Gyimah, Kwasi Kwarteng, Charlotte Leslie, Priti Patel, Chris Skidmore) and two former candidates (Chris Philp, Maggie Throup) would act as party spokesmen in the No campaign. Overall, most Labour MPs supported the No campaign rather than the Yes campaign, with other notable opponents of AV including Paul Goggins, Ann Clwyd, Sir Gerald Kaufman, Austin Mitchell, Margaret Hodge, Lindsay Hoyle, Jim Fitzpatrick, Dennis Skinner and Keith Vaz. Also supporting a No vote were crossbencher and former SDP leader Lord Owen, who supported the No to AV But Yes to PR campaign.\n\nConservative politician Michael Gove was initially mistakenly announced by the No to AV campaign as opposing AV, but his advisers stated that he had never been involved in the campaign and had not yet made up his mind. Over five Labour MPs announced as opposing AV were also found to have been wrongly included: for example, Alun Michael is supporting a 'Yes' vote, while Meg Hillier did not lend her name to either campaign.\n\nSome Conservative politicians did support AV, including John Strafford, a former member of the Conservative Party's national executive, who chaired the Conservative campaign in favour of a Yes vote.\n\nTwo campaign groups were established in response to the proposed referendum, one on each side of the debate. NOtoAV was established to campaign against the change to the Alternative Vote and YES! To Fairer Votes was established to campaign in favour.\n\nTake Back Parliament, the Electoral Reform Society, Make My Vote Count, and Unlock Democracy all campaigned in favour of the change to AV.\n\nThe GMB Union opposes the change to AV. It provided \"substantial\" sums of money to the No campaign and marshalled its members to vote No. Unions generally supported the No campaign, with only Billy Hayes, general secretary of the Communication Workers' Union, supporting AV.\n\nCompass supported the change to the AV and urged the Labour Party to do so too. It prefers a switch to a more proportional system, but viewed AV as superior to FPTP. ResPublica supported the change to AV and urged the Conservative Party to do so too. Policy Exchange opposed the change to AV. Ekklesia supported the change to AV.\n\nA report by the Institute for Public Policy Research in January 2011 was very critical of FPTP's flaws, while a report in April 2011 came down in support of AV over FPTP. However, the IPPR also previously called for a wider choice in the referendum and favours Alternative Vote Plus over FPTP or AV.\n\nA number of academics entered the debate, either in mainstream media or through blogs and social networking.\n\nThose in favour of AV included Timothy Gowers (Cambridge), David Held (LSE), Patrick Dunleavy (LSE), and Helen Margetts (Oxford), Thom Brooks (Newcastle University), Alastair McMillan (Sheffield), and Ben Saunders (Stirling).\n\nDan Felsenthal (LSE) criticised AV as \"deeply flawed\", though he also described it as \"a minor improvement on the current first-past-the-post system\".\n\nDavid S. Moon (Sheffield) argued that AV would be worse than FPTP, though he regards both as flawed and supports a move to proportional representation.\n\nAt a March 2011 Voting Power in Practice annual workshop, held at the London School of Economics (LSE), 22 voting theory specialists voted to select the \"best voting procedure\" to elect a candidate from a selection of three or more. First past the post received no votes, compared to 10 for AV, although another system, Approval Voting (not on offer in the referendum), received 15 votes.\n\nOn 11 March, 29 historians, including Niall Ferguson, Simon Sebag Montefiore, Andrew Roberts and David Starkey, wrote to the Times expressing opposition to the adoption of the Alternative Vote.\n\nGreenpeace and Friends of the Earth support the Yes! To Fairer Votes campaign, as do the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust, Operation Black Vote, the New Economics Foundation, 38 Degrees and bassac. Educational trust The Constitution Society has also worked to increase public awareness of the issues involved in the debate.\n\n\"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\", the \"Daily Mirror\", and the \"Financial Times\" supported the change to AV. \"The Sun\", the \"Daily Mail\", \"The Times\", the \"Daily Express\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" opposed AV. \"The Economist\" supported a No vote, but does want to see reform of the current electoral system. The socialist daily the \"Morning Star\" urged a No vote on the basis that AV would be no more fair than FPTP; the paper argued for the Single Transferable Vote instead.\n\nSupporting the 'Yes' campaign were campaigner and musician Billy Bragg; broadcaster and Labour peer Melvyn Bragg; campaigner and actress Joanna Lumley; Labour supporter and broadcaster Tony Robinson; designer and ethical fashion campaigner Amisha Ghadiali; Annette Lawson, chairwoman of the national alliance of women's organisations; and Simon Woolley, director and co-founder of Operation Black Vote. AV is also supported by Kevin Maguire, associate editor of the Daily Mirror newspaper, and journalist Polly Toynbee.\n\nCelebrities supporting a 'Yes' vote included comedian David Mitchell, comedian and actor Eddie Izzard, author Naomi Alderman, playwright Bonnie Greer, comedian Francesca Martinez, actress Helena Bonham Carter, Oscar award-winning actor Colin Firth, actor and Liberal Democrat supporter John Cleese, comedian Stephen Fry, actor Art Malik, John O'Farrell, actor Richard Wilson, editor and writer Rowan Davies, broadcaster Greg Dyke, co-founder of the Ministry of Sound James Palumbo, actor and comedian David Schneider, Kriss Akabusi, Chris Addison, Josie Long, Benjamin Zephaniah and Honor Blackman. Comedian and actor Steve Coogan also supported a Yes vote.\n\nSupporting a 'No' vote were television presenter Esther Rantzen, scientist and Labour peer Lord Winston; nightclub impresario Peter Stringfellow, cricketers David Gower and Darren Gough, Olympic rower James Cracknell and F1 boss Sir Frank Williams. Actor and television presenter Ross Kemp also backed the No vote.\n\nAlso supporting the 'Yes' campaign were several Church of England bishops: Michael Langrish, Bishop of Exeter; Colin Buchanan, former area Bishop of Woolwich; Alan Smith, Bishop of St Albans; John Packer, Bishop of Ripon and Leeds; Martyn Jarrett, Bishop of Beverley; Nigel Stock, Bishop of St Edmundsbury and Ipswich; Alan Wilson, Bishop of Buckingham; Michael Perham, Bishop of Gloucester; Peter Dawes, former Bishop of Derby; and David Atkinson, former Bishop of Thetford.\n\nJonathan Bartley (founder and co-director of the Ekklesia religious thinktank) supported the referendum.\n\nAnti-corruption campaigner, former broadcaster and independent MP, Martin Bell supported AV. A group of leading businesswomen and campaigners published a letter in \"The Guardian\" backing a Yes vote on 28 April 2011, with signatories including Alexandra Shulman (editor of \"Vogue\"), illustrator Daisy de Villenueve, writer Gillian Slovo, human rights lawyer Helena Kennedy, Hilary Wainwright (editor of \"Red Pepper\"), journalist Isabel Hilton, Jacqueline Rose, writer Jay Griffiths, broadcaster Joan Bakewell, rabbi Julia Neuberger, fashion designer Patsy Puttnam, journalist Polly Toynbee, Janet Todd (President of Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge), Chair of Young Labour Susan Nash, activist Tamsin Omond, financial consultant Tessa Tennant, fashion designer Vivienne Westwood, gynaecologist/campaigner Wendy Savage and journalist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown.\n\nBy around the beginning of May, the Yes campaign had spent £3.4 million compared to £2.6 million by the No campaign.\n\nThe Yes campaign revealed that they had raised £2 million (as of 15 February 2011), with 95% coming from two donors, the Electoral Reform Society and the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust. The Yes campaign also received five-figures sums from Alan Parker, who is close to both Gordon Brown and David Cameron, and Paul Marshall, a donor to the Liberal Democrats.\n\nThere were initially accusations in the press that the No campaign was refusing to publish details of their donors and the yes campaign was quicker than the no campaign in doing this, but subsequently said on 18 February 2011 they would do so before the referendum date. However, they had not done so by 28 March 2011 when the Yes campaign published an updated list of all donors of over £7,500 and launched a petition calling on the No campaign to do the same.\n\nThe No campaign released a list of donors on 9 April 2011, which included several major donors to the Conservative Party, including Lord (John) Sainsbury, Michael Farmer, Lord Harris, Lord Fink and Lord Edmiston. In total, the No campaign had raised by that date £1.8m in donations of over the declarable limit of £7,500 from 41 donors, with the largest being from philanthropist Peter Cruddas, founder of the CMC spread betting firm, who gave £400,000.\n\nThe Guardian newspaper identified 42 of the 53 named donors to the No campaign as donors to the Conservative Party, while one, the GMB union, is a donor to the Labour Party, and nine were not identified in official donor records. The remaining donor is official funding from the electoral commission. The donors include seven Conservative peers. They quote Margaret Beckett, a leading Labour No campaigner, as saying this situation is a \"necessary evil\".\n\nWhile the Yes campaign has released figures of all donations over the declarable limit since it was set up, the No campaign has not declared any donations prior to the referendum bill receiving Royal Assent, as they are not required to do under the relevant regulations. David Blunkett, a No campaigner, has called on the No campaign to do so.\n\nThe initial part of the campaign was overshadowed by continuing Parliamentary battles over the introducing Bill, which had threatened to delay the referendum date. Launching their campaign supporters of AV argued that the need for candidates to campaign for later preferences will encourage candidates to appeal to a broader cross-section of the electorate. They have also pointed out the declining number of people voting for the main two parties in the UK over recent decades.\n\nThe Yes campaign sought to present their campaign as being on behalf of members of the public. The No campaign sought to play on the unpopularity of the leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, and to present the referendum as an opportunity to punish Clegg at the polls. They also claimed that Clegg described AV as \"a miserable little compromise\" before the 2010 general election. The fuller quote says: \"I am not going to settle for a miserable little compromise thrashed out by the Labour Party. However, the Conservatives rejected the possibility of introducing PR in coalition negotiations, leading to a referendum in which the choice was between FPTP and AV.\n\nWhile officially supporting a No vote, the Conservative Party leadership reportedly initially held back on campaigning and advised major Conservative Party donors not to donate to the No campaign. However, this position changed in January 2011 and the leadership became more involved, with requests to donors to fund the No campaign and staff and party headquarters becoming directly involved in campaigning.\n\nIn mid-February, the prime minister, David Cameron, and the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, made opposing speeches advocating a 'No' and 'Yes' result respectively. Clegg argued that AV would mean \"fairer votes\" and that FPTP produced more safe seats, and linked these to the MPs' expenses scandal. He said that AV would encourage politicians to work to appeal to more of the electorate rather than just their core supporters. He stated that \"I think this [AV] is a natural evolution which reflects the fact that politics is no longer now, as it was 50 years ago when everybody was very happy to plump for the blue corner or the red corner, people want more choice now.\"\n\nCameron, in contrast, argued that FPTP delivers more accountability and claimed it reduces the number of \"hung\" parliaments. He insisted that \"when it comes to our democracy, Britain shouldn't have to settle for anyone's second choice.\" He also made the claim, on the 3 May 2011 BBC Radio4 Today Programme, that AV would undermine the fundamental principle of \"one person, one vote\". Despite the coalition parties being on different sides in the campaign, Cameron insisted that \"whatever the result\", the coalition would continue.\n\nCaroline Lucas, head of the Green Party of England and Wales said in support of AV that \"they can vote for what they believe in and I think that will be very liberating for a lot of people\".\n\nThe No campaign launched with a claim that choosing AV would cost £250 million. However, this figure was criticised on several grounds. For example, it included an estimated £82 million for holding the referendum, that would have applied whatever the referendum outcome, and failed to take into account costs saved from holding the referendum at the same time as other elections. The £250 million figure also included £130 million for the cost of electronic voting systems, although these were not used by the largest country then using AV, Australia, and there were no plans to use such machines if AV were introduced in the UK. (The referendum actually cost about £75 million, below estimates made at the time, according to the Electoral Commission.)\n\nLabour MP Douglas Alexander described the figure claimed as a \"lie\". A Channel 4 News Fact Check concluded that the specific claim that AV would require electronic counting machines, the main component of the £250 million figure, was \"fiction\". Alan Renwick likewise dismissed the suggestion that voting machines would be required, saying \"The No camp [...] say that AV would require expensive voting machines. [...] that is just plain false.\"\n\nThe Treasury stated that the adoption of AV would not lead to any spending cuts. Danny Alexander, the Liberal Democrat Chief Secretary to the Treasury and a supporter of AV himself, stated in a leaked letter that, \"The Government has no plans to reopen departmental spending review settlements as a consequence of a Yes vote in the referendum on AV.\" He also told the \"Independent on Sunday\" newspaper that, \"I don't expect to see any increase in the cost of holding a general election if the British people vote yes. There's no good reason to believe that even under a new voting system an election would need to be more expensive.\"\n\nThe No campaign launched a series of advertisements in regional newspapers based on the £250 million figure. The Yes campaign described these as \"shameful\", a \"smear\" and \"lies\", and complained to the Electoral Commission and Advertising Standards Authority, both of whom stated that they did not have powers to regulate individual adverts in the campaign.\n\nOn 5 May, David Blunkett, one of the Labour Party former-government ministers who had supported the No campaign, admitted that the £250 million figure used by the No campaign had been fabricated, and that the No campaign had knowingly lied about the figure and other claims during the campaign.\n\nSupporters of a No vote claimed that AV would lead to more coalition governments, but models of recent UK elections suggest that this may not be the case, The BBC had modelled the possible effect of AV on every general election since 1983 and concluded that the overall result would not have changed in any of them. Paddy Ashdown pointed out that in the twentieth century Australia had fewer hung Parliaments under AV than the UK had under FPTP. The report of the Independent Commission on the Voting System, issued in 1998, stated that \"There is not the slightest reason to think that AV would reduce the stability of government; it might indeed lead to larger parliamentary majorities.\"\n\nDuring the referendum campaign a BBC \"Newsnight\" special on the referendum suggested that AV would lead to a small increase in the number of hung results and Alan Renwick, author of \"A Citizen's Guide To Electoral Reform\", wrote in \"Total Politics\" magazine that \"AV makes election results more volatile, exaggerating landslides on the one hand and making coalitions more common on the other.\" However, Dennis Leech, a professor at Warwick University, has argued that coalitions will not be any more likely under AV. Vernon Bogdanor stated that:\n\nChannel 4 News FactCheck summarised the position as follows:\n\nThe No campaign argued that some people would get multiple votes under AV, and that the system was therefore contrary to the principle of \"one person, one vote\" (which they adopted as a slogan of their campaign). This was rejected by Ipsos MORI, Channel Four News and academics attached to the Yes campaign.\n\nThe Yes campaign argued that AV would be fairer, and that it would reduce or even eliminate 'safe seats', making MPs work harder. This was contested by the No campaign, again with reference to Australia. This view was supported by Alan Renwick, who stated that \"AV wouldn't significantly change the number of safe seats. Even the claim that AV would make a big dent in the number of safe seats goes further than the facts support.\" However, the New Economics Foundation think-tank, which supported a Yes vote, published modelling showing that with the introduction of AV the number of very marginal seats would have increased from 81 to 125, and the number of very safe seats would decrease from 331 to 271, although there would also have been an increase in the number of quite safe seats. The Foundation found that, with FPTP, the average number of seats changing hands per election was 13% and this could rise to 16% under AV, modestly increasing voter power overall, but concluded \"that neither system is very good at translating votes into electoral power.\"\n\nThe Yes campaign argue that AV ensures that every MP is supported by an overall majority (more than 50% of the voters). In its Guide to AV, Mori-Ipsos states \"this is not really true, but maybe it’s a defensible simplification\". AV ensures that a candidate is elected with the support of 50% of voters who have expressed a preference between the final two candidates in the contest. If some voters have indicated that they are indifferent between the final two, by not ranking either of them on the ballot paper, then the winner may be elected with the support of less than 50% of all votes cast.\n\nRawlings and Thrasher state that \"the claims that AV will guarantee local majority support can only be validated if every voter is compelled or chooses to cast a full range of preferences. There seems little prospect of that happening in a general election conducted under AV in the UK.\" Channel Four FactCheck states that it \"is right that candidates will have to aim for 50% of votes, though it is true that some candidates will end up being elected on fewer than 50% of all the votes cast.\"\n\nIn the most recent general election roughly two-thirds of MPs were elected with less than an overall majority. Rawlings and Thrasher predict that 'more than four out of ten' MPs will still not have majority support under AV. Ipsos Mori state \"It is certainly true that in many constituencies ..MPs elected under AV will have the support of a higher proportion of voters than they did under FPTP\".\n\nThe No campaign argued that only three countries use AV. They also stated that the Australian public wish to do away with AV, a claim that is false. At the time of the referendum, three nations used AV for parliamentary elections: Australia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. However, AV is also used internationally for many other forms of election.\n\nAV is used for Irish presidential elections and for by-elections in the Republic of Ireland, and in some local elections in New Zealand. In the United Kingdom, AV is used by MPs to elect the chairs of select committees, the Speaker of the House of Lords and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons. AV is also used in by-elections to select hereditary peers for the House of Lords. A variant of AV called the supplementary vote is used to elect the Mayor of London and of other UK cities. A related system called the exhaustive ballot is used to elect the Speaker of the House of Commons. AV is used for various elections in the United States (see AV in the United States).\n\nAV is used by many private organisations in the UK, for example in the leadership elections of the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats, while the leadership elections for the Conservative Party use the related exhaustive ballot. AV is also used by the Royal British Legion, and in certain trade unions and students' unions. In the US, AV is now used to decide the winner of the Oscar for Best Picture.\n\nA method similar to AV, called the two round system, is widely used internationally. For example, it is used to elect the National Assembly of France and the Presidents of eighty nations. The United States also uses primaries, followed by a second round, for the President, House of Representatives and the Senate.\n\nPR-STV is another related system. It uses a preferential ballot like AV but is used for elections in multi-seat constituencies. It is used for national elections in the Republic of Ireland, Australia and Malta, and for other purposes in many other nations.\n\nThe No campaign stressed that FPTP is used in over fifty countries, with a combined population of approximately 2.4 billion people. FPTP is used for legislature elections in the United States, India and Canada, as well as other non-G20 nations. It is used for presidential elections in twenty countries, and for various forms of election in 45 others (35 of these are Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations or British Overseas Territories).\n\nSome opponents of AV saw it as a stepping stone towards, for them unwanted, proportional representation, while some supporters of proportional representation like the British National Party saw the referendum as a lost opportunity that will delay a move to proportional representation. Both positions have been described as \"entirely speculative\". An \"Evening Standard\" editorial described the result of a 'No' win: \"the issue of electoral reform will be shelved for a generation.\" Whereas Thomas Lundberg, an electoral systems specialist at Glasgow University, wrote in a Political Studies Association paper: \"Anything that reduces the ability of small parties to win seats – a process that has been going on since the 1970s at British general elections – could be detrimental to the prospect of a PR transition. Because AV raises the threshold to victory to 50 per cent plus one vote, small parties, which often win seats on low vote shares, might be threatened unless they can win significant numbers of transfers from voters who prefer other parties.\"\n\nTactical voting means that a voter supports a candidate other than his or her sincere preference, in order to get a relatively desirable outcome. No conventional (i.e. ordinal) voting system can eliminate tactical voting (under the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem) and situations in which AV is susceptible to tactical voting can be demonstrated. The Yes to AV campaign argued that, under AV, such scenarios were rare or theoretical. The independent market research group Ipsos MORI has published a guide to AV. This states that the scenario in which tactical voting might influence the outcome of an AV election \"is very easy to demonstrate in the case of AV and is unlikely to be especially rare\". It is however true that, under AV, it is harder for the tactical voter to know what effect he is going to have so the prevalence of what is strictly defined as \"tactical voting\" may be reduced under AV.\n\nFirst-past-the-post is a monotonic voting system, while AV meets independence of clones and mutual majority criteria.\n\nThe British National Party (BNP) supported a No vote in the referendum. In response, Conservative chairman and No supporter Baroness Warsi described AV as \"a system which rewards extremism and gives oxygen to extremist groups\". In response, the Yes campaign launched advertising with the slogan, \"Say No to the BNP, Say Yes on 5th May\" pointing out the BNP's opposition to AV. The Channel 4 News FactCheck concluded the Yes campaign were correct, saying:\n\nThey go on to quote the BNP deputy chairman Simon Darby, who said: \"AV is a retrograde step – it's worse than what we've got now[.] We are never going to get our feet under the table under the AV system.\" The No2AV-Yes2PR campaign website countered that \"AV does confer a subtle benefit on extremists like the BNP: increased legitimacy. AV enables people to cast ‘free’ protest vote safe in the knowledge that they can they cast a second preference for the party they actually want.\"\n\nDennis Leech, a professor at Warwick University, has argued that extremists like the BNP are more likely to win under FPTP, but he has also argued against the notion that AV automatically favours centrists:\n\nThe final weeks of the campaign were marked by an increased rancour, with a battle of words between members of the Coalition Government. For example, Liberal Democrat energy secretary Chris Huhne threatened legal action over \"untruths\" that he claimed were told by Conservative Chancellor George Osborne that new voting machines would be required by AV, despite these not being used in Australian elections under AV and no plans to introduce them. The No campaign countered, quoting a senior returning officer (Anthony Mayer), that voting machines would be essential with AV if results are desired as quickly as today, rather than counting over the weekend after a general election. See the row over possible costs section for a fuller discussion.\n\nHuhne was reported to have strongly criticised Conservative colleagues at a Cabinet meeting in early May 2011 for the No campaign's material. However, one of the key No campaign leaflets he targeted, showing a newborn baby with the slogan \"She needs a maternity unit, not an alternative voting system\", was developed by Dan Hodges, a Labour Party campaigner working for NO2AV.\n\nLeading members of the Labour Party on different sides of the campaign also stepped up to campaign for the votes of Labour supporters, including a major newspaper interview with Peter Mandelson in which he called for a Yes vote and a major advertising campaign by the Labour Yes to Fairer Votes group, both arguing that Labour voters should vote Yes because of Conservative support for a No result. However, the No campaign responded by pointing out that a majority of Labour MPs oppose AV (130 out of 255 opposing AV, 86 in support). In the last week a grassroots campaign featuring Reform Cat in the YouTube video \"Is your Cat confused about the referendum on the voting system on the 5th May?\" which was released on 27 April 2011, gained more views than either official campaign videos.\n\nUnder the alternative vote system proposed in the referendum, voters would still be electing just one candidate associated with one geographic constituency. Instead of simply voting for one candidate on the ballot paper (with an 'X'), the voter would instead be asked to rank one or more of the candidates in order of preference. If after first preferences have been counted, no one candidate has a majority of the votes cast, then the bottom candidate will be eliminated and votes for that candidate are transferred to each voter's next available preference. The process continues repeatedly until one candidate reaches a majority and wins. The system proposed was a form of \"optional preferential voting\", in that voters would not be obliged to rank every candidate in order of preference in order to cast a valid vote.\n\nSchedule 10 to the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 proposed to amend Paragraph (5) of Rule 29 of Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983 (the \"Parliamentary Election Rules\"), so that the instructions to the voter displayed in ballot boxes would be changed from an instruction to vote for only one candidate, to read:\n\nThis was repealed by the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 (Repeal of Alternative Vote Provisions) Order 2011.\n\nThe referendum was held nationally across all four countries of the United Kingdom as a single majority vote in 440 voting areas and twelve regional count areas. In England the districts were used as the voting areas before being combined into the nine regional count areas. In Scotland the constituencies of the Scottish Parliament were the voting areas and in Wales the voting areas were the constituencies of the National Assembly for Wales and Northern Ireland was a voting area.\n\nThe following table shows the breakdown of the voting areas for the referendum within the United Kingdom.\n\nAccording to the Electoral Commission, the votes were first counted in the 440 voting areas across the United Kingdom. Except in Northern Ireland, the results from these local counts were relayed to twelve regional count areas to be officially announced by the Regional Counting Officers. Scotland and Wales were each classed as one regional count area, so votes in those areas were counted and declared locally within Scottish Parliamentary and Welsh Assembly constituency boundaries before the results were declared nationally. Northern Ireland was also classed as a single regional count area but its votes were counted and declared nationally as one unit. In England, the votes were counted and declared locally at district council level, and those results were carried over to the nine remaining regional count areas. The national result for the whole United Kingdom was announced at the Platinum Suite at the Exhibition Centre London (ExCel) by the Chief counting officer (CCO) and Chair of the Electoral Commission, Jenny Watson, at 0100 BST on Saturday 7 May 2011 after all 440 voting areas and UK regions had declared their results. With a national turnout of 42% across the United Kingdom the target to secure the majority win for the winning side was 9,639,512 votes. The decision by the electorate was a decisive \"No\" vote to adopting the alternative vote system in all future United Kingdom general elections by a majority of 6,860,516 votes over those who had voted \"Yes\" in favor of the proposal.\n\nAhead of the last results from Northern Ireland, the result was confirmed as a \"No\", as it was mathematically impossible for the \"Yes\" voters to outnumber them.\n\nFurther details of campaigning decisions emerged after the referendum result, with Dan Hodges reporting that the Conservatives had endorsed the No campaign's targeting of Nick Clegg, although they had originally opposed the idea. Hodges also reported that an aide of David Cameron secretly met No campaign leaders in a hotel room in order to stop the Liberal Democrats finding out the scale of Conservative involvement.\n\nThe Coalition Government continued and sought to present a united front after the fractious campaign. Former Conservative Cabinet minister Michael Portillo criticised Cameron, saying he \"forgot the importance of courtesy\" towards Clegg and the Liberal Democrats and, thus, the survival of the Coalition, when he joined what Portillo called \"the disgraceful No campaign\".\n\nOn 8 July 2011, the Alternative Vote Provisions were repealed, bringing the statutory process that had initiated the referendum to an end.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3664707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3664707", "title": "Abreuvoir", "text": "Abreuvoir\n\nAn abreuvoir (French: \"watering place\", \"trough\"), can mean a basin containing water or a type of masonry joint.\n\nAn \"abreuvoir\" is a watering trough, fountain, or other installed basin: originally intended to provide humans and/or animals at a rural or urban watering place with fresh drinking water. They were often located at springs. In pre-automobile era cities, they were built as equestrian water troughs for horses providing transportation. In contemporary times, \"abreuvoirs\" are also seen as civic or private fountains in the designed townscape-landscape.\n\nIn stonemasonry, as an old or obsolete term, an \"abreuvoir\" is a joint or interstice between two stones, to be filled with mortar by a stonemason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27431517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27431517", "title": "Andrij Savka", "text": "Andrij Savka\n\nAndrij Savka (transliterated)/Andrew Sawka (translated)/Андрій Савка (Ukrainian) is a Lemko bandit and folk hero from Dukla. He was born in 1619 in Stebník. In 1651, he led 500 men as part of a peasant revolt known as the Kostka-Napierski Uprising. He was the son of a church cantor, and had some education.\n"}
{"id": "3204792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204792", "title": "Arlington Group", "text": "Arlington Group\n\nThe Arlington Group is a coalition which unites the leaders of prominent Christian conservative organizations in the United States. Founded in 2002 principally through the efforts of American Family Association President Donald Wildmon and Free Congress Foundation Chairman Paul Weyrich, the group seeks to establish consensus goals and strategy among its members and translate its combined constituency into an overwhelming force within the Republican Party, particularly at its highest levels. Its membership and purpose overlaps to a high degree with the Council for National Policy; but the group is much more narrowly focused, choosing to emphasize such issues as same-sex marriage, abortion, and confirmation of like-minded federal judges.\n\nThe group's success has been mixed. While widely acknowledged to have the ear of President George W. Bush and his chief political advisor Karl Rove, and while generally successful in its efforts to coordinate the Christian Right, it has also endured noteworthy embarrassments. In early 2005, it threatened to withhold support for the President's proposed Social Security reforms if Bush did not vigorously support a federal constitutional ban on same-sex marriage. This provoked a firestorm of unwelcome media attention, but failed to produce the group's desired result (despite the President's continuing support for both their specific and broader aims). And later, in October 2005, Arlington Group Chairman and Focus on the Family founder James Dobson became the center of a minor scandal after leaking assurances made by Rove to an Arlington Group conference call regarding the pro-life credentials of Supreme Court nominee and White House counsel Harriet Miers. Miers withdrew her nomination later that month, largely due to reservations among conservatives.\n\nThe organization's deliberations are strictly off-the-record, and membership was previously held confidential, but the group launched a website in July 2006 which lists its member organizations. In March 2007, the home page was taken down; according to an article in the Boston Globe, it was \"abruptly disabled earlier this month after the Globe began making inquiries\".\n\nSince each group's principal serves as its Arlington Group \"member\", but many of the groups are headed by a single principal (e.g., Focus on the Family and Focus on the Family Action are both headed by James Dobson), the site's list is somewhat confusing; and members are not required to disclose their participation. However, the following organizations and individuals have been identified as members as of 2006:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1025622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025622", "title": "Ascribed status", "text": "Ascribed status\n\nAscribed status is the social status a person is assigned at birth or assumed involuntarily later in life. It is a position that is neither earned nor chosen but assigned. These rigid social designators remain fixed throughout an individual's life and are inseparable from the positive or negative stereotypes that are linked with one's ascribed statuses.\n\nThe practice of assigning such statuses to individuals exists cross-culturally within all societies and is based on gender, race, family origins, and ethnic backgrounds. For example, a person born into a wealthy family has a high ascribed status based solely on the social networks and economic advantages that one gains from being born into a family with more resources than others.\n\nIn contrast, an achieved status is a social position a person takes on voluntarily that reflects both personal ability and merit. An individual's occupation tends to fall under the category of an achieved status; for example, a teacher or a firefighter.\n\nIndividuals have control over their achieved statuses insofar as there are no restrictions associated with their ascribed statuses that could potentially hinder their social growth. Ascribed status plays an important role in societies because it can provide the members with a defined and unified identity. No matter where an individual's ascribed status may place him or her in the social hierarchy, most has a set of roles and expectations that are directly linked to each ascribed status and thus, provides a social personality.\n\nThe various factors that determine ascribed status are age (as in age stratification), kinship, sex, appearance, race, social group and caste.\n\nIn addition to ascription, at birth there are also:\n\nThe anthropologist, Ralph Linton, developed definitions for ascribed status and achieved status. According to Linton, ascribed status is assigned to an individual without reference to their innate differences or abilities. Achieved status is determined by an individual's performance or effort. Linton noted that while the definitions of the two concepts are clear and distinct, it is not always easy to identify whether an individual's status is ascribed or achieved. His perspective offers a deviation from the view that ascribed statuses are always fixed.\n\nReligion is generally perceived as an ascribed status but for those individuals who choose a religion as an adult, or convert to another religion, their religion becomes an achieved status, based on Linton's definition. It is commonly perceived that ascribed statuses are irreversible while achieved statuses are reversible. Linton uses Leo Schnore's research to illustrate how ascribed statuses can be both irreversible and reversible. An example of an ascribed reversible status is the status of citizenship.\n\nAn example of ascribed irreversible status is age. His conclusion is based on the fact that an ascribed status within a social structure is indicative of the behavior that one can exhibit but it does not explain the action itself. Ascribed status is an arbitrary system of classifying individuals that is not fixed in the way that most people think.\n\nStatus is a social phenomenon rather than a biological one. The meaning is derived from the collection of expectations of how an individual should behave and what the expected treatment of that individual is. If an individual lies about a biological fact or social accomplishment and this lie remains undiscovered by others and is accepted by them, then in this social system, his status will be based on the lie. His status would not be based on a biological fact or social accomplishment.\n\nBehavior toward the individual will be in accordance with the accepted lie. Consequently, behavior expected from that individual will also be in accordance with that accepted lie rather than the ascribed status that would be associated with him if the truth were known. The success of the structure requires that the expectations remain constant, even if they are illegitimately acquired, given that the truth is never discovered. This further highlights the arbitrariness of ascribed status because there is no biological basis or universal truth for assigning these societal rankings to individuals.\n\nThere is a positive correlation between an individual's self-esteem and their ascribed status; for this purpose, self-esteem is defined as a liking and respect for oneself which has its basis in reality. Individuals with a low social status generally have a lower self-esteem. A negative image of oneself among individuals with lower ascribed statuses is the result of the internalization of the expectations that others have of them and the treatment that they receive based on those statuses.\n\nThe juxtaposition of their own value systems against the larger society's view often leaves individuals of a lower status with low self-esteem without regard to the individual’s actual capabilities. A negative self-image may stifle an individual's efforts to acquire a certain achieved status; this illustrates how a low ascribed status can result in a low achieved status.\n\nAscribed statuses are determined by the dominant groups in society and as a result, minorities are often assigned lower statuses. Minority groups are forced to attempt to reconcile the conflicts that arise from the social expectations that are linked with their assigned statuses in society and their perceived view of themselves. In the face of the knowledge that individuals occupy more than one ascribed role at a time, it becomes evident that there may be some statuses in society’s multi-dimensional structure that do not comfortably coexist.\n\nConsistency is defined as the degree to which an individual’s social rank positions that exist within important status hierarchies are at a comparable level. The greater mobility of class systems produces less status consistency. In Canada, for example, most university professors with advanced academic degrees enjoy high social prestige but earn only average salaries. Low status consistency means that classes are much harder to define than castes.\n\nAt the root of the problem of status inconsistency is the inability of individuals to reconcile the conflicting expectations. A woman from a racial minority group may not experience status inconsistency because as a woman and as a member of a minority group, she may be considered to be of a lower ascribed status. But, if this woman rejects the assigned roles that are associated with her status, she experiences status inconsistency.\n\nTo offer another example, a woman born into a wealthy family occupies both a high and a low ascribed status within the social structure: her inherited resources and social networks are advantageous but her role as a woman may be considered inferior. When a person holds a high rank on one status dimension and low rank on another, the expectations of the two are often at odds with one another.\n\nThe two general consequences that arise from the tension that exists between the differing expectations are frustration and uncertainty about how one should act, given how others believe they should behave, and their own perceived notions of their abilities and the course of action that they should take to achieve their goals.\n\nWealth is not the only social characteristic that defines an individual's ascribed status. Religion is also a factor. If a person's family identifies with a particular religion, be it Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, etc., generally that person may be presumed to adopt the same religion as their biological or adopted parents. An individual's religion or absence of religion becomes a part of his or her ascribed status. The social norms of a particular religion may have different ascribed statuses than those given by the larger society because followers are ascribed status based on the religious doctrines that govern their belief. \n\nAscribed status can also be closely linked with master status, as they both involve what a person is born into. Master status is a broader term that includes more topics than ascribed status.\n\nThe castes are an example of a stratification structure based on ascribed status. Each level in the stratification structure is known as a caste. Everyone is born into a specific caste. The caste of the parents generally determines the status of their children, regardless of ability or merit. The ranks of the caste system include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17116251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116251", "title": "Bhutan Tiger Force", "text": "Bhutan Tiger Force\n\nThe Bhutan Tiger Force (BTF) is the armed wing of the Bhutan Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist-Maoist) (BCP [MLM]).\n\nOn 13 December 2007, the BTF injured a refugee at the Beldangi I camp near Sangam Chowk in Damak, Nepal.\n\nOn 23 April 2008, a bomb planted by BTF rebels was defused near a bridge in Phuntsholing. \n\nOn 30 December 2008, BTF insurgents killed four forest rangers and injured another, later took their weapons in the Singye village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41441072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41441072", "title": "Cabinet of the Czechoslovak government-in-exile", "text": "Cabinet of the Czechoslovak government-in-exile\n\nJan Šrámek formed the Czechoslovak government-in-exile after being recognised on the 21 July 1940 by Winston Churchill.\n\n21 July 1940 – 12 November 1942\n12 November 1942 – 5 April 1945\n"}
{"id": "32733458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32733458", "title": "Carl Gershman", "text": "Carl Gershman\n\nCarl Gershman (born July 20, 1943) has been the President of the National Endowment for Democracy since its 1984 founding. He had served as the U.S. Representative to the U.N.'s Committee on human rights during the first Reagan Administration.\n\nIn a 2006 interview, Gershman said, \"I have to confess that in my early youth I was a kind of a social democrat of sorts; I'm now really a democrat. I'm non-partisan; I try to bring Democrats and Republicans together in the United States.\" Carl Gershman was the Executive Director of the Social Democrats, USA (SDUSA) from 1975 to 1980, having previously been an officer of the Young People's Socialist League (YPSL). From 1965–1967, he served in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), which was a domestic version of the Peace Corps. He graduated from Horace Mann Preparatory School, from Yale University, and from the Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. He currently acts as Senior Fellow to the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights.\n\nOn July 20, 1943, Carl Gershman was born in New York City. In 1961 he graduated magna cum laude from Horace Mann Preparatory School of Riverdale in The Bronx. As an undergraduate at Yale University, he was active in the Yale Civil Rights Council, and volunteered in Mississippi and Alabama. In 1965 he graduated magna cum laude from Yale, with a Bachelor of Arts degree, and upon graduation was inducted into the honorary society Phi Beta Kappa. From 1965–1967, he served in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), which was a domestic version of the Peace Corps. In 1968 he graduated with a Master of Education from the Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. From 1969–1971 he was Research Director at the A. Philip Randolph Institute, where he assisted its director, Bayard Rustin.\n\nIn 1968, he worked in the research department of B'nai B'rith, and in 1972 he served on the Governing Council of the American Jewish Committee. From 1969–1974, Gershman successively served as Director of Research, Co-Chairman, and Executive Director of the Youth Committee for Peace in the Middle East, and edited its magazine \"Crossroads\".\n\nIn 1972 he and Irving Howe edited a collection, \"Israel, the Arabs and the Middle East\". Gershman served on the Editorial Board of \"Dissent\", which was edited by Howe.\n\nIn a 2006 interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Gershman said, \"I have to confess that, in my early youth, I was a kind of a social democrat of sorts; I'm now really a democrat; I'm non-partisan.\" From 1970–1974, Carl Gershman was a national leader of the Young People Socialist League (YPSL), the youth section of the Socialist Party of America; he served as Vice Chairman, Co-Chairman, and then Chairman of YPSL. Acting as YPSL's Vice Chairman at its 1972 December Conference, he wrote a thirteen-page, singly spaced, international-affairs document which called for the Cuba's Castro regime to stop funding guerrilla movements and also for its \"loosening the bonds\" of repression; it was approved and an alternative document calling for the U.S. to recognize Cuba's government was defeated. YPSL criticized the \"New Politics\" led by George McGovern, which had lost 49 of 50 states to Richard Nixon in the 1972 election.\n\nAt the Socialist Party Convention in December 1972, he introduced the international program, which was approved by a two to one vote; the losing alternative, proposed by Michael Harrington, called for an immediate withdrawal of U.S. forces from Vietnam, while the majority resolution called for a negotiated peace settlement.\nAt this convention, the Socialist Party changed its name to Social Democrats, USA (SDUSA) by a vote of 73 to 34. Harrington resigned from SDUSA and founded the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee (DSOC) in 1973. In 1975 Gershman published a monograph on the foreign policy of the American labor movement.\n\nGershman became a leader of SDUSA. From 1975 to January 1980, Gershman served as the Executive Director of SDUSA. In 1980, he debated Michael Harrington on the topic of foreign policy.\n\nGershman served as the U.S. Representative to the U.N.'s Committee on human rights during the first Reagan Administration. He and other members of Social Democrats, USA were called \"State Department socialists\" by , who wrote that the foreign policy of the Reagan administration was being run by Trotskyists, a claim that was called a \"myth\" by .\n\nCarl Gershman has served as the President of the National Endowment for Democracy since 1984. In a 2006 interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Gershman said\n\n\"I'm non-partisan; I try to bring Democrats and Republicans together in the United States, which is not that easy because we're very divided politically, today. And also, people from the business community and the trade union movement and intellectuals, and so forth, and try and bring people together around a common democratic faith and philosophy.\"\nIn a 1982 speech at the Palace of Westminster, President Ronald Reagan proposed an initiative \"to foster the infrastructure of democracy--the system of a free press, unions, political parties, universities.\" The U.S. government, through USAID (United States Agency for International Development), contracted The American Political Foundation to study democracy promotion, which became known as \"The Democracy Program.\" The Program recommended the creation of a bipartisan, private, non-profit corporation to be known as the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). NED, though non-governmental, would be funded primarily through annual appropriations from the U.S. government and subject to congressional oversight.\n\nNED was established in 1983 by an act of Congress. The House Foreign Affairs Committee proposed legislation to provide initial funding of $31.3 million for NED as part of the State Department Authorization Act (H.R. 2915). Included in the legislation was $13.8 million for the Free Trade Union Institute, an affiliate of the AFL-CIO (much of which went to support the Polish labor union, Solidarity), $2.5 million for an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and $5 million each for two party institutes. The conference report on H.R. 2915 was adopted by the House on November 17, 1983 and the Senate the following day. On November 18, 1983, articles of incorporation were filed in the District of Columbia to establish the National Endowment for Democracy as a nonprofit organization.\n\nNED is structured to act as a grant-making foundation, distributing funds to private non-governmental organizations for the purpose of promoting democracy abroad. Approximately half of NED's funding is allocated annually to four main U.S. organizations: the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (ACILS), the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI), and the International Republican Institute (IRI). The other half of NED's funding is awarded annually to hundreds of non-governmental organizations based abroad which apply for support.\n\nAfter the Polish people overthrew communism, their elected government awarded the Order of the Knight's Cross to him. He has awards from Romania and from the Chinese Education Democracy Foundation. He received the Light of Truth Award from the International Campaign for Tibet. He received the President's Award from George Washington University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33293986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33293986", "title": "Christian Michelides", "text": "Christian Michelides\n\nChristian Michelides (born July 19, 1957) is an Austrian psychotherapist. He is the director of Lighthouse Wien.\n\nMichelides was born in Graz. In 1973, he started to work as an opera critic of a provincial newspaper called \"Südost Tagespost\". After serving as an assistant director for plays of Eugène Ionesco and Thomas Bernhard in 1975 at Austria's National Theater, the Burgtheater, he achieved his high school diploma in 1978. Thereafter he studied arts, philosophy and history of theatre, as well as directing in Milan, Vienna and New York, while still publishing articles in Austrian and Italian journals.\n\nIn the 1980s, Michelides was a collaborator for the newly founded magazine \"WIENER\"; he then joined the ad agency \"GGK Wien\" and the marketing team of the Swiss watch Swatch in Biel. At the same time, he organized a series of exhibitions in Vienna and published some catalogues. He presented five young American photographic artists (John Dugdale, Marcus Leatherdale, Robert Mapplethorpe, Todd Watts and Joel-Peter Witkin) for the first time in Europe.\n\nIn the early 1990s, he served as an investigative journalist for the magazine \"FORVM\" and other publications in Austria and Germany. Michelides disclosed the membership of Thomas Bernhard in a conservative party organization called the \"Bauernbund\"; he also revealed that Rudolf Augstein had published in the Nazi paper \"Völkischer Beobachter\". Finally he exposed Gertrud Fussenegger, Austria's then most prominent female author, as a former avid Hitler worshipper. Michelides also discovered that the Austrian Academy of Sciences had secretly stopped awarding the Franz-Grillparzer-Preis, a prize for dramatists left in trust for that purpose by Austrian national poet Franz Grillparzer. Furthermore, he researched and documented the expansionistic endeavours of \"großdeutsch\"-orientated Alfred Toepfer and his close ties to Joseph Goebbels.\n\nAs of 1994, Michelides changed his focus to human rights activism and the defence of minorities. In June 1995 he founded the first International Human Rights Tribunal in Vienna. The tribunal was chaired by human rights activists Freda Meissner-Blau and Gerhard Oberschlick; in this tribunal, Michelides acted as the attorney general. The theme of the tribunal was the discrimination and persecution of lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender-persons in Austria during the period from 1945 to 1995.\n\nMichelides was the founder of the initiative \"Häfn human\" that counselled and visited prison inmates; he fought against discrimination of people with HIV und AIDS and participated in grassroots organisations such as Club Plus, Selfhelp Vienna and Social Work from Underneath. From 1995 to 1997, Michelides chaired the Austrian Lesbian and Gay Forum (ÖLSF) and instigated Austria's first LGBT parade, called (rainbow parade). In 1998 he started his social work for the homeless.\n\nIn 2000, Michelides founded Lighthouse Wien, a shelter for homeless drug addicts with severe traumas, many of them HIV-positive. In 2002, he graduated as a sex and mental health counselor. Since 2009 Michelides has conducted a psychoanalytic men's group. He now also works as a group analyst in private practice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178246", "title": "Clear title", "text": "Clear title\n\nClear title is the phrase used to state that the owner of real property owns it free and clear of encumbrances. In a more limited sense, it is used to state that, although the owner does not own clear title, it is nevertheless within the power of the owner to convey clear title. For example, a property may be encumbered by a mortgage. This encumbrance means that no one has clear title to the property. However, standard terms in a mortgage require the mortgage holder to release the mortgage if a certain amount of money is paid. Therefore, a buyer with enough money to satisfy both the mortgage and the current owner can get clear title.\n\nAccording to Investopedia: \"A clear title is a title without any kind of lien or levy from creditors or other parties and poses no question as to legal ownership. For example, an owner of a car with a clear title is the sole undisputed owner, and no other party can make any kind of legal claim to its ownership.\"\n"}
{"id": "26003713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26003713", "title": "Communisme", "text": "Communisme\n\nCommunisme is a French multidisciplinary academic journal in the field of communist studies, focusing in particular on the history of communism, founded in 1982 by Annie Kriegel and Stéphane Courtois. The starting objective of the journal has been to scientifically analyze the history of communism.\n\nThis French biannual multidisciplinary journal brought together specialists of different generations and targeted young people. The editorial board included: Nicolas Werth, Marc Lazar, Philippe Buton, Michel Hastings, Karel Bartosek and Denis Peschanski. Published works include both the teleological (political and doctrinal side) and social (relationships with society, social settlements) dimensions of communism.\n\nAccess to archives of the Comintern, following the collapse of the communist regimes of Eastern Europe, was interpreted by Stéphane Courtois as providing an opportunity to create a true history of communism. This approach has been criticized as \"aimed at justifying a rewrite of history, the craze for suspecting all \"affairs\", the explicit desire to exploit the political history of communism in trying to present himself as the sole possessor of the truth of communism\".\n\nSince 1993, a significant portion of the editorial board of the \"Communisme\" journal distanced themselves to express their disagreement with the evolution of the journal. Numerous stirrings agitated the editorial team of the journal, especially the Jean Moulin matter (when he was accused of being a Soviet agent) and the publication of the Black Book of Communism (under the direction of Courtois, who put Nazism and Communism on the same plane in his preface). This resulted in the resignations of the core of the editorial board, including Karel Bartosek and Nicolas Werth.\n\nThe historian Denis Peschanski, who was among the first contributors to the journal \"motivated by a desire to make communism a scientific subject\" left because he did not feel in tune with the editorial line. He explained that \"the collapse of the team began when a renewed police-related history appeared of the PCF which was a \"scoop\".\n"}
{"id": "36268894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36268894", "title": "Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus", "text": "Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus\n\nThe Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus is a congressional caucus of the United States Congress dedicated to advocacy of bills which target bullying in educational institutions and other establishments with anti-bullying legislation. It is headed by Rep. Mike Honda and was launched on June 28, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21988340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21988340", "title": "Corruption in Cuba", "text": "Corruption in Cuba\n\nCuba has suffered from widespread and rampant corruption since the establishment of the Republic of Cuba in 1902. The book \"Corruption in Cuba\" states that public ownership resulted in \"a lack of identifiable ownership and widespread misuse and theft of state resources... when given opportunity, few citizens hesitate to steal from the government.\" Furthermore, the complex relationship between governmental and economic institutions makes them especially \"prone to corruption.\"\n\nThe question of what causes corruption in Cuba presently and historically continues to be discussed and debated by scholars. Jules R. Benjamin suggests that Cuba's corrupt politics were a product of the colonial heritage of Cuban politics and the financial aid provided by the United States that favoured international sugar prices in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Following the Second World War, the level of corruption in Cuba, among many other Latin American and Caribbean countries, was said to have risen significantly. Some scholars, such as Eduardo Sáenz Rovner, attribute this to North America's increased involvement in Cuba after the First World War that isolated Cuban workers. Cubans were excluded from a large sector of the economy and unable to participate in managerial roles that were taken over by United States employers. Along similar lines, Louis A. Pérez has written that “World War Two created new opportunities for Cuban economic development, few of which, however, were fully realized. Funds were used irrationally. Corruption and graft increased and contributed in no small part to missed opportunities, but so did mismanagement and miscalculation.”\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index (CPI) gave Cuba a score of 47/100, where 0 indicates that a country is very corrupt and 100 indicates that it is very clean. Cuba ranks 62nd out of 180 countries in terms of corruption perception, which is an increase of 2 places since last years' CPI score in 2016.\n\n\"For more information: Republic of Cuba (1902-1959)\"\n\nThe Republic of Cuba at the turn of the 20th Century was largely characterized by a deeply ingrained tradition of corruption where political participation resulted in opportunities for elites to engage in opportunities for wealth accumulation. Cuba's first presidential period under Don Tomas Estrada Palma from 1902 to 1906 was considered to uphold the best standards of administrative integrity in the history of the Republic of Cuba. However, a United States intervention in 1906 resulted in Charles Edward Magoon, an American diplomat, taking over the government until 1909. It has been debated whether Magoon's government condoned or in fact engaged in corrupt practices. Hugh Thomas suggests that while Magoon disapproved of corrupt practices, corruption still persisted under his administration and he undermined the autonomy of the judiciary and their court decisions. Cuba's subsequent president, Jose Miguel Gomez, was the first to become involved in pervasive corruption and government corruption scandals. These scandals involved bribes that were allegedly paid to Cuban officials and legislators under a contract to search the Havana harbour, as well as the payment of fees to government associates and high-level officials. Gomez's successor, Mario Garcia Menocal, wanted to put an end to the corruption scandals and claimed to be committed to administrative integrity as he ran on a slogan of \"honesty, peace and work.\" Despite his intentions, corruption actually intensified under his government from 1913-1921. Instances of fraud became more common while private actors and contractors frequently colluded with public officials and legislators. Charles Edward Chapman attributes the increase of corruption to the sugar boom that occurred in Cuba under the Menocal administration. Furthermore, the emergence of World War One enabled the Cuban government to manipulate sugar prices, the sales of exports and import permits.\n\nAlfredo Zayas succeeded Menocal from 1921–25 and engaged in what Calixto Maso refers to as the most \"maximum expression of administrative corruption.\" Both petty and grand corruption spread to nearly all aspects of public life and the Cuban administration became largely characterized by nepotism as Zayas relied on friends and relatives to illegally gain greater access to wealth. Due to Zaya's previous policies, Gerardo Machado aimed to diminish corruption and improve the public sector's performance under his successive administration from 1925-1933. While he was successfully able to reduce the amounts of low level and petty corruption, grand corruption still largely persisted. Machado embarked on development projects that enabled the persistence of grand corruption through inflated costs and the creation of \"large margins\" that enabled public officials to appropriate money illegally. Under his government, opportunities for corruption became concentrated into fewer hands with \"centralized government purchasing procedures\" and the collection of bribes among a smaller number of bureaucrats and administrators. Through the development of real estate infrastructures and the growth of Cuba's tourism industry, Machado's administration was able to use insider information to profit from private sector business deals.\n\nArgote-Freyre points out that Cuba's population under the Republic had a high tolerance for corruption. Furthermore, Cubans knew and criticized who was corrupt, but admired them for their ability to act as \"criminals with impunity.\" Corrupt officials went beyond members of congress to also include military officials who granted favours to residents and accepted bribes. The establishment of an illegal gambling network within the military enabled army personnel such as Lieutenant Colonel Pedraza and Major Mariné to engage in extensive illegal gambling activities. Mauricio Augusto Font and Alfonso Quiroz, authors of \"The Cuban Republic and José Martí\", say that corruption pervaded in public life under the administrations of Presidents Ramón Grau and Carlos Prío Socarrás. Prío was reported to have stolen over $90 million in public funds, which was equivalent to one fourth of the annual national budget. Senator Eduardo Chibás dedicated himself to exposing corruption in the Cuban government, and formed the Partido Ortodoxo in 1947 to further this aim.\n\nPrior to the Communist revolution, Cuba was ruled under the elected government of Fulgencio Batista from 1940-1944. Throughout this time period, Batista's support base consisted mainly of corrupt politicians and military officials. Batista himself was able to heavily profit from the regime before coming into power through inflated government contracts and gambling proceeds. In 1942, the British Foreign Office reported that the U.S. State Department was \"very worried\" about corruption under President Fulgencio Batista, describing the problem as \"endemic\" and exceeding \"anything which had gone on previously.\" British diplomats believed that corruption was rooted within Cuba's most powerful institutions, with the highest individuals in government and military being heavily involved in gambling and the drug trade. In terms of civil society, Eduardo Saenz Rovner writes that corruption within the Police and government enabled the expansion of criminal organizations in Cuba. Batista refused U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt's offer to send experts to help reform the Cuban Civil Service.\n\nLater in 1952, Batista led a U-S backed military coup against Prío Socarras and ruled until 1965. Under his rule, Batista led a corrupt dictatorship that involved close links with organized crime organizations and the reduction of civil freedoms of Cubans. This period resulted in Bastista engaging in more \"sophisticated practices of corruption\" at both the administrative and civil society levels. Batista and his administration engaged in profiteering from the lottery as well as illegal gambling. Corruption further flourished in civil society through increasing amounts of police corruption, censorship of the press as well as media, and creating anti-communist campaigns that suppressed opposition with violence, torture and public executions. The former culture of toleration and acceptance towards corruption also dissolved with the dictatorship of Batista. For instance, one citizen wrote that \"however corrupt Grau and Prío were, we elected them and therefore allowed them to steal from us. Batista robs us without our permission.” Corruption under Batista further expanded into the economic sector with alliances that he forged with foreign investors and the prevalence of illegal casinos and criminal organizations in the country's capital of Havana.\n\n\"For more information: Cuban Revolution\"\n\nCorruption in the Batista government has been cited as a key factor that led to his overthrow in 1959. Timothy Gaman writes that \"Cuba became a cesspool of corruption, illegal drugs and prostitution.\" Despite the United States' initial support of Batista, John F. Kennedy stated in 1961 that,\"The character of the Batista regime in Cuba made a violent popular reaction almost inevitable. The rapacity of the leadership, the corruption of the government, the brutality of the police, the regime's indifference to the needs of the people for education, medical care, housing, for social justice and economic opportunity-all these, in Cuba as elsewhere, constituted an open invitation to revolution.\"Once the Communist Party of Cuba took control of the government, Fidel Castro immediately began to eliminate all remnants of the former \"batistiano\" system that was seen as highly corrupt. This involved executing several hundred \"batistianos\" and calling for the confiscation of wealth of corrupt officials among other actions. In 1959, Fidel Castro issued a series of law decrees that enabled the confiscation of private property in addition to funds that were previously controlled by Batista and his collaborators. The Cuban government thus transformed from a corrupt military dictatorship system to a single-party socialist authoritarian state.\n\nDespite their efforts to rid Cuba of any former corruption that persisted under Batista, Sergio Diaz-Briquets and Jorge F. Pérez-López, in the book \"Corruption in Cuba\", argue that the government of Fidel and Raul Castro institutionalized corruption with government monopolies, cronyism, and lack of accountability. Moreover, Daniel Erikson writes that Castro's control of economic resources transformed Cuba into \"the most captured state in Latin America\" and suggests that corruption might have increased, rather than decreased after the Cuban Revolution. While the state has no toleration for political or economic opposition to the government, a system of special advantages evolved for high-ranking members of the Cuban nomenklatura and the military as they were able to enjoy privileges that were unavailable to ordinary citizens. The nomenklatura, a term adopted by the former Soviet Union, referred to list of key positions and appointments within the government made by the Communist Party. This privileged group of political elites were particularly subject to corruption due to their access to state resources. As such, the nomenklatura were able to benefit from certain privileges that are not available to the general public including, but not limited to, being exempt from the rationing system, obtaining imported foods and consumer goods, gaining access to better housing as well as special hospitals and medications, and having the ability to travel abroad. The Cuban nomenklatura were also referred to as \"pinchos\", \"pinchos grandes\" or \"mayimbes\".\n\nBy 1968, the Cuban state had nationalized 100% of the industry, construction, transportation, retail trade, wholesale and foreign trade, banking and education. By 1988, they further controlled 92% of the state's agriculture. As a result of their large share of ownership, measuring corruption in Cuba proves to be difficult. Citizens have limited possibilities to appeal against arbitrary or take actions against instances of unjust government action. However, as Pérez-López writes, there is some available information on Cuba's corrupt activities regarding former black market operations, the misuse of office and presence of the Cuban nomenklatura. Other forms of corrupt behaviour such as paying bribes were likely present, but are much more difficult to measure. Professor Esteban Morales Domínguez also states that the illegal market in Cuba's economy was able to emerge due to \"large imbalances between supply and demand\" that result in \"hidden leaders\" offering alternatives to state resources and services.\n\nOn a micro-level, corruption under the socialist economy involved ordinary citizens engaging in acts of petty corruption in everyday life. Díaz-Briquets and Pérez-López have argued that the socialist economy resulted in the rise of social attitudes that condone taking advantage of inequalities in income and assets for personal benefit. This was mainly developed through the confiscation of private assets and expropriation of personal property. As a result, they suggest that the scarcity of goods and services resulted in the widespread prevalence of petty corruption and crimes. On the other hand, Mark Kruger states that Cuba has had one of the lowest crime rates in Latin America and the Caribbean, specifically referencing the low rates of domestic violence and violence against women. Nonetheless, theft from the state sector became the main source of resources and products that entered the black market in Cuba. One Cuban attorney from a cigar factory described the petty theft issue as individuals \"faced with shortages of food and basic consumer-products, workers steal from the workplaces where something is made in order to ease their needs.\" Other instances of documented theft included stealing bottles of rum, beer, slaughtering stolen cattle, stealing cigarette papers, and more.\n\nFrom a government standpoint, public officials in Cuba largely engaged in corrupt practices through the diversion of state resources for personal gains and taking bribes in return for discussing benefits. For example, one scandal broke out in which a manager of the Antonio Guiteras sugar mill had used construction materials to build his own personal pig pen outside of his home. Through a centrally planned economy, the lack of independent civil society organizations and a government controlled press, Klitgaard suggests that this created the perfect conditions under a socialist society for which corruption could flourish. Cuban government officials were able to enjoy privileges possessed by few others along with a low degree of accountability for their actions and control over the supply of goods and services.\n\nIn the 1990s, corruption changed its form and visibility due to the changing economic structures that enabled more space for the private sector. Jorge Dominguez thus writes that the marketization of the economy in the 1990s contributed to corruption through the \"interaction of state and economy\" despite its limited nature. New opportunities for corruption were created due to the lack of legal institutions and property rights to account for the transitioning economy. The new economic system of the 1990s in Cuba included new, limited opportunities for self-employment in newly private industries such as restaurants. However, due to the scarcity of these jobs, a large proportion of the Cuban population resorted to working in the black market and underground economy. Cuban citizens further depended on black markets for access to basic resources that exhibit high costs under state-led businesses.\n\n\"Sociolismo\" is the informal term used in Cuba to describe the reciprocal exchange of favours by individuals, usually relating to circumventing bureaucratic restrictions or obtaining hard-to-find goods. Ramón de la Cruz Ochoa, Cuba's General Prosecutor of the Republic, stated that he viewed \"sociolismo\" as one of the main corruption problems in Cuba. This system involves rewarding friends and family of government officials and generally results in individuals disregarding the rule of law. Gary Marx wrote that \"in cash-poor Cuba, connections are as good as currency\" and thus the system of \"sociolismo\" is able to flourish. Furthermore, \"sociolismo\" expanded into daily life as it involved maintaining relationships with individuals that had access to resources. Personal ties are used in Cuba in nearly every aspect of daily life, from receiving extra food that is rationed by the government to securing spaces in schools for children. In relation to \"sociolismo\", Fernández also uses the term \"lo informal\" to refer to the behavioural patterns involving likability (\"simpatia)\", familiarity that leads to trust (\"confianza),\" and being a nice person (\"ser buena gente)\" that serve create informal networks and bypass legal norms. In turn, participation in \"lo informal\" results in individuals engaging in a \"culture of illegality\" and becoming accustomed to breaking the law. In terms of the word's origin, it is derived from the Spanish word \"socio\" which means business partner or buddy, and is a pun on \"socialismo\", the Spanish term for socialism. It is analogous to the \"blat\" of the Soviet Union.\n\nErikson identifies the control of corruption as one of the main obstacles that Cuba must overcome in order to transition successfully away from authoritarian rule to democracy. The Cuba Transition Project (CTP) has aimed to propose anti-corruption policies as an important component of a greater transition strategy for Cuba. In 2001, the Cuban Government set up a Ministry for Auditing and Control to investigate corruption and improve efficiency in the Cuban economy. However, Lopez and Diaz-Briquets have pointed out that this system relies upon transparency and accountability in order to function, which is lacking in Cuba through their tendencies to hide budgetary and financial information. A BBC news article stated that foreign businessmen in Cuba said levels of corruption were lower than in most other countries in Latin America. BBC says that \"Inspectors went to thousands of state-run enterprises and consistently found customers being short-changed. The offences included beer mugs being only partially filled, taxi rides being charged at almost five times the going rate, government price lists being hidden, even shoe repairers charging vastly inflated rates.\"\n\nFidel Castro announced in 2005 his new efforts to root out cases of corruption and avoid maldistribution of government goods and services. This included a major housing initiative that involved the participation of local governments and citizens as a strategy to prevent corrupt practices and maximize the benefits of the housing program. Castro later promised in the same year to embark on a battle against theft, immoral conduct and misuse of government resources. After Raúl Castro took power in 2006, over 10 corruption scandals have been uncovered and several public servants were arrested. In 2008, Raúl Castro's government led additional initiatives to crack down on possible corruption cases through auditing and inspections. This led to the conviction of Rogelio Acevedo who had leased Cuba's airline's planes and was found with millions of dollars worth of cash in his home. Raúl Castro later created the Office of the Comptroller General to fight corruption after stating that corruption risked destroying Cuba's \"values and morality and it corrodes our institutions.\" Among other convictions, high-level employees from the Tourist Agency \"Sol y Son\" as well as the food company \"Río Zaza\" were arrested for fraud and bribery. Both companies were said to have had ties to a previously arrested corrupt businessman and close friend of Fidel Castro.\n"}
{"id": "41107761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107761", "title": "Corruption in Romania", "text": "Corruption in Romania\n\nCorruption in Romania can be found in the politics, military, health care and private businesses and poses concerns for foreign investors. Although there have been improvements since the fall of the communist regime in 1989, corruption remains a problem in Romania as it is especially found on all levels of public office, in the police force as well as in the judiciary system. According to Transparency International's annual Corruption Perceptions Index, as of 2017, Romania is the third most corrupt country in the European Union after Bulgaria, Hungary and at the same level as Greece. The same index also ranks the country as the 59th most corrupt nation out of 180 countries. Generally, despite efforts using laws and regulations to prevent corruption, enforcement has been weak. Since 2014 however, the investigation and prosecution of medium- and high-level political, judicial and administrative officials by the National Anticorruption Directorate has increased The National Anticorruption Directorate was established in 2002 by the Romanian government to investigate and prosecute corruption related offenses causing damage to the Romanian state. \n\nIn terms of scandals, corruption was cited among many issues that provoked the 2012–15 social unrest, the 2015 protests following the Colectiv nightclub fire, and the 2017 protests.\n\nAfter the fall of communism in 1989, Romania has struggled and is still struggling with its transition towards democracy and establishing a well-functioning judicial system. When the treaty was signed with the European Union, former president Traian Băsescu mentioned that \"Romania [was] not yet prepared to meet the European Union's standards.\" Since entering the EU, Romania has somewhat improved transparency and accountability in the public sector, but the European Commission still considers the government's reform to be slow and weak. The poor implementation of laws on the transparency of information and decision-making processes between government officials coupled with the bribes and conflicts of interests in public procurement practices makes the judicial system ineffective in fighting against corruption. This has had consequences in effectively using the European Union's funds towards developing the country. Although it plays a considerable role in the country's stagnant path towards progress, corruption is only one of the issues among others. Other factors include the administrative capacity of public purchasers, the lack of stability and fragmentation of the legal framework, the quality of competition in public procurement and few others listed in the Report from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council.\n\nIn 2012, the European Commission expressed concerns about the rule of law, pointing to the power struggle between Prime Minister Victor Ponta and President Traian Băsescu, which gave rise to what is called the 2012 political crisis. The Commission also criticized Romania for failing to root out corruption in its state institutions. One year later, the Chamber of Deputies passed without parliamentary debate several controversial amendments to the Penal Code, including that the country's president, senators, members of the lower chamber, as well as lawyers are no longer to be considered \"public officials\". These actors can as a result take part in illicit interests without being held accountable for abuse of office, bribery, conflicts of interest and other corruption crimes. The amendments were sharply criticized by Romanian opposition parties and European leaders, while the Constitutional Court of Romania cataloged this move as unconstitutional.\n\nThe report from the US Department of State published in May 2015 demonstrates that the government of Romania still takes part in corrupt activities such as bypassing standard legislative procedures and imposing fines on infrastructure in certain sectors like the energy industry. The lack of political will demonstrated by the 2012 political crisis as well as the under-funding of the National Anticorruption Directorate poses a major challenge in investigating and enforcing sanctions to bureaucratic corruption. Although the National Anticorruption Directorate has taken action in investigating corrupt cases, enforcing sanctions remains weak and staff and inspection procedures are under-resourced. As it is mentioned in the report, \"conflict of interest, respect for standards of ethical conduct, and integrity in public office in general remain a concern for all three branches of government\" and the National Anticorruption Directorate will further its initiatives in tackling the problem.\n\nIn 2014, the National Anticorruption Directorate indicted 1,138 authorities. Among them were politicians, judges and prosecutors, and businessmen. \n\nIn 2015, the number of filed cases against high-level politicians and businessmen that committed corrupt acts has increased by an additional 1,250 people and has had a substantial social impact. Out of those people are Prime Minister Victor Ponta, 5 ministers and 21 parliamentarians. There have been 970 final convictions throughout the year and the amount of damages recovered has increased to €194.37 million.\n\nIn 2016, 1,270 more people were brought to trial, including 3 ministers, 17 parliamentarians, 47 mayors, 16 magistrates and 21 CEOs. The amount of damages recovered has increased to €226 million.\n\n2017 marked the year where an additional 997 individuals were accused and found guilty by the National Anticorruption Directorate, including the former President of the Chamber of Deputies, 6 parliamentarians, 3 ministers, 49 mayors, 6 magistrates and 11 CEOs. The amount of damages recovered has decreased to €159.5 million.\n\nIn January 2017, the newly appointed government modified the Penal Code and Penal Procedure Code overnight as a way to fix the issue of overcrowding in prisons. Opponents released accusations that the government has actually modified the Codes as a way to decriminalize political corruption, to release former politicians from prison without punishment and to stop any accusations and investigations made to current authorities. 24 hours later, the biggest protest since the fall of communism was witnessed, with 300,000 civilians manifesting their opposition to the government's actions in front of Victoria Palace. In February 2017, the protests held reached an unprecedented turnout of 500,000 people. The anti-corruption measures taken by civilians resulted in the withdrawal of the bills and the resignation of the former minister of justice. Since then, multiple protests composed of hundreds of thousands of Romanians have continued as a way to tackle corruption within the government. According to the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Commission, the promotion of integrity, accountability, and transparency by civil society organizations have made significant contributions to the decline of corruption.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5399607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5399607", "title": "Courtesy call", "text": "Courtesy call\n\nA courtesy call is a call or visit made out of politeness.\nIn diplomacy, a courtesy call is a formal meeting in which a diplomat or representative or a famous person of a nation pays a visit out of courtesy to a head of state or state office holder. Courtesy calls may be paid by another head of state, a prime minister, a minister (Government), or a diplomat. The meeting is usually of symbolic value and rarely involves a detailed discussion of issues. \n\nA newly appointed head of mission will usually make a courtesy call to the receiving foreign minister, head of government, and often other dignitaries such as the local mayor. It is also customary for a new head of mission to make courtesy calls to other heads of missions in the capital and often to receive return courtesy calls. Neglecting to pay a courtesy call to missions of smaller countries may result in them resenting the newly arrived mission head. Upon the departure of a head of mission, an additional round of courtesy calls is often expected. Fulfilling this protocol obligation is a time consuming task, with one diplomat noting it took him five months to complete a round in Washington DC.\n\nDiplomatic convention states courtesy calls last 20 minutes, which is some cases is excessive with both sides searching frantically for what to say, though some ambassadors consult an encyclopedia prior to the call to prepare talking points. In other cases, in which the meeting sides have joint items to discuss, a call may last an hour or two. Diplomatic personnel are split on the value of courtesy calls, some seeing them as a time wasting tradition while others see them as a means to secure a valuable introduction. In some cases, it is possible to arrange a joint courtesy call by visiting a senior ambassador who will, by prearrangement, assemble his regional colleagues for the meeting.\n\nCourtesy calls to cabinet members and members of parliament or congress are important and may lay the foundation for a continuing relationship. In Western democracies, ambassadors will pay calls to leaders of minor and major opposition parties as a change of government may occur at a future point. Such calls are important, and the ambassador must take care to cultivate the opposition without offending the incumbents. Calls to civic dignitaries of major cities, newspaper editors, and trade unions are also performed.\n\nNaval courtesy calls were common in the 19th century. The American Great White Fleet paid a series of courtesy calls to ports around the world in a show of American naval strength in 1907-1909.\n\nUnited States Navy regulations require that (upon joining a new ship or station) an officer must make a courtesy call to his new commanding officer or commandant within 48 hours after joining.\n\nIn business a courtesy call is a visit or call from a company to customers for the purposes of gauging satisfaction or to thank them for their patronage.\n"}
{"id": "2348957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348957", "title": "European Climate Change Programme", "text": "European Climate Change Programme\n\nThe European Climate Change Programme (ECCP) was launched in June 2000 by the European Union's European Commission, with the purpose of avoiding dangerous climate change.\n\nThe goal of the ECCP is to identify, develop and implement all the necessary elements of an EU strategy to implement the Kyoto Protocol. All EU countries' ratifications of the Kyoto Protocol were deposited simultaneously on 31 May 2002. The ECCP involved all the relevant stakeholders working together, including representatives from Commission's different departments, the member states, industry and environmental groups. \n\nThe European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) is perhaps the most significant contribution of the ECCP, and the EU ETS is the largest greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme in the world.\n\nIn 1996 the EU adopted a target of a maximum 2°C rise in global mean temperature, compared to pre-industrial levels. Since then, European Leaders have reaffirmed this goal several times. Due to only minor efforts in global Climate change mitigation it is highly likely that the world will not be able to reach this particular target. The EU might then be forced to accept a less ambitious target or to change its climate policy paradigm.\n\nUnder the framework of the European Climate Change Programme, the European Commission was to present in mid- a Communication to the European Parliament and European Council on a revised Community strategy to reduce CO emissions from light-duty vehicles. This review will be based on a thorough impact assessment of the existing Community target of a new car fleet average emission of 120 CO g/km and of the possible measures that could form part of a revised strategy based on an integrated approach to CO emissions reductions.\n\nOn 7 February 2007, the European Commission announced plans for new legislation requiring the average carbon dioxide emissions of the vehicles produced in 2012 to be no more than 130 g/km. This is a bit more than the goal of 120, which corresponds to 4.5 L/100 km for diesel and 5 L/100 km for gasoline engines.\n\nIn March 2011, the European Commission presented the EU Transport Roadmap, which shows pathways to achieve a 60% cut in greenhouse gases from all modes of transport by 2050.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31383333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31383333", "title": "Federal political financing in Canada", "text": "Federal political financing in Canada\n\nThe fair and transparent financing of political parties, candidates, and election campaigns is a key determinant in the health and proper functioning of a democracy. How political parties and candidates at the federal level are funded in Canada is described by issues such as funding mechanisms, relative levels of public and private funding, levels of democratic participation, and questions of fairness and transparency.\n\nCanada's federal political parties receive the most significant portion of public funding at election times that is based on what they have spent through electoral expense reimbursements.\n\nBetween elections, Canada's federal political parties have as their two primary sources of funding:\n\n\nThese sources of funding determine, along with loans and secondary revenue sources, how much money the federal political parties have available to spend.\n\"(Source: Elections Canada)\"\n\nPublic funding of Canada's federal political parties is allocated in two ways:\n\n\nThe per-vote subsidy (amounting to $27.7 million in 2009), also referred to as the \"government allowance\", the \"quarterly allowance\", or the \"direct public subsidy\", was argued by some political commentators to be the most democratic of the three funding mechanisms: The choices of 100% of voters of eligible parties (13,675,146 individual Canadians or 99% of all valid votes in the preceding election) are taken into account, all on an equal-basis.\n\nWhile some argue that political contributions are democratic by virtue of being completely voluntary, statistics show that upper income individuals make the large majority of political contributions and stand to gain the most by way of tax incentives for those contributions.\n\nThe electoral expense reimbursement, which accounts for the largest part of the public financing following an election ($54 million in 2009), reimburses 50%-60% of a party's expenses on elections - the more a party spends during an election, the more public funds they get back.\n\n\"(Tax credits approximate. Electoral expenses reimbursements include estimated riding/candidate level reimbursements. Sources: Elections Canada, Globe and Mail)\"\n\nUntil 2015, every registered federal political party that received inflation-indexed subsidy each year of $1.53-$2.04 per vote received in the preceding election.\n\nIn 2006, in an Ontario Court of Justice ruling , several small federal parties had successfully challenged provisions in the original law that limited reimbursement to parties receiving at least 2% of all valid votes in the preceding general election or at least 5% of the valid votes in the electoral districts in which it had a candidate. Judge P. Theodore Matlow ruled that \"the law made it difficult for members of small parties to \"play a meaningful role in the electoral process.\" . They were reimbursed retroactively for funds withheld from them.\n\nThis removal however opened the government to criticism of funding small extremist parties including the Marijuana Party of Canada, Communist Party of Canada, Christian Heritage Party of Canada who had participated in the suit along with the less generally controversial Green Party of Canada, Progressive Canadian Party of Canada and Canadian Action Party.\n\nThe per-vote subsidy was removed in stages after the passing of the \"Keeping Canada’s Economy & Jobs Growing Act\", a bill introduced by the Conservative Party in October 2011.\n\nOf the three ways in which federal parties are allocated public funding, the per-vote subsidy is largely argued as the most democratic as it rewards each vote absolutely equally. However, there are reasons to believe that it creates perverse incentives, such as running for votes where candidates cannot win, thus defeating (at least under first past the post voting) the party's own policy objectives, and muddying it's potential alliances with every other party once legislatures sit. Election financing is a complex issue that has been studied in depth academically \n\n100% of the voters of eligible parties (99% of all voters in the preceding election) have a say, with their input treated on equal basis (1 voter, 1 vote).\n\nThe subsidy entered into effect on January 1, 2004, at $1.75 per vote (indexed to the Consumer Price Index) as part of a set of amendments made by the Jean Chrétien government to the Canada Elections Act which for the first time set limits on political contributions by individuals and organizations (corporations, unions, non-profit groups). The per-vote subsidy was introduced to replace the reliance of political parties and candidates on corporate, union, and wealthy donors in order to reduce the political influence of such donors.\n\nAfter the 2006 court challenge to remove the 2%/5% threshold, the subsidy was reduced to $1.53 by the Harper government on April 1, 2012, and was reduced on each subsequent April 1, until its elimination in 2015..\n\nPolitical contributions are publicly subsidized via a personal income tax credit that credits 75% of the first $400 contributed, 50% of the amount between $400 and $750, and 33.33% of the amount over $750, up to a maximum tax credit of $650 (reached when contributions by an individual total $1,275 in one calendar year.) As of 2017, the maximum political contribution is $1,550 and increases by $25 each year thereafter. this can be given to the national organization of each party, the tax credit is $650, representing a subsidy of 42%.\n\"(Source: Elections Canada, Statement of Contributions Received, Part 2a)\"\n\nWhen an election takes place, perhaps the most significant source of public funding for the federal political parties is the election expenses reimbursement which subsidizes 50% of the national campaign expenses of any party that obtains at least 2 per cent support, or at least 5 per cent in the ridings (electoral districts) in which they presented candidates. In addition to this, the parties' riding organizations are also reimbursed 60% of all expenses incurred by their candidates in each riding where they obtained at least 10% of the votes, plus 100% of allowable \"personal expenses\". The reimbursements are also referred to as \"government rebates\", \"government transfers\", or \"election rebates\".\n\nUnder this subsidy, the more a party spends, the more they are subsidized. The subsidy therefore magnifies the public funds allocated by tax credits on political contributions and by the per-vote subsidies. It also means that loans to political parties and their candidates can play a significant role in determining how much public money is received by the parties.\n\nDuring the 2008 election, the Conservatives spent the most, and, as a result, received the largest reimbursements under this public subsidy in 2009.\n\nPrivate funding of the federal political parties occurs through political contributions made by individuals, but these contributions are vastly subsidized by public funds disbursed through tax credits.\n\nAs of 2017, the maximum yearly contribution limit is $1550 to a given federal political party, $1550 to a given party's riding associations, $1550 to a given party's leadership candidates, and $1550 for each independent candidate. The total tax credit for all contributions is capped at $650, representing a subsidy of 42%.\n\nOf the $46 million in political contributions received in 2009 by federal party organizations and riding associations, between $28.5 million and $31 million of the contributions was publicly funded - through tax credits amounting to between 62% and 67.5% - while between $15 million and $17.5 million was net private funding.\n\"(Public funding includes electoral expenses reimbursements. Tax credits estimated. Sources: Elections Canada, Globe and Mail)\"\n\nIn order to solicit political monetary contributions, fundraising is a major focus for many parties that involves hiring fundraising experts, and employing sophisticated database systems, email lists, newsletters, and telemarketing.\n\nThe Conservative Party, for example, is reported to make phone calls or send letters to about 200,000 people a month, and conducts surveys to collect and feed information on the views of individuals into its database referred to as CIMS, an acronym for \"Constituent Information Management System\". The information stored in the database is then used to customize mailings and phone calls for each targeted donor to appeal to them specifically on issues that they are known to react more strongly to.\n\nOther associated overhead for fundraising include legal consultation, processing, accounting, auditing, and reporting costs.\n\"(Sources: Elections Canada, Globe and Mail)\"\n\n<br>In 2009, the overhead cost of fundraising for the top three parties exceeded the net private funds they raised. They spent a combined $11.2 million on fundraising at the party level (riding-level expenses not included), according to their 2009 annual party returns, to raise approximately $10.3 million in net private funds.\n\nIn 2006, it was revealed during the Liberal leadership contest that one candidate, Joe Volpe, had received a total of $108,000 in contributions from 20 individuals that were all in some way connected to the top corporate executives of Apotex Pharmaceuticals. Each of the 20 individuals - which included 11-year-old twin boys and a 14-year-old boy - gave exactly $5,400, the maximum allowed at the time.\n\nAccording to political financing expert Louis Massicotte, a political scientist from Université Laval, political systems that rely heavily on political contributions from individuals can encourage corruption. In 2010-2011, it was discovered that corporations had been funnelling money to major provincial political parties by disguising the corporate funds as individual political contributions made by their employees, circumventing the political fundraising laws. Former employees of one corporation flatly admitted that political contributions had illicitly been made in their name.\n\nAt the provincial level in Quebec, the far-reaching influence of fundraisers over everything from the selection of judges to the distribution of construction contracts fuelled widespread demand for a public inquiry into political corruption, and caused the Jean Charest Liberal government and other major political parties to agree to increase the provincial per-vote subsidy as a way to reduce the influence of party bagmen (influence peddling political fundraisers) over government decisions and policies.\n\nPolitical parties are only required to report the identities of contributors that have given a total of over $200 to one riding association or the central organization. For donations of $200 or less, receipts must be kept by the individual riding associations, but Elections Canada has no way to keep track of them. Completely anonymous contributions of $20 or less are permitted.\n\n\"(Source: Elections Canada)\"\n\nIn 1997, Industry Minister John Manley only disclosed the identities of individuals and corporations who contributed $10,150 and $15,800, respectively, to his re-election campaign. However, he did not disclose where $74,664 - received through his riding association - had originally come from.\n\nIn July 2002, Paul Martin refused to reveal the names of donors to his leadership campaign, claiming that new disclosure rules brought in a month earlier applied only to current cabinet and not to a former cabinet minister as he was, and that he did not think it would be fair to name people who had donated to his campaign before the new disclosure rules were in effect.\n\nIn October 2002, Stephen Harper initially did not reveal the names of anyone who had donated to his leadership campaign. While he later quietly posted a few names - those of 54 donors who had given more than $1,075 each - he continued to keep secret the identities of 10 other large donors and the names of more than 9,000 donors who each gave sums of less than $1,000 each.\n\nIn 2009, an annual report by Global Integrity, an independent non-profit organization that tracks corruption trends around the world, said that Canada posted a slight \"downward tick\" based on secrecy surrounding political financing and gaps in government accountability.\n\nAccording to Global Integrity, \"Canada is a really interesting case\" in that while, it had a generally positive rating, there are \"unique gaps in the system that are strange,\" including the fact that political financing loans to candidates are confidential.\n\nAccording to Ottawa-based Democracy Watch: \"Government integrity continues to be undermined by loopholes that allow secret donations to some candidates.\"\n\nElections Canada confirmed in 2007 that individuals could illegally contribute as much as $60,500 over the $1,100 limit and not be detected - simply by donating $200 to each of a party's 308 riding associations.\n\nElections Canada claimed that it currently cannot track donations of $200 or less because \"we do not get the receipts\" from the individual riding associations.\nUnder current regulations, a party's individual riding associations are only required to report the identities of contributors with total contributions to the riding of over $200. Contributions of $200 or less are allowed to be reported in aggregate, with no break-down by contributor required that would allow for proper cross-checking across a party's ridings associations.\n\nAt the time, the NDP called for the loophole to be plugged.\nThe Conservative government responded that\n\"this is no more a loophole than the fact that someone can break the law by fraudulently misstating their income on their income tax.\"\nIt rejected\ncalls by the opposition for Elections Canada to be given new measures\nand tools to be able to detect multiple donations across a party's\nridings that exceed the contribution limit.\n\nThe Conservative Party has targeted the per-vote subsidy for elimination, while favouring the generous public subsidy of private political contributions. All of the other major Canadian parties - the Liberals, NDP, Bloc, and Green Party - oppose the elimination of the per-vote subsidy.\n\nThe Conservative government first tried to eliminate the per-vote subsidy in November 2008, just after the federal election of October 14, 2008. The Conservative party had not brought up the issue before Canadian voters during the election campaign, but on November 27 - only days into its new mandate that began November 18 - the Conservative government attempted to eliminate the per-vote subsidy through a provision tucked within a fiscal update - and designated the update as a confidence motion that would trigger the fall of the government, and the prospect of another election, unless passed.\n\nThe Conservative government's move was seen by opposition members and other observers as a partisan attempt to bankrupt the other political parties and further increase his own party's financial advantage, and as a direct attack on the democratic process.\n\nThe move and its packaging as a confidence motion prompted the Liberals and the NDP to take steps toward forming a coalition government in the event the confidence motion was defeated. Suddenly faced with losing power, Harper sought the prorogation of Canada's Parliament.\n\nCanada's Parliament was shut down from December 4, 2008, to January 26, 2009, allowing the Conservative government to avoid the confidence vote that it would have lost, and it backtracked on its attempt to eliminate the subsidy.\n\nIn January 2011, however, the Conservative government again brought back its aim to eliminate the per-vote subsidy, over the opposition of all the other major parties, while continuing to favour the generous public subsidy of political contributions. Prime Minister Harper stated: \"There are already generous credits and incentives in the tax system to encourage people to give to political parties today.\" He vowed that he would make the elimination of the per-vote subsidy a campaign pledge in the next federal election.\n\nGreen Party Leader Elizabeth May spoke against the attempt to eliminate the per-vote subsidy, saying that doing so would once again concentrate influence in the hands of those with deeper pockets, instead of giving voters a voice, and she stated her belief that the 2004 campaign finance reforms that introduced the per-vote subsidy are the \"one area we've gotten really right\" compared with the United States. Liberal deputy leader Ralph Goodale stated: \"Mr. Harper’s position is, essentially, let the big and the wealthy and the most privileged run the show and all the other voices should simply be silenced.\"\n\nIn spite of the clear opposition by the other parties, in a campaign pledge in April 2011, Stephen Harper vowed to unilaterally eliminate the per-vote subsidy if he wins a majority. He stated: \"Canadian political parties already have enormous tax advantages, there are credits when you donate to political parties, there are rebates when political parties do spending.\"\n\nBloc Québécois leader Gilles Duceppe accused Harper of seeking to cripple all other parties, stating: \"Its runs against democracy. Parties trying to break through, like the Greens, would have practically no means. That guy would be happy with no opposition and no Parliament.\"\n\nOther observers - including Canada's former Chief Electoral Officer Jean-Pierre Kingsley - have suggested that the subsidy of political contributions and subsidy of election expenses should also be examined, since both - to a far greater extent - have the effect of forcing taxpayers to fund parties they do not personally support.\n\nIn 2009, a national total of 181,858 individuals (out of 23,677,639 registered voters in 2008) made political contributions to a federal political party organization, resulting in a 0.77% fraction of registered voters directing over $33 million in subsidized contributions - almost two-thirds of it publicly funded - toward their preferred parties. Over 55% of these individuals were Conservative party supporters.\n\nA national total of 96,762 individuals also made political contributions at the riding association level to a federal political party, resulting in a 0.4% fraction of registered voters directing over $12 million in subsidized contributions - over 60% of it from public funds - toward their preferred parties.\n\nCombined, the number of unique individuals that made political contributions in 2009 to a federal political party, either at the national party organization level or riding level, or both, is somewhere between 196,186 and 278,620 individuals - representing between just 0.8% and 1.2% of the number of registered voters from 2008.\n\nRounding to the nearest percentage, only 1% of registered voters directed $46 million - representing over 62% of the primary funding received by parties - toward their preferred party, with nearly two-thirds of that - $28.5-$31 million - in public funds directed without the consent of 99% of registered voters.\n\"(Source: Elections Canada)\"\n\nWith the per-vote subsidy, 100% of voters of eligible parties (99% of all valid votes in 2009) participate in determining the distribution of the funds, and do so all on an equal basis. The participants are all the Canadian citizens over the age of 18 that voted in the preceding federal election, and numbered 13,675,146 Canadians in 2009.\n\nWith political contributions, the participants - numbering only a nationwide total of between 196,186 and 278,620 unique individuals in 2009, and representing less than 1.2% of the number of registered voters - tend to be individuals that have more disposable income. The poor, by and large, do not make political contributions, and, according to University of Calgary political finance expert Lisa Young, people that have more comfortable means, and that can expect to obtain a larger tax credit against their income, are more likely to make political contributions.\n\nAccording to McMaster University political scientist Henry Jacek, political contributions tend to come from the wealthy, and not the poor. It is also clear from other jurisdictions in the world that political donors typically are people that have more disposable income.\n\nWhile political contributions can only be made by Canadian citizens, there is no age restriction in place, which allows political contributions to be made in the name of children to bypass contribution limits.\n\nIn 2006, Liberal leadership candidate Joe Volpe returned $27,000 in political contributions that had been made in the name of children - after it was revealed that his campaign donors included 11-year-old twin boys and a 14-year-old boy who donated $5,400 each, the allowed maximum. The children and several other donors that had contributed the maximum allowable $5,400 each - for a total of $108,000 - were all in some way connected to the top corporate executives of one pharmaceutical company. No law was broken.\n\nWhile only a tiny fraction of registered voters make political contributions, their net contributions get magnified several times over by the public subsidy of political contributions and the public subsidy of election expenses.\n\nOver half of all the public funding for federal parties in 2009 was effectively directed by less than 1.2% of the number of registered voters in Canada, without participation by 99% of registered voters.\n\nOverall, the subsidy of political contributions resulted in 64.2% of all of the funding in 2009 being directed according to the partisan preferences of less than 1.2% of registered voters.\n\nElimination of the per-vote subsidy, with all other things remaining equal, would mean that a very small number of individuals - somewhere between 0.8% and 1.2% of registered voters in 2009 - would control and direct 100% of all the funding to their preferred political parties and candidates.\n\nBy the same token, approximately 98-99% of all registered voters would no longer have any participation in how any of the funding is directed - including having no say at all in how any of the taxpayer money involved gets allocated.\n\nIn April 2011, Canada's former Chief Electoral Officer Jean-Pierre Kingsley, who served in the position for 17 years, stated that if the per-vote subsidy were to be eliminated, there would be an increased risk of Canada's political parties turning back toward corporations to obtain money, also to the detriment of Canadian democracy.\n\nThe elimination of the per-vote subsidy could also have the effect of further reducing an already low voter turnout by removing an incentive that encourages many Canadian citizens to vote. Under the first-past-the-post system, the per-vote subsidy ensures that a voter's participation at the ballot box will at least still make a difference even if their preferred riding candidate has very little chance of winning or is assured of a win.\n\nOn May 25, 2011, just three weeks after the election that gave them majority power, the Conservatives announced that their June 6 federal budget would include the elimination of the per-vote subsidy.\n\nNDP leader Jack Layton voiced his opposition to the plan, saying that \"it's wrong\", and \"opens the door for big money to come back into politics,\" and he worried about the impact this will have on democracy in Canada.\n\nThe Conservative government's move was seen by many as motivated by a desire to destroy the Liberal party and cripple all other parties, not by concern over taxpayer dollars. According to University of Ottawa professor Errol Mendes: \"You can see what's happening here, they're moving toward a process of eventually cutting the feet out from all the major opposition parties.\"\n\nInterim Liberal leader Bob Rae stated: \"I can’t think of anything more wrong than a spirit of vindictiveness at the heart of a majority government.\" He said the Liberals would oppose the plan, and stated: \"The notion that there’s public support for the political process and political parties is widely accepted in a great many democratic countries around the world.\"\n\nAccording to political scientist Ned Franks of Queen's University, the elimination of the per-vote subsidy will mean that political parties with a rich support base will now be far better off than parties whose supporters are poorer or who are not the type to make political donations. He stated that the move greatly favours the Conservative party: \"There's only one party who benefits, and — surprise, surprise — it's the Conservatives.\"\n\nLayton stated the move was anti-democratic since it would benefit parties with access to rich people, and handicap parties with a lower-income voting base. \"I think that our democracy is better served if ideas have equal opportunity in the competition for Canadians' consideration, and that's what public financing is designed to do. Take away public financing and what you're basically saying is those with the best ability to raise money get to have their ideas heard, and I don't think that's helpful for a democratic society.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3405565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405565", "title": "Form-based code", "text": "Form-based code\n\nA Form-Based Code (FBC) is a means of regulating land development to achieve a specific urban form. Form-Based Codes foster predictable built results and a high-quality public realm by using physical form (rather than separation of uses) as the organizing principle, with a lesser focus on land use, through municipal regulations. A FBC is a regulation, not a mere guideline, adopted into city, town, or county law and offers a powerful alternative to conventional zoning regulation.\n\nForm-Based Codes are a new response to the modern challenges of urban sprawl, deterioration of historic neighborhoods, and neglect of pedestrian safety in new development. Tradition has declined as a guide to development patterns, and the widespread adoption by cities of single-use zoning regulations has discouraged compact, walkable urbanism. Form-Based Codes are a tool to address these deficiencies, and to provide local governments the regulatory means to achieve development objectives with greater certainty.\n\nForm-Based Codes address the relationship between building facades and the public realm, the form and mass of buildings in relation to one another, and the scale and types of streets and blocks. The regulations and standards in Form-Based Codes, presented in both diagrams and words, are keyed to a regulating plan that designates the appropriate form and scale (and therefore, character) of development rather than only distinctions in land-use types. This is in contrast to conventional zoning's focus on the micromanagement and segregation of land uses, and the control of development intensity through abstract and uncoordinated parameters (e.g., floor area ratios, dwelling units per acre, setbacks, parking ratios) to the neglect of an integrated built form. Not to be confused with design guidelines or general statements of policy, form-based codes are regulatory, not advisory.\n\nForm-Based Codes are drafted to achieve a community vision based on time-tested forms of urbanism. Ultimately, a Form-Based Code is a tool; the quality of development outcomes is dependent on the quality and objectives of the community plan that a code implements.\n\nForm-Based Codes are part of a long history of shaping the built landscape. Such efforts go back to the urban designs of Hippodamus of Miletus, the planning of cities in ancient China, and Roman town planning. The Laws of the Indies, promulgated by the Spanish Crown starting in the 16th century, established some basic urban form requirements for colonial towns in the Americas. William Penn when planning Philadelphia in the 17th century did not shy from precise urban form requirements when he said, \"Let every house be in a line, or upon a line, as much as may be.\" \n\nDuring the 18th century, Baroque urban design commonly brought buildings to the fronts of their lots with common facade treatments. Baron Haussmann, appointed by Napoleon III to oversee the redevelopment of Paris in the 19th century, stipulated precise ratios of building heights to street widths; disposition and sizes of windows and doors on building facades; consistent planting of street trees; and standardization of material colors to bring unity and harmony to the public environment.\n\nRegulating urban form is a challenge in modern democracies. Design guidelines adopted by municipalities, without legal enforceability, often invite capricious observance, thus failing to produce the comprehensive changes required to produce satisfying public places. When public planning exercises fail to produce predictable results, citizens often rebel against any development. In addition, from early in the twentieth century to the present, attempts at regulating the built landscape have usually been done for reasons that neglect community form, that are more concerned with the uses of property and impacts of scale than the form that development takes. And a planning profession that in recent decades has focused on policy, neglecting design, encouraged an abstract intellectual response to problems that are largely physical in nature. \n\nThe development of modern Form-Based Codes was started by architects, urban designers, and physical planners frustrated by the ineffectiveness of past criticisms of sprawl development and the failure of critics to propose realistic alternatives. These professionals, used to thinking physically about community problems, began the search for systematic physical solutions in the 1970s. Architect Christopher Alexander published \"A Pattern Language\" in 1977, a compendium of physical rules for designing humane buildings and places. Ian McHarg developed systematic mapping tools to encourage deliberate development patterns sensitive to local environmental conditions. Traditional Neighborhood Development ordinances were drafted beginning in the early 1990s as sets of development regulations to promote traditional neighborhood forms in new development projects. TND ordinances were typically adopted as an optional regulatory procedure that developers could request in place of conventional zoning . But their design regulations were not mapped to parcels or streets in advance, so lacked predictability of outcomes; TND ordinances proved to be an instructive effort, but showed few results.\n\nMeanwhile, the accelerating scale of worldwide urban growth and the rapid expansion of the extent of cities heightened the need for regulatory tools better equipped to deal with such growth. The first serious attempt at creating a modern form-based code was done in 1982 to guide the development of the Florida resort town of Seaside by the husband and wife design team of Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk. Realizing that designing an entire town would be an overwhelming task and would in the end lack the visual serendipity that only comes from myriad creative minds at work, they created a design code that established basic physical standards mapped to parcels, and then invited developers and architects to put their own distinctive stamp on their projects—but operating within those standards. The Seaside Code proved very successful; the resulting development of the town of Seaside is widely recognized as one of the most important and appealing planning efforts of the post-World War II era.\n\nDuany/Plater-Zyberk's codes and the work of subsequent form-based code practitioners are not top-down mandates from imperial designers as in the baroque era or the wishful thinking of design guidelines that lack enforceability, but are instead legal regulations adopted by units of local government. As regulations they possess police power; violators of the regulations can be cited, and their invocation or retraction must go through a legislative process. As such, the community plays a more forceful role in shaping its physical future.\n\nAlthough the Seaside code was commissioned by a private developer, most current codes are commissioned by counties and municipalities. Since Seaside, the scale of Form-Based Coding projects has grown. Form-Based Coding can be applied at many scales, from a two-block main street to a county-wide region. An early Form-Based Code was adopted for downtown West Palm Beach in 1995. A significant code for a major urban arterial, the Columbia Pike in Arlington County, Virginia, was adopted in 2003 (Ferrell Madden Associates). A regional FBC was adopted in 2006 by St. Lucie County, Florida (Spikowski Associates, Dover-Kohl Partners). Duany/Plater-Zyberk has drafted a model FBC that is also a transect-based code that can be calibrated for local needs—the SMARTCODE. Its first attempted customization was done for Vicksburg, Mississippi in 2001 (Mouzon & Greene). The lessons learned there led to the first California adoption of a citywide Form-Based Code for the City of Sonoma in March 2003 (Crawford Multari & Clark Associates, Moule & Polyzoides), followed on June 16, 2003, by the first SmartCode adopted in the U.S., for central Petaluma, California (Fisher and Hall Urban Design, Crawford Multari & Clark Associates). SmartCodes are now being calibrated for Miami, Florida and Hurricane Katrina ravaged communities in Mississippi and Louisiana, along with cities as diverse as Taos, NM, Michigan City, IN, Jamestown, RI, Lawrence, KS, New Castle, DE, and Bran, Romania. Planetary climate change that must be mitigated by changes in the human environment will no doubt be an inducement to form-based and transect-based coding in the future.\n\nThe Cincinnati Form-Based Code adopted in 2013 is designed to be applied citywide in an incremental way, neighborhood by neighborhood. The code establishes transect zones and specifies standards for transects, building types, frontage types, walkable neighborhoods, and thoroughfares that can be adapted to each neighborhood.\n\nBeaufort County, South Carolina adopted one of the first multijurisdictional Form-Based Codes at the end of 2014: In 2010, the County, the City of Beaufort and the City of Port Royal came together to hire Opticos Design, Inc. in Berkeley, California to draft the code.\n\nBecause of the growing number of consultants advertising themselves as capable of writing FBCs but with little or no training, in 2004 the non-profit Form-Based Codes Institute was organized to establish standards and teach best practices. In addition, SmartCode workshops are regularly scheduled by PlaceMakers.com, SmartCodePro.com, and SmartCodeLocal.com. In Spring 2014, a new graduate-level studio dedicated to Form-Based Coding was launched at California State Polytechnic University. “Form-Based Codes in the Context of Integrated Urbanism,” is one of the only full courses on the subject in the country. The course is taught by Tony Perez, Director of Form-Based Coding at Opticos Design; it is expected to be repeated for Spring 2015.\n\nForm-Based Codes commonly include the following elements:\n\nForm-based codes also sometimes include:\n\nThe types of buildings that make for a lively main street are different from the types of buildings that make for a quiet residential street. Building Form Standards are sets of enforceable design regulations for controlling building types and how they impact the public realm. These Standards are mapped to streets on a Regulating Plan. Building Form Standards can control such things as: the alignment of buildings to the street; how close buildings are to sidewalks; the visibility and accessibility of building entrances; minimum and maximum buildings heights; minimum or maximum lot frontage coverage; minimum and maximum amounts of window coverage on facades; physical elements required on buildings (e.g. stoops, porches, types of permitted balconies); and the general usage of floors (e.g. office, residential, or retail). These regulations are less concerned with architectural styles and designs than in how buildings shape public spaces. If a local government also wishes to regulate the quality of architecture—for example to preserve the historic appearance of a neighborhood—then Architectural Standards should be drafted in addition to Building Form Standards.\n\nPublic Space Standards control the physical form of squares, parks, the public right-of-way of streets, and other public spaces. Public spaces are typically under the control of public works, parks, and highway departments. Streets, being the most common public spaces in a community, are the most frequently regulated. Public Space Standards for streets are typically described with dimensioned cross-sections and/or plan views showing travel lane widths, sidewalk widths, street tree and street lamp placement, locations of transit lanes, and the placement of architecture. Plan view diagrams may also be included showing spacing of street trees and lamps, and the radii of the curves of street corners.\n\nHow does one determine if a development regulation is a form-based code and a well-crafted one? Form-based codes generally receive affirmative answers to all of the following questions:\n\n\nHow are form-based codes incorporated into a local government's development regulations? There are three basic ways:\n\nMandatory codes. This is the most common adoption approach. It has the most regulatory \"teeth\"—compliance is required. But it is the most ambitious of the approaches, making the new code a seamless part of, or a complete replacement for, the existing zoning ordinance. The form-based code can be adopted as a new zoning district or as an overlay district.\n\nUnique to California and a few other states with appropriate enabling legislation, form-based codes can be contained within a planning document called a \"specific plan,\" which can completely override the zoning ordinance for a given geographic area. Since it stands apart from the zoning ordinance, it can be more creative in its format, giving the coder greater freedom in designing for user-friendliness through page layout, diagrams, and illustrations. Also, the urban design plan and the implementing regulations are bundled together, greatly improving user comprehension. But since the specific plan is not securely integrated within the existing zoning ordinance, it may be more politically vulnerable to retraction.\n\nExample adopted codes:\n\nOptional (parallel) codes. An optional or parallel form-based code serves as an alternative to, but doesn't replace, a present zoning ordinance. Compliance is voluntary. The developer has the choice of complying with the form-based code or the zoning ordinance, but it must be one or the other. This approach makes sense when compliance with the zoning ordinance is so difficult and time consuming that most development is stymied. Thus a developer has the option of following a form-based code that will streamline and simplify his development process. But, for a local government to maintain two different sets of development regulations for one area is added work which can be significant if the area is extensive. Also depending on the area being regulated, if some developers are choosing the form-based code and others nearby are not, the possibilities for integrated place-making can be compromised.\n\nExample codes:\n\nFloating-zone codes. Floating zones are most often written to facilitate master-planned suburban communities and are called PUDs (planned unit developments). However, floating-zone codes are now being written as form-based codes to facilitate urban development. A floating-zone form-based code does not contain a regulating plan but includes instructions and standards for developers to follow when they prepare a regulating plan for their property (e.g. maximum block dimensions, street types, building types, open space accessibility, sidewalk widths.) This distinguishes floating-zone codes from the other two approaches–developers rather than the local government create the regulating plans and the urban designs that they facilitate, but the local government sets the standards. Floating-zone codes allow local governments to establish urban form standards for development without incurring the expense of developing urban design and regulating plans. Developers are given the freedom, within clear parameters, to prepare regulating plans for their property that are likely to meet government approval. A developer submits his or her regulating plan for approval through the rezoning process. Upon rezoning, the floating zone replaces the prior zoning for that property and the regulating plan becomes binding.\n\nExample codes:\n\nInitially a local government may wish to adopt a form-based code for its entire jurisdiction following one approach, but find this too ambitious with short-term resource and political limitations requiring a more focused effort. Instead it may wish to follow one approach for a smaller area, and then phase in other areas using the same or different approaches as needed. Or a floating-zone code could be adopted for large areas awaiting the public resources coming later that would allow the local government to draft its own regulating plans. Whatever approach is followed—or combination of approaches—simplicity and consistency helps at the permit desk where the code is implemented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2703291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703291", "title": "Global Change Research Act of 1990", "text": "Global Change Research Act of 1990\n\nThe Global Change Research Act 1990 is a United States law requiring research into global warming and related issues. It requires a report to Congress every four years on the environmental, economic, health and safety consequences of climate change.\n\nAccording to a summary by the Congressional Research Service, the Act:\n\nFollowing the publication of the first National Climate Assessment Report there were accusations that information was being suppressed, leading to complacency around public works, such as New Orleans flood defences. Greenpeace, the Center for Biological Diversity and Friends of the Earth challenged the delay in federal district court on August 21, 2007. A judge ruled that an updated national assessment must be produced by May 31, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19774773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19774773", "title": "History of the Green Party of England and Wales", "text": "History of the Green Party of England and Wales\n\nThe Green Party of England and Wales has its roots in the PEOPLE Party started in Coventry in 1972/3 by four professional friends (Michael Benfield, Freda Sanders, Tony and Lesley Whittaker). It then changed its name to the more descriptive Ecology Party in 1975, and to the Green Party ten years later. In the 1990s, the Scottish and Northern Ireland wings of the Green Party in the United Kingdom decided to separate amicably from the party in England and Wales, to form the Scottish Green Party and the Green Party in Northern Ireland. The Wales Green Party became an autonomous regional party and remained within the new Green Party of England and Wales.\n\nIn 1991 Green Party spokesman and TV sports presenter David Icke created considerable embarrassment for the Party when he revealed his extreme political and spiritual beliefs. He was subsequently forced to leave the party.\n\nInternal divisions over the direction of the party in the early 1990s meant that the Green Party fell out of the limelight and failed to maintain its electoral momentum. In 1991, attempts to streamline the Party Constitution were proposed by a group called \"Green 2000\", who wanted to \"modernise\" the Party and make it into an organised electoral force that could become the ruling party in the UK by the year 2000. After the Green 2000 Constitution was adopted, a new Executive came into force to oversee the day-to-day business of the party. Many Green 2000 members were elected to the new Executive in 1991 but, by 1992, only two remained, with the others resigning or being recalled and forced to quit. These internal constitutional wranglings, and negative public statements released by supporters of both Green 2000 and decentralists who ran the recall campaigns, seriously hampered preparations for the 1992 General Election, in which 253 Green candidates received 1.3% of the vote. Sara Parkin and Jonathon Porritt left active involvement with the party.\n\nThe early and mid-1990s were difficult for the Greens, because of Britain's first-past-the-post electoral system, the recession of 1992–93 and the squeeze caused by the rising popularity of New Labour. Nevertheless, the party gained a handful of local councillors in Stroud and Oxford.\n\nIn the 1992 General Election, Cynog Dafis was elected on a Plaid Cymru–Wales Green Party ticket, gaining Ceredigion and Pembroke North from the Liberal Democrats. The Green Party argued that this made him the first Green representative in the House of Commons. The electoral agreement that enabled this broke down by 1995.\n\nThe election of a Labour government in 1997 created opportunities and focus for the Green Party. New democratic institutions were created that offered electoral possibilities for the Greens, such as the London Assembly, the National Assembly for Wales and – for the independent Scottish Green Party – the Scottish Parliament, all of which use some form of proportional representation, allowing smaller parties the chance of gaining representation. Labour also changed European Parliamentary elections to a form of proportional representation.\n\nCombined with gradual council gains, the party quietly gained successes.\n\nIn the 1999 European elections, two Greens were elected Members of the European Parliament (MEPs): Caroline Lucas (South East England) and Jean Lambert (London). They retained their seats in the 2004 European elections, despite a reduction in number of seats available. Overall, the Party gained 1,033,093 votes in the 2004 European election.\n\nHowever the Greens did not manage to break through into other European electoral regions or the Welsh Assembly.\nThree Greens were elected to the first London Assembly.\n\nThe Green Party achieved its best ever UK General Election result to date in the 2005 General Election with a total of 281,780 votes, with Keith Taylor receiving 22% of the vote in Brighton Pavilion.\n\nThe Party had 116 local councillors after a gain of 5 councillors during the 2008 local elections. The Greens achieved significant representation on Brighton & Hove City Council, Lancaster City Council, Norwich, Lewisham, Oxford City Council, Oxfordshire County Council, Kirklees Council and Stroud District Council. The Green Party were the official opposition on Norwich City Council; they formed part of the ruling coalition that controlled Lancaster City Council alongside the Liberal Democrats and Labour, and shared control of Castle Morpeth Council as part of an all party administration.\n\nIn this period, the Green Party of England and Wales had representation in the House of Lords, the (unelected) upper chamber of Parliament: in the person of Lord Beaumont of Whitley, who died in 2008.\n\nAccording to MORI in 2010, Green issues were rated as importantly as during the Green Party's previous high point in the late 1980s.\n\nThe party held its first ever leadership election in September 2008: Caroline Lucas was elected to the position of Leader, and Adrian Ramsay to the position of Deputy Leader.\n\nThe Green Party fielded more than 300 candidates for the 2010 general election. Caroline Lucas became the first Green candidate to gain a seat in Westminster, after being elected MP for Brighton Pavilion by a margin of 1,252 votes. The following week 600 new members had joined the Green Party bringing total membership to over 11,000. In previous years 600 new members was high for a whole year.\n\nOn 24 May 2012, the six Green Party councillors elected to Stroud District Council formed a power sharing administration (a \"constructive cooperation\") with both the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn May 2014, Molly Scott Cato became the party's third MEP.\n"}
{"id": "50781692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50781692", "title": "Homonationalism", "text": "Homonationalism\n\nHomonationalism is the favorable association between a nationalist ideology and LGBT people or their rights.\n\nThe term was originally proposed by the researcher in gender studies Jasbir K. Puar in 2007 to refer to the processes by which some powers line up with the claims of the LGBTI community in order to justify heterophobia, racist and xenophobic positions, especially against Islam, basing them on prejudices that migrant people are supposedly homophobic and that Western society is entirely egalitarian. Thus, sexual diversity and LGBT rights are used to sustain political stances against immigration, being increasingly common among far-right parties.\n\nThe main critiques of this phenomenon focus on the partial and sectarian use of the LGBT movement to further ends based in intolerance, ignoring the homophobia and lack of real equality in Western society as a whole. This idea of equality is usually symbolically represented by the access to equal marriage, heteronormalizing the relations between the people of the LGBTI community and favouring chauvinistic positions towards the Western country and suspicions towards people coming from those countries that have not legalized any kind of recognition of same-gender couples or that still criminalize homosexuality, often associating those stances with Muslims. Since developing the concept, Puar has more recently argued that the concept should not be used as an accusation or an identity, but that it is instead a transnational process that represents a historical shift.\n\nBruno Perreau has criticized the premises of Puar's argument. While agreeing with her critique of nationalist claims among some LGBT groups, he shows that Puar idealizes those she calls the \"sexually nonnormative racialized subject\". Perreau explains that \"deconstruction of norms cannot be dissociated from their reproduction\". Jason Ritchie has also critiqued some of the ways homonationalism has been used, especially as a totalizing theory.\n\nIn the essay \"Thinking Sex\" by Gayle S. Rubin, the author lays the work to understand homosexuality as possessing the same features and characteristics as those of an ethnic group. This claim laid the groundworks to the construction of what today is understood as queer nationalism. One of the main presmises of the essay is that homosexuals in Western societies share a common history, a culture, and a territory that they’ve had to defend against the hostilities and persecution of the heterosexual majority. She claims that: “… a modern gay man, who may migrate from rural Colorado to San Francisco in order to live in a gay neighborhood, work in a gay business, and participate in an elaborate experience that includes a self-conscious identity, group solidarity, a literature, a press, and a high level of political activity. In modern, Western, industrial societies, homosexuality has acquired much of the institutional structure of an ethnic group.” Displacement and diaspora according to Rubin are the main ways in which a gay ethnicity can be identified in modern urban industrialized settings.\n\nRubin identifies as sexual migrants all those individuals who had the need to move across the country in order to flee persecution from police, education institutions, or even family, “In San Francisco, police and media waged war on homosexuals throughout the 1950s. Police raided bars, patrolled cruising areas, conducted street sweeps, and trumpeted their intention of driving the queers out of San Francisco. Crackdowns against ay individuals, bars, and socials areas occurred throughout the country.” and then provides an analysis that would help understand how homosexuals could be seen upon the light of a stateless, diasporic people. “By the late 1970s, sexual migration was occurring on a scale so significant that it began to have a recognizable impact on urban politics in the United States, with San Francisco being the most notable and notorious example.”\n\nRubin explains that homosexuals have therefore needed to stand against the hostilities directed from the hegemonic majoritarian group of heterosexuals in Western societies, who she claims have been intolerant of sexual deviance due to an excessive weight put on sex and sexuality in their scale of values. Gay men had to organize in order to defend their territory and their institutions against the invasion, intrusion, and occupation inflicted by heterosexual institutions. “Like gay men, prostitutes occupy well-demarcated urban territories and battle with police to defend and maintain those territories. The legal persecution of both populations is justified by an elaborate ideology which classifies them as dangerous and inferior undesirables who are not entitled to be left in peace.” These claims by Gayle S. Rubin strengthen the idea that the gay nation may be similar to the Hebrew diaspora before the foundation of the State of Israel, or as every indigenous nation in North and Latin America, struggling to survive and achieve self-determination within the limits and boundaries imposed by the hegemonic state apparatuses of the societies they live in. While the awareness and pride in belonging to this “gay nation” may be understood as an instance of queer nationalism, this may become problematic as it may easily fall under the category of homonationalism instead.\n\nAt the mass shooting at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, FL in 2016, the perpetrator was Omar Mateen who in a 9-1-1 phone call swore allegiance to the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and said the U.S. killing of Abu Waheeb in Iraq the previous month \"triggered\" the shooting. Pulse was hosting a \"Latin Night,\" and thus, most of the victims were Hispanic. It is the deadliest incident of violence against LGBT people in U.S. history and the deadliest terrorist attack in the U.S. since the September 11 attacks in 2001. At the time, it was the deadliest mass shooting by a single shooter in the U.S., being surpassed by the Las Vegas shooting a year later.\n\nIn \"Terrorist Assemblages\", Jasbir Puar sustains that “sexual deviance is linked to the process of discerning, othering, and quarantining terrorist bodies, but these racially and sexually perverse figures also labor in the service of disciplining and normalizing subjects worthy of rehabilitation away from these bodies, in other words, signaling and enforcing the mandatory terms of patriotism.” Puar claims that the binary reinforced by the othering involved in the War on Terror together with the othering of LGBT bodies “has rehabilitated some—clearly not all or most—lesbians, gays, and queers to U.S. national citizenship within a spatial-temporal domain I am invoking as “homonationalism,” short for “homonormative nationalism.” \n\nIn the wake of the Orlando shooting of the Pulse Nightclub in 2016, the outcome and the responses by U.S. officials and politicians demonstrated Puar’s claim of the use of LGBT bodies towards the demonization of “others” designated as terrorists. Puar states that de alignment with the nationalist discourses against terrorist groups and countries serves de purpose of strengthening the American nationalist projects across the political spectrum: “I argue that the Orientalist invocation of the terrorist is one discursive tactic that disaggregates U.S. national gays and queers from racial and sexual others, foregrounding a collusion between homosexuality and American nationalism that is generated both by national rhetorics of patriotic inclusion and by gay and queer subjects themselves: homonationalism. For contemporary forms of U.S. nationalism and patriotism, the production of gay and queer bodies is crucial to the deployment of nationalism, insofar as these perverse bodies reiterate heterosexuality as the norm but also because certain domesticated homosexual bodies provide ammunition to reinforce nationalist projects.”\n\nGaetano Venezia III argues that the Pulse shooting in Orlando, Florida in 2016 provides a prime example of homonationalist narratives at work. Several reports emerging after the shooting declared this the Most reports on the Pulse shooting have described it as the largest mass shooting in US history. “However, the state sanctioned massacre of American Indians at Sand Creek in 1864, Clear Lake in 1850, and Wounded Knee in 1890 all had more victims. Furthermore, critiques of this misleading attribution have noted that “death tolls…were much higher in other shootings more than a century ago, including race riots and labor disputes in the early 1900s and massacres perpetrated by the U.S. Army or settlers in the American West.” Thus, describing the Pulse shooting as the worst mass shooting obscures state violence, protects the image of the state, and minimizes or erases the oppression of indigenous people and racial minorities.” In this way, the Pulse shooting served the purpose of both othering the shooter as a terrorist and at the same time softening the involvement of the state’s nation building project in the extermination of native populations.\n\nGaetano Venezia III addresses the responses by American politicians after the shooting. Venezia argues that the responses to the Pulse shooting strengthen and protect not only the image of the state but its officials. “Police and politicians often get good press by expressing their sympathy and solidarity with the LGBTQ+ community, even as they remain unapologetic and unresponsive in regards to oppressive policies and actions, like the Stonewall riots, abuse of trans folk, and restrictions on LGBTQ+ rights and protections. The discrepancy between rhetoric and actual treatment reveals the hypocrisy of their “support” for the LGBTQ+ community. This hypocrisy often strengthens their public image, making it even more difficult to gain allies, counter injustice, and secure equal rights and protections.”\n\nThe responses of the presidential frontrunners in the U.S. 2016 election are evidence of the homonationalist sentiment that emerged after the shooting. The Republican and the Democrat leading candidates both responded a few days after the tragedy by delivering speeches addressing national security. \n\nDonald Trump and other Republicans embraced this sentiment in their response to the shooting to argue that they were supporters of LGBT rights because of their support for immigration restrictions aimed at Muslims. This is what he said on his speech of June 13, 2016: “This is a very dark moment in America’s history. A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientation.” “We want to live in a country where gay and lesbian Americans and all Americans are safe from radical Islam, which, by the way, wants to murder and has murdered gays and they enslave women.” \n\nAt the Republican National Convention, candidate Trump used the Orlando tragedy in his nomination acceptance speech in order to justify his antimuslim platform. “Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted the LGBTQ community. No good. And we’re going to stop it. As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology.”\n\nOn the other hand, leading candidate Hillary Clinton pledged to fight the terrorist virus in its origins, and therefore justified her party’s platform of military intervention in the Middle East. She othered these Muslim majority countries by describing heinous acts directed against the LGBTQ population: “The Orlando terrorist may be dead, but the virus that poisoned his mind remains very much alive. And we must attack it with clear eyes, steady hands, unwavering determination and pride in our country and our values. […] we know already the barbarity that we face from radical jihadists is profound. In the Middle East, ISIS is attempting a genocide of religious and ethnic minorities. They are slaughtering Muslims who refuse to accept their medieval ways. They are beheading civilians, including executing LGBT people. They are murdering Americans and Europeans, enslaving, torturing and raping women and girls. […] The terrorist in Orlando targeted LGBT Americans out of hatred and bigotry. And an attack on any American is an attack on all Americans.\" \n\nThe promise of both candidates made to the American LGBT communities was that they would work to favor their rights while at the same time advance their respective parties’ political agendas regarding Jihadi terrorism. While Clinton promised to terminate the virus of Islamic terrorism by attacking its origins, this would only mean that as an elected official she would be furthering the U.S. neoliberal foreign policy of intervention in the Middle East and the military invasion of foreign countries, Syria to be specific, justified by the War on Terror. Trump’s pledge in the light of the Orlando shooting was to argue that they were true pro-LGBTQ advocates because of their support for immigration restrictions aimed towards Muslims embodied by the Travel Ban. In their respective speeches, the bodies of the fallen queer people in the Pulse tragedy had been used by both presidential candidates as ammunition to strengthen the sense of urgency for their own political national projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "630570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630570", "title": "Influence peddling", "text": "Influence peddling\n\nInfluence peddling is the illegal practice of using one's influence in government or connections with persons in authority to obtain favours or preferential treatment for another, usually in return for payment. Also called traffic of influence or trading in influence. In fact, influence peddling is not necessarily illegal as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has often used the term \"undue influence peddling\" to refer to illegal acts of lobbying. However, influence peddling bears the stench of corruption that may de-legitimise democratic politics with the general public.\n\nThis crime is punished in France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Brazil, Argentina, Italy, Great Britain and Romania.\n\nP.Semeraro, Trading in influence and Lobbying in the Spanish criminal Code pag. 297.\n\n"}
{"id": "209328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209328", "title": "J. Hector St. John de Crèvecœur", "text": "J. Hector St. John de Crèvecœur\n\nMichel Guillaume Jean de Crèvecœur (; December 31, 1735 – November 12, 1813), naturalized in New York as John Hector St. John, was a French-American writer. He was born in Caen, Normandy, France, to the Comte and Comtesse de Crèvecœur (Count and Countess of Crèvecœur).\n\nHe was born December 31, 1735, to a family of minor nobility in Normandy, France. In 1755 he migrated to New France in North America. There, he served in the French and Indian War as a cartographer in the French Colonial Militia, rising to the rank of lieutenant. Following the British defeat of the French Army in 1759, he moved to the Province of New York, where he took out citizenship, adopted the English-American name of John Hector St. John, and in 1770 married an American woman, Mehitable Tippet, the daughter of a New York merchant. He bought a sizable farm in Orange County, New York, called \"Pine Hill\", where he prospered as a farmer. He also traveled about working as a surveyor. He started writing about life in the American colonies and the emergence of an American society.\n\nIn 1779, during the American Revolution, St. John tried to leave the country to return to France because of the faltering health of his father. Accompanied by his son, he crossed British-American lines to enter British-occupied New York City, where he was imprisoned as an American spy for three months without a hearing. Eventually, he was able to sail for Britain, and was shipwrecked off the coast of Ireland. From Britain, he sailed to France, where he was briefly reunited with his father. After spending some time recuperating at the family estate, he visited Paris and the salon of Sophie d'Houdetot.\n\nIn 1782, in London, he published a volume of narrative essays entitled the \"Letters from an American Farmer\". The book quickly became the first literary success by an American author in Europe and turned Crèvecœur into a celebrated figure. He was the first writer to describe to Europeans – employing many American English terms – the life on the American frontier and to explore the concept of the American Dream, portraying American society as characterized by the principles of equal opportunity and self-determination. His work provided useful information and understanding of the \"New World\" that helped to create an American identity in the minds of Europeans by describing an entire country rather than another regional colony. The writing celebrated American ingenuity and the uncomplicated lifestyle. It described the acceptance of religious diversity in a society being created from a variety of ethnic and cultural backgrounds. His application of the Latin maxim \"Ubi panis ibi patria\" (Where there is bread, there is my country) to early American settlers also shows an interesting insight. He once praised the middle colonies for \"fair cities, substantial villages, extensive fields...decent houses, good roads, orchards, meadows, and bridges, where an hundred years ago all was wild, woody, and uncultivated.\"\n\nThe success of his book in France had led to his being taken up by an influential circle, and he was appointed the French consul for New York, including the areas of New Jersey and Connecticut. Crèvecœur returned to New York City as the newly appointed French consul in November 1783. Anxious to be reunited with his family, he learned that his farm had been destroyed in an Indian raid, his wife was dead, and his two younger children missing. He stayed in the house of his friend William Seton, who, as the last royal public notary for the city and province of New York, had helped to secure his release in 1780 from the British prison in the city. Principal of the import-export mercantile firm the William Seton Company, Seton helped Crevecoeur locate his children, who were safe and living with a family in Boston. The following spring, he was able to reunite with his children. For most of the 1780s, Crèvecœur lived in New York City.\n\nAt that time, New York City was the national capital and most of the resident Catholics were connected to the diplomatic corps. Initially they met for services at the home of the Spanish consul. Their numbers increased with seafaring people, merchants, emigrants from the Spanish West Indies, and a few Acadians. They then rented space at Vauxhall Gardens, a garden and entertainment venue located along the North River on Greenwich Street between Warren and Chambers Streets. In 1785 Portuguse consul Jose Roiz Silva, Spanish consul Tomas Stoughton and others sought to rent the vacant Exchange building and deemed Crevecoeur the best one to make the approach.\n\nAlthough Crevecoeur was relatively indifferent to religion, he was sympathetic to the idea of liberty of conscience, and a friend of Lafayette. When the proposal was rejected, Crevecoeur was insulted and became very active in working for the establishment of the first Catholic church in the city. He later served as president of the first Board of Trustees of St. Peter's Church on Barclay Street.\n\nIn 1784, he published a two-volume version of his \"Letters from an American Farmer\", enlarged and completely rewritten in French. A three-volume version followed in 1787. Both his English and his French books were translated into several other European languages and widely disseminated throughout Europe. For many years, Crèvecœur was identified by European readers with his fictional narrator, James, the 'American farmer', and held in high esteem by readers and fellow-writers across Europe.\n\nBy the time he published another three-volume work in 1801, entitled \"Voyage dans la Haute-Pensylvanie et dans l'état de New-York\", however, his fame had faded and the damages of the French Revolution and its aftermath had made people less interested in the United States. His book was ignored. An abbreviated German translation appeared the following year. An English translation was not published until 1964. Much of de Crevecoeur's best work has been published posthumously, most recently as \"More Letters from the American Farmer: An edition of the Essays in English Left Unpublished by Crèvecœur\", edited by Dennis D. Moore (Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press, 1995).\n\nParticularly concerned about the condition of slaves, he joined the \"Société des Amis des Noirs\" (Society of the Friends of the Blacks), founded in Paris.\n\nIn 1789, during a stay in France, he was trapped by the political upheaval that was quickly turning into the French Revolution. At risk as an aristocrat, he went into hiding, while secretly trying to gain passage to the United States. The necessary papers were finally delivered to him by the new American ambassador to France, James Monroe. At the end of his life Crèvecœur returned to France and settled permanently on land he inherited from his father. On November 12, 1813, he died in Sarcelles, Val d'Oise, France.\n\nThe town of St. Johnsbury, Vermont, is named after him, as suggested by Ethan Allen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16438", "title": "JANET", "text": "JANET\n\nJanet is a high-speed network for the UK research and education community provided by Jisc, a not-for-profit company set up to provide computing support for education. It serves 18 millions users and is the busiest National Research and Education Network in Europe by volume of data carried. JANET was previously a private, UK government-funded organisation, which provided the Janet computer network and related collaborative services to UK research and education.\n\nAll further- and higher-education organisations in the UK are connected to the Janet network, as are all the Research Councils; the majority of these sites are connected via 20 metropolitan area networks across the UK (though Janet refers to these as regions, emphasising that Janet connections are not just confined to a metropolitan area). The network also carries traffic between schools within the UK, although many of the schools' networks maintain their own general Internet connectivity. The name was originally a contraction of Joint Academic NETwork but it is now known as Janet in its own right.\n\nThe network is linked to other European and worldwide NRENs through GEANT and peers extensively with other ISPs at Internet Exchange Points in the UK. Any other networks are reached via transit services from commercial ISPs using Janet's Peering Policy. \n\nThe Janet network is operated by Jisc Services Limited, part of Jisc. Janet is also responsible for the .ac.uk and .gov.uk domains. On 1 December 2012, Janet and Jisc Collections joined together to form Jisc Collections and Janet Limited, as subsidiary organisations to Jisc. In March 2015, Jisc Collections and Janet Limited was renamed to Jisc Services Limited. Jisc Services continues to operate under the brand name of Janet, with the same remit. Janet was previously known as the JNT Association, and prior to that, UKERNA (the United Kingdom Education and Research Networking Association).\n\nJanet developed out of a number of local and research networks dating back to the 1970s. By 1980, a number of national computer facilities serving the Science and Engineering Research Council community had developed, each with their own star network (ULCC London, UMRCC Manchester, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory). There were also regional networks centred on Bristol, Edinburgh and Newcastle, where groups of institutions had pooled resources to provide better computing facilities than could be afforded individually. These networks were each based on one manufacturer's standards and were mutually incompatible and overlapping. In the early 1980s a standardisation and interconnection effort started, hosted on an expansion of the SERCnet X.25 research network. The system first went live on 1 April 1984, hosting about 50 sites with line speeds of 9.6 kbit/s. In the mid-80s the backbone was upgraded to a 2 Mbit/s backbone with 64 kbit/s access links, and a further upgrade in the early 1990s sped the backbone to 8 Mbit/s and the access links to 2 Mbit/s, making Janet the fastest X.25 network in the world.\n\nThe Janet effort resulted in the standardisation known as the Coloured Book protocols, which provided the first complete X.25 standard. The naming scheme used on Janet (JANET NRS) had similarities to the Internet's Domain Name System, but with domains specified in big-endian format rather than the little-endian style used by DNS. There had been some talk of moving Janet to OSI protocols in the 1990s, but changes in the networking world meant this never happened.\n\nIn January 1991 the JANET IP Service (JIPS) was set up as a pilot project to host IP traffic on the existing network. Within ten months the IP traffic had exceeded the levels of X.25 traffic, and the IP support became official in November. Today Janet is primarily a high-speed IP network.\n\nIn order to address speed concerns, several hardware upgrades have been incorporated into the Janet system. In 1989 SuperJanet was proposed, to re-host JANET on a fibre optic network. Work started in late 1992, and by late 1993 the first 14 sites had migrated to the new 34 Mbit/s ATM system. SuperJanet also moved solely to IP.\n\nIn 1995 SuperJanet2 started, adding 155 Mbit/s ATM backbones and a 10 Mbit/s SMDS network encompassing some of the original JANET nodes. JANET's mandate now included running metropolitan area networks centred on these sites.\n\nSuperJanet3 created new 155 Mbit/s ATM nodes to fully connect all of the major sites at London, Bristol, Manchester and Leeds, with 34 Mbit/s links to smaller sites around the country.\n\nIn March 2001 SuperJanet4 was launched. The key challenges for SuperJanet4 were the need to increase network capacity and to strengthen the design and management of the JANET network to allow it to meet a similar increase in the size of its userbase.\n\nSuperJanet4 saw the implementation of a 2.5 Gbit/s core backbone from which connections to regional network points of presence were made at speeds ranging between 155 Mbit/s to 2.5 Gbit/s depending upon the size of the regional network. In 2002 the core SuperJanet4 backbone was upgraded to 10 Gbit/s.\n\nSuperJanet4 also saw an increase in the userbase of the JANET network, with the inclusion of the Further Education Community and the use of the SuperJanet4 backbone to interconnect schools' networks. The core point of presence (Backbone) sites in SuperJanet4 were Edinburgh, Glasgow, Warrington, Reading, Bristol, Portsmouth, London and Leeds.\n\nIn October 2006 the SuperJanet5 project was launched after £29 million of investment. It provides a 10Gbit/s backbone, with an upgrade path to 40Gbit/s over the next few years. The new backbone as a result of the SuperJanet5 project is a hybrid network offering, providing both a high speed IP transit service and private bandwidth channel services provisioned over a dedicated fibre network. It is designed not only to fully accommodate the requirements of the traditional JANET user base - all research institutes, universities and further education - but also to meet the needs of a new userbase in the UK's primary and secondary schools.\n\nIn April 2011 Verizon helped Janet upgrade 4 central locations to run at 100Gbit/s bringing it to a national research and education network performance parity with Internet2 (which upgraded its backbone to 100Gbit/s in October 2007). As of October 2011 they have over 18 million end-users.\n\nJanet6 started to go live in July 2013, and was officially launched at an event at the London Film Museum on the 26 November 2013. At launch, Janet6 had an initial capacity of 2Tbit/s.\n\nThe Janet network is implemented through 18 regions which connect universities, colleges and schools to the Janet network. Most regions are operated by Janet, although a few operate as independent entities working under contract.\n\nEach regional network covers a specific geographical area. As of 2014 the following regional networks are connected to Janet:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41674685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41674685", "title": "List of LGBT rights organizations in the United States", "text": "List of LGBT rights organizations in the United States\n\nThis is a list of LGBT rights organizations in the United States. It does not include LGBT organizations affiliated with political parties.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26333450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26333450", "title": "List of anarchist children's literature", "text": "List of anarchist children's literature\n\nThis is a list of anarchist literature for children, a subgenre of children's literature which encourages children to explore anarchist philosophy. Individual characters within non-anarchist aligned works may also be used to present anarchist philosophy within larger works of fiction. A list of such characters is also documented below.\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\nNon-anarchist books of similar theme\n\nCharacters\n"}
{"id": "30428822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30428822", "title": "List of capital cities by elevation", "text": "List of capital cities by elevation\n\nThis is a list of national capitals ordered by elevation. Higher elevations typically have social, economic, and architectural effects on cities, in particular colder temperatures in winter. Low elevation cities are often seaports or are close to the sea.\n\nThe first country on the main list, Bolivia, is a country with multiple capitals; La Paz is the seat of the government while Sucre is the constitutional capital. If La Paz is considered the national capital, then it is ranked number one on the list. However, if Sucre is specified, then Ecuador's capital, Quito, is the national capital at the highest elevation.\n\nThe second list below contains several states with limited recognition. Tibet , which is internationally recognized as a province-level autonomous region in southwest China, is first on the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "23652807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23652807", "title": "Marketing assistance loans", "text": "Marketing assistance loans\n\n\"Marketing assistance loans are nonrecourse loans made available to producers of loan commodities (wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley oats, upland and extra-long staple (ELS) cotton, rice, soybeans, other oilseeds, honey, wool, mohair, dry peas, lentils, and small chickpeas) under the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 101-171, Sec. 1201-1205). The new law largely continued the commodity loan programs as they were under previous law. Loan rate caps are specified in the law. Marketing loan repayment provisions apply when market prices drop below the loan rates. For farmers who forgo the use of marketing assistance loans, loan deficiency payment (LDP) rules apply (but not for ELS cotton).\"\n"}
{"id": "1769032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769032", "title": "Maximiliano Gómez", "text": "Maximiliano Gómez\n\nMaximiliano Gómez Horacio \"El Moreno\" (May 5, 1943 – May 23, 1971) was the leader of the Maoist Movimiento Popular Dominicano (MPD), a militant organization opposed to the Joaquín Balaguer government and to U.S. presence in the Dominican Republic. Commended by some, repudiated by others, the controversial figure of Maximiliano Gomez is part of the political heritage of the Dominican Republic. He oriented his limited efforts during a short period of time to battle Joaquin Balaguer's regime. Maximiliano Gomez was killed by poison by his lover-many claim that she did so by orders of Balaguer-and in turn she was found killed and dismembered, possibly by the same people who ordered her to poison Maximiliano Gomez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2809727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2809727", "title": "Megatons to Megawatts Program", "text": "Megatons to Megawatts Program\n\nThe Megatons to Megawatts Program, successfully completed in December 2013, is the popular name given to the program which is also called the United States-Russia Highly Enriched Uranium Purchase Agreement. The official name of the program is the \"Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America Concerning the Disposition of Highly-Enriched Uranium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons\", dated February 18, 1993. Under this Agreement, Russia agreed to supply the United States with low-enriched uranium (LEU) obtained from high-enriched uranium (HEU) found to be in excess of Russian defense purposes. The United States agreed to purchase the low-enriched uranium fuel.\n\nThe original proposal for this program was made by Thomas Neff, a physicist at MIT, in an October 24, 1991 Op-Ed in \"The New York Times\". On August 28, 1992, in Moscow, U.S. and Russian negotiators initialed the 20-year agreement and President George H. W. Bush announced the agreement on August 31, 1992. In 1993, the agreement was signed and initiated by President Clinton and the commercial implementing contract was then signed by both parties.\n\nUnder this Agreement, United States and Russia agreed to commercially implement a 20-year program to convert 500 metric tons of HEU (uranium 235 enriched to 90 percent) taken from Soviet era warheads, into LEU (less than 5 percent uranium 235). The terms of the agreement required that it be implemented on commercial terms without government funds. The agreement named the Department of Energy as the executive agent for the US side. The DOE appointed the newly privatized United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC) as the commercial agent, its executive program contractor. The Russian Federation designated Techsnabexport (TENEX), a commercial subsidiary of its Ministry for Atomic Energy (Minatom), as the agent to implement the program on commercial terms. On January 14, 1994, the commercial contract between USEC and TENEX (HEU-LEU Contract) was signed. The terms also required that the HEU be converted by dilution (downblending) to LEU in Russian nuclear facilities. USEC would then purchase the low-enriched fuel and transport it to its facilities in the US. The first shipment of LEU took place in May 1995.\n\nThe value of the process is in two components: the LEU Feed (feed component of natural uranium) and the work involved in the conversion process, measured as separative work units (SWU). Both have separate commercial values. Early disagreements on interpretations of the terms of the governmental and commercial agreements on this issue led to controversy and some delays. Although each shipment contains LEU, the commercial nature of the global uranium market defines the uranium and the enrichment components as separate commercial values and costs. The solution reached was for USEC to continue payments for the SWU component it purchased and also to transfer the equivalent of the LEU feed component to the Russian side. In March 1999, Minatom and the US Department of Energy signed the Agreement Concerning the Transfer of Source Material to the Russian Federation (the Transfer Agreement), and at the same time TENEX signed a Contract with a Group of Western Companies (Cameco, Canada; Cogema, France; Nukem, Germany/US) regarding the purchase of the LEU Feed. As years passed, numerous commercial contract terms were renegotiated and revised to accommodate mutual interests.\n\nThe Megatons to Megawatts program was initiated in 1993 and completed on schedule in December 2013. A total of 500 tonnes of Russian warhead grade HEU (equivalent to 20,008 nuclear warheads) were converted in Russia to nearly 15,000 tonnes tons of LEU (low enriched uranium) and sold to the US for use as fuel in American nuclear power plants. The program was the largest and most successful nuclear non-proliferation program to date. The first nuclear power plant to receive low-enriched fuel containing uranium under this program was the Cooper Nuclear Station in 1998. During the 20-year Megatons to Megawatts program, as much as 10 percent of the electricity produced in the United States was generated by fuel fabricated using LEU from Russian HEU.\n\nDuring this period, on a comparatively modest basis, the US government has also been converting some of its excess nuclear warhead HEU into power plant fuel. Efforts have also been undertaken to demonstrate the commercial feasibility of converting warhead plutonium into fuel to augment nuclear fuel for US power plants.\n\nNuclear industry sources forecasted high demand trends that would require finding other uranium supply sources after the completion of the Megatons to Megawatts agreement. In 2011, TENEX and USEC signed a long-term contract (Transitional Supply Agreement – TSA) for the provision of enrichment services to the United States that could see annual deliveries after 2015 reaching a level of around half the annual supply volume under the HEU Deal. No plans have been announced for new initiatives similar to the Megatons to Megawatts program.\n\n\n\"A Grand Uranium Bargain,\" Thomas L. Neff (Op-Ed), New York Times, October 24, 1991.\n\"From Soviet Warheads to U.S. Reactor Fuel,\" William J. Broad, September 6, 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "8742500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8742500", "title": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism (Turkey)", "text": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism (Turkey)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Tourism () is a government ministry of the Republic of Turkey, responsible for culture and tourism affairs in Turkey. Revolving fund management of the ministry is carried by DÖSİMM. On January 25, 2013, Ömer Çelik was appointed as minister following a cabinet change succeeding Ertuğrul Günay, who was in office since 2008.\n\nOne of the responsibilities of the ministry is the preservation of manuscripts, so they are available and accessible to researchers.\n\nIn promoting the country, the ministry often created promotional films for the country. In 2015, the ministry gained controversy after axing a scene from a $4 million-dollar promotional involving Julianne Moore due to her allegedly \"poor acting\". Ruhsar Demirel, of the Nationalist Movement Party, asked social affairs minister Ayşenur İslam: \"How reasonable do you find promoting Turkey with the body of such names and women? How do you find, as a woman, giving plenty of money to a Hollywood star to promote Turkey, as if it were the 19th century?\", and other politicians criticised her for a \"depressive persona\". In 2017, alongside Turkish Airlines and Turkish tourism companies, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism helped finance \"Non-Transferable\", a romantic comedy film produced by Brendan Bradley.\n\nIn June 2018, the Ministry has sent a directive to the head of the excavations team in Turkey notifying them that according to a new regulation, 51 percent of archeological excavation teams led by foreign crews should consist of Turkish nationals, the key posts in excavations such as archeologist, anthropologist, art historian, restaurateur, architect, and photographer, should be reserved for Turkish citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "18660548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660548", "title": "Ministry of Economic Affairs (Taiwan)", "text": "Ministry of Economic Affairs (Taiwan)\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA; ) is the ministry of the Republic of China (Taiwan) responsible for formulating policy and laws for industry and trade, foreign direct investment, energy, minerals, measurement standards, intellectual property, state-owned enterprises. The ministry is a cabinet level government agency of the Executive Yuan.\n\nThe executive agency promotes industrial and economic policies which allows economic activity and growth, increased employment and investments in sector which are critical to Taiwan's economy. Taiwan's main exports are electronics, computers, telecommunications equipment, industrial design services and creative industries/culture.\n\nMOEA was initially established in June 1931 as National Economic Council by the Executive Yuan. In December 1931, the council was merged with other organizations to create the Ministry of Basic Industries. In December 1937, the ministry was reorganized as the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The MOEA continued to function in Taiwan since 1949 after the Kuomintang was defeated on the mainland during the Chinese Civil War.\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Affairs is very important in the management of Taiwan's economy. It manages a number of statutory bodies and state owned enterprises.\n\nThe internal structure of the MOEA:\n\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for the entire Taiwanese economy. It has a number of statutory administrative agencies reporting under it. They are:\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Affairs have a number of state owned enterprises reporting to it. They are:\n\n\n† Died in office.\n\nThe MOEA building is accessible by walking distance West of Guting Station of the Taipei Metro on the Orange Line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3127517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127517", "title": "National Corporate Party", "text": "National Corporate Party\n\nThe National Corporate Party (, PNC) was a fascist political party in Ireland founded by General Eoin O'Duffy in June 1935 at a meeting of 500. It split from Fine Gael when O'Duffy was removed as leader of that party, which had been founded by the merger of O'Duffy's Blueshirts, formally known as the National Guard or Army Comrades Association, with Cumann na nGaedheal, and the National Centre Party.\n\nThe National Corporate Party wished to establish a corporate state in Ireland and was strongly anti-communist. Its military wing was the Greenshirts. The party raised funds through public dances. \n\nIt failed to gain much support however, with the majority of Fine Gael members remaining loyal to that party and O'Duffy only securing a handful of loyal supporters for his group.\n\nO'Duffy left Ireland in 1936 to become involved in the Spanish Civil War, a fact which led to further decline in the National Corporate Party. The party was defunct by 1937.\n"}
{"id": "3225648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3225648", "title": "National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation", "text": "National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation\n\nNational Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation is a ceremony that takes place at the White House every year shortly before Thanksgiving. The President of the United States is presented with a live domestic turkey by the National Turkey Federation, usually of the Broad Breasted White variety. The early years also included a joint presentation with the Poultry and Egg National Board. The ceremony dates back to the 1940s, with presidents occasionally sparing the bird presented to them; since 1989, during George H. W. Bush's first Thanksgiving as president, it has been an annual tradition for the president to \"pardon\" the turkey.\n\n On various occasions, turkeys had been donated to the President as gifts from private citizens. Henry Vose, a Rhode Island turkey farmer, presented a turkey to the President each year from 1873 until his death in 1913.\n\nThe official presentation of a turkey to the President each year began in 1947 under President Harry Truman, and many sources erroneously attribute the origin of the turkey pardon to Truman. However, the Truman Library says that no documents, speeches, newspaper clippings, photographs or other contemporary records are known to exist that specify that he ever \"pardoned\" a turkey; But the first official turkey pardoning was with President George Bush. There are records that Truman publicly admitted to eating at least some of them. The presentation was partially borne out of a lobbying campaign: the Truman Administration, in an effort to conserve grain for foreign aid campaigns, began promoting \"Meatless Tuesdays\" and \"Poultryless Thursdays\" in the autumn of 1947. Not only did American citizens quickly grow frustrated with the (voluntary, but strongly encouraged) restrictions and begin disregarding them in short order, the National Poultry and Egg Board, incensed at the attack on their industry, noted that not only was Thanksgiving on a Thursday (thus making the annual Thanksgiving turkey a taboo), but Christmas and New Year's Day also landed on a Thursday that year. A truce was called in the dispute in early November, before the Thanksgiving holiday, but \"Eggless Thursdays\" continued to be promoted for the rest of the year, meaning that pumpkin pie, another Thanksgiving staple, was still on the forbidden foods list.\n\nThe Eisenhower Presidential Library says documents in their collection reveal that President Dwight Eisenhower ate the birds presented to him during his two terms. President John F. Kennedy spontaneously spared a turkey on November 18, 1963, just four days before his assassination. The bird was wearing a sign reading, \"Good Eating Mr. President\". Kennedy returned the massive turkey to the farm, saying \"we'll let this one grow.\" Scattered reports in \"The Washington Post\" and \"Los Angeles Times\" referred to it as a pardon, but Kennedy did not refer to it as such. Likewise, Richard Nixon also spared some of the turkeys given to him during his time as President. Jimmy Carter refused to take part in the presentation and rejected the turkeys given to him. First Lady Rosalyn Carter arranged to have the turkeys sent to petting zoos.\n\nThe first President on record issuing a \"pardon\" to his turkey was Ronald Reagan. Reagan had been sending the turkeys presented to him to farms and zoos since at least 1982, and 1987's turkey, Charlie, was likewise headed to a petting zoo. At the time, Reagan was facing questions over the Iran-Contra affair, on whether or not he would consider pardoning Oliver North (who had yet to be tried for his involvement in the affair); Reagan conjured the notion of the turkey pardon as a joke to deflect those questions. Reagan did not pardon a turkey in his final year as President in 1988, but his successor, George H. W. Bush, instituted the turkey pardon as a permanent part of the presentation beginning his first year in office, 1989.\n\nThe phrase \"presidential pardon\" in that ceremony was apparently inserted by a speechwriter; Bush initially was indifferent to the terminology, saying Reprieve', 'keep him going', or 'pardon': it's all the same for the turkey, as long as he doesn't end up on the president's holiday table.\" Since then, at least one of the turkeys presented to the President has been taken to a farm where it will live out the rest of its natural life. For many years the turkeys were sent to Frying Pan Farm Park in Fairfax County, Virginia. From 2005 to 2009, the pardoned turkeys were sent to either the Disneyland Resort in California or the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, where they served as the honorary grand marshals of Disney's Thanksgiving Day Parade. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, the turkeys were sent to live at Mount Vernon, the estate and home of George Washington; Mount Vernon stopped displaying and accepting the turkeys due to the fact that they violated the estate's policy of maintaining its own historical accuracy (Washington never farmed turkeys). The 2013, 2014 and 2015 turkeys were sent to Morven Park in Leesburg, Virginia, the estate of former Virginia governor (and prolific turkey farmer) Westmoreland Davis. Virginia Polytechnic Institute has housed the turkeys since 2016; Virginia Tech was chosen because of the college's poultry science program, and the National Turkey Federation wanted to begin a tradition of cooperation between the turkey industry and universities.\n\nThe turkeys are raised in the same fashion as turkeys designated for slaughter and are fed a grain-heavy diet of fortified corn and soybeans to increase the birds' size. A flock of between 50 and 80 birds, typically from the farm of the current National Turkey Federation chairperson, are selected to be acclimated to handle loud noises, flash photography and large crowds; from the flock, the 10 to 20 best-preened and best-behaved are chosen and eventually narrowed down to two finalists, whose names are chosen by the White House staff from suggestions by school children from the state where they were raised. The two finalists are then transported to Washington, where they stay at the Willard InterContinental Washington Hotel at National Turkey Federation expense before being pardoned in a ceremony at the White House. Turkey hens are usually marketed at 14 weeks and weigh when processed. This compares to the tom, which takes 18 weeks to reach a market weight of . The turkeys for the National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation are usually 21 week-old toms (males) weighing 45 pounds by the time of their White House visit, compared to the shorter growing period for turkeys destined for market.\n\nBroad Breasted White turkeys are bred for size at the expense of longer life, making them prone to health problems associated with obesity such as heart disease, respiratory failure and joint damage. For many years, the pardoned turkeys were documented to have very short lives after their pardoning, frequently dying within a year of being pardoned; for comparison, a wild or heritage turkey has a lifespan of at least five years. The lifespans of the pardoned turkeys have steadily improved in recent years, frequently having lifespans of over two years and occasionally reaching three years of age, an improvement attributed to better choices of homes after the pardons; rather than serving solely as tourist attractions, the turkeys are now placed in the care of experts who make conscious efforts to maintain the turkeys' health for as long as possible.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA number of U.S. states have similar turkey-pardoning events, including Minnesota. The pardoning ceremonies have also been extended to other holidays; for instance, Erie County, New York's county executive facetiously pardons a butter lamb during Holy Week.\n\nIn \"The West Wing\" episode \"Shibboleth,\" when C.J. learns the alternate turkey is to be slaughtered, she appeals to President Bartlet to save it. He points out that he cannot pardon a turkey, as it had committed no crime and he has no \"judicial jurisdiction over birds\". So, he drafts the turkey into military service to spare its life. In real life, both the turkey and the alternate are spared.\n\nThe animated film \"Free Birds\" centers around a turkey who was pardoned, then is recruited to go back in time in an attempt to change history and remove turkey from the menu of the first Thanksgiving dinner at Plymouth Colony.\n\nIn David Mamet's play \"November\", an incumbent president losing his bid for reelection uses the yearly tradition to extort the turkey manufacturers to add to his lacking campaign fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "25024858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25024858", "title": "Negrophilia", "text": "Negrophilia\n\nThis interest in exotic cultures had already been established within France due to the regular expositions the country held to showcase the objects and people of the French colonies. The fascination with specifically black culture and the \"primitivised\" existence associated with it flourished in the combined aftermath of the First World War (1914–1918) and the 1931 Colonial Exposition when artists yearned for a simpler, idyllic lifestyle to counter modern life's mechanistic violence. Avant-garde artists recognised for their negrophilia interests include poet and art critic Guillaume Apollinaire, artists Jean Cocteau, Tristan Tzara, Man Ray, Paul Colin, surrealists George Bataille and Michel Leiris, and political activist Nancy Cunard.\n\nDue to World War I, France saw an influx of African colonials migrate into Paris. This sudden rise in diversity led white Parisians to become fascinated by the introduction and immersion of black cultures in the city. During the late 1920s, several Parisian nightclubs began hosting bals, or authentic African-inspired dances, which were very popular among both the black and white French crowds. These bals became one of the leading interracial social spaces in France.\n\nWhile African immigrants went to a \"bal colonial\", or bal nègre, for recreation and fun, French surrealists often came for the scientific observation of black culture. The jazz music and sensual dancing found in black nightclubs were studied and appreciated by surrealists as major components of black civilization. Unfortunately, the \"scandalous\" night lifestyle of Black Africans and African Americans in France often provoked the French sexualization and fetishization of black culture. The bals were also one of the most prominent areas for interracial exchanges and relationships to occur. Hidden in the dark of night, young French and African adults could socialize and interact in ways that were highly controversial in average European society.\n\nTo the average Frenchman, the bal nègre was considered an opportunity for exotic experiences and sexual freedom. Black party-goers were no longer thought to be in these bals for their own enjoyment, but for the interests of white guests. As the appeal of exoticism rose, the opportunity for white people to interact and dance with black people became very attractive. This promise of \"exotic experimentation\" made these nightclubs very popular with the French bourgeois and turned them into tourist attractions. Interracial dancing gave the French a sense of liberation from the conventions of modern society, especially since the French depiction of Africa and Africans was primitive and passionate.\n\nThese progressive interracial relations did not surpass the walls of the Parisian nightclubs, though. The racial and social structures remained the same for blacks and whites in France during the early 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16810662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16810662", "title": "Okinawa Prefectural Peace Memorial Museum", "text": "Okinawa Prefectural Peace Memorial Museum\n\nDuring World War II, the United States invaded the Ryukyu Islands to use as a staging area for the Invasion of Japan. Fighting occurred between March and September of 1945, resulting in over 250,000 casualties, including 150,000 Okinawan civilians. The Battle of Okinawa has been described as the deadliest battle of the war. The United States controlled the islands until 1972, when they were returned to Japan and Okinawa Prefecture was reestablished.\n\nThe Peace Memorial Museam, Peace Prayer Park, and the Cornerstone of Peace were established in 1975 on Mabuni Hill, next to the “Suicide Cliffs” where the Battle of Okinawa ended. The Cornerstone of Peace is a semi-circular avenue of stones engraved with the names of all the dead from the Battle of Okinawa, organized by nationality (or by ethnicity for Chinese, Taiwanese, Koreans, and Okinawans). The Memorial Path includes 32 memorial monuments as well as the place where Lieutenant General Ushima committed suicide. There are a number of separate memorials including the Okinawa Peace Hall, a large tower erected in 1978, and individual monuments for each Prefecture of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "44447718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44447718", "title": "Olof Palme Peace March", "text": "Olof Palme Peace March\n\nThe Olof Palme Peace March was a transnational peace march/demonstration that took place in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) during September 1987.\n\nThe peace march involved people from three countries, West Germany, East Germany and Czechoslovakia. It began at Stralsund on the Baltic Sea (in German Sources \"East Sea\") coast, and crossed the territory of East Germany, taking a far from direct route, to end, officially, at Dresden. It was considered remarkable because members of East German political opposition groups were permitted to participate in the march legally.\n\nThe march was named to honour the former prime minister of Sweden, Olof Palme, who had been shot dead by an unidentified assailant on a Stockholm street the previous year, on 28 February 1986. Palme had opposed the nuclear arms race and advocated a nuclear weapons-free corridor in central Europe.\n\nThe Olof Palme Peace March was initiated by the German Peace Society in the German Federal Republic (West Germany), the in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) and the Peace Committee in Czechoslovakia. Along with national representatives from the three national peace movements, following pressure from the West German side, the were also permitted to take part in the Peace March. The Peace March was announced early in 1987 in Neues Deutschland, the national mass-circulation newspaper of East Germany's ruling SED (party). Its timing coincided with a scheduled visit by East German leader Erich Honecker to meet with his West German counterparts in Bonn between 7 and 11 September 1987.\n\nThe Peace March started on 1 September 1987 at the (recently renamed) in Stralsund, and traveled (predominantly) south, passing through places such as Burow, Potsdam, Wittenberg und Meißen before reaching Dresden.\n\nAt the same time all sorts of supportive events took place independently in towns and villages away from the route of the march, most of which were organised by . A major demonstration took place on 5 September in Prenzlauer Berg on the south side of Berlin, with around 1,000 participants proceeding from the in Berlin's to the Gethsemane Church in Pankow.\n\nThe highpoint came at the suggestion of an organisation called \"Action Reconciliation Service for Peace\" (\"Aktion Sühnezeichen Friedensdienste\") and involved several days of \"pilgrimage\" from the former concentration camp at Ravensbrück to that at Sachsenhausen. The route was intended to recall Death marches of concentration camp victims in 1945. Peace March participants were greeted in some of the places through which they passed by mayors and church ministers, with a local ceremony, typically involving prayers followed by the joint planting of a \"Peace Tree\" (\"Friedensbaum\"). Along their pilgrim route these protesters carried with them banners carrying peace messages about turning swords into poughshares, and others urging the wider availability of \"\" as an alternative to the compulsory military service that young Germans were obliged to undertake. Other protest banners called for an end to military indoctrination in the country's kindergartens and schools, an end to East German military-style fortification against would-be emigrants along the frontier between the two Germanys or an end to nuclear power.\n\nThe Olof-Palme Peace March was originally scheduled to proceed from Stralsund to Dresden and to take place between 1 and 18 September. Of the other related peace-protest events that took place across the country during those days, one of the most widely reported took place on 19 September, when approximately 500 people marched from the Buchenwald National Commemoration and Admonition Centre (ie the former concentration camp at Buchenwald) to the at Kapellendorf. Marchers included a local Lutheran pastor's daughter, Christine Lieberknecht who more recently, in 2009, became the regional prime minister in Thuringia. The pastors from the Church of the Good Shepherd in Weimar and from nearby welcomed the peace pilgrims and the banners which they carried, which here carried mainly messages with a particularly local resonance, calling for a corridor through central Europe free of chemical and nuclear weapons; something that Olof Palme and Erich Honecker had reportedly proposed. This march was organised by the Thuringia branch of the Christian Peace Conference (CFK).\n\nMany opposition activists in East Germany hoped that the Peace March might herald a more relaxed approach to political demonstrations by The Party. Earlier demonstrations had been violently suppressed, whereas the Olof Palme Peace March triggered only sporadic attacks on the peace activists. However, it soon became apparent that the authorities' strangely permissive reaction to this Peace March had resulted above all from the unusual circumstances presented by Honecker's visit to Bonn, and the government's unwillingness to risk the loss of face implicit in highly publicised assaults on peace marchers in the east while the eyes of the world's media were focused on Honecker's diplomacy in the west.\n\nHonecker returned home on 11/12 September and the police tactics became more aggressive regarding posters critical of government, which were confiscated in raids and/or banned in population centres such as Leipzig, Torgau and Dresden. Roughly two months after the Olof Palme Peace March, in late November 1987, the Stasi raided the in Berlin, which had been set up in the cellar of a church building at the beginning of September 1987, just as peace activists were setting out on their march in the north of the country. The Environment Library was already becoming known as a meeting point for East German opposition groups, and in their raid the Stasi arrested a number of activists. They displayed an absence of their habitual discretion, which served notice on any who might have doubted it that no new freedom had been established for political opposition in East Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "30862556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862556", "title": "Party for Freedom", "text": "Party for Freedom\n\nThe Party for Freedom (, PVV) is a Dutch nationalist and right-wing populist political party in the Netherlands.\n\nFounded in 2006 as the successor to Geert Wilders' one-man party in the House of Representatives, it won nine seats in the 2006 general election making it the fifth-largest party in parliament. In the 2010 general election it won 24 seats, making it the third-largest party. At that time the PVV agreed to support the minority government led by Prime Minister Mark Rutte without having ministers in the cabinet. However the PVV withdrew its support in April 2012 due to differences over budget cuts at the Catshuis. It came third in the 2014 European Parliament election, winning four out of 26 seats. In the 2017 election, the Party for Freedom won 20 seats, making it the second-largest party in Parliament.\n\nThe PVV calls for items like administrative detention and a strong assimilationist stance on the integration of immigrants into Dutch society, differing from the established centre-right parties in the Netherlands (like the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, VVD). The PVV has also proposed banning the Quran and shutting down all mosques in the Netherlands. In addition, the party is consistently Eurosceptic and since early July 2012, according to the platform it presented prior to elections in September, it strongly advocates withdrawal from the EU.\n\nParty for Freedom is an association with Geert Wilders as its sole member. The party is ineligible for Dutch government funding and relies on donations.\n\nThe party's history began with Geert Wilders' departure from the VVD in September 2004. Wilders could not accept the VVD's positive stance towards Turkey's possible accession to the European Union, and left the party disgruntled.\n\nAlthough the VVD expected Wilders to return his parliamentary seat to the party, he refused, and continued to sit in parliament as a one-man party, \"Groep Wilders\" (Wilders Group).\n\nIn June 2005, Wilders was one of the leaders in the campaign against the European Constitution, which was rejected by Dutch voters by 62%.\n\nOn 22 February 2006, the Party for Freedom was registered with the Electoral Council.\n\nBart Jan Spruyt, director of the conservative Edmund Burke Foundation, joined Wilders in January 2006 in order to formulate a party programme and to train its prospective representatives for the forthcoming national election (then still scheduled for 2007).\nSpruyt left the party in the summer of 2006 after it proved unable to build broad conservative backing, and people like Joost Eerdmans and Marco Pastors proved unwilling to join. After the 2006 elections, Spruyt said he was not surprised that the Party for Freedom had gained seats but maintained that, if the Party for Freedom had sought cooperation with Eerdmans and Pastors, it would have won more, even enough to bring about a CDA-VVD majority government.\nLater, Spruyt commented that the PVV had a 'natural tendency' toward fascism. He later qualified the statement, though he didn't withdraw it. Former PVV candidate Lucas Hartong called Spruyt's claims 'a cheap insinuation'.\n\nIn an \"HP/De Tijd\" profile dated December 2006, the party was described as a cult, with an extremely distrustful Wilders only accepting fellow candidates completely loyal to him, and compared the PVV to the Socialist Party led by Jan Marijnissen but without reaching that degree of organisational perfection.\n\nOn 10 January 2007, the PVV announced it would not field candidates at the forthcoming Provincial elections. This meant it would be unrepresented in the Senate.\n\nOn 13 January 2007, \"NRC Handelsblad\" reported that a PVV intern had solicited for signatures on the website forums \"Dutch Disease Report\" and \"Polinco\", the latter a forum described as far-right by various organisations, among them the Dutch Complaints Bureau for Discrimination on the Internet. Any party participating in this election was required to collect at least 30 signatures from supporters in each of the 19 electoral districts; of the 1500 signatures the PVV received, the Dutch Antifascist group identified 34 known far-right supporters. In a response, Wilders said he regretted that far-right sympathisers had provided signatures, denied any personal responsibility for them and reasserted his dislike of far-right parties like National Front of France and Flemish Interest.\nNoted writer and columnist Leon de Winter later declared the affair to be the result of a campaign of demonisation against Geert Wilders led by \"NRC Handelsblad\" and \"de Volkskrant\" newspapers, as well as the broadcaster VARA.\n\nFormer trade union leader and prominent Christian Democrat Doekle Terpstra proposed an initiative against Geert Wilders and the PVV on 30 November 2007, in the newspaper \"Trouw\". Terpstra sees Wilders as promoting intolerance, and discrimination against Muslims. He is supported in his cause by the large Dutch trade unions and refugee organisations. Politicians and the public are divided on Terpstra's initiative. The newspaper \"De Pers\" reported the next day that much of Terpstra's support did not actualise.\n\nIn 2008, the Friends of the Party of Freedom commissioned a producer, who acted under the name of \"Scarlet Pimpernel Productions\", a pseudonym adopted out of fear of reprisal, to produce \"Fitna\" (), a short film by Geert Wilders. Approximately 17 minutes in length, it shows selected excerpts from Suras of the Qur'an, interspersed with media clips and newspaper cuttings showing or describing acts of violence or hatred by Muslims. The film attempts to demonstrate that the Qur'an motivates its followers to hate all who violate Islamic teachings. Consequently, the film argues that Islam encourages acts of terrorism, antisemitism, violence against women and homosexuals, and Islamic universalism. A large part of the film deals with the influence of Islam on the Netherlands. The film's title, the Arabic word \"fitna\", means either \"disagreement and division among people\" or a \"test of faith in times of trial\". Wilders described the film as \"a call to shake off the creeping tyranny of Islamisation\".\n\nPolling by Maurice de Hond published in March 2009 indicated that the PVV was the most popular parliamentary party. The polls predicted that the party would take 21 per cent of the national vote, giving it 32 out of 150 seats in the Dutch parliament. If the polling results were to be replicated at a genuine election, Wilders would be a major power broker and could become Prime Minister. However, De Hond's results were not uncontroversial, as they were based on a panel of people who have signed up for the election poll on the Internet and thus were not a random sample. According to Joop van Holsteyn, professor of election research, therefore, De Hond's polls were not representative of the population. Other Dutch polls (Politieke Barometer and TNS NIPO) have shown contrasting results, with the PVV often getting less support, though still remaining very popular.\n\nOn 15 May 2009, the PVV asked Balkenende to support the foundation of a Greater Netherlands actively.\n\nBy February 2010, the PVV had once more become the most popular party, according to a poll by Maurice de Hond which said it would win 27–32 parliameary seats in the next election, up two from the previous poll in early January.\n\nOn 3 March 2010, elections for the local councils were held in the municipalities of the Netherlands. The PVV only contested these in The Hague and Almere, because of a shortage of good candidates. MP Raymond de Roon headed the campaign in his home town of Almere. Fellow MP Sietse Fritsma was appointed head of the local election campaign in The Hague. Both men would continue to serve as MPs as well as local councillors after their election. The PVV made big gains, suggesting that the party and Wilders might dominate the political scene in the run-up to the parliamentary elections scheduled on 9 June 2010. The PVV won in Almere and came second to the Labour Party in The Hague. In Almere, the PVV won 21 percent of the vote to Labour's 18 percent, preliminary results showed. In The Hague, the PVV had 8 seats – second to Labour with 10 seats. The local elections were the first test of public opinion since the collapse of the 4th Balkenende cabinet in February 2010. The municipal elections were overshadowed by the fall of the cabinet and the forthcoming parliamentary elections.\n\nOn 8 March 2010, Wilders announced he would take a seat on The Hague city council, after it became clear that he had won 13,000 preference votes. Earlier he had said he would not do so. One week after these local elections, the PVV called for an inquiry into the elections in The Hague, since a YouTube clip allegedly showed irregularities, including more than one person entering polling booths at the same time and a voter not putting the ballot paper into the box. These calls were rejected. The Hague council said the municipal elections had gone well and that any complaint should anyway have been lodged immediately after the results were announced. In Rotterdam, a full recount was held after a protest by Leefbaar Rotterdam, a local party with a programme broadly similar to that of the PVV.\n\nOn 18 March 2010, the PVV gave up trying to form a governing coalition in Almere. In a press release, the party said most of the other parties had refused to give ground to PVV demands on what it describes as \"essential issues\". These include what the party calls ‘city commandos’: street patrols to keep order in the face of inadequate proper law enforcement. Other obstacles were the PVV's demands for reduced taxes for Almere residents and its fight against what the party sees as \"the increasing influence of Islam in Dutch society\". The PVV complained that it was forced to stay in the opposition through the manoeuvring of the political elite.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections of 9 June 2010, the PVV went from 9 to 24 seats (of 150), winning over 15% of the votes, making the PVV the third largest party in parliament.\n\nBy July 2010, the PVV again became the biggest party in the polls after the parliamentary elections, following difficulties in forming a new coalition and the PVV technically being excluded from the coalition talks because the CDA showed reluctance to cooperate with the PVV. According to the polls, the PVV would get 35 seats in a new election, which is a record high number.\n\nIn August 2010, during the difficult cabinet formation following the elections, the PVV emerged as a prominent player in a proposal for a new minority government in the Netherlands. While the party would not gain a ministerial appointment, the PVV would tolerate a centre-right minority government coalition: a proposed deal that would make the party one of the most influential forces. Led by Ivo Opstelten, a former mayor of Rotterdam who was appointed mediator for the next stage of negotiations, the forming of a government of VVD and Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) with support of the PVV was negotiated; the resulting coalition agreement \"included elements it pushed for, such as a burqa ban,\" though the ban was never put in place. The VVD and CDA would have to rely on the PVV to get important legislation through. With this deal the Netherlands would follow the \"Danish model\", since in Denmark the anti-immigration Danish People's Party also stayed out of government but supported a minority center-right Liberal-Conservative government. The very fact of the participation of the PVV in these coalition negotiations has caused fierce discussions in political circles and was considered very unlikely until recently.\n\nAfter the elections, CDA parliamentary fraction president Maxime Verhagen first had stated that as a matter of principle he refused to negotiate with VVD and PVV about a centre-right government, saying that the PVV represented views that could not be reconciled with Dutch law. These objections on principle disappeared in five weeks and Verhagen turned out to be willing to negotiate over a cabinet whose fate would (also) lie in the hands of Wilders.\n\nOn 20 March 2012, Hero Brinkman quit the party, citing a lack of democratic structure within the PVV among other things; qualifying this with a statement of continued support for the minority Rutte cabinet. Two days later, three members of the States of North Holland representing the PVV followed his example. In July 2012, Marcial Hernandez and Wim Kortenoeven quit the PVV, both citing what they considered to be Wilders' autocratic leadership of the party.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections of 12 September 2012, the PVV went from 24 to 15 seats (of 150), winning 10% of the vote.\n\nIn October 2013, the party expelled Louis Bontes, but he kept his seat in parliament. In March 2014, Roland van Vliet and Joram van Klaveren left the party and also kept their seats in parliament.\n\nIn the European Parliament election on 22 May 2014, the party kept its four seats in the European Parliament. MEP Hans Jansen died on 5 May 2015 and was replaced by Auke Zijlstra on 1 September 2015.\n\nOn 16 June 2015, the Party for Freedom and other right-wing nationalist parties in the European Parliament formed the political group Europe of Nations and Freedom. Marcel de Graaff of the PVV and Marine Le Pen of the National Front became the first co-presidents of this group.\n\nFor the 2017 Dutch general election, the Party for Freedom had an election platform of a single page. Before the election, all major parties said they would not form a government coalition with the PVV. A typical House of Representatives has a large number of parties represented, since it takes as little as 0.67 percent of the vote to get a seat. With such a fragmented vote, the PVV would have needed the support of other parties in order to make Wilders prime minister, even if it won the most seats in the House of Representatives. Wilders hinted that a \"revolution\" would occur if the PVV won the most seats and was still locked out of power.\n\nThe party won 20 seats (of 150) according to the preliminary results, which is 5 seats more than in the previous election in 2012 and made it the second-largest party in Parliament.\n\nThe Party for Freedom combines conservative, liberal, right and left standpoints in a populistic programme. On certain themes like healthcare, social services and elderly care the PVV can be seen as left and social, though selective. Regarding immigration and culture the party is nationalistic. It believes that the Judeo-Christian and humanist traditions should be taken as the dominant culture in the Netherlands, and that immigrants should adapt accordingly. The party wants a halt to immigration especially from non-Western countries. It is hostile towards the EU, is against future EU enlargement to Muslim-majority countries like Turkey and opposes a dominant presence of Islam in the Netherlands. More specifically, the party has called for a banning the Quran, and shutting down all mosques in the Netherlands. The party is also opposed to dual citizenship (see below).\n\nThe Parliamentary Documentation Center (Parlementair Documentatie Centrum) of the Leiden University characterises the PVV as \"populist, with both conservative, liberal, right-wing and left-wing positions\".\nIn December 2008, the eighth study \"Monitor Racism and Extremism\", conducted by the Anne Frank Foundation and the Leiden University, has found that the Party for Freedom can be considered extreme right-wing, although \"with ifs and buts\". Economically they are viewed as a left-wing party. Peter Rodrigues and Jaap van Donselaar, who have academically guided the study, explain this classification with the Islamophobia, nationalism, and \"sharp aversion to the strange\", subsumed as racism, which they have observed within the party.\n\nIn January 2010, the report \"Polarisatie en radicalisering in Nederland\" (transl. \"Polarisation and radicalisation in the Netherlands\") by political researchers Moors, Lenke Balogh, Van Donselaar and De Graaff from the Tilburg University research group IVA stated that the PVV was not an extreme right-wing party, but contained some radical right-wing elements. The study claims that the PVV holds xenophobic ideas, but not antisemitic ideas – the PVV describes its culture as Jewish-Christian humanistic. \"The PVV statements on Islamisation and non-Western immigrants appear to be discriminatory and the party organisation is authoritarian rather than democratic\", said the researchers, who were looking into polarisation and radicalism across the Netherlands. They described the PVV as the \"new radical right\", a party with a national democratic ideology but without extreme right-wing roots. In particular, the report stated that the party's pro-Israel stance showed that it was not neo-Nazi. It tends however towards a national democratic ideology. Wilders called the report \"scandalous\"—in particular the link between defending the national interest and the radical right.\n\nAn alleged earlier version of the report, leaked to the Dutch daily newspaper \"de Volkskrant\" in November 2009, said that Wilders' party is an extreme right-wing grouping and a threat to social cohesion and democracy. The paper claimed at the time the researchers were under pressure to water down the conclusions because of their political sensitivity. The Dutch Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations Guusje ter Horst, (2007–2010), Labour (PvdA), who commissioned the research, denied exerting any interference. In response, Wilders accused her of \"playing a dirty game\".\n\nSome commentators and international scholarly publications have argued that the party is far-right; for example, the ex-prime minister Van Agt regards the party as ultra-right-wing, and Bert de Vries (CDA) draws comparisons with the small Centre Party. The political scientist Lucardie, on the other hand, considers it necessary to reserve the 'far-right' qualification for national socialists and fascists. International media outlets, similarly, have followed this classification. On the other hand, it has occasionally been regarded as \"centre-right\". The party has been regarded by some as anti-Polish, anti-Slavic, anti-Romani and anti-Muslim. Wilders however maintains that he is not anti-Muslim, only anti-Islam, summing up his views by stating \"I don't hate Muslims, I hate Islam\".\n\nIn February 2007, PVV parliamentarian Fritsma introduced a motion that would have prohibited any parliamentarian or executive branch politician from having dual citizenship. The PVV claimed that dual nationals have unclear loyalty. The motion would have made it difficult, if not impossible for Labour MPs Ahmed Aboutaleb and Nebahat Albayrak to become members of the fourth Balkenende cabinet. The motion had to be withdrawn, however, after objection from the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gerdi Verbeet (Labour Party). Maastricht University law professor has commented on the risk in executive branch officials having dual citizenship. however the European Convention on Human Rights as reviewed in 2010 ECtHR jurisprudence has reaffirmed that form of discrimination is a violation of a human right. However, in 2007 the PVV planned to call for a vote of no confidence against junior ministers Aboutaleb and Albayrak when the new cabinet had its first meeting with the House of Representatives, claiming that their respectively Moroccan and Turkish passports put their loyalties into question. In the event, the motion was only supported by the PVV itself.\n\nThe issue of dual nationality, however, was not over yet. On 2 March 2007, Radio Netherlands Worldwide reported that Labour Party MP Khadija Arib, who had been sworn into parliament the day before, was sitting on a commission appointed by the king of Morocco. The PVV said that this commission work endangers Arib's loyalty to the Netherlands, and that she should choose between being a member of the Dutch parliament or the Moroccan commission. Geert Wilders said that Arib's remark on national television that her loyalty lay neither with the Netherlands nor Morocco was shameful. The liberal VVD party similarly remarked that her \"double orientation would hurt Dutch integration.\" All other parties were appalled by the PVV and VVD's comments.\n\nPerhaps in the light of the \"Moldova\" ruling, in the first Rutte government in 2010 chaired by the VVD leader, supported by the PVV, Marlies Veldhuijzen van Zanten became the new State Secretary for Health, Welfare and Sport, having both Dutch and Swedish nationality.\n\nThe party fielded a controversial motion in the 2007 \"general deliberations\" on the immigration budget, calling for a stop to immigration from Muslim countries. The House of Representatives at first declined to bring the motion forward for debate. Justice Minister Ernst Hirsch Ballin said it was in violation of the Dutch constitution and international law. Another motion by the PVV, against police officers wearing veils, did gain a parliamentary majority.\n\nIn 2012, the PVV party launched a website named \"Reporting Centre on Central and East Europeans\" to receive complaints about Central and East European immigrants in the Netherlands. 'Do you have problems with people from Central and Eastern Europe? Have you lost your job to a Pole, a Bulgarian, a Romanian or another East European? We want to know,' the website states. It displays newspaper headlines such as 'Wouldn't it be better if you went back home?' and 'East Europeans, increasingly criminal'. The European Commission has condemned the website, and EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding declared, \"We call on all citizens of the Netherlands not to join in this intolerance. Citizens should instead clearly state on the PVV's website that Europe is a place of freedom.\" The website caused a lot of controversy within the European Union.\n\nPVV declared that, since it is against state subsidies, it rejects its own party to be financially supported by the government and believes the \"tax payer should not pay for political parties they don't support\".\n\nIn 2012, the Dutch Parliament discussed tightening the financial rules for political parties, forcing them to become more transparent. The PVV indicated that it would use any means available not to disclose its donors.\n\nOther policies that Wilders mentions in his party program for the 2010 general election:\n\nThe name 'Party for Freedom' (\"Partij voor de Vrijheid\") is a reference to the Freedom Party (\"Partij van de Vrijheid\"), a Dutch political party founded in 1946, shortly after World War II. In 1948, the Freedom Party went on as the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (\"Volkspartij voor Vrijheid en Democratie\"), which is the party Wilders split from.\n\nThe party logo consists of the party name and a gull in red, white, and blue, which are the colors of the Dutch flag. The gull symbolises freedom or liberty. The gull had also been used as a symbol by the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands on propaganda posters and for their youth wing, but Wilders claimed it was not inspired by Nazi usage.\n\nIn order to register for elections in the Netherlands, a political party needs to be an association (), which can be founded by two or more members. The Vereniging Groep Wilders (Association Group Wilders) was founded by the natural person Geert Wilders and Stichting Groep Wilders (Foundation Group Wilders), of which Wilders is the only board member. The association was later renamed to Partij voor de Vrijheid (Party for Freedom). After the creation of the association, Wilders disabled new member registration, resulting in his remaining the sole member of the party. The party does not organise public party conferences and does not have local departments, a youth wing, or a research institute.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a political party needs to have 1,000 members or more to be eligible for government funding, a requirement which the Party for Freedom does not meet with Wilders being the only member.\n\nOn several instances the PVV applied for and received European Union funding.\n\nFinancially, the party has been largely relying on donations. The party has not disclosed any of its finances until 2013. According to Hero Brinkman, a former MP for the party, the PVV received most of its finances from certain foreign (American) lobby-groups. According to Reuters, Daniel Pipes' Middle East Forum paid for the trials and security of Geert Wilders and David Horowitz paid Wilders \"a good fee\" for two speeches given in the US.\n\nSince 2013, Dutch political parties are required by law to disclose all donations of 4,500 euro or more. The Party for Freedom disclosed no donations for 2013. For 2014 to 2016, the party disclosed a total of 148,391.07 euro in donations from the California-based David Horowitz Freedom Center, a total of 18,700 euro in donations from a private donor in the Netherlands, and a donation of 6,853.70 euro from the New York-based company FOL Inc. The 2015 donations of just over 108,244 euro from the Freedom Center was \"the largest individual contribution to a Dutch political party that year.\"\n\nThe twenty members (fourteen men, six women) of the House of Representatives for the Party for Freedom are:\n\nThe nine members (eight men, one woman) of the Senate for the Party for Freedom are:\n\nThe four Members of the European Parliament (four men) for the Party for Freedom are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11745461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11745461", "title": "Patient Information Advisory Group", "text": "Patient Information Advisory Group\n\nThe Patient Information Advisory Group (PIAG) was established in the United Kingdom under section 61 of the Health and Social Care Act 2001 and the Patient Information Advisory Group (Establishment) Regulations 2001 to provide advice on issues of national significance involving the use of patient information and to oversee arrangements created under section 60 of the Act. Its membership was drawn from patient groups, health care professionals and regulatory bodies. Following the implementation of the Health and Social Care Act 2008, PIAG was abolished and its responsibilities transferred to a new body, the National Information Governance Board for Health and Social Care, with effect from January 2009.\n\nThe terms of reference for the PIAG were to:\n\n\nSection 60 of the Health and Social Care Act 2001 (subsequently Section 251 of the NHS Act 2006) provided a power to ensure that patient identifiable information needed to support essential NHS activity could be used without the consent of patients. The power could only be used to support medical purposes that were in the interests of patients or the wider public, where consent was not a practicable alternative and where anonymised information would not suffice. It was intended largely as a transitional measure whilst consent or anonymisation procedures were developed, and this was reinforced by the need to review each use of the power annually.\n\nThis was developed to cover situations where informed consent could not be obtained, for example research projects of such a size as to make contacting each patient impracticable, where the public good derived from the research was agreed to outweigh the individual right to privacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "538538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538538", "title": "Praetorian prefect", "text": "Praetorian prefect\n\nThe praetorian prefect (, ) was a high office in the Roman Empire. Originating as the commander of the Praetorian Guard, the office gradually acquired extensive legal and administrative functions, with its holders becoming the Emperor's chief aides. Under Constantine I, the office was much reduced in power and transformed into a purely civilian administrative post, while under his successors, territorially-defined praetorian prefectures emerged as the highest-level administrative division of the Empire. The prefects again functioned as the chief ministers of the state, with many laws addressed to them by name. In this role, praetorian prefects continued to be appointed by the Eastern Roman Empire (and the Ostrogothic Kingdom) until the reign of Heraclius in the 7th century AD, when wide-ranging reforms reduced its power and converted it to a mere overseer of provincial administration. The last traces of the prefecture disappeared in the Byzantine Empire by the 840s.\n\nThe term \"praefectus praetorio\" was often abbreviated in inscriptions as 'PR PR' or 'PPO'.\n\nUnder the empire the praetorians or imperial guards were commanded by one, two, or even three praefects (praefecti praetorio), who were chosen by the emperor from among the equites and held office at his pleasure. From the time of Alexander Severus the post was open to senators also, and if an equestrian was appointed he was at the same time raised to the senate. Down to the time of Constantine, who deprived the office of its military character, the prefecture of the guards was regularly held by tried soldiers, often by men who had fought their way up from the ranks. In course of time the command seems to have been enlarged so as to include all the troops in Italy except the corps commanded by the city praefect (\"cohortes urbanae\").\n\nThe special position of the praetorians made them a power in their own right in the Roman state, and their prefect, the \"praefectus praetorio\", soon became one of the more powerful men in this society. The emperors tried to flatter and control the praetorians, but they staged many coups d'état and contributed to a rapid rate of turnover in the imperial succession. The praetorians thus came to destabilize the Roman state, contrary to their purpose. The praetorian prefect became a major administrative figure in the later empire, when the post combined in one individual the duties of an imperial chief of staff with direct command over the guard also. Diocletian greatly reduced the power of these prefects as part of his sweeping reform of the empire's administrative and military structures.\n\nIn addition to his military functions, the praetorian prefect came to acquire jurisdiction over criminal affairs, which he exercised not as the delegate but as the representative of the emperor. By the time of Diocletian he had become a kind of grand-vizier as the emperor's vice-regent and 'prime minister.' Constantine removed active military command in 312. The prefect remained as chief quarter-master general responsible for the logistical supply of the army. The prefect was the chief financial officer whose office drew up the global imperial budget. His office drew up the state liturgical obligations laid on the richer inhabitants of the Empire. He ceased to be head of administration which had to be shared with the master of the offices attached to the palace. Constantine in 331 confirmed that from the sentence of the praetorian praefect there should be no appeal. A similar jurisdiction in civil cases was acquired by him not later than the time of Septimius Severus. Hence a knowledge of law became a qualification for the post, which under Marcus Aurelius and Commodus, but especially from the time of Severus, was held by the first jurists of the age, (e.g. Papinian, Ulpian, Paulus) and, under Justinianus, John the Cappadocian, while the military qualification fell more and more into the background.\n\nThe tetrarchy reform of Diocletian (c. 296) multiplied the office: there was a praetorian prefect as chief of staff (military and administrative)—rather than commander of the guard—for each of the two Augusti, but not for the two Caesars. Each praetorian prefect oversaw one of the four quarters created by Diocletian, which became regional praetorian prefectures for the young sons of Constantine ca 330 A.D. From 395 there two imperial courts, at Rome (later Ravenna) and Constantinople, but the four prefectures remained as the highest level of administrative division, in charge of several dioceses (groups of Roman provinces), each of which was headed by a Vicarius.\nUnder Constantine I, the institution of the magister militum deprived the praetorian prefecture altogether of its military character but left it the highest civil office of the empire.\n\nThe office was among the many maintained after the Western Roman Empire had succumbed to the Germanic invasion in Italy, notably at the royal court of the Ostrogothic king Theoderic the Great, who as a nominal subject of Constantinople retained the Roman-era administration intact.\n\nThe following is a list of all known prefects of the Praetorian Guard, from the establishment of the post in 2 BC by Augustus until the abolishment of the Guard in 314. The list is presumed to be incomplete due to the lack of sources documenting the exact number of persons who held the post, what their names were and what the length of their tenure was. Likewise, the Praetorians were sometimes commanded by a single prefect, as was the case with for example Sejanus or Burrus, but more often, the emperor appointed two commanders, who shared joint leadership. Overlapping terms on the list indicate dual command.\n\nFor praetorian prefects after the reformation of the office by emperor Constantine I, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "5670924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670924", "title": "Red Friday", "text": "Red Friday\n\nOn Friday 31 July 1925 the British government agreed to the demands of the Miners Federation of Great Britain to provide a subsidy to the mining industry to maintain miners' wages. The \"Daily Herald\" called this day Red Friday; a union defeat four years earlier had been called \"Black Friday\". The 1926 General Strike followed nine months later.\n\nThere had been a long history of labour unrest in the British coal mining industry. A triple alliance had been formed in 1914 of the Miners Federation, the Transport and General Workers Union and the National Union of Railwaymen, for mutual support in trade disputes, but had been unable to undertake united action due to World War I. In 1916, at the height of World War I, Lloyd George's government had taken control of the industry, but with inflation the purchasing power of miners' wages had fallen.\n\nAfter the war government control was relaxed, and the triple alliance was revived. In 1919, as a conciliatory measure, the government appointed a royal commission to investigate the industry under Mr Justice Sankey, which recommended the nationalisation of mining royalties but did not explain how this would be achieved. The government, citing the lack of unanimity of the commission, declined to implement its report. The government responded to a strike by the Yorkshire miners in July 1919 by planning measures to maintain the mines during the strike.\n\nIn April 1921 the miners went on strike, seeking equalisation of wages between coalfields, but the unity of the triple alliance collapsed, leaving the miners to fight on until hunger drove them back to work on Black Friday, leaving the employers (who had come together in the Mining Association) in control. There was a small concession to the miners of a temporary subsidy of £10M, but their average pay fell by 30% during 1921.\n\nIn April 1925 Britain returned to the gold standard. This was effectively a revaluation of sterling, and led to deflation in the British economy over the following years. This made it difficult for the coal owners to export coal profitably in the face of resurgent German exports. On 30 June the Mining Association gave notice to terminate the 1924 wage agreement, after which wages would be cut (with no national minimum) and hours increased. Negotiations took place, but it was soon apparent that, without a subsidy, a strike or lock-out was inevitable. The miners had secured an agreement from the railwaymen that they would not handle coal. This was likely to result in the railway companies sacking those who refused, leading to a railway strike. \n\nThe government reviewed emergency arrangements and Prime Minister Baldwin concluded, \"We were not ready\". In consequence the government backed down, and negotiated a subsidy for the coal industry to last nine months to enable the employers to maintain wages and conditions. This cost £23M. It seems that an emergency plan existed on paper, but would require the recruitment of many volunteers to implement it, and the staff did not exist.\n\nThe subsidy could only be a temporary measure. The government immediately put in hand measures to be implemented in the event of a general strike, which seemed inevitable when the subsidy ended.\n\n"}
{"id": "174806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174806", "title": "Red Scare", "text": "Red Scare\n\nA \"Red Scare\" is promotion of widespread fear by a society or state about a potential rise of communism, anarchism, or radical leftism. The term is most often used to refer to two periods in the history of the United States with this name. The First Red Scare, which occurred immediately after World War I, revolved around a perceived threat from the American labor movement, anarchist revolution and political radicalism. The Second Red Scare, which occurred immediately after World War II, was preoccupied with national or foreign communists infiltrating or subverting U.S. society or the federal government.\n\nThe first Red Scare began following the Bolshevik Russian Revolution of 1917 and the intensely patriotic years of World War I as anarchist and left-wing social agitation aggravated national, social, and political tensions. Political scientist, and former member of the Communist Party Murray B. Levin wrote that the Red Scare was \"a nationwide anti-radical hysteria provoked by a mounting fear and anxiety that a Bolshevik revolution in America was imminent—a revolution that would change Church, home, marriage, civility, and the American way of Life\". Newspapers exacerbated those political fears into anti-foreign sentiment because varieties of radical anarchism were becoming popular as possible solutions to poverty, often by recent European immigrants (cf. hyphenated-Americans). When the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) backed several labor strikes in 1916 and 1917, the press portrayed them as \"radical threats to American society\" inspired by \"left-wing, foreign \"agents provocateurs\"\". Those on the side of the IWW claim that the press \"misrepresented legitimate labor strikes\" as \"crimes against society\", \"conspiracies against the government\", and \"plots to establish communism\". Opponents, on the other hand, saw these as an extension of the radical, anarchist foundations of the IWW, which contends that all workers should be united as a social class and that capitalism and the wage system should be abolished.\nIn April 1919, authorities discovered a plot for mailing 36 bombs to prominent members of the U.S. political and economic establishment: J. P. Morgan Jr., John D. Rockefeller, Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, U.S. Attorney General Alexander Mitchell Palmer, and immigration officials. On June 2, 1919, in eight cities, eight bombs simultaneously exploded. One target was the Washington, D.C., house of U.S. Attorney General Palmer, where the explosion killed the bomber, who evidence indicated was an Italian-American radical from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Afterwards, Palmer ordered the U.S. Justice Department to launch the Palmer Raids (1919–21).\n\nYet, in 1918, before the bombings, President Woodrow Wilson had pressured the Congress to legislate the anti-anarchist Sedition Act of 1918 to protect wartime morale by deporting putatively undesirable political people. Law professor David D. Cole reports that President Wilson's \"federal government consistently targeted alien radicals, deporting them ... for their speech or associations, making little effort to distinguish terrorists from ideological dissidents.\"\n\nInitially, the press praised the raids; \"The Washington Post\" said, \"There is no time to waste on hairsplitting over [the] infringement of liberty\", and \"The New York Times\" said the injuries inflicted upon the arrested were \"souvenirs of the new attitude of aggressiveness which had been assumed by the Federal agents against Reds and suspected-Reds\". In the event, the Palmer Raids were criticized as unconstitutional by twelve publicly prominent lawyers, including (future Supreme Court Justice) Felix Frankfurter, who published \"A Report on the Illegal Practices of The United States Department of Justice\", documenting systematic violations of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution via Palmer-authorized \"illegal acts\" and \"wanton violence\". Defensively, Palmer then warned that a government-deposing left-wing revolution would begin on 1 May 1920 — May Day, the International Workers' Day. When it failed to happen, he was ridiculed and lost much credibility. Strengthening the legal criticism of Palmer was that fewer than 600 deportations were substantiated with evidence, out of the thousands of resident aliens arrested and deported. In July 1920, Palmer's once-promising Democratic Party bid for the U.S. presidency failed. Wall Street was bombed on September 2, 1920, near Federal Hall National Memorial and the JP Morgan Bank. Although both anarchists and Communists were suspected as being responsible for the bombing, ultimately no individuals were indicted for the bombing in which 38 died and 141 were injured.\n\nIn 1919–20, several states enacted \"criminal syndicalism\" laws outlawing advocacy of violence in effecting and securing social change. The restrictions included free speech limitations. Passage of these laws, in turn, provoked aggressive police investigation of the accused persons, their jailing, and deportation for being \"suspected\" of being either communist or left-wing. Regardless of ideological gradation, the Red Scare did not distinguish between communism, anarchism, socialism, or social democracy.\n\nThe second Red Scare occurred after World War II (1939–45), and was popularly known as \"McCarthyism\" after its most famous supporter, Senator Joseph McCarthy. McCarthyism coincided with increased popular fear of communist espionage consequent to a Soviet Eastern Europe, the Berlin Blockade (1948–49), the Chinese Civil War, the confessions of spying for the Soviet Union given by several high-ranking U.S. government officials, and the Korean War.\n\nThe events of the late 1940s, early 1950s - the trial of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg (1953), the trial of Alger Hiss, the Iron Curtain (1945–1991) around Eastern Europe, and the Soviet Union's first nuclear weapon test in 1949 (RDS-1) - surprised the American public, influencing popular opinion about U.S. National Security, that, in turn, connected to fear of the Soviet Union hydrogen-bombing the United States, and fear of the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA).\n\nIn Canada, the 1946 Kellock–Taschereau Commission investigated espionage after top secret documents concerning RDX, radar and other weapons were handed over to the Soviets by a domestic spy-ring.\n\nAt the House Un-American Activities Committee, former CPUSA members and NKVD spies, Elizabeth Bentley and Whittaker Chambers, testified that Soviet spies and communist sympathizers had penetrated the U.S. government before, during and after World War II. Other U.S. citizen spies confessed to their acts of espionage in situations where the statute of limitations on prosecuting them had run out. In 1949, anti–communist fear, and fear of American traitors, was aggravated by the Chinese Communists winning the Chinese Civil War against the Western-sponsored Kuomintang, their founding of the People's Republic of China, and later Chinese intervention in the Korean War (1950–53) against U.S. ally South Korea.\n\nA few of the events during the Red Scare were also due to a power struggle between director of FBI J. Edgar Hoover and the Central Intelligence Agency. Hoover had instigated and aided some of the investigations of members of the CIA with \"leftist\" history, like Cord Meyer. This conflict could also be traced back to the conflict between Hoover and William J. Donovan, going back to the first Red Scare, but especially during World War II. Donovan ran the OSS (CIA's predecessor). They had differing opinions on the nature of the alliance with the Soviet Union, conflicts over jurisdiction, conflicts of personality, the OSS hiring of communists and criminals as agents, etc.\n\nBy the 1930s, communism had become an attractive economic ideology, particularly among labor leaders and intellectual elites. By 1939, the CPUSA had about 50,000 members. In 1940, soon after World War II began in Europe, the U.S. Congress legislated the Alien Registration Act (aka the Smith Act, 18 USC § 2385) making it a crime to \"knowingly or willfully advocate, abet, advise or teach the duty, necessity, desirability or propriety of overthrowing the Government of the United States or of any State by force or violence, or for anyone to organize any association which teaches, advises or encourages such an overthrow, or for anyone to become a member of or to affiliate with any such association\"—and required Federal registration of all foreign nationals. Although principally deployed against communists, the Smith Act was also used against right-wing political threats such as the German-American Bund, and the perceived racial disloyalty of the Japanese-American population, (\"cf.\" hyphenated-Americans).\n\nIn 1941, after Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union, the CPUSA's official position became pro-war, opposing labor strikes in the weapons industry and supporting the U.S. war effort against the Axis Powers. With the slogan \"Communism is Twentieth-Century Americanism\", the chairman, Earl Browder, advertised the CPUSA's integration to the political mainstream. In contrast, the Trotskyist Socialist Workers Party opposed U.S. participation in the war and supported labor strikes, even in the war-effort industry. For this reason, James P. Cannon and other SWP leaders were convicted per the Smith Act.\n\nIn March 1947, President Harry S. Truman signed Executive Order 9835, creating the \"Federal Employees Loyalty Program\" establishing political-loyalty review boards who determined the \"Americanism\" of Federal Government employees, and recommended termination of those who had confessed to spying for the Soviet Union, as well as some suspected of being \"Un-American\". It also was the template for several state legislatures' loyalty acts, such as California's Levering Act. The House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) and the committees of Senator Joseph McCarthy (R., Wisc.) conducted character investigations of \"American communists\" (actual and alleged), and their roles in (real and imaginary) espionage, propaganda, and subversion favoring the Soviet Union—in the process revealing the extraordinary breadth of the Soviet spy network in infiltrating the federal government; the process also launched the successful political career of Richard Nixon, and Robert F. Kennedy, as well as that of Joseph McCarthy.\n\nSenator McCarran introduced the McCarran Internal Security Act of 1950 that was passed by the U.S. Congress and which modified a great deal of law to restrict civil liberties in the name of security. President Truman declared the act a \"mockery of the Bill of Rights\" and a \"long step toward totalitarianism\" because it represented a government restriction on the freedom of opinion. He vetoed the act but his veto was overridden by Congress. Much of the bill eventually was repealed.\n\nThe Second Red Scare profoundly altered the temper of American society. Its later characterizations may be seen as contributory to works of feared communist espionage, such as the film \"My Son John\" (1952), about parent's suspicions their son is a spy. Abundant accounts in narrative forms contained themes of the infiltration, subversion, invasion, and destruction of American society by un–American \"thought\". In science fiction movies like \"The Thing\" (1951), tales of alien humanoid beings abounded. Even a baseball team, the Cincinnati Reds, temporarily renamed themselves the \"Cincinnati Redlegs\" to avoid the money-losing and career-ruining connotations inherent in being ball-playing \"Reds\" (communists).\n\nIn 1995, the American government revealed details of the Venona Project, which when combined with the opening of the USSR ComIntern archives, provided substantial validation of intelligence gathering, outright spying, and policy influencing, by Americans on behalf of the Soviet Union, from 1940 through 1980.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35018021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35018021", "title": "Religion and peacebuilding", "text": "Religion and peacebuilding\n\nReligion and peacebuilding refers to the study of religion's role in the development of peace. Scholars generally accept that religion has been, at different points in history, both advantageous and ruinous to the promotion of peace However, there have been many approaches to explaining this variability.\n\nNathan C. Funk and Christina J. Woolner categorize these approaches into three models. The first is “peace through religion alone”. This proposes to attain world peace through devotion to a given religion. Opponents claim that advocates generally want to attain peace through their particular religion only and have little tolerance of other ideologies. \nThe second model, a response to the first, is “peace without religion”. Critics claim that it is overly simplistic and fails to address other causes of conflict as well as the peace potential of religion. It is also said that this model excludes the many contributions of religious people in the development of peace. Another critique claims that both approaches require bringing everyone into their own ideology.\n\nThe third and final approach is known as “peace with religion”. This approach focuses on the importance of coexistence and interfaith dialogue. Gerrie ter Haar suggests that religion is neither inherently good nor bad for peace, and that its influence is undeniable. Peace with religion, then, emphasises promoting the common principles present in every major religion.\n\nA major component of religion and peacebuilding is faith-based non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Douglas Johnston points out that faith-based NGOs offer two distinct advantages. The first is that since faith-based NGOs are very often locally based, they have immediate influence within that community. He argues that “it is important to promote indigenous ownership of conflict prevention and peacebuilding initiatives as early in the process as possible.” The second advantage Johnston presents is that faith-based NGOs carry moral authority that contributes to the receptivity of negotiations and policies for peace.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains many sources for religious peacebuilding. Some of which include:\n\n\nProject Ploughshares is a Canadian non-government organization concerned with the prevention of war, the disarmament of weapons, and peacebuilding. Though it is an agency of the Canadian Council of Churches and is sponsored by the nine national churches of Canada, Project Ploughshares is run by and for people of a variety of different faith backgrounds. Project Ploughshares works with various NGOs operating abroad to develop research and complete analyses of government policies. In the past, Project Ploughshares' work has included meeting with prime ministers to discuss nuclear disarmament, establishing and coordinating an agency for disarmament and security of the Horn in Africa, working with the UN and NATO on policy-making, and publishing research papers, one of which was endorsed by over 40 000 Canadians and had a serious influence over Canada's decision not to declare war on Iraq.\n\nProject Ploughshares takes its name from Isaiah 2:4 where it is written \"God shall judge between the nations, and shall decide for many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation; neither shall they learn war any more.\"\n\nPax Christi is the \"official international Catholic peace movement\" as recognized by Pope Pius XII in 1952.\n\nIt was founded after World War II as reconciliary movement by French citizens including Bishop Pierre-Marie Théas of Tarbes and Lourdes. First goal was the reconciliation between France and Germany; the German branch or section later concentrated on reconciliation with Poland and initiated the foundation of the .\n\nToday the Pax Christi network membership is made up of 18 national sections and 115 Member Organizations working in over 50 countries,\nfocusing on five main issues: human rights, human security, disarmament and demilitarisation, just world order, and religion and peace.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith requires believers to avoid prejudice in daily life, to be friendly to people of all religions, social statuses, nationalities or various cultural traditions. At the nation's level, it calls for negotiation and dialogue between country leaders, to promote the process of world peace. For world peace, the Bahá'í Faith has the notion of \"the Lesser Peace\" and \"the Great Peace\". The previous one is considered the level of political peace, that a peace treaty is signed, and wars are eliminated; the latter refers to God's kingdom on earth, the world reaches its unity and in cooperation, all world's people uses an auxiliary language, a unified currency system, achieves economic justice, a world tribunal is available, and massive disarmament of all countries.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, discouraged all forms of violence, including religious violence, writing that his aim was to: ``quench the flame of hate and enmity\" and that the ``religion of God is for love and unity; make it not the cause of enmity or dissension.\" He warned of the dangers of religious fanaticism describing it as a ``world devouring fire\", prohibited holy war, and condemned the shedding of blood, the burning of books, the shunning of the followers of other religions and the extermination of communities and groups. Bahá'u'lláh promoted the concept of the oneness of the world and human beings describing the Earth as \"but one country, and mankind its citizens\". Bahá'u'lláh identified the elimination of disunity as a necessary pre-requisite to peace. \"The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly established.\"\n\nIn 1985, as a contribution to the 1986 International Year of Peace, the international governing body of the Bahá'í Faith, the Universal House of Justice, released a major statement on the promotion of peace, that was distributed worldwide by the Bahá'í community. The statement sets out an analysis and strategy for creation of a more peaceful world. It identifies the following barriers to peace: racism, economic injustice, uncontrolled nationalism, religious strife, inequality between man and women, an absence of universal education, and the need for an international auxiliary language. The statement concludes with a call for establishment of the \"oneness of humanity\", a call which implies \"no less than the reconstruction and the demilitarization of the whole civilized world — a world organically unified in all the essential aspects of its life, its political machinery, its spiritual aspiration, its trade and finance, its script and language, and yet infinite in the diversity of the national characteristics of its federated units.\"\n\nEngaged Buddhism is a term coined by Thich Nhat Hanh in the 1960s to describe a more socially active form of Buddhism. Originating during the Indochina Wars with Nhat Hanh and the Unified Buddhist Church, adherents of Engaged Buddhism became participants in the war, not against the Americans or the Vietnamese, but against the violence itself, which they saw as unnecessary. They attempted to draw attention to the injustices of the war by placing themselves directly between the lines of battle and even engaging in self immolation.\n\nEngaged Buddhism represents a socially aware non-violent movement within the larger Buddhist community. Inspired by the Buddhist tradition of the Peace Wheel and the teachings of non-violence of Siddhartha Gautama, Engaged Buddhism has since spread to other conflicts in other countries, with groups in Tibet, struggling for self-determination; in Burma and Cambodia, advocating for human rights; in Sri Lanka, promoting the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement; and in India, working with untouchables. The group has also since opened up churches in the Western world.\n\n"}
{"id": "14677318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14677318", "title": "Sixtus Affair", "text": "Sixtus Affair\n\nThe Sixtus Affair () was a failed attempt by Emperor Charles I of Austria to conclude a separate peace with the allies in World War I. The affair was named after his brother-in-law and intermediary, Prince Sixtus of Bourbon-Parma.\n\nIn 1917 the War was dragging on towards its fourth year, and Charles decided to secretly enter into peace negotiations with France. He used his brother-in-law, Prince Sixtus of Bourbon-Parma, an officer in the Belgian army, as intermediary as well as enlisting the help of his loyal childhood friend and aide-de-camp Tamás Erdődy. Charles initiated contact with the Prince via contacts in neutral Switzerland, and Empress Zita wrote a letter inviting him to Vienna. Zita's mother Maria Antonia delivered the letter personally.\nSixtus arrived with French-agreed conditions for talks: the restoration to France of Alsace-Lorraine (annexed by Germany after the Franco-Prussian War in 1870); restoration of the independence of Belgium; independence for the kingdom of Serbia; and the handover of Constantinople to Russia. Charles agreed, in principle, to the first three points and wrote a letter dated 25 March 1917, to Sixtus giving \"the secret and unofficial message that I will use all means and all my personal influence\" to the President of France.\n\nThis attempt at dynastic diplomacy eventually foundered. Germany refused to negotiate over Alsace-Lorraine and, seeing a Russian collapse on the horizon, was loath to give up the war. \n\nIn April 1918, after the German-Russian Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, the Austrian Foreign Minister Count Ottokar von Czernin made a speech attacking the incoming French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau as being the main obstacle to a peace favouring the Central Powers. Clemenceau was incensed and had Emperor Charles' 24 March 1917 letter published. For a while, there were fears that Germany might occupy Austria. Czernin persuaded Charles to send a 'Word of Honour' to Austria's allies saying that Sixtus had not been authorised to show the letter to the French Government, that Belgium had not been mentioned, and that Clemenceau had lied about the mentioning of the Alsace. Czernin had actually been in contact with the German Embassy throughout the whole crisis, and was attempting to persuade the Emperor to step down because of the Affair. After this failed, Czernin resigned himself.\n\nThis affair was an embarrassment to Charles and forced Austria-Hungary into an even more dependent position with regard to its German ally.\n\nFor his role as a peacemaker during 1917-1918, Emperor Charles I of Austria was solemnly declared blessed in a Mass of Beatification on 3 October 2004 by Pope John Paul II.\n"}
{"id": "33667921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33667921", "title": "Stalinist show trial of the Kraków Curia", "text": "Stalinist show trial of the Kraków Curia\n\nThe Stalinist show trial of the Kraków Curia was a public trial of four Roman Catholic priests – members of the Kraków diocesan Curia – including three lay persons, accused by the Communist authorities in the People's Republic of Poland of subversion and spying for the United States. The staged trial, based on the Soviet formula, was held before the Military District Court of Kraków from January 21 to 26, 1953 at a public-event-hall of the Szadkowski Plant. The court, headed by the hardline Stalinist judge Mieczysław Widaj, announced its verdict on January 27, 1953 sentencing to death Father Józef Lelito, Fr. Michał Kowalik, and Fr. Edward Chachlica. The priests were stripped of all civil and constitutional rights, but their death penalties were subsequently not enforced. The remaining defendants were sentenced to sentences ranging from 6 years in prison to life (Fr. Franciszek Szymonek). The fear-inspiring court judgments were endorsed politically by the Resolution of the Polish Writers Union in Kraków on February 8, 1953, signed by many prominent members. A series of similar trials followed.\n\nThe \"war against religion\", in which in the one year of 1950, a total of 123 Roman Catholic priests were thrown in jail, became the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Security of Poland and its 5th Department created in July 1946 specifically for that purpose. Since the late 1940s, it was headed by interrogator Julia Brystiger (née Prajs) who personally directed the operation to arrest and detain the Primate of Poland, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. The department specialized in the persecution and torture of Polish religious personalities. Brystygier, born to a Jewish family in Stryj (now Ukraine), dedicated herself to ideological struggle against all forms of religion. Nicknamed \"Bloody Luna\" by the victims of her torture techniques, Brystygier was responsible for the arrest of 2,000 Jehovah's Witnesses for their religious beliefs.\n\nThe trial was a key element in the subsequent wave of repressions against the Church. First, on February 9, 1953, the communist government issued \"The decree on appointments of clergy to church positions\", assuming total control over the way in which positions in the Church were filled. A month later, on March 8, 1953 the authorities stopped publication of the Catholic weekly \"Tygodnik Powszechny\" in reprisal for its alleged refusal to include a eulogy commemorating the death of Joseph Stalin. The magazine was taken over (until October 1956) by a pro-government secular group \"PAX Association\". Finally, on September 14, 1953, the communist apparatus launched a separate show-trial of Bishop Czesław Kaczmarek, coupled with a series of the so-called \"splinter trials\" of various \"informants\" sentenced to an average of 12–15 years. Kaczmarek, tortured in custody before being forced to sign a confession and admit his guilt, was sentenced to 12 years in prison on September 22, 1953. On September 25, 1953, Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski was arrested. Three days later, on September 28, 1953, a deeply intimidated Catholic Bishops' Conference issued an official condemnation of sabotage against the state. In parallel, the Office of the Council of Ministers (Urząd Rady Ministrów) organized its own ceremony on December 17, 1953, welcoming the \"government-approved\" Bishops, Diocesan administrators (Vicar capitulars), and Suffragans.\n\nA wave of propaganda spin-offs called the \"splinter trials\" was launched against the people associated with the \"Rada Polityczna\" (Political Council) in Western Europe, composed of members of the National Party active during World War II. All captives were accused of espionage, and sentenced to long prison terms. Fr. Józef Fudali who corresponded with former NOW partisan Jan Szponder, was sentenced by the court to 13 years in prison on 13 May 1953. He died two years later in unexplained circumstances during his detention, probably on January 30, 1955. Helena Budziaszek received 15 years. Adam Kowalik was sentenced to 10 years, while his wife Stanisława (sister of Jan Szponder) received 5 years. Irena Haberwas given 12 years in prison. Piotr Kamieniarz got 15 years. His son, Andrzej got 12 years, and his other son Józef, also 12 years. Władysław Meus was given 12 years in prison. Mieczysław Steczko got 15 years and Tadeusz Mirota, 12 years in prison.\n\nAll trials were highly publicized, with daily radio broadcasts, and articles in national newspapers by prominent writers, such as the full-page attack in support of the verdict, by Mrożek, comparing death-row priests to the degenerate SS-men and Ku Klux Klan. Due to wartime annihilation of Warsaw, a large number of Polish writers resided in Kraków in those years.\n\nThe Union of Polish Writers gathering of February 8, 1953 in Kraków, produced a damning statement regarding the Trial of the Curia. The Resolution was signed by 53 members, some of whom went on to become leading figures in Polish literary circles, bestowed with medals and awards.\n\nThe Union of Polish Writers' Resolution in Kraków, of February 8, 1953, was signed by the following:\n\nThe Kraków trial, on the one hand, was the culmination of the Stalinist anti-ecclesiastical offensive; on the other hand, it was also the highest point in an attack led by MBP against the Polish emigration circles. In December 1952, two major operations were concluded by the security forces: one against the remnants of the anti-communist underground (\"Cezary\"), and the other, against its own political opponents (\"Ośrodek\").\n"}
{"id": "44182812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44182812", "title": "The Global Campaign to Return to Palestine", "text": "The Global Campaign to Return to Palestine\n\nThe Global Campaign to Return to Palestine (Arabic: الحملة العالمية للعودة إلى فلسطين) is an umbrella organization for NGOs that support the Palestinian cause, both in the Arab region and the world, and has representatives and partners in over 45 countries around the world to set up events and movements to advocate the Palestinian cause and specially the right of return\n\nFrom the campaign’s perspective, the commemoration of the occasions currently derives its importance from the dangerous reality facing the \"cause\" and affecting it in its core, in a time where the Arab and Islamic concerns have drifted away from the Zionist plans that continue to rob the Palestinians of their rights day after day.\n\nThe Campaign has partners and members in over 45 countries around the world including: Palestine, Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, Yemen, Malaysia, Indonesia, Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt, Scotland, United States, Canada, Venezuela, Chile, Nigeria, Albania and others; and organizes movements and events in support of the Palestinian Cause, with a special focus on the right of return. Therefore, it has chosen the\"Day of Return\" (aka An-Nakba day), on May 15 of each year, as a central occasion to commemorate on the largest scale possible.\n\nThe Campaign held its first preparatory meeting between 14 and 16 April 2013, for initiating the commemoration of the Day of Return, 2013.\n\nIn its organized activities, the campaign tends to depend on personal initiatives and civil society organizations, as well as young volunteers in an attempt to envelop, and properly direct, the enormous energy youngsters hold in the domain of activism for Palestine.\n\n1- Retrieving the Palestinian cause as a central unifying issue.\n\n2- Attracting the utmost possible number of NGOs to join the umbrella organization, in an attempt to harmonize the movements and magnify their effectiveness worldwide.\n\n3- Emphasizing the right of the Palestinian people to return to their homeland.\n\n4- Confirming the right of return as an indisputable claim in the global awareness and standing up against all the attempts that intend to mislay or weaken this right.\n\nThe Global Campaign to Return to Palestine was officially established on the Day of Return, on 15 May 2013, though it had been operating long before. More than 45 events were arranged around the world in affiliation with international NGOs that support the Palestinian Cause. The Campaign issued a statement of establishment and the statement was signed by all participating NGOs' representatives.\n\nOut of the Campaign’s sincere belief in the importance of communication and cooperation among NGOs that support the Palestinian Cause, and in the light of the need for an umbrella organization that facilitates and guarantees such cooperation, the Campaign set up a conference in Beirut, Lebanon, on the Solidarity Day on the 27th, 28th, 29th, of November, 2013. The Conference attracted more than 45 guests from around the world, mostly representatives of international NGOs working for the Palestinian Cause, and was concluded by the establishment of an umbrella organization with the membership of all those present.\n\nThe Global Campaign to Return to Palestine has chosen 15 May as a central occasion to commemorate each year under the name \"The Day of Return\". On this day the Campaign evokes the Palestinian catastrophe (An-Nakba 1948) and what have occurred during it; the horrible massacres, the oppression and persecution of Palestinians, and the land confiscations which resulted in the displacement of more than 840000 Palestinians from their homeland (out of 1.4 million Palestinians at that time).\n\nEvents, conferences, protests, and movements were organized in affiliation with our friends and sister organizations around the world for the commemoration of the \"Day of Return\". The Campaign’s main focus was on the replacement of the term \"Nakba\" (catastrophe) by \"Day of Return\" in an attempt to build a new approach for the occasion that is rather optimistic and triumphant than tragic.\n\nThe Campaign also organized a ‘promotional campaign’ within which flashes about the \"Nakba\" and return were filmed and distributed to TV channels in several languages, in addition to posters that were displayed on billboards in different countries and languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "5051251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5051251", "title": "Walkover", "text": "Walkover\n\nA walkover, also W.O. or w/o (originally two words: \"walk over\") is the awarding of a victory to a contestant because there are no other contestants or the other contestants have been disqualified or have forfeited. The term can apply in sport but also to elections, when it is also referred to as winning \"by default\". The word is used more generally by extension, particularly in politics, for a contest in which the winner is not the only participant but has little or no competition. The narrow and extended meanings of \"walkover\" as a single word are both found from 1829.\n\nThe word originates from horseracing in the United Kingdom, where an entrant in a one-horse race run under Jockey Club rules has at least to \"walk over\" the course before being awarded victory. This outcome was quite common at a time when there was no guaranteed prize money for horses finishing second or third, so there was no incentive to run a horse in a race it could not win. The eighteenth century champion racehorse Eclipse was so dominant over his contemporaries that he was allowed to walk over on nine occasions, and the 1828 Epsom Derby winner Cadland walked over on at least six occasions.\n\nThe term is also used in tennis, in reference to a player's unopposed victory as a result of the opponent's failing to start the match for any reason, such as injury.\n\nThe only Olympic Games walkover for a gold medal was at the 1908 Summer Olympics: Wyndham Halswelle won a rerun of the 400 m race as the two other athletes refused to take part in the rerun. The only time it has happened at the FIFA World Cup was in the 1938 edition, when Austria was annexed by Nazi Germany before the former was scheduled to play Sweden. After the England team declined to take Austria's entry, FIFA gave Sweden a walkover.\n\nA walkover is usually the sign of a very strong mandate or unanimous support. It can, however, be interpreted by critics of the faction the walkover is awarded to as a suspicious sign of electoral fraud or gerrymandering to prevent other candidates from participating. The circumstances of such an interpretation are usually controversial. Walkovers can thus often be a sign of an illiberal democracy.\n\nIn civic organisations and civic societies, where personal charisma and personal politics often dominate, while parties or factions are often interested in a seat, they may not contest a seat that is being held by a long-standing or very popular individual, for fear of being seen as \"rocking the boat\". In elections for these societies, there is often \"pre-election politics\" where candidates attempt to figure out who is running for which positions; in this cat and mouse game, elected positions are thus often effectively decided by internal politics before a single vote is cast.\n\nMany liberal democracies in history, including the United States, have had uncontested elections because support for one candidate was so strong. In the United States presidential elections of 1789 and 1792, George Washington ran uncontested for President, although in the latter election the ballot for the Vice President was contested by both Federalists and Democratic-Republicans. In the 1820 election, James Monroe also ran unopposed, though\nNew Hampshire elector William Plumer cast a vote for John Quincy Adams as a symbolic measure.\n\nElection walkovers are called acclamation in Canada.\n\nOther multi-party systems that have held uncontested presidential elections include Germany, Singapore, Ireland, Algeria, Iceland, and Zimbabwe.\n\nRunning without opponents is not always a guarantee of winning. Many elections require that the winner has not only the most votes of all candidates but a defined fraction of all votes cast, or of the electorate. In this case electors may be able to cast a blank vote or none of the above vote, spoil their papers, or abstain from voting, preventing the one candidate from winning and forcing a new election. In the Philippines, the sole candidate in an uncontested election must have at least one vote in order to win the seat; this is also true in general elections in the United States, and there are cases in local government races where the sole candidate on the ballot finished with zero votes (as almost all U.S. government seats require candidates to reside in the municipality they seek to represent, this means the candidate themselves must, usually out of forgetfulness or lack of time on election day, fail to vote for themselves) and thus lose an uncontested election. In such cases, the other members of the body usually appoint someone to the vacant seat. (This is not true in primary elections.) In theory, if a candidate is unopposed on the ballot but lacks support of their constituency, a draft campaign could outvote the unopposed candidate with any write-in candidate, regardless of whether that write-in name is actively seeking the seat.\n\n”Winning by default” can also happen when there are less candidates than what is required. For example, if a group requires 7 people, and only 4 people go for the role, the candidates may be elected by default.\n\nIn poker games that use blinds, a hand is considered a walkover (usually shortened to \"walk\") when no other players call or raise the big blind, resulting in the player who posted the big blind winning the hand by default. Walks are most often seen in tournament play. Cash games often allow the players to \"split the blinds\" (i.e. take back their blind bets in case there are no callers or raisers by the time the action gets to the small blind), but this is usually not permitted in tournaments.\n"}
{"id": "1796135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796135", "title": "Wayfinding", "text": "Wayfinding\n\nWayfinding encompasses all of the ways in which people (and animals) orient themselves in physical space and navigate from place to place.\n\nThe basic process of wayfinding involves four stages:\n\n\nHistorically, wayfinding refers to the techniques used by travelers over land and sea to find relatively unmarked and often mislabeled routes. These include but are not limited to dead reckoning, map and compass, astronomical positioning and, more recently, global positioning.\n\nWayfinding can also refer to the traditional navigation method used by indigenous peoples of Polynesia. The ancient Polynesians and Pacific Islanders mastered the way of wayfinding to explore and settle on the islands of the Pacific, many using devices such as the Marshall Islands stick chart. With these skills, some of them were even able to navigate the ocean as well as they could navigate their own land. Despite the dangers of being out at sea for a long time, wayfinding was a way of life. Today, The Polynesian Voyaging Society tries-out\nthe traditional Polynesian ways of navigation. In October 2014, the crew of the\nHokuleʻa arrived on another island in Tonga.\n\nRecently, wayfinding has been used in the context of architecture to refer to the user experience of orientation and choosing a path within the built environment. Kevin A. Lynch used the term for his 1960 book \"The Image of the City\", where he defined wayfinding as \"a consistent use and organization of definite sensory cues from the external environment.\"\n\nIn 1984 environmental psychologist Romedi Passini published the full-length \"Wayfinding in Architecture\" and expanded the concept to include the use of signage and other graphic communication, visual clues in the built environment, audible communication, tactile elements, including provisions for special-needs users.\n\nThe wayfinding concept was further expanded in a further book by renowned Canadian graphic designer Paul Arthur, and Romedi Passini, published in 1992, \"Wayfinding: People, Signs and Architecture.\" The book serves as a veritable wayfinding bible of descriptions, illustrations, and lists, all set into a practical context of how people use both signs and other wayfinding cues to find their way in complex environments. There is an extensive bibliography, including information on exiting information and how effective it has been during emergencies such as fires in public places.\n\nWayfinding also refers to the set of architectural or design elements that aid orientation. Today, the term wayshowing, coined by Per Mollerup, is used to cover the act of assisting way finding. describes the difference between wayshowing and way finding, and codifies the nine wayfinding strategies we all use when navigating in unknown territories. However, there is some debate over the importance of using the term wayshowing, some argue that it merely adds confusion to a discipline that is already highly misunderstood.\n\nIn 2010 AHA Press Published \"WAYFINDING FOR HEALTHCARE Best Practices for Today's Facilities\", written by Randy R. Cooper. The book takes a comprehensive view of Wayfinding specifically for those in search of medical care.\n\nWhilst wayfinding applies to cross disciplinary practices including architecture, art and design, signage design, psychology, environmental studies, one of the most recent definitions by Paul Symonds et al. defines wayfinding as \"The cognitive, social and corporeal process and experience of locating, following or discovering a route through and to a given space\". Wayfinding is an embodied and sociocultural activity in addition to being a cognitive process in that wayfinding takes places almost exclusively in social environments with, around and past other peoples and influenced by stakeholders who manage and control the routes through which we try to find our way. The route is often one we might take for pleasure, such as to see a scenic highway, or one we take as a physical challenge such as trying to find the way through a set of underground caves. Wayfinding is a complex practice that very often involves techniques such as people-asking (asking people for directions) and crowd following and is thus a practice that combines psychological and sociocultural processes.\n\nIn addition to the built environment, the concept of wayfinding has also recently been applied to the concept of career development and an individuals attempt to create meaning within context of career identity. This was addressed in late August in the NPR podcast You 2.0: How Silicon Valley Can Help You Get Unstuck.\n\nModern wayfinding has begun to incorporate research on why people get lost, how they react to signage and how these systems can be improved.\n\nAn example of an urban wayfinding scheme is the Legible London Wayfinding system.\n\nNashville, Tennessee has introduced a live music wayfinding plan. Posted outside each live music venue is a guitar pick reading Live Music Venue.\n\nIndoor wayfinding in public buildings such as hospitals is commonly aided by kiosks, indoor maps, and building directories. Such spaces that involve areas outside the normal vocabulary of visitors show the need for a common set of language-independent symbols.\nOffering indoor maps for handheld mobile devices is becoming common, as are digital information kiosk systems. Other frequent wayfinding aids are the use of color coding and signage clustering.\n\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) represented a milestone in helping to make spaces universally accessible and improving wayfinding for users.\n\n"}
{"id": "40435613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40435613", "title": "World Uranium Hearing", "text": "World Uranium Hearing\n\nThe World Uranium Hearing was held in Salzburg, Austria in September 1992. Anti-nuclear speakers from all continents, including indigenous speakers and scientists, testified to the health and environmental problems of uranium mining and processing, nuclear power, nuclear weapons, nuclear tests, and radioactive waste disposal.\n\nPeople who spoke at the 1992 Hearing include: Thomas Banyacya, Katsumi Furitsu, Manuel Pino and Floyd Red Crow Westerman. They said they were deeply dismayed by the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and highlighted what they called the inherently destructive nature of all phases of the nuclear supply chain. They recalled the disastrous impact of nuclear weapons testing in places such as the Nevada Test Site, Bikini Atoll and Eniwetok, Tahiti, Maralinga, and Central Asia. They highlighted the threat of radioactive contamination to all peoples, especially indigenous communities and said that their survival requires self-determination and emphasis on spiritual and cultural values. Increased renewable energy commercialization was advocated.\n\n"}
