{"id": "36640212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36640212", "title": "A History of the University in Europe", "text": "A History of the University in Europe\n\nA History of the University in Europe is a four-volume book series on the history and development of the European university from the medieval origins of the institution until the present day. The series was directed by the European University Association and published by Cambridge University Press between 1992 and 2011. The volumes consist of individual contributions by international experts in the field and is considered the most comprehensive and authoritative work on the subject to date. It has been fully or partly translated into several languages.\n\nThe first volume is dedicated to the emergence of the university in the Middle Ages and its development until around 1500. Volume II describes and analyzes the university from the Reformation until the French Revolution (1500–1800), volume III the rise of the modern university until World War II (1800–1945) and the last volume the post-war period up to the present time.\n\nThe structure of the book follows a standardized systematic pattern throughout all volumes: the first part (\"themes and patterns\") introduces the reader to the university as an institution of its time. The second part deals with the institutional \"structures\" of the university, the third with the \"students\", their education, activities and careers, and the fourth with individual fields of \"learning\" taught in the university. Each section is divided into several chapters which were composed by specialists in the various subjects. The main approach is holistic – the book aims less at covering the history of individual universities, but rather the character and historical trajectory of the institution as a whole.\n\nAs of 2011, the series has been published in full in English and German, while the first volumes have appeared in Spanish and Portuguese and translations into Russian and Chinese are in preparation.\n\nAccording to its editors, the comprehensive scope of \"A History of the University in Europe\" has been rivalled only by one previous multi-volume work, the \"Geschichte der Entstehung und Entwickelung der hohen Schulen unsres Erdtheils\" (\"History of the emergence and development of the higher schools of our continent\") which was published in 1802–05 by the German philosopher Christoph Meiners. In the English-language discourse, the book has been welcomed as an overhaul of Hastings Rashdall's long-time standard work \"The Universities in Europe in the Middle Ages\" and its 1936 revision by the medievalists F. M. Powicke and A. B. Emden.\n\nThe book has received high praise from several reviewers. Edward Grant regards the first part as \"the best single volume on the history of medieval universities\", noting its comprehensiveness, readability and authority produced by competent editorship and \"outstanding contributors\". Susan Rosa believes that this volume \"sets a standard for competency in historical research\", favourably mentioning the collaborative effort which produced little overlap between the various topics. Christopher Ocker lauds the first volume as the \"first attempt at a comprehensive survey of this distinctive European institution, the first thorough survey to span every country from the time of the university's birth to humanism since Rashdall\", but also thinks that the field of medieval science was somewhat neglected. Matthew Kempshall calls the book \"a product of an array of distinguished European scholars\", but feels that it might have gone too far in idealizing the university as a supranational institution transcending state particularisms.\n\nThe volumes of the series are as follows:\n\nThe following lists of universities are – mostly – based on the catalogues compiled in the series:\n"}
{"id": "22950548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22950548", "title": "Annie Altschul", "text": "Annie Altschul\n\nAnnie Altschul, CBE, FRCN (b. 18 February 1919, Vienna – d. 24 December 2001, Edinburgh) was a British nurse, midwife, researcher and educator.\n\nBorn in Vienna, Annie Therese Altschul was five years old when her father was killed in a railway accident. She was studying mathematics at the University of Vienna when she had to leave Austria in 1939, then under Nazi rule. She came to London with her mother, sister and young nephew. Altschul worked first as a \"mother's help\" to learn English before qualifying as a general nurse and midwife. She trained as a nurse for the mentally ill in the early 1940s at the Army mental hospital which had been set up at Mill Hill school in London. Altschul later said that psychiatric nurses \"recruit themselves\" and that \"people who take to psychiatric nursing are different from those who want to be general nurses\". She believed that psychiatric nurses have an \"affinity for the underdog\". (http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/12226461.Annie_Altschul/)\n\nAltschul trained as a nurse and midwife at Epsom County Hospital. In 1946, she became a staff nurse at the Maudsley Hospital, a psychiatric centre. In 1964 Altschul left the Maudsley to be a lecturer in the Department of Nursing Studies at Edinburgh University. Altschul's MSc thesis, entitled 'Measurement of patient-nurse interaction in relation to in-patient psychiatric treatment', was supervised by Elsie Stephenson in 1967. In 1972 Altschul wrote \"Patient-Nurse Interaction\", and in 1976 she became Professor of Nursing Studies, remaining at Edinburgh University until her retirement in 1983.\n\nProf. Altschul observed the effects when patients were moved to smaller accommodations during the redecoration of the large wards at Dingleton mental hospital in the Scottish Borders. She observed that the closer interaction between nurses and patients resulted in less hyperactivity and less need for certain types of\nmedications.\n\n\nShe was appointed CBE in 1983. She established the\nProfessor Annie Altschul Publication Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "18391312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18391312", "title": "Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician", "text": "Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician\n\nThe Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) certification is the first stage of Cisco's certification system. The CCENT certification is an interim step to Associate level or directly with CCNA and CCDA certifications. While the CCENT covers basic networking knowledge; it does not get involved with the more intricate technical aspects of the Cisco routing and switching and network design. The certification does validate the skills essential for entry-level network support positions. CCENT qualified individuals have the knowledge and skill to install, manage, maintain and troubleshoot a small enterprise branch network, including network security. The CCENT curriculum covers networking fundamentals, WAN technologies, basic security, routing and switching fundamentals, and configuring simple networks. The applicable training is Cisco ICND1 (\"Interconnecting Cisco Network Devices, Part 1\") and the exam is (\"100-105\" ICND1), and it costs $165 retail. The certification is valid for 3 years, and professionals may retake the exam to re-certify.\n\n"}
{"id": "1505018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1505018", "title": "Commission on Higher Education (Philippines)", "text": "Commission on Higher Education (Philippines)\n\nThe Commission on Higher Education () of the Philippines, abbreviated as CHED, is a government agency attached to the Office of the President of the Philippines for administrative purposes. It covers both public and private higher education institutions as well as degree-granting programs in all post-secondary educational institutions in the country.\n\nThe CHED was established on May 18, 1994 through Republic Act No. 7722 or the Higher Education Act of 1994 which was authored by Senator Francisco Tatad.\n\nThe creation of CHED was part of a broad agenda for reforms in the country's education system, outlined by the Congressional Commission on Education (EDCOM) in 1992. Part of the reforms is the trifocalization of the education sector. The three governing bodies in the education sector are the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) for tertiary and graduate education, the Department of Education (DepEd) for basic education, and the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) for technical-vocational and middle level education.\n\nThe former chairman of the Commission on Higher Education was Romulo Neri, formerly Director General of the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and Socioeconomic Secretary. Neri was also a former Budget Secretary. Former Chairman Puno was replaced by the President, with Neri appointed to CHED temporarily to conduct a special mission and rehabilitate some of its aspects as part of the projects of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. On July 9, 2008 however, Corazon dela Paz resigned as president and chief executive officer of the Social Security System and the President named Chairman Romulo Neri as head of the SSS. Hence, CHED's post for chairman is now vacant. On August 20, 2008, Manny Angeles was appointed new CHED Chairman, replacing Romulo Neri, and will be taking over acting CHED Chair Nona Ricaforte. Angeles was former chancellor of the Angeles University Foundation and president of the Clark Development Corporation. William Medrano was also appointed commissioner of the CHED on August 29, 2008.\n\nThe Chairman of CHED is also the Chairperson of the Board of Regents of the University of the Philippines System.\n\nCenters of Excellence (COEs) are higher education institutions (HEIs) both public and private which have demonstrated the highest degree or level of standards along the areas of instruction, research and extension of their particular fields or courses. Centers of Development (COD) on the other hand, are educational disciplines which have been considered to significantly improve over the course of the previous year. These provide institutional leadership in all aspects of development in specific areas of discipline in the various regions by providing networking arrangements to help ensure the accelerated development of Higher Educational Institutions in their respective service areas.\nCHED disseminates information by a variety of means. For information specific to a particular institution, a letter is sent to that institution, or an officer is invited to collect it at CHED main office. The institution may then place a copy of the order on one of its own noticeboards, if the order is favorable.\n\nCHED also maintains a website where some of its policy documents are made available.\n\nCHED issues CMOs - CHED Memorandum Orders. These are often of national significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "27645291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27645291", "title": "Denominational education in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Denominational education in the Republic of Ireland\n\nEducation in the Republic of Ireland is mostly denominational at primary and secondary level. That is to say, most schools are associated with a particular religion or Christian denomination. Denominational schools include most national schools at primary level and most voluntary secondary schools, both of which types are publicly funded by the Department of Education. The school's patron or the chair of the board of management will often be a cleric or religious. The denomination influences the ethos, although in subjects other than religion a standard curriculum is prescribed by the Department of Education for all publicly funded schools. Denominational schools can give priority of admission to pupils of the given denomination but not refuse to admit pupils based on religion.\n\nThe continued prominence of denominational education is controversial among advocates of separation of church and state. Since the 1970s Educate Together and other groups have founded multi-denominational schools. In addition, the prevalence of Catholic schools is questioned in light of Ireland's changing demographic profile brought about by secularisation and immigration since the Celtic Tiger. The Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, Diarmuid Martin, has expressed a desire to divest the archidiocese of some of its schools to provide more choice for non-Catholic parents.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the vast majority of the country's primary schools are owned or managed (or both) by religious organisations. In 2007, and of the national total of 3,279 schools, 3039 (92.7%) were controlled by the Catholic Church, 183 (5.6%) were controlled by the Church of Ireland, 0.7% were controlled by other religious organisations while 1% were controlled by organisations which were not affiliated with any particular religion. This system of religious control was instituted according to the Stanley Letter of 1831. Amongst the country's secondary schools, voluntary secondary schools, comprehensive schools and community schools, the majority are again generally controlled by religious organisations.\n\nFintan O'Toole has criticised this aspect of the educational system, as has Seán Flynn, education correspondent of \"The Irish Times\". Former Taoiseach Garret FitzGerald has also criticised the denominational system. The Humanist Association of Ireland, Atheist Ireland and other groups have likewise objected to the denominational system, believing that it introduces artificial divisions within Irish society. The Irish Primary Principals Network conducted a survey that found that 72% of parents wanted primary schools to be managed by the state with all religions given equal opportunity.\n\nIn June 2009 and referring obliquely to the events of Diswellstown the previous year (in which the children of parents who were not catholic church-goers, mostly immigrants to the country, were refused entry to the local primary school, producing a group of largely non-white children who had no school to attend) the Archbishop of Dublin, Diarmuid Martin, said that the current denominational system is \"not tenable\" and that \"the current almost monopoly is a historical hangover that doesn't reflect the realities of the times\" and has called for the Catholic Church to cede control of many schools. As of August 2010, the Catholic Church has yet to cede control of any schools. The Irish Catholic Bishops' Conference, however, supports denominational education, as does The Iona Institute, a small organisation based in Dublin which campaigns upon a range of issues of interest to conservative Catholics.\n\nThere is a small National School partnered with a Secondary School Stratford College in Rathgar, which has a Jewish ethos in Dublin (although the schools now accept children from other denominations due to a dwindling Jewish population). The National/elementary school was set up in 1934 by Rabbi Herzog, as the \"Zion National School\" in Bloomfield Avenue. The Secondary School was set up by the Chief Rabbi Jakobovitz and the Jewish community in the 1950s, initially with classes in the \"Dublin Talmud Torah School\", but in 1953 they ceased with the opening of Stratford College. In 1980 the National School moved to the Stratford College location in Rathgar.\nHowever throughout the years members of the Jewish community attended schools with a Christian ethos such as the Methodist run Wesley College, Dublin, where the future president of Israel Chaim Herzog attended.\n\nWhile Muslims do attend Christian ethos schools or multi-denominational schools, in recent years there has been a growth in the number of Muslim National Schools being established, these are funded by the Department of Education.\nTraditionally Muslim students have attended Christian schools and received Islamic training, separately. There are plans to establish an Islamic secondary school in Dublin.\nThere are also plans to set up an Islamic University in Citywest in Dublin, funded by Saudi Arabia.\n"}
{"id": "14471320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14471320", "title": "District Administration", "text": "District Administration\n\nDistrict Administration is an American monthly trade publication for education leaders in public K-12 school districts. Based out of Norwalk, Connecticut, and published by Professional Media Group LLC, which also publishes \"University Business\" magazine for higher education leaders, it is the only education magazine to reach every superintendent in the country, along with assistant superintendents, technology directors, school board presidents and federal funds administrators, among others.\n\nWith a circulation of nearly 75,000, the magazine covers current trends and pressing issues in the American education system along with coverage of emerging technologies and leadership issues for district-level administrators.\n\nThe online version of the magazine includes a blog forum where education experts debate controversial issues affecting school districts.\n\nIts editor-in-chief is Odvard Egil Dyrli, emeritus professor of education at the University of Connecticut and a technology keynote speaker and workshop leader at national education conferences.\n"}
{"id": "37300533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37300533", "title": "Don't Cry Mommy", "text": "Don't Cry Mommy\n\nDon't Cry Mommy () is a 2012 South Korean crime drama film directed by Kim Yong-han. The story was about a mother's revenge against her daughter's rapists. It premiered at the 2012 Busan International Film Festival before its theatrical release.\n\nThe film was inspired by Kim Bu-Nam case. Director Kim Yong-han said he wanted to raise awareness about sex crimes by charting \"the tragic course of the lives of victims and their families as vividly as possible. Sexual abuse is like devastating a human's soul.\"\n\nRecently divorced, Yoo-lim (Yoo Sun) now lives with her only daughter, Eun-ah (Nam Bo-ra). Upon arriving at her new school, Eun-ah is frequently picked on, though she has feelings for classmate Jo-han (Shin Dongho). One day she is brutally raped by Jo-han and his friends who threaten to upload footage of the rape online to keep her quiet. Unable to cope with the trauma she was forced to endure, Eun-ah takes her own life. As all of the boys involved in the rape are still minors, the law is helpless to prosecute them to the fullest extent possible, and they walk away with little more than a slap on the wrist. Filled with frustration and anger, You-lim sets out to make the boys' lives a living hell. As You-lim's animosity and exasperation is transformed into ever more brutal acts of revenge, she is brought closer and closer to the edge of insanity.\n\n\n2013 Baeksang Arts Awards\n\n2013 Blue Dragon Film Awards\n\nThis movie highlights the prevalence of sexual abuse throughout the world and how it goes unattended by the governments. In the movie, Eun-ah had to go through checks that made her insecure, despite very obvious scars and bruises inflicted onto her, to have the 3 boys released with no penalties, it depicts out the reality of how sexual abuse cases are treated.\n\nThe 3 boys showed no remorse at all after the incident. Despite prompts by the mother after Eun-ah died, they denied what they have done and all 3 stated that she was stupid to have resorted to suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "6213944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6213944", "title": "Education in the Empire of Japan", "text": "Education in the Empire of Japan\n\nEducation in the Empire of Japan was a high priority for the government, as the leadership of the early Meiji government realized the critical need for universal public education in its drive to modernize and westernize Japan. Overseas missions such as the Iwakura Mission were sent abroad to study the education systems of leading Western countries. \n\nDuring the Edo period the common citizens of Japan were given limited means of education. What these low-class citizens did learn was generally geared towards the basic and practical subjects such as reading, writing, and arithmetic. The change came forth during the Meiji period. After sending several learned Japanese representatives to travel abroad, the government was able to learn many aspects of the West, and then from that developed a new process of education for the country. By the late 1860s, the Meiji leaders had established a system that declared equality in education for all as a means by which to help in the process of Japan entering into a more modernized nation. It was required by law that everyone had an obligation to a public education. This was done for the purpose of not only instilling the values of what it meant to be a Japanese citizen, but to also bring about the knowledge necessary for the people to understand how the new nation would work under Western methods. With the change in education there was brought about more opportunities to prosper in the newly evolving and modernizing Japanese nation. Individuals and families moved up in society in ways beyond the freedoms or abilities of their ancestors. As education changed, so too did the range of talents and efforts applied by the Japanese people to enhance their society. \n\nIn 1871, the Ministry of Education was established, with a school system based closely on the American model, which promoted a utilitarian curriculum, but with the centrally-controlled school administration system copied from France. With the aid of foreign advisors, such as David Murray and Marion McCarrell Scott, Normal Schools for teacher education were also created in each prefecture. Other advisors, such as George Adams Leland, were recruited to create specific types of curriculum.\n\nPrivate schools run by Buddhist temples (\"terakoya\") and neighborhood associations were nationalized as elementary schools; feudal domain schools run by \"daimyōs\" became middle schools, and the Tokugawa shogunal Academy became the foundation of Tokyo Imperial University (present day the University of Tokyo).\n\nHowever, they added a new curriculum which emphasized conservative, traditional ideals more reflective of Japanese values. Confucian precepts were stressed, especially those concerning the hierarchical nature of human relations, service to the new Meiji state, the pursuit of learning, and morality. These ideals, embodied in the 1890 Imperial Rescript on Education, along with highly centralized government control over education, largely guided Japanese education until the end of World War II.\n\nIn December, 1885, the cabinet system of government was established, and Mori Arinori became the first Minister of Education of Japan. Mori, together with Inoue Kowashi created the foundation of the Empire of Japan's educational system by issuing a series of orders from 1886. These laws established an elementary school system, middle school system, normal school system and an imperial university system.\n\nElementary school was made compulsory from 1872, and was intended to create loyal subjects of the Emperor. Middle Schools were preparatory schools for students destined to enter one of the Imperial Universities, and the Imperial Universities were intended to create westernized leaders who would be able to direct the modernization of Japan.\n\nWith the increasing industrialization of Japan, demand increased for higher education and vocational training. Inoue Kowashi, who followed Mori as Minister of Education established a state vocational school system, and also promoted women's education through a separate girls' school system.\n\nCompulsory education was extended to six years in 1907. According to the new laws, textbooks could only be issued upon the approval of the Ministry of Education. The curriculum was centered on moral education (mostly aimed at instilling patriotism), mathematics, design, reading and writing, composition, Japanese calligraphy, Japanese history, geography, science, drawing, singing, and physical education. All children of the same age learned each subject from the same series of textbook.\n\nDuring the Taishō and early Shōwa periods, from 1912-1937, the education system in Japan became increasingly centralized. From 1917-1919, the government created the , which issued numerous reports and recommendations on educational reform. One of the main emphases of the Council was in higher education. Prior to 1918, \"university\" was synonymous with \"imperial university\", but as a result of the Council, many private universities obtained officially recognized status. The Council also introduced subsidies for families too poor to afford the tuitions for compulsory education, and also pushed for more emphasis on moral education.\n\nDuring this period, new social currents, including socialism, communism, anarchism, and liberalism exerted influences on teachers and teaching methods. The led to teachers unions and student protest movements against the nationalist educational curriculum. The government responded with increased repression, and adding some influences from the German system in an attempt to increase the patriotic spirit and step up the militarization of Japan. The Imperial Rescript to Soldiers and Sailors became compulsory reading for students during this period.\n\nSpecialized schools for the blind and for the deaf were established as early as 1878, and were regulated and standardized by the government in the Blind, Deaf and Dumb Schools Order of 1926. Blind people were encouraged toward vocations such as massage, acupuncture, physical therapy and piano tuning.\n\nAfter the Manchurian Incident of 1931, the curriculum of the national educational system became increasingly nationalistic and after the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937, the curriculum became increasingly militaristic and was influenced by ultranationalist Education Minister Sadao Araki.\n\nIn 1941, elementary schools were renamed (Translation of German word Volksschule) and students were required to attend vocational training schools on graduation, which mixed vocational and basic military training (for boys) and home economics (for girls). The \"Seinen Gakkō\"　also conducted classes at night for working boys and girls.\n\nNormal schools were renamed , and were often affiliated with a university. The \"Senmon Gakkō\" taught medicine, law, economics, commerce, agricultural science, engineering or business management. The aim of the \"Senmon Gakkō\" was to produce a professional class, rather than intellectual elite. In the pre-war period, all higher school for women were \"Senmon Gakkō\".\n\nAfter the start of the Pacific War in 1941, nationalistic and militaristic indoctrination were further strengthened. Textbooks such as the \"Kokutai no Hongi\" became required reading. The principal educational objective was teaching the traditional national political values, religion and morality. This had prevailed from the Meiji period. The Japanese state modernized organizationally, but preserved its national idiosyncrasies. Emphasis was laid on the Emperor worship cult, and loyalty to the most important values of the nation, and the importance of ancient military virtues.\n\nAfter the surrender of Japan in 1945, the United States Education Missions to Japan in 1946 and again in 1950 under the direction of the American occupation authorities abolished the old educational framework and established the foundation of Japan's post-war educational system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9620", "title": "Education reform", "text": "Education reform\n\nEducation reform is the name given to the goal of changing public education. Historically, reforms have taken different forms because the motivations of reformers have differed. However, since the 1980s, education reform has been focused on changing the existing system from one focused on inputs to one focused on outputs (i.e., student achievement). In the United States, education reform acknowledges and encourages public education as the primary source of K-12 education for American youth. \nThe one constant for all forms of education reform includes the idea that small changes in education will have large social returns in citizen health, wealth and well-being. For example, a stated motivation has been to reduce cost to students and society. From ancient times until the 1800s, one goal was to reduce the expense of a classical education. Ideally, classical education is undertaken with a highly educated full-time (extremely expensive) personal tutor. Historically, this was available only to the most wealthy. Encyclopedias, public libraries and grammar schools are examples of innovations intended to lower the cost of a classical education.\n\nRelated reforms attempted to develop similar classical results by concentrating on \"why\", and \"which\" questions neglected by classical education. Abstract, introspective answers to these questions can theoretically compress large numbers of facts into relatively few principles. This path was taken by some Transcendentalist educators, such as Amos Bronson Alcott.\nIn the early modern age, Victorian schools were reformed to teach commercially useful topics, such as modern languages and mathematics, rather than classical subjects, such as Latin and Greek.\n\nMany reformers focused on reforming society by reforming education on more scientific, humanistic, pragmatic or democratic principles. John Dewey and Anton Makarenko are prominent examples of such reformers. Some reformers incorporated several motivations, e.g. Maria Montessori, who both \"educated for peace\" (a social goal), and to \"meet the needs of the child\" (A humanistic goal). In historic Prussia, an important motivation for the invention of Kindergarten was to foster national unity by teaching a national language while children were young enough that learning a language was easy.\n\nReform has taken many forms and directions. Throughout history and the present day, the meaning and methods of education have changed through debates over what content or experiences result in an educated individual or an educated society. Changes may be implemented by individual educators and/or by broad-based school organization and/or by curriculum changes with performance evaluations.\n\nPlato believed that children would never learn unless they wanted to learn. In \"The Republic\", he said, \" ... compulsory learning never sticks in the mind.\"\nAn educational debate in the time of the Roman Empire arose after Christianity had achieved broad acceptance. The question concerned the educational value of pre-Christian classical thought: \"Given that the body of knowledge of the pre-Christian Romans was heathen in origin, was it safe to teach it to Christian children?\" \n\nThough educational reform occurred on a local level at various points throughout history, the modern notion of education reform is tied with the spread of compulsory education. Education reforms did not become widespread until after organized schooling was sufficiently systematized to be 'reformed.'\n\nIn the modern world, economic growth and the spread of democracy have raised the value of education and increased the importance of ensuring that all children and adults have access to high-quality, effective education. Modern education reforms are increasingly driven by a growing understanding of what works in education and how to go about successfully improving teaching and learning in schools. However, in some cases, the reformers' goals of \"high-quality education\" has meant \"high-intensity education\", with a narrow emphasis on teaching individual, test-friendly subskills quickly, regardless of long-term outcomes, developmental appropriateness, or broader educational goals.\n\nWestern classical education as taught from the 18th to the 19th century has missing features that inspired reformers. Classical education is most concerned with answering the who, what, where, and when? questions that concern a majority of students. Unless carefully taught, group instruction naturally neglects the theoretical \"why\" and \"which\" questions that strongly concern fewer students.\n\nClassical education in this period also did not teach local (vernacular) languages and cultures. Instead it taught high-status ancient languages (Greek and Latin) and their cultures. This produced odd social effects in which an intellectual class might be more loyal to ancient cultures and institutions than to their native vernacular languages and their actual governing authorities.\n\nBefore there were government-funded public schools, education of the lower classes was by the charity school, pioneered in the 19th century by Protestant organizations and adapted by the Roman Catholic Church and governments. Because these schools operated on very small budgets and attempted to serve as many needy children as possible, they were designed to be inexpensive.\n\nThe basic program was to develop \"grammar\" schools. These taught only grammar and bookkeeping. This program permitted people to start businesses to make money, and gave them the skills to continue their education inexpensively from books. \"Grammar\" was the first third of the then-prevalent system of classical education.\nThe ultimate development of the grammar school was by Joseph Lancaster and Andrew Bell who developed the monitorial system. Lancaster started as a poor Quaker in early 19th century London. Bell started the Madras School of India. The monitorial system uses slightly more-advanced students to teach less-advanced students, achieving student-teacher ratios as small as 2, while educating more than a thousand students per adult. Lancaster promoted his system in a piece called Improvements in Education that spread widely throughout the English-speaking world.\n\nDiscipline and labor in a Lancaster school were provided by an economic system. Scrip, a form of money meaningless outside the school, was created at a fixed exchange rate from a student's tuition. Every job of the school was bid-for by students in scrip, with the largest bid winning. However, \"any\" student tutor could auction positions in his or her classes. Besides tutoring, students could use scrip to buy food, school supplies, books, and childish luxuries in a school store. The adult supervisors were paid from the bids on jobs.\n\nWith fully developed internal economies, Lancaster schools provided a grammar-school education for a cost per student near $40 per year in 1999 U.S. dollars. The students were very clever at reducing their costs, and once invented, improvements were widely adopted in a school. For example, Lancaster students, motivated to save scrip, ultimately rented individual pages of textbooks from the school library, and read them in groups around music stands to reduce textbook costs. Students commonly exchanged tutoring, and paid for items and services with receipts from \"down tutoring.\"\n\nLancaster schools usually lacked sufficient adult supervision. As a result, the older children acting as disciplinary monitors tended to become brutal task masters. Also, the schools did not teach submission to orthodox Christian beliefs or government authorities. As a result, most English-speaking countries developed mandatory publicly paid education explicitly to keep public education in \"responsible\" hands. These elites said that Lancaster schools might become dishonest, provide poor education and were not accountable to established authorities.\n\nLancaster's supporters responded that any schoolchild could avoid cheats, given the opportunity, and that the government was not paying for the education, and thus deserved no say in their composition.\n\nLancaster, though motivated by charity, claimed in his pamphlets to be surprised to find that he lived well on the income of his school, even while the low costs made it available to the poorest street-children.\nIronically, Lancaster lived on the charity of friends in his later life.\n\nThe term \"progressive\" in education has been used somewhat indiscriminately; there are a number of kinds of educational progressivism, most of the historically significant kinds peaking in the period between the late 19th and the middle of the 20th centuries.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau has been called the father of the child-study movement. It has been said that Rousseau \"discovered\" the child (as an object of study).\n\nRousseau's principal work on education is \"\", in which he lays out an educational program for a hypothetical newborn's education to adulthood. Rousseau provided a dual critique of both the vision of education set forth in Plato's Republic and also of the society of his contemporary Europe and the educational methods he regarded as contributing to it; he held that a person can either be a man or a citizen, and that while Plato's plan could have brought the latter at the expense of the former, contemporary education failed at both tasks. He advocated a radical withdrawal of the child from society and an educational process that utilized the natural potential of the child and its curiosity, teaching it by confronting it with simulated real-life obstacles and conditioning it by experience rather than teaching it intellectually. His ideas were rarely implemented directly, but were influential on later thinkers, particularly Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and Friedrich Wilhelm August Fröbel, the inventor of the kindergarten.\n\nIn the United States, Horace Mann (1796 – 1859) of Massachusetts used his political base and role as Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education to promote public education in his home state and nationwide. His crusading style attracted wide middle class support. Historian Ellwood P. Cubberley asserts:\n\nEducation is often seen in Europe and Asia as an important system to maintain national, cultural and linguistic unity. Prussia instituted primary school reforms expressly to teach a unified version of the national language, \"Hochdeutsch\". One significant reform was kindergarten, whose purpose was to have the children spend time in supervised activities in the national language, when the children were young enough that they could easily learn new language skills.\n\nSince most modern schools copy the Prussian models, children start school at an age when their language skills remain plastic, and they find it easy to learn the national language. This was an intentional design on the part of the Prussians.\n\nIn the U.S. over the last twenty years, more than 70% of non-English-speaking school-age immigrants have arrived in the U.S. before they were 6 years old. At this age, they could have been taught English in school, and achieved a proficiency indistinguishable from a native speaker. In other countries, such as the Soviet Union, France, Spain, and Germany this approach has dramatically improved reading and math test scores for linguistic minorities.\n\nJohn Dewey, a philosopher and educator based in Chicago and New York, helped conceptualize the role of American and international education during the first four decades of the 20th century. An important member of the American Pragmatist movement, he carried the subordination of knowledge to action into the educational world by arguing for experiential education that would enable children to learn theory and practice simultaneously; a well-known example is the practice of teaching elementary physics and biology to students while preparing a meal. He was a harsh critic of \"dead\" knowledge disconnected from practical human life.\n\nDewey criticized the rigidity and volume of humanistic education, and the emotional idealizations of education based on the child-study movement that had been inspired by Bill Joel and those who followed him. He presented his educational theories as a synthesis of the two views. His slogan was that schools should encourage children to \"Learn by doing.\" He wanted people to realize that children are naturally active and curious. Dewey's understanding of logic is best presented in his \"Logic, the Theory of Inquiry\" (1938). His educational theories were presented in \"My Pedagogic Creed\", \"The School and Society\", \"The Child and Curriculum\", and \"Democracy and Education\" (1916). Bertrand Russell criticized Dewey's conception of logic, saying \"What he calls \"logic\" does not seem to me to be part of logic at all; I should call it part of psychology.\"\n\nThe question of the history of Deweyan educational practice is a difficult one. He was a widely known and influential thinker, but his views and suggestions were often misunderstood by those who sought to apply them, leading some historians to suggest that there was never an actual implementation on any considerable scale of Deweyan progressive education. The schools with which Dewey himself was most closely associated (though the most famous, the \"Laboratory School\", was really run by his wife) had considerable ups and downs, and Dewey left the University of Chicago in 1904 over issues relating to the Dewey School.\n\nDewey's influence began to decline in the time after the Second World War and particularly in the Cold War era, as more conservative educational policies came to the fore.\n\nThe form of educational progressivism which was most successful in having its policies implemented has been dubbed \"administrative progressivism\" by historians. This began to be implemented in the early 20th century. While influenced particularly in its rhetoric by Dewey and even more by his popularizers, administrative progressivism was in its practice much more influenced by the Industrial Revolution and the concept economies of scale.\n\nThe administrative progressives are responsible for many features of modern American education, especially American high schools: counseling programs, the move from many small local high schools to large centralized high schools, curricular differentiation in the form of electives and tracking, curricular, professional, and other forms of standardization, and an increase in state and federal regulation and bureaucracy, with a corresponding reduction of local control at the school board level. (Cf. \"State, federal, and local control of education in the United States\", below) (Tyack and Cuban, pp. 17–26)\n\nThese reforms have since become heavily entrenched, and many today who identify themselves as progressives are opposed to many of them, while conservative education reform during the Cold War embraced them as a framework for strengthening traditional curriculum and standards.\n\nIn more recent times, groups such as the think tank Reform's education division, and S.E.R. have attempted to pressure the government of the U.K. into more modernist educational reform, though this has met with limited success.\n\nFrom the 1950s to the 1970s, many of the proposed and implemented reforms in U.S. education stemmed from the civil rights movement and related trends; examples include ending racial segregation, and busing for the purpose of desegregation, affirmative action, and banning of school prayer.\n\nIn the 1980s, some of the momentum of education reform moved from the left to the right, with the release of \"A Nation at Risk\", Ronald Reagan's efforts to reduce or eliminate the United States Department of Education. \"[T]he federal government and virtually all state governments, teacher training institutions, teachers' unions, major foundations, and the mass media have all pushed strenuously for higher standards, greater accountability, more \"time on task,\" and more impressive academic results\".\n\nThis shift to the right caused many families to seek alternatives, including \"charter schools, progressive schools, Montessori schools, Waldorf schools, Afrocentric schools, religious schools - or teaching them at home and in their communities.\"\n\nIn the latter half of the decade, E. D. Hirsch put forth an influential attack on one or more versions of progressive education, advocating an emphasis on \"cultural literacy\"—the facts, phrases, and texts that Hirsch asserted every American had once known and that now only some knew, but was still essential for decoding basic texts and maintaining communication. Hirsch's ideas remain significant through the 1990s and into the 21st century, and are incorporated into classroom practice through textbooks and curricula published under his own imprint.\n\nMost states and districts in the 1990s adopted Outcome-Based Education (OBE) in some form or another. A state would create a committee to adopt standards, and choose a quantitative instrument to assess whether the students knew the required content or could perform the required tasks. The standards-based National Education Goals (Goals 2000) were set by the U.S. Congress in the 1990s. Many of these goals were based on the principles of outcomes-based education, and not all of the goals were attained by the year 2000 as was intended. The standards-based reform movement culminated in the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, which is still an active nationwide mandate in the United States.\n\nOBE reforms usually had other disputed methods, such as constructivist mathematics and whole language, added onto them. Some proponents advocated replacing the traditional high school diploma with a Certificate of Initial Mastery. Other reform movements were school-to-work, which would require all students except those in a university track to spend substantial class time on a job site. See also Uncommon Schools.\n\nPresident Donald Trump relegated concerns in education to state governments. This began with the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) which limits the role of the federal government in school liability. Giving states more authority can help prevent considerable discrepancies in educational performance across different states. ESSA was approved by former President Obama in 2015 which amended and empowered the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. The Department of Education has the choice to carry out measures in drawing attention to said differences by pinpointing lowest-performing state governments and supplying information on the condition and progress of each state on different educational parameters. It can also provide reasonable funding along with technical aid to help states with similar demographics collaborate in improving their public education programs.\n\nDuring his campaign, Trump criticized the 2010 Common Core States Standard and other cases of “federal government overreach.” His advocacy was to give state and local governments more responsibilities over education policies. Trump appointed Betsy DeVos as education secretary. She also supported the idea of leaving education to state governments under the new K-12 legislation. DeVos cited the interventionist approach of the federal government to education policy following the signing of the ESSA. The primary approach to that rule has not changed significantly. Her opinion was that the education movement's populist politics or populism. encouraged reformers to commit promises which were not very realistic and therefore difficult to deliver.\n\nMany opinion makers say the situation in all American social institutions is the same. These institutions which include government, higher education, healthcare, and mass media are still attuned with the traditional or original economic system. There is a need to upgrade to a digital information economy. More providers of higher education which include colleges and universities, non-traditional entities like school districts, libraries, and museums, and for-profit organizations will surface. All of these stakeholders will reach out to bigger audiences and use similar tools and technologies to achieve their goals. An article released by CBNC.com said a principal Senate Committee will take into account legislation that reauthorizes and modernizes the Carl D. Perkins Act. President George Bush approved this statute in 2006 on August 12, 2006. This new bill will emphasize the importance of federal funding for various Career and Technical (CTE) programs that will better provide learners with in-demand skills. Congress can provide more students with access to pertinent skills in education according to 21st century career opportunities.\n\nAt present, there are many initiatives aimed at dealing with these concerns like innovative cooperation between federal and state governments, educators, and the business sector. One of these efforts is the Pathways to Technology Early College High School (P-TECH). This six-year program was launched in cooperation with IBM, educators from three cities in New York, Chicago, and Connecticut, and over 400 businesses. The program offers students high school and associate programs focusing on the STEM curriculum. The High School Involvement Partnership, private and public venture, was established through the help of Northrop Grumman, a global security firm. It has given assistance to some 7,000 high school students (juniors and seniors) since 1971 by means of one-on-one coaching as well as exposure to STEM areas and careers. In 2016, Time.com published an article mentioning that one way of reenergizing the United States economy is to provide quality education and training opportunities for American youngsters. There is a need to update funding streams for schools at the federal, state, and local levels such as Pell Grants addressing the requirements of college students. The Grant or specific amount of money is given by the government every school year for disadvantaged students who need to pay tuition fees in college.\n\nHigher education in the United States of America has always been regarded as exceptional worldwide although there are apprehensions regarding expensive and quality education, unimpressive completion rates, and increasing student debt. These issues raised doubts as to the effectiveness of the conventional approach to higher education. There have been numerous proposals for federal reforms to enhance the status of higher education in the US. Some of the recommendations included making institutions liable for students/ non-attendance or dropping out of school, changing the obsolete accreditation process in overseeing access to federal subsidies, and allowing access to free education.\n\nThis uses a methodology that values purposeful engagement in activities that turn students into self-reliant and efficient learners. Holding on to the view that everyone possesses natural gifts that are unique to one's personality (e.g. computational aptitude, musical talent, visual arts abilities), it likewise upholds the idea that children, despite their inexperience and tender age, are capable of coping with anguish, able to survive hardships, and can rise above difficult times.\n\nPresident Donald Trump signed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (HR 2353) on July 31, 2018. This is the first law the American president signed that made meaningful amendments to the federal education system. It reauthorizes the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act, a $1.2 billion program modified by the United States Congress in 2006.\n\nLegislators have repeatedly rebuffed the efforts of Trump and education secretary Betsy DeVos to implement school choice programs funded by the federal government. The move to change the Higher Education Act was also deferred. Business and education groups such as the Council of Chief State School Officers as well as the National Governors Association commended the US Congress for its prompt work during the past month. However, some advocacy organizations like Advanced CTE and Association for Career and Technical Education are apprehensive that said law can urge states to set passive laws for Career and Technical Education.\n\nThe new legislation takes effect on July 1, 2019 and takes the place of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education (Perkins IV) Act of 2006. Stipulations in Perkins V enables school districts to make use of federal subsidies for all students' career search and development activities in the middle grades as well as comprehensive guidance and academic mentoring in the upper grades. At the same time, this law updates and magnifies the meaning of \"special populations\" to include homeless persons, foster youth, those who left the foster care system, and children with parents on active duty in the United States armed forces.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, several issues are salient in debates over further education reform:\n\n\nAccording to a 2005 report from the OECD, the United States is tied for first place with Switzerland when it comes to annual spending per student on its public schools, with each of those two countries spending more than $11,000 (in U.S. currency).\nDespite this high level of funding, U.S. public schools lag behind the schools of other rich countries in the areas of reading, math, and science. A further analysis of developed countries shows no correlation between per student spending and student performance, suggesting that there are other factors influencing education. Top performers include Singapore, Finland and Korea, all with relatively low spending on education, while high spenders including Norway and Luxembourg have relatively low performance. One possible factor is the distribution of the funding. In the US, schools in wealthy areas tend to be over-funded while schools in poorer areas tend to be underfunded. These differences in spending between schools or districts may accentuate inequalities, if they result in the best teachers moving to teach in the most wealthy areas. The inequality between districts and schools led to 23 states instituting school finance reform based on adequacy standards that aim to increase funding to low-income districts. A 2018 study found that between 1990 and 2012, these finance reforms led to an increase in funding and test scores in the low income districts; which suggests finance reform is effective at bridging inter-district performance inequalities. It has also been shown that the socioeconomic situation of the students family has the most influence in determining success; suggesting that even if increased funds in a low income area increase performance, they may still perform worse than their peers from wealthier districts.\n\nStarting in the early 1980s, a series of analyses by Eric Hanushek indicated that the amount spent on schools bore little relationship to student learning. This controversial argument, which focused attention on how money was spent instead of how much was spent, led to lengthy scholarly exchanges. In part the arguments fed into the class size debates and other discussions of \"input policies.\" It also moved reform efforts towards issues of school accountability (including No Child Left Behind) and the use of merit pay and other incentives.\n\nThere have been studies that show smaller class sizes and newer buildings (both of which require higher funding to implement) lead to academic improvements. It should also be noted that many of the reform ideas that stray from the traditional format require greater funding.\n\nIt has been shown that some school districts do not use their funds in the most productive way. For example, according to a 2007 article in the \"Washington Post\", the Washington, D.C. public school district spends $12,979 per student per year. This is the third highest level of funding per student out of the 100 biggest school districts in the United States. Despite this high level of funding, the school district provides outcomes that are lower than the national average. In reading and math, the district's students score the lowest among 11 major school districts—even when poor children are compared only with other poor children. 33% of poor fourth graders in the United States lack basic skills in math, but in Washington, D.C., it's 62%. According to a 2006 study by the Goldwater Institute, Arizona's public schools spend 50% more per student than Arizona's private schools. The study also says that while teachers constitute 72% of the employees at private schools, they make up less than half of the staff at public schools. According to the study, if Arizona's public schools wanted to be like private schools, they would have to hire approximately 25,000 more teachers, and eliminate 21,210 administration employees. The study also said that public school teachers are paid about 50% more than private school teachers.\n\nIn 1985 in Kansas City, Missouri, a judge ordered the school district to raise taxes and spend more money on public education. Spending was increased so much, that the school district was spending more money per student than any of the country's other 280 largest school districts.\n\nAccording to a 1999 article, William J. Bennett, former U.S. Secretary of Education, argued that increased levels of spending on public education have not made the schools better, citing the following statistics:\n\nIn the United States, private schools (independent schools) have long been an alternative to public education for those with the ability to pay tuition. These include religious schools, preparatory and boarding schools, and schools based on alternative paradigms such as Montessori education. Over 4 million students, about one in twelve children attend religious schools in the United States, most of them Christian.\nMontessori pre- and primary school programs employ rigorously tested scientific theories of guided exploration which seek to embrace children's natural curiosity rather than, for instance, scolding them for falling out of rank.\n\nHome education is favored by a growing number of parents who take direct responsibility for their children's education rather than enrolling them in local public schools seen as not meeting expectations.\n\nEconomists such as Nobel laureate Milton Friedman advocate school choice to promote excellence in education through competition and choice. A competitive \"market\" for schools eliminates the need to otherwise attempt a workable method of accountability for results. Public education vouchers permit guardians to select and pay any school, public or private, with public funds currently allocated to local public schools. The theory is that children's guardians will naturally shop for the best schools, much as is already done at college level.\n\nThough appealing in theory, many reforms based on school choice have led to slight to moderate improvements—which some teachers' union members see as insufficient to offset the decreased teacher pay and job security. For instance, New Zealand's landmark reform in 1989, during which schools were granted substantial autonomy, funding was devolved to schools, and parents were given a free choice of which school their children would attend, led to moderate improvements in most schools. It was argued that the associated increases in inequity and greater racial stratification in schools nullified the educational gains. Others, however, argued that the original system created more inequity (due to lower income students being required to attend poorer performing inner city schools and not being allowed school choice or better educations that are available to higher income inhabitants of suburbs). Instead, it was argued that the school choice promoted social mobility and increased test scores especially in the cases of low income students. Similar results have been found in other jurisdictions. Though discouraging, the merely slight improvements of some school choice policies often seems to reflect weaknesses in the way that choice is implemented rather than a failure of the basic principle itself.\n\nCritics of teacher tenure claim that the laws protect ineffective teachers from being fired, which can be detrimental to student success. Tenure laws vary from state to state, but generally they set a probationary period during which the teacher proves themselves worthy of the lifelong position. Probationary periods range from one to three years. Advocates for tenure reform often consider these periods too short to make such an important decision; especially when that decision is exceptionally hard to revoke. Due process restriction protect tenured teachers from being wrongfully fired; however these restrictions can also prevent administrators from removing ineffective or inappropriate teachers. A 2008 survey conducted by the US Department of Education found that, on average, only 2.1% of teachers are dismissed each year for poor performance.\n\nIn October 2010 Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs had a consequential meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama to discuss U.S. competitiveness and the nation's education system. During the meeting Jobs recommended pursuing policies that would make it easier for school principals to hire and fire teachers based on merit.\n\nIn 2012 tenure for school teachers was challenged in a California lawsuit called \"Vergara v. California\". The primary issue in the case was the impact of tenure on student outcomes and on equity in education. On June 10, 2014, the trial judge ruled that California's teacher tenure statute produced disparities that \" shock the conscience\" and violate the equal protection clause of the California Constitution. On July 7, 2014, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan commented on the \"Vergara\" decision during a meeting with President Barack Obama and representatives of teacher's unions. Duncan said that tenure for school teachers \"should be earned through demonstrated effectiveness\" and should not be granted too quickly. Specifically, he criticized the 18-month tenure period at the heart of the \"Vergara\" case as being too short to be a \"meaningful bar.\"\n\nA study by the Fordham Institute found that some labor agreements with teachers' unions may restrict the ability of school systems to implement merit pay and other reforms. Contracts were more restrictive in districts with high concentrations of poor and minority students. The methodology and conclusions of the study have been criticized by teachers' unions.\n\nAnother barrier to reform is assuming that schools are like businesses—when in fact they are very different.\n\nLegal barriers to reform are low in the United States compared to other countries: State and local governance of education creates \"wiggle room for educational innovators\" who can change local laws or move somewhere more favourable. Cultural barriers to reform are also relatively low, because the question of who should control education is still open.\n\nThere are factors that can impede innovations in K-12 education. One could be “Site-Based Decision Making Councils” composed of teachers and some parents who vote on school rules and regulations, adoption of curriculum, hiring of new mentors, and other related matters. There are times attendance in meetings is not adequate or stakeholders are not represented properly. The belief is small meetings attended by a few individuals may not be ideal for innovation. Turnover of teachers is another possible hindrance to such innovations. The learning process is adversely affected because of frequent teacher resignations and replacements. Constant changing of mentors leads to waste of resources and dormant thinking influenced by policies, systems, and traditions.\n\nEducation 2030 Agenda refers to the global commitment of the Education for All movement to ensure access to basic education for all. It is an essential part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The roadmap to achieve the Agenda is the Education 2030 Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action, which outlines how countries, working with UNESCO and global partners, can translate commitments into action.\n\nThe United Nations, over 70 ministers, representatives of member-countries, bilateral and multilateral agencies, regional organizations, academic institutions, teachers, civil society, and the youth supported the Framework for Action of the Education 2030 platform. The Framework was described as the outcome of continuing consultation to provide guidance for countries in implementing this Agenda. At the same time, it mobilizes various stakeholders in the new education objectives, coordination, implementation process, funding, and review of Education 2030.\n\nIn other parts of the world, educational reform has had a number of different meanings. In Taiwan in the 1990s and first decade of the 21st century a movement tried to prioritize reasoning over mere facts, reduce the emphasis on central control and standardized testing. There was consensus on the problems. Efforts were limited because there was little consensus on the goals of educational reforms, and therefore on how to fix the problems. By 2003, the push for education reform had declined.\n\nEducation reform has been pursued for a variety of specific reasons, but generally most reforms aim at redressing some societal ills, such as poverty-, gender-, or class-based inequities, or perceived ineffectiveness. Current education trends in the United States represent multiple achievement gaps across ethnicities, income levels, and geographies. As McKinsey and Company reported in a 2009 analysis, “These educational gaps impose on the United States the economic equivalent of a permanent national recession.” Reforms are usually proposed by thinkers who aim to redress societal ills or institute societal changes, most often through a change in the education of the members of a class of people—the preparation of a ruling class to rule or a working class to work, the social hygiene of a lower or immigrant class, the preparation of citizens in a democracy or republic, etc. The idea that all children should be provided with a high level of education is a relatively recent idea, and has arisen largely in the context of Western democracy in the 20th century.\n\nThe \"beliefs\" of school districts are optimistic that quite literally \"all students will succeed\", which in the context of high school graduation examination in the United States, all students in all groups, regardless of heritage or income will pass tests that in the introduction typically fall beyond the ability of all but the top 20 to 30 percent of students. The claims clearly renounce historical research that shows that all ethnic and income groups score differently on all standardized tests and standards based assessments and that students will achieve on a bell curve. Instead, education officials across the world believe that by setting clear, achievable, higher standards, aligning the curriculum, and assessing outcomes, learning can be increased for all students, and more students can succeed than the 50 percent who are defined to be above or below grade level by norm referenced standards.\n\nStates have tried to use state schools to increase state power, especially to make better soldiers and workers. This strategy was first adopted to unify related linguistic groups in Europe, including France, Germany and Italy. Exact mechanisms are unclear, but it often fails in areas where populations are culturally segregated, as when the U.S. Indian school service failed to suppress Lakota and Navaho, or when a culture has widely respected autonomous cultural institutions, as when the Spanish failed to suppress Catalan.\n\nMany students of democracy have desired to improve education in order to improve the quality of governance in democratic societies; the necessity of good public education follows logically if one believes that the quality of democratic governance depends on the ability of citizens to make informed, intelligent choices, and that education can improve these abilities.\n\nPolitically motivated educational reforms of the democratic type are recorded as far back as Plato in \"The Republic\". In the United States, this lineage of democratic education reform was continued by Thomas Jefferson, who advocated ambitious reforms partly along Platonic lines for public schooling in Virginia.\n\nAnother motivation for reform is the desire to address socio-economic problems, which many people see as having significant roots in lack of education. Starting in the 20th century, people have attempted to argue that small improvements in education can have large returns in such areas as health, wealth and well-being. For example, in Kerala, India in the 1950s, increases in women's health were correlated with increases in female literacy rates. In Iran, increased primary education was correlated with increased farming efficiencies and income. In both cases some researchers have concluded these correlations as representing an underlying causal relationship: education causes socio-economic benefits. In the case of Iran, researchers concluded that the improvements were due to farmers gaining reliable access to national crop prices and scientific farming information.\n\nReforms can be based on bringing education into alignment with a society's core values. Reforms that attempt to change a society's core values can connect alternative education initiatives with a network of other alternative institutions.\n\nThe movement to use computers more in education naturally includes many unrelated ideas, methods, and pedagogies since there are many uses for digital computers. For example, the fact that computers are naturally good at math leads to the question of the use of calculators in math education. The Internet's communication capabilities make it potentially useful for collaboration, and foreign language learning. The computer's ability to simulate physical systems makes it potentially useful in teaching science. More often, however, debate of digital education reform centers around more general applications of computers to education, such as electronic test-taking and online classes.\n\nThe idea of creating artificial intelligence led some computer scientists to believe that teachers could be replaced by computers, through something like an expert system; however, attempts to accomplish this have predictably proved inflexible. The computer is now more understood to be a tool or assistant for the teacher and students.\n\nHarnessing the richness of the Internet is another goal. In some cases classrooms have been moved entirely online, while in other instances the goal is more to learn how the Internet can be more than a classroom.\n\nWeb-based international educational software is under development by students at New York University, based on the belief that current educational institutions are too rigid: effective teaching is not routine, students are not passive, and questions of practice are not predictable or standardized. The software allows for courses tailored to an individual's abilities through frequent and automatic multiple intelligences assessments. Ultimate goals include assisting students to be intrinsically motivated to educate themselves, and aiding the student in self-actualization. Courses typically taught only in college are being reformatted so that they can be taught to any level of student, whereby elementary school students may learn the foundations of any topic they desire. Such a program has the potential to remove the bureaucratic inefficiencies of education in modern countries, and with the decreasing digital divide, help developing nations rapidly achieve a similar quality of education. With an open format similar to Wikipedia, any teacher may upload their courses online and a feedback system will help students choose relevant courses of the highest quality. Teachers can provide links in their digital courses to webcast videos of their lectures. Students will have personal academic profiles and a forum will allow students to pose complex questions, while simpler questions will be automatically answered by the software, which will bring you to a solution by searching through the knowledge database, which includes all available courses and topics.\n\nThe 21st century ushered in the acceptance and encouragement of internet research conducted on college and university campuses, in homes, and even in gathering areas of shopping centers. Addition of cyber cafes on campuses and coffee shops, loaning of communication devices from libraries, and availability of more portable technology devices, opened up a world of educational resources. Availability of knowledge to the elite had always been obvious, yet provision of networking devices, even wireless gadget sign-outs from libraries, made availability of information an expectation of most persons. Cassandra B. Whyte researched the future of computer use on higher education campuses focusing on student affairs. Though at first seen as a data collection and outcome reporting tool, the use of computer technology in the classrooms, meeting areas, and homes continued to unfold. The sole dependence on paper resources for subject information diminished and e-books and articles, as well as on-line courses, were anticipated to become increasingly staple and affordable choices provided by higher education institutions according to Whyte in a 2002 presentation.\n\nDigitally \"flipping\" classrooms is a trend in digital education that has gained significant momentum. Will Richardson, author and visionary for the digital education realm, points to the not-so-distant future and the seemingly infinite possibilities for digital communication linked to improved education. Education on the whole, as a stand-alone entity, has been slow to embrace these changes. The use of web tools such as wikis, blogs, and social networking sites is tied to increasing overall effectiveness of digital education in schools. Examples exist of teacher and student success stories where learning has transcended the classroom and has reached far out into society.\n\nCreativity is of the utmost importance when improving education. The \"creative teachers\" must have the confidence through training and availability of support and resources. These creative teachers are strongly encouraged to embrace a person-centered approach that develops the psychology of the educator ahead or in conjunction with the deployment of machines. Creative teachers have been also been inspired through Crowd-Accelerated Innovation. Crowd-Accelerated Innovation has pushed people to transition between media types and their understanding thereof at record-breaking paces. This process serves as a catalyst for creative direction and new methods of innovation. Innovation without desire and drive inevitably flat lines.\n\nMainstream media continues to be both very influential and the medium where Crowd-Accelerated Innovation gains its leverage. Media is in direct competition with formal educational institutions in shaping the minds of today and those of tomorrow. [Buchanan, Rachel footnote] The media has been instrumental in pushing formal educational institutions to become savvier in their methods. Additionally, advertising has been (and continues to be) a vital force in shaping students and parents thought patterns.\n\nTechnology is a dynamic entity that is constantly in flux. As time presses on, new technologies will continue to break paradigms that will reshape human thinking regarding technological innovation. This concept stresses a certain disconnect between teachers and learners and the growing chasm that started some time ago. Richardson asserts that traditional classroom's will essentially enter entropy unless teachers increase their comfort and proficiency with technology.\n\nAdministrators are not exempt from the technological disconnect. They must recognize the existence of a younger generation of teachers who were born during the Digital Age and are very comfortable with technology. However, when old meets new, especially in a mentoring situation, conflict seems inevitable. Ironically, the answer to the outdated mentor may be digital collaboration with worldwide mentor webs; composed of individuals with creative ideas for the classroom.\n\nAnother viable addition to digital education has been blended learning. In 2009, over 3 million K-12 students took an online course, compared to 2000 when 45,000 took an online course. Blended learning examples include pure online, blended, and traditional education. Research results show that the most effective learning takes place in a blended format. This allows children to view the lecture ahead of time and then spend class time practicing, refining, and applying what they have previously learned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32181246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181246", "title": "Educational Policy", "text": "Educational Policy\n\nEducational Policy is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of education policy. The editor-in-chief is Ana M. Martinez Aleman (Boston College). The journal was established in 1987 and is published by Sage Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 1.586, ranking it 93 out of 238 journals in the category \"Education and Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "6134225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6134225", "title": "Eliza Agnew", "text": "Eliza Agnew\n\nEliza Agnew (February 2, 1807 – June 14, 1883) was an American Presbyterian missionary. She was born in New York City to James and Jane Agnew.\n\nOn December 28, 1823, at a revival meeting at the Orange Street Presbyterian Church, she converted to Christianity. She was educated in and lived in New York City for nearly 32 years, devoting her service to the home, to the \"Sabbath-school\", and in the distribution of Scripture and tracts. After her parents died, she secured appointment to the Ceylon Mission of the American Board of Boston in 1839. She sailed from Boston, Massachusetts to Jaffna, Ceylon (Sri Lanka as of 1972), aboard the \"Black Warrior\". She served as teacher for 42 years without furlough in the Female Boarding School in Uduvil, just north of Jaffna, Ceylon. \"The Missionary Herald\" (September, 1863) rewarded her pioneering efforts in Ceylon towards helping girls and women with the following quote: \"It is largely owing to the work she was permitted to do that female education is more advanced here (Ceylon) than in almost any other heathen land.\" She was a woman of prayer, concerned with the spiritual welfare of her students. Of one thousand people of three generations under her influence, six hundred adopted to Christianity. She visited and assisted graduates and ex-pupils with home economics and spiritual affairs. Then she resigned as principal of the school in 1879 and moved to Manepay, just west of the school. She resided in the home of Misses M. and M.W. Leitch, American Board missionaries in Manipai. She died from a paralytic stroke in June 1883 and was buried in Oodooville near the school over which she presided.\n\n"}
{"id": "27717748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27717748", "title": "Extended school time", "text": "Extended school time\n\nExtended school time is a proposal in the United States for increasing the number of mandatory hours per week that students spend at school.\n\nThe 1983 report by the U.S. National Commission on Excellence in Education, \"A Nation at Risk\", suggested that expectations, content, and time needed to be improved in American education. Since then increasing the amount of time in school became a hot topic, and for the past few years, the proposal saw a resurgence of interest in response to No Child Left Behind, with dozens of proposals around the nation to extend the school year. In December 2009, President Obama proposed that American school children extend their time in class, either by lengthening the school day or the school year. \n\nA July 2010 \"Time\" magazine article has a chart showing that students in the United States have the highest total yearly instructional hours of those nations listed. \n\nVarious studies have yielded widely different results in regard to the correlation between school time and academic achievement. Massachusetts 2020 and its national affiliate, the National Center on Time & Learning, are resources for an enlarging group of states and districts that are exploring expanded learning time—several of which, including Oklahoma, Alabama, and Rhode Island, have launched new initiatives in 2010. In 2006, Massachusetts 2020 worked with state leaders in Massachusetts to spearhead the Massachusetts Expanded Learning Time Initiative, the first-in-the-nation statewide initiative to expand the school day. In 2010-2011, 19 schools in 10 school districts will have schedules increase learning time by 300 hours across the school year.\n\nResearch suggests that expanding instructional time is as effective as other commonly discussed educational interventions intended to boost learning, such as increasing teacher quality and reducing class size. It also suggests that the added high-quality teaching time particularly benefits certain groups of students, such as low-income students and others who have little opportunity for learning outside of school. Researchers caution that not all time in school is equal. The correlation between time and achievement increases exists only when students are given more instructional time and academic learning time. Other researchers conclude that more time spent in the classroom will have little impact on academic achievement if it isn't accompanied by other education reforms. They show that the key to student learning gains is the quality of the teacher, not the amount of time spent in school. Some homeschooler families are objective of the proposal on the basis that longer school time takes more away from family time. Cost is another major factor; though like per pupil costs, hard to generalize across states, due to differences in geography, cost-of-living costs, right-to-work vs. union states, etc. In 1990, cost estimates ranged from $2.3 to $121.4 million per day, depending on the state. In addition,advocates for a return to a later, more traditional start to the school day caution that extending school time by beginning the day even earlier in the morning can be counterproductive and even unhealthy, interfering with the sleep needs of middle and high school students in the many schools where the first bell already rings in the 7 a.m. hour and bus runs start at 5:30 or 6 a.m.--a practice that has become increasingly common since the 1970s. \n\n"}
{"id": "39345027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39345027", "title": "Florence Blake", "text": "Florence Blake\n\nFlorence Guinness Blake (November 30, 1907 - September 12, 1983) was an American nurse, professor and author who made significant contributions to pediatric nursing and to family-centered nursing care. Blake wrote her classic text, \"The Child, His Parents and the Nurse\", in 1954. She co-authored two other pediatric nursing textbooks, \"Essentials of Pediatric Nursing\" and \"Nursing Care of Children\". She was on the nursing faculty at several American universities. She was posthumously honored with induction into the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame.\n\nFlorence Blake was born on November 30, 1907. She was the daughter of musician Thelma Dunlap Blake and minister James Blake. She graduated from the Michael Reese Hospital School of Nursing in 1928. She completed an undergraduate degree from Columbia University in 1936. After teaching pediatric nursing in China for several years, she earned a master's degree from the University of Michigan in 1941. Beginning in the 1940s, Blake headed the graduate program in advanced pediatric nursing at the University of Chicago.\n\nBlake's 1954 book, \"The Child, His Parents and the Nurse\", highlighted the importance of parent-child relationships and parental involvement in the medical care of children. In a review published in the \"Yale Journal of Biology and Medicine\", Morris Green wrote that the book represented the first textbook that attempted to provide comprehensive nursing knowledge on child care. Green wrote that \"the emphasis is not limited to technical procedures and disease processes (disease-oriented care) but broadened to include a better understanding of the needs of children and parents (patient-oriented care) in health as well as disease.\"\n\nBlake led the advanced pediatric nursing graduate program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison between 1963 and her retirement in 1970. She died on September 12, 1983. Blake was inducted into the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "43357647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43357647", "title": "History of schools in Scotland", "text": "History of schools in Scotland\n\nThe history of schools in Scotland includes the development of all schools as institutions and buildings in Scotland, from the early Middle Ages to the present day. From the early Middle Ages there were bardic schools, that trained individuals in the poetic and musical arts. Monasteries served as major repositories of knowledge and education, often running schools. In the High Middle Ages, new sources of education arose including choir and grammar schools designed to train priests. Benedictine and Augustinian foundations probably had charitable almonry schools to educate young boys, who might enter the priesthood. Some abbeys opened their doors to teach the sons of gentlemen. By the end of the Middle Ages, grammar schools could be found in all the main burghs and some small towns. In rural areas there were petty or reading schools that provided an elementary education. Private tuition in the families of lords and wealthy burghers sometimes developed into \"household schools\". Girls of noble families were taught in nunneries and by the end of the fifteenth century Edinburgh also had schools for girls, sometimes described as \"sewing schools\". There is documentary evidence for about 100 schools of these different kinds before the Reformation. The growing humanist-inspired emphasis on education cumulated with the passing of the Education Act 1496.\n\nAfter the Protestant party became dominant in 1560, the \"First Book of Discipline\" set out a plan for a school in every parish, but this proved financially impossible. In the burghs the existing schools were largely maintained, with the song schools and a number of new foundations becoming reformed grammar schools or ordinary parish schools. There were also large number of unregulated private \"adventure schools\". Girls were only admitted to parish schools when there were insufficient numbers of boys to pay an adequate living for schoolmasters. In the lower ranks of society, girls benefited from the expansion of the parish schools system that took place after the Reformation, but were usually outnumbered by boys and often taught separately, for a shorter time and to a lower level. Acts in 1616, 1633, 1646, and 1696 obliged local landowners (heritors) to provide a schoolhouse and pay a schoolmaster, known in Scotland as a dominie, while ministers and local presbyteries oversaw the quality of the education. By the late seventeenth century there was a largely complete network of parish schools in the Lowlands, but in the Highlands basic education was still lacking in many areas.\n\nIn the eighteenth century, wealth from the Agricultural Revolution led to a programme of extensive rebuilding of schools. Many poorer girls were being taught in dame schools, informally set up by a widow or spinster to teach reading, sewing and cooking. Literacy rates were lower in the Highlands than in comparable Lowland rural society, and despite these efforts illiteracy remained prevalent into the nineteenth century. With urbanisation and population growth the kirk established 214 \"assembly schools\" by 1865. There were also 120 \"sessional schools\", mainly established by kirk sessions in towns and aimed at the children of the poor. The Disruption of 1843, which created the breakaway Free Church of Scotland, fragmented the kirk school system. By May 1847 it was claimed that 500 schools had been built, along with two teacher training colleges and a ministerial training college. The influx of large numbers of Irish immigrants in the nineteenth century led to the establishment of Catholic schools. Attempts to supplement the parish system included Sunday schools, mission schools, ragged schools, Bible societies and improvement classes. The ragged school movement attempted to provide free education to destitute children. Andrew Bell pioneered the Monitorial System, which developed into the pupil-teacher system of training. In contrast David Stow, advocated the \"Glasgow method\", which centred on trained adult teachers. Scottish schoolmasters gained a reputation for strictness and frequent use of the tawse.\n\nThe 1872 Education (Scotland) Act created approximately 1,000 regional School Boards, which immediately took over the schools of the old and new kirks. The emphasis on a set number of passes at exams also led to much learning by rote and the system of inspection led to even the weakest children being drilled with certain facts. The 1918 Education (Scotland) Act introduced the principle of universal free secondary education. Most of the advanced divisions of the primary schools became junior secondaries, while the old academies and Higher Grade schools became senior secondaries. Increasing numbers stayed on beyond elementary education and the leaving age was eventually raised to 16 in 1973. As a result, secondary education was the major area of growth, particularly for girls. New qualifications were developed to cope with changing aspirations. In the 1980s the curriculum was reformed to take account of the whole range of abilities. Gender differences disappeared as girls' attainment caught up with boys in the early 1980s.\n\nFrom the early Middle Ages there were bardic schools, that trained individuals in the poetic and musical arts, but because Scotland was a largely oral society, little evidence of what they taught has survived. The establishment of Christianity from the sixth century brought Latin to Scotland as a scholarly and written language. In the early Middle Ages monasteries served as major repositories of knowledge and education, often running schools and providing a small, educated and overwhelmingly male, elite, who were essential to create and read documents in a largely illiterate society.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, new sources of education arose. Choir and grammar schools were designed to train priests, with an emphasis respectively on music and Latin grammar. The reorganisation of the church that began in the reign of David I (1124–53) gave the church a clearer diocesan and parochial structure, meaning that the seats of sheriffdoms like Perth received schools that were usually under monastic patrons. Early examples of grammar schools include the High School of Glasgow in 1124 and the High School of Dundee in 1239. These were usually attached to cathedrals or a collegiate church. The newly created diocesan chancellors may have had authority over cathedral schools and schoolmasters within their diocese.\n\nThe new religious orders that became a major feature of Scottish monastic life in this period also brought new educational possibilities and the need to train larger numbers of monks. Benedictine and Augustinian foundations probably had almonry schools, charity schools using funds from the almoner to provide a type of bursary to educate young boys, who might enter the priesthood. At the Cluniac Paisley Abbey, secular chaplains were employed as schoolmasters. Some monasteries, including the Cistercian abbey at Kinloss, Sweetheart Abbey and Beauly, opened their doors to a wider range of students to teach the sons of gentlemen. St Andrews, which was both the seat of a bishop and the site of a major Augustinian foundation, had both a grammar school, under the archdeacon, and a song school, under the priory.\n\nThe number and size of song and grammar schools seems to have expanded rapidly from the 1380s. The foundation of over 100 collegiate churches of secular priests between 1450 and the Reformation would have necessitated the training of large numbers of choristers. Sometimes, as at Lochwinnoch, they were taught both music and grammar. Dominican friars were noted for their educational achievements and were usually located in urban centres, probably teaching grammar, as at Glasgow and Ayr. By the end of the Middle Ages, grammar schools could be found in all the main burghs and some small towns.\n\nEducational provision was probably much weaker in rural areas, but there were petty or reading schools in rural areas that provided an elementary education. There was also the development of private tuition in the families of lords and wealthy burghers. Sometimes these developed into \"household schools\", that may also have catered to farming neighbours and kin, as well as the sons of the laird's household, which is known to have happened at Huntly. All these schools were almost exclusively aimed at boys. Girls of noble families were taught in nunneries such as Elcho, Aberdour and Haddington. By the end of the fifteenth century Edinburgh also had schools for girls, sometimes described as \"sewing schools\", whose name probably indicates one of their major functions, although reading may also have been taught in these schools. The students were probably taught by a combination of lay women and nuns.\n\nThere is documentary evidence for about 100 schools of these different kinds before the Reformation. Most of the schoolmasters of these schools were clergy, and also chaplains of religious foundations, hospitals or private chaplains of noblemen, which they probably undertook in order to supplement merge incomes. To some extent, all education was controlled by different branches of the church, but towards the end of the period there was an increasing lay interest. This sometimes resulted in conflict, as between the burgh of Aberdeen and the cathedral chancellor, when the former appointed a lay graduate as schoolmaster in 1538, and when a married man was appointed to the similar post in Perth. Education began to widen beyond the training of the clergy, particularly as lay lawyers began to emerge as a profession, with a humanist emphasis on educating the future ruling class for their duties. The growing humanist-inspired emphasis on education cumulated with the passing of the Education Act 1496, thought to have been steered through parliament by the Keeper of the Privy Seal William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen, which decreed that all sons of barons and freeholders of substance should attend grammar schools to learn \"perfyct Latyne\". All this resulted in an increase in literacy, which was largely concentrated among a male and wealthy elite, with perhaps 60 per cent of the male nobility being literate by the end of the period.\n\nThe humanist concern with increasing public access to education was shared by the Protestant reformers, who saw schools as vehicles for the provision of moral and religious education for a more godly society. After the Protestant party became dominant in 1560, the \"First Book of Discipline\" set out a plan for a school in every parish, but this proved financially impossible. In the burghs the existing schools were largely maintained, with the song schools and a number of new foundations becoming reformed grammar schools or ordinary parish schools. Schools were supported by a combination of kirk funds, contributions from local heritors or burgh councils and parents that could pay. They were inspected by kirk sessions of local elders, which checked for the quality of teaching and doctrinal purity. There were also large number of unregulated private \"adventure schools\". These were often informally created by parents in agreement with unlicensed schoolmasters, using available buildings and are chiefly evident in the historical record through complaints and attempts to suppress them by kirk sessions because they took pupils away from the official parish schools. However, such private schools were often necessary given the large populations and scale of some parishes. They were often tacitly accepted by the church and local authorities and may have been particularly important to girls and the children of the poor. Outside of the established burgh schools, which were generally better funded and more able to pay schoolmasters, masters often combined their position with other employment, particularly minor posts within the kirk, such as clerk. Immediately after the Reformation they were in short supply, but there is evidence that the expansion of the university system provided large numbers of graduates by the seventeenth century. There is evidence of about 800 schools for the period between 1560 and 1633. The parish schools were \"Inglis\" schools, teaching in the vernacular and taking children to the age of about 7, while the grammar schools took boys to about 12. At their best in the grammar schools, the curriculum included the catechism, Latin, French, Classical literature and sports.\n\nThe widespread belief in the limited intellectual and moral capacity of women came into conflict with a desire, intensified after the Reformation, for women to take greater personal moral responsibility, particularly as wives and mothers. In Protestantism this necessitated an ability to learn and understand the catechism and even to be able to independently read the Bible, but most commentators of the period, even those that tended to encourage the education of girls, thought they should not receive the same academic education as boys. Girls were only admitted to parish schools when there were insufficient numbers of boys to pay an adequate living for schoolmasters. In the lower ranks of society, girls benefited from the expansion of the parish schools system that took place after the Reformation, but were usually outnumbered by boys and often taught separately, for a shorter time and to a lower level. Girls were frequently taught reading, sewing and knitting, but not writing. Among the nobility there were many educated and cultured women, such as Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nIn 1616 an act in Privy council commanded every parish to establish a school \"where convenient means may be had\". After the Parliament of Scotland ratified this law and the Education Act of 1633, a tax on local landowners was introduced to provide the necessary endowment. From 1638 Scotland underwent a \"second Reformation\", with widespread support for a National Covenant, objecting to the Charles I's liturgical innovations and reaffirming the Calvinism and Presbyterianism of the kirk. After the Bishop's Wars (1639–40), Scotland had virtual independence from the government in Westminster. Education remained fundamental to the ideas of the Covenanters. A loophole which allowed evasion of the education tax was closed in the Education Act of 1646, which established a solid institutional foundation for schools on Covenanter principles, emphasising the role of presbyteries in supervision. Although the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 brought a reversal to the 1633 position, in 1696 new legislation restored the provisions of 1646 together with means of enforcement \"more suitable to the age\" and underlined the aim of having a school in every parish. In rural communities these acts obliged local landowners (heritors) to provide a schoolhouse and pay a schoolmaster, known in Scotland as a dominie, while ministers and local presbyteries oversaw the quality of the education. In many Scottish towns, burgh schools were operated by local councils. Some wealthy individuals established \"hospitals\", boarding schools for deserving pupils, such as George Heriot's Hospital, Edinburgh, which was founded in 1628 and whose impressive building was opened in 1656 for 180 boys. By the late seventeenth century there was a largely complete network of parish schools in the Lowlands, but in the Highlands basic education was still lacking in many areas.\n\nHospitals continued to be built by benefactors and some of these had very impressive buildings, like that of Robert Gordon's Hospital in Aberdeen, which was designed by William Adam (1689–1748) in the 1730s. Until the late eighteenth century most schools buildings were indistinguishable from houses, but the wealth from the Agricultural Revolution led to a programme of extensive rebuilding. Most schools had a single schoolroom, which could hold up to 80 pupils, were taught by a single schoolmaster. There might be smaller adjoining rooms for the teaching of infants and girls. There was sometimes with a schoolmaster's house in the same style nearby. Many burgh schools moved away from this model of teaching from the late eighteenth century as the new commercial and vocational subjects led to the employment of more teachers. From the 1790s urban schools were often rebuild in a more imposing classical style, from public subscription, or a legacy, and renamed academies.\n\nOne of the effects of the extensive network of parish schools was the growth of the \"democratic myth\", which in the nineteenth century created the widespread belief that many a \"lad of pairts\" had been able to rise up through the system to take high office and that literacy was much more widespread in Scotland than in neighbouring states, particularly England. Historians now accept that very few boys were able to pursue this route to social advancement and that literacy was not noticeably higher than in comparable nations, as the education in the parish schools was basic and short and attendance was not compulsory.\n\nBy the eighteenth century many poorer girls were being taught in dame schools, informally set up by a widow or spinster to teach reading, sewing and cooking. Among members of the aristocracy by the early eighteenth century a girl's education was expected to include basic literacy and numeracy, needlework, cookery and household management, while polite accomplishments and piety were also emphasised. Female illiteracy rates based on signatures among female servants were around 90 per cent from the late seventeenth to the early eighteenth centuries, and perhaps 85 per cent for women of all ranks by 1750, compared with 35 per cent for men. Overall literacy rates were slightly higher than in England as a whole, but female rates were much lower than for their English counterparts.\n\nIn the Scottish Highlands, popular education was challenged by problems of distance and physical isolation, as well as teachers' and ministers' limited knowledge of Scottish Gaelic, the primary local language. Here the Kirk's parish schools were supplemented by those established from 1709 by the Scottish Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Its aim in the Highlands was to teach English language and end the attachment to Roman Catholicism associated with rebellious Jacobitism. Though the SSPCK schools eventually taught in Gaelic, the overall effect contributed to the erosion of Highland culture. Literacy rates were lower in the Highlands than in comparable Lowland rural society, and despite these efforts illiteracy remained prevalent into the nineteenth century.\n\nAs society urbanised and population expanded there was a growing shortfall in provision. The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland formed an education committee in 1824. The committee had established 214 \"assembly schools\" by 1865. There were also 120 \"sessional schools\", mainly established by kirk sessions in towns and aimed at the children of the poor. The Disruption of 1843, which created the breakaway Free Church of Scotland, fragmented the kirk school system. 408 teachers in schools joined the breakaway Free Church. By May 1847 it was claimed that 500 schools had been built, along with two teacher training colleges and a ministerial training college, 513 schoolmasters were being paid direct from a central education fund and over 44,000 children being taught in Free Church schools. The influx of large numbers of Irish immigrants in the nineteenth century led to the establishment of Catholic schools, particularly in the urban west of the country, beginning with Glasgow in 1817. By 1872 there were 65 Catholic schools with 12,000 pupils. The church schools system was now divided between three major bodies, the established Kirk, the Free Church and the Catholic Church.\n\nAttempts to supplement the parish system included Sunday schools. Originally begun in the 1780s by town councils, they were adopted by all religious denominations in the nineteenth century. The movement peaked in the 1890s. By 1890 the Baptists had more Sunday schools than churches and were teaching over 10,000 children. In 1895, 50,000 teachers were working within the Church of Scotland in these schools and 60 per cent of children aged 5–15 in Glasgow were enrolled on their books. From the 1830s and 1840s there were also mission schools, ragged schools, Bible societies and improvement classes, open to members of all forms of Protestantism and particularly aimed at the growing urban working classes. The ragged school movement attempted to provide free education to destitute children. The ideas were taken up in Aberdeen where Sheriff William Watson founded the House of Industry and Refuge, and they were championed by Scottish minister Thomas Guthrie who wrote \"Plea for Ragged Schools\" (1847), after which they rapidly spread across Britain.\n\nScots played a major part in the development of teacher education. Andrew Bell (1753–1832) pioneered the Monitorial System, by which the more able pupils would pass on the information they had learned to other children and which developed into the pupil-teacher system of training. It was further developed by John Wood, Sheriff-Depute of Peebles, who tended to favour fierce competition in the classroom and strict discipline. In contrast David Stow (1793–1864), who founded the first infant school in Scotland, in Glasgow in 1828, emphasised the importance of play and was highly influential on the development of the idea of school playgrounds. He focused on the bond between teacher and child and advocated the \"Glasgow method\", which centred on trained adult teachers. He established the first teacher training college in the United Kingdom, the Glasgow Normal Seminary. When, after the Great Disruption it was declared the property of the Church of Scotland, he founded the Free Church Normal Seminary in 1845. Ultimately Wood's ideas played a greater role in the Scottish educational system as they fitted with the need for rapid expansion and low costs that resulted from the reforms of 1872. Scottish schoolmasters gained a reputation for strictness and frequent use of the tawse, a belt of horse hide split at one end that inflicted stinging punishment on the hands of pupils.\n\nThe perceived problems and fragmentation of the Scottish school system led to a process of secularisation, as the state took increasing control. From 1830 the state began to fund buildings with grants, then from 1846 it was funding schools by direct sponsorship. The 1861 Education Act removed the provision stating that Scottish teachers had to be members of the Church of Scotland or subscribe to the Westminster Confession. In 1866 the government established the Argyll Commission, under Whig grandee George Campbell, 8th Duke of Argyll, to look into the schooling system. It found that of 500,000 children in need of education 200,000 were receiving it under efficient conditions, 200,000 in schools of doubtful merit, without any inspection and 90,000 were receiving no education at all. Although this compared favourably with the situation in England, with 14 per cent more children in education and with relatively low illiteracy rates of between 10 and 20 per cent, similar to those in the best educated nations such as those in Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Scandinavia, the report was used as support for widespread reform. The result was the 1872 Education (Scotland) Act, based on that passed for England and Wales as the Elementary Education Act in 1870, but providing a more comprehensive solution.\n\nUnder the act approximately 1,000 regional School Boards were established and, unlike in England where they merely attempted to fill gaps in provision, immediately took over the schools of the old and new kirks and were able to begin to enforce attendance, rather than after the decade necessary in England. Some ragged and industrial schools requested to be taken over by the boards, while others continued as Sunday schools. All children aged from 5 to 13 years were to attend. Poverty was not accepted as an excuse and some help was supplied under the poor law. This was enforced by the School Attendance Committee, while the boards busied themselves with building to fill the gaps in provision. This resulted in a major programme that created large numbers of grand, purpose-built schools. Overall administration was in the hands of the Scotch (later Scottish) Education Department in London. Demand for places was high and for a generation after the act there was overcrowding in many classrooms, with up to 70 children being taught in one room. The emphasis on a set number of passes at exams also led to much learning by rote and the system of inspection led to even the weakest children being drilled with certain facts. There was an extensive programme of school building undertaken by the boards between 1872 and 1914. Where there was space these new board schools were two stories tall, but on crowded urban sites they could be four stories tall and designed to house 1,000 children. The Episcopalian and Catholic schools remained outside of the system, with the number of Catholic schools growing to 188 by 1900, serving 58,000 pupils.\n\nUnlike the English act, the Scottish one made some provision for secondary education. The Scottish Education Department intended to expand secondary education, but did not intend to produce a universal system. The preferred method was to introduce vocational supplementary teaching in the elementary schools, later known as advanced divisions, up until the age of 14, when pupils would leave to find work. This was controversial because it seemed to counter the cherished principle that schooling was a potential route to university for the bright \"lad o' parts\". Larger urban school boards established about 200 \"higher grade\" (secondary) schools as a cheaper alternative to the burgh schools. Some of these were former grammar schools, such as the Glasgow and Edinburgh High Schools, Aberdeen New High School and Perth Academy. Some hospitals became day schools and largely remained independent, while a few, including Fettes College in Edinburgh, became public schools on the English model. Other public schools emerged around the mid century, such as Merchiston, Loretto School and Trinity College, Glenalmond. The result of these changes was a fear that secondary education became much harder to access for the children of the poor. However, in the second half of the century roughly a quarter of university students can be described as having working class origins, largely from the skilled and independent sectors of the economy. The Scottish Education Department introduced a Leaving Certificate Examination in 1888 to set national standards for secondary education. In 1890 school fees were abolished, creating a state-funded, national system of compulsory free basic education with common examinations.\n\nThe 1918 Education (Scotland) Act introduced the principle of universal free secondary education, although, due to financial crisis and resistance from the SED, it took almost two decades to implement. Most of the advanced divisions of the primary schools became junior secondaries, where students received a vocationally orientated education until the age of 14. The old academies and Higher Grade schools became senior secondaries, giving a more academic education, presenting students for the leaving certificate, which was the entry qualification for the universities. Selection between the two types of school was determined at age 12 by an intelligence test, the \"qualifying examination\", known colloquially as \"the qualy\". The 1918 Act brought the Episcopalian and Roman Catholic schools into the state system. While most Episcopalian schools would be absorbed through local mergers, the 224 Catholic schools, with 94,000 pupils in 1918, retained their distinct religious character, access to schools by priests and the requirement that school staff be acceptable to the Church. This move led to prolonged objections from some Protestants who complained that the state funding of Catholic schools was \"Rome on the rates\". The Act also replaced the School Boards with 38 specialist local education authorities, which were elected by a form of proportional representation in order to protect the rights of the Catholic minority. These would be subsumed into local government in 1929. Between the wars new school building was mainly associated with suburban growth. Space was less constrained and styles tended to be simpler with some experiments in modernism.\n\nUnlike the Education Act 1944 in England and Wales, which established the tripartite system, the Education (Scotland) Act 1945 was a consolidation measure, because universal secondary education had already been in place for over a decade. Plans to raise the school leaving age to 15 in the 1940s were never ratified, but increasing numbers stayed on beyond elementary education and it was eventually raised to 16 in 1973. As a result, secondary education was the major area of growth, particularly for girls, who stayed on in full-time education in increasing numbers throughout the century. The 1947 Report on Secondary Education by the Education Advisory Council, established by Labour minister Tom Johnston, proposed an end to selection and, although rejected by Labour and Conservative governments, became a benchmark for reform.\n\nSelection was ended by the Labour government in 1965, which recommended that councils produced one kind of comprehensive secondary school that took all the children in a given neighbourhood. By the late 1970s 75 per cent of children were in non-selective schools and by the early 1980s only the five per cent of children in private schools were subject to selection. New schools were mainly associated with the creation of new towns and housing schemes. There was no distinctive Scottish style of school building in this period and patterns reflected those used in England, tending to be more open in plan and less rigid in design. Existing schools were also adapted for more child-centred learning.\n\nNew qualifications were developed to cope with changing aspirations and economics, with the Leaving Certificate being replaced by the Scottish Certificate of Education Ordinary Grade ('O-Grade') and Higher Grade ('Higher') qualifications in 1962, which became the basic entry qualification for university study. In the 1980s these were replaced by the Standard Grade qualifications. The greater availability of academic qualifications encouraged students to stay on at school. In 1967 22 per cent of students stayed on beyond age 15, but by 1994 the number staying on beyond 16 was 74 per cent. The reorganisation of local government in 1975, which transferred education to nine mainland and three smaller island authorities, allowing those containing large urban centres, to redistribute resources to poorer areas, making education part of a programme of wider social reform. In the 1980s the curriculum was reformed to take account of the whole range of abilities. In 1955 only 22 per cent of pupils achieved five or more passes at ordinary grade. By 1995 the proportion achieving the equivalent in the standard grade was 55 per cent. Gender differences disappeared as girls' attainment caught up with boys in the early 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "17238843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17238843", "title": "Horace Grant Underwood", "text": "Horace Grant Underwood\n\nHorace Grant Underwood (19 July 1859 – 12 October 1916) was a Presbyterian missionary, educator, and translator who dedicated his life to developing Korean society and Christianity.\n\nUnderwood was born in London and immigrated to United States at age 12. He graduated from New York University in 1881 and New Brunswick Theological Seminary in New Brunswick, New Jersey, US in 1884.\n\nUnderwood served as a Northern Presbyterian Church missionary in Korea, teaching physics and chemistry at Gwanghyewon (광혜원) in Seoul, the first modern hospital of Korea. Underwood arrived in Korea on the same boat as Henry G. Appenzeller on Easter Sunday (5 April) 1885, and he also worked with Henry G. Appenzeller, William B. Scranton, James Scarth Gale, and William D. Reynolds to translate the Bible into Korean. The New Testament was completed in 1900 and the Old Testament in 1910. Underwood also worked with Horace N. Allen, an American missionary doctor attached to the royal court. In 1900, Underwood and James Scarth Gale established the Seoul YMCA, and in 1912 Underwood became the president of the Pyeongtaek University established by Arthur Tappan Pierson (평택대학교, 구 피어선기념성경학교). The same year Underwood became the president of the Joseon Christian College (경신학교 儆新學校), the predecessor of Yonsei University. Underwood wrote several books on Korea, including\n\"The Call of Korea.\"\n\nUnderwood's older brother, John T. Underwood, a typewriter entrepreneur based in New York, helped finance Horace Grant's missionary endeavours. In 1889, Underwood married Lillias Horton (1851–1921), a doctor. In 1916, Underwood returned to the US due to failing health, but he died shortly thereafter in Atlantic City. He was originally buried at Grove Church Cemetery in North Bergen, New Jersey, his body was transferred from New Jersey to Yanghwajin Foreigners' Cemetery, S in 1999.\n\nUnderwood's legacy is visible at various Christian educational institutes in Seoul. There is a statue of Underwood in the centre of the Yonsei University campus, and the Underwood Activity Center of Seoul Foreign School is dedicated to his grandson, Richard F. Underwood. Underwood's descendants continued to develop Korean society, religion, politics and education for over one hundred years. His son Horace Horton Underwood (1890–1951) continued the tradition of education and worked at Yonhi University, another predecessor of Yonsei University. Horace Horton and his wife Ethel named their son Horace Grant Underwood II (1917–2004) who, among other notable achievements, served as an interpreter in the Korean War armistice talks. The Underwood family is no longer involved with mission work but continues to serve in Korea at the US Embassy and in business.\n\nThe New Brunswick Theological Seminary has an endowed chair in honour of Underwood for a professor specialising in Global Christianity and missions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3901818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3901818", "title": "Human rights education", "text": "Human rights education\n\nHuman rights education is defined as the learning process that builds up the required knowledge, values, and proficiency of human rights of which the objective is to develop an acceptable human rights culture. This type of learning teaches students to examine their experiences from the human rights point of view enabling them to integrate these concepts into their values and decision-making. According to Amnesty International, human rights education is a way to empower people so that they can create skills and behavior that would promote dignity and equality within the community, society, and all over the world.\n\nThe \"National Economic and Social Rights\" Initiative stated the importance of Non-Discrimination in Human Rights Education. Governments must see to it that it must be exercised without bias to race, gender, color, religion, language, national or social origin, political or personal opinion, birth, or any status. All students, parents, and communities possess the right to take part in decisions affecting their respective schools and the right to education.\n\nThe OHCHR promotes Human Rights Education by supporting national and local initiatives for HRE within the context of its \"Technical Cooperation Programs\" and through the ACT Project which subsidizes the grassroots projects. The ACT or \"Assisting Communities Together Project\" is the collaboration between the OHCHR and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) to make grants available for civil society organizations in implementing human rights activities in local communities.\n\nThe OHCHR also develops preferred Human Rights Education training materials and resource tools such as the Database on Human Rights Education and Training, Resource Collection on Human Rights Education and Training, and web section on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Finally, it takes care of coordinating the World Program for Human Rights Education. \n\nThe \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\" is acknowledged as a landmark document in human rights history. It was drafted by representatives from various countries and regions with varying legal and cultural experiences. The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed this declaration in Paris, France on December 10, 1948. This Declaration states that basic human rights require protection. It was translated into more than 500 languages worldwide.\n\nThe demand for human rights education continues to grow globally. Academic institutions are in the position to train students as future business leaders capable of managing human rights impact on their respective corporate organizations. The United Nations Global Compact in cooperation with the Principles for Responsible Management Education invites different corporations to incorporate business along with human rights topics to their curricula. \n\nThe Asia-Pacific Center for Education for International Understanding and the United Nations Academic Impact mutually organized the 2018 United Nations Global Citizenship Education Seminar at the UN Headquarters in New York City. These seminars are useful in the formulation of new ideas and concepts related to HRE. Human Rights Education is crucial because it is one of the keys to making governments and political leaders accountable. It also imparts and spreads out the human rights vocabulary and provides a critical approach towards human rights.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for the Promotion and Protection of all Human Rights functions as coordinator of the UN Education and Public Information Programs in the area of human rights.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has proclaimed it as central to the achievement of the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR):\n\nArticle 26.2 of the UDHR states the role of educators in achieving the social order called for by the declaration:\n\nArticle 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires states to ensure that children are enabled to develop a respect for their own cultural identity, language and values and for the culture, language and values of others.\n\nThe importance of human rights was reaffirmed by the United Nations in the 1993 Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action:\n\nAs a result of the Vienna Declaration the decade from 1995 to 2004 was declared the \"UN Decade of Human Rights Education\".\n\nUNESCO has a responsibility to promote human rights education, and was a key organiser of the UN's Decade for Human Rights Education. UNESCO attempts to promote human rights education through:\n\n\nFollowing the Decade of Human Rights Education, on 10 December 2004, the General Assembly proclaimed the \"World Programme for Human Rights Education\", and ongoing project to advance the implementation of human rights education programmes in all sectors:\n\nThe emphasis on Human Rights Education began in 1995 with the beginning of the UN Decade for Human Rights Education, though previously addressed in 1953 with the UNESCO Associated Schools Program, which served as an “initial attempt to teach human rights in formal school settings”. The first formal request for the need to educate students about human rights came about in UNESCO’s 1974 article Recommendation concerning Education for International Understanding, Cooperation and Peace, and Education Relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The participants of the International Congress on the Teaching of Humans Rights eventually met in 1978 to form a specific definition of what would be required application of the education in formal curricula. The aims at which the Congress agreed upon including the encouragement of tolerant attitudes with focus on respect, providing knowledge of human rights in the context of national and international dimensions as well as their implementations, and finally developing awareness of human rights translating into reality whether social or political on national and international levels.\n\nHuman Rights Education became an official central concern internationally after the World Conference on Human Rights in 1993. This conference brought the issue of educating formally to the top of many countries’ priority lists and was brought to the attention of the United Nations. It was two years later that the United Nations approved the Decade for Human Rights Education, which reformed the aims of application once again. Since the development of the UN Decade, the incorporation of human rights education into formal school curricula has been developed and diversified with the assistance of nongovernmental organizations, intergovernmental organizations, and individuals dedicated to spreading the topic through formal education.\n\nToday the most influential document used to determine what qualifies as human rights and how to implement these ideas and rights into everyday life is the Universal Declaration. The declaration was adopted by the General Assembly in 1948, making December 10 annual Human Rights Day ever since. To this day the 30 article compilation is seen as “a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations”.\n\nArab Institute for Human Rights\nThe Arab Institute for Human Rights is an independent Arab non-governmental\norganization based in Tunisia. It was founded in 1989 at the initiative of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, the Arab Lawyers Union, and the Tunisian League for Human Rights and with the support of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. The Institute received the UNESCO International Award for Human Rights Education for the year 1992.\nGoals :\nThe Arab Institute for Human Rights aims to promote a culture of civil, political, economic, social and cultural human rights, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and international conventions, and to strengthen the values of democracy and citizenship.\n\nOrganizations such as Indian Institute Of Human Rights, Amnesty International and Human Rights Education Associates (HREA) promote human rights education with their programmes, believing \"that learning about human rights is the first step toward respecting, promoting and defending those rights\". Amnesty International defines Human Rights Education as a “deliberate, participatory practice aimed at empowering individuals, groups and communities through fostering knowledge, skills and attitudes consistent with internationally recognized human rights principles”.\n\nHuman Rights organizations aim to protect human rights on different levels some being more specific to geographical areas, others are based on governmental influences, others are nonprofit and education based, while others specifically aim to protect a certain group of individuals. The following are organizations with brief descriptions of their aims, targeted audiences, and affiliations.\n\nAccording to the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), each submission whether private or public, governmental or NGO is evaluated with regards to the following context: appropriateness, effectiveness, originality, ease of use, adaptability, sustainability, approach, and inclusiveness. Each characteristic of which is detailed in the article Human Rights Education in the School Systems of Europe, Central Asia, and North America: A Compendium of Good Practice.\n\nAfrican Centre on Democracy and Human Rights Studies\n\nAfrican Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights\nThis Commission is in charge of monitoring the protection of humans’ rights and ensuring the protection and promotion of these rights. It also is charged with the responsibility of interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. This Commission is limited to the continent of Africa and the countries within it.\n\nAmnesty International\nOne of the largest human rights organizations, Amnesty International includes 2.2 million members from over 150 countries. The organization concerns research as well as action in order to prevent and end human rights abuses. They are also focused on seeking justice for the violations which have already been committed.\n\nArt and Resistance Through Education (ARTE) engages young people to amplify their voices and organize for human rights change through the visual arts.\n\nThe Asian Human Rights Commission\nThe goals of the AHRC are “to protect and promote human rights by monitoring, investigation, and advocating and taking solidarity actions”. This Commission is limited to the continent of Asia and the countries within it.\n\nThe Australian Council for Human Rights Education (formerly National Committee on Human Rights Education) was established in 1999 actively pursue human rights education in Australia in response to the UN Decade on Human Rights Education. ACHRE is registered in Victoria under the Associations Incorporations Act 1981 and Dr Sev Ozdowski is its current President. The key achievements of the committee include establishment of State and Territory networks to promote nationwide the goals and program of activities of the Citizen for Humanity project; provision of online human rights educational materials for primary and secondary schools community organizations as well as for government representatives and officials; establishment in 1983 of Centre for human rights education at Curtin University and in 2007 of the National Centre for Human Rights Education at RMIT University in Melbourne; organization of in international human rights education initiatives such as conferences, for example International Conferences on Human Rights Education - see:, and provision of HR training.\n\nThe Chapel Hill and Carrboro Human Rights Center\nThe Human Rights Center (HRC) in Carrboro is home to advocacy and service organizations, run as a 501(c)3 non-profit organization by UNC professor Judith Blau and by volunteers, many through the University as well. Many volunteers come through the \"Social and Economic Justice\" SOCI 273 APPLES course, and they mainly focus on immigrant rights.\n\nChildren’s Defense Fund (CDF)\nThe Children's Defense Fund attempts to create policies and programs to ensure equality to all children. They work towards decreasing the child poverty rate as well as protecting children from abuse and neglect. The members of the CDF act as advocates for children to help ensure they are treated equally and have the right to care and education in the future.\n\nCoalition For Human Rights Education (COHRE)\nThe Coalition For Human Rights Education formed as a result of experiences of human rights abuse. It is operating in Uganda based in Wakiso District. The organisation will have links through the country and wants to expand knowledge about human rights throughout the country.\nCOHRE works with government bodies, private organisations, schools, minority groups and women and children in communities through training in order to bring about learning the basic human Rights. It provides training to the rural communities and organised groups which equips an individual to better living concerning human rights in areas like health, protection, love, and hope.\n\nCommissioner for Human Rights, Council of Europe\nThe Commission is an independent institution which promotes awareness of human rights in the forty-seven Council of Europe Member States. Since it has such a broad area of concern its purpose is more to encourage reform and it takes “wider initiates on the basis of reliable information regarding human rights violations” rather than acting on individual complaints.\n\nEIP Slovenia – School for Peace\nThis Slovenian organization practices My Rights: Children’s Rights Education Project for children in elementary and middle schools. The organization promotes this project with the intent to endorse principles of the “UN Convention on the Rights of the Child”. They produce materials which allow for comprehensive learning methods in order to train their teachers and pass information to their students. To encourage teachers to participate, each month of the academic calendar focuses on one children’s right and corresponding activities and materials are used as guidelines.\n\nEquitas- International Centre for Human Rights Education (Centre international d’education aux droits humains)\nCanada has instituted this non-formal program in which primary school aged children are introduced to human rights education through after school programs and summer camps known as Play it Fair! Its purpose is to educate the public on how important human rights are by starting the education at such a young age. It is “intended to raise human rights awareness in children and educate them against discriminatory attitudes and behaviours, thus equipping them with skills to confront them”.\n\nEuropean Union Ombudsman\nThis organization exists to investigate grievances about the maladministration that occurs within the institutions and bodies of the European Union.\n\nFacing History and Ourselves\nThis US developed online module organization aims to provide information investigating “how societies attempt to rebuild, repair, and bring a sense of justice and security to their citizenry in the aftermath of conflict and genocide”. As the topics about which this particular organization are concerned with are more mature and sensitive than others, this program is designed for students in middle, high school, and at the university level. The module has specifically designed its program based on four case studies: Germany, Rwanda, Northern Ireland, and South Africa. This resource has proven helpful in order to study how individuals, organizations, and governments have fostered “stability, security, reconciliation, coexistence and/or justice”, all of which are explained in further detail on the organization’s website, www.facinghistory.org.\n\nHistory Teachers Association of Macedonia\nThe most upper level of secondary educated Macedonian students are given the option of participating in a human rights based lecture called Retelling of History. This class is one in which they study from a different textbook than traditional history classes specifically focusing on the history of the country’s transitional period from 1990 to 2000. The alternative textbook not only focuses on the political and military aspects of history, as most do, but also includes social and cultural topics and themes of the historical time period. The course focuses on four main topics throughout the year including interethnic relationships, the new political scene, the transition itself, and how everyday life has been altered.\n\nHuman Rights Action Center\nThis nonprofit organization is based in Washington, DC and headed by human rights activist Jack Healy. This center is supportive of other growing organizations across the world. Their focus is on the issues documented in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nUnited Nations Human Rights Council\nThis council includes forty-seven states and is charged with the responsibility of promoting and protecting human rights on the international level. The council has a specific Advisory committee which assesses each situation as well as an outlined Complaint Procedure which must be followed in order for an individual or organization to bring a violation to the attention of the Council.\n\nHuman Rights Watch\nFunctioning as another global organization, the Human Rights Watch protects human rights by investigating claims, holding abusers accountable of their actions, and monitoring and challenging governments to make sure that they are using their power to end abusive practices efficiently and to the fullest.\n\nIstituto Comprensivo “Socrate”\nThis Italian-based organization takes part in the practice they have named Preserving Human Rights: A Year-Long human Rights Education Course. This education course is a two semester class available to students ages 11 to 18. The class aims to familiarize students with the framework of human rights and educate them in regards to more contemporary issues. By educating the students with regards to these matters it is intended by the organization that they will then be able to take the knowledge they have gained and be able to develop a platform to initiate action and raise awareness of the issue at hand.\n\n'John Humphrey Centre for Peace and Human Rights The John Humphrey Centre exists to promote the principles of the Universal Declaration of Peace and Human Rights through human rights education and learning. The organization develops curriculum, conducts training, works with children and youth, and fosters public discourse on matters of human rights.\n\nNational Association for the Advancement of Color People (NAACP)\n“The mission of the NAACP is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic quality of rights of all persons and to eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination”.\n\nInter-African Committee on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children\n\nNamibian Legal Assistance Centre\n\nPeople in Need\nPeople in Need developed a project called One World in Schools: Human Rights Documentary Films in which they provide teachers with films, over 260 of which are available, and other multimedia tools to assist in their education of human rights around the world. The purpose of the videos is to teach the students, specifically primary and secondary school aged students in the Czech Republic, the values of tolerance and respect by way of audio-visual stimulation.\n\nOffice of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Co-Operation in Europe (OSCE)\nThe OSCE comprises fifty-six states from participating countries in Europe, Central Asia, and North America. The main focuses of the OSCE include the freedom of movement and religion. They specifically monitor torture prevention and human trafficking.\n\nOffice of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights\nUnlike many other organizations this office is not limited to a specific geographic area, but instead works to protection all human rights for all peoples. This organization also states within its mission statement it aims to “help empower people to realize their rights” versus many organizations which state that they wish to promote knowledge etc.\n\nOffice of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees\nThis organization has a specific target audience of refugees which it hopes to protect from violations of their rights. They aim to ensure that any person can seek a safe refuge in some place while remaining to have the option to return home, integrate at a new locale or resettle in a third location.\n\nSimon Wiesenthal Center\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center is a human rights organization which focuses on the international Jewish community. The Center addresses anti-Semitism including the hate and terrorism associated with it. By teaming up with Israel and cooperating closely with the Jewish religious community, the Center defends the safety of Jews worldwide and serves to educate others about Jewish history including but limited to the Holocaust.\n\nTostan\nTostan is an international non-profit organization headquartered in Dakar, Senegal, operating in six countries across West Africa. Tostan's mission is to empower African communities to bring about sustainable development and positive social transformation based on respect for human rights. At the core of Tostan’s work is its 30-month Community Empowerment Program (CEP), which provides participatory human rights education in local languages to adults and adolescents who have not attended formal schools, primarily in remote regions.\n\nUnited Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization(UNESCO) “UNESCO’s goal is to build peace in the minds of men”. The organization hopes to act as a catalyst for “regional, national, and international action in human rights”.\n\nUS State Department Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Confined to the United States, the Department strives to take action against abuse of human rights. Although they are not particularly involved with the investigations, they are the enforcers and have partnered with many other organizations committed to protecting human rights.\n\nSeveral schools offer human rights education as part of their curriculum, for example linked subjects like History, Politics and Citizenship, but there are also specialised courses, such as Human Rights offered as part of the International Bacclaureate Diploma programme for high school students.\n\nIB Human Rights is an academic subject containing units on:\n\n\nIn order to pass the course students are required to study for two years, take a final examination and produce a coursework.\n\nAs part of their diploma programme, students may also choose to write their Extended Essay on Human Rights. This is a 4000 word research paper focusing on human rights.\n\nThe IB Human Rights course was originally authored by Joni Mäkivirta, the developer of Cognitive Emotional Pedagogy. Part of the 2002 version of the IB Human Rights syllabus is at the Global Human Rights Education (HREA) website. Only part of the syllabus is available at the HREA website for copyright reasons.\n\nThe complete IB Human Rights syllabus that contains more details, including the assessment criteria, as well as the guide for the Human Rights Extended Essay can be acquired from the International Baccalaureate Organisation.\n\nSome cities in the world have adopted a municipal law to stimulate successfully the HRE in the public schools, as the example of the Municipal Plan of HRE of the city of São Paulo (Decreto Nº 57.503, DE 6 DE Dezembro de 2016), in Brazil .\n\n\n1. Values and awareness\nThe Values and Awareness Model focuses on transmitting “basic knowledge of human rights issues and to foster its integration into public values” based on its philosophical-historical approach. This model is what people commonly think of when human rights are concerned with the target audience being the general public with topics including global human rights and more cultural based matters.\n\n2. Accountability\nThe Accountability Model is associated with the legal and political approach to human rights in which the learners which the model targets are already involved via professional roles. The model is incorporated by means of training and networking, covering topics such as court cases, codes of ethics, and how to deal with the media.\n\n3. Transformational \nThis model of education focuses on the psychological and sociological aspects of human rights. The topics towards which this model is effective are those including vulnerable populations and people with personal experiences effected by the topic, such as women and minorities. The model aims to empower the individual, such as those victims of abuse and trauma. The model is geared towards recognizing the abuse of human rights but is also committed to preventing these abuses.\n\nSudbury model of democratic education schools maintain that values, human rights included, must be learned through experience as Aristotle said: \"For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.\" They adduce that for this purpose schools must encourage ethical behavior and personal responsibility. In order to achieve these goals schools must respect human rights in school by allowing students the three great freedoms—freedom of choice, freedom of action and freedom to bear the results of action—that constitute personal responsibility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39959370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39959370", "title": "Islington College", "text": "Islington College\n\nIslington College is an educational institution in Kathmandu, Nepal. It was established in 1997 as a regular franchisee of Singapore main-board listed Informatics Education Limited (IEL). The college directly partners with London Metropolitan University (LondonMet) to deliver their bachelor's degrees in Computing; Computer Networking & IT Security and Multimedia Technologies programmes for in-country provision.\n\nDawning upon its new partnerships with UK universities, the college changed its name to Islington College in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2384980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384980", "title": "James Donaldson (classical scholar)", "text": "James Donaldson (classical scholar)\n\nSir James Donaldson (26 April 1831, Aberdeen – 1915), was a Scottish classical scholar, and educational and theological writer.\n\nHe was born in Aberdeen on 26 April 1831.\n\nHe was educated at Aberdeen Grammar School, Marischal College, Aberdeen, New College, London, and Berlin University. In 1854 he was appointed Rector of the Stirling High School where he remained for two years, before leaving for the Royal High School of Edinburgh, of which he was appointed Rector in 1866.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1867, his proposer being Alexander Keith Johnston.\n\nHe became in 1881 Professor of Humanity in the University of Aberdeen, and in 1890 Principal of the University of St Andrews by the Universities (Scotland) Act.\n\nHe was knighted by Edward VII in 1907, and was awarded an LL.D. by the University of Glasgow and an honorary Doctor of Divinity by the University of Aberdeen in recognition of his work in Church history.\n\nHe died on 9 March 1915. and is buried with his wife in the churchyard of St Andrews Cathedral. He also has a memorial in the Church of St John the Evangelist, Edinburgh. He was succeeded in his role as Principal by Very Rev Prof Alexander Stewart, but Stewart died only a few months later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11032858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11032858", "title": "Jamie Bishop", "text": "Jamie Bishop\n\nChristopher James Bishop (November 9, 1971 – April 16, 2007), known as Jamie Bishop, was an instructor of German language at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, as well as an artist and craftsman. He was among those shot and killed in the Virginia Tech shooting. He was the son of Michael Bishop, an award-winning science fiction author.\n\nBishop grew up in Pine Mountain, Georgia, and earned his bachelor's and master's degrees in German from the University of Georgia. He was a Fulbright scholar at Christian-Albrechts University in Kiel, Germany. He helped run an exchange program at Darmstadt University of Technology in Germany. Bishop spent four years living in Germany, where (according to his web site) he \"spent most of his time learning the language, teaching English, drinking large quantities of wheat beer and wooing a certain fraulein,\" Stephanie Hofer, who later became his wife. From 1995 to 1996 he taught at the Zentrales Sprachlabor of Ruprecht-Karls University of Heidelberg, and collected survey data for his Master's Thesis, \"Jugendsprache: a critical study of German \"Youth Language.\"\"\n\nBefore teaching at Virginia Tech, Bishop worked in the Office of Arts and Sciences Information Services (OASIS) as an academic-technology liaison at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he provided technical support for faculty and staff members and graduate students. While at UNC, in addition to instructing German language classes, he developed a software package for students to digitally record and submit spoken language assignments to professors, a significant improvement over the previously used magnetic tape method. He received an OASIS Director's Choice Award in 2004.\n\nHe left UNC in 2004 for Virginia Tech, where he was an instructor in German, and taught information technology for VT's Faculty Development Institute. In addition to being a German teacher, Bishop was a multimedia artist, photographer and graphic designer, who spoke of \"changing the world with art\". He produced the cover art for Michael Jasper's book \"Gunning for the Buddha\", and for five of Michael Bishop's books; and designed \"ingenious pieces of furniture.\" One of Bishop's \"haunting\" wrap-around book jackets is featured on the anthology \"Passing for Human\", edited by Michael Bishop and Steve Utley.\n\nAccording to Michael Bishop, Jamie \"spoke German like a native, understood computers inside out, played drums in a basement band, bicycled and hiked, followed the fortunes of the Atlanta Braves as obsessively as his mother, grandmothers, and I did, and made friends everywhere. He was a people lover from the get-go, and his energy levels put mine to shame.\"\n\nBishop was killed on April 16, 2007, during the Virginia Tech shooting, while teaching an Elementary German class.\n\nA scholarship fund was established in Jamie Bishop's name for German majors at Virginia Tech.\n\nThe annual \"Jamie Bishop Memorial Award for an Essay Not in English\" was established by the International Association for the Fantastic in the Arts as a prize for an essay on the subject of science fiction or speculative fiction not written in English, open to students and scholars presenting papers at the International Conference on the Fantastic in the Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "55598439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55598439", "title": "Jane Eliza Procter Fellowship", "text": "Jane Eliza Procter Fellowship\n\nJane Eliza Procter Fellowships are scholarships supporting academic research at Princeton University. The Fellowships were endowed by William Cooper Procter in 1921-2, and named after his wife, Jane Eliza Johnston Procter (1864-1953). The original terms of the Fellowships were for three awards, \"each with an annual stipend of two thousand dollars, upon which each year two British and one French scholar will have the privilege of residence in the Princeton Graduate College, and of pursuing advanced study and investigation\". The Fellowships were to be appointed annually on the recommendation of the University of Oxford, the University of Cambridge, and the École Normale Supérieure. <br>\n\nThe Fellowships are now for four visiting students per year, consisting of full tuition and stipend, for \"young British and French scholars, one upon recommendation by the University of Cambridge, England; one upon recommendation by the University of Oxford, England; and two upon recommendation made by the École Normale Supérieure\". The fellowship funds can be used to support non-degree visiting pre-doctoral or doctoral scholars for one year. <br>\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Fellowships are administered by the \"English Trustees\" of the Henry Fund, a similar scholarship for study at Harvard and Yale. The Trustees are currently:\n\n\nFormer Trustees include:\n\nAlan Turing received a Procter Fellowship in 1937-8, on the recommendation of John von Neumann, among others. Turing commenced \"Systems of Logic Based on Ordinals\" during his Procter Fellowship year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57517319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57517319", "title": "Jayadeva Yogendra", "text": "Jayadeva Yogendra\n\nDr. Jayadeva Yogendra (1929–2018) was an Indian yoga guru, researcher, author, educator and president of The Yoga Institute, the oldest organized yoga center in the world, founded by Yogendra in 1918. Dr. Yogendra was known for studies on therapeutic effects of Yoga. He pioneered yoga education and written several books on the therapeutic effects of the ancient science, including Yoga Therapy in Asthma, Diabetes, Heart Disease and Yoga Sutras of Patanjali.\n\nIn 1991, Dr. Jayadeva designed the first standardized yoga syllabus for National Council of Educational Research and Training.\n\nHe died on 17th February, 2018 in Mumbai.\n\nJayadeva was born to father Yogendra, a renowned yoga guru and mother Sita Devi on April 27, 1929. He completed his Master's degree in Sāmkhya and Yoga from the University of Mumbai in 1952. In 1955, he received the Hargobindas scholarship for a Ph.D for his thesis on Moksha Dharma Parva of the Mahabharata. After completing his Ph.D, Dr. Jayadeva worked as a lecturer, who taught Sanskrit at the Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Bombay. He was appointed as principal of Teacher Training Institute of Yoga, Bombay, in 1957.\n\nHis significant contribution to Yoga renaissance is the introduction of the Bhavas of Buddhi as expounded in the Sāmkhya, along with the practice of Patañjali's classical Yoga. \n\nHe prepared the syllabus for teaching Yoga in schools for NCERT in 1991. Dr. Jayendra was also the editor of \"Yoga & Total Health\", a monthly journal, published since 1933. \n\nHe edited a book ‘Yoga Today’ published by Macmillan Co. of India in 1971. The book carries authentic information on the applicability of yoga for human society.\n\nIn 1997, Jayadeva Yogendra organized the International Conference called WHY- World Householders Yoga Conference, which was presided over by the Dalai Lama. He established the first museum on Yoga in 1987, which was inaugurated by Giani Zail Singh, President of India.\n\nHe was the Governing Body member in Central Council for Research in Indian Medicine and Homeopathy and also member of Scientific Advisory Board of Yoga. He carried a survey of Yogis in India and history of Yoga literature published in Yoga and Modern Life 1961.\n\nDr. Jayadeva has authored several books and edited the Yoga Cyclopedia Series. \n\n\n\nJayadeva Yogendra passed away on February 16, 2018. He was survived by his wife Hansa and son Hrishi. The Ministry of AYUSH and Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga paid tribute to Jayendra Yogendra at the International Yoga Festival in New Delhi on March 22, 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "9902794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9902794", "title": "Jean-Louis Calandrini", "text": "Jean-Louis Calandrini\n\nJean-Louis Calandrini (August 30, 1703 – December 29, 1758) was a Genevan scientist. He was a professor of mathematics and philosophy. He was the author of some studies on the aurora borealis, comets, and the effects of lightning, as well as of an important but unpublished work on flat and spherical trigonometry. He also wrote a commentary on the \"Principia\" of Isaac Newton (published in Geneva, 1739–42), for which he wrote approximately one hundred footnotes.\n\nHe was also known as a botanist. The genus \"Calandrinia\" was named after him.\n\nHis father was a pastor, also named Jean-Louis, and his mother was Michée Du Pan. He wass the grandnephew of Bénédict Calandrini () (). In 1729, he married Renée Lullin. At the Academy of Geneva, he obtained his thesis in physics (1722). In 1724, Calandrini was named mathematics professor at the same time as Gabriel Cramer, but he first undertook a three-year journey to France and England. He was appointed professor of philosophy from 1734 to 1750. He also played an active role on the political scene of Geneva.\n"}
{"id": "2548887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548887", "title": "John R. Powers", "text": "John R. Powers\n\nJohn R. Powers (November 30, 1945 – January 17, 2013) was an American novelist and playwright. Powers wrote four books of fiction, \"The Last Catholic in America\" (Dutton 1973), \"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?\" (Regnery 1975), \"The Unoriginal Sinner and the Ice Cream God\" (Contemporary 1977), and \"The Junk Drawer, Corner Store, Front Porch Blues\" (Dutton 1992). He also wrote the self-help book \"Odditude\" (HCI 2007). These books relate his experience of growing up in 1950's Chicago. John grew up in the Mt. Greenwood neighborhood on the city's far southwest side. The first three books, often referred to as the \"Eddie Ryan Trilogy,\" have been re-issued by Loyola Press.\n\nDr. Powers was awarded two Emmy Awards for his writing. The first in 1984 for \"Lovers and Lanes\" which he wrote for WMAQ TV channel 5 in Chicago and the second in 1988 for \"Going Home\" written for WLS TV channel 7 in Chicago.\n\n\"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?\" was selected for inclusion on the American Library Association’s list of Best Books for Young Adults in 1975. Powers wrote the libretto to a Broadway musical based loosely on characters and events from his first two novels entitled \"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?\" that continues to run in venues nationwide. John was also the author of two one man shows which he also performed. The first \"Scissors, Paper, Rock\" that was based on his Emmy Award-winning special \"Going Home\" and the second, which ran successfully in Chicago, \"Life's Not Fair, So What\".\n\nPowers held a Ph.D. in Communications from Northwestern University and was a professor of speech and performing arts at Northeastern Illinois University. He received his undergraduate degree in sociology from Loyola University and is a graduate of Brother Rice High School in Chicago. Powers continued to write throughout his life, and was a renowned motivational speaker.\n\nDr. Powers lived in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin with his wife JaNelle Meyers Powers, whom he met while she was performing in the original production of \"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?\" as Mary Kenny, and two daughters: actress/playwright, Jacey Powers and journalist Joy Victoria Powers.\n"}
{"id": "1812879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812879", "title": "Jorie Graham", "text": "Jorie Graham\n\nJorie Graham (born May 9, 1950) is an American poet. The Poetry Foundation called Graham \"one of the most celebrated poets of the American post-war generation.\" She replaced poet Seamus Heaney as Boylston Professor at Harvard, becoming the first woman to be appointed to this position. She won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry (1996) for \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\" and was chancellor of the Academy of American Poets from 1997 to 2003.\n\nJorie Graham is the author of numerous collections of poetry, including notable volumes like \"The End of Beauty\", \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\", and \"P L A C E\". She has also edited two anthologies, \"Earth Took of Earth: 100 Great Poems of the English Language\" (1996) and \"The Best American Poetry 1990\". She is widely anthologized and her poetry is the subject of many essays, including \"Jorie Graham: Essays on the Poetry\" (2005). The Poetry Foundation considers Graham's third book, \"The End of Beauty\" (1987), to have been a \"watershed\" book in which Graham first used the longer verse line for which she is best known. Graham's many honors include a Whiting Award (1985), the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Fellowship, an Ingram Merrill Fellowship, The Morton Dauwen Zabel Award from The American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and the Whiting Award. \"The Dream of the Unified Field: Selected Poems 1974-1994\" won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Her collection of poetry \"P L A C E\" won the 2012 Forward Poetry Prize for best collection, becoming the first American woman ever to win one of the UK's most prestigious poetry accolades. \"P L A C E\" was also shortlisted for the 2012 T S Eliot Prize. In 2013, Graham became only the third American to win the International Nonino Prize. In 2015, \"From the New World: Selected Poems 1976-2014\"—a collection from all prior eleven volumes plus new work—was published by HarperCollins/Ecco Press. In 2016 \"From the New World\" won the \"LA Times Book Award\" for poetry\".\"\n\nIn 2017, Graham received the Wallace Stevens Award from the Academy of American Poets. Given annually to recognize outstanding and proven mastery in the art of poetry, recipients are nominated and elected by a majority vote of the Academy's Board of Chancellors. She won the 2018 Bobbitt National Prize for Poetry for \"Fast\". \n\nAbout Jorie Graham, Academy of American Poets Chancellor Claudia Rankine said: \"Jorie Graham's masterful poems traverse almost four decades of inquiry into what it means to be in relation. Her work pulls forward our mythical, historical, environmental, and personal narratives in order to inhabit our most ordinary and collective experiences. Hers is the patience of the return; repetition in her work unearths the nuances of fundamental desires to live, to love, to be. Clear-eyed and with a scope that encompasses what is both known and unknown, her fifteen collections have built towards a brilliant insistence on presence.\"\n\nShe served as a Chancellor of The Academy of American Poets from 1997 to 2003, and she currently sits on the contributing editorial board to the literary journal \"Conjunctions\".\n\nJorie Graham was born in New York City in 1950 to Curtis Bill Pepper, a war correspondent and the head of the Rome bureau for \"Newsweek\" magazine, and the sculptor Beverly Stoll Pepper. She was raised in Rome, Italy. She studied philosophy at the Sorbonne, but was expelled for participating in student protests. She completed her undergraduate work as a film major at New York University, and became interested in poetry during that time. (She claims that her interest was sparked while walking past M.L. Rosenthal's classroom and overhearing the last couplet of \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" ). After working as a secretary, she later went on to receive her Master of Fine Arts from the famed Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa.\n\nGraham has held a longtime faculty position at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and has held an appointment at Harvard University since 1999. Graham replaced Nobel Laureate and poet Seamus Heaney as Boylston professor in Harvard's Department of English and American Literature and Language. She became the first woman to be awarded this position.\n\nGraham was married to and divorced from publishing heir William Graham, brother of Donald E. Graham, now publisher of \"The Washington Post\". She then married the poet James Galvin in 1983 and they divorced in 1999. She married poet and painter Peter M. Sacks, a colleague at Harvard, in 2000.\n\nIn January 1999, she judged the University of Georgia Contemporary Poetry series contest, which selected the manuscript \"O Wheel\" from Peter Sacks, her future husband, as the first-place winner. Graham noted that at that time she was not married to Sacks, and that while she had \"felt awkward\" about giving the award to her then-boyfriend, she had first cleared it with the series editor, Bin Ramke. As a result of the critical media coverage Ramke resigned from the editorship of the series. Graham subsequently announced that she would no longer serve as a judge in contests although she continued to do so after 2008. Throughout the course of the contest, Ramke had insisted that judges of the contest be kept secret, and until Foetry.com obtained the names of judges via The Open Records Act, the conflict of interest had been undisclosed. A statement now adopted in the rules of many competitions (including the University of Georgia Contest) to prevent judges from selecting students is often referred to as the \"Jorie Graham rule\".\n\nThe Foetry site also contended that Graham, as a judge at Georgia and other contests, had awarded prizes to at least five of her former students from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, including Joshua Clover, Mark Levine, and Geoffrey Nutter. Graham's reply to this was that over years of teaching she has had over 1400 students, many of whom went on to continue writing poetry, that no rules had prohibited her from awarding prizes to former students, and that in each case she claims to have selected the strongest work.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19274495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19274495", "title": "Kenya Institute of Social Work and Community Development", "text": "Kenya Institute of Social Work and Community Development\n\nThe Kenya Institute of Social Work and Community Development (KISWCD) is a community-focused development and training institution without any governmental, religious or political affiliation. KISWCD was initiated in 1997 and incorporated on 22 June 2000 as a private company limited by guarantee. It was registered by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology on 22 August 2002 as a training institution.\n\nThe institute is managed by a Board of Governors who are experienced in the areas of social work, educational institutions management, business management, human resources management, finance and accounting, psychology, environmental health, counselling and law.\n\nKISWCD is an examination centre for KNEC, ICM UK, AQA UK, and ABMA among others. The institution offers certificate and diploma courses in Community Development, Social Work and Welfare, Project Management, Community Health and Counseling. Short courses and consultancy services are available.\n\nStudents from Uganda, Tanzania, Mozambique, Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia are among those who have enrolled in KISWCD.\n\nThe main campus is located at NACICO Plaza, 6th Floor, on Landhies Road, Nairobi.\n\nKISWCD has intakes in January and June every year. Registration for the distance learning programme is possible throughout the year. Students can register online.\n\n\nExaminations are administered by several examination bodies namely:\n\nThe programmes evaluation and quality assurance is done by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Commission for Higher Education, Kenya Methodist University and individual institutions that collaborating with KISWCD.\n\nAll students are required to get attachments in NGOs, churches and other organisations involved in community work for not less than three months. This takes place during the academic year and is a mandatory requirement.\n\nThe institute sponsors an annual sports day where students and teachers play against each other.\n\nShort courses are organised at the beginning of each year. The institute links up with Kenya Institute of Social Work to offer training.\n\nKISWCD does not offer in-house accommodation for students. However, arrangements are made to secure safe accommodation, with the cost met by the students.\n\nThe objective of the consultancy services is to provide advice in particular areas of expertise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2864201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864201", "title": "Kevätpörriäinen", "text": "Kevätpörriäinen\n\nKevätpörriäinen (Finnish meaning approximately \"spring buzzing bee\") is an annual Finnish magazine in Helsinki.\n\n\"Kevätpörriäinen\" was founded in 1949. The publisher is the regional teachers’ association Helsinki-Uusimaan Luokanopettajat ry. The full-color magazine is produced entirely by volunteer children from primary schools in Helsinki. Every year, teachers in Helsinki schools ask their pupils to write stories and poems and draw pictures for the magazine and, after the articles are approved, the magazine is sent to be printed.\n\nThe magazine is sold through primary school student volunteers on the streets of Helsinki and sometimes door-to-door. It is not available through retail outlets.\n\nFor many Finns living in the Helsinki region, buying a copy of Kevätpörriäinen is an important spring tradition.\n"}
{"id": "34311331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34311331", "title": "List of archives in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "List of archives in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThis is list of archives in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42970621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42970621", "title": "List of higher education associations and alliances", "text": "List of higher education associations and alliances\n\nMany institutions of higher education often combine their resources so that they can share information and resources, coordinate research agendas, and afford each other mutual support.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58581502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58581502", "title": "List of music museums", "text": "List of music museums\n\nThis is a list of music museums worldwide. The list contains notable former and existing museums that focus on musicians, musical instruments or other musical subjects.\n\n\n\n\ndedicated to Ludwig van Beethoven\n\ndedicated to Anton Bruckner\n\ndedicated to Johannes Brahms and/or Joseph Haydn\n\ndedicated to Gustav Mahler\n\ndedicated to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and/or family members\n\ndedicated to Franz Schubert\n\ndedicated to the Strauss family\n\ndedicated to Arnold Schoenberg\n\ndedicated to other composers\n\n\n\n\n\nEast and West Flanders\n\nProvince of Antwerp\n\nBrussels and Flemish Brabant\n\nLimburg\n\nWallonia\n\n\n\nBritish Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan\n\nNova Scotia and Quebec\n\nOntario\n\n\n\ndedicated to Antonín Dvořák\n\ndedicated to Leoš Janáček\n\ndedicated to Bedřich Smetana\n\ndedicated to other composers\n\n\n\n\n\n\nParis\nOther museums\n\nBaden-Württemberg\n\nBavaria\n\n\nBerlin and Brandenburg\n\nHamburg, Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern\n\n\nNorth Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Bremen\n\nRhineland-Palatinate, Saarland and Hesse\n\nSaxony and Saxony-Anhalt\n\nThuringia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNorth\n\nWest\n\nCentre and east\n\nSouth\n\n\n\n\ndedicated to Frédéric Chopin\n\ndedicated to other musicians\n\nOther museums\n\n\n\n\n\nMoscow\n\nSaint Petersburg\n\nOther museums\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStockholm\n\nOther museums\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLondon\n\nLiverpool\n\nEngland (other museums)\n\nNorthern Ireland\n\nScotland\n\nWales\n\nMobile\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew York City and Long Island\n\nOther museums\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21479076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21479076", "title": "Local Education Agency", "text": "Local Education Agency\n\nLocal education agency (LEA) is a commonly used acronym for a school district, an entity which operates local public primary and secondary schools in the United States, or provides government services to schools within a local area in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn some instances, LEA is used to refer to an individual school, especially a charter school, though this usage is less common.\n\n"}
{"id": "5163815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5163815", "title": "Math circle", "text": "Math circle\n\nA math circle is a social structure where participants engage in the depths and intricacies of mathematical thinking, propagate the culture of doing mathematics, and create knowledge. To reach these goals, participants partake in problem-solving, mathematical modeling, the practice of art, and philosophical discourse. Some circles involve competition, others do not; all promote camaraderie.\n\nMath circles can have a variety of styles. Some are very informal, with the learning proceeding through games, stories, or hands-on activities. Others are more traditional enrichment classes, but without formal examinations. Some have a strong emphasis on preparing for olympiad competitions; some avoid competition as much as possible. Models can use any combination of these techniques, depending on the audience, the mathematician, and the environment of the circle. Athletes have sports teams through which to deepen their involvement with sports; math circles can play a similar role for kids who like to think. Two features all math circles have in common are (1) that they are composed of students who want to be there - they either like math, or want to like math, and (2) that they give students a social context in which to enjoy mathematics.\n\nMathematical enrichment activities in the United States have been around since sometime before 1977, in the form of residential summer programs, math contests, and local school-based programs. The concept of a math circle, on the other hand, with its emphasis on convening professional mathematicians and secondary school students on a regular basis to solve problems, appeared in the U.S. sometime between 1995 and 2001. This form of mathematical outreach made its way to the U.S. most directly from Russia and Bulgaria. They first appeared in Russia during the 1930s; they have existed in Bulgaria since sometime before 1907. The tradition arrived in the U.S. with émigrés who had received their inspiration from math circles as teenagers. Many of them successfully climbed the academic ladder to secure positions within universities, and a few pioneers among\nthem decided to initiate math circles within their communities to preserve the tradition which had been so pivotal in their own formation as mathematicians. These days, math circles frequently partner with other mathematical education organizations, such at the Julia Robinson Mathematics Festival and the Mandelbrot Competition.\n\nDecisions about content are difficult for newly forming math circles and clubs, or for parents seeking groups for their children.\n\nProject-based clubs may spend a few meetings building origami, developing a math trail in their town, or programming a mathy computer game together. Math-rich projects may be artistic, exploratory, applied to sciences, executable (software-based), business-oriented, or directed at real contributions to local communities. Museums, cultural and business clubs, tech groups, online networks, artists/musicians/actors active in the community, and other individual professionals can make math projects especially real and meaningful. Increasingly, math clubs invite remote participation of active people (authors, community leaders, professionals) through webinar and teleconferencing software.\n\nProblem-solving circles get together to pose and solve interesting, deep, meaningful math problems. Problems considered \"good\" are easy to pose, challenging to solve, require connections among several concepts and techniques, and lead to significant math ideas. Best problem solving practices include meta-cognition (managing memory and attention), grouping problems by type and conceptual connections (e.g. \"river crossing problems\"), moving between more general and abstract problems and particular, simpler examples, and collaboration with other club members, with current online communities, and with past mathematicians through the media they contributed to the culture.\n\nGuided exploration circles use self-discovery and the Socratic method to probe deep questions. Robert & Ellen Kaplan, in their book Out of the Labyrinth: Setting Mathematics Free, make a case for this format describing the non-profit Cambridge/Boston Math Circle they founded in 1994 in the Harvard University. The book describes the classroom, organizational and practical issues the Kaplans faced in founding their Math Circle. The meetings encourage a free discussion of ideas; while the content is mathematically rigorous, the atmosphere is friendly and relaxed. The philosophy of the teachers is, \"What you have been obliged to discover by yourself leaves a path in your mind which you can use again when the need arises\" (G. C. Lichtenberg). Children are encouraged to ask exploratory questions. Are there numbers between numbers? What's a geometry like with no parallel lines? Can you tile a square with squares all of different sizes?\n\nResearch mathematicians and connecting students with them can be a focus of math circles. Students in these circles appreciate and start to attain the very special way of thinking in research mathematics, such as generalizing problems, continue asking deeper questions, seeing similarities across different examples and so on.\n\nTopic-centered clubs follow math themes, such as clock arithmetic, fractals, or linearity. Club members write and read essays, pose and solve problems, create and study definitions, build interesting example spaces, and investigate applications of their current topic. There are lists of time-tested, classic math club topics, especially rich in connections and accessible to a wide range of abilities. The plus of using a classic topic is the variety of resources available from the past; however, bringing a relatively obscure or new topic to the attention of the club and the global community is very rewarding, as well.\n\nApplied math clubs center on a field other than mathematics, such as math for thespians, computer programming math, or musical math. Such clubs need strong leadership both for the math parts and for the other field part. Such clubs can meet at an artists' studio, at a game design company, at a theater or another authentic professional setting. More examples of fruitful applied math pathways include history, storytelling, art, inventing and tinkering, toy and game design, robotics, origami, and natural sciences.\n\nMost circles and clubs mix some features of the above types. For example, the Metroplex Math Circle has a combination of problem-solving and research, and the New York Math Circle is some combination of a problem-solving circle and a topic-centered club, with vestiges of a research circle.\n\nOne can expect problem-solving groups to attract kids already strong in math and confident in their math abilities. On the other hand, math anxious kids will be more likely to try project-based or applied clubs. Topic-centered clubs typically work with kids who can all work at about the same level. The decision about the type of the club strongly depends on your target audience.\n\nMath competitions involve comparing speed, depth, or accuracy of math work among several people or groups. Traditionally, European competitions are more depth-oriented, and Asian and North American competitions are more speed-oriented, especially for younger children. The vast majority of math competitions involve solving closed-ended (known answers) problems, however, there are also essay, project and software competitions. As with all tests requiring limited time, the problems focus more on the empirical accuracy and foundations of mathematics work rather than an extension of basic knowledge. More often than not, competition differs entirely from curricular mathematics in requiring creativity in elementary applications—so that although there may be closed answers, it takes significant extension of mathematical creativity in order to successfully achieve the ends.\n\nFor some people, competition carries with it a negative connotation and corollary of greed for victory rather than an appreciation of mathematics. However, those who run math circles centering mostly on competition rather than seminars and lessons attest that this is a large assumption. Rather, participants grow in their appreciation of math via math competitions such as the AMC, AIME, USAMO, and ARML.\n\nSome math circles are completely devoted to preparing teams or individuals for particular competitions. The biggest plus of the competition framework for a circle organizer is the ready-made set of well-defined goals. The competition provides a time and task management structure, and easily defined progress tracking. This is also the biggest minus of competition-based mathematics, because defining goals and dealing with complexity and chaos are important in all real-world endeavors. Competitive math circles attract students who are already strong and confident in mathematics, but also welcome those who wish to engage in the mathematics competitive world. Beyond the age of ten or so, they also attract significantly more males than females, and in some countries, their racial composition is disproportionate to the country's demographic.\n\nCollaborative math clubs are more suitable for kids who are anxious about mathematics, need \"math therapy\" because of painful past experiences, or want to have more casual and artistic relationships with mathematics. A playgroup or a coop that does several activities together, including a math club, usually chooses collaborative or hybrid models that are more likely to accommodate all members already in the group.\n\nMost math circles and clubs combine some competitive and some collaborative activities. For example, many math circles, while largely centering on competitions, host seasonal tournaments and infuse their competition seminars with fun mathematical lessons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2764242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2764242", "title": "Mathilde Marchesi", "text": "Mathilde Marchesi\n\nMathilde Marchesi (24 March 1821 – 17 November 1913) was a German mezzo-soprano, a renowned teacher of singing, and a proponent of the bel canto vocal method.\n\nMarchesi was born in Frankfurt. Her father's name was Graumann; her aunt was the pianist and friend of Beethoven, Dorothea von Ertmann, née Graumann. In her adolescence her family fortunes failed, so she travelled at the age of 22 to Vienna to study voice. Thereafter she went to Paris and studied with Manuel García II, who was to have the foremost influence on her. She made her debut as a singer in 1844, and had a short career in opera and recital. Her voice, however, was only adequate, so she moved to teaching in 1849. In 1852, she married Italian baritone Salvatore Marchesi, Cavaliere de Castrone (d. 1908).\n\nIt was in this field that she would become famous. She taught at conservatories in Cologne and Vienna and in 1881 opened her own school on the in Paris, where she was to remain for most of her life. Ultimately, she was best known as the vocal teacher of a number of great singers. The most famous among them is perhaps Nellie Melba, but she also trained such illustrious singers as Emma Calvé, Frances Alda, Ellen Gulbranson, Selma Kurz and Emma Eames. Marchesi died in London in 1913. The mother of Joan Sutherland was taught by a pupil of Marchesi.\n\nToday, Marchesi is remembered not at all for her singing career. Rather, she is known first and foremost as the teacher of a surprising number of great singers, and also as the person who carried the bel canto technique into the 20th century. Her ideas are still studied, primarily by female singers, especially those with voices in the soprano range, in which Marchesi had specialized.\n\nMarchesi was clearly committed to the bel canto style of singing. Despite this, she did not particularly identify herself as a bel canto teacher. She asserted that there were only two styles of singing: \"the \"good\"...and the \"bad\"\" and argued that a properly trained vocalist could sing the old bel canto style just as easily as the then newer, more dramatic style.\n\nShe was generally an advocate of a naturalistic style of singing: she called for a fairly instinctive method of breathing and argued against the \"smiling\" mouth position that many teachers of her day preferred. She was particularly concerned with vocal registration, calling it \"the Alpha and Omega of the formation and development of the female voice, the touchstone of all singing methods, old and new.\" She also repeatedly expressed disdain for the teachers of her day who offered methods that they asserted would fully develop the voice in only a year or two. Instead, she felt that vocal training was best approached at a slow and deliberate pace.\n\nTwo of the most distinctive features of her teachings were her \"analytical method\" and her insistence on very short practice times for beginners. Her \"analytical method\" placed great importance on intellectually understanding both the technical and the aesthetic nature of everything sung, from grand arias to simple vocal exercises. She argued that rote practice without understanding was ultimately harmful to the artistic use of the voice. Most distinctively, though, she insisted on very short practice times for beginners, as little as five minutes at a stretch three or four times a day for absolute beginners. Of course, as the voice matured those times could and should be expanded.\n\nAmong her pupils were:\n\n\n(Some pupils were noted on an 1899 dedicatory poster, \"Anniversary Fete – fifty years professorship, Mathilde Marchesi, 1849–1899\").\n\nHer daughter, Blanche Marchesi (1863–1940), a contralto, also a noted singer and teacher, made her début at a young age. She first appeared in opera at Prague in 1900, and subsequently sang at Covent Garden in 1902 and 1903. She was an admired concert singer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52998353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52998353", "title": "Millicent Kittredge Blake", "text": "Millicent Kittredge Blake\n\nMillicent Kittredge Blake (alternate spelling, Meliscent; née Millicent Kittredge; January 11, 1822 - November 27, 1907) was an Oakland, California pioneer, and an American educator from the U.S. state of New York. She founded the Oakland Female Seminary (aka Oakland Seminary for Young Ladies; Blake Seminary) on November 8, 1858. It was the first girls school established to the west of the Mississippi River. \n\nHer birthplace was Essex, New York, upon historic Lake Champlain. She is a descendant on the maternal side, of Cotton Mather, and of those physicians who bear the name of Kittredge. She married George Mansfield Blake, mayor of Oakland, and business partner of her brother, Francis Kittredge Shattuck.\n\nShe studied and became a teacher. After a successful management of private schools in her native State, she came to Oakland in 1852, and as soon as its growth warranted the venture, her seminary for young ladies was opened. Although discouraged by friends, who considered success impossible in so new a country, Blake kept steadily on, and eventually succeeded in establishing her school. For half a century, Blake was a paramount factor in the educational work of this county. Not only in her work of founding and maintaining the seminary, but also in the work of founding and upbuilding the University of California, and other western institutions of education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50202718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50202718", "title": "NMS Amiral Murgescu", "text": "NMS Amiral Murgescu\n\nNMS \"Amiral Murgescu\" was a minelayer and convoy escort of the Romanian Navy, the first sea-going warship built in Romania and the largest Romanian-built warship of World War II. She laid numerous minefields, from the Bulgarian port of Burgas to the Crimean port of Sevastopol, which inflicted significant losses to the Soviet Black Sea Fleet. She also carried out numerous convoy escort missions and took part in the Axis evacuation of the Crimea in May 1944. Due to her success in combat, she was decorated twice by May 1944. She was captured by the Soviet Union in September 1944 and served until 1988, when she was scrapped.\n\n\"Amiral Murgescu\" was laid down on 1 August 1938 and launched on 14 June 1939. Her full-load displacement amounted to 1,068 tons while her standard displacement was of 812 tons. She measured 76.9 meters in length, with a beam of 9.1 meters and a draught of 2.5 meters. She was armed with two 105 mm SK C/32 dual-purpose naval/AA guns, two Rheinmetall 37 mm guns, four Oerlikon 20 mm guns and two twin 13 mm machine guns. She was also fitted with two depth charge throwers and could carry up to 200 mines and depth charges (135 mines and 65 depth charges). Her two main guns were initially protected by gun shields, however these were removed in July 1941 in order to facilitate anti-aircraft fire. \"Amiral Murgescu\" had a crew of up to 135 and was powered by two Krupp diesel engines generating 1,050 horse power each, giving her a top speed of 16 knots and a range of 3,400 nautical miles.\n\n\"Amiral Murgescu\" was also able to carry and operate one minesweeping motor launch. This launch was part of a class of four 9-ton vessels armed each with one 20 mm anti-aircraft gun, one 8 mm machine gun and 6 depth charges.\n\nShe had four captains across the war: Alexandru Dumbravă (1941–1942), Ovidiu Mărgineanu (1942–1943), Gheorghe Harting (1943) and Anton Foca (1943–1944).\n\n\"Amiral Murgescu\" was commissioned on 2 March 1941. Her first mission was between 16 and 19 June 1941, when she and two other Romanian minelayers, \"Regele Carol I\" and \"Aurora\", laid a barrage of 1,000 mines between Cape Midia and Tuzla, to protect the main Romanian port of Constanța. When the Soviet Black Sea Fleet attacked the port on 26 June, she helped repel the attack, together with the flotilla leader \"Mărăști\" and the destroyer \"Regina Maria\" and the German coastal battery Tirpitz. The Soviet destroyer leader \"Moskva\" was sunk by Romanian mines and the cruiser \"Voroshilov\" was damaged. \"Amiral Murgescu\" also shot down two Soviet aircraft on that same day. Later, the Soviet submarine \"Shch-213\" and 3 more Soviet submarines (\"M-58\", \"M-34\" and \"Shch-208\") were sunk by Romanian mines near Constanța. The German R-boat \"R-36\" was also sunk by Romanian mines near Constanța in 1943.\n\nDuring a Soviet air raid on 23 June 1941, two of her crewmen were wounded. On a subsequent raid which took place the following day, she shot down two Soviet aircraft, her first aerial kills.\n\nOn 25 June, \"Amiral Murgescu\" shot down three Soviet aircraft in 15 minutes.\n\nDuring a Soviet air attack on Constanța on 5 August, she shot down three more aircraft.\n\nHer next mission was between 7 and 16 October 1941. Together with the Romanian minelayers \"Regele Carol I\" and \"Dacia\" and escorted by the Romanian 250t-class torpedo boats \"Năluca\", \"Sborul\" and \"Smeul\", Romanian gunboats \"Sublocotenent Ghiculescu\" and \"Căpitan Dumitrescu\" and Bulgarian torpedo boats \"Drazki\", \"Smeli\" and \"Hrabri\", she laid four full minefields and one partial minefield along the Bulgarian coast. These mines later sank 4 Soviet submarines (\"S-34\", \"L-24\", \"Shch-210\" and \"Shch-211\").\n\nIn February 1942, she participated in a minelaying operation near Sulina, at the mouth of the Danube.\n\nOn 24 June 1942, she laid mines near Odessa along with \"Dacia\", while being escorted by the Romanian destroyers \"Regele Ferdinand\" and \"Regina Maria\", the flotilla leader \"Mărășești\", the Romanian gunboats \"Ghiculescu\", \"Stihi\" and \"Dumitrescu\" and the Romanian torpedo boat \"Smeul\" as well as motor minesweepers of the Donau Flotilla. The mines laid near Odessa later sank the Soviet submarines \"M-33\" and \"M-60\" and the motor gunboats \"YA-26\" and \"YA-27\".\n\nOn 29–30 October and 5 November 1942, she along with \"Dacia\" and the Romanian destroyers \"Regina Maria\" and \"Regele Ferdinand\", the Romanian leader \"Mărăști\", the Romanian gunboat \"Stihi\" and four German R-boats laid two mine barrages to protect Snake Island. These mines sank the Soviet submarine \"Shch-212\" on 11 December that same year. The Soviet submarine \"M-31\" was either sunk as well by the Romanian mine barrages near the island on 17 December, or sunk with depth charges by the Romanian leader \"Mărășești\" on 7 July 1943. On 1 December 1942, while the Soviet cruiser \"Voroshilov\" together with the destroyer \"Soobrazitelny\" were bombarding the island with forty-six 180 mm and fifty-seven 100 mm shells, the cruiser was damaged by Romanian mines, but she managed to return to Poti for repairs under her own power. During the brief bombardment, she struck the radio station, barracks and lighthouse on the island, but failed to inflict significant losses.\n\nOn the night of 13–14 September 1943, \"Amiral Murgescu\", escorted by two Romanian destroyers, laid mines off Sevastopol. On 15 September, she along with two German auxiliary minelayers, escorted by six R-boats and the German armed ship \"Xanten\", laid a barrage of mines that closed the mouth of the Gulf of Kherson.\n\nWhen not used as minelayer, \"Amiral Murgescu\" was employed as an escort ship. She participated in a total of 16 escort missions, mainly between Constanța and Sevastopol, between November 1942 and September 1943. One of these missions, on 19–20 July 1943, was carried out solely by her. On 15 April 1944, a convoy she was escorting during the evacuation of the Crimea was attacked five times by Soviet bombers. She shot down two of them, but one of her main guns and one 20 mm gun were damaged.\n\nOn 12 May 1944, she was the last Romanian warship to leave Crimea during the evacuation of the peninsula by the Axis. Commanded by Lieutenant Commander Anton Foca, she evacuated about 1,000 troops, including the highly decorated German General Walter Hartmann.\n\nOn 25–26 May, she and \"Dacia\", escorted by the destroyer \"Regina Maria\", the leader \"Mărășești\", the torpedo boats \"Sborul\" and \"Smeul\" and the motor torpedo boats \"Vedenia\" and \"Viscolul\", laid another barrage of mines off Sulina to reinforce the existing one. The mines laid off Sulina sank the German S-boat \"S-148\" on 22 August 1944.\n\nOn 29 May 1944, she was decorated with the Order of the Star of Romania. She was also decorated with the Order of the Romanian Crown.\n\nAfter the 23 August 1944 coup, she was captured by Soviet forces and commissioned as \"Don\". She was converted to training ship on 2 April 1945, to depot ship on 18 January 1947, to command ship on 9 February 1948, to disarmed barracks ship on 7 May 1956 (renamed \"PKZ-107\") and finally to repair ship on 4 January 1958 (renamed \"PM-76\", \"PMR-76\" from 8 June 1966), being finally taken out of service on 27 May 1988 and sold for scrap on 4 July 1988.\n\nFour ships of this class were planned, but only \"Amiral Murgescu\" was completed by Romania. She had one sister ship, \"Cetatea Albă\". She was laid down in 1939, but abandoned at an early stage. Her construction was transferred to Germany and in 1940 she was completed by the Blohm & Voss shipyard in Hamburg. \"Cetatea Albă\" had the same standard displacement and top speed as her sister. It is not known, however, if her armament consisted of more than two four-inch (102 mm) dual-purpose main guns, two 37 mm anti-aircraft guns and 135 mines. \"Cetatea Albă\" was likely never commissioned.\n\nThe other two planned vessels were replaced by smaller warships. One of the substitutes was the old but recently rebuilt minelayer \"Aurora\", commissioned in 1939. With a top speed of 20 knots, she was faster than \"Amiral Murgescu\", but far less suitable for escort missions: her small size allowed for only two twin 13 mm machine guns to be carried, in addition to her load of 40 mines. The other replacement was the ex-French gunboat \"Remus Lepri\", built in 1917. She was acquired by Romania after the end of World War I, along with three sister ships. This 400-ton gunboat, part of the \"Ghiculescu\"-class, was also fitted with minelaying equipment. However, she proved to be unsuitable as a minelayer, being accidentally sunk by an explosion during trials on 11 January 1941.\n"}
{"id": "158464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158464", "title": "Open University", "text": "Open University\n\nThe Open University (OU) is a public distance learning and research university, and the biggest university in the UK for undergraduate education. The majority of the OU's undergraduate students are based throughout the United Kingdom and principally study off-campus; many of its courses (both undergraduate and postgraduate) can also be studied anywhere in the world. There is also a number of full-time postgraduate research students based on the 48-hectare university campus where they use the OU facilities for research, as well as more than 1,000 members of academic and research staff and over 2,500 administrative, operational and support staff.\n\nThe OU was established in 1969 and the first students enrolled in January 1971. The university administration is based at Walton Hall, Milton Keynes, in Buckinghamshire, but has administration centres in other parts of the United Kingdom. It also has a presence in other European countries. The university awards undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, as well as non-degree qualifications such as diplomas and certificates or continuing education units.\n\nWith more than 174,000 students enrolled, including around 31% of new undergraduates aged under 25 and more than 7,400 overseas students, it is the largest academic institution in the United Kingdom (and one of the largest in Europe) by student number, and qualifies as one of the world's largest universities. Since it was founded, more than 2 million students have studied its courses. It was rated top university in England and Wales for student satisfaction in the 2005, 2006 and 2012 United Kingdom government national student satisfaction survey, and second in the 2007 survey. Out of 132 universities and colleges, the OU was ranked 43rd (second quartile) in the \"Times Higher Education\" Table of Excellence in 2008, between the University of Reading and University of the Arts London; it was rated highly in Design, Art History, English, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Computer Science, Development Studies, Social Policy and Social Work and Sociology. It was ranked 36th in the country and 498th in the world by the Center for World University Rankings in 2018.\n\nThe Open University is also one of only three United Kingdom higher education institutions to gain accreditation in the United States of America by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, an institutional accrediting agency, recognized by the United States Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.\n\nThe BSc (Honours) Computing and IT course is accredited by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT and quality assured by the European Quality Assurance Network for Informatics Education (EQANIE).\n\nThe OU won the Teaching Excellence and Digital Innovation categories in The Guardian University Awards 2018.\n\nThe Open University was founded by the Labour government under Prime Minister Harold Wilson. Wilson was a strong advocate, using the vision of Michael Young. Planning commenced in 1965 under Minister of State for Education Jennie Lee, who established a model for the OU as one of widening access to the highest standards of scholarship in higher education, and set up a planning committee consisting of university vice-chancellors, educationalists and television broadcasters, chaired by Sir Peter Venables. The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Assistant Director of Engineering at the time James Redmond, had obtained most of his qualifications at night school, and his natural enthusiasm for the project did much to overcome the technical difficulties of using television to broadcast teaching programmes.\n\nWilson envisioned The Open University as a major marker in the Labour Party's commitment to modernising British society. He believed that it would help build a more competitive economy while also promoting greater equality of opportunity and social mobility. The planned utilisation of television and radio to broadcast its courses was also supposed to link The Open University to the technological revolution underway, which Wilson saw as a major ally of his modernization schemes. However, from the start Lee encountered widespread scepticism and even opposition from within and without the Labour Party, including senior officials in the DES; her departmental head Anthony Crosland; the Treasury; Ministerial colleagues, such as Richard Crossman; and commercial broadcasters. The Open University was realized due to Lee's unflagging determination and tenacity in 1965–67, the steadfast support from Wilson, and the fact that the anticipated costs, as reported to Lee and Wilson by Arnold Goodman, seemed very modest. By the time the actual, much higher costs became apparent, it was too late to scrap the fledgling open university. The university was granted a Royal Charter by the Privy Council on 23 April 1969.\n\nThe majority of staff are part-time Associate Lecturers and, as of the 2009–10 academic year, almost 8,000 work for the OU. There are also 1,286 (mostly full-time) salaried academic employees (central academics based at Walton Hall and Staff Tutors based in a variety of regional locations) who are research active and responsible for the production and presentation of teaching materials, 1,931 who are academic-related and 1,902 support staff (including secretaries and technicians). Salaries are the OU's main cost—over £275 million for the 2009–2010 academic year. In 2010 the OU became one of the \"Sunday Times\" Best Places to Work in the Public Sector.\n\nOpen University Employees Credit Union Limited is a savings and loans co-operative established by the University for staff in 1994. A member of the Association of British Credit Unions Limited, it is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the PRA. Ultimately, like the banks and building societies, members’ savings are protected against business failure by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\nIn 2016, the university reorganised its departments and now operates with the Faculties of Arts & Social Sciences; The Open University Business School (OUBS); The Open University Law School; Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM); Wellbeing, Education & Language Studies; Institute of Educational Technology (IET); Knowledge Media Institute (KMI).\n\nIn 1982, Open University offered a course titled, \"The Effective Manager,\" developed by a team that was led by Charles Handy. After the reported success of the course, Derek S. Pugh proposed the establishment of a business school. In 1988, the Open University Business School (OUBS) was founded by the Faculty of Management department, for which professor Andrew Thomson was appointed to head. Thomson's main goal was the offering of an MBA program, which was eventually funded through a grant from the Department of Education and Science (DES). In 1989, the first class of MBA students were enrolled.\n\nThe Open University Business school is accredited by the international accrediting bodies AACSB, AMBA, and EQUIS. It was placed in the top 1% of UK business schools after having received triple-accreditation.\n\nThe OU Business School's MBA programme was ranked 13th in the \"Financial Times\"’s global rankings of online and distance learning MBA providers which featured five European schools, four of which were in the UK.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2005, the Singapore Institute of Management (SIM) ran the Open University Degree Programme (OUDP), in collaboration with The Open University, United Kingdom (OUUK). which was re-named the Singapore Institute of Management's Open University Centre (SIM-OUC) as one of SIM's autonomous entity. In 2005, after SIM formed SIM University (UniSIM), it took over SIM-OUC students and granted those who graduated in 2006 a choice between a UniSIM or OUUK degree.\n\nThe OU uses a variety of methods for teaching, including written and audio materials, the Internet, disc-based software and television programmes on DVD. Course-based television broadcasts by the BBC, which started on 3 January 1971, ceased on 15 December 2006. Materials comprise originally authored work by in-house and external academic contributors, and from third-party materials licensed for use by OU students. For most modules, students are supported by tutors (\"Associate Lecturers\") who provide feedback on their work and are generally available to them at face-to-face tutorials, by telephone, and/or on the Internet. A number of short courses worth ten credits are now available that do not have an assigned tutor but offer an online conferencing service (Internet Forum) where help and advice is offered through conferencing \"Moderators\".\n\nSome modules have mandatory day schools. These are day-long sessions which a student must attend in order to pass the module. One example of such a module is the K301 – Advanced Certificate in Health Promotion – which has two mandatory day schools/workshops, focusing on communication skills, counselling and practical issues, related to health promotion. Nevertheless, it is possible to be excused on the basis of ill-health (or other extenuating circumstances) and many courses have no mandatory face-to-face component.\n\nSimilarly, many modules have traditionally offered week-long summer schools offering an opportunity for students to remove themselves from the general distractions of their life and focus on their study for a short time.\n\nOver the past ten years the university has adopted a policy of separating residential modules from distance-full-time taught modules. Exemption from attendance at residential schools, always as an Alternative Learning Experience (ALE), is sometimes available for disabled students and others who find it impossible to attend in person (See \"Qualifications-Undergraduate\" section.)\n\nFor many years the OU produced television and radio programmes aimed at bringing learning to a wider audience. In its early years most of these were in the form of documentaries or filmed lectures. Latterly, most OU-associated programming was mainstream and broadcast in peak hours, including series such as \"Rough Science\" and \"Battle of the Geeks\", while older-style programming was carried in the BBC Learning Zone.\nIn 2004 the OU announced it was to stop its late-night programmes on BBC Two, and the last programme was broadcast at 5.30am on 16 December 2006. The OU now plans to focus on semi-academic television programmes, such as many now broadcast on BBC Four.\n\nThe Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education review published in December 2015 found five areas of good practice and made three recommendations for improvement. The English national survey of student satisfaction has twice put the Open University in first place.\n\nIn October 2006, the OU joined the Open educational resources movement with the launch of OpenLearn. A growing selection of current and past distance learning course materials will be released for free access, including downloadable versions for educators to modify (under the Creative Commons BY-NC-SA licence), plus free collaborative learning-support tools.\n\nThe OU is researching the use of virtual worlds in teaching and learning, and has two main islands in Second Life. These islands are called Open University island and OUtopia village. They are separated by a third region \"OU Ocean.\" In May 2009 these regions formed the basis of a case study by Linden Lab, the company which owns Second Life.\n\nAs of mid-2010, the university led the list of contributing universities in the number of downloads of its material from the educational resources site iTunes U, with downloads of over 20 million. Open University continues to adopt Moodle as the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) with their own team deploying custom plugins.\n\nSince 2013, the OU has set up a MOOC platform called FutureLearn which is now the UK's largest provider of free online courses.\n\nOpen University modules are often assessed using an equal weighting of examinations and coursework. The coursework component normally takes the form of between two and seven tutor marked assignments (TMAs) and, occasionally, may also include up to six multiple-choice or \"missing word\" 10-question interactive computer marked assignments (iCMAs). The examinable component is usually an invigilated three-hour paper regardless of the size of the module (although on some modules it can be up to three three-hour papers), but an increasing number of modules instead have an EMA (End of Module Assessment) which is similar to a TMA, in that it is completed at home, but is regarded as an exam for grading purposes.\n\nModules results are sometimes issued on a graded basis, consisting of pass grades 1 (threshold 85%, a distinction), 2 (70–84%), 3 (55–69%) & 4 (40–54%), and fail (below 40%). This grade is calculated as the lower of the overall continuous assessment score (OCAS) and overall examination score (OES).\n\nThese grades can be weighted according to their level, and combined to calculate the classification of a degree. An undergraduate degree will weight level 3 modules twice as much as level 2, and in postgraduate programmes all M level modules are equally weighted.\n\nOpen University modules have associated with them a number of Credit Accumulation and Transfer Scheme (CATS) credits – usually 30 or 60 – depending on the quantity of the material in the module and a level (1, 2, 3, or 4) corresponding to the complexity, with 120 credits roughly equating to the year of study for a full-time student.\n\nThe OU offers a large number of undergraduate qualifications, including certificates, diplomas, and bachelor's degrees, based on both level and quantity of study. An OU undergraduate degree requires 300 (or 360 for honours) CATS credits.\n\nStudents are generally advised not to undertake more than 60 credits per year, meaning that an undergraduate degree will take typically six years to complete. With the exception of some degrees in fast moving areas (such as computing) there is generally no limit on the time which a student may take. Students need special permission to take more than 120 credits (equivalent to full-time study) at any time; such permission is not usually granted.\n\nOriginally the BA was the only undergraduate degree, and it was unnamed. The modern OU grants degrees of Bachelor of Arts (BA), Science (BSc), Laws (LLB) and Engineering (BEng); the BA and BSc may be named (following a specified syllabus) or unnamed (constructed of courses chosen by the student) degrees.\n\nMany OU faculties have now introduced short modules worth ten credits. Most of these modules are taught online, and start at regular intervals throughout the year. They typically provide an introduction to a broader subject over a period of ten weeks, these are generally timed during vacations at conventional universities in order to take advantage of their facilities. Some science modules, which require only home study, are complemented by residential courses, in order to allow the student to gain practical laboratory experience in that field; typically, an award of degree or diploma will require completion of both.\n\nDifferent modules are run at different times of the year, but, typically, a 30 or 60 credit module will run either from October to June or from February to October. Assessment is by both continual assessment (with, normally, between four and eight assignments during the year) and, for most, a final examination or, on some modules, a major assignment.\n\nAs well as degrees in named subject, the Open University also grants \"Open\" Bachelor's degrees where the syllabus is designed by the students by combining any number of Open University modules up to 300 credits for an Open degree and 360 credits for an Open honours degree – the main restriction on which courses can be included is that there must be at least 60 at level 3 for the \"ordinary degree\" and 120 at level 3 for honours and in both cases no more than 120 at level 1. The Open degree may be awarded as a Bachelor of Arts Open or a Bachelor of Science Open either with or without honours. Without honours, at least 150 credits at level 1 and above and 60 credits at level 2 and above are required in the field, either art or science, for the Open degree to carry that name. For a degree with honours, no more than 120 credits at level 1, 120 credits at level 2 and above and 120 credits at level 3 and above are required.\n\nThe Open University grants undergraduate \"Certificates\" (abbreviated Cert) typically awarded after 60 completed credits at Level 1 or Level 3 (where each credit corresponds to roughly 10 hours of study, therefore 60 credits represent about 600 hours of effort), \"Diplomas\" (abbreviated Dip) after 120 credits – typically 60 credits at Level 2 and 60 credits at Level 3. Open University also awards \"Foundation degrees\" (abbreviated FD).\n\nOU also offers a limited number of CertHE (120 CATS) and DipHE (240 CATS).\n\nThe Open University provides the opportunity to study for a PhD on a part-time distance, or a full-time basis (on-site for science subjects, off-site with some supervisions on-site for arts) in a wide range of disciplines as well as an EdD for professionals in education. The university also offers a range of Master's levels modules such as the MBA and MPA, MSc, MA and MEd, and MRes, as well as the professional PGCE qualification and a number of postgraduate diplomas and certificates including innovative practice-based modules and postgraduate computing qualifications for professionals. Postgraduate certificates are awarded for 60 credits of study on specified modules; postgraduate diplomas are awarded for 120 credits of study on specified modules. The university offers \"Advanced Diplomas\" that involve 60 credits at undergraduate level and 60 credits at postgraduate level – these are designed as \"bridges\" between undergraduate and postgraduate study.\n\nUnlike most United Kingdom universities, degree ceremonies at the Open University are not graduation ceremonies as such (the occasion on which degrees are \"formally\" conferred on those who have achieved substantive degrees)—although honours degrees are normally conferred on these occasions. The Open University degree ceremony is officially known as a \"Presentation of Graduates\" at which those who have already had a degree bestowed on them are presented to the University Chancellor or his/her representative. Open University graduates normally graduate \"in absentia\" at a joint meeting of the university's council and senate (\"congregation\") which takes place at a meeting entirely separate from the degree ceremony.\n\nThe university's degree ceremonies occur throughout the year at various prestigious auditorium venues located throughout the United Kingdom, plus one each in Ireland and Continental Western Europe. In the year 2010 the OU held 26 degree ceremonies including Dublin, Manchester, Glasgow, Ely and Versailles. These ceremonies are presided over by a senior academic at Pro-Vice-Chancellor level or higher, and have the normal formal rituals associated with a graduation ceremony, including academic dress, procession and university mace.\n\nIn year 2000, the Open University was the first to host an online \"virtual\" graduation ceremony in the United Kingdom together with an audience at the OU's campus in Milton Keynes. Twenty-six students in eight countries, from the United States of America to Hong Kong, were presented for their master's degrees in the online graduation, including, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) – Tim Berners-Lee one of the founders of the World Wide Web on whom was conferred an honorary doctorate.\n\nLike other UK universities, the OU actively engages in research. The OU's Planetary and Space Sciences Research Institute has become particularly well known to the public through its involvement in space missions. In October 2006, the Cassini-Huygens mission including 15 people from the OU received the 2006 \"Laurels for Team Achievement Award\" from the International Academy of Astronautics (IAA). Cassini-Huygens' successful completion of its seven-year, two billion-mile journey in January 2005 to Saturn ended with Huygens landing farther away from Earth than any previous probe or craft in the history of space exploration. The first instrument to touch Saturn's moon Titan was the \"Surface Science Package\" containing nine sensors to investigate the physical properties of Titan's surface. It was built by a team at the OU led by Professor John Zarnecki.\n\nThe OU employs over 500 people engaged in research in over 25 areas, and there are over 1,200 research students. It spends approximately £20 million each year on research, around £6 million from the Higher Education Funding Council for England, the remainder from external funders.\n\nThe Open University also runs the Open Research Online (ORO) website.\n\nIn the 2015–16 academic year, there were 174,739 enrolled students.\n\nEnrollment numbers show a tremendous difference from 2009-2010 to 2016-2017.\n\nMost students were from England (99,834), while 14,903 were from Scotland, 6,668 from Wales, 3,667 from Northern Ireland and 4,900 from elsewhere in the European Union, plus others elsewhere. 60% of undergraduates were female, with 53% of those taking postgraduate modules being male. 22,664 of students in 2015–16 had declared disabilities.\n\nAccording to the Guardian the fall in the number of part-time students was accelerated in 2012 when tuition fees rose and there was limited financial support for part time students. The Open University saw a 30% drop of part time students from 2010-11 and 2015-16.\n\nWhile most of those studying are mature students, an increasingly large proportion of new undergraduates are aged between 17 and 25, to the extent that the OU now has more students in this age range than any other UK university. \nIn the 2003–2004 academic year around 20% of new undergraduates were under 25, up from 12.5% in 1996–1997 (the year before top-up fees were announced). In 2010 approximately 55% of those under 25 were also in full-time employment. In 2010, 29,000 undergraduates were in this age range. By 2011, 32,000 undergraduates were under 25 years old, representing around 25% of new students. The majority of students in the 2015–16 academic year were aged between 25 and 34 years old, with the median age of new undergraduates being 28.\n\nAs of 2014, the OU's youngest graduate was a fifteen year old boy from Wales who gained a BSc First Class Honours in 2014.\n\nThe OU works with some schools to introduce A-Level students to OU study and in 2009–10 3% of undergraduates were under 18 years old.\n\nUnlike other universities, where students register for a programme, OU students register separately for individual modules (which may be 30 or 60 CATS credits (and formerly available in 10, 15, or 20 credits), equivalent to 15 or 30 ECTS credits). These modules may then be linked into degree programmes.\n\nDuring the 2009–10 academic year social studies was the most popular study area (with 16,381 full-time equivalent students), followed by biological and physical sciences (12,357) and historical and philosophical studies (8,686); student numbers even on smaller undergraduate programmes, such as creative arts and design are still significant (2,528) as are postgraduate registrations on programmes such as mass communications and documentation (123 full-time equivalent students).\n\nThe most popular module during 2009–10 was \"DD101 An introduction to the social sciences\" (7,512 students), followed by \"AA100 The Arts Past and Present\", \"B120 An Introduction to Business Studies\", \"K101 An Introduction to Health and Social Care\" and \"Y163 Starting with Psychology\".\n\n17,634 students received financial assistance towards their study in 2015–16. The typical cost for United Kingdom-based students of a Bachelor's honours degree at the OU was between £3,780 and £5,130 in 2009-10. From September 2012 the Government reduced its funding for all students residing in England and fees went up to compensate. English students pay higher fees than those living in the rest of the United Kingdom. The average cost of one full-time year or 120 credits rose to £5,000, bringing the cost of an average Bachelor's honours degree for an English student to £15,000. (European Union and international students pay more as the university does not receive government funding for them). The most important revenue stream to the Open University is now academic fees paid by the students, which totalled about £157 million in 2009–10 and £248 million in 2015–16.\n\nThe university enrolled fewer than 50,000 students in the 1970–71 academic year, but it quickly exceeded that number by 1974–75. By 1987–88 yearly enrollment had doubled to 100,000 students, passing 200,000 by 2001–02 and 250,000 in 2009–10. Numbers fell when the fee regime changed.\n\nCumulatively, by the end of 2009–10 the OU had educated more than 1.5 million students and awarded 819,564 qualifications after successful assessment.\n\nIn addition, the Open University provides certification for qualifications at Ruskin College in Oxford and Richmond, the American International University in London, a private liberal arts institution. (Until 2008, it provided the same service for the University of the Highlands and Islands in Scotland).\n\nThe Open University Students Association is the equivalent of a students' union for the Open University, and is a registered charity wholly funded by the Open University (OU). The association is governed by a Board of Trustees and a Central Executive Committee. Each student registered with the OU automatically becomes part of the Students Association unless they elect to formally opt out. It offers opportunities to meet up, volunteer, find information and access services to support learning.\n\n\nThe OU has over two million alumni, including:\n\nThe Open University has been featured in many films and television programmes. The plot of \"Educating Rita\" surrounds the working class character aiming to \"improve\" herself by studying English literature. She attends private tutorials run by alcoholic lecturer Frank.\n\nTelevision characters have also followed OU courses. These include Anne Bryce in the BBC sit-com \"Ever Decreasing Circles\", Yvonne Sparrow in \"Goodnight Sweetheart\" and \"Bulman\", in the ITV spin-off from the series \"Strangers\". Sheila Grant (Sue Johnston) was accused of having an affair with her tutor in \"Brookside\". Onslow, a character from \"Keeping up Appearances\", watches Open University programming on television from time to time.\n\nIn autumn 2006, Lenny Henry was a star in \"Slings and Arrows\", a one-off BBC television drama which he also wrote, about someone who falls in love while on an OU English Literature course. (Henry has himself completed an OU degree in English.)\n\nIn the 2006–07 TV series \"Life on Mars\", Sam Tyler received messages from the real world via Open University programmes late at night.\n\nDoreen from \"Birds of a Feather\" announced she had been accepted by the Open University to do a degree in psychology and began studying with the University in series 3.\n\nIn the 2016 novel \"Swing Time\" by Zadie Smith, the narrator's mother is a student of the Open University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1430665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430665", "title": "Public lecture", "text": "Public lecture\n\nA public lecture is one means employed for educating the public in the arts and sciences. The Royal Institution has a long history of public lectures and demonstrations given by prominent experts in the field. In the 19th century, the popularity of the public lectures given by Sir Humphry Davy at the Royal Institution was so great that the volume of carriage traffic in Albemarle Street caused it to become the first one-way street in London. The Royal Institution's Christmas Lectures for young people are nowadays also shown on television. Alexander von Humboldt delivered a series of public lectures at the University of Berlin in the winter of 1827–1828, that formed the basis for his later work \"Kosmos\".\n\nBesides public lectures, public autopsies have been important in promoting knowledge of medicine. The public autopsy of Dr. Johann Gaspar Spurzheim, advocate of phrenology, was conducted after his death, and his brain, skull, and heart were removed, preserved in jars of alcohol, and put on display to the public. Public autoposies have sometimes verged on entertainment: American showman P. T. Barnum held a public autopsy of Joice Heth after her death. Heth was a woman whom Barnum had been featuring as being over 160 years old. Barnum charged 50 cents admission. The autopsy demonstrated that she had in fact been between 76 and 80 years old.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2443692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2443692", "title": "RNOV Shabab Oman (1977)", "text": "RNOV Shabab Oman (1977)\n\nRNOV \"Shabab Oman\" is a barquentine which serves as a training ship for the Royal Navy of Oman.\n\nOriginally named the \"Captain Scott\" after explorer Robert Falcon Scott, \"Shabab Oman\" was built as a standing topgallant yard schooner by Herd and McKenzie of Buckie, Scotland in 1971. Built for the Dulverton Trust, she was run by the Loch Eil Trust in programs which combined sail training with onshore expeditions.\n\nIn 1967, Victor Clark and Kurt Hahn had enlisted Prince Philip's aid in finding sponsorship for a new youth-training ship. Clark then skippered her until 1974.\n\nIn 1977, the vessel was sold to Sultan Qābūs bin Sa‘īd of Oman and placed under the purview of the Ministry of Youth. Her name was changed to \"Shabab Oman\", which can be translated as \"Youth of Oman.\" In 1979, she was inducted into the Royal Navy of Oman (RNO) as a sail training ship.\n\nIn 1984, \"Shabab Oman\" was refitted as a barquentine.\n\n\"Shabab Oman\" is constructed of Scottish oak and pine from Uruguay. Her lower masts are aluminum alloy, and her upper masts and spars are rattan plywood\n\nShe is 52 metres long and 30 meters high.\n\nIn 1992 the ship took part in the Gran Regatta de Colon sailing from Cádiz to San Juan, Puerto Rico along with other tall ships from throughout the world led by recreations of the \"Niña\", \"Pinta\", and \"Santa María.\"\n\nIn 1989, J Lawson Modelmakers of Lincolnshire, England were tasked to build a half scale replica of the ship as part of the Sultanate of Oman Navy involvement in the 21st national Day celebrations. The model took some 18 months to plan, procure and manufacture on site in Muscat. \"Shabab Oman\" was replaced by a new ship of the same name in August 2014, but remains moored at the RNOV naval base.\n\nMore here: http://jlawson.com/shabab.html\n"}
{"id": "11050135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050135", "title": "Rapid interactivity", "text": "Rapid interactivity\n\nRapid interactivity is a method for rapidly developing interactive learning technologies. \n\n"}
{"id": "833509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=833509", "title": "Resident assistant", "text": "Resident assistant\n\nA resident assistant (also variously known as a house fellow, resident advisor, community assistant, resident mentor, residence don, peer advisor, community advisor, collegiate fellow, or senior resident), commonly shortened to RA, is a trained peer leader who coordinates activities in resident halls in colleges, universities, or residential mental health and substance abuse facilities., or similar establishments. \n\nAn RA has many roles and responsibilities, including building a residential community through programming, acting as a mentor for students, being a familiar first resource for students with academic or institutional questions, and enforcing residence policies. RAs assist residents with problem solving or refer them to counseling resources. Above all, a resident assistant must be an example and uphold professional and personal accountability as outlined by the institution. \n\nRAs must balance their schedule and priorities with the needs of the students they are supporting. A major component of the job is not only creating a community, but ensuring safety for all by participating in nightly community walks. Other duties include ordering supplies and determining need for maintenance, repairs, and furnishings. They may maintain household records and assign rooms. \n\nAccording to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, the national mean hourly wage of an RA was $13.87 in 2017, and the national mean average annual wage was $28,850. An RA at a college or university does not typically receive an hourly wage, but is compensated in other ways. Common compensations are price-adjusted or free room, free board, and/or stipends. Listed below are two tables of RA hourly and annual mean wage, broken down by individual industries.\n\nIndustries with the highest levels of employment in this occupation:\nTop paying industries for this occupation:\nEach institution has its own duties and requirements for an RA. The following are the more common responsibilities of an RA.\n\nThese duties are a direct result of the leadership portion of the RA position. The RA is often asked to be a liaison from the floor to the Community Coordinator of the building. This requires writing reports, keeping accurate records, and maintaining good communication. RAs are usually required to meet with their building coordinator weekly or bi-weekly to discuss their residents, planned programming, and any other issues or subjects that could affect the ability to perform their responsibilities. The RA may also assist with public relations and housing needs.\n\nThese duties are designated from the values and goals of the institution. This denotes that the RA should be a role model by following the regulations. In addition, the RA could be required to disseminate, explain, and uphold these regulations.\n\nAt the University of Illinois in Urbana Champaign, Resident Advisors are role models, peer advisors, resource referrals, student advocates, and educators. RAs assume leadership roles in creating a positive and friendly atmosphere for students of varied backgrounds. RAs at Illinois develop relationships with their residents on a personal level and try to become a resource to each of them. An RA at Illinois is responsible for a floor of residents, and creates programs and activities for their floor throughout the semester. RAs can point residents in the right direction and help them solve problems by referring them to departments on campus for more extensive help with certain issues. RAs also make sure to address the needs of underrepresented groups of students and work with other staff to incorporate the needs and wishes of these student groups into the community model.\n\nAt Illinois, RAs are compensated with waived fees for housing and meal plans, and are given a monthly stipend of roughly $105.00. RAs have nights where they are on duty, and must complete procedures such as checking the security of the building, making sure residents in the residence halls are safe and don’t have any unaddressed concerns, and be available to anyone who is having problems or needs help with something.\n\nThe job of an RA is to create a community among their residents that is inclusive, welcoming, and comfortable environment for students who are living in university housing. Creating a social and welcoming living space is important for students getting acclimated to a new setting (the college campus) and making sure students feel at home.\n\nThe residents and the RA compose a community, simply by living together in a similar location. The RA may be required to foster this community by having the residents be tolerant and respectful of the other residents and their property, or going so far as to create programming to create a sense of family on the floor or in the building. Community programming may also be a required duty in order to help create a sense of belonging in the living space.\n\nThese duties deal with directly helping the residents as individuals. This requires the RA to know all the residents and be able to help each resident if they run into any problems with each other as well as with other things that may follow. Some problems could pertain to relationships, class-work, or institutional questions. The RA should have the skills to either assist the resident, or know of a resource that the resident can use to solve their problem.\n\nThese duties involve creating a safe and healthy environment for the residents to reside in. Enforcing community standards, such as quiet hours and alcohol and drug policy are frequent occurrences. Fines, bonds, and behavioural contracts can be issued at many universities by RAs. Monitoring floor activity and helping with conflict resolution between residents is another important security related duty of the RA.\n\nThis refers to assisting residents in making a smooth transition into campus life by getting them involved in traditional activities in their institution such as homecoming events, for example.\n\nThis refers to academic development and social awareness. Resident assistants are there to promote the well-being of residents in university housing, and to make sure that residents feel like they have enough resources available to them and know how to use them. RAs may try to teach students about social justice and inclusivity, and take students to places on campus where they can learn more about social justice and groups with differing identities. RAs can show students where to go when they need academic help or advice, and can even offer advice of their own as they are often older students with more experience.\n\nThis refers to the personal development of residents that enables them to gain a level of self-awareness.\n\nResident assistants must encourage self-awareness and personal accountability amongst the residents.\n\nOne way these elements can be achieved is through programming. This is a major aspect of the job for a resident assistant. Programming can come in three different forms. This includes planned, passive, and take. A planned program is an event created or co-sponsored by the resident assistant. This event is specifically tailored to fit the needs and/or interests of the residents. Sometimes RAs are required to have one planned event for their residents a month, as well as contribute to a building program once a semester in which they work with other RAs to create a meaningful program for the whole building. A passive program is one that is completed without assembling or direct interaction between the residents and/or the resident assistant. Passive programs are generally used to start a conversation on a particular issue affecting the residents. These programs can range from a bulletin board that can be casually read in passing, or they can be more interactive like taking a survey, for example. Finally, take programs require the resident assistant to accompany residents to an event which can include an on-campus program such as an institution sponsored event, a basketball game or perhaps a movie. All these programs help to develop a community amongst residents and incorporate the core values mentioned above.\n\nActive Program Ideas: Mocktails (alcohol safety), Condom Olympics (sex ed), DIY air freshners with baking soda and essential oils (Hygiene), DIY Tote bags from old t shirts (Sustainability), Icecream Social (Icebreaker), BJ's and PJS- Ben and jerrys (Sex ed), Paint Nite (Alcohol safety).<br>\n\nPassive Program Ideas: Making a door dec representative for that month (bunnies in March, ornaments in December, pumpkins in October), going door to door and handing out candy/ taping candy on their door, an interactive bulletin board where they can write countries they've been or what they're thankful for in November. \n\nThe term \"senior wardens\", \"student wardens\" or \"senior mentors\" is a position in UK universities similar to that of the resident assistant in the USA. Such positions do not generally entail as much focus on improvement of student life as in the USA, and are instead more directed towards pastoral care of residents along with duties covering security, fire and first-aid along with night/weekend duty work. Furthermore, members of wardenial teams are often expected to contribute to the overall social life of their hall of residence. The positions are most often filled by students undertaking a PhD, although mature students studying for a master's degree have also been known to fill the role. Even undergraduate students from their second year of study onwards can be offered the position, such as what happens at the University of Bradford.\n\nIn Mexico, resident assistants are typically called \"prefectos\". The position has many of the same functions as in the USA, with a few exceptions including taking attendance every night at 11:30pm. The residence halls tend to be mainly of the same sex; therefore attendance is taken every night by a resident assistant to ensure opposite sex guests are no longer in the building.\n\n\nResidential fellow\n\n"}
{"id": "289980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289980", "title": "Scholastic Corporation", "text": "Scholastic Corporation\n\nScholastic Corporation is an American multinational publishing, education and media company known for publishing, selling, and distributing books and educational materials for schools, teachers, parents, and children. Products are distributed to schools and districts, to consumers through the schools via reading clubs and fairs, and through retail stores and online sales. The business has three segments: Children Book Publishing & Distribution (Trade, Book Clubs and Book Fairs), Education, and International. Scholastic holds the perpetual US publishing rights to the \"Harry Potter\" and \"Hunger Games\" book series. Scholastic is the world's largest publisher and distributor of children's books and a leader in print and digital educational materials for pre-K to grade 12.\n\nIn addition to \"Harry Potter\" and \"The Hunger Games\", the company is known for its school book clubs and book fairs, classroom magazines such as \"Scholastic News\", and popular book series: \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", \"Goosebumps\", \"The Magic School Bus\", \"Captain Underpants\", \"Animorphs\", and \"I Spy\". Scholastic also publishes instructional reading and writing programs, and offers professional learning and consultancy services for school improvement. Clifford the Big Red Dog serves as the mascot for Scholastic.\n\nIn 1920, Maurice R. \"Robbie\" Robinson founded the business he named Scholastic Publishing Company in his hometown of Wilkinsburg, right outside Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. As a publisher of youth magazines, the first publication was \"The Western Pennsylvania Scholastic.\" It covered high school sports and social activities and debuted on October 22, 1920.\n\nIn 1926, Scholastic published its first book, \"Saplings\", a collection of selected student writings by winners of the Scholastic Writing Awards.\n\nFor many years the company continued its focus on serving the youth market, publishing low-cost magazines and later paperback books. The company continued under the name Scholastic Magazines throughout the 1970s.\n\nAfter World War II, cheap paperback books became available. In 1948, Scholastic entered the school book club business with its division T.A.B., or Teen Age Book Club, offering classic titles priced at 25 cents.\n\nIn 1957, Scholastic established its first international subsidiary in Toronto Scholastic Canada, later moving to Markham, Ontario.\n\nBy the 1960s, international publishing locations were added in England (1964), New Zealand (1964) and Sydney (1968).\n\nIn 1974, Richard \"Dick\" Robinson, the son of founder M. R. Robinson, became president of Scholastic Inc. Named chief executive officer in 1975 and chairman in 1982, he remains in these positions.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Scholastic was well known for Scholastic Book Clubs, a book purchasing service delivered through schools, and magazine publications aimed at youths: \"Wow\" (preschoolers and elementary schoolers), \"Dynamite\" (pre-teens), and \"Bananas\" (teens). Scholastic now publishes 33 classroom magazines including \"Scholastic News\", \"Action\", \"Scope\", \"Storyworks\", \"SuperScience\", \"Science World\", \"Math\" and more, that reach 14 million readers.\n\nThe Scholastic Education business sells instructional reading and writing programs such as Guided and leveled reading and print and digital classroom magazines, along with professional learning programs and consulting/training on Family & Community Engagement and Learning Supports. Classroom Magazines have 15 million subscribers.\n\nDuring the mid-1990s, Scholastic entered the educational technology market, working with Dr. Ted Hasselbring of Vanderbilt University to create READ 180, a blended-learning, reading intervention program for students in grades 4 through 12 who are two or more grades below grade level. Since then, READ 180 has been listed in the What Works Clearinghouse and has a record of positive results in a wide range of efficacy studies with various student populations, including special education students and English language learners. Scholastic Education has since created SYSTEM 44, a technology-based phonics program for students in grades 3 through 12, iREAD, a supplemental educational technology program for grades K-2, MATH 180, mathematics intervention for middle school, and FasttMath, a technology based program to teach basic math facts. The EdTech and Services business was sold to Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in 2015 for $575 million.\n\nTo appeal to American children, in 1997, Scholastic (through Arthur A. Levine Books) purchased the US publication rights to the first \"Harry Potter\" book, \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\", which was renamed \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\". It continues to publish \"Harry Potter\" books, each title a best seller.\n\nScholastic's growth has continued by acquiring other media companies. In February 2012, it bought Weekly Reader Publishing from Reader's Digest Association, and announced in July that year that it planned to discontinue separate issues of \"Weekly Reader\" magazines after more than a century of publication, and co-branded the magazines as \"Scholastic News/Weekly Reader\". Other acquisitions include Klutz in 2002, and the reference publisher Grolier, which publishes the \"Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia\" and \"The New Book of Knowledge\" in 2000 and Weston Woods Studios in 1996. In 2015, Scholastic acquired Troubadour, Ltd. in the U.K.\n\nDuring the 2000 presidential election, Scholastic organized the Scholastic News Kids Press Corps, which today includes more than 30 national and International kid reporters ages 10–14.\n\nFounded in 1923 by Maurice R. Robinson, The Scholastic Art & Writing Awards, administered by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, have motivated more than 13 million students, recognized more than 9 million young artists and writers, and provided more than $25 million in awards and scholarships. These Awards have been the largest source of scholarship funding for teenage artists and writers, and the nation's longest-running, most prestigious art and writing awards.\n\nIn the U.S.A, the process begins as young artists and writers submit creative works to the Alliance's regional affiliates. The most outstanding works of art and writing (Gold Key and Silver Key winners) from each region are forwarded to the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers in New York City to be reviewed on a national level. Panels of professional jurors select the national award recipients. Regional awards are administered by a network of nearly 100 affiliates that include school systems and school boards, nonprofit organizations, government agencies, foundations, arts agencies, businesses, libraries, museums, teacher councils and institutions of higher education, which share a commitment to identifying emerging local artists and writers.\n\nThe Awards recognize written and artistic works in 30 categories, including Architecture, Comic Art, Ceramics & Glass, Digital Art, Design, Drawing, Fashion, Film & Animation, Jewelry, Mixed Media, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, Sculpture, Video Games, Art Portfolio, Photography Portfolio, Dramatic Script, Humor, Journalism, Personal Essay/Memoir, Persuasive Writing, Poetry, Novel Writing, Science Fiction/Fantasy, Short Story, Short, Short Story, General Writing Portfolio, Nonfiction Portfolio, and Creativity & Citizenship.\n\nRecipients of The Scholastic Art and Writing Awards include Richard Anuszkiewicz, Richard Avedon, Harry Bertoia, Mel Bochner, Truman Capote, Paul Davis, Frances Farmer, Red Grooms, Robert Indiana, Bernard Malamud, Joyce Maynard, Joyce Carol Oates, Philip Pearlstein, Peter S. Beagle, Sylvia Plath, Robert Redford, Jean Stafford, Mozelle Thompson, Ned Vizzini, Kay WalkingStick, Andy Warhol, and Charles White, all of whom won when they were in high school.\n\nIn March 2018, author James Patterson announced an increase in his annual donations for classroom libraries from $1.75 million to $2 million, in a program run in conjunction with the Scholastic Book Clubs. Patterson is also distributing 4,000 gifts of $500 each to teachers around the country.\n\nTrade Publishing Imprints include:\n\nCorporate divisions:\n\n\n\nScholastic Media is a corporate division\nled by Deborah Forte since 1995.\nIt covers \"all forms of media and consumer products, and is four main groups – Productions, Marketing & Consumer Products, Interactive, and Audio.\" Weston Woods is its production studio, acquired in 1996, as was Soup2Nuts from 2001–2015 before shutting down.\n\nScholastic has produced audiobooks such as the Caldecott/Newbery Collection;\nTV serial adaptations such as \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", \"Animorphs\", \"The Magic School Bus\", and \"Goosebumps\"; and feature films such as the \"Harry Potter\" series, \"Tuck Everlasting\", \"Clifford's Really Big Movie\", \"Goosebumps\", \"The Golden Compass,\" and \".\" It will produce the \"39 Clues\" and as Scholastic Productions produced the series \"Voyagers!\", \"My Secret Identity\", and \"Charles in Charge\".\n\nScholastic book clubs are offered at schools in many countries. Typically, teachers administer the program to the students in their own classes, but in some cases, the program is administered by a central contact for the entire school. Within Scholastic, Reading Clubs is a separate unit (compared to, e.g., Education). Reading clubs are arranged by age/grade.\n\nScholastic also offers a host of specialty book club fliers including Club Leo (Spanish language for grades K–8), and Click (Computer games and media for all ages).\n\nScholastic typically offers participating schools and classrooms 1 \"point\" for every dollar (or local unit of currency) of products ordered. Additional points may be earned during special promotion times, such as the beginning of the school year. Points may then be redeemed for books and school supplies at a rate of approximately 20 points to the dollar. At minimum, schools earn 5% of book orders in free products. With special promotions, return rate can be higher (15–100%).\n\nScholastic Parents Media publishes the Scholastic Parent & Children Magazine. The group also specializes in online advertising sales and custom programs designed for parents and children ages 0–6.\n\nScholastic has been criticized for inappropriately marketing to children. Also, Scholastic now requires parents to submit children's names with birth dates to place online orders, creating controversy. A significant number of titles carried have strong media tie-ins and are considered relatively short in literary and artistic merit by some critics. Consumer groups have also attacked Scholastic for selling too many toys and video games to children, rather than focusing on just books. \nIn July, 2005, Scholastic determined that certain leases previously accounted for as operating leases should have been accounted for as capital leases. The cumulative effect, if recorded in the current year, would be material. As a result, it decided to restate its financial statements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22631667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22631667", "title": "Sci-Mate", "text": "Sci-Mate\n\nSci-Mate is an open collaboration of scientists using Web 2.0 software to address well known challenges in academic publishing and technology transfer. The site provides free access to a collection of Web 2.0 software applications intended to make it easier for researchers and developers to bring together the necessary knowledge, tools and people for productive research and/or development.\n\nA demo version of the site was launched in April 2009, which included software supporting Articles, Discussion, Embedding and Item Exchange. Prior to launch the site was reviewed by \"The Australian\" and on ABC's Future Tense program. More recently the site was described in the December 2009 issue of the European Journal of Immunology in the lead up to the 1st Virtual Immunology Conference (VIC 2010).\n\nThe site's terms and conditions state that it is research, not profit, oriented, and is intended to be owned, controlled and run by its community of research scientist members.\n\nArticles on sci-mate use Web 2.0 solutions for scientists to put their knowledge initially into open access articles, which can be ultimately published in 'traditional' formats. Sci-Mate articles record authorship and an automatic claim of copyright on behalf of contributors instantly protects the rights of original content. Owners of IP can define their own licenses, but grant permission for editors to manage content within articles to simplify publication issues. When content is of sufficient standard, an interactive review process allows other scientists to provide quality control prior to submission.\n\nA Simple Machines Forum is integrated into the site to allow researchers to quickly clarify issues or disseminate information that is not intended for publication.\n\nThe Material Transfer Environment (MaTE) is intended to allow researchers to clearly describe any item that might be of interest to other researchers and developers and the conditions of supply. The sort of items described that could be listed on the site include: research tools, such as antibodies, plasmids, software, equipment, cell lines, animal models, etc.; services, such as assays, consultancies, analysis, customized products, etc.; technology transfer; items wanted; project proposals; grants and funding opportunities; jobs; training opportunities; conferences; and seminars. As well as allowing suppliers to define conditions up-front through a material transfer agreement, suppliers can also issue restricted users licenses to avoid unhealthy competition.\n\nOnce an item is listed, the software should help researchers manage interactions, answer questions, evaluate requests and distribute material. The software provides tools for IP management in the form of records, reports and data-flows to researchers, administrative staff and other controlling interests. This makes it possible for researchers to initiate the commercial distribution of items, although employers can appoint administrators to monitor and take over distribution at any time to ensure the best return for the researcher and other controlling interests.\n\nThe site allows for embedded web content, such as software applications or informative video or text content, along with descriptive text. Ratings and reviews help sort content by relevance to researchers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1949071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949071", "title": "Settlement movement", "text": "Settlement movement\n\nThe settlement movement was a reformist social movement that began in the 1880s and peaked around the 1920s in England and the U.S. Its goal was to bring the rich and the poor of society together in both physical proximity and social interconnectedness. Its main object was the establishment of \"settlement houses\" in poor urban areas, in which volunteer middle-class \"settlement workers\" would live, hoping to share knowledge and culture with, and alleviate the poverty of, their low-income neighbors. The \"settlement houses\" provided services such as daycare, education, and healthcare to improve the lives of the poor in these areas.\n\nThe movement started in London in 1884 with the founding of Toynbee Hall. These houses, radically different from those in America, often offered food, shelter, and basic and higher education, provided by virtue of charity on part of wealthy donors, the residents of the city, and (for education) scholars who volunteered their time.\n\nVictorian England, increasingly concerned with poverty, gave rise to the movement whereby those connected to universities settled students in slum areas to live and work alongside local people. Through their efforts settlement houses were established for education, savings, sports, and arts. Such institutions were often praised by religious representatives concerned with the lives of the poor, and criticised as normative or moralistic by radical social movements.\n\nThere were basic commonalities in the movement. These institutions were more concerned with societal causes for poverty, especially the changes that came with industrialisation, rather than personal causes which their predecessors believed were the main reason for poverty. The settlement movement believed that social reform was best pursued and pushed for by private charities.\nThe British Association of Settlements and Social Action Centres is a network of such organisations. During the social Christian movement, Samuel and Henrietta Barnett founded Toynbee Hall, Oxford House in 1884 in Bethnal Green. Other early examples include Browning Hall, formed in Walworth in 1895 by Francis Herbert Stead, and Mansfield House Settlement, also in east London (see Percy Alden). There is also a global network, the International Federation of Settlements.\n\nThe movement gave rise to many social policy initiatives and innovative ways of working to improve the conditions of the most excluded members of society. The Poor Man's Lawyer service came about because a barrister volunteered his time and encouraged his friends to do the same. In general, the settlement movement, and settlement houses in particular, \"have been a foundation for social work practice in this country\".\n\nAs higher education opened up to women, young female graduates brought their energy to the settlement movement. The Women's University Settlement (now Blackfriars Settlement) was founded in 1887 \"by women from Girton and Newnham Colleges at Cambridge University, Lady Margaret and Somerville Colleges at Oxford University and Bedford and Royal Holloway Universities\".\n\nBetween 1890 and 1910, more than 12 million European people immigrated to the United States. They came from Ireland, Russia, Italy and other European countries and provided cheap factory labor, a demand that was created with the country's expansion into the west following the Civil War. Many immigrants lived in crowded and disease-ridden tenements, worked long hours, and lived in poverty. Children often worked to help support the family. Jacob Riis wrote \"How the Other Half Lives\" about the lives of immigrants on New York City's Lower East Side to bring greater awareness of the immigrant's living conditions.\n\nThe most famous settlement house in the United States is Chicago's Hull House, founded by Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr in 1889 after Addams visited Toynbee Hall within the previous two years. Hull House, though, was not a religious-based organization. It focused on providing education and recreational facilities for European immigrant women and children. Katharine Coman, Vida Scudder, and Katharine Lee Bates were among a group of women who founded Denison House in Boston in 1892. Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, founded in 1894, Friendly Inn Settlement House, founded in 1874, Henry Street Settlement, founded in 1893, Hiram House, founded in 1896, and University Settlement House, founded in 1886 and the oldest in the United States, were, like Hull House, important sites for social reform. United Neighborhood Houses of New York is the federation of 38 settlement houses in New York City. These and other settlement houses inspired the establishment of settlement schools to serve isolated rural communities in Appalachia, such as the Hindman Settlement School in 1902 and the Pine Mountain Settlement School in 1913.\n\nBy 1913, there were 413 settlements in 32 states. By the 1920s, there were almost 500 settlement houses in the country. The settlement house concept was continued by Dorothy Day's Catholic Worker \"hospitality houses\" in the 1930s.\n\nAmerican settlement houses functioned on a philosophy of “scientific philanthropy,” a belief that instead of giving direct relief, charities should give resources to the poor so they could break out of the circle of poverty. American charity workers feared that the deeply entrenched social class system in Europe would develop in the United States.\n\nThe movement also spread to late imperial Russia, as Stanislav Shatsky and Alexander Zelenko set up a network of educational and social institutions in northern Moscow in 1905, naming it \"Setlement\" (\"\", the English word transliterated to Russian). This network of institutions was closed down by the government in 1908, due to alleged socialist activities.\n\nToday, settlements are still community-focused organizations, providing a range of services including early education, youth guidance and crime intervention, senior programs, and specialized programs for young people who have \"aged out\" of the foster care system. Since they are staffed by professional employees and students, they no longer require that employees live alongside those they serve.\n\nSettlement houses influenced urban design and architecture in the 20th century. \nFor example, James Rossant of Conklin + Rossant agreed with Robert E. Simon's social vision and consciously sought to mix economic backgrounds when drawing up the master plan for Reston, Virginia. The New Monastic movement has a similar goal and model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2351973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2351973", "title": "Study skills", "text": "Study skills\n\nStudy skills, \"academic skill\", or \"study strategies\" are approaches applied to learning. They are generally critical to success in school, considered essential for acquiring good grades, and useful for learning throughout one's life. \n\nStudy skills are an array of skills which tackle the process of organizing and taking in new information, retaining information, or dealing with assessments. They include mnemonics, which aid the retention of lists of information; effective reading; concentration techniques; and efficient notetaking.\n\nWhile often left up to the student and their support network, study skills are increasingly taught in high school and at the university level. \n\nMore broadly, any skill which boosts a person's ability to study, retain and recall information which assists in and passing exams can be termed a study skill, and this could include time management and motivational techniques.\n\nStudy skills are discrete techniques that can be learned, usually in a short time, and applied to all or most fields of study. They must therefore be distinguished from strategies that are specific to a particular field of study (e.g. music or technology), and from abilities inherent in the student, such as aspects of intelligence or learning styles.\n\nThe term \"study skills\" is used for general approaches to learning, skills for specific courses of study. There are many theoretical works on the subject, including a vast number of popular books and websites. Manuals for students have been published since the 1940s .\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, college instructors in the fields of psychology and the study of education used research, theory, and experience with their own students in writing manuals. Marvin Cohn based the advice for parents in his 1978 book \"Helping Your Teen-Age Student\" on his experience as a researcher and head of a university reading clinic that tutored teenagers and young adults. In 1986, when \"Dr. Gary Gruber’s Essential Guide to Test Taking for Kids\" was first published, the author had written 22 books on taking standardized tests. A work in two volumes, one for upper elementary grades and the other for middle school, the \"Guide\" has methods for taking tests and completing schoolwork.\n\nMemorization is the process of committing something to memory. The act of memorization is often a deliberate mental process undertaken in order to store in memory for later recall items such as experiences, names, appointments, addresses, telephone numbers, lists, stories, poems, pictures, maps, diagrams, facts, music or other visual, auditory, or tactical information. Memorization may also refer to the process of storing particular data into the memory of a device. \nOne of the most basic approaches to learning any information is simply to repeat it by rote. Typically this will include reading over notes or a textbook, and re-writing notes.\n\nThe weakness with rote learning is that it implies a passive reading and listening style. Educators such as John Dewey have argued that students need to learn critical thinking – questioning and weighing up evidence as they learn. This can be done during lectures or when reading books.\n\nA method that is useful during the first interaction with the subject of study is REAP method. This method helps students to improve their understanding of the text and bridge the idea with that of the author's. REAP is an acronym for Read, Encode, Annotate and Ponder.\n\n\nAnnotating and Encoding helps the student reprocess the content into concise and coherent knowledge which adds a meaningful symbolic fund of knowledge. Precis annotation, Organizing question annotation, Intentional annotation and Probe annotation are some of the annotation methods used.\n\nA method used to focus on key information when studying from books uncritically is the PQRST method. This method prioritizes the information in a way that relates directly to how they will be asked to use that information in an exam. PQRST is an acronym for Preview, Question, Read, Summary, Test.\n\n\nThere are a variety of studies from different colleges nationwide that show peer-communication can help increase better study habits tremendously. One study shows that an average of 73% score increase was recorded by those who were enrolled in the classes surveyed.\n\nSpeed reading, while trainable, results in lower accuracy, comprehension, and understanding.\n\nFlashcards are visual cues on cards. These have numerous uses in teaching and learning, but can be used for revision. Students often make their own flashcards, or more detailed index cards – cards designed for filing, often A5 size, on which short summaries are written. Being discrete and separate, they have the advantage of allowing students to re-order them, pick a selection to read over, or choose randomly for self-testing. Software equivalents can be used.\n\nSummary methods vary depending on the topic, but most involve condensing the large amount of information from a course or book into shorter notes. Often, these notes are then condensed further into key facts.\n\nOrganized summaries: Such as outlines showing keywords and definitions and relations, usually in a tree structure.\n\nSpider diagrams: Using spider diagrams or mind maps can be an effective way of linking concepts together. They can be useful for planning essays and essay responses in exams. These tools can give a visual summary of a topic that preserves its logical structure, with lines used to show how different parts link together.\n\nSome learners are thought to have a visual learning style, and will benefit greatly from taking information from their studies which are often heavily verbal, and using visual techniques to help encode and retain it in memory.\n\nSome memory techniques make use of visual memory, for example the method of loci, a system of visualising key information in real physical locations e.g. around a room.\n\nDiagrams are often underrated tools. They can be used to bring all the information together and provide practice reorganizing what has been learned in order to produce something practical and useful. They can also aid the recall of information learned very quickly, particularly if the student made the diagram while studying the information. Pictures can then be transferred to flashcards that are very effective last-minute revision tools rather than rereading any written material.\n\nA mnemonic is a method of organizing and memorizing information. Some use a simple phrase or fact as a trigger for a longer list of information. For example, the cardinal points of the compass can be recalled in the correct order with the phrase \"Never Eat Shredded Wheat\". Starting with North, the first letter of each word relates to a compass point in clockwise order round a compass. \n\nThe Black-Red-Green method (developed through the Royal Literary Fund) helps the student to ensure that every aspect of the question posed has been considered, both in exams and essays. The student underlines relevant parts of the question using three separate colors (or some equivalent). BLAck denotes 'BLAtant instructions', i.e. something that clearly must be done; a directive or obvious instruction. REd is a REference Point or REquired input of some kind, usually to do with definitions, terms, cited authors, theory, etc. (either explicitly referred to or strongly implied). GREen denotes GREmlins, which are subtle signals one might easily miss, or a ‘GREEN Light’ that gives a hint on how to proceed, or where to place the emphasis in answers . Another popular method whilst studying is to P.E.E; Point, evidence and explain, reason being, this helps the student break down exam questions allowing them to maximize their marks/grade during the exam. Many Schools will encourage practicing the P.E. BEing method prior to an exam.\n\nSpacing, also called distributed learning by some; helps individuals remember at least as much if not more information for a longer period of time than using only one study skill. Using spacing in addition to other study methods can improve retention and performance on tests. Spacing is especially useful for retaining and recalling new material. The theory of spacing is that instead of cramming all studying into one long study session an individual would split that single session to a few shorter sessions that are hours, if not days apart. Studying will not last longer than it would have originally and one is not working harder but this tool gives the user the ability to remember and recall things for a longer time period. The science behind this; according to Jost’s Law from 1897 “If two associations are of equal strength but of different age, a new repetition has a greater value for the older one”. This means that if a person were to study two things once, at different times, the one studied most recently will be easier to recall.\n\nOften, improvements to the effectiveness of study may be achieved through changes to things unrelated to the study material itself, such as time-management, boosting motivation and avoiding procrastination, and in improvements to sleep and diet.\n\nTime management in study sessions aims to ensure that activities that achieve the greatest benefit are given the greatest focus. A traffic lights system is a simple way of identifying the importance of information, highlighting or underlining information in colours:\n\nThis reminds students to start with the things which will provide the quickest benefit, while 'red' topics are only dealt with if time allows. The concept is similar to the ABC analysis, commonly used by workers to help prioritize. Also, some websites (such as FlashNotes) can be used for additional study materials and may help improve time management and increase motivation.\n\nIn addition to time management, sleep is important; getting adequate rest improves memorisation. Students are generally more productive in the morning than the afternoon. \n\nIn addition to time management and sleep, emotional state of mind can matter when a student is studying.If an individual is calm or nervous in class; replicating that emotion can assist in studying. With replicating the emotion an individual is more likely to recall more information if they are in the same state of mind when in class. This also goes the other direction; if one is upset but normally calm in class it’s much better to wait until they are feeling calmer to study. At the time of the test or class they will remember more. \n\nStudying can also be more effective if one changes their environment while studying. For example: the first time studying the material, one can study in a bedroom, the second time one can study outside, and the final time one can study in a coffee shop. The thinking behind this is that as when an individual changes their environment the brain associates different aspects of the learning and gives a stronger hold and additional brain pathways with which to access the information. In this context environment can mean many things; from location, to sounds, to smells, to other stimuli including foods. When discussing environment in regards to its effect on studying and retention Carey says “a simple change in venue improved retrieval strength (memory) by 40 percent.” Another change in the environment can be background music; if people study with music playing and they are able to play the same music during test time they will recall more of the information they studied. According to Carey “background music weaves itself subconsciously into the fabric of stored memory.” This “distraction” in the background helps to create more vivid memories with the studied material.\n\nHomework completion is typically irrelevant to academic performance. \n\nAnalogies can create misleading or superficial mental models in learners. \n\nThere is some support for the efficacy of concept mapping as a learning tool.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "485700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485700", "title": "Teaching hospital", "text": "Teaching hospital\n\nA teaching hospital is a hospital or medical center that provides medical education and training to future and current health professionals. Teaching hospitals are often affiliated with medical schools and work closely with medical students throughout their period of matriculation, and especially during their clerkship (internship) years. In most cases, teaching hospitals also offer Graduate Medical Education (GME)/ physician residency programs, where medical school graduates train under a supervising (attending) physician to assist with the coordination of care. \n\nIn addition to offering medical education to medical students and physician residents, many teaching hospitals also serve as research institutes.\n\nAlthough institutions for caring for the sick are known to have existed much earlier in history, the first teaching hospital, where students were authorized to methodically practice on patients under the supervision of physicians as part of their education, was reportedly the Academy of Gundishapur in the Persian Empire during the Sassanid era.\n\nMany American television shows, usually medical dramas, take place in teaching hospitals. Some examples are:\n\n\nSome Canadian shows take place in teaching hospitals as well. For example, \"Saving Hope\" takes place in the fictional Hope Zion Hospital (located in Toronto).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the 1980s television documentary series \"Jimmy's\" was set in St James's University Hospital, Leeds (nicknamed Jimmy's), which formerly claimed to be the largest teaching hospital in Europe.\n\nParis has many renowned teaching hospitals: Pitié-Salpêtrière, Cochin, Necker or Hôtel-Dieu. They appear in many films and TV shows. An \"ER\" episode, for example, is set in Hôpital Saint-Antoine (AP-HP). Many patients are surprised to see medical students at their bedside: they know they are in top hospitals without knowing those hospitals are teaching hospitals.\n\nA scene in the 1992 film, Lorenzo's Oil, Lorenzo is shown at the Boston Children's Hospital\n\n"}
{"id": "1177467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177467", "title": "Telehealth", "text": "Telehealth\n\nTelehealth involves the distribution of health-related services and information via electronic information and telecommunication technologies. It allows long distance patient/clinician contact and care, advice, reminders, education, intervention, monitoring and remote admissions. As well as provider distance-learning; meetings, supervision, and presentations between practitioners; online information and health data management and healthcare system integration. Telehealth could include two clinicians discussing a case over video conference; a robotic surgery occurring through remote access; physical therapy done via digital monitoring instruments, live feed and application combinations; tests being forwarded between facilities for interpretation by a higher specialist; home monitoring through continuous sending of patient health data; client to practitioner online conference; or even videophone interpretation during a consult.\n\nAs the population grows and ages, and medical advances are made which prolong life, demands increase on the healthcare system. Healthcare providers are also being asked to do more, with no increase in funding, or are encouraged to move to new models of funding and care such as patient-centered or outcomes based, rather than fee-for-service. Some specific health professions already have a shortage (i.e. Speech-language pathologists). When rural settings, lack of transport, lack of mobility (i.e. In the elderly or disabled), decreased funding or lack of staffing restrict access to care, telehealth can bridge the gap.\n\nTelehealth is sometimes discussed interchangeably with telemedicine. The Health Resources and Services Administration distinguishes telehealth from telemedicine in its scope. According to them, telemedicine only describes remote clinical services; such as diagnosis and monitoring, while telehealth includes preventative, promotive and curative care delivery. This includes the above-mentioned non-clinical applications like administration and provider education which make telehealth the preferred modern terminology.\n\nThe development and history of telehealth or telemedicine (terms used interchangeably in literature) is deeply rooted in the history and development in not only technology but also society itself. Humans have long sought to relay important messages through torches, optical telegraphy, electroscopes, and wireless transmission. In the 21st century, with the advent of the internet, portable devices and other such digital devices are taking a transformative role in healthcare and its delivery.\n\nAlthough, traditional medicine relies on in-person care, the need and want for remote care has existed from the Roman and pre-Hippocratic periods in antiquity. The elderly and infirm who could not visit temples for medical care sent representatives to convey information on symptoms and bring home a diagnosis as well as treatment. In Africa, villagers would use smoke signals to warn neighbouring villages of disease outbreak. The beginnings of telehealth have existed through primitive forms of communication and technology.\n\nAs technology developed and wired communication became increasingly commonplace, the ideas surrounding telehealth began emerging. The earliest telehealth encounter can be traced to Alexander Graham Bell in 1876, when he used his early telephone as a means of getting help from his assistant Mr. Watson after he spilt acid on his trousers. Another instance of early telehealth, specifically telemedicine was reported in \"The Lancet\" in 1879. An anonymous writer described a case where a doctor successfully diagnosed a child over the telephone in the middle of the night. This Lancet issue, also further discussed the potential of Remote Patient Care in order to avoid unnecessary house visits, which were part of routine health care during the 1800s. Other instances of telehealth during this period came from the American Civil War, during which telegraphs were used to deliver mortality lists and medical care to soldiers.\n\nFrom the late 1800s to the early 1900s the early foundations of wireless communication were laid down. Radios provided an easier and near instantaneous form of communication. The use of radio to deliver healthcare became accepted for remote areas. The Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia is an example of the early adoption of radios in telehealth.\n\nWhen the American National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), began plans to send astronauts into space, the need for Telemedicine became clear. In order to monitor their astronauts in space, telemedicine capabilities were built into the spacecraft as well as the first spacesuits. Additionally, during this period, telehealth and Telemedicine were promoted in different countries especially the United States and Canada.\n\nIn 1964, the Nebraska Psychiatric Institute began using television links to form two-way communication with the Norfolk State Hospital which was 112 miles away for the education and consultation purposes between clinicians in the two locations. The Logan International Airport in Boston established in-house medical stations in 1967. These stations were linked to Massachusetts General Hospital. Clinicians at the hospital would provide consultation services to patients who were at the airport. Consultations were achieved through microwave audio as well as video links.\n\nIn 1972 the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in the United States approved funding for seven telemedicine projects across different states. This funding was renewed and two further projects were funded the following year.\n\nTelehealth projects underway before and during the 1980s would take off but fail to enter mainstream healthcare. As a result, this period of telehealth history is called the \"maturation\" stage and made way for sustainable growth. Although State funding in North America was beginning to run low, different hospitals began to launch their own telehealth initiatives. Additionally, NASA started experimenting with their ATS-3 satellite. Eventually, NASA started their SateLife/HealthNet programme which tried to increase the health services connectivity in developing countries.\n\nThe combination of sustained growth, the advent of the internet and the increasing adoption of ICT in traditional methods of care spurred the revival or \"renaissance\" of telehealth. The diffusion of portable devices like laptops and mobile devices in everyday life made ideas surrounding telehealth more plausible. Telehealth is no longer bound within the realms of telemedicine but has expanded itself to promotion, prevention and education.\n\nTelehealth requires a strong, reliable broadband connection. The broadband signal transmission infrastructure includes wires, cables, microwaves and optic fibre, which must be maintained for the provision of telehealth services. The better the connection (bandwidth quality), the more data can be sent and received. Historically this has priced providers or patients out of the service, but as the infrastructure improves and becomes more accessible, telehealth usage can grow.\n\nWhen a healthcare service decides to provide telehealth to its patients, there are steps to consider, besides just whether the above resources are available. A needs assessment is the best way to start, which includes assessing the access the community currently has to the proposed specialists and care, whether the organisation currently has underutilized equipment which will make them useful to the area they are trying to service, and the hardships they are trying to improve by providing the access to their intended community (i.e. Travel time, costs, time off work). A service then needs to consider potential collaborators. Other services may exist in the area with similar goals who could be joined to provide a more holistic service, and/or they may already have telehealth resources available. The more services involved, the easier to spread the cost of IT, training, workflow changes and improve buy-in from clients. Services need to have the patience to wait for the accrued benefits of providing their telehealth service and cannot necessarily expect community-wide changes reflected straight away.\n\nOnce the need for a Telehealth service is established, delivery can come within four distinct domains. They are live video (synchronous), store-and-forward (asynchronous), remote patient monitoring, and mobile health. Live video involves a real-time two-way interaction, such as patient/caregiver-provider or provider-provider, over a digital (i.e. broadband) connection. This often is used to substitute a face to face meeting such as consults, and saves time and cost in travel. Store-and-forward is when data is collected, recorded, and then sent on to a provider. For example, a patient's' digital health history file including x-rays and notes, being securely transmitted electronically to evaluate the current case. Remote patient monitoring includes patients' medical and health data being collected and transferred to a provider elsewhere who can continue to monitor the data and any changes that may occur. This may best suit cases that require ongoing care such as rehabilitation, chronic care, or elderly clients trying to stay in the community in their own homes as opposed to a care facility. Mobile health includes any health information, such as education, monitoring and care, that is present on and supported by mobile communication devices such as cell phones or tablet computers. This might include an application, or text messaging services like appointment reminders or public health warning systems.\n\nTelehealth is a modern form of health care delivery. Telehealth breaks away from traditional health care delivery by using modern telecommunication systems including wireless communication methods. Traditional health is legislated through policy to ensure the safety of medical practitioners and patients. Consequently, since telehealth is a new form of health care delivery that is now gathering momentum in the health sector, many organizations have started to legislate the use of telehealth into policy. In New Zealand, the Medical Council has a statement about telehealth on their website. This illustrates that the medical council has foreseen the importance that telehealth will have on the health system and have started to introduce telehealth legislation to practitioners along with government.\n\nTraditional use of telehealth services has been for specialist treatment. However, there has been a paradigm shift and telehealth is no longer considered a specialist service. This development has ensured that many access barriers are eliminated, as medical professionals are able to use wireless communication technologies to deliver health care. This is evident in rural communities. For individuals living in rural communities, specialist care can be some distance away, particularly in the next major city. Telehealth eliminates this barrier, as health professionals are able to conduct a medical consultation through the use of wireless communication technologies. However, this process is dependent on both parties having Internet access.\n\nTelehealth allows the patient to be monitored between physician office visits which can improve patient health. Telehealth also allows patients to access expertise which is not available in their local area. This remote patient monitoring ability enables patients to stay at home longer and helps avoid unnecessary hospital time. In the long-term, this could potentially result in less burdening of the healthcare system and consumption of resources.\n\nThe technological advancement of wireless communication devices is a major development in telehealth. This allows patients to self-monitor their health conditions and to not rely as much on health care professionals. Furthermore, patients are more willing to stay on their treatment plans as they are more invested and included in the process, decision-making is shared. Technological advancement also means that health care professionals are able to use better technologies to treat patients for example in surgery. Technological developments in telehealth are essential to improve health care, especially the delivery of healthcare services, as resources are finite along with an ageing population that is living longer.\n\nTelehealth allows multiple, different disciplines to merge and deliver a much more uniform level of care using the efficiency and accessibility of everyday technology. As telehealth proliferates mainstream healthcare and challenges notions of traditional healthcare delivery, different populations are starting to experience better quality, access and personalised care in their lives.\n\n\"See Also: Health Promotion\" Telehealth can also increase health promotion efforts. These efforts can now be more personalised to the target population and professionals can extend their help into homes or private and safe environments in which patients of individuals can practice, ask and gain health information. Health promotion using telehealth has become increasingly popular in underdeveloped countries where there are very poor physical resources available. There has been a particular push toward mHealth applications as many areas, even underdeveloped ones have mobile phone coverage.\n\nIn developed countries, health promotion efforts using telehealth have been met with some success. The Australian hands-free breastfeeding Google Glass application reported promising results in 2014. This application made in collaboration with the Australian Breastfeeding Association and a tech startup called Small World Social, helped new mothers learn how to breastfeed. Breastfeeding is beneficial to infant health and maternal health and is recommended by the World Health Organisation and health organisations all over the world. Widespread breastfeeding can prevent 820,000 infant deaths globally but the practice is often stopped prematurely or intents to do are disrupted due to lack of social support, know-how or other factors. This application gave mother's hands-free information on breastfeeding, instructions on how to breastfeed and also had an option to call a lactation consultant over Google Hangout. When the trial ended, all participants were reported to be confident in breastfeeding.\n\nTheoretically, the whole health system stands to benefit from telehealth. In a UK telehealth trial done in 2011, it was reported that the cost of health could be dramatically reduced with the use of telehealth monitoring. The usual cost of in vitro fertilisation (IVF) per cycle would be around $15,000, with telehealth it was reduced to $800 per patient. In Alaska the Federal Health Care Access Network which connects 3,000 healthcare providers to communities, engaged in 160,000 telehealth consultations from 2001 and saved the state $8.5 million in travel costs for just Medicaid patients. There are indications telehealth consumes fewer resources and requires fewer people to operate it with shorter training periods to implement initiatives.\n\nHowever, whether or not the standard of health care quality is increasing is quite debatable, with literature refuting such claims. Research is increasingly reporting that clinicians find the process difficult and complex to deal with. Furthermore, there are concerns around informed consent, legality issues as well as legislative issues. Although health care may become affordable with the help of technology, whether or not this care will be \"good\" is the issue.\n\nDue to its digital nature it is often assumed that telehealth saves the health system money. However, the evidence to support this is varied. When conducting economic evaluations of telehealth services, the individuals evaulating them need to be aware of potential outcomes and extraclinical benefits of the telehealth service. \n\n\nWhile many branches of medicine have wanted to fully embrace telehealth for a long time, there are certain risks and barriers which bar the full amalgamation of telehealth into best practice. For a start, it is dubious as to whether a practitioner can fully leave the \"hands-on\" experience behind. Although it is predicted that telehealth will replace many consultations and other health interactions, it cannot yet fully replace a physical examination, this is particularly so in diagnostics, rehabilitation or mental health.\n\nThe benefits posed by telehealth challenge the normative means of healthcare delivery set in both legislation and practice. Therefore, the growing prominence of telehealth is starting to underscore the need for updated regulations, guidelines and legislation which reflect the current and future trends of healthcare practices. Telehealth enables timely and flexible care to patients wherever they may be; although this is a benefit, it also poses threats to privacy, safety, medical licensing and reimbursement. When a clinician and patient are in different locations, it is difficult to determine which laws apply to the context. Once healthcare crosses borders different state bodies are involved in order to regulate and maintain the level of care that is warranted to the patient or telehealth consumer. As it stands, telehealth is complex with many grey areas when put into practice especially as it crosses borders. This effectively limits the potential benefits of telehealth.\n\nAn example of these limitations include the current American reimbursement infrastructure, where Medicare will reimburse for telehealth services only when a patient is living in an area where specialists are in shortage, or in particular rural counties. The area is defined by whether it is a medical facility as opposed to a patient's' home. The site that the practitioner is in, however, is unrestricted. Medicare will only reimburse live video (synchronous) type services, not store-and-forward, mhealth or remote patient monitoring (if it does not involve live-video). Some insurers currently will reimburse telehealth, but not all yet. So providers and patients must go to the extra effort of finding the correct insurers before continuing. Again in America, states generally tend to require that clinicians are licensed to practice in the surgery' state, therefore they can only provide their service if licensed in an area that they do not live in themselves.\n\nMore specific and widely reaching laws, legislations and regulations will have to evolve with the technology. They will have to be fully agreed upon, for example, will all clinicians need full licensing in every community they provide telehealth services too, or could there be a limited use telehealth licence? Would the limited use licence cover all potential telehealth interventions, or only some? Who would be responsible if an emergency was occurring and the practitioner could not provide immediate help – would someone else have to be in the room with the patient at all consult times? Which state, city or country would the law apply in when a breach or malpractice occurred? \n\nA major legal action prompt in telehealth thus far has been issues surrounding online prescribing and whether an appropriate clinician-patient relationship can be established online to make prescribing safe, making this an area that requires particular scrutiny. It may be required that the practitioner and patient involved must meet in person at least once before online prescribing can occur, or that at least a live-video conference must occur, not just impersonal questionnaires or surveys to determine need.\n\n\"Informed consent\" is another issue – should the patient give informed consent to receive online care before it starts? Or will it be implied if it is care that can only practically be given over distance? When telehealth includes the possibility for technical problems such as transmission errors or security breaches or storage which impact on ability to communicate, it may be wise to obtain informed consent in person first, as well as having backup options for when technical issues occur. In person, a patient can see who is involved in their care (namely themselves and their clinician in a consult), but online there will be other involved such as the technology providers, therefore consent may need to involve disclosure of anyone involved in the transmission of the information and the security that will keep their information private, and any legal malpractice cases may need to involve all of those involved as opposed to what would usually just be the practitioner.\n\nThe rate of adoption of telehealth services in any jurisdiction is frequently influenced by factors such as the adequacy and cost of existing conventional health services in meeting patient needs; the policies of governments and/or insurers with respect to coverage and payment for telehealth services; and medical licensing requirements that may inhibit or deter the provision of telehealth second opinions or primary consultations by physicians.\n\nProjections for the growth of the telehealth market are optimistic, and much of this optimism is predicated upon the increasing demand for remote medical care. According to a recent survey, nearly three-quarters of U.S. consumers say they would use telehealth. At present, several major companies along with a bevvy of startups are working to develop a leading presence in the field.\n\nIn the UK, the Government's Care Services minister, Paul Burstow, has stated that telehealth and telecare would be extended over the next five years (2012–2017) to reach three million people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15301469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15301469", "title": "Theatre Zone", "text": "Theatre Zone\n\nTheatreZone is a Professional Equity Theatre Company located in Naples, Florida. It performs in the G&L Theatre on the Campus of The Community School of Naples at 13275 Livingston Road. TheatreZone is Collier County Florida's only resident Professional Equity Regional Theatre Company. The company concentrates on performing what it calls \"The Lost Treasures Of Broadway\", shows that are rarely performed and deserve to be seen.\nTheatreZone was founded in 2005 as not-for-profit 501(c)3 corporation. The company then obtained a Small Professional Theatres Contract with the Actors' Equity Association.\n\nTheatreZone's inaugural season opened with the musical Mack and Mabel on March 16, 2006. The production starred Gary Sandy, most famous for his role on the 1970s and early 80's CBS Sitcom WKRP in Cincinnati. The show needed to be updated and TheatreZone was able to get in contact with composer Jerry Herman who allowed the rework of the show with his approval.\nTheir second season included the play \"Miracle in Rwanda,\" about a woman who survived the Rwandan genocide by hiding in a bathroom with seven other women for 91 days. The world premiere took place at TheatreZone on February 9, 2007. Following its premiere, the show moved to New York City for one month, and opened in Edinburgh, Scotland in August 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "56731043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56731043", "title": "Tim Calkins (professor)", "text": "Tim Calkins (professor)\n\nTim Calkins (born July 27, 1965) is an author, consultant and clinical professor of Marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management specializing in topics including Marketing Strategy, Biomedical Marketing, and branding.\n\nTim Calkins was born in Buffalo, New York in 1965 to father Evan Calkins and mother Virginia Brady who were married on Sept. 9, 1946 and were both doctors. He has eight siblings, Sally, Stephen, Lucy, Joan, Benjamin, Hugh, Ellen, and Geoffrey.\n\nCalkins graduated from Hamburg High School, Hamburg, New York in 1983 where he had been on the Honor Roll and he was awarded the Regents Scholarship. Subsequently, he received his Bachelor's Degree from Yale University in 1987 and his Master of Business Administration from Harvard University in 1991.\n\nHe currently lives in Chicago, Illinois with his wife Carol Saltoun and his three children.\n\nCalkins began his career as a Research Associate at Booz Allen and Hamilton in New York, New York in 1987. From there he moved to the position of a Marketing Executive at Kraft Foods in Glenview, Illinois from 1991 to 2002 where he managed leading brands including A.1. Steak Sauce, Kraft BBQ sauce, Miracle Whip and Taco Bell Home Originals.\n\nIn 1998, Calkins took a position of Professor of Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management as Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing. He was subsequently made Clinical Associate Professor of Marketing in 2002 and full Clinical Professor of Marketing in 2006. There he has earned several honors and awards including \"Executive MBA Program Outstanding Teaching Award\", \"Sidney J. Levy Teaching Award\", \"Faculty Impact Award\", and \"L. G. Lavengood Outstanding Professor of the Year Award\". He was also chosen for Poets & Quants \"Our Favorite MBA Professors of 2016\".\n\nHe is the managing director of Class 5 Consulting where he provides consultation on projects and problems for clients including Eli Lilly, Hewlett Packard, Pfizer, Teva, AB InBev, Novartis, and the American Dental Association.\n\nTim Calkins is the author of the books \"Breakthrough Marketing Plans\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2008 and 2012) and \"Defending Your Brand: How Smart Companies Use Defensive Strategy to Deal with Competitive Attacks\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2012). \"Defending Your Brand\" was the winner of the Expert Marketer Magazine’s Marketing Book of the Year in 2013. He was also the co-editor of \"Kellogg on Branding\" (John Wiley & Sons, 2005).\n\nCalkins is the founder of the Kellogg School Super Bowl Advertising Review which has reviewed Super Bowl advertisements since 2005. He has also authored articles on the importance of Super Bowl advertising from the point of view of Marketing.\n\nHe has published more than a dozen Kellogg case studies including Crestor, MedImmune: FluMist Introduction and Genzyme: the Synvisc-One Investment Decision as well as articles in industry journals. He is also contributor and author for many marketing and news outlets including Business Insider, Huffington Post , Financial Times, and The New York Times . His blog, Strong Brands, was featured on Inc.com as one of \"Six Blogs That Can Teach You More Than an MBA\".\n\nStrong Brands - Tim Calkins' Blog\n"}
{"id": "20839419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20839419", "title": "University of Santo Tomas College of Architecture", "text": "University of Santo Tomas College of Architecture\n\nThe University of Santo Tomas College of Architecture is the architectural school of the University of Santo Tomas, the oldest and the largest Catholic university in Manila, Philippines.\n\nEstablished in 1930, the college is one of the first architectural schools in the Philippines. It is also one of the only 2 to be proclaimed as a Center of Excellence in \"Architecture\" by the Commission on Higher Education and a consistent Top Performing Architecture School in the Philippine Architecture Licensure Examination.\n\nEstablished in 1930, it is one of the \"first architectural schools\" in the Philippines. It was renamed \"College of Architecture and Fine Arts\" in 1946 following the integration of Fine Arts degrees. The college was split in 2000, thus forming the College of Fine Arts and Design, separating the College of Architecture. The college was housed in the Roque Ruaño building which it shared with the Faculty of Engineering. It later moved in the new Beato Angelico building, together with the College of Fine Arts and Design.\n\n\n\nThe College has produced numerous men and women of the arts that gradually helped shaped Philippine Arts and Architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1511778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1511778", "title": "Volksschule", "text": "Volksschule\n\nThe German term Volksschule generally refers to compulsory education, denoting an educational institution every person (i.e. the people, \"Volk\") is required to attend. \n\nIn Germany and Switzerland it is equivalent to a combined primary (\"Grundschule\" and \"Primarschule\", respectively) and lower secondary education (\"Hauptschule\" or \"Sekundarschule\"), usually comprising a mandatory attendance over a period of nine years. In Austria, \"Volksschule\" solely is used for primary school from Year One to Year Four. In the Nordic countries they are referred to as \"Folkskolen\" and in Finnish, in a direct translation, as \"Kansakoulu\"; these schools covered the first years of primary education, from the ages of 7 to 11 or 12.\n\nIn medieval times, church schools were established in the Holy Roman Empire to educate the future members of the clergy, as stipulated by the 1215 Fourth Council of the Lateran, later adopted by the sunday schools of the Protestant Reformation. First secular schools followed during the pietism movement from the late 17th century onwards and were further promoted by the advocates of the Enlightenment. In 1717 King Frederick William I of Prussia decreed the compulsory education of children from the age of five to twelve. They had to be able to read and write and were obliged to memorise the Protestant catechism. In 1763 King Frederick the Great enacted a first Prussian general school law, elaborated by the theologian Johann Julius Hecker.\n\nSimilar \"Volksschulen\" were established in the Electorate of Saxony and in the German-speaking parts of the Habsburg Monarchy, backed by Johann Ignaz von Felbiger, through a system of state-supported primary one-room schools. Attendance was supposedly compulsory, but a 1781 census reveals that only one fourth of school-age children attended. At the time, this was one of the few examples of state-supported schooling. Sending one's children to school was binding by law only from 1840 in the Austrian Empire.\n\nSpielvogel, Jackson J., 1999-2000, Western Civilization: Comprehensive Volume (4th Edition), \n"}
{"id": "9806246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9806246", "title": "XML Certification Program", "text": "XML Certification Program\n\nXML Certification Program (XML Master) is an IT professional certification for XML and related technologies. There are two levels of XML Certifications, XML Master Basic certification and XML Master Professional certification, and more than 18,000 people have passed the examinations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
