{"id": "19570526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570526", "title": "67th parallel north", "text": "67th parallel north\n\nThe 67th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 67 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane, about 50 km north of the Arctic Circle. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Asia and North America.\n\nAt this latitude the sun is visible for 24 hours, 0 minutes during the summer solstice and 1 hour, 30 minutes during the winter solstice.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 67° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "52807122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52807122", "title": "Aintharuvi", "text": "Aintharuvi\n\nAintharuvi is a group of five waterfalls, that is nearby the famous waterfalls of Tamil Nadu, India, the Coutrallam Falls. It is located in Tenkasi. The English meaning of the name is Five falls.The waterfalls is compared with Adisesha, the holy snake since the waterfalls cascades in five directions resembling a 5-headed Cobra.\n\nTwo temples dedicated to Swami Ayyappa and Lord Vinayaka are situated nearby.\n"}
{"id": "38449525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38449525", "title": "Airborne visible/infrared imaging spectrometer", "text": "Airborne visible/infrared imaging spectrometer\n\nThe airborne visible/infrared imaging spectrometer (AVIRIS) is the second in a series of imaging spectrometer instruments developed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) for Earth remote sensing. This instrument uses scanning optics and four spectrometers to image a 614-pixel swath simultaneously in 224 adjacent spectral bands.\n\nThe main objective of the AVIRIS project is to identify, measure, and monitor constituents of the Earth's surface and atmosphere based on molecular absorption and particle scattering signatures. Research with AVIRIS data is predominantly focused on understanding processes related to the global environment and climate change. AVIRIS research areas include ecology, oceanography, geology, snow hydrology, cloud and atmospheric studies.\n\nAVIRIS has been flown on four aircraft platforms: the NASA ER-2 jet, Twin Otter International's turboprop, Scaled Composites Proteus, and NASA's WB-57. The ER-2 flies at approximately 20 km above sea level, at about 730 km/hr. The Twin Otter aircraft flies at 4 km above ground level at 130 km/hr. AVIRIS has flown North America, Europe, portions of South America, and Argentina.\n\nThe Jet Propulsion Laboratory proposed to design and develop the AVIRIS in 1983. AVIRIS first measured spectral images in 1987 and measured the solar reflected spectrum from 400 nanometers to 2500 nanometers. AVIRIS measures upwelling radiance through 224 contiguous spectral channels at 10 nanometer intervals across the spectrum.\n\n"}
{"id": "7229650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7229650", "title": "American and Canadian Water Landmark", "text": "American and Canadian Water Landmark\n\nAn American Water Landmark is a landmark within the United States, Canada, or Mexico that is a historic location and is associated in some way with water. The American Water Works Association has designated American Water Landmarks since 1969.\n\nThe following is the list of structures given the American Water Landmark designation:\n\n"}
{"id": "44539275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44539275", "title": "Anthropoid ceramic coffins", "text": "Anthropoid ceramic coffins\n\nThe anthropoid ceramic coffins of the Late Bronze Age Levant are a unique burial practice that is a synthesis of Egyptian and Near Eastern ideologies. The coffins date from the 14th to 10th centuries BCE and have been found at Deir el-Balah, Beth Shean, Lachish, Tell el-Far’ah, Sahab, and most recently in the Jezreel Valley in 2013. The coffins show Egyptian influence in the Ancient Near East and exhibit many Egyptian qualities in the depictions on the face masks on the lids. The lids can be separated into two artistic categories, the natural and grotesque, and the bodies are separated into \"type A\", tapered from the shoulders, and \"type B\", cylindrical. The graves contain wealthy funerary offerings from a variety of origins from Cyprus, Mycenae, Egypt, Phoenicia, and Canaan. The graves appear to be originally reserved for Egyptian officials and then later became a part of Canaanite and Philistine culture.\n\nThe anthropoid clay coffins are generally believed to have been a product of the First Dynasty in Egypt that were gradually disseminated to other regions and peoples. They were one of several forms of burial utilized by Sumerians at Ur and the Egyptians. There is some disagreement about the social and economic associations of this form of burial among scholars, which can also be said to vary depending on the site.\n\nThe various forms utilized originally by the Egyptians can be described as inhumation, clay coffins, and tombs with stairways and vaulting. Typically the graves that utilized inhumation or vaulting contained bodies in wooden coffins, which were more valuable than their clay counterparts as well as items of wealth and even human sacrifices. Clay coffins are often associated with the poorest graves in Egyptian society, though not always in Levant. Notably, Egypt continued to develop new methods of burial whereas Sumer \"stagnated.\"\n\nIn 1929 George Horsfield, who was the Director of Antiquities for Transjordan, was made aware of a tomb near the city of Sahab. He notified W.F. Albright who personally visited the site. He describes the tomb as \"cistern-like\" and located on a hill [Albright 295]. He notes that the writing found here has no known identification, being dissimilar to both Semitic and Arabic. Albright describes his finds at this tomb as similar to findings at Beth-shan and Tell el-Far’ah, examined by Rowe and Petrie respectively. The objects found here are in stark contrast to those found at Canaanite tombs and are more closely associated with the Philistines. Generally, the findings suggest a date between the 11th and 12th centuries for the creation of these tombs.\n\nIn Egypt, Petries discovered several burials near Tell Nebesheh in 1885. As a result of the pottery he located here, he described the tombs as \"Cypriote\" and suggested that they were from the 5th to 7th century B.C. At Tell el-Yahuidiyeh in 1888, Naville discovered several tumuli tombs. He described the pottery he found as \"Cypriote\" because he thought it was similar to Petries findings. However, it was actually Palestinian in origin. A scarab found at this site dates to the 11–12th century. Some have suggested that the Philistines influenced the development of these sites, however it is more likely that they are a result of Egyptian influence.\n\nIn 1973, Trude Dothan described recent findings at the cemetery of Deir el-Balah in Canaan. Items found here can be said to have arrived from a variety of sources. However, there is evidence of strong Egyptian influence on local items as well as items imported from Egypt. This is the earliest site of anthropoid coffins in Canaan. There is speculation about the source of the development of anthropoid coffins at this site, but Dothan believes that the source is more likely Egyptian than Philistine. Items here date from the 11-13th centuries.\n\nIn a cemetery south of Deir el-Balah anthropoid coffins where found when locals were reclaiming sand dunes. The coffins were found among a few simple burials and when unearthed appeared to be in pristine shape, however they were actually being held together by the sand that had filled the cracks and was supporting the frame of the coffin from external pressure. In antiquity many coffins had fallen prey to grave robbers. These disturbed coffins, even though looted of their valuable objects, still hold a great deal of importance. Examining the coffins themselves proves to be of great value. In earlier times, at the end of the Pre-Dynastic Period and during the First Dynasty of Sumer and Egypt, clay coffins were imitations of ornamental wooden ones. Although most commonly found in single graves, at Tell el-Yahudiyeh there were many coffins placed next to one another in rows. These coffins were painted and plain, painted coffins are not commonly mentioned.\n\nFace Lids fall into two categories, naturalistic or grotesque.\n\nThere were burials containing anthropoid ceramic coffins excavated at the sites of Deir el-Balah and Beth Shean predominantly, however there were coffins found in smaller numbers at Lachish, Tell el-Far’ah, Sahab, and the Jezreel Valley. Many of the excavated anthropoid ceramic coffins from Deir el-Balah were buried in similar ritual contexts dating from the 14th-11th centuries BCE. The coffins were cut into a foundation of Kurkar (sandstone) or hamrah (red sand) and lined with rough stones and oriented to the west. The coffins at Deir el-Balah were marked with large pithoi at the head of the burial with dipper jugs inside and bowls on top serving as lids, these deposits served as the grave markers. At Deir el-Balah the coffins typically contained more than one individual and contained up to four people in some cases. At Beth Shean the coffins were placed into rock cut tombs also facing the west from the same time period as Deir el-Balah. The northern cemetery at Beth Shean contained roughly fifty coffins with surviving face lids. These graves had been disturbed in antiquity and the amount of information left was sparse. The coffins from Beth Shean were unique and were adorned with headdresses, which some have suggested to mean they are of Philistine origin. At Lachish and Tell el-Far’ah the several rock cut tombs found there containing anthropoid ceramic coffins date from a later period, 12th–10th centuries BCE, and are mostly associated with Philistine offerings.\n\nThese burials were typically associated with a large variety of expensive grave offerings. The offerings consist of ceramics, bronzes, and jewelry of precious metals and stones. Wide ranges of ceramic offerings are found with the burials such as Cypriot, Canaanite, Egyptian, Mycenaean, and Philistine pottery. The pottery can be separated into two categories, that which is found \"within the coffin\" and that which is found \"outside of the coffin\". The pottery found outside of the coffin is typically larger and of a more utilitarian variety, such as storage jars, pithoi, stirrup jars, and cooking pots. The pottery found inside the coffins is smaller and of a higher quality, including Cypriots milk bowls, Egyptian alabaster cups, pilgrim flasks, and juglets. The earlier burials (14th–12th centuries BCE) were associated with more Egyptian influenced pottery and finds, whereas the later burials (12th–10th centuries BCE) were associated with the Philistine culture.\n\nBronze tools and implements were another common burial offering associated with anthropoid ceramic coffins. The bronze items are usually Egyptian in style and consist of bowls, pitchers, knives, and in one case a wine set. The wine set consisted of a bronze pitcher and a strainer and is one of only a few complete sets found. In a rich coffin of a woman at Deir el-Balah an Egyptian New Kingdom style bronze mirror was found. Bronze was not the only type metal artifact found; in one of the tombs at Tell el-Far’ah one of oldest pieces of \"Iron\" in the Levant was found.\n\nThese anthropoid ceramic coffins appear to have been associated with wealthier individuals and consequently have a trove of expensive small finds. Many beads from necklaces and bracelets made of expensive materials were found inside the coffins. Golden beads in the shapes of palmettes and lotus blossoms were common and showed the incorporation of Egyptian and Near Eastern art motifs in the funerary adornment. Many of the beads found were made out of a semi-precious stone, carnelian. Another interesting find associated with one of the coffins at Deir el-Balah was a makeup spoon in the shape of a diving woman. This is a common motif found in Egyptian art of the New Kingdom period. One of the more important small finds associated with the coffins from all sites they were found at are scarabs. Scarabs bearing imagery and the cartouches of New Kingdom Pharaohs, including one of Rameses II, have been found in context with most of the coffins and suggest that the people buried in the coffins were possibly Egyptian officials.\n\nMost of the information known about these burials has been taken from the associated finds due to the lack of written evidence. Only on two occasions was there writing associated with the burials; one, a badly preserved funerary stele lining a grave at Deir el-Balah and two, a coffin lid from Lachish that had poorly written and preserved hieroglyphs on it. There are still some mysteries associated with these burials, one being sets of \"stone\" and \"bone pellets\" found inside many of the coffins. The use of the pellets has yet to be discovered. The biggest unknown still surrounding these coffins, that the offerings have helped to unravel, is who were the coffins made for. Scholars have suggested they are for Egyptians, Canaanites imitating the Egyptians, and the Philistines. From the dates associated with the finds, it appears that the coffins originated with Egyptians and Egyptian influence in Canaan and then was adopted by the Philistines later.\n"}
{"id": "21918411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21918411", "title": "Bakwa-Kasanga", "text": "Bakwa-Kasanga\n\nBakwa-Kasanga is a town in central Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nIt is served by a station on the national railway network.\n\n"}
{"id": "12649022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12649022", "title": "Barkdust", "text": "Barkdust\n\nIn agriculture, gardening, and landscaping, barkdust (also bark dust, bark chips, bark mulch, or beauty bark) is a form of mulch produced out of chipped or shredded tree bark. Coarser forms of barkdust may be known as bark nuggets. Trees typically used in the production of barkdust include the Douglas fir and the Western hemlock.\n\nBarkdust is commonly produced from several tree species. The Douglas fir and the Western hemlock are the most common sources of barkdust, with cedar bark also being used. Barkdust may be a byproduct of lumber production, of yard debris recycling processes, or it may be produced in its own right. Barkdust is typically categorized by the source plant, as well as by the coarseness of the resulting material. Fine barkdusts are used as mulch, with coarser forms being used for weed control, as a playground surface, or for decorative purposes. \n\nAccording to voluntary guidelines published by the Mulch and Soil Council, a trade group of mulch and soil producers, a material with \"bark\" in the name should consist of \"the corky exterior covering of trees, with a maximum wood content (interior xylem of 15%)\". Products with greater than 15% wood content may be labelled as \"wood mulch\", but should not be called \"bark\", according to the group's guidelines.\n\nFresh fir bark is reddish-brown in color. The bark from cedar or hemlock is more tan in color, as the processes which produce these types of barkdust may leave a greater percentage of wood (as opposed to bark) in the resulting material. Shredded Douglas fir bark is known for lots of slivers, those who handle it with bare hands or walk on it with bare feet are likely to get splinters. Bark produced from hemlock or cedar is far less likely to produce splinters, and is commonly used as a covering for children's play areas.\n\nLike many other types of mulch, barkdust is used in gardening and landscaping for its properties in affecting soil pH, in regulating the temperature of the underlying soil, \nand preventing water loss and erosion.\n\nBarkdust increases soil acidity, and the decomposition of barkdust consumes nitrogen, especially when fine bark mulch is mixed in with soil; coarser barkdust laid on top of soil will extract nitrogen at a much slower rate. Barkdust is also effective at absorbing water and preventing water loss due to evaporation.\n\nBarkdust is commonly used in landscaping around trees or shrubs. It is especially common in the Pacific Northwest where the tree species used to produce it are native. Barkdust is valued for its effectiveness at suppressing weeds; tree bark contains natural herbicides. In addition, many consider barkdust to be visually appealing.\n\nAs barkdust is less dense than other types of soil or mulch, and doesn't compress a great deal, it is often considerably softer than bare earth. As a result, it also finds applications as a playground surface. For playground applications, hemlock or cedar bark is most commonly used, as fir bark frequently produces splinters when handled by or trod upon with bare skin.\n\nBarkdust is typically sold by the unit, with one unit of barkdust being equal to 200 cubic feet (7.41 cubic yards, or 5.66 m); such large quantities of barkdust are typically delivered by truck to a jobsite. Barkdust is often spread with a bark blower, a machine consisting of a supply of barkdust, a blower, and a long flexible tube which \"sprays\" the barkdust over the intended area. Use of a bark blower often results in a more consistent application of barkdust than spreading it by hand, as well as being much faster.\n\nSmaller quantities of barkdust, typically 2–3 cubic feet, are sold prepackaged in home improvement and gardening retailers.\n\nFor landscaping applications, a layer of 2\"–3\" (5 cm–7.5 cm) is generally recommended. For use in playgrounds, a 12\" (30 cm) layer is often recommended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1521467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1521467", "title": "Caribbean Plate", "text": "Caribbean Plate\n\nThe Caribbean Plate is a mostly oceanic tectonic plate underlying Central America and the Caribbean Sea off the north coast of South America.\n\nRoughly 3.2 million square kilometers (1.2 million square miles) in area, the Caribbean Plate borders the North American Plate, the South American Plate, the Nazca Plate and the Cocos Plate. These borders are regions of intense seismic activity, including frequent earthquakes, occasional tsunamis, and volcanic eruptions.\n\nThe northern boundary with the North American plate is a transform or strike-slip boundary which runs from the border area of Belize, Guatemala (Motagua Fault), and Honduras in Central America, eastward through the Cayman trough along the Swan Islands Transform Fault before joining the southern boundary of the Gonâve Microplate. East of the Mid-Cayman Rise this continues as the Walton fault zone and the Enriquillo–Plantain Garden fault zone into eastern Hispaniola. From there it continues into Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. Part of the Puerto Rico Trench, the deepest part of the Atlantic Ocean (roughly 8,400 meters), lies along this border. The Puerto Rico trench is at a complex transition from the subduction boundary to the south and the transform boundary to the west.\n\nThe eastern boundary is a subduction zone, the Lesser Antilles subduction zone, where oceanic crust of the South American Plate is being subducted under the Caribbean Plate. Subduction forms the volcanic islands of the Lesser Antilles Volcanic Arc from the Virgin Islands in the north to the islands off the coast of Venezuela in the south. This boundary contains seventeen active volcanoes, most notably Soufriere Hills on Montserrat; Mount Pelée on Martinique; La Grande Soufrière on Guadeloupe; Soufrière Saint Vincent on Saint Vincent; and the submarine volcano Kick 'em Jenny which lies about 10 km north of Grenada. Large historical earthquakes in 1839 and 1843 in this region are possibly megathrust earthquakes.\n\nAlong the geologically complex southern boundary, the Caribbean Plate interacts with the South American Plate forming Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago (all on the Caribbean Plate), and islands off the coast of Venezuela (including the Leeward Antilles) and Colombia. This boundary is in part the result of transform faulting along with thrust faulting and some subduction. The rich Venezuelan petroleum fields possibly result from this complex plate interaction. The Caribbean plate is moving eastward about 22 millimeters per year in relation to the South American plate. In Venezuela much of the movement between the Caribbean Plate and the South American plate occurs along the faults of Boconó, El Pilar and San Sebastián.\n\nThe western portion of the plate is occupied by Central America. The Cocos Plate in the Pacific Ocean is subducted beneath the Caribbean Plate, just off the western coast of Central America. This subduction forms the volcanoes of Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, also known as the Central America Volcanic Arc.\n\nThe usual theory as to the origin of the Caribbean Plate was confronted by a contrasting theory in 2002.\n\nThe mainstream theory holds that it is the Caribbean large igneous province (CLIP) which formed in the Pacific Ocean tens of millions of years ago. As the Atlantic Ocean widened, North America and South America were pushed westward, separated for a time by oceanic crust. The Pacific Ocean floor subducted under this oceanic crust between the continents. The CLIP drifted into the same area, but as it was less dense and thicker than the surrounding oceanic crust, it did not subduct, but rather overrode the ocean floor, continuing to move eastward relative to North America and South America. With the formation of the Isthmus of Panama 3 million years ago, it ultimately lost its connection to the Pacific.\n\nThe more recent theory asserts that the Caribbean Plate came into being from an Atlantic hotspot which no longer exists. This theory points to evidence of the absolute motion of the Caribbean Plate which indicates that it moves westward, not east, and that its apparent eastward motion is only relative to the motions of the North American Plate and the South American Plate.\n\nThe Caribbean Plate began its eastward migration (Ma) during the Late Cretaceous. This migration eventually resulted in a volcanic arc stretching from north-western South America to the Yucatán Peninsula, today represented by the Aves Islands and the Lesser and Greater Antilles. This arc was the subject of constant tectonism and sea-level fluctuations but lasted until the mid-Eocene and intermittently formed a land bridge along the eastern and northern boundaries of the Caribbean Plate. (What would eventually become present-day Central America, part of the western plate boundary, was still isolated in the Pacific.)\n\n, during the Late Paleocene, a local sea-level low-stand assisted by the continental uplift of the western margin of South America, resulted in a fully operative land bridge over which several groups of mammals apparently took part in an interchange. For example, xenarthrans are known from the Itaboraian stage of the South American Land Mammal Age (SALMA) (59–57 Ma), palaeanodonts from the Tiffanian North American Land Mammal Age (NALMA) (57 Ma) and \"Eurotamandua\" from the early middle Eocene (50 Ma) of Europe; opossums are known from the Tiupampan/Itaboraian SALMA (64–57 Ma), from the Clarkforkian NALMA (55 Ma); and from the Ypresian in Europe (55 Ma).\n\nThe Great American Interchange in which land and freshwater fauna migrated between North America and South America via the uplifted western margin of the Caribbean Plate (Central America) was a later event, which peaked dramatically around three million years (Ma) ago during the Piacenzian age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5259279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259279", "title": "Children's geographies", "text": "Children's geographies\n\nChildren's geographies is an area of study within human geography and Childhood studies which involves researching the places and spaces of children's lives.\n\nChildren's geographies is the branch of human geography which deals with the study of places and spaces of children's lives, characterised experientially, politically and ethically.\n\nEver since the cultural turn in geography, there has been recognition that society is not homogenous but heterogeneous. It is characterized by diversity, differences and subjectivities. While feminist geographers had been able to strengthen the need for examination of gender, class and race as issues affecting women, 'children' as an umbrella term encompassing children, teenagers, youths and young people, which are still relatively missing a 'frame of reference' in the complexities of 'geographies'. In the act of theorizing children and their geographies, the ways of doing research and the assumed ontological realities often \"frame 'children' and 'adults' in ways that impose a bi-polar, hierarchical, and developmental model\". This reproduces and enforces the hegemony of adult-centered discourses of children within knowledge production. Children's geographies has developed in academic human geography since the beginning of the 1990s, although there were notable studies in the area before that date. The earliest work done on children's geographies largely can be traced to William Bunge's work on spatial oppression of children in Detroit and Toronto where children are deemed as the ones who suffer the most under an oppressing adult framework of social, cultural and political forces controlling the urban built environment.\n\nThis development emerged from the realisation that previously human geography had largely ignored the everyday lives of children, who (obviously) form a significant section of society, and who have specific needs and capacities, and who may experience the world in very different ways. Thus children's geographies can in part be seen in parallel to an interest in gender in geography and feminist geography in so much as their starting points were the gender blindness of mainstream academic geography. Children's geographies also shares many of the underpinning principles of Childhood Studies (and the so-called New Social Studies of Childhood) and Sociology of the family - namely, that childhood is a social construction and that scholars should pay greater attention to children's voices and agency, although recent 'new wave' scholarship has challenged these principles (Kraftl, 2013)\n\nChildren's geographies rests on the idea that children as a social group share certain characteristics which are experientially, politically and ethically significant and which are worthy of study. The pluralisation in the title is intended to imply that children's lives will be markedly different in differing times and places and in differing circumstances such as gender, family, and class.The current developments in children's geographies are attempting to link the frame of analysing children's geographies to one that requires multiple perspectives and the willingness to acknowledge the 'multiplicity' of their geographies.\n\nChildren's geographies is sometimes coupled with, and yet distinguished from the geographies of childhood. The former has an interest in the everyday lives of children; the latter has an interest in how (adult) society conceives of the very idea of childhood and how this impinges on children's lives in many ways. This includes imaginations about the nature of children and the related (spatial) implications. In an early article, Holloway and Valentine termed these 'spatial discourses' \n\nChildren’s geographies can be observed through the various lenses provided by foci, thus the plurality inspired by post-modern and post-structural social geographers (Panelli, 2009). These focii include, but are not limited to: the history of its emergence (key authors and texts), the nature of the child (geographical concepts, family contexts, society contexts, gender variation, aged-based variation, cultural variation), children in the environment (home, school, play, neighbourhood, street, city, country, landscapes of consumption, cyberspace), designing environments for children (children as planners, utopian visions), environmental hazards (traffic, health and environment, accidents), indirect experience of place (not medium specific, literature, T.V. and cyberspace), social issues (children’s fears, parent’s fears for their children, poverty and deprivation, work, migration, social hazards, crime and deviance), citizenship and agency (environmental action, local politics, interest in the environment), and children’s geographical knowledge (environmental cognition, understanding the physical environment) (McKendrick, 2000). Also, the methodologies of researching children's worlds and the ethics of doing so has been distinguished by the otherness of childhood.\n\nThere is now a journal dedicated to work in the subdiscipline: Children's Geographies which will give readers a good idea of the growing range of issues, theories and methodologies of this developing and vibrant sub-discipline. Another relevant journal is Children, Youth and Environments, published as an interdisciplinary tri-annual with a worldwide readership.\n\nFor some years, critics argued that scholarship in children's geographies was characterised by a lack of theoretical diversity and 'block politics'. However, since the mid-2000s, the subdiscipline has seen a proliferation and diversification of theoretical work away from the social constructivist principles of childhood studies and the New Social Studies of Childhood. A major, influential trend has been the development of Non-representational theory by children's geographers, and especially scholars such as Peter Kraftl, John Horton, Matej Blazek, Veronica Pacini-Ketchabaw, Affrica Taylor, Pauliina Rautio and Kim Kullman. This work shares many theoretical influences with a so-called 'new wave' of childhood studies, and especially the influence of poststructural, new materialist and feminist theorists such as Gilles Deleuze, Rosi Braidotti, Donna Haraway and Jane Bennett (political theorist). For instance, in a series of articles, John Horton and Peter Kraftl have challenged a sense of 'what matters' in scholarship with children - from the material objects, emotions and affects that characterise 'participation' to the ways in which our embodied engagements with place in childhood are carried forward into adulthood, thereby scrambling any neat notion of 'transition' from childhood to adulthood. Elsewhere, Veronica Pacini-Ketchabaw and Affrica Taylor have developed innovative approaches to understanding the 'common worlds' of children and a range of nonhuman species, including both domestic and 'wild' animals. Their vibrant 'common worlds' research collective brings together a range of scholars who seek to explore how children's lives are entangled with those of nonhumans in ways that challenge oppressive, colonial and/or neoliberal views of the human as an individuated subject somehow distanced from 'nature'. Recently, there has been vibrant debate about the political value of nonrepresentational approaches to childhood. Some scholars argue that nonrepresentational theories encourage a focus upon the banal, everyday, ephemeral and small-scale at the expense of understanding and critically interrogating wider-scaled and longer-standing processes of marginalisation. Others argue that, whilst valid, nonrepresentational and 'new wave' approaches extend beyond the small-scale, offering useful and in some cases fundamental ways to critically and creatively re-think the ways that we do research with children and their 'common worlds'.\n\nA second key conceptual trend has been in work on Subjectivity, children's Political geography and emotion. For instance, Louise Holt (2013) uses the work of Judith Butler to critically examine the emergence of the infant as a 'subject' through power relations that are often gendered, as well as infanthood is a stage in the lifecourse that is subject to particular kinds of social construction. Elsewhere, there has been a surge in interest in children's political geographies, which has to some extent been informed both by developments in nonrepresentational theory and in theories of subjectivity. Central to this scholarship (especially in the work of Tracey Skelton, Kirsi Pauliina Kallio and Jouni Hakli) has been a move beyond a traditional concern with children's participation in decision-making processes to highlight the range of ways in which they may be 'political' - from 'micropolitical' engagements with ethnic or social in the school or the street to critical considerations of major policy documents such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nLouise Holt's work on subjectivity also connects with a wider, ongoing interest in the Emotional geography of childhood and youth (Bartos, 2012, Blazek, 2013), which, although overlapping with interests in nonrepresentational children's geographies, also has its roots in feminist theory. Notably, such approaches informed seminal texts that were important to the early development of children's geographies, particularly in Sarah Holloway's work on parenting and local childcare cultures. More recently, there has been a reinvigoration of interest in parenting, some of which has driven theorisations of the emotions that characterise the intimacy of parent/carer-child relationships - especially where these are cut across by policies designed to intervene into the spaces of parenting. This work has therefore been crucial in linking together the apparently small-scale concerns of intimate family life with 'bigger' concerns such as Government policy-making and school-based interventions.\n\nSince the age range assumed to constitute as childhood is quite vague within the cumulative research of children’s geographies it is evident the multitude of environments they experience will be quite broad. The array of spaces and places experienced by children includes, but are not restricted to, homes, schools, playgrounds, neighbourhoods, streets, cities, countries, landscapes of consumption, and cyberspace. As environment has been noted by a multitude of social geographers to entail a socio-spatial aspect, it is important to note that over time the recognition of the multiplicity of the term “environment” has both diverged and converged as social geography has evolved (Valentine, 2001; Bowlby, 2001).\n\nAlthough schools are such a relatively large institution in society, it has been noted that this environment has received little recognition in comparison to institutions of health (Collins and Coleman, 2008). Collins and Coleman also note the centrality of schools in everyday life as they are “found in almost every urban and suburban neighbourhood” and most children experience a considerable time within this environment in their day-to-day lives. The role of this environment in a child’s life is pivotal to their development, especially in respects to the inclusionary and exclusionary processes of society experienced firsthand in schools (MacCrae, Maguire and Milbourne, 2002). The manifestation of social exclusion as bullying is an inter-personal socio-spatial aspect whose implications have been extensively researched both within school boundaries and how it is enabled by technology (Olweus and Limber, 2010; Black, Washington, Trent, Harner and Pollock, 2009). School, therefore, is not only a place where children learn quantifiable subjects, but also a learning ground of life interaction skills needed later on.\n\nResearch in children's geographies has been central to the development of scholarship on 'geographies of education'. For many commentators, this work - which spans Social geography, Cultural geography, Political geography and Urban geography - does not (yet) constitute an identifiable subdiscipline of human geography. However, geographers have held an enduring concern with education spaces, extending to and beyond school, as Collins and Coleman identify. This work has burgeoned in recent years, with a number of special issues dedicated to education and emotion, embodiment and the cultural geographies of education. Yet, as Holloway et al. (2010) argue, the role and significance of children, young people and families has been underplayed in debate on geographies of education. As they argue, children's geographers have not only undertaken a huge range of research in schools, but that work has been central in developing geographers' understandings of both education spaces more widely, and schools in particular.\n\nAlthough schools are a relatively large institution in society, it has been noted that this environment has received little recognition in comparison to institutions of health (Collins and Coleman, 2008). Collins and Coleman also note the centrality of schools in everyday life as they are “found in almost \"every\" urban and suburban neighbourhood” and most children experience a considerable time within this environment in their day-to-day lives. The implications of home schooling have largely been a field of assumptions, taking after common myths (Romanowki, 2010), although later work by geographers has examined in considerable detail the significance of space, place. emotion and materiality to the experiences of homeschoolers. The variance between public and private sector institutions and the implications of social status of children within the school community has also been a contentious field (Nissan and Carter, 2010).\n\nWhilst the majority of research by children's and youth geographers on education has focussed on institutions like schools and universities, that work has been challenged in a number of ways by scholarship on the geographies of alternative education. Examining a diverse range of non-State-funded, explicitly 'alternative' education spaces in the UK (like Homeschooling, Waldorf education, Montessori education, Forest school (learning style) and Care farming), Peter Kraftl examines the connections and disconnections between 'mainstream' and 'alternative' education sectors. Drawing on nonrepresentational children's geographies, Peter Kraftl explores how alternative educators work to intervene into children's bodily habits, how they create spaces in which mess and disorder are valorised, and how they work with conceptions of 'nature' that both resonate with and, critically, counter mainstream assumptions about children's disengagement with 'nature' in Western societies (see Nature deficit disorder). In doing so, alternative educators are attempting to create 'alter-childhoods' - alternative constructions, imaginations and ways of treating childhood that are knowingly different from a perceived mainstream.\n\nAs children grow they look to the influential adults in their lives for guidance (parents, caregivers and teachers). Most researchers and adults alike agree that communication is key to healthy child development across all modal environments, especially within schools (Lasky, 2000; Hargreaves, 2000; Hargreaves and Fullan, 1998; Hargreaves and Lasky, 2004). Lasky's focus remains on the cultural and emotional dynamic between teachers and the parents of their students. Where as Hargreaves continuously exemplifies through his data the significant improvement in child performance at school because of an equal power-play communication between teachers and parents/caregivers. Where there may be a lack of influential adults, children may look to older age groups within the school environment to observe acceptable behaviours and attention seeking behaviours. Research has begun to display the components of the “high quality experience” provided by controlled school-based mentoring relationships (Ahrens et al. 2011). However, other research disputes that the experience is as helpful as it claims to be, suggesting child-mentoring situations often fall short or are only temporarily beneficial (Spencer, 2007; Pryce, 2012). Pryce’s research highlights the attunement of the mentor to the other’s needs highly dictates the beneficial nature of the mentor relationship.\n\nThe introduction of technology into children’s lives has provided a new platform upon which the school environment is no longer contained within a space. The place’s previous temporal and geographical constrictions have been mobilized by the used of the Internet. The outcomes of this mobilization have both been constructive and destructive in the availability of material to learning children (Sancho, 2004) and more extrapersonal interactions among children. The educational benefit of I.C.T. (Interactive Computer Technology) in the classroom has been a subject supported by various researchers (Aviram and Talmi, 2004).\n\nThe school is an institution in which children observe one another and experiment continuously with their self-image (Hernandez, 2004). Hernandez’s research recognized a need to recognize children as individuals, and to incorporate their “personal maps” into the educational process, so the gap between the school environment and external environment does not elevate dangerously. The centrality of schools to social geography is pivotal. Public institutions in Canada and the USA were defined as “nation-building institutions, which sought to create common citizens from ethnically, linguistically and religiously diverse populations” (Moore, 2000; Sweet, 1997). The connection between nation-building and public education has held the view that schools shape the knowledge and identities of children (Collins and Coleman, 2008). Whether the connection is seen to create negative, destructive social norms or positive, construction of progressive values is dependent “on one’s broader political/moral compass” (Collins, 2006; Hunter 1991).\n\n"}
{"id": "5593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593", "title": "Cyprus", "text": "Cyprus\n\nCyprus (; ; ), officially the Republic of Cyprus (; ), is an island country in the Eastern Mediterranean and the third largest and third most populous island in the Mediterranean, located south of Turkey, west of Syria and Lebanon, northwest of Israel, north of Egypt, and southeast of Greece.\n\nThe earliest known human activity on the island dates to around the 10th millennium BC. Archaeological remains from this period include the well-preserved Neolithic village of Khirokitia, and Cyprus is home to some of the oldest water wells in the world. Cyprus was settled by Mycenaean Greeks in two waves in the 2nd millennium BC. As a strategic location in the Middle East, it was subsequently occupied by several major powers, including the empires of the Assyrians, Egyptians and Persians, from whom the island was seized in 333 BC by Alexander the Great. Subsequent rule by Ptolemaic Egypt, the Classical and Eastern Roman Empire, Arab caliphates for a short period, the French Lusignan dynasty and the Venetians, was followed by over three centuries of Ottoman rule between 1571 and 1878 (\"de jure\" until 1914).\n\nCyprus was placed under British administration based on the Cyprus Convention in 1878 and was formally annexed by Britain in 1914. While Turkish Cypriots made up 18% of the population, the partition of Cyprus and creation of a Turkish state in the north became a policy of Turkish Cypriot leaders and Turkey in the 1950s. Turkish leaders for a period advocated the annexation of Cyprus to Turkey as Cyprus was considered an \"extension of Anatolia\" by them; while, since the 19th century, the majority Greek Cypriot population and its Orthodox church had been pursuing union with Greece, which became a Greek national policy in the 1950s. Following nationalist violence in the 1950s, Cyprus was granted independence in 1960. In 1963, the 11-year intercommunal violence between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots started, which displaced more than 25,000 Turkish Cypriots and brought the end of Turkish Cypriot representation in the republic. On 15 July 1974, a coup d'état was staged by Greek Cypriot nationalists and elements of the Greek military junta in an attempt at \"enosis\", the incorporation of Cyprus into Greece. This action precipitated the Turkish invasion of Cyprus on 20 July, which led to the capture of the present-day territory of Northern Cyprus in the following month, after a ceasefire collapsed, and the displacement of over 150,000 Greek Cypriots and 50,000 Turkish Cypriots. A separate Turkish Cypriot state in the north was established by unilateral declaration in 1983; the move was widely condemned by the international community, with Turkey alone recognizing the new state. These events and the resulting political situation are matters of a continuing dispute.\n\nThe Republic of Cyprus has \"de jure\" sovereignty over the entire island, including its territorial waters and exclusive economic zone, with the exception of the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia, which remain under British control according to the London and Zürich Agreements. However, the Republic of Cyprus is \"de facto\" partitioned into two main parts: the area under the effective control of the Republic, located in the south and west, and comprising about 59% of the island's area; and the north, administered by the self-declared Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, covering about 36% of the island's area. Another nearly 4% of the island's area is covered by the UN buffer zone. The international community considers the northern part of the island as territory of the Republic of Cyprus occupied by Turkish forces. The occupation is viewed as illegal under international law, amounting to illegal occupation of EU territory since Cyprus became a member of the European Union.\n\nCyprus is a major tourist destination in the Mediterranean. With an advanced, high-income economy and a very high Human Development Index, the Republic of Cyprus has been a member of the Commonwealth since 1961 and was a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement until it joined the European Union on 1 May 2004. On 1 January 2008, the Republic of Cyprus joined the eurozone.\n\nThe earliest attested reference to \"Cyprus\" is the 15th century BC Mycenaean Greek , \"ku-pi-ri-jo\", meaning \"Cypriot\" (Greek: ), written in Linear B syllabic script.\nThe classical Greek form of the name is (\"Kýpros\").\n\nThe etymology of the name is unknown.\nSuggestions include:\n\nThrough overseas trade, the island has given its name to the Classical Latin word for copper through the phrase \"aes Cyprium\", \"metal of Cyprus\", later shortened to \"Cuprum\".\n\nThe standard demonym relating to Cyprus or its people or culture is \"Cypriot\". The terms \"Cypriote\" and \"Cyprian\" are also used, though less frequently.\n\nThe earliest confirmed site of human activity on Cyprus is Aetokremnos, situated on the south coast, indicating that hunter-gatherers were active on the island from around 10,000 BC, with settled village communities dating from 8200 BC. The arrival of the first humans correlates with the extinction of the dwarf hippos and dwarf elephants. Water wells discovered by archaeologists in western Cyprus are believed to be among the oldest in the world, dated at 9,000 to 10,500 years old.\n\nRemains of an 8-month-old cat were discovered buried with a human body at a separate Neolithic site in Cyprus. The grave is estimated to be 9,500 years old (7500 BC), predating ancient Egyptian civilisation and pushing back the earliest known feline-human association significantly. The remarkably well-preserved Neolithic village of Khirokitia is a UNESCO World Heritage Site dating to approximately 6800 BC.\n\nDuring the late Bronze Age the island experienced two waves of Greek settlement. The first wave consisted of Mycenaean Greek traders who started visiting Cyprus around 1400 BC. A major wave of Greek settlement is believed to have taken place following the Bronze Age collapse of Mycenaean Greece from 1100 to 1050 BC, with the island's predominantly Greek character dating from this period. Cyprus occupies an important role in Greek mythology being the birthplace of Aphrodite and Adonis, and home to King Cinyras, Teucer and Pygmalion. Beginning in the 8th century BC Phoenician colonies were founded on the south coast of Cyprus, near present-day Larnaca and Salamis.\n\nCyprus is at a strategic location in the Middle East. It was ruled by Assyria for a century starting in 708 BC, before a brief spell under Egyptian rule and eventually Persian rule in 545 BC. The Cypriots, led by Onesilus, king of Salamis, joined their fellow Greeks in the Ionian cities during the unsuccessful Ionian Revolt in 499 BC against the Achaemenid Empire. The revolt was suppressed, but Cyprus managed to maintain a high degree of autonomy and remained oriented towards the Greek world.\n\nThe island was conquered by Alexander the Great in 333 BC. Following his death and the subsequent division of his empire and wars among his successors, Cyprus became part of the Hellenistic empire of Ptolemaic Egypt. It was during this period that the island was fully Hellenized. In 58 BC Cyprus was acquired by the Roman Republic.\n\nWhen the Roman Empire was divided into Eastern and Western parts in 395, Cyprus became part of the East Roman, or Byzantine Empire, and would remain so until the Crusades some 800 years later. Under Byzantine rule, the Greek orientation that had been prominent since antiquity developed the strong Hellenistic-Christian character that continues to be a hallmark of the Greek Cypriot community.\n\nBeginning in 649, Cyprus endured several attacks launched by raiders from the Levant, which continued for the next 300 years. Many were quick piratical raids, but others were large-scale attacks in which many Cypriots were slaughtered and great wealth carried off or destroyed.\n\nThere are no Byzantine churches which survive from this period; thousands of people were killed, and many cities – such as Salamis – were destroyed and never rebuilt. Byzantine rule was restored in 965, when Emperor Nikephoros II Phokas scored decisive victories on land and sea.\n\nIn 1191, during the Third Crusade, Richard I of England captured the island from Isaac Komnenos of Cyprus He used it as a major supply base that was relatively safe from the Saracens. A year later Richard sold the island to the Knights Templar, who, following a bloody revolt, in turn sold it to Guy of Lusignan. His brother and successor Aimery was recognised as King of Cyprus by Henry VI, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nFollowing the death in 1473 of James II, the last Lusignan king, the Republic of Venice assumed control of the island, while the late king's Venetian widow, Queen Catherine Cornaro, reigned as figurehead. Venice formally annexed the Kingdom of Cyprus in 1489, following the abdication of Catherine. The Venetians fortified Nicosia by building the Walls of Nicosia, and used it as an important commercial hub. Throughout Venetian rule, the Ottoman Empire frequently raided Cyprus. In 1539 the Ottomans destroyed Limassol and so fearing the worst, the Venetians also fortified Famagusta and Kyrenia.\n\nAlthough the Lusignan French aristocracy remained the dominant social class in Cyprus throughout the medieval period, the former assumption that Greeks were treated only as serfs on the island is no longer considered by academics to be accurate. It is now accepted that the medieval period saw increasing numbers of Greek Cypriots elevated to the upper classes, a growing Greek middle ranks, and the Lusignan royal household even marrying Greeks. This included King John II of Cyprus who married Helena Palaiologina.\n\nIn 1570, a full-scale Ottoman assault with 60,000 troops brought the island under Ottoman control, despite stiff resistance by the inhabitants of Nicosia and Famagusta. Ottoman forces capturing Cyprus massacred many Greek and Armenian Christian inhabitants. The previous Latin elite were destroyed and the first significant demographic change since antiquity took place with the formation of a Muslim community. Soldiers who fought in the conquest settled on the island and Turkish peasants and craftsmen were brought to the island from Anatolia. This new community also included banished Anatolian tribes, \"undesirable\" persons and members of various \"troublesome\" Muslim sects, as well as a number of new converts on the island.\n\nThe Ottomans abolished the feudal system previously in place and applied the millet system to Cyprus, under which non-Muslim peoples were governed by their own religious authorities. In a reversal from the days of Latin rule, the head of the Church of Cyprus was invested as leader of the Greek Cypriot population and acted as mediator between Christian Greek Cypriots and the Ottoman authorities. This status ensured that the Church of Cyprus was in a position to end the constant encroachments of the Roman Catholic Church. Ottoman rule of Cyprus was at times indifferent, at times oppressive, depending on the temperaments of the sultans and local officials, and the island began over 250 years of economic decline.\n\nThe ratio of Muslims to Christians fluctuated throughout the period of Ottoman domination. In 1777–78, 47,000 Muslims constituted a majority over the island's 37,000 Christians. By 1872, the population of the island had risen to 144,000, comprising 44,000 Muslims and 100,000 Christians. The Muslim population included numerous crypto-Christians, including the Linobambaki, a crypto-Catholic community that arose due to religious persecution of the Catholic community by the Ottoman authorities; this community would assimilate into the Turkish Cypriot community during British rule.\n\nAs soon as the Greek War of Independence broke out in 1821, several Greek Cypriots left for Greece to join the Greek forces. In response, the Ottoman governor of Cyprus arrested and executed 486 prominent Greek Cypriots, including the Archbishop of Cyprus, Kyprianos, and four other bishops. In 1828, modern Greece's first president Ioannis Kapodistrias called for union of Cyprus with Greece, and numerous minor uprisings took place. Reaction to Ottoman misrule led to uprisings by both Greek and Turkish Cypriots, although none were successful. After centuries of neglect by the Turks, the unrelenting poverty of most of the people, and the ever-present tax collectors fuelled Greek nationalism, and by the 20th century idea of \"enosis\", or union, with newly independent Greece was firmly rooted among Greek Cypriots.\n\nUnder the Ottoman rule, numeracy, school enrollment and literacy rates were all low. They persisted sometime after Ottoman rule ended and then increased rapidly during the twentieth century.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878) and the Congress of Berlin, Cyprus was leased to the British Empire which de facto took over its administration in 1878 (though, in terms of sovereignty, Cyprus remained a \"de jure\" Ottoman territory until 5 November 1914, together with Egypt and Sudan) in exchange for guarantees that Britain would use the island as a base to protect the Ottoman Empire against possible Russian aggression.\nThe island would serve Britain as a key military base for its colonial routes. By 1906, when the Famagusta harbour was completed, Cyprus was a strategic naval outpost overlooking the Suez Canal, the crucial main route to India which was then Britain's most important overseas possession. Following the outbreak of the First World War and the decision of the Ottoman Empire to join the war on the side of the Central Powers, on 5 November 1914 the British Empire formally annexed Cyprus and declared the Ottoman \"Khedivate\" of Egypt and Sudan a \"Sultanate\" and British protectorate.\n\nIn 1915, Britain offered Cyprus to Greece, ruled by King Constantine I of Greece, on condition that Greece join the war on the side of the British. The offer was declined. In 1923, under the Treaty of Lausanne, the nascent Turkish republic relinquished any claim to Cyprus, and in 1925 it was declared a British crown colony. Many Greek and Turkish Cypriots fought in the British Army during both world wars. During the Second World War, many enlisted in the Cyprus Regiment.\n\nThe Greek Cypriot population, meanwhile, had become hopeful that the British administration would lead to \"enosis\". The idea of \"enosis\" was historically part of the \"Megali Idea\", a greater political ambition of a Greek state encompassing the territories with Greek inhabitants in the former Ottoman Empire, including Cyprus and Asia Minor with a capital in Constantinople, and was actively pursued by the Cypriot Orthodox Church, which had its members educated in Greece. These religious officials, together with Greek military officers and professionals, some of whom still pursued the \"Megali Idea\", would later found the guerrilla organisation \"Ethniki Organosis Kyprion Agoniston or\" National Organisation of Cypriot Fighters (EOKA). The Greek Cypriots viewed the island as historically Greek and believed that union with Greece was a natural right. In the 1950s, the pursuit of \"enosis\" became a part of the Greek national policy,\n\nInitially, the Turkish Cypriots favoured the continuation of the British rule. However, they were alarmed by the Greek Cypriot calls for \"enosis\" as they saw the union of Crete with Greece, which led to the exodus of Cretan Turks, as a precedent to be avoided, and they took a pro-partition stance in response to the militant activity of EOKA. The Turkish Cypriots also viewed themselves as a distinct ethnic group of the island and believed in their having a separate right to self-determination from Greek Cypriots. Meanwhile, in the 1950s, Turkish leader Menderes considered Cyprus an \"extension of Anatolia\", rejected the partition of Cyprus along ethnic lines and favoured the annexation of the whole island to Turkey. Nationalistic slogans centred on the idea that \"Cyprus is Turkish\" and the ruling party declared Cyprus to be a part of the Turkish homeland that was vital to its security. Upon realising the fact that the Turkish Cypriot population was only 20% of the islanders made annexation unfeasible, the national policy was changed to favour partition. The slogan \"Partition or Death\" was frequently used in Turkish Cypriot and Turkish protests starting in the late 1950s and continuing throughout the 1960s. Although after the Zürich and London conferences Turkey seemed to accept the existence of the Cypriot state and to distance itself from its policy of favouring the partition of the island, the goal of the Turkish and Turkish Cypriot leaders remained that of creating an independent Turkish state in the northern part of the island.\n\nIn January 1950, the Church of Cyprus organised a referendum under the supervision of clerics and with no Turkish Cypriot participation, where 96% of the participating Greek Cypriots voted in favour of \"enosis\", The Greeks were 80.2% of the total island' s population at the time (census 1946). Restricted autonomy under a constitution was proposed by the British administration but eventually rejected. In 1955 the EOKA organisation was founded, seeking union with Greece through armed struggle. At the same time the Turkish Resistance Organisation (TMT), calling for Taksim, or partition, was established by the Turkish Cypriots as a counterweight. British officials also tolerated the creation of the Turkish underground organisation T.M.T. The Secretary of State for the Colonies in a letter dated 15 July 1958 had advised the Governor of Cyprus not to act against T.M.T despite its illegal actions so as not to harm British relations with the Turkish government.\n\nOn 16 August 1960, Cyprus attained independence after the Zürich and London Agreement between the United Kingdom, Greece and Turkey. Cyprus had a total population of 573,566; of whom 442,138 (77.1%) were Greeks, 104,320 (18.2%) Turks, and 27,108 (4.7%) others. The UK retained the two Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia, while government posts and public offices were allocated by ethnic quotas, giving the minority Turkish Cypriots a permanent veto, 30% in parliament and administration, and granting the three mother-states guarantor rights.\n\nHowever, the division of power as foreseen by the constitution soon resulted in legal impasses and discontent on both sides, and nationalist militants started training again, with the military support of Greece and Turkey respectively. The Greek Cypriot leadership believed that the rights given to Turkish Cypriots under the 1960 constitution were too extensive and designed the Akritas plan, which was aimed at reforming the constitution in favour of Greek Cypriots, persuading the international community about the correctness of the changes and violently subjugating Turkish Cypriots in a few days should they not accept the plan. Tensions were heightened when Cypriot President Archbishop Makarios III called for constitutional changes, which were rejected by Turkey and opposed by Turkish Cypriots.\n\nIntercommunal violence erupted on 21 December 1963, when two Turkish Cypriots were killed at an incident involving the Greek Cypriot police. The violence resulted in the death of 364 Turkish and 174 Greek Cypriots, destruction of 109 Turkish Cypriot or mixed villages and displacement of 25,000–30,000 Turkish Cypriots. The crisis resulted in the end of the Turkish Cypriot involvement in the administration and their claiming that it had lost its legitimacy; the nature of this event is still controversial. In some areas, Greek Cypriots prevented Turkish Cypriots from travelling and entering government buildings, while some Turkish Cypriots willingly withdrew due to the calls of the Turkish Cypriot administration. Turkish Cypriots started living in enclaves; the republic's structure was changed, unilaterally, by Makarios and Nicosia was divided by the Green Line, with the deployment of UNFICYP troops.\n\nIn 1964, Turkey threatened to invade Cyprus in response to the continuing Cypriot intercommunal violence, but this was stopped by a strongly worded telegram from the US President Lyndon B. Johnson on 5 June, warning that the US would not stand beside Turkey in case of a consequential Soviet invasion of Turkish territory. Meanwhile, by 1964, \"enosis\" was a Greek policy that could not be abandoned; Makarios and the Greek prime minister Georgios Papandreou agreed that \"enosis\" should be the ultimate aim and King Constantine wished Cyprus \"a speedy union with the mother country\". Greece dispatched 10,000 troops to Cyprus to counter a possible Turkish invasion.\n\nOn 15 July 1974, the Greek military junta under Dimitrios Ioannides carried out a coup d'état in Cyprus, to unite the island with Greece. The coup ousted president Makarios III and replaced him with pro-enosis nationalist Nikos Sampson. In response to the coup, five days later, on 20 July 1974, the Turkish army invaded the island, citing a right to intervene to restore the constitutional order from the 1960 Treaty of Guarantee. This justification has been rejected by the United Nations and the international community.\n\nThe Turkish air force began bombing Greek positions in Cyprus, and hundreds of paratroopers were dropped in the area between Nicosia and Kyrenia, where well-armed Turkish Cypriot enclaves had been long-established; while off the Kyrenia coast, Turkish troop ships landed 6,000 men as well as tanks, trucks and armoured vehicles.\n\nThree days later, when a ceasefire had been agreed, Turkey had landed 30,000 troops on the island and captured Kyrenia, the corridor linking Kyrenia to Nicosia, and the Turkish Cypriot quarter of Nicosia itself. The junta in Athens, and then the Sampson regime in Cyprus fell from power. In Nicosia, Glafkos Clerides assumed the presidency and constitutional order was restored, removing the pretext for the Turkish invasion. But after the peace negotiations in Geneva, the Turkish government reinforced their Kyrenia bridgehead and started a second invasion on 14 August. The invasion resulted in the seizure of Morphou, Karpass, Famagusta and the Mesaoria.\n\nInternational pressure led to a ceasefire, and by then 36% of the island had been taken over by the Turks and 180,000 Greek Cypriots had been evicted from their homes in the north. At the same time, around 50,000 Turkish Cypriots were displaced to the north and settled in the properties of the displaced Greek Cypriots. Among a variety of sanctions against Turkey, in mid-1975 the US Congress imposed an arms embargo on Turkey for using American-supplied equipment during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974. There were 1,534 Greek Cypriots and 502 Turkish Cypriots missing as a result of the fighting.\n\nAfter the restoration of constitutional order and the return of Archbishop Makarios III to Cyprus in December 1974, Turkish troops remained, occupying the northeastern portion of the island. In 1983, the Turkish Cypriot leader proclaimed the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), which is recognised only by Turkey.\n\nThe events of the summer of 1974 dominate the politics on the island, as well as Greco-Turkish relations. Around 150,000 settlers from Turkey are believed to be living in the north—many of whom were forced from Turkey by the Turkish government—in violation of the Geneva Convention and various UN resolutions.\n\nThe Turkish invasion, the ensuing occupation and the declaration of independence by the TRNC have been condemned by United Nations resolutions, which are reaffirmed by the Security Council every year. The last major effort to settle the Cyprus dispute was the Annan Plan in 2004, drafted by the then Secretary General, Kofi Annan. The plan was put to a referendum in both Northern Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus. 65% of Turkish Cypriots voted in support of the plan and 74% Greek Cypriots voted against the plan, claiming that it disproportionately favoured the Turkish side.\nIn total, 66.7% of the voters rejected the Annan Plan V.\nOn 1 May 2004 Cyprus joined the European Union, together with nine other countries. Cyprus was accepted into the EU as a whole, although the EU legislation is suspended in Northern Cyprus until a final settlement of the Cyprus problem. In July 2006, the island served as a haven for people fleeing Lebanon, due to the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah (also called \"The July War\").\n\nEfforts have been made to enhance freedom of movement between the two sides. In April 2003, Northern Cyprus unilaterally eased border restrictions, permitting Cypriots to cross between the two sides for the first time in 30 years. In March 2008, a wall that had stood for decades at the boundary between the Republic of Cyprus and the UN buffer zone was demolished. The wall had cut across Ledra Street in the heart of Nicosia and was seen as a strong symbol of the island's 32-year division. On 3 April 2008, Ledra Street was reopened in the presence of Greek and Turkish Cypriot officials. North and South relaunched reunification talks on 15 May 2015.\n\nCyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, after the Italian islands of Sicily and Sardinia (both in terms of area and population). It is also the world's 80th largest by area and world's 51st largest by population. It measures long from end to end and wide at its widest point, with Turkey to the north. It lies between latitudes 34° and 36° N, and longitudes 32° and 35° E.\n\nOther neighbouring territories include Syria and Lebanon to the east (, respectively), Israel to the southeast, Egypt to the south, and Greece to the northwest: to the small Dodecanesian island of Kastellorizo (Megisti), to Rhodes and to the Greek mainland. Sources alternatively place Cyprus in Europe, or Western Asia and the Middle East.\n\nThe physical relief of the island is dominated by two mountain ranges, the Troodos Mountains and the smaller Kyrenia Range, and the central plain they encompass, the Mesaoria. The Mesaoria plain is drained by the Pedieos River, the longest on the island. The Troodos Mountains cover most of the southern and western portions of the island and account for roughly half its area. The highest point on Cyprus is Mount Olympus at , located in the centre of the Troodos range. The narrow Kyrenia Range, extending along the northern coastline, occupies substantially less area, and elevations are lower, reaching a maximum of . The island lies within the Anatolian Plate.\nGeopolitically, the island is subdivided into four main segments. The Republic of Cyprus occupies the southern two-thirds of the island (59.74%). The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus occupies the northern third (34.85%), and the United Nations-controlled Green Line provides a buffer zone that separates the two and covers 2.67% of the island. Lastly, two bases under British sovereignty are located on the island: Akrotiri and Dhekelia, covering the remaining 2.74%.\n\nCyprus has a subtropical climate – Mediterranean and semi-arid type (in the north-eastern part of the island) – Köppen climate classifications \"Csa\" and \"BSh\", with very mild winters (on the coast) and warm to hot summers. Snow is possible only in the Troodos Mountains in the central part of island. Rain occurs mainly in winter, with summer being generally dry.\n\nCyprus has one of the warmest climates in the Mediterranean part of the European Union. The average annual temperature on the coast is around during the day and at night. Generally, summers last about eight months, beginning in April with average temperatures of during the day and at night, and ending in November with average temperatures of during the day and at night, although in the remaining four months temperatures sometimes exceed .\n\nAmong all cities in the Mediterranean part of the European Union, Limassol has one of the warmest winters, in the period January – February average temperature is during the day and at night, in other coastal locations in Cyprus is generally during the day and at night. During March, Limassol has average temperatures of during the day and at night, in other coastal locations in Cyprus is generally during the day and at night.\n\nThe middle of summer is hot – in July and August on the coast the average temperature is usually around during the day and around at night (inland, in the highlands average temperature exceeds ) while in the June and September on the coast the average temperature is usually around during the day and around at night in Limassol, while is usually around during the day and around at night in Paphos. Large fluctuations in temperature are rare. Inland temperatures are more extreme, with colder winters and hotter summers compared with the coast of the island.\n\nAverage annual temperature of sea is , from in February to in August (depending on the location). In total 7 months – from May to November – the average sea temperature exceeds .\n\nSunshine hours on the coast are around 3,200 per year, from an average of 5–6 hours of sunshine per day in December to an average of 12–13 hours in July. This is about double that of cities in the northern half of Europe; for comparison, London receives about 1,540 per year. In December, London receives about 50 hours of sunshine while coastal locations in Cyprus about 180 hours (almost as much as in May in London).\n\nCyprus suffers from a chronic shortage of water. The country relies heavily on rain to provide household water, but in the past 30 years average yearly precipitation has decreased. Between 2001 and 2004, exceptionally heavy annual rainfall pushed water reserves up, with supply exceeding demand, allowing total storage in the island's reservoirs to rise to an all-time high by the start of 2005.\nHowever, since then demand has increased annually – a result of local population growth, foreigners moving to Cyprus and the number of visiting tourists – while supply has fallen as a result of more frequent droughts.\n\nDams remain the principal source of water both for domestic and agricultural use; Cyprus has a total of 107 dams (plus one currently under construction) and reservoirs, with a total water storage capacity of about . Water desalination plants are gradually being constructed to deal with recent years of prolonged drought.\nThe Government has invested heavily in the creation of water desalination plants which have supplied almost 50 per cent of domestic water since 2001. Efforts have also been made to raise public awareness of the situation and to encourage domestic water users to take more responsibility for the conservation of this increasingly scarce commodity.\n\nTurkey has built a water pipeline under the Mediterranean Sea from Anamur on its southern coast to the northern coast of Cyprus, to supply Northern Cyprus with potable and irrigation water \"(see Northern Cyprus Water Supply Project)\".\n\nCyprus is a presidential republic. The head of state and of the government is elected by a process of universal suffrage for a five-year term. Executive power is exercised by the government with legislative power vested in the House of Representatives whilst the Judiciary is independent of both the executive and the legislature.\n\nThe 1960 Constitution provided for a presidential system of government with independent executive, legislative and judicial branches as well as a complex system of checks and balances including a weighted power-sharing ratio designed to protect the interests of the Turkish Cypriots. The executive was led by a Greek Cypriot president and a Turkish Cypriot vice-president elected by their respective communities for five-year terms and each possessing a right of veto over certain types of legislation and executive decisions. Legislative power rested on the House of Representatives who were also elected on the basis of separate voters' rolls.\n\nSince 1965, following clashes between the two communities, the Turkish Cypriot seats in the House remain vacant. In 1974 Cyprus was divided \"de facto\" when the Turkish army occupied the northern third of the island. The Turkish Cypriots subsequently declared independence in 1983 as the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus but were recognised only by Turkey. In 1985 the TRNC adopted a constitution and held its first elections. The United Nations recognises the sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus over the entire island of Cyprus.\n\nThe House of Representatives currently has 59 members elected for a five-year term, 56 members by proportional representation and 3 observer members representing the Armenian, Latin and Maronite minorities. 24 seats are allocated to the Turkish community but remain vacant since 1964. The political environment is dominated by the communist AKEL, the liberal conservative Democratic Rally, the centrist Democratic Party, the social-democratic EDEK and the centrist EURO.KO.\nIn 2008, Dimitris Christofias became the country's first Communist head of state. Due to his involvement in the 2012–13 Cypriot financial crisis, Christofias did not run for re-election in 2013. The Presidential election in 2013 resulted in Democratic Rally candidate Nicos Anastasiades winning 57.48% of the vote. As a result, Anastasiades was sworn in on and has been President since 28 February 2013. Anastasiades was re-elected with 56% of the vote in the 2018 presidential election.\n\nThe Republic of Cyprus is divided into six districts: Nicosia, Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol and Paphos.\n\nCyprus has four exclaves, all in territory that belongs to the British Sovereign Base Area of Dhekelia. The first two are the villages of Ormidhia and Xylotymvou. The third is the Dhekelia Power Station, which is divided by a British road into two parts. The northern part is the EAC refugee settlement. The southern part, even though located by the sea, is also an exclave because it has no territorial waters of its own, those being U.K. waters.\n\nThe UN buffer zone runs up against Dhekelia and picks up again from its east side off Ayios Nikolaos and is connected to the rest of Dhekelia by a thin land corridor. In that sense the buffer zone turns the Paralimni area on the southeast corner of the island into a \"de facto\", though not \"de jure\", exclave.\n\nThe Republic of Cyprus is a member of the following international groups: Australia Group, CN, CE, CFSP, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ITUC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITU, MIGA, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTO.\n\nThe Cyprus Police (Greek: , ) is the only National Police Service of the Republic of Cyprus and is under the Ministry of Justice and Public Order since 1993.\n\nIn \"Freedom in the World 2011\", Freedom House rated Cyprus as \"free\". In January 2011, the Report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the question of Human Rights in Cyprus noted that the ongoing division of Cyprus continues to affect human rights throughout the island \"... including freedom of movement, human rights pertaining to the question of missing persons, discrimination, the right to life, freedom of religion, and economic, social and cultural rights.\" The constant focus on the division of the island can sometimes mask other human rights issues.\n\nIn 2014, Turkey was ordered by the European Court of Human Rights to pay well over $100m in compensation to Cyprus for the invasion; Ankara announced that it would ignore the judgment. In 2014, a group of Cypriot refugees and a European parliamentarian, later joined by the Cypriot government, filed a complaint to the International Court of Justice, accusing Turkey of violating the Geneva Conventions by directly or indirectly transferring its civilian population into occupied territory. Over the preceding ten years, civilian transfer by Turkey had \"reached new heights\", in the words of one US ambassador. Other violations of the Geneva and the Hague Conventions—both ratified by Turkey—amount to what archaeologist Sophocles Hadjisavvas called \"the organized destruction of Greek and Christian heritage in the north\". These violations include looting of cultural treasures, deliberate destruction of churches, neglect of works of art, and altering the names of important historical sites, which was condemned by the International Council on Monuments and Sites. Hadjisavvas has asserted that these actions are motivated by a Turkish policy of erasing the Greek presence in Northern Cyprus within a framework of ethnic cleansing, as well as by greed and profit-seeking on the part of the individuals involved.\n\nThe Cypriot National Guard is the main military institution of the Republic of Cyprus. It is a combined arms force, with land, air and naval elements. Historically all men were required to spend 24 months serving in the National Guard after their 17th birthday, but in 2016 this period of compulsory service was reduced to 14 months.\n\nIn the early 21st century the Cypriot economy has diversified and become prosperous. However, in 2012 it became affected by the Eurozone financial and banking crisis. In June 2012, the Cypriot government announced it would need € in foreign aid to support the Cyprus Popular Bank, and this was followed by Fitch downgrading Cyprus's credit rating to junk status. Fitch said Cyprus would need an additional € to support its banks and the downgrade was mainly due to the exposure of Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank and Hellenic Bank, Cyprus's three largest banks, to the Greek financial crisis.\n\nThe 2012–2013 Cypriot financial crisis led to an agreement with the Eurogroup in March 2013 to split the country's second largest bank, the Cyprus Popular Bank (also known as Laiki Bank), into a \"bad\" bank which would be wound down over time and a \"good\" bank which would be absorbed by the Bank of Cyprus. In return for a €10 billion bailout from the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, often referred to as the \"troika\", the Cypriot government was required to impose a significant haircut on uninsured deposits, a large proportion of which were held by wealthy Russians who used Cyprus as a tax haven. Insured deposits of €100,000 or less were not affected.\n\nAccording to the 2017 International Monetary Fund estimates, its per capita GDP (adjusted for purchasing power) at $36,442 is below the average of the European Union. Cyprus has been sought as a base for several offshore businesses for its low tax rates. Tourism, financial services and shipping are significant parts of the economy. Economic policy of the Cyprus government has focused on meeting the criteria for admission to the European Union. The Cypriot government adopted the euro as the national currency on 1 January 2008.\n\nCyprus is last EU member fully isolated from energy interconnections and it is expected that will be connected to European network via EuroAsia Interconnector, 2000 MW HVDC undersea power cable. EuroAsia Interconnector will connect Greek, Cypriot, and Israeli power grids. It is a leading Project of Common Interest of the European Union and also priority Electricity Highway Interconnector Project.\n\nIn recent years significant quantities of offshore natural gas have been discovered in the area known as Aphrodite (at the exploratory drilling block 12) in Cyprus' exclusive economic zone (EEZ), about south of Limassol at 33°5'40″N and 32°59'0″E. However, Turkey's offshore drilling companies have accessed both natural gas and oil resources since 2013. Cyprus demarcated its maritime border with Egypt in 2003, with Lebanon in 2007, and with Israel in 2010. In August 2011, the US-based firm Noble Energy entered into a production-sharing agreement with the Cypriot government regarding the block's commercial development.\n\nTurkey, which does not recognise the border agreements of Cyprus with its neighbours, threatened to mobilise its naval forces if Cyprus proceeded with plans to begin drilling at Block 12. Cyprus' drilling efforts have the support of the US, EU, and UN, and on 19 September 2011 drilling in Block 12 began without any incidents being reported.\n\nBecause of the heavy influx of tourists and foreign investors, the property rental market in Cyprus has grown in recent years. In late 2013, the Cyprus Town Planning Department announced a series of incentives to stimulate the property market and increase the number of property developments in the country's town centres. This followed earlier measures to quickly give immigration permits to third country nationals investing in Cyprus property.\n\nAvailable modes of transport are by road, sea and air. Of the of roads in the Republic of Cyprus in 1998, were paved, and were unpaved. In 1996 the Turkish-occupied area had a similar ratio of paved to unpaved, with approximately of paved road and unpaved. Cyprus is one of only four EU nations in which vehicles drive on the left-hand side of the road, a remnant of British colonisation (the others being Ireland, Malta and the United Kingdom). A series of motorways runs along the coast from Paphos east to Ayia Napa, with two motorways running inland to Nicosia, one from Limassol and one from Larnaca.\n\nPer capita private car ownership is the 29th-highest in the world. There were approximately 344,000 privately owned vehicles, and a total of 517,000 registered motor vehicles in the Republic of Cyprus in 2006. In 2006, plans were announced to improve and expand bus services and other public transport throughout Cyprus, with the financial backing of the European Union Development Bank. In 2010 the new bus network was implemented.\n\nCyprus has several heliports and two international airports: Larnaca International Airport and Paphos International Airport. A third airport, Ercan International Airport, operates in the Turkish Cypriot administered area with direct flights only to Turkey (Turkish Cypriot ports are closed to international traffic apart from Turkey). Nicosia International Airport has been closed since 1974.\n\nThe main harbours of the island are Limassol and Larnaca, which service cargo, passenger and cruise ships.\n\nCyta, the state-owned telecommunications company, manages most telecommunications and Internet connections on the island. However, following deregulation of the sector, a few private telecommunications companies emerged, including MTN, Cablenet, OTEnet Telecom, Omega Telecom and PrimeTel. In the Turkish-controlled area of Cyprus, three different companies are present: Turkcell, KKTC Telsim and Turk Telekom.\n\nAccording to the CIA World Factbook, in 2001 Greek Cypriots comprised 77%, Turkish Cypriots 18%, and others 5% of the Cypriot population. At the time of the 2011 government census, there were 10,520 people of Russian origin living in Cyprus.\n\nAccording to the first population census after the declaration of independence, carried out in December 1960 and covering the entire island, Cyprus had a total population of 573,566; of whom 442,138 (77.1%) were Greeks, 104,320 (18.2%) Turkish, and 27,108 (4.7%) others.\n\nDue to the inter-communal ethnic tensions between 1963 and 1974, an island-wide census was regarded as impossible. Nevertheless, the Cypriot government conducted one in 1973, without the Turkish Cypriot populace. According to this census, the Greek Cypriot population was 482,000. One year later, in 1974, the Cypriot government's Department of Statistics and Research estimated the total population of Cyprus at 641,000; of whom 506,000 (78.9%) were Greeks, and 118,000 (18.4%) Turkish. After the partition of the island in 1974, the government of Cyprus conducted four more censuses: in 1976, 1982, 1992 and 2001; these excluded the Turkish population which was resident in the northern part of the island.\n\nAccording to the Republic of Cyprus's latest estimate, in 2005, the number of Cypriot citizens currently living in the Republic of Cyprus is around 871,036. In addition to this, the Republic of Cyprus is home to 110,200 foreign permanent residents and an estimated 10,000–30,000 undocumented illegal immigrants currently living in the south of the island.\n\nAccording to the 2006 census carried out by Northern Cyprus, there were 256,644 (de jure) people living in Northern Cyprus. 178,031 were citizens of Northern Cyprus, of whom 147,405 were born in Cyprus (112,534 from the north; 32,538 from the south; 371 did not indicate what part of Cyprus they were from); 27,333 born in Turkey; 2,482 born in the UK and 913 born in Bulgaria. Of the 147,405 citizens born in Cyprus, 120,031 say both parents were born in Cyprus; 16,824 say both parents born in Turkey; 10,361 have one parent born in Turkey and one parent born in Cyprus.\n\nIn 2010, the International Crisis Group estimated that the total population of Cyprus was 1.1 million, of which there was an estimated 300,000 residents in the north, perhaps half of whom were either born in Turkey or are children of such settlers.\n\nThe villages of Rizokarpaso (only one in the north), Potamia (Nicosia district) and Pyla (Larnaca District) are the only settlements remaining with a mixed Greek and Turkish Cypriot population.\n\nY-Dna haplogroups are found at the following frequencies in Cyprus: J (43.07% including 6.20% J1), E1b1b (20.00%), R1 (12.30% including 9.2% R1b), F (9.20%), I (7.70%), K (4.60%), A (3.10%). J, K, F and E1b1b haplogroups consist of lineages with differential distribution within Middle East, North Africa and Europe while R1 and I are typical in West European populations.\n\nOutside Cyprus there is a significant and thriving Greek Cypriot diaspora and Turkish Cypriot diaspora in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, the United States, Greece and Turkey.\n\nThe majority of Greek Cypriots identify as Greek Orthodox, whereas most Turkish Cypriots are adherents of Sunni Islam. According to Eurobarometer 2005, Cyprus was the second most religious state in the European Union at that time, after Malta (although in 2005 Romania wasn't in the European Union; currently Romania is the most religious state in the European Union) \"(see Religion in the European Union)\". The first President of Cyprus, Makarios III, was an archbishop. The current leader of the Greek Orthodox Church of Cyprus is Archbishop Chrysostomos II.\n\nHala Sultan Tekke, situated near the Larnaca Salt Lake, is considered by some secular orientalists as the third holiest site in Sunni Islam and an object of pilgrimage for both Muslims and Christians.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census carried out in the Government-controlled area, 94.8% of the population are Eastern Orthodox, 0.9% Armenians and Maronites, 1.5% Roman Catholics, 1.0% Church of England, and 0.6% Muslims. There is also a Jewish community on Cyprus. The remaining 1.3% adhere to other religious denominations or did not state their religion.\n\nCyprus has two official languages, Greek and Turkish. Armenian and Cypriot Maronite Arabic are recognised as minority languages. Although without official status, English is widely spoken and it features widely on road signs, public notices, and in advertisements, etc. English was the sole official language during British colonial rule and the lingua franca until 1960, and continued to be used (\"de facto\") in courts of law until 1989 and in legislation until 1996. 80.4% of Cypriots are proficient in the English language as a second language.<ref name=\"eurostat 49/2010\"></ref> Russian is widely spoken among the country's minorities, residents and citizens of post-Soviet countries, and Pontic Greeks. Russian, after English and Greek, is the third language used on many signs of shops and restaurants, particularly in Limassol and Paphos. In addition to these languages, 12% speak French and 5% speak German.\n\nThe everyday spoken language of Greek Cypriots is Cypriot Greek and that of Turkish Cypriots is Cypriot Turkish. These vernaculars both differ from their standard registers significantly.\n\nCyprus has a highly developed system of primary and secondary education offering both public and private education. The high quality of instruction can be attributed in part to the fact that nearly 7% of the GDP is spent on education which makes Cyprus one of the top three spenders of education in the EU along with Denmark and Sweden.\n\nState schools are generally seen as equivalent in quality of education to private-sector institutions. However, the value of a state high-school diploma is limited by the fact that the grades obtained account for only around 25% of the final grade for each topic, with the remaining 75% assigned by the teacher during the semester, in a minimally transparent way. Cypriot universities (like universities in Greece) ignore high school grades almost entirely for admissions purposes. While a high-school diploma is mandatory for university attendance, admissions are decided almost exclusively on the basis of scores at centrally administered university entrance examinations that all university candidates are required to take.\n\nThe majority of Cypriots receive their higher education at Greek, British, Turkish, other European and North American universities. It is noteworthy that Cyprus currently has the highest percentage of citizens of working age who have higher-level education in the EU at 30% which is ahead of Finland's 29.5%. In addition, 47% of its population aged 25–34 have tertiary education, which is the highest in the EU. The body of Cypriot students is highly mobile, with 78.7% studying in a university outside Cyprus.\n\nGreek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots share a lot in common in their culture but also have differences. Several traditional food (such as souvla and halloumi) and beverages are similar, as well as expressions and ways of life. Hospitality and buying or offering food and drinks for guests or others are common among both. In both communities, music, dance and art are integral parts of social life and many artistic, verbal and nonverbal expressions, traditional dances such as tsifteteli, similarities in dance costumes and importance placed on social activities are shared between the communities. However, the two communities have distinct religions and religious cultures, with the Greek Cypriots traditionally being Greek Orthodox and Turkish Cypriots traditionally being Sunni Muslims, which has partly hindered cultural exchange. Greek Cypriots have influences from Greece and Christianity, while Turkish Cypriots have influences from Turkey and Islam.\n\nThe Limassol Carnival Festival is an annual carnival which is held at Limassol, in Cyprus. The event which is very popular in Cyprus was introduced in the 20th century.\n\nThe art history of Cyprus can be said to stretch back up to 10,000 years, following the discovery of a series of Chalcolithic period carved figures in the villages of Khoirokoitia and Lempa. The island is the home to numerous examples of high quality religious icon painting from the Middle Ages as well as many painted churches. Cypriot architecture was heavily influenced by French Gothic and Italian renaissance introduced in the island during the era of Latin domination (1191–1571).\n\nIn modern times Cypriot art history begins with the painter Vassilis Vryonides (1883–1958) who studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Venice. Arguably the two founding fathers of modern Cypriot art were Adamantios Diamantis (1900–1994) who studied at London's Royal College of Art and Christopheros Savva (1924–1968) who also studied in London, at Saint Martin's School of Art. In many ways these two artists set the template for subsequent Cypriot art and both their artistic styles and the patterns of their education remain influential to this day. In particular the majority of Cypriot artists still train in England while others train at art schools in Greece and local art institutions such as the Cyprus College of Art, University of Nicosia and the Frederick Institute of Technology.\n\nOne of the features of Cypriot art is a tendency towards figurative painting although conceptual art is being rigorously promoted by a number of art \"institutions\" and most notably the Nicosia Municipal Art Centre. Municipal art galleries exist in all the main towns and there is a large and lively commercial art scene. Cyprus was due to host the international art festival Manifesta in 2006 but this was cancelled at the last minute following a dispute between the Dutch organizers of Manifesta and the Cyprus Ministry of Education and Culture over the location of some of the Manifesta events in the Turkish sector of the capital Nicosia. \n\nOther notable Greek Cypriot artists include Helene Black, Kalopedis family, Panayiotis Kalorkoti, Nicos Nicolaides, Stass Paraskos, Arestís Stasí, Telemachos Kanthos, Konstantia Sofokleous and Chris Achilleos, and Turkish Cypriot artists include İsmet Güney, Ruzen Atakan and Mutlu Çerkez.\n\nThe traditional folk music of Cyprus has several common elements with Greek, Turkish, and Arabic Music including Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot dances such as the \"sousta\", \"syrtos\", \"zeibekikos\", \"tatsia\", and \"karsilamas\" as well as the Middle Eastern-inspired \"tsifteteli\" and \"arapies\". There is also a form of musical poetry known as \"chattista\" which is often performed at traditional feasts and celebrations. The instruments commonly associated with Cyprus folk music are the violin (\"fkiolin\"), lute (\"laouto\"), accordion, Cyprus flute (\"pithkiavlin\"), oud (\"outi\") and percussions (including the \"toumperleki\"). Composers associated with traditional Cypriot music include Solon Michaelides, Marios Tokas, Evagoras Karageorgis and Savvas Salides. Among musicians is also the acclaimed pianist Cyprien Katsaris and composer and artistic director of the European Capital of Culture initiative Marios Joannou Elia.\n\nPopular music in Cyprus is generally influenced by the Greek \"Laïka\" scene; artists who play in this genre include international platinum star Anna Vissi, Evridiki, and Sarbel. Hip Hop, R&B and reggae have been supported by the emergence of Cypriot rap and the urban music scene at Ayia Napa. Cypriot rock music and \"Éntekhno\" rock is often associated with artists such as Michalis Hatzigiannis and Alkinoos Ioannidis. Metal also has a small following in Cyprus represented by bands such as Armageddon (rev.16:16), Blynd, Winter's Verge, Methysos and Quadraphonic.\n\nLiterary production of the antiquity includes the Cypria, an epic poem, probably composed in the late 7th century BC and attributed to Stasinus. The Cypria is one of the very first specimens of Greek and European poetry. The Cypriot Zeno of Citium was the founder of the Stoic School of Philosophy.\n\nEpic poetry, notably the \"acritic songs\", flourished during Middle Ages. Two chronicles, one written by Leontios Machairas and the other by Georgios Voustronios, cover the entire Middle Ages until the end of Frankish rule (4th century–1489). Poèmes d'amour written in medieval Greek Cypriot date back from the 16th century. Some of them are actual translations of poems written by Petrarch, Bembo, Ariosto and G. Sannazzaro. Many Cypriot scholars fled Cyprus at troubled times such as Ioannis Kigalas (c. 1622–1687) who migrated from Cyprus to Italy in the 17th century, several of his works have survived in books of other scholars.\n\nHasan Hilmi Efendi, a Turkish Cypriot poet, was rewarded by the Ottoman sultan Mahmud II and said to be the \"sultan of the poems\".\n\nModern Greek Cypriot literary figures include the poet and writer Kostas Montis, poet Kyriakos Charalambides, poet Michalis Pasiardis, writer Nicos Nicolaides, Stylianos Atteshlis, Altheides, Loukis Akritas and Demetris Th. Gotsis. Dimitris Lipertis, Vasilis Michaelides and Pavlos Liasides are folk poets who wrote poems mainly in the Cypriot-Greek dialect. Among leading Turkish Cypriot writers are Osman Türkay, twice nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature, Özker Yaşın, Neriman Cahit, Urkiye Mine Balman, Mehmet Yaşın and Neşe Yaşın.\n\nThere is an increasingly strong presence of both temporary and permanent emigre Cypriot writers in world literature, as well as writings by second and third -generation Cypriot writers born or raised abroad, often writing in English. This includes writers such as Stephen Laughton, Michael Paraskos, Stel Pavlou and Stephanos Stephanides.\n\nExamples of Cyprus in foreign literature include the works of Shakespeare, with most of the play \"Othello\" by William Shakespeare set on the island of Cyprus. British writer Lawrence Durrell lived in Cyprus from 1952 until 1956, during his time working for the British colonial government on the island, and wrote the book \"Bitter Lemons\" about his time in Cyprus which won the second Duff Cooper Prize in 1957. More recently British writer Victoria Hislop used Cyprus as the setting for her 2014 novel \"The Sunrise.\"\n\nIn the 2015 Freedom of the Press report of Freedom House, the Republic of Cyprus and Northern Cyprus were ranked \"free\". The Republic of Cyprus scored 25/100 in press freedom, 5/30 in Legal Environment, 11/40 in Political Environment, and 9/30 in Economic Environment (the lower scores the better). Reporters Without Borders rank the Republic of Cyprus 24th out of 180 countries in the 2015 World Press Freedom Index, with a score of 15.62\n\nThe law provides for freedom of speech and press, and the government generally respects these rights in practice. An independent press, an effective judiciary, and a functioning democratic political system combine to ensure freedom of speech and of the press. The law prohibits arbitrary interference with privacy, family, home, or correspondence, and the government generally respects these prohibitions in practice.\n\nLocal television companies in Cyprus include the state owned Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation which runs two television channels. In addition on the Greek side of the island there are the private channels ANT1 Cyprus, Plus TV, Mega Channel, Sigma TV, Nimonia TV (NTV) and New Extra. In Northern Cyprus, the local channels are BRT, the Turkish Cypriot equivalent to the Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation, and a number of private channels. The majority of local arts and cultural programming is produced by the Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation and BRT, with local arts documentaries, review programmes and filmed drama series.\n\nThe most worldwide known Cypriot director, to have worked abroad, is Michael Cacoyannis.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, George Filis produced and directed \"Gregoris Afxentiou\", \"Etsi Prodothike i Kypros\", and \"The Mega Document\". In 1994, Cypriot film production received a boost with the establishment of the Cinema Advisory Committee. In 2000, the annual amount set aside for filmmaking in the national budget was CYP£500,000 (about €850,000). In addition to government grants, Cypriot co-productions are eligible for funding from the Council of Europe's Eurimages Fund, which finances European film co-productions. To date, four feature films on which a Cypriot was an executive producer have received funding from Eurimages. The first was \"I Sphagi tou Kokora\" (1996), followed by \"Hellados\" (unreleased), \"To Tama\" (1999), and \"O Dromos gia tin Ithaki\" (2000).\n\nIn 2009, Greek filmmaker Vassilis Mazomenos shot the drama film \"Guilt\" in Cyprus. The film was awarded the Best Screenwriting and Best Photography award at the London Greek Film Festival, and was an official selection in the Montreal World Film Festival, Cairo International Film Festival, India International Film Festival, Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival, and Fantasporto. It was also the opening film in the Panorama of European Cinema in Athens. In 2010, the film was nominated for the best film from the Hellenic Film Academy.\n\nOnly a small number of foreign films have been made in Cyprus. This includes \"Incense for the Damned\" (1970), \"The Beloved\" (1970), and \"Ghost in the Noonday Sun\" (1973). Parts of the John Wayne film \"The Longest Day\" (1962) were also filmed in Cyprus.\n\nHalloumi cheese originated in Cyprus and was initially made during the Medieval Byzantine period. Halloumi (Hellim) is commonly served sliced, either fresh or grilled, as an appetiser.\n\nSeafood and fish dishes include squid, octopus, red mullet, and sea bass. Cucumber and tomato are used widely in salads. Common vegetable preparations include potatoes in olive oil and parsley, pickled cauliflower and beets, asparagus and taro. Other traditional delicacies are meat marinated in dried coriander seeds and wine, and eventually dried and smoked, such as \"lountza\" (smoked pork loin), charcoal-grilled lamb, souvlaki (pork and chicken cooked over charcoal), and sheftalia (minced meat wrapped in mesentery). \"Pourgouri\" (bulgur, cracked wheat) is the traditional source of carbohydrate other than bread, and is used to make the delicacy koubes.\n\nFresh vegetables and fruits are common ingredients. Frequently used vegetables include courgettes, green peppers, okra, green beans, artichokes, carrots, tomatoes, cucumbers, lettuce and grape leaves, and pulses such as beans, broad beans, peas, black-eyed beans, chick-peas and lentils. The most common fruits and nuts are pears, apples, grapes, oranges, mandarines, nectarines, medlar, blackberries, cherry, strawberries, figs, watermelon, melon, avocado, lemon, pistachio, almond, chestnut, walnut, and hazelnut.\n\nCyprus is also well known for its desserts, including \"lokum\" (also known as Turkish Delight) and Soutzoukos. This island has protected geographical indication (PGI) for its \"lokum\" produced in the village of Geroskipou.\n\nSport governing bodies include the Cyprus Football Association, Cyprus Basketball Federation, Cyprus Volleyball Federation, Cyprus Automobile Association, Cyprus Badminton Federation, Cyprus Cricket Association, Cyprus Rugby Federation and the Cyprus Pool Association.\n\nNotable teams in the Cyprus League include APOEL FC, Anorthosis Famagusta FC, AC Omonia, AEL Lemesos, Apollon FC, Nea Salamis Famagusta FC and AEK Larnaca FC. Stadiums or sports venues include the GSP Stadium (the largest in the Republic of Cyprus-controlled areas), Tsirion Stadium (second largest), Neo GSZ Stadium, Antonis Papadopoulos Stadium, Ammochostos Stadium and Makario Stadium.\n\nIn the 2008–09 season, Anorthosis Famagusta FC was the first Cypriot team to qualify for the UEFA Champions League Group stage. Next season, APOEL FC qualified for the UEFA Champions League group stage, and reached the last 8 of the 2011-12 UEFA Champions League after finishing top of its group and beating French Olympique Lyonnais in the Round of 16.\n\nThe Cyprus national rugby union team known as \"The Moufflons\" currently holds the record for most consecutive international wins, which is especially notable as the Cyprus Rugby Federation was only formed in 2006.\n\nTennis player Marcos Baghdatis was ranked 8th in the world, was a finalist at the Australian Open, and reached the Wimbledon semi-final, all in 2006. High jumper Kyriakos Ioannou achieved a jump of 2.35 m at the 11th IAAF World Championships in Athletics in Osaka, Japan, in 2007, winning the bronze medal. He has been ranked third in the world. In motorsports, Tio Ellinas is a successful race car driver, currently racing in the GP3 Series for Marussia Manor Motorsport. There is also mixed martial artist Costas Philippou, who competes in the Ultimate Fighting Championship promotion's middleweight division. Costas holds a 6–3 record in UFC bouts, and recently defeated \"The Monsoon\" Lorenz Larkin by a knockout in the first round.\n\nAlso notable for a Mediterranean island, the siblings Christopher and Sophia Papamichalopoulou qualified for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They were the only athletes who managed to qualify and thus represented Cyprus at the 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe country's first ever Olympic medal, a silver medal, was won by the sailor Pavlos Kontides, at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the Men's Laser class.\n\n\n\n\nGovernment\n\nTourism\n\nOfficial publications\n"}
{"id": "22034383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22034383", "title": "Dancing Star Foundation", "text": "Dancing Star Foundation\n\nThe Dancing Star Foundation is a U.S.-based non-profit organization engaged in environmental, cultural and animal welfare activities, including environmental education, global biodiversity conservation, and animal rights. It was founded in 1993.\n\nVia print and film, Dancing Star Foundation seeks to increase awareness of environmental issues ranging from biodiversity and extinction to non-violence and over-population. Examples are \"No Vacancy\", a book and documentary film combination which addresses the volatile issue of population stabilization in the U.S., China, and eight other countries; the book \"Sanctuary\", \"a 338-page compendium of full color photography showcasing twenty-four animal sanctuaries located throughout twenty different countries\"; and the documentary film \"Mad Cowboy\", the story of cattle rancher-turned-vegan and animal rights activist Howard Lyman.\n\nThe foundation operates an animal sanctuary in Central California for rescued animals. The mission of the facilities is to provide sanctuary \"for the benefit, solace, peace and quiet of the resident species\".\n\nThe foundation is involved in efforts to promote biodiversity conservation—mostly through \"documentation in book and film form of research being carried out by governments, other NGOs and individual ecologists\"—in various countries.\n\nDancing Star Foundation created and funded an alternative oncology program, the Sue Stiles Program in Integrative Oncology at the Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2001. The program is under the direction of oncologist Richard J. Pietras.\n\nMichael Tobias is president of the foundation. His academic resume includes a Ph.D. in History of Consciousness from UC Santa Cruz, an Assistant Professorship in Environmental Studies, and Adjunct Assistant Professor of English and the Humanities, Visiting Garrey Carruthers Chair of Honors at the University of New Mexico, Distinguished Visiting Professor and Regents Lecturer at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and an Associate Professorship at Cal State Northridge. He is \"the author of 37 books and writer/director/producer of over 100 films pertaining to environmental, cultural, social or scientific issues\".\n\nJane Gray Morrison is executive vice president of the foundation. An ecologist/filmmaker, Morrison produced the ten-hour Turner Broadcasting series \"Voice of the Planet\", which chronicled the history of life on Earth; the project \"involved filming for nearly two years in 25 countries\". Morrison is also responsible for the production of a trilogy of documentary films titled \"Mad Cowboy\", \"No Vacancy\", and \"Hotspots\", and has co-authored books on environmental issues.\n\nDon Cannon is vice president of finance and operations of the foundation. Cannon's background includes tenures with both A&M Records and Elektra Records, as well as Hanna Barbera and other television production companies. Prior to joining Dancing Star Foundation, he was a senior vice president at ICM Partners, a large talent management agency.\n\nIn early 2009, a small number of former employees alleged that the Cayucos animal sanctuary was euthanizing animals for economic reasons. A maintenance supervisor who made similar allegations claims he was dismissed due to speaking out, although the sanctuary says he was terminated for other reasons. Dancing Star denied the animal-care allegations, saying that they are \"contrary to our most deeply held beliefs\" and that the Foundation is \"unwavering in our commitment to compassion\". San Luis Obispo County Animal Services determined that the euthanized animals were \"either beyond treatment or had conditions for which euthanasia would be at least one of the considerations that could be responsibly made\". The general counsel of the Farm Sanctuary in New York State, who examined the Cayucos sanctuary following the allegations, said he was unable to confirm the process for selecting those who had been euthanized. But he noted, \"It's the best-funded place in the country for animals, and the staff appears to be caring.\"\n"}
{"id": "5595921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595921", "title": "Flags of Oceania", "text": "Flags of Oceania\n\nThis is a gallery of national flags of Oceania.\n"}
{"id": "12127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12127", "title": "Foreign relations of Greenland", "text": "Foreign relations of Greenland\n\nBeing part of the Kingdom of Denmark, the foreign relations of Greenland are handled in cooperation with the Danish government and Government of Greenland.\n\nUnlike Denmark, Greenland is no longer part of the European Union. However, Greenland has remained a full member of the Council of Europe and NATO.\n\nWith the Kingdom of Denmark having the responsibility for Greenland's international affairs, other countries do not have direct diplomatic representation in Greenland—their embassies or consulates in Denmark are responsible for their relations with Greenland and their citizens in Greenland. Greenland is represented internationally by the embassies and consulates of Denmark, although Greenland does directly participate in some Nordic organisations that provide membership for dependent territories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13432264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432264", "title": "Full spectral imaging", "text": "Full spectral imaging\n\nFull spectral imaging is a form of Imaging spectroscopy and is the successor to Hyperspectral imaging. Full Spectral Imaging was developed to improve the capabilities of Earth remote sensing (see also remote sensing). Hyperspectral imaging acquires data as many contiguous spectral bands. Full Spectral Imaging (FSI) acquires data as spectral curves. A significant advantage of FSI over Hyperspectral is a significant reduction in data rate and volume. FSI extracts and saves only the information that is in the raw data. The information is contained in the shape of the spectral curves. The rate at which data is produced by an FSI system is proportional to the amount of information in the scene/image.\n\nFull Spectral Imaging, along with Empirical reflectance retrieval and Autonomous Remote Sensing are the components of the New System for Remote Sensing. The New System for Remote Sensing could be the successor to the Landsat series of satellites of the Landsat program. The concepts mentioned above have been developed in collaboration with many experts, most of whom have little to nothing to do with traditional remote sensing. These concepts rely solely on currently available off-the-shelf technology, and on existing infrastructure.\n\nThe first discussion of Full Spectral Imaging was presented SPIE International Remote Sensing Conference in Barcelona in 2004 in the paper; \"Full spectral imaging: a revisited approach to remote sensing\". or .\n\nA web site for Full Spectral Imaging can be found at: http://fullspectralimaging.net/FSI.htm\n"}
{"id": "55729299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55729299", "title": "Gairidhara", "text": "Gairidhara\n\nGairidhara () is a residential area of Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal. It borders the Narayanhity Palace, Lazimpat and Baluwatar and is just 20 minutes away from what is known as the downtown of Kathmandu, Newroad and Ason.\n\nGairidhara is a local business hub hosting several national companies and organisations. The following organisations have their headquarters in Gairidhara:\n"}
{"id": "864325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864325", "title": "Gavdos", "text": "Gavdos\n\nGavdos (, ) is the southernmost Greek island, located to the south of its much larger neighbour, Crete, of which it is administratively a part, in the regional unit of Chania. It forms a community with surrounding islets and was part of the former Selino Province. The island is situated at the southern tip of Greece, thus making it the southernmost point of the entire European continent.\n\nGavdos has been known by a wide variety of names. For example, it appears in the biblical account of Paul's journey to Rome in Acts 27 as \"Clauda\" () or \"Cauda\" (). The island was also referred to as \"Cauda\" by Roman geographer Pomponius Mela, and as \"Gaudos\" by Pliny. Ptolemy called Gavdos \"Claudos\" (). The Venetians called it \"Gotzo\", perhaps in imitation of the Maltese island \"Gozo\". From the 17th to the 19th centuries, the island was known as \"Gondzo\". A Turkish name of Godzo was \"Bougadoz\".\n\nThe island is south of Chora Sfakion. The area of the municipality, which includes the small island Gavdopoula, is . The island is roughly triangular in shape. Its highest point is Mount Vardia, . The southeastern corner is a rocky peninsula with a natural arch carved by the elements, called Trypiti. A sculpture of an oversized chair sits on top of Trypiti.\n\nThere is an islet called Gavdopoula (Γαυδοπούλα, \"little Gavdos\") to the north west of Gavdos. Gavdos and Gavdopoula are covered with phrygana (φρύγανα), low-lying shrubs. Both are important stops for migrating birds. Local birds include the Eurasian scops owl and the European shag. Gavdos also has a variety of other vegetation, such as maquis as well as forests of pines and junipers.\n\nGavdos is the southernmost island in Greece and all of Europe, with a warm Mediterranean subtropical climate typical of the Greek islands (Csa for Koppen Classification), summers are constantly hot with daily temperatures reaching 32 ° C in August (extremes are occasional, sometimes it can reach 40 ° C) and extremely mild winters by European standards, February, the coldest month has an average temperature of 17 ° C. The Mediterranean Sea is an important thermal regulator that surrounds it island in all its directions, while maintaining the high temperature of the sea, especially in summer passing from 26 ° C. The mild climate is aided by hot winds blowing from the Sahara Desert. The countless mountains of the Balkans protect from the cold, siberian air, in addition to its island condition. As a result of the Subtropical High of the Azores precipitation is concentrated in winter, making summer dry with almost none used as \"beach time\". It is the sunniest place in Europe and with the highest number of radiation: between 1800 and 1900 kWh/m² (ideal for solar panels), valoers closer to North Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThere are only a small number of year-round residents of Gavdos and services for tourists are basic. , the total population of Gavdos was measured as 152 people. In reality, fewer than 50 people live permanently on the island. In the summer the total people on the island can reach over 3,500, most of whom are campers and tourists. The largest man-made harbour for ferries is Karave. The island's capital is Kastri. The southernmost populated village is Vatsiana, with a total permanent population of 31 people.\n\nGavdos has supported a permanent population since Neolithic times. However, the island currently has very few permanent residents.\n\nGavdos has been identified as a possible site of the mythical Ogygia where Kalypso held Odysseus prisoner. Archaeological evidence showed that the Roman empire was active on the island. During that time the flora of the island was overexploited and that started a process of erosion which has continued to this day.\n\nGavdos had approximately 8,000 inhabitants by 900 AD. During the Ottoman Empire's reign on the island, which lasted from 1665 until 1895, Gavdos was known as Gondzo. During this period the population decreased considerably to only 500 by 1882. A reference to Saracens on the island survives: the beach Sarakiniko (\"of the Saracens\").\n\nIn the 1930s the island was used as a place of exile of communists; more than 250 people were exiled including leading figures of the Greek movement, such as Markos Vafiadis. During World War II, allied forces evacuated some forces to Gavdos following the German victory in the battle of Crete.\n\nLater on, the general phase of urbanization that started in other parts of Greece in the 1960s took place in the 1950s on Gavdos. During that period the islanders exchanged their land on Gavdos with ex-Turkish land on Crete, which had now become exchangeable via the state. Upon settling in Crete they created a community known as Gavdiotika, which is part of the town of Paleochora.\n\nThere are many abandoned terraces on Gavdos where farmers used to grow crops on the hillsides. There still is some agriculture on Gavdos. During the summer, the population of the island swells to a few thousand because of tourists, although there are few facilities for tourists. There is one year-round cafe in Carave (\"Karabe\") on Gavdos run by Evangelina Tsigonakis. There is a modern non-functioning reproduction lighthouse tower on Gavdos which now serves as a cafe during the summer season; the complex also contains a museum on the history of the original lighthouse with several rooms of photos and antique equipment. Gavdos has an FM radio station, \"Gavdos FM 88.8\", which is also available online.\n\nFollowing years of isolation, in 1996 the island came to media prominence. In a NATO exercise Gavdos was the focal point of a confrontation between Greece and Turkey. Following that, Prime Minister Costas Simitis visited Gavdos and announced a five-year, €1.5 million plan for the island's development.\n\nIn 2001, Costis Stephanopoulos, the Greek President, inaugurated a telemedicine centre on Gavdos, an island which has not had a full-time doctor in recent memory. This effort, however, was marred as the island's infrastructure could not provide the necessary power required by the centre. For the purposes of the inauguration, generators were brought in, which were then removed. However, according to a 2008 BBC News report the island now features stable electrical power, and young medical graduates can serve for six months on Gavdos in lieu of compulsory military service. But visitors to Gavdos in June 2008 found that the power station was not functioning and that businesses were relying on gas generators operated for a few hours per night; locals stated that the power station worked initially, but no longer serves the entire island reliably.\n\nIn 2002, the island was in the news again, due to the arrests of members of the extremist Marxist group 17 November. The leader of this organization had been living openly for several years on Gavdos as a beekeeper.\n\nGavdos is featured in James Aldridge's 1944 novel \"The Sea Eagle\", which tells the story of the escape of a Greek partisan and two Australian soldiers after the Battle of Crete. The three join an expedition to liberate some Cretan fishermen from a Metaxas-era prison on the eastern end of the island. The attack on the cliffs of Khavro Spahti Bay is described in Chapters 24-28.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13387896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13387896", "title": "Geographic targeting", "text": "Geographic targeting\n\nGeographic targeting is a viable way for resource allocation, especially to alleviate poverty in a country. In this context, public expenditure and policy interventions can be deployed to reach the neediest people in the poorest areas.\n\nGeographical targeting for poverty alleviation employs a variety of techniques, such as database, and geographic information systems to construct poverty maps.\n"}
{"id": "47223068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47223068", "title": "Geology of Armenia", "text": "Geology of Armenia\n\nThe geology of Armenia was shaped by geological upheaval pushed up the Earth's crust to form the Armenian Plateau 25 million years ago. This created the complex topography of Armenia.\n\nThe Lesser Caucasus range extends through northern Armenia, runs southeast between Lake Sevan and Azerbaijan, then passes roughly along the Armenian-Azerbaijani border to Iran. Thus situated, the mountains make travel from north to south difficult.\n\nGeological turmoil continues in the form of devastating earthquakes. In December 1988, the second largest city in the republic, Gyumri (then called Leninakan), was heavily damaged by a massive quake that killed more than 25,000 people.\n\nAbout half of Armenia's area of approximately has an elevation of at least , and only 3% of the country lies below . The lowest points are in the valleys of the Araks River and the Debet River in the far north, which have elevations of , respectively. Elevations in the Lesser Caucasus vary between . To the southwest of the range is the Armenian Plateau, which slopes southwestward toward the Araks River on the Turkish border. The plateau is masked by intermediate mountain ranges and extinct volcanoes. The largest of these, Mount Aragats, high, is also the highest point in Armenia. Most of the population lives in the western and northwestern parts of the country, where the two major cities, Yerevan and Gyumri (which was called Aleksandropol' during the tsarist period), are located.\n\nThe valleys of the Debet River and Akstafa River as they pass through mountain areas form the chief routes into Armenia from the north. Lake Sevan is by far the largest lake at across at its widest point and long. It lies above sea level on the plateau.\n\nArmenia's terrain is most rugged in the extreme southeast, which is drained by the Bargushat River and most moderate in the Araks River valley to the extreme southwest. Most of Armenia is drained by the Araks or its tributary, the Hrazdan, which flow from Lake Sevan. The Araks forms most of Armenia's border with Turkey and Iran while the Zangezur Mountains form the border between Armenia's southern province of Syunik and Azerbaijan's adjacent Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic.\nVolcanic mountains in Armenia include Mount Ara, Mount Aragats, Azhdahak, Ghegam Ridge, Mount of Armenia. Porak. Arpi Gorge and Garni Gorge contain columnar igneous rocks (Columnar jointing).\n\nMines in Armenia include Kajaran Mine and Teghut Mine. Both are open pit mines for copper and molybdenum.\n\n"}
{"id": "45266117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45266117", "title": "Graeme Hugo", "text": "Graeme Hugo\n\nGraeme John Hugo (5 December 1946 – 20 January 2015) was an Australian demographer, academic, and geographer. Hugo, a professor of geography at University of Adelaide, was considered one of Australia's leading demographers. He served as the director of the Australian Migration and Population Research Centre at the University of Adelaide. Some of his most recent studies focused on discrimination against job-seekers from non-English speaking families and backgrounds. He was elected a fellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia in 1987. In 2012, Hugo was honoured as an Officer of the Order of Australia for his work in population research. \n\nGraeme Hugo died from a short illness on 20 January 2015, at the age of 68.\n\n"}
{"id": "13336880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13336880", "title": "Gulf of the Farallones", "text": "Gulf of the Farallones\n\nGulf of the Farallones is a gulf of the Pacific Ocean off the northern California coast. It extends westward from the opening of the San Francisco Bay and Drakes Bay to the Farallon Islands. Most of the gulf lies in Gulf of the Farallones National Marine Sanctuary, which protects about .\n\nThe gulf is home to major shipping lines to the Port of San Francisco, Port of Oakland, and Port of Richmond. The gulf has also historically been used as a dumping ground for various types of waste, including dredging sediment, industrial waste, sunk vessels, and barrels of low-level nuclear waste. Around 47,800 barrels of nuclear waste were dumped between 1946 and 1970; their location was largely unknown until mapping and monitoring efforts in the 1990s.\n\n\"Farallones\" comes from the Spanish \"farallón\" meaning sea cliff and is a reference to the islands. Historical names for the gulf include Bahia De Puerto De San Francisco, Ensenada De Los Farallones, and La Bahia De Los Pinos.\n\n"}
{"id": "17848915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17848915", "title": "Index of Northern Mariana Islands-related articles", "text": "Index of Northern Mariana Islands-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of articles related to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4725866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725866", "title": "Index of Pakistan-related articles", "text": "Index of Pakistan-related articles\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Pakistan. Names of people are alphabetized by first name.\n\n1935 Quetta earthquake - 1945 Balochistan earthquake - 1947 in Pakistan - 1948 in Pakistan - 1949 in Pakistan - 1950 in Pakistan - 1951 in Pakistan - 1952 in Pakistan - 1953 in Pakistan - 1954 in Pakistan - 1955 in Pakistan - 1956 in Pakistan - 1957 in Pakistan - 1958 in Pakistan - 1959 in Pakistan - 1960 in Pakistan - 1961 in Pakistan - 1962 in Pakistan - 1963 in Pakistan - 1964 in Pakistan - 1965 in Pakistan - 1966 in Pakistan - 1967 in Pakistan - 1968 in Pakistan - 1969 in Pakistan - 1970 in Pakistan - 1971 in Pakistan - 1972 in Pakistan - 1973 in Pakistan - 1974 in Pakistan - 1974 Hunza earthquake - 1975 in Pakistan - 1976 in Pakistan - 1977 in Pakistan - 1978 in Pakistan - 1979 in Pakistan - 1980 in Pakistan - 1981 in Pakistan - 1982 in Pakistan - 1983 in Pakistan - 1984 in Pakistan - 1985 in Pakistan - 1986 in Pakistan - 1987 in Pakistan - 1988 in Pakistan - 1989 in Pakistan - 1990 in Pakistan - 1991 in Pakistan - 1992 in Pakistan - 1993 in Pakistan - 1994 in Pakistan - 1995 in Pakistan - 1996 in Pakistan - 1997 in Pakistan - 1998 in Pakistan - 1999 in Pakistan - 2000 in Pakistan - 2001 in Pakistan - 2002 in Pakistan - 2003 in Pakistan - 2004 in Pakistan - 2005 in Pakistan - 2005 Kashmir earthquake - 2006 in Pakistan- 2007 in Pakistan - 2008 in Pakistan - 2009 in Pakistan - 2010 in Pakistan - 2011 in Pakistan - 2012 in Pakistan - 2013 in Pakistan - 2014 in Pakistan - 2015 in Pakistan - 2016 in Pakistan - 2017 in Pakistan - 2018 in Pakistan - 420 (Penal Code)\n\nA.K. Fazlul Huq - Aatif - Abasin -Abbasi - Abbasi Shaheed - Abbasi Shaheed Hospital - Abbottabad\nAbbottabad District - Abbottabad Public School - Abdul Hamid Lahori - Abdul Qadeer Khan - Abdul Rab Nishtar - Abdullah Haroon - Abdullah Shah Ghazi - Abdus Salam - Abdul Sattar Edhi - Abul Ala Maududi - Abu Zar Ghaffari - Achakzai - Aero Asia International - Afridi - Afsharid dynasty - Aga Khan IV - Aga Khan University -  Aga Khan University Hospital - Agalassoi - Agra Taj Colony - Ahmad Shah - Ahmadzai (Wazir clan) - Air Bases of Pakistan Air Force - Air Weapons Complex - Air University (Pakistan) - Airblue - Airblue destinations - Airlines of Pakistan - Aisha Manzil - Ajmera - Akbar - Akhtar Colony - Akhtar Hameed Khan - Alauddin Khalji - Al Akhbar (Pakistan) - Alavi Bohra - Al-Falah Society - Aligarh - Al Khidmat foundation - Allai - Allama Binori Town - Allama Iqbal - Allama Iqbal International Airport - Allama Iqbal Open University - Allama Mashriqi - Alptigin - Altaf Hussain - Amb Jogi - Aman Dusehri - Amir Abdullah Khan Rokhri - Amir Taheri - Amri - Amri Culture - Anarkali - Ancholi - Ancient India and Central Asia - Ancient Indus Valley units of measurement - Anglo-Sikh wars - Anwar Ratul - Applied Economics Research Centre - Arachosia - Arain - Arbab Raheem - Arghun Dynasty - Archaeology in Pakistan - Army Medical College - Artemidoros - Aryan Invasion Theory - Ashvakas - Asif Ali Zardari - Askari Aviation - Asma Jahangir - Ashoka -  Aspavarman - Astola - Astola Island - Astor Wildlife Sanctuary - Ataullah Mengal - Atif - Attock District - Auditor General of Pakistan - Aurangzeb - Ausaf - Awam - Awami Colony - Awan (Pakistan) - Awaran District - Ayesha Omar - Ayub Khan - Ayubia -  Asia Bibi blasphemy case Ayubia National Park - Azad Jammu and Kashmir - Azam Basti - Azad Kashmir Regiment - Aziz Ahmed - Aziz Bhatti - Aziz Bhatti Park - Azizabad - Ahmed Pur Lamma\n\nBa'ab-ul-Islam - Baba Bhit - Babur - Baburnama - Bactria - Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex - Badakhshan - Badin - Badshahi Mosque - Baghdadi - Baghwani - Bagram - Bahadurabad - Bahawalpur - Bahawalpur Airport - Bahlul Khan Lodhi - Bahria University - Baig - Baig Origins - Bainganpali - Bajor Pakistan - Bakhuwala - Balakot - Balawaristan - Baldia - Baldia Colony - Baldia Town - Balkh - Baloch - Baloch (tribe) - Baloch Goth - Balochistan (region) - Balochistan (Pakistan) - Baloch Regiment - Balochistan University of Engineering and Technology - Balochistan University of Information Technology and Management Sciences - Baltistan - Baltistan Wildlife Sanctuary - Banded krait - Bandhani Colony - Banganpali - Bangladesh Liberation War - Bannu - Bannu Airport - Baqai Medical University - Barkhan District - Bank AL Habib - Batagram - Batala Colony - Battle of the Hydaspes River - Battles of the Second Anglo-Afghan War - Bayazid Bustami - Beas River - Beaconhouse School System - Beaconhouse School System (Pakistan) - Benazir Bhutto International Airport - Begum - Behrain - Bela - Bela Pakistan - Benazir Bhutto - Bhakkar - Bhalwal - Bhit - Bhit Shah - Bhit Shah Island - Bhoja Air - Bhurban - Bhurgari - Bhutta Village - Bhutto - Bhutto (tribe) - Bhutto Nagar - Bibi Mubarika Yusufzay - Bihar Colony - Bilal Colony - Bin Qasim - Bin Qasim Town - List of birds of Pakistan - Bizenjo - Black-rumped flameback - Bolan District - Bolan Pass - British heritage of Pakistan - British Raj - Brown Sahib - Bucephalus - Buddhist architecture - Bugti - Buner District - Burmee Colony - Butgram -\n\nCabinet Committee on National Security - Cadet College Hasan Abdal - Cadet College Petaro - Cadet College Kallar Kahar - Cantonments (Pakistan) - Cape Monze - Capital Dynamos - *Catholic TV - Catla - Cattle Colony - Caucasus Indicus - Central Asia - Central Jacob Lines - Central Superior Services of Pakistan - Chador - Chagai District - Chakdara - Chakra Goth - Chakwal - Chamkanni - Chandhar - Chandio - Chandragupta I - Chandragupta Maurya - Chanesar Goth - Chanhudaro - Chappargram - Charra Pani - Chashma - Chagai-I - Chagai-II - Chashma (Pakistan) - Chashma Airport - Chashma Barrage (Ramsar Site) - Chashma Right Bank Irrigation Project - Chaudhari Khaliquzzaman - Chaudhry - Chauhan - Chaunsa - Chenab Nagar - Chenab River - Chief Minister - Chilas - Chilas Airport - Child marriage - Chiniot - Chisti Nagar - Chitral - Chitral Airport - Chitral Gol National Park - Cholistan Desert - Cholistan Wildlife Sanctuary - Chronology of Pakistan's rocket tests - Chaudhary Mohammad Akbar Ibrahim - Choudhary Rahmat Ali - Christianity in Pakistan - City District Government - Civic Centre Karachi - Civil Aviation Authority - Civil Aviation Training Institute - Civil Hospital - Civil Line - Clifton Beach, Karachi - Clifton, Karachi - College of Aeronautical Engineering - College of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering - College of Flying Training - College of Physicians & Surgeons Pakistan - Command and Staff College - Commercial Area - Common worm snake - Constitution of Pakistan - Cuisine of Pakistan - Culture of Pakistan - Cyrus the Great -\n\nDadu, Pakistan - Dadu District - Dahi - Dahir - Daily Awami Awaz - Daily Koshish - Dak Khana - Dalbandin - Dalbandin Airport - Dar (tribe) - Dara Shikoh - Dards - Dari - Darsano Chana - Daryaabad - Darul Sukun - Dashtiari River - Data Nagar - Daulat Khel - Daulatzai - Davi - Dawood Chowrangi - Dawoodi Bohra - De Montmorency College of Dentistry - Debal - Defence Housing Authority, Karachi - Defence Housing Society - Defence Housing Authority, Karachi - Deepak Perwani - Defence Science and Technology Organization - Delhi Mercantile Society - Delhi Sultanate - Demetrius I of Bactria - Demographics of Pakistan - Deosai National Park - Department of Plant Protection (Pakistan) - Dera Bugti - Dera Bugti District - Dera Ghazi Khan - Dera Ghazi Khan District - Dera Ismail Khan - Dera Ismail Khan Airport - Dharmaraksita - Dir District - Dir, Pakistan - Direct Action Day - Directorate General of Civil Defence (Pakistan) - Directorate General of Immigration & Passports - District Assemblies - Districts of Pakistan - Divisions of Pakistan - Dherai - Domki - Dow University of Health Sciences - Drangiana - Durrani - Durrani Empire -\n\nEast Pakistan - Economic Cooperation Organization - Economic Coordination Committee - Economy of Karachi - Economy of Pakistan - Edhi Foundation - Edicts of Ashoka -Elamo-Dravidian - Elections in Pakistan - Ethnic Groups of South Asia - Empress Market - Endemic birds of South Asia - Essa Nagri - Ethnic groups in Pakistan - Eucratides - Euthydemus I - Evacuee Trust Property Board\n\nFaisal Mosque - Faisal Colony - Faisalabad - Faisalabad International Airport - Fajri Kalan - Farooq Leghari - Farooq-e-Azam - Farooqi - Fateh Jang - Fatima Jinnah - Fatima Jinnah Medical College - Fazli - Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pakistan - Firozpur district - Firdous Colony - First Anglo-Afghan War - First Battle of Swat - Second Battle of Swat - First Battle of Tarain - Fizagat - Flag of Pakistan - Frere Hall - Friday Times - Frontier Force Regiment - Frontier Medical College - Frontier Falcons - Frontier Post - Foundation University Medical College\n\nGabo Pat - Gabral - Gadani - Gadani Beach - Gadap - Gadap Colony - Gadap Town - Gaghar - Gakhars - Galyat - Gambila River - Gandapur - Gandhara - Ganeriwala - Garden East - Garden Karachi - Gardezi - Gazdarabad - Gazette of Pakistan - Geo TV - Ghakkar - Gharibabad - Ghauri - Ghazi Brohi Goth - Ghaziabad Karachi - Ghaznavi (missile) - Ghaznavi Force - Ghaznavid Empire - Ghilzai - Ghiyath al-Din Tughluq - Ghotki - Ghor Province - Ghulam Ali - Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology - Ghulam Murtaza (physicist) - Ghulam Muhammad Khan Mahar - Ghulam Muhammad Mahar Medical College Sukkur - Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi - Ghulam Mustafa Khar - Ghurids - Gilani - Gilgit - Gilgit Airport - Gilgit River - Gillani Railway Station - Godhra Karachi - Gomal River - Gomal University - Gomal Zam Dam Project - Gondophares - Good News TV - Goth dulla lakhan atal - Government College University, Faisalabad - Government College University, Lahore - Government of Pakistan -\nGovernment of Sindh - Greco-Bactrian Kingdom - Greco-Buddhism - Greco-Buddhist art - Guemar - Gujjar Nallah - Gujo - Gujrat city - Gujrat District - Gujro - Gulbahar - Gulberg (Karachi) - Gulberg (Lahore) - Gulberg Town - Gulistan - Gulistan-e-Jauhar - Gulshan - Gulshan Town - Gulshan-e-Ghazi - Gulshan-e-Hadeed - Gulshan-e-Iqbal - Gulshan-e-Iqbal I - Gulshan-e-Iqbal II - Gulzar Colony - Gulzar-e-Hijri - Gumal Pass - Gumbat - Gupta Dynasty - Gupta Empire - Gwadar - Gwadar Bay - Gwadar District - Gwadar International Airport - Gwadar Port\n\nHabib Bank - Habib Bank Plaza - Hajvairy Airlines - Hajvery University, Lahore - Hakim Ahsan - Hakim Said - Hala Sindh - Haleji Lake - Hamdard University - Hanafi - Hanifabad - Harappa - Haripur - Haripur District - Harnai - Haryana Colony - Hasan Abdal - Hasni - Hasrat Mohani - Hasrat Mohani Colony - Hawke's Bay Beach - Hawke's Bay (Karachi) - Hawkesbay - Hazara - Hazara Division - Hazara Pakistan - Hazara-i-Karlugh - Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park - Heavy Industries Taxila - Heliocles - Hephthalite - Heraios - Hijab - Hilal e Ahmar - Hindu Kush - Hinduism in Pakistan - Hingol mud volcano - Hingol National Park - History of Balochistan - History of Jammu and Kashmir - History of Pakistan - History of Sindh - History of South Asia - History of the Indo-Greek Kingdom - History of the Jews in Pakistan - History of the Kashmir conflict - History of the Punjab - History of Urdu - Holy Family Hospital - Honor killing - Hub, Balochistan - Hub Dam - Hub Dam Wildlife Sanctuary - Hub Tehsil - Hub River - Human Rights Commission of Pakistan - Human rights in Pakistan - Humayun - Hunas - Hundred Quarters - Hungol River - Hunza - Hurs - Hussanara - Hyderabad Airport - Hyderabad Colony - Hyderabad District, Pakistan - Hyderabad, Pakistan - Hyderi\n\nIbrahim Hyderi - Ibrahim Ismail Chundrigar - Ibrahim Ismail Chundrigar Road - Ibrahim Lodhi - Ichthyophagoi - Imran Khan - Indian Muslim - Indian rebellion of 1857 - Indian subcontinent - Indian subcontinent earthquakes list - Indica - Indo-Aryan migration - Indo-Iranians - Indology - Indo-Aryans - Indo-European languages - Indo-Hephthalites - Indo-Pakistani War of 1947 - Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 - Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 - Indo-Parthians - Indo-Parthian Kingdom - Indo-Scythians - Indo-Sassanian - Indo-Scythians - Indus Highway - Indus River - Indus Valley Civilization - Indus Valley School of Art and Architecture - Institute for Environmental Sciences and Engineering - Institute of Management Sciences - Institute of Space Technology - Inter-Services Intelligence - Intellectual Property Organisation of Pakistan - International Nathiagali Summer College on Physics - International Centre for Theoretical Physics - Islam - Islam Nagar - Islam Pir - Islam Pura - Islamabad - Islamabad Capital Territory - Islamabad International Airport - Islamgarh - Islami Jamiat Talaba Pakistan - Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba - Islami Jamiat-e-Tulba - Islamia College - Islamia College Lahore - Islamia Science College - Islamic conquest of the Indian subcontinent - Islamic empires in India - Islamic republic - Islamistan - Ismail of Ghaznavi - Ismail of Ghazni - Ismaili - Irreligion in Pakistan - Ijaz ul Hassan\n\nJacobabad - Jadoon - Jafar-e-Tayyar - Jaffarabad District - Jahanabad, Pakistan - Jahangir - Jahangiri - Jahanian - Jaish-e-Mohammed - Jalal ud din Firuz Khalji - Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan - Jamaati - Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen - Jamali - Jamali Colony - Jamhoori Wattan Party - Jammu and Kashmir - Jamrud - Jamshed - Jamshed (neighborhood) - Jamshed Quarters - Jamshed Town - Jamshoro - Jasarat - Jatoi - Javed Ahmed Ghamidi - Jehangir Karamat - Jehangir Kothari Parade - JF-17 Thunder - Jhal Magsi District - Jhelum - Jhelum (City) - Jhelum River - Jihad - Jinnah International Airport - Jiwani - Jiwani Airport - Joyo - Joyo (tribe) - Jundallah - Jogi - Junejo - Jut Line\n\nKabul River - Kachhi Canal Project - Kafi - Kaghan - Khan Research Laboratories - Kaka Khel - Kakakhel (tribe) - Kakul - Kala Board - Kalabagh - Kalabagh Dam - Kalam Valley - Kalat - Kalat District - Kalat (princely state) - Kalhora - Kalhora Dynasty - Kalri Lake - Kamboh - Kamboj - Kamboja - Kambojas - Kamboj in Muslim and British Era -Kamran Mirza - Kandahar Province - Kanishka - Kanishka II - Kanishka III - Kanyakumari district - Karachi - Karachi Cotton Exchange - Karachi Development Authority - Karachi Municipal Corporation - Karachi Nuclear Power Complex - Karachi Port Trust - Karachi Towns - Karachi Zoological Gardens - Kargil conflict - Karimabad - Karimabad (Hunza) - Karimabad (Karachi) - Karlugh - Karnal Sher Khan - Karo kari - KaroKari - Karoonjhar Dam - Karoonjhar Mountains - Kashmir - Kashmir (disambiguation) - Kashmir Terrorism Movement - Kashmore District - Kech District - Kehkashan Karachi - Kekaya - Kendrapara District - Kent (mango) - Khabrain - Khagan - Khairpur - Khalid Shaikh Mohammed - Khalifatul Masih - Khaliq Deena Hall - Khamiso Goth - Khan - Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan - Khan Wali Khan - Khanate - Khandu Goth - Khanewal - Khanpur - Kharadar - Kharan District - Kharoti - Kharosthi - Khattak - Khawaja Ajmeer Colony - Khawaja Nazimuddin - Khaybar - Khel - Khetran - Khalji dynasty - Khoja - Khojki - Khokara Par - Khokhar - Khokhrapar - Khudai Khidmatgar - Khulozai - Khunjerab National Park - Khurshid Ahmad - Khushab District - Khuzdar - Khuzdar Airport - Khuzdar District - Khyber - Khyber agency - Khyber Mail - Khyber Pakhtunkhwa - Khyber Pass - Kiamari - Kiamari Town - Kianian dynasty - Kiett - Killa Saifullah - King Edward Medical University - King Philoxenus - Kinjhar Lake - Kirana Bar - Kirana Hills - Kirthar Mountains - Kirani - Kirthar National Park - Kohat - Kohat District - Kohlu - Kohlu District - Korangi - Korangi Sector 33 - Korangi Town - Kori Creek - Kot Bala - Kot Diji - KSE 100 Index - Kujula Kadphises - Kulli culture - Kunar - Kundar River - Kunhar River - Kurram - Kurram Agency - Kurram River - Kushan Empire - Kusulaka Patika\n\nLadli Begum - Lady Aitchison Hospital - Lady Reading Hospital - Lady Willingdon Hospital - Lahore - Lahore Fort - Lahore General Hospital - Lahore Museum - Lahore Resolution - Lahore University of Management Sciences - Lakhueen-jo-daro - Lal Suhanra National Park - Lalak Jan Shaheed - Lalla-Rookh - Landhi - Landhi Colony - Landhi Town - Landi Kotal - Langra - Lari (tribe) - Larkana - Larkano - Lasbela District - Latifabad - Liaqat Baloch - Liaquat Ali Khan - Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences - Liaquatabad - Liaquatabad Town - Line of Succession to President of Pakistan - List of aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force - List of airports in Pakistan - List of Banks in Pakistan - - - - List of birds of South Asia - List of birds of South Asia - List of cable operators in Pakistan - List of Chief Ministers in Pakistan - List of cities in Balochistan, Pakistan - List of cities in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan - List of cities in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan - List of cities in Pakistan - List of cities in Punjab, Pakistan - List of cities in Sindh, Pakistan - List of dialling codes in Pakistan - List of earthquakes in Pakistan - List of federal agencies of Pakistan - List of educational institutions in Karachi - List of Governors of Pakistan - List of Gurdwaras in Pakistan - List of hill stations of Pakistan - List of hospitals in Pakistan - List of lakes in Pakistan - List of Magazines in Pakistan - List of Mountains in Pakistan - List of newspapers in Pakistan - List of Pakistan Natural Disasters - List of Pakistani spices - List of Pakistan Test cricket umpires - List of Pakistani actors - List of Pakistani actresses - List of Pakistani aircraft - List of Pakistani authors - List of Pakistani companies - List of Pakistani condiments - List of Pakistani family names - List of Pakistani films - List of Pakistani flags - List of Pakistani models - List of Pakistani musicians - List of Pakistani radio channels - List of television stations in Pakistan - List of Pakistanis - List of people on stamps of Pakistan - List of political parties in Pakistan - List of Postal Codes of Pakistan - List of Punjabi language poets - List of Punjabi television channels - List of Pushtu language poets - List of Ramsar Wetland sites in Pakistan - List of reptiles of South Asia - List of research institutes in Pakistan - List of rivers in Pakistan - List of schools in Pakistan - List of Students federations of Pakistan - List of telecommunications companies of Pakistan - List of terrorist incidents in Pakistan - List of universities in Karachi - List of universities in Pakistan -List of universities in Pakistan - List of Urdu Language television channels - List of volcanoes in Pakistan - List of Wildlife sanctuaries in Pakistan - List of Wildlife sanctuaries in Pakistan - Lodhi - Lodhi dynasty - Lohana - Lollywood - Loralai District - Lothal - Lower Dir - Lower Dir District - Lyari - Lyari Development Authority - Lyari Expressway - Lyari River - Lyari Town - List of Cities of Punjab, Pakistan by Area\n\nMadina Colony - Madyan, Pakistan - Mahdavia - Mahmud Ghaznavi - Mahmud Khel - Mahmud of Ghazni - Mahmudabad - Mahsud Khel - Majlis-e-Shoora - Major General Akhtar Hussain Malik - Major Rivers of Pakistan - Makran - Makran Coastal Highway - Makran District - Malakand Agency - Malakand District - Malakand Division - Malakand Pass - Malamjaba - Malik - Aamer Malik (Quetta cricketer) - Malir - Malir Development Authority - Malir River - Malir Town - Mamund - Manchar - Manchar Lake - Mandi Bahauddin - Mandokhel - Manghopir - Mangla - Mangopir - Mankiala - Manora - Manora Island - Mansehra District - Mansura (Brahmanabad) - Mansura Jamaat - Manzoor Colony - Manzoor Hussain - Mardan - Margalla Hills National Park - Marghuzar - Maripur - Marri - Marwand - Marwat - Mashriq - Mashwanis - Masjid e Tooba - Mastung District - Maulana Muhammad Ali - Maurya dynasty - Mauryan Empire - Maymarabad - Mayo Hospital - Mazari - MBT 2000 - MCB Tower - Megasthenes - Mehdi Hassan - Mehmed of Ghaznavid - Mehran University of Engineering and Technology - Mehrgarh - Mehri - Meluhha - Memon - Memon (tribe) - Mengal - Merewether Memorial Tower - Metroville Colony - Mian - Mian Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif - Mian Tufail Mohammad - Miandam - Mianwali - Mianwali District - Middle Indo-Aryan - Military College of Engineering - Military College of Signals - Military College of Signals - Military history of Pakistan - Millat Nagar - Mir (title) - Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo - Mirani Dam - Miranshah - Mirpurkhas - Mirza - Mirza Ahmad Ispahani - Mirza Aslam Beg - Missan Mithadar - Model Colony - Mohamedzai - Mohammad Ali Jinnah - Mohammad Ali Jinnah Road - Mohammad Nagar - Mohammed Shah - Mohatta Palace - Mohenjo-daro - Mohenjodaro - Mohi-ud-Din Islamic University - Moinabad - Mominabad - Moria Khan Goth - Motorways of Pakistan - Movement for the Restoration of Democracy - Mufti Mehmood - Mughal Empire - Muhajirs - Muhajir Camp - Muhammad Akram - Muhammad Ali Jinnah - Muhammad Ali Jinnah University - Muhammad bin Qasim - Muhammad Ghori - Muhammad Khan Junejo - Muhammad of Ghor - Muhammad Sarwar - Muhammad Taqi Usmani - Muhammad Zafrulla Khan - Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq - Muhammadwala - Mujaddid - Mujahid Colony - Mujahidabad - Mulri Hills - Multan - Multan International Airport - Muneeza Shamsie - Murad Memon Goth - Murid - Murree - Murshid - Musa Khan - Musakhel District - Music of Punjab - Music of South Asia - Muslim chronicles for Indian history - Muslim Commercial Bank - Muslim League - Muslim Mujahid Colony - Muslim Rajputs - Muslimabad - Mustaali - Mustafa Taj Colony - Mustufa Colony - Muttahida Qaumi Movement - Muzaffarabad - Muzaffargarh\n\nNadir Shah - Nahan - Nai Abadi - Namal College - Namal Dam - Nanda dynasty - Nangarhar - Nagarparkar - Naran Valley - Naseerabad - Nasir Colony - Naseerabad District - Naseerabad Division - Naseerabad - Naseerabad - Natha Khan Goth - Nathiagali - The Nation (Pakistani newspaper) - National Academy of Performing Arts - National Assembly of Pakistan - National Centre for Physics - National College Of Arts, Lahore - National Command Authority - National Counter Terrorism Authority - National Development Complex - National Electric Power Regulatory Authority - National Engineering and Scientific Commission - National Engineering Services Pakistan - National Highway Authority - National Highways of Pakistan - National Parks of Pakistan - National symbols of Pakistan - National Institute of Electronics - National Textile University - National University of Modern Languages, Pakistan. - National University of Sciences and Technology - NUST Business School - NUST School of Civil and Environmental Engineering - NUST School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science - NUST School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering - Naukundi - Naushahro Feroze - Nawab - Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti - Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri - Nawab of Kalabagh - Nawabad - Nawabshah - Nawabshah Airport - Nawai Watan - Nawa-i-Waqt - Nawaz Sharif - Nazimabad - NED University of Engineering and Technology - Neeli Bar - Neelum - Neelum (mango) - Nerian Sharif - New Karachi - New Karachi Town - Neza e Sultan - NFC award - Niazi - Nikah - Nilore - Nishan-E-Haider - Nishan-E-Haider - Nishtar Medical College - Nishtar Park - Nizari - Noor Jehan - Noorzai - North Asia - North Nazimabad - North Nazimabad Town - North Waziristan - Gilgit Baltistan, Pakistan - Northern Black Polished Ware - Northern Cavaliers - Noshki - Northern Light Infantry - Nothazai - Nur Jehan - Nur Khan - Nuristan - Nushki - Nusrat Bhutto - Nuristan - Nushki - Nusrat Bhutto - Muhammad Zaman\n\nOngar - Operation Black Thunderstorm - Operation Clean Up - Operation Cyclone - Operation Fair Play - Operation Gibraltar - Operation Janbaz - Operation Khyber-1 - Operation Madad - Operation Rah-e-Nijat - Operation Rising Sun - Operation Searchlight - Operation Sirat-e-Mustaqeem - Operation Tupac - Operation Umeed-e-Nuh - Operation Zalzala - Operation Zarb-e-Azb - Orakzai - Orakzai Agency - Orangi - Orangi Pilot Project - Orangi Town - Origins of the name Afghan - Ormara - Oxus -\n\nPind rahim shah - Padshah Nama - Pahar Ganj (Karachi) - Paisa - Pakpattan - Pak Sadat Colony - Pakhtunkhwa - Pakhtun-khwa Milli Awami Party - Pakistan - Pakistan Air Force - Pakistan Air Force Academy - PAF Air War College - Pakistan and weapons of mass destruction - Pakistan Armed Forces - Pakistan Army - Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission - Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority - Pakistan Coast Guard - Pakistan Council for Architects and Town Planners - Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research - Pakistan Cricket Board - Pakistan Customs - Pakistan Development Forum - Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences - Pakistan Institute of Fashion and Design - Pakistan Institute of National Affairs - Pakistan Institute for Parliamentary Services - Pakistan International Airlines - Pakistan International Airlines destinations - Pakistanis - Pakistan Marine Academy - Pakistan Medical and Dental Council - Pakistan Medical Research Council - Pakistan Military Academy - Pakistan Movement - Pakistan Muslim League (Q) - Pakistan National Command Authority - Pakistan Navy - Pakistan Navy Engineering College - Pakistan Navy War College - Pakistan National Accreditation Council - Paramilitary forces of Pakistan - Pakistan Peoples Party - Pakistan Peoples Party (Sherpao) - Paramilitary forces of Pakistan - Pakistan Rangers - Pakistan Railways - Pakistan Resolution - Pakistan Science Foundation - Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee - Pakistan Social Democratic Party - Pakistan Standard Time - Pakistan Standards and Quality Control Authority - Pakistan and state-sponsored terrorism - Pakistan Steel Mills - Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf - Pakistan Telecommunication Authority - Pakistan Telecommunication Company - Pakistan Test cricket umpires - Pakistani literature - Pakistani music journalism - Pakistani name - Pakistani national cricket captains - Pakpattan - Pakpattan District - Paktia - Paktika - Palas (Kohistan) - Palijo - Panchkora Valley of Dir - Pancika - Panegyric - Panhwar - Paniala - Pāṇini - Panjgur District - Panjkora - Panjnad River - Panmah Glacier - Panmah Muztagh - Pantaleon - Paposh Nagar - Parachinar - Parachinar Airport - Paristan - Paropamisade - Parthia - Parthians - Pakistani pickle -Pasban- Pasban e Islam - Pashto language - Pashtun people - Pashtunistan - Pasni - Pasni City - Pasrur - Passu - PATA - Pathankot - Patras Bokhari - Patriata - Peacock Throne - Pearl Air - PECHS - PECHS-II - Pehlwan Goth - Penal Code of Pakistan - Pendik - Peri - Persian and Urdu - Persian Empire - Pervez Musharraf - Peshawar - Peshawar District - Peshawar International Airport - Petaro - Peukolaos - Pia - Pind Dadan Khan (tehsil) - Pind Ranjha - Pir (Sufism) - Pir Ilahi Buksh Colony - Pir Pagaro - Pir Shah Jurio - Pir Sohawa - Piracha - Pirmahal - Pirpiai - Pishin district - Pishin Valley - Pishin, Pakistan - Pllarina - Plutarch - Politics of Pakistan - Popalzai - Port Qasim - Porus - Pothohar - Prajna (Buddhist monk) - Prakrit - President of Pakistan - Presumptive Tax Regime - Pride of Performance - Prithviraj III - Progressive Dawoodi Bohra - Provincially Administered Tribal Areas - Punjab (British India) - Punjab (Pakistan) - Punjab Forensic Science Agency - Punjab Regiment - Punjab region - Punjab Town - Punjabi people - Punjkot - Pushkalavati\n\nQaidabad - Qalandar (clan) - Qalandar (title) - Qalat (Pakistan) - Qalat (District) - Qambar District - Qanungoh - Qasida - Qasimabad - Qaumi Tarana - Qayyum Stadium - Qazi Hussain Ahmad - Qilla Abdullah - Qilla Abdullah District - Qilla Saifullah - Qilla Saifullah District - Quaid-e-Azam - Quaid-e-Azam Mausoleum - Quaid-i-Azam House - Quaid-I-Azam Stadium - Quaid-i-Azam University - Quetta - Quetta District - Quetta International Airport - Quraishi - Qutb-ud-din Aybak\n\nRahimuddin Khan - Rajesh Ramesh - Ramkot Fort - Rann of Kachchh - Rawalpindi - Rawalakot - Rashid Minhas - Ranjit Singh - Rehman Automobile and Works - Religion in Pakistan - Revenue stamps of Pakistan - Roman Catholic Church\n\nSagala - Samma (tribe) - Syed Sajjad Ali Shah - Sandal Bar - Sanghar - Sassanid Empire - Sialkot - Sind Regiment - Secularism in Pakistan - Seleucus I Nicator - Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan - Shahbandar - Shah Jahan - Shah Jiwana - Shalimar Gardens (Lahore) - Shan-e-Punjab - Sheikhan - Shikarpur, Pakistan - Siege of Lal Masjid - Sillanwali - Silk Road - Sindh - Sindh Qalanders - Sindhri Tharparkar - Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission - SUPARCO Satellite Ground Station - Space programme 2040 - Special Services Group - Special Services Group Navy - Special Services Wing - Strabo - State Life Insurance Corporation of Pakistan - Strato II - Soan Culture - Soviet–Afghan War - South Asia - Subdivisions of Pakistan - SUDHAAR - Sukkur - Supreme Court of Pakistan - Sutlej - Scythians - Salim Khan Dherai - Swat valley - Swat (princely state) - Swat River\n\nTahir-ul-Qadri - Taj Bibi - Tando Adam Khan - Taluka - Taxila - Telecom Grid Pakistan - Tharparkar - Thatta - The Citizens Foundation - Theodamas - Thari Mirwah - Tufail Mohammad - Tando Allahyar - The Centaurus\n\nUmerkot - Union Councils of Pakistan - University of Agriculture, Peshawar - University of Karachi - University of Central Punjab - University of the Punjab - University of the Punjab, Gujranwala - Urdu\n\nVedic Aryans - Vedic civilization - Vima Takto–Vehari\n\nWagah - Wakhan - Water supply and sanitation in Pakistan - Waziristan -West Pakistan - West Punjab - White Corolla case - White Huns\n\nAamer Zahid - Zhob - Ziarat - Zulfikar Ali Bhutto\n\n"}
{"id": "2023604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023604", "title": "Ivvavik National Park", "text": "Ivvavik National Park\n\nIvvavik National Park is located in Yukon, Canada. Initially named \"Northern Yukon National Park,\" the park was renamed Ivvavik in 1992 for the Inuvialuktun word meaning \"nursery\" or \"birthplace,\" in reference to the importance of the area as a calving ground for caribou. Created as a result of the Inuvialuit Final Agreement in 1984, negotiated between the Canadian Government and the Inuvialuit of the Northern Yukon, Ivvavik is the first national park in Canada to be established as a result of an aboriginal land claims agreement.\n\nIvvavik contains the British Mountains which run east to west, parallel to the Arctic coast, and merge into the Brooks Range in Alaska.\nDraining north through the Park from the British Mountains is the Firth River, the oldest river in Canada and considered one of the great rafting rivers of the world. The river starts from year-round aufeis formations at the headwaters and then flows through extensive canyon areas before forming a huge delta as it enters the Beaufort Sea just west of Herschel Island. The first raft descent was by Martyn Williams, Alan Dennis and Jim Boyde.\nGold miners have operated on the Firth River and at Sheep Creek until the area became a National Park. The area around Sheep Creek is the northern most extension of Dall sheep habitat in Canada\n\nThe park contains many cultural sites of continuing importance to the local indigenous people, both Inuit and Indian.\nProtecting a portion of the calving grounds of the Porcupine caribou herd, the park allows only a minimal number of people to visit per year.\n\nOn the shore of Beaufort Sea, there is abundant game for timber wolves, grizzly bears, and black bears that inhabit the area. Other animals that inhabit this park two species of fox, moose, lemmings, Dall sheep, gyrfalcons, muskoxen, and wolverines. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge lies just across the border in Alaska. The Firth River holds some of the longest stocks of Dolly Varden char in western Canada\n\nOn the south-east, Ivvavik National Park borders Vuntut National Park, established in 1995. Due to land claims negotiations, Vuntut is still quite undeveloped and has no roads or developed trails. Due to its undeveloped nature, several people have got lost and are presumed dead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11487544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11487544", "title": "Kamyana Mohyla", "text": "Kamyana Mohyla\n\nKamyana Mohyla (; literally: \"stone tomb\") is an archaeological site in the Molochna River (literally \"Milk river\") valley, about a mile from the village of Terpinnya, Zaporizhia Oblast, Ukraine. Petroglyphs of Kamyana Mohyla are dated from Upper Paleolithic (Kukrek culture) to Medieval, with Stone Age depictions subjected to most archaeological interest. \n\nThe site encompasses a group of isolated blocks of sandstone, up to twelve meters in height, scattered around an area of some 3,000 square meters. As Noghai legend has it, it resulted from a scuffle of two baghaturs who took turns throwing rocks at each other. In truth, the site had its origins in a sandbank of the Tethys Ocean. For a long time it was an island in the Molochna River, which has since been silted up and now flows a short distance to the west. It is thought to represent the only sandstone outcrop in the Azov-Kuban Depression.\n\nThe shape of this sand hill is similar to that of kurgans that dot the Pontic-Caspian steppe. In 1889, the Russian archaeologist Nikolay Veselovsky was called upon to explore the enigmatic site and started excavations the following year. As soon as he concluded that the site was a burial mound, excavations were terminated. There was very little scientific exploration of the site during the first third of the 20th century. \n\nIn the 1930s the site was investigated by a team of scholars from Melitopol under Valentin Danylenko (1913–82). The young archaeologist claimed to have discovered thirty caves with petroglyph inscriptions which he dated from the 20th century BC to the 17th century AD. Danylenko resumed his work on the site after World War II and claimed to have discovered thirteen additional caves with petroglyphs. \nThe site was designated an archaeological preserve in 1954. The move was intended to prevent the area from being flooded after construction of a water reservoir. During the following decades, the condition of petroglyphs visibly deteriorated.\n\nPetroglyphs are found only inside the caves and grottoes of Kamenna Mohyla, many of them still filled up with sand. No adequate protection from the elements has been provided to this day. No traces of ancient human settlement have been discovered in the vicinity, leading many scholars to believe that the hill served as a remote sanctuary. Faint traces of red paint remain on parts of the surface. Scholars have been unable to agree whether the petroglyphs date from Mesolithic or Neolithic. The latter dating is more popular, although the presumed depiction of a mammoth in one of the caves seems to favour the former date.\n\nIn 2006, the government of Ukraine nominated the site for inscription on the World Heritage List. On the whole, the Stone Tomb images represent traces of religious exercises of the hunters and cattle-breeders of this steppe zone of southeast Europe from the 20th century BC to the 17th century AD. Some caves are of artificial origin; their cultural strata have been fixed as the Neolithic, Bronze and Early Iron Ages as well as of Middle Ages.\n\nDanylenko's magnum opus about the site was released posthumously, but it took the publication of Anatoly Kifishin's hefty monograph in 2001 to attract wider attention to Kamenna Mohyla. In this controversial work, Kifishin compared the petroglyphs of Kamenna Mohyla to those of Çatalhöyük and concluded that both were related to the Sumerian cuneiform script. Shortly before his death, Igor Diakonov lashed out against Kifishin's hypothesis (the two openly feuded since the 1960s).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54603542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54603542", "title": "Kelvyn Jones", "text": "Kelvyn Jones\n\nKelvyn Jones, (born ) is a British professor (Emeritus) of human quantitative geography at the University of Bristol. He focuses on the quantitative modeling of social science data with complex structure through the application of multilevel models; especially in relation to change and health outcomes.\n"}
{"id": "33329801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33329801", "title": "List of Armenian territories and states", "text": "List of Armenian territories and states\n\nThis is a list of Armenian states, countries and regions throughout history. \nIt includes empires, countries, states, provinces, regions and territories that have or had in the past one of the following characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is the list of the current states and regions where Armenians are in absolute or relative ethnic majority, are one of the constitutional or recognized peoples or Armenian language is official:\n\n"}
{"id": "59101553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59101553", "title": "List of Czech regions by GDP", "text": "List of Czech regions by GDP\n\nThis is a list of Czech regions by GDP and GDP per capita. The equivalent countries which are comparable to the Czech regions in GDP per capita are chosen by Worldbank data for the same year.\n\nRegions by GDP in 2016 according to data by the OECD.\nRegions by GDP per capita in 2016 according to data by the OECD.\n"}
{"id": "36455696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36455696", "title": "List of English translated personal names", "text": "List of English translated personal names\n\nThe list does not include names which are commonly translated by the common set of English first names:\nIt also does not include:\n\nModern convention is not to translate modern personal names.\n\n\nAlso see List of Latinised names.\n\n"}
{"id": "32181564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181564", "title": "List of Governors-General of French West Africa", "text": "List of Governors-General of French West Africa\n\nThis is a list of European colonial administrators responsible for the territory of French West Africa, an area equivalent to modern-day Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, Benin and Togo.\n\n"}
{"id": "33534703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33534703", "title": "List of flag bearers for Malta at the Olympics", "text": "List of flag bearers for Malta at the Olympics\n\nThis is a list of flag bearers who have represented Malta at the Olympics.\n\nFlag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "23856791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23856791", "title": "List of islands of the Marshall Islands", "text": "List of islands of the Marshall Islands\n\nThe Republic of Marshall Islands consists of 29 atolls (each made up of many islets) and 5 islands, which can be divided into two island chains, Ralik Chain and Ratak Chain.\n\nAdministratively, the country is divided into 24 inhabited municipalities, corresponding to the 24 inhabited atolls or islands, where each of them is an electoral district.\n\n[3] Most of the Rongelapese community lives since 1985 on the Mejatto Island of Kwajalein Atoll, due to the radioactive contamination of their atoll.\n\nThe remaining 10 atolls/islands are currently uninhabited. According to the Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the uninhabited atolls/islands Narikrik, Erikub, Jemo, Taka, Bikar, Bokak, Rongrik and Ailinginae \"shall each be included in the electoral district with which it is most closely associated, pursuant to the customary law or any traditional practice.\" Ujelang is listed with the \"Enewetak & Ujelang District\", and Bikini with the \"Bikini & Kili District\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40498328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40498328", "title": "List of lifeboat disasters in Britain and Ireland", "text": "List of lifeboat disasters in Britain and Ireland\n\nMany lives have been lost by lifeboat crews going to the aid of people and vessels in distress at sea and around the coasts of Britain and Ireland (UK, Republic of Ireland, Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), mainly but not exclusively in the service of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI). More than 600 names are inscribed on the RNLI Memorial at RNLI HQ, Poole. Some losses predate the RNLI (founded in 1824).\n\nIn the 19th century, lifeboats were almost exclusively oar and sail powered. Self-righting boats had been developed but were not yet widely adopted.\n\nDuring the 20th century many advances were made in safety and durability of lifeboats, including self-righting and motor power. Life jackets were continuously being improved.\n\n"}
{"id": "40636587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40636587", "title": "List of mayors of Sarajevo", "text": "List of mayors of Sarajevo\n\nThis is a list of people who have served as mayor or president of the city council of the city of Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sarajevo has had 37 different mayors since the position was created on 22 August 1878, upon Austro-Hungarian occupation.\n\nThe first mayor of Sarajevo Mustafa Fadilpašić was also the city's longest-served mayor, having remained in the position for 14 years. The only mayor to serve more than once was Edhem Bičakčić, who was mayor from 1928–29, then again from 1935–39. The first non-Bosniak mayor was Aristotel Petrović (1918–1920). Semiha Borovac became Sarajevo's first female mayor in 2005. Fehim Čurčić, the city's fifth mayor, served during World War I. In 1941, Atih Hadžikadić was elected mayor, a position that was short-lived as he was hanged during World War II in August 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15296321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15296321", "title": "List of postal codes in Cape Verde", "text": "List of postal codes in Cape Verde\n\nPostal codes in Cape Verde are a four digit number, where the first digit corresponds to the island and the first two digits correspond to the Concelho (county/municipality), as illustrated by the table below.\n\nThe postal code numbers start with 1xxx and ends with 9xxxx, it starts in Santo Antão eastward to Sal, then southward to Maio and westward to Brava. As with several countries, the postal code number does not start in an area or an island with the capital city.\n"}
{"id": "21514483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21514483", "title": "List of school districts in Prince Edward Island", "text": "List of school districts in Prince Edward Island\n\nThere are 2 school districts in the province of Prince Edward Island, Canada. Formerly 5, the number has decreased with merges in some areas of the province.\n\n"}
{"id": "47710088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47710088", "title": "List of shipwrecks in the Channel Islands", "text": "List of shipwrecks in the Channel Islands\n\nThe list of shipwrecks in the Channel Islands lists some of the ships that wrecked on or sank in the waters of the Bailiwick of Guernsey and the Bailiwick of Jersey. The list includes ships that sustained a damaged hull, which were later refloated and repaired.\n\nThere are at least 700 identified shipwrecks and another 100 unidentified, in Bailiwick of Guernsey waters alone.\n\nJersey experiences some of the largest tidal ranges in the world, up to 12 metres; Guernsey has slightly less dramatic tides. The mass of water moving in and out gives rise to fast moving currents. Alderney has the Alderney Race, which can run up to about twelve knots during equinoctial tides. These combined with the numerous smaller islands, offshore reefs, and isolated rocks extending up to from the main islands, as well as the Islands' location close to the English Channel shipping channels, has resulted in thousands of shipwrecks over the centuries.\n\nThe Bailiwick of Guernsey comprises the islands of Guernsey, Alderney, Sark, Herm and a number of smaller islands, islets and rocks. See List of islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey for a complete list of their smaller islands.\n\nLes Casquets or (The) Casquets ( ); is a group of rocks 13 km west of Alderney and are part of an underwater sandstone ridge. Other parts which emerge above the water are the islets of Burhou and Ortac. Little vegetation grows on them.\n\nThe Bailiwick of Jersey comprises the island of Jersey and a number of smaller islets and rocks, most of which are covered at high tide. See List of islands of the Bailiwick of Jersey for a complete list of their smaller islands.\n\nLes Écréhous NE of Jersey consists of two reefs which form an extensive shoal area long and wide.\n\nLes Minquiers S of Jersey, its largest island is only 50 metres by 20 metres, but at low water, Les Minquiers has a land area greater than 100km².\n\nThe deliberate wrecking of ships has not been a Channel Island trait, although the recovery of goods from a natural wreck has always been undertaken. Smuggling and Privateer's have abounded in the Islands' waters over many centuries.\n\nModern navigation systems have helped reduce the number of disasters, but shipping still receive warnings of waters around the Channel Islands\n\n"}
{"id": "7988323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7988323", "title": "List of songs about Jerusalem", "text": "List of songs about Jerusalem\n\nThis is a list of songs about Jerusalem, including major parts of the city such as individual neighborhoods and sections. Religiously significant to all three Abrahamic religions for centuries and politically controversial since the inception of the Zionist movement, Jerusalem has been artistically associated with widely varied concepts. There are many songs about Jerusalem from various time periods, especially nationalistically-themed songs from the time of the Six-Day War, when East Jerusalem passed from Jordanian control to Israeli. \n\nAdditionally many Biblical Psalms, styled as songs, were written specifically about Jerusalem. Jewish liturgy and hymns are rife with references to Jerusalem.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221008", "title": "Lists of law schools", "text": "Lists of law schools\n\nThis lists of law schools is organized by world region and then country.\n\n\n\n\n• Adekunle Ajasin University Faculty of Law\n• Ahmadu Bello University Faculty of Law\n• Ambrose Alli University Faculty of Law\n• Anambra State University Faculty of Law\n• Bayero University Faculty of Law\n• Benue State University Faculty of Law\n• Delta State University Faculty of Law\n• Ebonyi State University Faculty of Law\n• Enugu State University Faculty of Law\n• Igbinedion University Faculty of Law\n• Imo State University Faculty of Law\n• Kogi State University Faculty of Law\n• Lagos State University Faculty of Law\n• Madonna University Faculty of Law\n• Nnamdi Azikiwe University Faculty of Law\n• Obafemi Awolowo University Faculty of Law\n• Olabisi Onabanjo University Faculty of Law\n• Rivers State University Faculty of Law\n• University of Abuja Faculty of Law\n• Ekiti State University Faculty of Law\n• University of Benin Faculty of Law\n• University of Calabar Faculty of Law\n• University of Ibadan Faculty of Law\n• University of Ilorin Faculty of Law\n• University of Jos Faculty of Law\n• University of Lagos Faculty of Law\n• University of Maiduguri Faculty of Law\n• University of Nigeria Faculty of Law\n• University of Uyo Faculty of Law\n• Usman Danfodiyo University Faculty of Law\n• Niger Delta University Faculty of Law\n• Babcock University Faculty of Law\n• Nasarawa State University Faculty of Law\n• Benson Idahosa University Faculty of Law\n• Osun State University Faculty of Law\n• Afe Babalola University Faculty of Law\n. umaru musa yar'adua University Katsina Faculty of Law\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20960194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20960194", "title": "Madhabkunda", "text": "Madhabkunda\n\nMadhabkunda is one of the most well-known and major waterfalls of Bangladesh. It is situated in Borolekha thana in Moulovi Bazar District. It is about 3 km from Dakhinbagh railway station and attracts large numbers of tourists every year. Madhabkunda is a major tourist attraction of Sylhet and has a thriving tourism business. A recent addition of water reservoir and tourist cottege has increased the facilities of the spot considerably. \n"}
{"id": "16285810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285810", "title": "Outline of the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "Outline of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the United States Virgin Islands:\n\nThe Territory of the United States Virgin Islands is an unincorporated organized territory of the United States of America located in the western portion of the Virgin Islands Archipelago in the Caribbean Sea. The Virgin Islands are part of the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles. The British Virgin Islands comprises the eastern portion of the archipelago.\n\nThe U.S. Virgin Islands consist of the main islands of Saint Croix, Saint John and Saint Thomas, along with the much smaller but historically distinct Water Island, and many other surrounding minor islands. The total land area of the territory is 346.36 km² (133.73 sq mi). As of the 2000 census the population was 108,612.\n\nThree of the main islands have nicknames often used by locals: \"Rock City\" (St. Thomas), \"Love City\" (St. John), and \"Twin City\" (St. Croix).\nGeography of the United States Virgin Islands\n\n\n\nRegions of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nList of ecoregions in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nAdministrative divisions of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nProvinces of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nDistricts of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nMunicipalities of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nDemographics of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nPolitics of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nGovernment of the United States Virgin Islands\n\n\nCourt system of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nForeign relations of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nThe Territory of the United States Virgin Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nMilitary of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nLocal government in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nHistory of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nCulture of the United States Virgin Islands\n\n\nSports in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nEconomy of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nEducation in the United States Virgin Islands\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1299836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299836", "title": "Remote Oceania", "text": "Remote Oceania\n\nRemote Oceania is the part of Oceania settled within the last 3,000 to 3,500 years, comprising Island Melanesia south and east of the Solomon Islands archipelago, plus the open Pacific: Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Fiji, Palau, Micronesia, and Polynesia. Compare Near Oceania.\n\n"}
{"id": "7628184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628184", "title": "Russell Kirkpatrick", "text": "Russell Kirkpatrick\n\nRussell Kirkpatrick (born 1961, Christchurch, New Zealand) is a geography lecturer and a novelist. He holds a PhD in geography from the University of Canterbury, and lectured at the University of Waikato in Hamilton until 2014. He is currently living and writing in Australia. He has worked on seven atlas projects, including the \"New Zealand Historical Atlas\" (1998) and authored the \"Contemporary Atlas of New Zealand\" (1999/2004). He also wrote and was photographer for a book about New Zealand Waterfalls - \"Walk to Waterfalls\" (2011).\n\nHe has written two well received fantasy trilogies, \"Fire of Heaven\" and \"Husk\". \"Across the Face of the World\" was the biggest selling debut fantasy in the United States in 2008.\n\n\n\nKirkpatrick has won three Sir Julius Vogel Awards (New Zealand science fiction and fantasy awards) for Best Novel - Adult, for \"Path of Revenge\" in 2008, \"Dark Heart\" in 2009 and \"Beyond the Wall of Time\" in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "18842323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18842323", "title": "Sea", "text": "Sea\n\nThe sea, the world ocean or simply the ocean is the connected body of salty water that covers over 70 percent of the Earth's surface. It moderates the Earth's climate and has important roles in the water cycle, carbon cycle, and nitrogen cycle. It has been travelled and explored since ancient times, while the scientific study of the sea—oceanography—dates broadly from the voyages of Captain James Cook to explore the Pacific Ocean between 1768 and 1779. The word \"sea\" is also used to denote smaller, partly landlocked sections of the ocean.\n\nThe most abundant solid dissolved in sea water is sodium chloride. The water also contains salts of magnesium, calcium, and potassium, amongst many other elements, some in minute concentrations. Salinity varies widely, being lower near the surface and the mouths of large rivers and higher in the depths of the ocean; however the relative proportions of dissolved salts varies little across the oceans. Winds blowing over the surface of the sea produce waves, which break when they enter shallow water. Winds also create surface currents through friction, setting up slow but stable circulations of water throughout the oceans. The directions of the circulation are governed by factors including the shapes of the continents and the rotation of the earth (the Coriolis effect). Deep-sea currents, known as the global conveyor belt, carry cold water from near the poles to every ocean. Tides, the generally twice-daily rise and fall of sea levels, are caused by the rotation of the Earth and the gravitational effects of the orbiting Moon, and to a lesser extent of the Sun. Tides may have a very high range in bays or estuaries. Submarine earthquakes arising from tectonic plate movements under the oceans can lead to destructive tsunamis, as can volcanoes, huge landslides or the impact of large meteorites.\n\nA wide variety of organisms, including bacteria, protists, algae, plants, fungi and animals, live in the sea, which offers a wide range of marine habitats and ecosystems, ranging vertically from the sunlit surface waters and the shoreline to the enormous depths and pressures of the cold, dark abyssal zone, and in latitude from the cold waters under the Arctic ice to the colourful diversity of coral reefs in tropical regions. Many of the major groups of organisms evolved in the sea and life may have started there.\n\nThe sea provides substantial supplies of food for humans, mainly fish, but also shellfish, mammals and seaweed, whether caught by fishermen or farmed underwater. Other human uses of the sea include trade, travel, mineral extraction, power generation, warfare, and leisure activities such as swimming, sailing and scuba diving. Many of these activities create marine pollution. The sea is important in human culture, with major appearances in literature at least since Homer's \"Odyssey\", in marine art, in cinema, in theatre and in classical music. Symbolically, the sea appears as monsters such as Scylla in mythology and represents the unconscious mind in dream interpretation.\n\nThe sea is the interconnected system of all the Earth's oceanic waters, including the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Southern and Arctic Oceans. However, the word \"sea\" can also be used for many specific, much smaller bodies of seawater, such as the North Sea or the Red Sea. There is no sharp distinction between seas and oceans, though generally seas are smaller, and are often partly (as marginal seas) or wholly (as inland seas) bordered by land. However, the Sargasso Sea has no coastline and lies within a circular current, the North Atlantic Gyre. Seas are generally larger than lakes and contain salt water, but the Sea of Galilee is a freshwater lake. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea states that all of the ocean is \"sea\".\n\nEarth is the only known planet with seas of liquid water on its surface, although Mars possesses ice caps and similar planets in other solar systems may have oceans. It is still unclear where Earth's water came from, but, seen from space, our planet appears as a \"blue marble\" of its various forms: oceans, ice caps, clouds. Earth's of sea contain about 97.2 percent of its known water and cover more than 70 percent of its surface. Another 2.15% of Earth's water is frozen, found in the sea ice covering the Arctic Ocean, the ice cap covering Antarctica and its adjacent seas, and various glaciers and surface deposits around the world. The remainder (about 0.65% of the whole) form underground reservoirs or various stages of the water cycle, containing the freshwater encountered and used by most terrestrial life: vapor in the air, the clouds it slowly forms, the rain falling from them, and the lakes and rivers spontaneously formed as its waters flow again and again to the sea. The sea's dominance of the planet is such that the British author Arthur C. Clarke once noted that \"Earth\" would have been better named \"Ocean\".\n\nThe scientific study of water and Earth's water cycle is hydrology; hydrodynamics studies the physics of water in motion. The more recent study of the sea in particular is oceanography. This began as the study of the shape of the ocean's currents but has since expanded into a large and multidisciplinary field: it examines the properties of seawater; studies waves, tides, and currents; charts coastlines and maps the seabeds; and studies marine life. The subfield dealing with the sea's motion, its forces, and the forces acting upon it is known as physical oceanography. Marine biology (biological oceanography) studies the plants, animals, and other organisms inhabiting marine ecosystems. Both are informed by chemical oceanography, which studies the behavior of elements and molecules within the oceans: particularly, at the moment, the ocean's role in the carbon cycle and carbon dioxide's role in the increasing acidification of seawater. Marine and maritime geography charts the shape and shaping of the sea, while marine geology (geological oceanography) has provided evidence of continental drift and the composition and structure of the Earth, clarified the process of sedimentation, and assisted the study of volcanism and earthquakes.\n\nThe water in the sea was thought to come from the Earth's volcanoes, starting 4 billion years ago, released by degassing from molten rock. More recent work suggests much of the Earth's water may come from comets. A characteristic of seawater is that it is salty. Salinity is usually measured in parts per thousand (‰ or per mil), and the open ocean has about solids per litre, a salinity of 35 ‰. The Mediterranean Sea is slightly higher at 38 ‰, while the salinity in northern Read Sea could reach 41‰. The constituents of table salt, sodium and chloride, make up about 85 percent of the solids in solution, there are also other metal ions such as magnesium and calcium and negative ions including sulphate, carbonate, and bromide. Despite variations in the levels of salinity in different seas, the relative composition of the dissolved salts is stable throughout the world's oceans. Seawater is too saline for humans to drink safely, as the kidneys cannot excrete urine as salty as seawater. In contrast, some landlocked hypersaline lakes have a much higher salinity, for example the Dead Sea has dissolved solids per litre (300 ‰).\nAlthough the amount of salt in the ocean remains relatively constant within the scale of millions of years, various factors affect the salinity of a body of water. Evaporation and by-product of ice formation (known as \"brine rejection\") increase salinity, whereas precipitation, sea ice melt, and runoff from land reduce it. The Baltic Sea, for example, has many rivers flowing into it, and thus the sea could be considered as brackish. Meanwhile, the Red Sea is very salty due to its high evaporation rate.\n\nSea temperature depends on the amount of solar radiation falling on its surface. In the tropics, with the sun nearly overhead, the temperature of the surface layers can rise to over while near the poles the temperature in equilibrium with the sea ice is about . There is a continuous circulation of water in the oceans. Warm surface currents cool as they move away from the tropics, and the water becomes denser and sinks. The cold water moves back towards the equator as a deep sea current, driven by changes in the temperature and density of the water, before eventually welling up again towards the surface. Deep seawater has a temperature between and in all parts of the globe.\n\nSeawater with a typical salinity of 35‰ has a freezing point of about −1.8 °C (28.8 °F). When its temperature becomes low enough, ice crystals form on the surface. These break into small pieces and coalesce into flat discs that form a thick suspension known as frazil. In calm conditions this freezes into a thin flat sheet known as nilas, which thickens as new ice forms on its underside. In more turbulent seas, frazil crystals join together into flat discs known as pancakes. These slide under each other and coalesce to form floes. In the process of freezing, salt water and air are trapped between the ice crystals. Nilas may have a salinity of 12–15 ‰, but by the time the sea ice is one year old, this falls to 4–6 ‰.\n\nThe amount of oxygen found in seawater depends primarily on the plants growing in it. These are mainly algae, including phytoplankton, with some vascular plants such as seagrasses. In daylight the photosynthetic activity of these plants produces oxygen, which dissolves in the seawater and is used by marine animals. At night, photosynthesis stops, and the amount of dissolved oxygen declines. In the deep sea, where insufficient light penetrates for plants to grow, there is very little dissolved oxygen. In its absence, organic material is broken down by anaerobic bacteria producing hydrogen sulphide. Global warming is likely to reduce levels of oxygen in surface waters, since the solubility of oxygen in water falls at higher temperatures.\nThe amount of light that penetrates the sea depends on the angle of the sun, the weather conditions and the turbidity of the water. Much light gets reflected at the surface, and red light gets absorbed in the top few metres. Yellow and green light reach greater depths, and blue and violet light may penetrate as deep as . There is insufficient light for photosynthesis and plant growth beyond a depth of about .\n\nWind blowing over the surface of a body of water forms waves that are perpendicular to the direction of the wind. The friction between air and water caused by a gentle breeze on a pond causes ripples to form. A strong blow over the ocean causes larger waves as the moving air pushes against the raised ridges of water. The waves reach their maximum height when the rate at which they are travelling nearly matches the speed of the wind. In open water, when the wind blows continuously as happens in the Southern Hemisphere in the Roaring Forties, long, organised masses of water called swell roll across the ocean. If the wind dies down, the wave formation is reduced, but already-formed waves continue to travel in their original direction until they meet land. The size of the waves depends on the fetch, the distance that the wind has blown over the water and the strength and duration of that wind. When waves meet others coming from different directions, interference between the two can produce broken, irregular seas. Constructive interference can cause individual (unexpected) rogue waves much higher than normal. Most waves are less than high and it is not unusual for strong storms to double or triple that height; offshore construction such as wind farms and oil platforms use metocean statistics from measurements in computing the wave forces (due to for instance the hundred-year wave) they are designed against. Rogue waves, however, have been documented at heights above .\n\nThe top of a wave is known as the crest, the lowest point between waves is the trough and the distance between the crests is the wavelength. The wave is pushed across the surface of the sea by the wind, but this represents a transfer of energy and not a horizontal movement of water. As waves approach land and move into shallow water, they change their behavior. If approaching at an angle, waves may bend (refraction) or wrap rocks and headlands (diffraction). When the wave reaches a point where its deepest oscillations of the water contact the seabed, they begin to slow down. This pulls the crests closer together and increases the waves' height, which is called wave shoaling. When the ratio of the wave's height to the water depth increases above a certain limit, it \"breaks\", toppling over in a mass of foaming water. This rushes in a sheet up the beach before retreating into the sea under the influence of gravity.\n\nA tsunami is an unusual form of wave caused by an infrequent powerful event such as an underwater earthquake or landslide, a meteorite impact, a volcanic eruption or a collapse of land into the sea. These events can temporarily lift or lower the surface of the sea in the affected area, usually by a few feet. The potential energy of the displaced seawater is turned into kinetic energy, creating a shallow wave, a tsunami, radiating outwards at a velocity proportional to the square root of the depth of the water and which therefore travels much faster in the open ocean than on a continental shelf. In the deep open sea, tsunamis have wavelengths of around , travel at speeds of over 600 miles per hour (970 km/hr) and usually have a height of less than three feet, so they often pass unnoticed at this stage. In contrast, ocean surface waves caused by winds have wavelengths of a few hundred feet, travel at up to and are up to high.\n\nA trigger event on the continental shelf may cause a local tsunami on the land side and a distant tsunami that travels out across the ocean. The energy of the wave is dissipated only gradually, but is spread out over the wave front, so as the wave radiates away from the source, the front gets longer and the average energy reduces, so distant shores will, on average, be hit by weaker waves. However, as the speed of the wave is controlled by the water depth, it does not travel at the same speed in all directions, and this affects the direction of the wave front - an effect known as refraction - which can focus the strength of the advancing tsunami on some areas and weaken it in others according to undersea topography.\nAs a tsunami moves into shallower water its speed decreases, its wavelength shortens and its amplitude increases enormously, behaving in the same way as a wind-generated wave in shallow water, but on a vastly greater scale. Either the trough or the crest of a tsunami can arrive at the coast first. In the former case, the sea draws back and leaves subtidal areas close to the shore exposed which provides a useful warning for people on land. When the crest arrives, it does not usually break but rushes inland, flooding all in its path. Much of the destruction may be caused by the flood water draining back into the sea after the tsunami has struck, dragging debris and people with it. Often several tsunami are caused by a single geological event and arrive at intervals of between eight minutes and two hours. The first wave to arrive on shore may not be the biggest or most destructive. Occasionally, a tsunami may transform into a bore, typically in a shallow bay or an estuary.\n\nWind blowing over the surface of the sea causes friction at the interface between air and sea. Not only does this cause waves to form but it also makes the surface seawater move in the same direction as the wind. Although winds are variable, in any one place they predominantly blow from a single direction and thus a surface current can be formed. Westerly winds are most frequent in the mid-latitudes while easterlies dominate the tropics. When water moves in this way, other water flows in to fill the gap and a circular movement of surface currents known as a gyre is formed. There are five main gyres in the world's oceans: two in the Pacific, two in the Atlantic and one in the Indian Ocean. Other smaller gyres are found in lesser seas and a single gyre flows around Antarctica. These gyres have followed the same routes for millennia, guided by the topography of the land, the wind direction and the Coriolis effect. The surface currents flow in a clockwise direction in the Northern Hemisphere and anticlockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. The water moving away from the equator is warm, and that flowing in the reverse direction has lost most of its heat. These currents tend to moderate the Earth's climate, cooling the equatorial region and warming regions at higher latitudes. Global climate and weather forecasts are powerfully affected by the world ocean, so global climate modelling makes use of ocean circulation models as well as models of other major components such as the atmosphere, land surfaces, aerosols and sea ice. Ocean models make use of a branch of physics, geophysical fluid dynamics, that describes the large-scale flow of fluids such as seawater.\nSurface currents only affect the top few hundred metres (yards) of the sea, but there are also large-scale flows in the ocean depths caused by the movement of deep water masses. A main deep ocean current flows through all the world's oceans and is known as the thermohaline circulation or global conveyor belt. This movement is slow and is driven by differences in density of the water caused by variations in salinity and temperature. At high latitudes the water is chilled by the low atmospheric temperature and becomes saltier as sea ice crystallizes out. Both these factors make it denser, and the water sinks. From the deep sea near Greenland, such water flows southwards between the continental landmasses on either side of the Atlantic. When it reaches the Antarctic, it is joined by further masses of cold, sinking water and flows eastwards. It then splits into two streams that move northwards into the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Here it is gradually warmed, becomes less dense, rises towards the surface and loops back on itself. Some flows back into the Atlantic. It takes a thousand years for this circulation pattern to be completed.\n\nBesides gyres, there are temporary surface currents that occur under specific conditions. When waves meet a shore at an angle, a longshore current is created as water is pushed along parallel to the coastline. The water swirls up onto the beach at right angles to the approaching waves but drains away straight down the slope under the effect of gravity. The larger the breaking waves, the longer the beach and the more oblique the wave approach, the stronger is the longshore current. These currents can shift great volumes of sand or pebbles, create spits and make beaches disappear and water channels silt up. A rip current can occur when water piles up near the shore from advancing waves and is funnelled out to sea through a channel in the seabed. It may occur at a gap in a sandbar or near a man-made structure such as a groyne. These strong currents can have a velocity of per second, can form at different places at different stages of the tide and can carry away unwary bathers. Temporary upwelling currents occur when the wind pushes water away from the land and deeper water rises to replace it. This cold water is often rich in nutrients and creates blooms of phytoplankton and a great increase in the productivity of the sea.\n\nTides are the regular rise and fall in water level experienced by seas and oceans in response to the gravitational influences of the Moon and the Sun, and the effects of the Earth's rotation. During each tidal cycle, at any given place the water rises to a maximum height known as \"high tide\" before ebbing away again to the minimum \"low tide\" level. As the water recedes, it uncovers more and more of the foreshore, also known as the intertidal zone. The difference in height between the high tide and low tide is known as the tidal range or tidal amplitude.\n\nMost places experience two high tides each day, occurring at intervals of about 12 hours and 25 minutes. This is half the 24 hours and 50 minute period that it takes for the Earth to make a complete revolution and return the Moon to its previous position relative to an observer. The Moon's mass is some 27 million times smaller than the Sun, but it is 400 times closer to the Earth. Tidal force or tide-raising force decreases rapidly with distance, so the moon has more than twice as great an effect on tides as the Sun. A bulge is formed in the ocean at the place where the Earth is closest to the Moon, because it is also where the effect of the Moon's gravity is stronger. On the opposite side of the Earth, the lunar force is at its weakest and this causes another bulge to form. As the Moon rotates around the Earth, so do these ocean bulges move around the Earth. The gravitational attraction of the Sun is also working on the seas, but its effect on tides is less powerful than that of the Moon, and when the Sun, Moon and Earth are all aligned (full moon and new moon), the combined effect results in the high \"spring tides\". In contrast, when the Sun is at 90° from the Moon as viewed from Earth, the combined gravitational effect on tides is less causing the lower \"neap tides\".\n\nTidal flows of seawater are resisted by the water's inertia and can be affected by land masses. In places like the Gulf of Mexico where land constrains the movement of the bulges, only one set of tides may occur each day. Inshore from an island there may be a complex daily cycle with four high tides. The island straits at Chalkis on Euboea experience strong currents which abruptly switch direction, generally four times per day but up to 12 times per day when the moon and the sun are 90 degrees apart. Where there is a funnel-shaped bay or estuary, the tidal range can be magnified. The Bay of Fundy is the classic example of this and can experience spring tides of . Although tides are regular and predictable, the height of high tides can be lowered by offshore winds and raised by onshore winds. The high pressure at the centre of an anticyclones pushes down on the water and is associated with abnormally low tides while low-pressure areas may cause extremely high tides. A storm surge can occur when high winds pile water up against the coast in a shallow area and this, coupled with a low pressure system, can raise the surface of the sea at high tide dramatically. In 1900, Galveston, Texas experienced a surge during a hurricane that overwhelmed the city, killing over 3,500 people and destroying 3,636 homes.\n\nThe Earth is composed of a magnetic central core, a mostly liquid mantle and a hard rigid outer shell (or lithosphere), which is composed of the Earth's rocky crust and the deeper mostly solid outer layer of the mantle. On land the crust is known as the continental crust while under the sea it is known as the oceanic crust. The latter is composed of relatively dense basalt and is some five to ten kilometres (three to six miles) thick. The relatively thin lithosphere floats on the weaker and hotter mantle below and is fractured into a number of tectonic plates. In mid-ocean, magma is constantly being thrust through the seabed between adjoining plates to form mid-oceanic ridges and here convection currents within the mantle tend to drive the two plates apart. Parallel to these ridges and nearer the coasts, one oceanic plate may slide beneath another oceanic plate in a process known as subduction. Deep trenches are formed here and the process is accompanied by friction as the plates grind together. The movement proceeds in jerks which cause earthquakes, heat is produced and magma is forced up creating underwater mountains, some of which may form chains of volcanic islands near to deep trenches. Near some of the boundaries between the land and sea, the slightly denser oceanic plates slide beneath the continental plates and more subduction trenches are formed. As they grate together, the continental plates are deformed and buckle causing mountain building and seismic activity.\n\nThe Earth's deepest trench is the Mariana Trench which extends for about across the seabed. It is near the Mariana Islands, a volcanic archipelago in the West Pacific, and though it averages just wide, its deepest point is 10.994 kilometres (nearly 7 miles) below the surface of the sea. An even longer trench runs alongside the coast of Peru and Chile, reaching a depth of and extending for approximately . It occurs where the oceanic Nazca Plate slides under the continental South American Plate and is associated with the upthrust and volcanic activity of the Andes.\n\nThe zone where land meets sea is known as the coast and the part between the lowest spring tides and the upper limit reached by splashing waves is the shore. A beach is the accumulation of sand or shingle on the shore. A headland is a point of land jutting out into the sea and a larger promontory is known as a cape. The indentation of a coastline, especially between two headlands, is a bay, a small bay with a narrow inlet is a cove and a large bay may be referred to as a gulf. Coastlines are influenced by a number of factors including the strength of the waves arriving on the shore, the gradient of the land margin, the composition and hardness of the coastal rock, the inclination of the off-shore slope and the changes of the level of the land due to local uplift or submergence. Normally, waves roll towards the shore at the rate of six to eight per minute and these are known as constructive waves as they tend to move material up the beach and have little erosive effect. Storm waves arrive on shore in rapid succession and are known as destructive waves as the swash moves beach material seawards. Under their influence, the sand and shingle on the beach is ground together and abraded. Around high tide, the power of a storm wave impacting on the foot of a cliff has a shattering effect as air in cracks and crevices is compressed and then expands rapidly with release of pressure. At the same time, sand and pebbles have an erosive effect as they are thrown against the rocks. This tends to undercut the cliff, and normal weathering processes such as the action of frost follows, causing further destruction. Gradually, a wave-cut platform develops at the foot of the cliff and this has a protective effect, reducing further wave-erosion.\n\nMaterial worn from the margins of the land eventually ends up in the sea. Here it is subject to attrition as currents flowing parallel to the coast scour out channels and transport sand and pebbles away from their place of origin. Sediment carried to the sea by rivers settles on the seabed causing deltas to form in estuaries. All these materials move back and forth under the influence of waves, tides and currents. Dredging removes material and deepens channels but may have unexpected effects elsewhere on the coastline. Governments make efforts to prevent flooding of the land by the building of breakwaters, seawalls, dykes and levees and other sea defences. For instance, the Thames Barrier is designed to protect London from a storm surge, while the failure of the dykes and levees around New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina created a humanitarian crisis in the United States. Land reclamation in Hong Kong also permitted the construction of Hong Kong International Airport through the leveling and expansion of two smaller islands.\n\nOver most of geologic time, the sea level has been higher than it is today. The main factor affecting sea level over time is the result of changes in the oceanic crust, with a downward trend expected to continue in the very long term. At the last glacial maximum, some 20,000 years ago, the sea level was below its present day level. For at least the last 100 years, sea level has been rising at an average rate of about per year. Most of this rise can be attributed to an increase in the temperature of the sea and the resulting slight thermal expansion of the upper of water. Additional contributions, as much as one quarter of the total, come from water sources on land, such as melting snow and glaciers and extraction of groundwater for irrigation and other agricultural and human needs. The rising trend from global warming is expected to continue until at least the end of the 21st century.\n\nThe sea plays a part in the water or hydrological cycle, in which water evaporates from the ocean, travels through the atmosphere as vapour, condenses, falls as rain or snow, thereby sustaining life on land, and largely returns to the sea. Even in the Atacama Desert, where little rain ever falls, dense clouds of fog known as the camanchaca blow in from the sea and support plant life.\n\nIn central Asia and other large land masses, there are endorheic basins which have no outlet to the sea, separated from the ocean by mountains or other natural geologic features that prevent the water draining away. The Caspian Sea is the largest one of these. Its main inflow is from the River Volga, there is no outflow and the evaporation of water makes it saline as dissolved minerals accumulate. The Aral Sea and Pyramid Lake in the western United States are further examples of large, inland saline water-bodies without drainage. Some endorheic lakes are less salty, but all are sensitive to variations in the quality of the inflowing water.\n\nOceans contain the greatest quantity of actively cycled carbon in the world and are second only to the lithosphere in the amount of carbon they store. The oceans' surface layer holds large amounts of dissolved organic carbon that is exchanged rapidly with the atmosphere. The deep layer's concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon is about 15 percent higher than that of the surface layer and it remains there for much longer periods of time. Thermohaline circulation exchanges carbon between these two layers.\n\nCarbon enters the ocean as atmospheric carbon dioxide dissolves in the surface layers and is converted into carbonic acid, carbonate, and bicarbonate: \n\nIt can also enter through rivers as dissolved organic carbon and is converted by photosynthetic organisms into organic carbon. This can either be exchanged throughout the food chain or precipitated into the deeper, more carbon rich layers as dead soft tissue or in shells and bones as calcium carbonate. It circulates in this layer for long periods of time before either being deposited as sediment or being returned to surface waters through thermohaline circulation.\n\nSeawater is slightly alkaline and had an average pH of about 8.2 over the past 300 million years. More recently, anthropogenic activities have steadily increased the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere; about 30–40% of the added CO is absorbed by the oceans, forming carbonic acid and lowering the pH (now below 8.1) through a process called ocean acidification. The pH is expected to reach 7.7 (representing a 3-fold increase in hydrogen ion concentration) by the year 2100, which is a significant change in a century.\n\nOne important element for the formation of skeletal material in marine animals is calcium, but calcium carbonate becomes more soluble with pressure, so carbonate shells and skeletons dissolve below its compensation depth. Calcium carbonate also becomes more soluble at lower pH, so ocean acidification is likely to have profound effects on marine organisms with calcareous shells, such as oysters, clams, sea urchins, and corals, because their ability to form shells will be reduced, and the carbonate compensation depth will rise closer to the sea surface. Affected planktonic organisms will include the snail-like molluscs known as pteropods, and single-celled algae called coccolithophorids and foraminifera. All of these are important parts of the food chain and a diminution in their numbers will have significant consequences. In tropical regions, corals are likely to be severely affected as it becomes more difficult to build their calcium carbonate skeletons, in turn adversely impacting other reef dwellers.\n\nThe current rate of ocean chemistry change appears to be without precedent in Earth's geological history, making it unclear how well marine ecosystems will be able to adapt to the shifting conditions of the near future. Of particular concern is the manner in which the combination of acidification with the expected additional stressors of higher temperatures and lower oxygen levels will impact the seas.\n\nThe oceans are home to a diverse collection of life forms that use it as a habitat. Since sunlight illuminates only the upper layers, the major part of the ocean exists in permanent darkness. As the different depth and temperature zones each provide habitat for a unique set of species, the marine environment as a whole encompasses an immense diversity of life. Marine habitats range from surface water to the deepest oceanic trenches, including coral reefs, kelp forests, seagrass meadows, tidepools, muddy, sandy and rocky seabeds, and the open pelagic zone. The organisms living in the sea range from whales 30 metres (100 ft) long to microscopic phytoplankton and zooplankton, fungi, and bacteria. Marine life plays an important part in the carbon cycle as photosynthetic organisms convert dissolved carbon dioxide into organic carbon and it is economically important to humans for providing fish for use as food.\n\nLife may have originated in the sea and all the major groups of animals are represented there. Scientists differ as to precisely where in the sea life arose: the Miller-Urey experiments suggested a dilute chemical \"soup\" in open water, but more recent suggestions include volcanic hot springs, fine-grained clay sediments, or deep-sea \"black smoker\" vents, all of which would have provided protection from damaging ultraviolet radiation which was not blocked by the early earth's atmosphere.\n\nMarine habitats can be divided horizontally into coastal and open ocean habitats. Coastal habitats extend from the shoreline to the edge of the continental shelf. Most marine life is found in coastal habitats, even though the shelf area occupies only 7 percent of the total ocean area. Open ocean habitats are found in the deep ocean beyond the edge of the continental shelf. Alternatively, marine habitats can be divided vertically into pelagic (open water), demersal (just above the seabed) and benthic (sea bottom) habitats. A third division is by latitude: from polar seas with ice shelves, sea ice and icebergs, to temperate and tropical waters.\n\nCoral reefs, the so-called \"rainforests of the sea\", occupy less than 0.1 percent of the world's ocean surface, yet their ecosystems include 25 percent of all marine species. The best-known are tropical coral reefs such as Australia's Great Barrier Reef, but cold water reefs harbour a wide array of species including corals (only six of which contribute to reef formation).\n\nMarine primary producers — plants and microscopic organisms in the plankton — are widespread and very essential for the ecosystem. It has been estimated that half of the world's oxygen is produced by phytoplankton. About 45 percent of the sea's primary production of living material is contributed by diatoms. Much larger algae, commonly known as seaweeds, are important locally; \"Sargassum\" forms floating drifts, while kelp form seabed forests. Flowering plants in the form of seagrasses grow in \"meadows\" in sandy shallows, mangroves line the coast in tropical and subtropical regions and salt-tolerant plants thrive in regularly inundated salt marshes. All of these habitats are able to sequester large quantities of carbon and support a biodiverse range of larger and smaller animal life.\n\nLight is only able to penetrate the top so this is the only part of the sea where plants can grow. The surface layers are often deficient in biologically active nitrogen compounds. The marine nitrogen cycle consists of complex microbial transformations which include the fixation of nitrogen, its assimilation, nitrification, anammox and denitrification. Some of these processes take place in deep water so that where there is an upwelling of cold waters, and also near estuaries where land-sourced nutrients are present, plant growth is higher. This means that the most productive areas, rich in plankton and therefore also in fish, are mainly coastal.\n\nThere is a broader spectrum of higher animal taxa in the sea than on land, many marine species have yet to be discovered and the number known to science is expanding annually. Some vertebrates such as seabirds, seals and sea turtles return to the land to breed but fish, cetaceans and sea snakes have a completely aquatic lifestyle and many invertebrate phyla are entirely marine. In fact, the oceans teem with life and provide many varying microhabitats. One of these is the surface film which, even though tossed about by the movement of waves, provides a rich environment and is home to bacteria, fungi, microalgae, protozoa, fish eggs and various larvae.\n\nThe pelagic zone contains macro- and microfauna and myriad zooplankton which drift with the currents. Most of the smallest organisms are the larvae of fish and marine invertebrates which liberate eggs in vast numbers because the chance of any one embryo surviving to maturity is so minute. The zooplankton feed on phytoplankton and on each other and form a basic part of the complex food chain that extends through variously sized fish and other nektonic organisms to large squid, sharks, porpoises, dolphins and whales. Some marine creatures make large migrations, either to other regions of the ocean on a seasonal basis or vertical migrations daily, often ascending to feed at night and descending to safety by day. Ships can introduce or spread invasive species through the discharge of ballast water or the transport of organisms that have accumulated as part of the fouling community on the hulls of vessels.\n\nThe demersal zone supports many animals that feed on benthic organisms or seek protection from predators and the seabed provides a range of habitats on or under the surface of the substrate which are used by creatures adapted to these conditions. The tidal zone with its periodic exposure to the dehydrating air is home to barnacles, molluscs and crustaceans. The neritic zone has many organisms that need light to flourish. Here, among algal encrusted rocks live sponges, echinoderms, polychaete worms, sea anemones and other invertebrates. Corals often contain photosynthetic symbionts and live in shallow waters where light penetrates. The extensive calcareous skeletons they extrude build up into coral reefs which are an important feature of the seabed. These provide a biodiverse habitat for reef dwelling organisms. There is less sea life on the floor of deeper seas but marine life also flourishes around seamounts that rise from the depths, where fish and other animals congregate to spawn and feed. Close to the seabed live demersal fish that feed largely on pelagic organisms or benthic invertebrates. Exploration of the deep sea by submersibles revealed a new world of creatures living on the seabed that scientists had not previously known to exist. Some like the detrivores rely on organic material falling to the ocean floor. Others cluster round deep sea hydrothermal vents where mineral-rich flows of water emerge from the seabed, supporting communities whose primary producers are sulphide-oxidising chemoautotrophic bacteria, and whose consumers include specialised bivalves, sea anemones, barnacles, crabs, worms and fish, often found nowhere else. A dead whale sinking to the bottom of the ocean provides food for an assembly of organisms which similarly rely largely on the actions of sulphur-reducing bacteria. Such places support unique biomes where many new microbes and other lifeforms have been discovered.\n\nHumans have travelled the seas since they first built sea-going craft. Mesopotamians were using bitumen to caulk their reed boats and, a little later, masted sails. By c. 3000 BC, Austronesians on Taiwan had begun spreading into maritime Southeast Asia. Subsequently, the Austronesian \"Lapita\" peoples displayed great feats of navigation, reaching out from the Bismarck Archipelago to as far away as Fiji, Tonga, and Samoa. Their descendants continued to travel thousands of miles between tiny islands on outrigger canoes, and in the process they found many new islands, including Hawaii, Easter Island (Rapa Nui), and New Zealand.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians and Phoenicians explored the Mediterranean and Red Sea with the Egyptian Hannu reaching the Arabian Peninsula and the African Coast around 2750 BC. In the 1st millennium BC, Phoenicians and Greeks established colonies throughout the Mediterranean and the Black Sea Around 500 BC, the Carthaginian navigator Hanno left a detailed periplus of an Atlantic journey that reached at least Senegal and possibly Mount Cameroon. In the early Mediaeval period, the Vikings crossed the North Atlantic and even reached the northeastern fringes of North America. Novgorodians had also been sailing the White Sea since the 13th century or before. Meanwhile, the seas along the eastern and southern Asian coast were used by Arab and Chinese traders. The Chinese Ming Dynasty had a fleet of 317 ships with 37,000 men under Zheng He in the early fifteenth century, sailing the Indian and Pacific Oceans. In the late fifteenth century, Western European mariners started making longer voyages of exploration in search of trade. Bartolomeu Dias rounded the Cape of Good Hope in 1487 and Vasco da Gama reached India via the Cape in 1498. Christopher Columbus sailed from Cadiz in 1492, attempting to reach the eastern lands of India and Japan by the novel means of travelling westwards. He made landfall instead on an island in the Caribbean Sea and a few years later, the Venetian navigator John Cabot reached Newfoundland. The Italian Amerigo Vespucci, after whom America was named, explored the South American coastline in voyages made between 1497 and 1502, discovering the mouth of the Amazon River. In 1519 the Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan led the first expedition to sail around the world.\nAs for the history of navigational instrument, a compass was first used by the ancient Greeks and Chinese to show where north lies and the direction in which the ship is heading. The latitude (an angle which ranges from 0° at the equator to 90° at the poles) was determined by measuring the angle between the Sun, Moon or a specific star and the horizon by the use of an astrolabe, Jacob's staff or sextant. The longitude (a line on the globe joining the two poles) could only be calculated with an accurate chronometer to show the exact time difference between the ship and a fixed point such as the Greenwich Meridian. In 1759, John Harrison, a clockmaker, designed such an instrument and James Cook used it in his voyages of exploration. Nowadays, the Global Positioning System (GPS) using over thirty satellites enables accurate navigation worldwide.\n\nWith regards to maps that are vital for navigation, in the second century, Ptolemy mapped the whole known world from the \"Fortunatae Insulae\", Cape Verde or Canary Islands, eastward to the Gulf of Thailand. This map was used in 1492 when Christopher Columbus set out on his voyages of discovery. Subsequently, Gerardus Mercator made a practical map of the world in 1538, his map projection conveniently making rhumb lines straight. By the eighteenth century better maps had been made and part of the objective of James Cook on his voyages was to further map the ocean. Scientific study has continued with the depth recordings of the \"Tuscarora\", the oceanic research of the Challenger voyages (1872–1876), the work of the Scandinavian seamen Roald Amundsen and Fridtjof Nansen, the Michael Sars expedition in 1910, the German Meteor expedition of 1925, the Antarctic survey work of \"Discovery II\" in 1932, and others since. Furthermore, in 1921, the International Hydrographic Organization was set up, and it constitutes the authority on hydrographic surveying and nautical charting.\n\nScientific oceanography began with the voyages of Captain James Cook from 1768 to 1779, describing the Pacific with unprecedented precision from 71 degrees South to 71 degrees North. John Harrison's chronometers supported Cook's accurate navigation and charting on two of these voyages, permanently improving the standard attainable for subsequent work. Other expeditions followed in the nineteenth century, from Russia, France, the Netherlands and the United States as well as Britain. On HMS \"Beagle\", which provided Charles Darwin with ideas and materials for his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", the ship's captain, Robert FitzRoy, charted the seas and coasts and published his four-volume report of the ship's three voyages in 1839. Edward Forbes's 1854 book, \"Distribution of Marine Life\" argued that no life could exist below around 600 metres (2000 feet). This was proven wrong by the British biologists W. B. Carpenter and C. Wyville Thomson, who in 1868 discovered life in deep water by dredging. Wyville Thompson became chief scientist on the Challenger expedition of 1872–1876, which effectively created the science of oceanography.\n\nOn her journey round the globe, \"HMS Challenger\" discovered about 4,700 new marine species, and made 492 deep sea soundings, 133 bottom dredges, 151 open water trawls and 263 serial water temperature observations. In the southern Atlantic in 1898/1899, Carl Chun on the \"Valdivia\" brought many new life forms to the surface from depths of over . The first observations of deep-sea animals in their natural environment were made in 1930 by William Beebe and Otis Barton who descended to in the spherical steel Bathysphere. This was lowered by cable but by 1960 a self-powered submersible, Trieste developed by Jacques Piccard, took Piccard and Don Walsh to the deepest part of the Earth's oceans, the Mariana Trench in the Pacific, reaching a record depth of about , a feat not repeated until 2012 when James Cameron piloted the Deepsea Challenger to similar depths. An atmospheric diving suit can be worn for deep sea operations, with a new world record being set in 2006 when a US Navy diver descended to in one of these articulated, pressurized suits.\n\nAt great depths, no light penetrates through the water layers from above and the pressure is extreme. For deep sea exploration it is necessary to use specialist vehicles, either remotely operated underwater vehicles with lights and cameras or manned submersibles. The battery-operated Mir submersibles have a three man crew and can descend to 20,000 feet (6,000 m). They have viewing ports, 5,000-watt lights, video equipment and manipulator arms for collecting samples, placing probes or pushing the vehicle across the sea bed when the thrusters would stir up excessive sediment.\n\nBathymetry is the mapping and study of the topography of the ocean floor. Methods used for measuring the depth of the sea include single or multibeam echosounders, laser airborne depth sounders and the calculation of depths from satellite remote sensing data. This information is used for determining the routes of undersea cables and pipelines, for choosing suitable locations for siting oil rigs and offshore wind turbines and for identifying possible new fisheries.\n\nOngoing oceanographic research includes marine lifeforms, conservation, the marine environment, the chemistry of the ocean, the studying and modelling of climate dynamics, the air-sea boundary, weather patterns, ocean resources, renewable energy, waves and currents, and the design and development of new tools and technologies for investigating the deep. Whereas in the 1960s and 1970s research could focus on taxonomy and basic biology, in the 2010s attention has shifted to larger topics such as climate change. Researchers make use of satellite-based remote sensing for surface waters, with research ships, moored observatories and autonomous underwater vehicles to study and monitor all parts of the sea.\n\n\"Freedom of the seas\" is a principle in international law dating from the seventeenth century. It stresses freedom to navigate the oceans and disapproves of war fought in international waters. Today, this concept is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the third version of which came into force in 1994. Article 87(1) states: \"The high seas are open to all states, whether coastal or land-locked.\" Article 87(1) (a) to (f) gives a non-exhaustive list of freedoms including navigation, overflight, the laying of submarine cables, building artificial islands, fishing and scientific research. The safety of shipping is regulated by the International Maritime Organization. Its objectives include developing and maintaining a regulatory framework for shipping, maritime safety, environmental concerns, legal matters, technical co-operation and maritime security.\n\nUNCLOS defines various areas of water. \"Internal waters\" are on the landward side of a baseline and foreign vessels have no right of passage in these. \"Territorial waters\" extend to 12 nautical miles (22 kilometres; 14 miles) from the coastline and in these waters, the coastal state is free to set laws, regulate use and exploit any resource. A \"contiguous zone\" extending a further 12 nautical miles allows for hot pursuit of vessels suspected of infringing laws in four specific areas: customs, taxation, immigration and pollution. An \"exclusive economic zone\" extends for 200 nautical miles (370 kilometres; 230 miles) from the baseline. Within this area, the coastal nation has sole exploitation rights over all natural resources. The \"continental shelf\" is the natural prolongation of the land territory to the continental margin's outer edge, or 200 nautical miles from the coastal state's baseline, whichever is greater. Here the coastal nation has the exclusive right to harvest minerals and also living resources \"attached\" to the seabed.\n\nControl of the sea is important to the security of a maritime nation, and the naval blockade of a port can be used to cut off food and supplies in time of war. Battles have been fought on the sea for more than 3,000 years. In about 1210 B.C., Suppiluliuma II, the king of the Hittites, defeated and burned a fleet from Alashiya (modern Cyprus). In the decisive 480 B.C. Battle of Salamis, the Greek general Themistocles trapped the far larger fleet of the Persian king Xerxes in a narrow channel and attacked vigorously, destroying 200 Persian ships for the loss of 40 Greek vessels. At the end of the Age of Sail, the English navy, led by Horatio Nelson, broke the power of the combined French and Spanish fleets at the 1805 Battle of Trafalgar.\n\nWith steam and the industrial production of steel plate came greatly increased firepower in the shape of the dreadnought battleships armed with long-range guns. In 1905, the Japanese fleet decisively defeated the Russian fleet, which had travelled over , at the Battle of Tsushima. Dreadnoughts fought inconclusively in the First World War at the 1916 Battle of Jutland between the Royal Navy's Grand Fleet and the Imperial German Navy's High Seas Fleet. In the Second World War, the British victory at the 1940 Battle of Taranto showed that naval air power was sufficient to overcome the largest warships, foreshadowing the decisive sea-battles of the Pacific War including the Battles of the Coral Sea, Midway, the Philippine Sea, and the climactic Battle of Leyte Gulf, in all of which the dominant ships were aircraft carriers.\n\nSubmarines became important in naval warfare in World War I, when German submarines, known as U-boats, sank nearly 5,000 Allied merchant ships, including however the RMS Lusitania, so helping to bring the United States into the war. In World War II, almost 3,000 Allied ships were sunk by U-boats attempting to block the flow of supplies to Britain, but the Allies broke the blockade in the Battle of the Atlantic, which lasted the whole length of the war, sinking 783 U-boats. Since 1960, several nations have maintained fleets of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines, vessels equipped to launch ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads from under the sea. Some of these are kept permanently on patrol.\n\nSailing ships or packets carried mail overseas, one of the earliest being the Dutch service to Batavia in the 1670s. These added passenger accommodation, but in cramped conditions. Later, scheduled services were offered but the time journeys took depended much on the weather. When steamships replaced sailing vessels, ocean-going liners took over the task of carrying people. By the beginning of the twentieth century, crossing the Atlantic took about five days and shipping companies competed to own the largest and fastest vessels. The Blue Riband was an unofficial accolade given to the fastest liner crossing the Atlantic in regular service. The \"Mauretania\" held the title with 26.06 knots (48.26 km/h) for twenty years from 1909. The Hales Trophy, another award for the fastest commercial crossing of the Atlantic, was won by the \"United States\" in 1952 for a crossing that took three days, ten hours and forty minutes.\n\nThe great liners were comfortable but expensive in fuel and staff. The age of the trans-Atlantic liners waned as cheap intercontinental flights became available. In 1958, a regular scheduled air service between New York and Paris taking seven hours doomed the Atlantic ferry service to oblivion. One by one the vessels were laid up, some were scrapped, others became cruise ships for the leisure industry and still others floating hotels. The sea is still a route by which boat people travel in small, sometimes unseaworthy craft, often having paid money to people smugglers for their passage. Some may be fleeing persecution but most are economic migrants attempting to reach countries where they believe their prospects are brighter.\n\nMaritime trade has existed for millennia. The Ptolemaic dynasty had developed trade with India using the Red Sea ports and in the first millennium BC the Arabs, Phoenicians, Israelites and Indians traded in luxury goods such as spices, gold, and precious stones. The Phoenicians were noted sea traders and under the Greeks and Romans, commerce continued to thrive. With the collapse of the Roman Empire, European trade dwindled but it continued to flourish among the kingdoms of Africa, the Middle East, India, China and southeastern Asia. From the 16th to the 19th centuries, about 13 million people were shipped across the Atlantic to be sold as slaves in the Americas.\n\nNowadays, large quantities of goods are transported by sea, especially across the Atlantic and around the Pacific Rim. A major trade route passes through the Pillars of Hercules, across the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal to the Indian Ocean and through the Straits of Malacca; much trade also passes through the English Channel. Shipping lanes are the routes on the open sea used by cargo vessels, traditionally making use of trade winds and currents. Over 60 percent of the world's container traffic is conveyed on the top twenty trade routes. Increased melting of Arctic ice since 2007 enables ships to travel the Northwest Passage for some weeks in summertime, avoiding the longer routes via the Suez Canal or the Panama Canal.\nShipping is supplemented by air freight, a more expensive process mostly used for particularly valuable or perishable cargoes. Seaborne trade carries more than US $4 trillion worth of goods each year.\n\nThere are two main kinds of freight, bulk cargo and break bulk or general cargo, most of which is now transported in containers. Commodities in the form of liquids, powder or particles are carried loose in the holds of bulk carriers and include oil, grain, coal, ore, scrap metal, sand and gravel. Break bulk cargo is usually manufactured goods and is transported in packages, often stacked on pallets. Before the arrival of containerization in the 1950s, these goods were loaded, transported and unloaded piecemeal. The use of containers has greatly increased the efficiency and decreased the cost of moving them with most freight now traveling in standard sized, lockable containers loaded on purpose-built container ships at dedicated terminals. Freight forwarding firms book cargo, arrange pickup and delivery, and manage documentation.\n\nFish and other fishery products are among the most important sources of protein and other nutrients that are essential for a balanced diet and good health. In 2009, 16.6% of the world's intake of animal protein and 6.5% of all protein consumed came from fish. In order to fulfill this need, coastal countries have exploited marine resources in their exclusive economic zone, although fishing vessels are increasingly venturing further afield to exploit stocks in international waters. In 2011, the total world production of fish, including aquaculture, was estimated to be 154 million tonnes, of which most was for human consumption. The harvesting of wild fish accounted for 90.4 million tonnes, while annually increasing aquaculture contributes the rest. The north west Pacific is by far the most productive area with 20.9 million tonnes (27 percent of the global marine catch) in 2010. In addition, the number of fishing vessels in 2010 reached 4.36 million, whereas the number of people employed in the primary sector of fish production in the same year amounted to 54.8 million.\n\nModern fishing vessels include fishing trawlers with a small crew, stern trawlers, purse seiners, long-line factory vessels and large factory ships which are designed to stay at sea for weeks, processing and freezing great quantities of fish. The equipment used to capture the fish may be purse seines, other seines, trawls, dredges, gillnets and long-lines and the fish species most frequently targeted are herring, cod, anchovy, tuna, flounder, mullet, squid and salmon. Overexploitation itself has become a serious concern; it does not only cause the depletion of fish stocks, but also substantially reduce the population of predatory fish populations. Myers & Wworm estimated that \"industrialized fisheries typically reduced community biomass by 80% within 15 years of exploitation.\" In order to avoid overexploitation, many countries have introduced quotas in their own waters. However, recovery efforts often entail substantial costs to local economies or food provision. Nonetheless, research published in \"Nature\" in April 2018 found that the aggresive effort of the Indonesian Minister of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia Susi Pudjiastuti to curtail illegal fishing has \"reduced total fishing effort by at least 25%, (...) [potentially] generate a 14% increase in catch and a 12% increase in profit.\" Therefore, the paper concluded that \"many nations can recover their fisheries while avoiding these short-term costs by sharply addressing illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing.\"\nArtisan fishing methods include rod and line, harpoons, skin diving, traps, throw nets and drag nets. Traditional fishing boats are powered by paddle, wind or outboard motors and operate in near-shore waters. The Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging the development of local fisheries to provide food security to coastal communities and help alleviate poverty.\n\nAs well as the wild stock, about 79 million tonnes (78M long tons; 87M short tons) of food and non-food products were produced by aquaculture in 2010, an all time high. About six hundred species of plants and animals were cultured, some for use in seeding wild populations. The animals raised included finfish, aquatic reptiles, crustaceans, molluscs, sea cucumbers, sea urchins, sea squirts and jellyfish. Integrated mariculture has the advantage that there is a readily available supply of planktonic food and waste is removed naturally. Various methods are employed. Mesh enclosures for finfish can be suspended in the open seas, cages can be used in more sheltered waters or ponds can be refreshed with water at each high tide. Shrimps can be reared in shallow ponds connected to the open sea. Ropes can be hung in water to grow algae, oysters and mussels. Oysters can be reared on trays or in mesh tubes. Sea cucumbers can be ranched on the seabed. Captive breeding programmes have raised lobster larvae for release of juveniles into the wild resulting in an increased lobster harvest in Maine. At least 145 species of seaweed – red, green, and brown algae – are eaten worldwide, and some have long been farmed in Japan and other Asian countries; there is great potential for additional algaculture. Few maritime flowering plants are widely used for food but one example is marsh samphire which is eaten both raw and cooked. A major difficulty for aquaculture is the tendency towards monoculture and the associated risk of widespread disease. In the 1990s, disease wiped out China's farmed Farrer's scallop and white shrimp and required their replacement by other species. Aquaculture is also associated with environmental risks; for instance, shrimp farming has caused the destruction of important mangrove forests throughout southeast Asia.\n\nUse of the sea for leisure developed in the nineteenth century, and became a significant industry in the twentieth century. Maritime leisure activities are varied, and include self-organized trips cruising, yachting, powerboat racing and fishing; commercially organized voyages on cruise ships; and trips on smaller vessels for ecotourism such as whale watching and coastal birdwatching.\nHumans enjoy venturing into the sea; children paddle and splash in the shallows and many people take pleasure in bathing and relaxing on the beach. This was not always the case, with sea bathing becoming the vogue in Europe in the 18th century after Dr. William Buchan advocated the practice for health reasons. Surfing is a sport in which a wave is ridden by a surfer, with or without a surfboard. Other marine water sports include kite surfing, where a power kite propels a manned board across the water, windsurfing, where the power is provided by a fixed, manoeuvrable sail and water skiing, where a powerboat is used to pull a skier.\n\nBeneath the surface, freediving is necessarily restricted to shallow descents. Pearl divers have traditionally greased their skins, put cotton in their ears and clips on their noses and dived to with baskets to collect oysters. Human eyes are not adapted for use underwater but vision can be improved by wearing a diving mask. Other useful equipment includes fins and snorkels, and scuba equipment allows underwater breathing and hence a longer time can be spent beneath the surface. The depths that can be reached by divers and the length of time they can stay underwater is limited by the increase of pressure they experience as they descend and the need to prevent decompression sickness as they return to the surface. Recreational divers are advised to restrict themselves to depths of beyond which the danger of nitrogen narcosis increases. Deeper dives can be made with specialised equipment and training.\n\nThe sea offers a very large supply of energy carried by ocean waves, tides, salinity differences, and ocean temperature differences which can be harnessed to generate electricity. Forms of 'green' marine energy include tidal power, marine current power, osmotic power, ocean thermal energy and wave power.\nTidal power uses generators to produce electricity from tidal flows, sometimes by using a dam to store and then release seawater. The Rance barrage, long, near St Malo in Brittany opened in 1967; it generates about 0.5 GW, but it has been followed by few similar schemes.\n\nThe large and highly variable energy of waves gives them enormous destructive capability, making affordable and reliable wave machines problematic to develop. A small 2 MW commercial wave power plant, \"Osprey\", was built in Northern Scotland in 1995 about 300 metres (1000 ft) offshore. It was soon damaged by waves, then destroyed by a storm. Marine current power could provide populated areas close to the sea with a significant part of their energy needs. In principle, it could be harnessed by open-flow turbines; sea bed systems are available, but limited to a depth of about .\n\nOffshore wind power is captured by wind turbines placed out at sea; it has the advantage that wind speeds are higher than on land, though wind farms are more costly to construct offshore. The first offshore wind farm was installed in Denmark in 1991, and the installed capacity of European offshore wind farms reached 3 GW in 2010.\n\nElectricity power stations are often located on the coast or beside an estuary so that the sea can be used as a heat sink. A colder heat sink enables more efficient power generation, which is important for expensive nuclear power plants in particular.\n\nThe seabed contains enormous reserves of minerals which can be exploited by dredging. This has advantages over land-based mining in that equipment can be built at specialised shipyards and infrastructure costs are lower. Disadvantages include problems caused by waves and tides, the tendency for excavations to silt up and the washing away of spoil heaps. There is a risk of coastal erosion and environmental damage.\nSeafloor massive sulphide deposits are potential sources of silver, gold, copper, lead and zinc and trace metals since their discovery in the 1960s. They form when geothermally heated water is emitted from deep sea hydrothermal vents known as \"black smokers\". The ores are of high quality but prohibitively costly to extract. Small scale mining of the deep sea floor is being developed off the coast of Papua New Guinea using robotic techniques, but the obstacles are formidable.\n\nThere are large deposits of petroleum, as oil and natural gas, in rocks beneath the seabed. Offshore platforms and drilling rigs extract the oil or gas and store it for transport to land. Offshore oil and gas production can be difficult due to the remote, harsh environment. Drilling for oil in the sea has environmental impacts. Animals may be disorientated by seismic waves used to locate deposits, probably causing the beaching of whales. Toxic substances such as mercury, lead and arsenic may be released. The infrastructure may cause damage, and oil may be spilt.\n\nLarge quantities of methane clathrate exist on the seabed and in ocean sediment at a temperature of around and these are of interest as a potential energy source. Some estimates put the amount available at between one and 5 million cubic kilometres (0.24 to 1.2 million cubic miles). Also on the seabed are manganese nodules formed of layers of iron, manganese and other hydroxides around a core. In the Pacific these may cover up to 30 percent of the deep ocean floor. The minerals precipitate from seawater and grow very slowly. Their commercial extraction for nickel was investigated in the 1970s but abandoned in favour of more convenient sources. In suitable locations, diamonds are gathered from the seafloor using suction hoses to bring gravel ashore. In deeper waters, mobile seafloor crawlers are used and the deposits are pumped to a vessel above. In Namibia, more diamonds are now collected from marine sources than by conventional methods on land.\nThe sea holds enormous quantities of valuable dissolved minerals. The most important, Salt for table and industrial use has been harvested by solar evaporation from shallow ponds since prehistoric times. Bromine, accumulated after being leached from the land, is economically recovered from the Dead Sea, where it occurs at 55,000 parts per million (ppm).\n\nDesalination is the technique of removing salts from seawater to leave fresh water suitable for drinking or irrigation. The two main processing methods, vacuum distillation and reverse osmosis, use large quantities of energy. Desalination is normally only undertaken where fresh water from other sources is in short supply or energy is plentiful, as in the excess heat generated by power stations. The brine produced as a by-product contains some toxic materials and is returned to the sea.\n\nMany substances enter the sea as a result of human activities. Combustion products are transported in the air and deposited into the sea by precipitation. Industrial outflows and sewage contribute heavy metals, pesticides, PCBs, disinfectants, household cleaning products and other synthetic chemicals. These become concentrated in the surface film and in marine sediment, especially estuarine mud. The result of all this contamination is largely unknown because of the large number of substances involved and the lack of information on their biological effects. The heavy metals of greatest concern are copper, lead, mercury, cadmium and zinc which may be bio-accumulated by marine invertebrates. They are cumulative toxins and are passed up the food chain.\n\nMuch floating plastic rubbish does not biodegrade, instead disintegrating over time and eventually breaking down to the molecular level. Rigid plastics may float for years. In the centre of the Pacific gyre there is a permanent floating accumulation of mostly plastic waste and there is a similar garbage patch in the Atlantic. Foraging sea birds such as the albatross and petrel may mistake debris for food, and accumulate indigestible plastic in their digestive systems. Turtles and whales have been found with plastic bags and fishing line in their stomachs. Microplastics may sink, threatening filter feeders on the seabed.\n\nMost oil pollution in the sea comes from cities and industry. Oil is dangerous for marine animals. It can clog the feathers of sea birds, reducing their insulating effect and the birds' buoyancy, and be ingested when they preen themselves in an attempt to remove the contaminant. Marine mammals are less seriously affected but may be chilled through the removal of their insulation, blinded, dehydrated or poisoned. Benthic invertebrates are swamped when the oil sinks, fish are poisoned and the food chain is disrupted. In the short term, oil spills result in wildlife populations being decreased and unbalanced, leisure activities being affected and the livelihoods of people dependant on the sea being devastated. The marine environment has self-cleansing properties and naturally occurring bacteria will act over time to remove oil from the sea. In the Gulf of Mexico, where oil-eating bacteria are already present, they take only a few days to consume spilt oil.\n\nRun-off of fertilisers from agricultural land is a major source of pollution in some areas and the discharge of raw sewage has a similar effect. The extra nutrients provided by these sources can cause excessive plant growth. Nitrogen is often the limiting factor in marine systems, and with added nitrogen, algal blooms and red tides can lower the oxygen level of the water and kill marine animals. Such events have created dead zones in the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. Some algal blooms are caused by cyanobacteria that make shellfish that filter feed on them toxic, harming animals like sea otters. Nuclear facilities too can pollute. The Irish Sea was contaminated by radioactive caesium-137 from the former Sellafield nuclear fuel processing plant and nuclear accidents may also cause radioactive material to seep into the sea, as did the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in 2011.\n\nThe dumping of waste (including oil, noxious liquids, sewage and garbage) at sea is governed by international law. The London Convention (1972) is a United Nations agreement to control ocean dumping which had been ratified by 89 countries by 8 June 2012. MARPOL 73/78 is a convention to minimize pollution of the seas by ships. By May 2013, 152 maritime nations had ratified MARPOL.\n\nSeveral nomadic indigenous groups in Maritime Southeast Asia live in boats and derive nearly all they need from the sea. The Moken people live on the coasts of Thailand and Burma and islands in the Andaman Sea. The Bajau people are originally from the Sulu Archipelago, Mindanao and northern Borneo. Some Sea Gypsies are accomplished free-divers, able to descend to depths of , though many are adopting a more settled, land-based way of life.\n\nThe indigenous peoples of the Arctic such as the Chukchi, Inuit, Inuvialuit and Yup'iit hunt marine mammals including seals and whales, and the Torres Strait Islanders of Australia include ownership of the Great Barrier Reef among their possessions. They live a traditional life on the islands involving hunting, fishing, gardening and trading with neighbouring peoples in Papua and mainland Aboriginal Australians.\n\nThe sea appears in human culture in contradictory ways, as both powerful but serene and as beautiful but dangerous. It has its place in literature, art, poetry, film, theatre, classical music, mythology and dream interpretation. The Ancients personified it, believing it to be under the control of a being who needed to be appeased, and symbolically, it has been perceived as a hostile environment populated by fantastic creatures; the Leviathan of the Bible, Scylla in Greek mythology, Isonade in Japanese mythology, and the kraken of late Norse mythology. Civilizations have advanced through maritime trade and the exchange of ideas.\nThe sea and ships have been depicted in art ranging from simple drawings on the walls of huts in Lamu to seascapes by Joseph Turner. In Dutch Golden Age painting, artists such as Jan Porcellis, Hendrick Dubbels, Willem van de Velde the Elder and his son, and Ludolf Bakhuizen celebrated the sea and the Dutch navy at the peak of its military prowess. The Japanese artist Katsushika Hokusai created colour prints of the moods of the sea, including \"The Great Wave off Kanagawa\".\n\nMusic too has been inspired by the ocean, sometimes by composers who lived or worked near the shore and saw its many different aspects. Sea shanties, songs that were chanted by mariners to help them perform arduous tasks, have been woven into compositions and impressions in music have been created of calm waters, crashing waves and storms at sea. Classical sea-related music includes Richard Wagner's \"The Flying Dutchman\", Claude Debussy's \"La mer\" (1903–05), Charles Villiers Stanford's \"Songs of the Sea\" (1904) and \"Songs of the Fleet\" (1910), Edward Elgar's \"Sea Pictures\" (1899) and Ralph Vaughan Williams' \"A Sea Symphony\" (1903–1909).\n\nAs a symbol, the sea has for centuries played a role in literature, poetry and dreams. Sometimes it is there just as a gentle background but often it introduces such themes as storm, shipwreck, battle, hardship, disaster, the dashing of hopes and death. In his epic poem the \"Odyssey\", written in the 8th century BC, Homer describes the ten-year voyage of the Greek hero Odysseus who struggles to return home across the sea's many hazards after the war described in the \"Iliad\". The sea is a recurring theme in the Haiku poems of the Japanese Edo period poet Matsuo Bashō (松尾 芭蕉) (1644–1694). In modern literature, sea-inspired novels have been written by Joseph Conrad — drawn from his experience at sea, Herman Wouk, and Herman Melville. In the works of psychiatrist Carl Jung, the sea symbolizes the personal and the collective unconscious in dream interpretation, the depths of the sea symbolizing the depths of the unconscious mind. Although the origin of life on Earth is still a matter of debate, scientist and writer Rachel Carson, in her award-winning 1951 book \"The Sea Around Us\", wrote, \"It is a curious situation that the sea, from which life first arose, should now be threatened by the activities of one form of that life. But the sea, though changed in a sinister way, will continue to exist: the threat is rather to life itself\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "877182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877182", "title": "Shirvan", "text": "Shirvan\n\nShirvan (from ; ; Tat: \"Şirvan\"), also spelled as Sharvān, Shirwan, Shervan, Sherwan and Šervān, is a historical region in the eastern Caucasus, known by this name in both Islamic and modern times. Today, the region is an industrially and agriculturally developed part of the Azerbaijan Republic that stretches between the western shores of the Caspian Sea and the Kura River and is centered on the Shirvan Plain.\n\nVladimir Minorsky believes that names such as Sharvān (Shirwān), Lāyzān and Baylaqān are Iranian names from the Iranian languages of the coast of the Caspian Sea.\n\nThere are several explanations about this name:\n\nHowever, Said Nafisi points out that according to Khaqani's poems, where Khaqani contrasts his home town with kheyrvān (), the original and correct pronunciation of the name was Sharvān. So all etymologies relating this name to sher/shir (lion in Persian and Kurdish) or Anushiravan are most probably folk etymology and not based on historical facts. The form Shervān or Shirvān are from later centuries. According to the Encyclopedia of Islam, Shirwan proper comprised the easternmost spurs of the Caucasus range and the lands which sloped down from these mountains to the banks of the Kur river. But its rulers strove continuously to control also the western shores of the Caspian Sea from Ḳuba (the modern town of Quba) in the district of Maskat in the north, to Baku in the south. To the north of all these lands lay Bab al-Abwab or Derbend, and to the west, beyond the modern Goychay, the region of Shaki. In mediaeval Islamic times, and apparently in pre-Islamic Sāsānid ones also, Shirwan included the district of Layzan, which probably corresponds to modern Lahidj, often ruled as a separate fief by a collateral branch of the Yazidi Shirwan Shahs.\"\n\nThe 19th century native historian and writer Abbasgulu Bakikhanov defines it as: \"The country of Shirvan to the east borders on the Caspian Sea, and to the south on the river Kur, which separates it from the provinces of Moghan and Armenia\".\n\nShirvanshah also spelled as Shīrwān Shāh or Sharwān Shāh, was the title in medieval Islamic times of a Persianized dynasty of Arabic origin. They ruled the area independently or as a vassal of larger empires from 800 A.D. up to 1607 A.D. when Safavid rule became firmly established.\n\nWhen the Shirvanshah Shah dynasty was ended by the Safavid Shah Tahmasp I, Shirwan formed a province of the Safavids and was usually governed by a Khan, who is often called Beylerbey. Shirvan was taken by the Ottomans in 1578; however, Safavid rule was restored by 1607. In 1722, during the Russo-Persian War (1722-1723), the Khan of Quba, Husayn Ali, submitted to Peter the Great and was accepted as his dignitary. The Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1723) forced the Iranian king to recognise the Russian annexation. By the treaty between the Russian and Ottoman Empires in the year 1724, the coast of the territory of Baku, which was occupied by the Russians, was separated from the rest of Shirvan, which was left to the Ottomans. It was only when Nader Shah defeated the Ottomans (1735) that the Russians ceded back the coastal land and the other areas in the North and South Caucasus as conquered in 1722-1723 from Safavid Iran conform the Treaties of Resht and Ganja, and the area became part of the Afsharid Empire, by which century long Iranian rule was restored.\n\nWhen the Qajars had succeeded in restoring the unity of Persia, the sons of the Khan were no more able to maintain their independence like the other Caucasian chiefs and had to choose between Russia and Persia. The Khan of Shirwan, Mustafa, who had already entered into negotiations with Zubov, submitted to the Russians in 1805, who occupied the Persian cities of Derbend and Baku the next year (1806) during the Russo-Persian War (1804-1813), but soon afterwards he made overtures to the Persians and sought help from them. By the Treaty of Gulistan (12/24 October 1813) following the end of the 1804-1813 war, Persia was forced to cede its territories and regions comprising Darband, Quba, Shirwan and Baku, while giving up all claims on them as well. Nevertheless, Mustafa continued to have secret dealings with Persia. It was not until 1820 that his territory was occupied by Russian troops; the Khan fled to Persia and Shemakha was irrevocably incorporated in Russian territory. Iranian anger while being dissatisfied with losing swaths of its integral territories in the North and South Caucasus subsequently sparked the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828), which resulted in another Iranian loss, as well as the ceding of its last remaining territories in the Caucasus comprising what is now Armenia, and southern parts of the contemporary Republic of Azerbaijan. The Treaty of Turkmenchay of 1828 officially ratified the forced ceding of these Iranian territories to Imperial Russia, while it would also mark the official end of millennia long intertwined Iranian hegemony, rule, and influence over the Caucasus region, including Shirvan.\n\nThe term Shirvani/Shirvanli is still in use in Azerbaijan to designate the people of Shirvan region, as it was historically. Since ancient time, the bulk population of Shirvan were Caucasian speaking groups. Later on Iranization of this native population and subsequent Turkification since the Seljuq era occurred. The bulk of the population today are Turkic-speaking Azerbaijanis, although there are also smaller Caucasian speaking and Iranian speaking minorities.\n\nThe original population were Paleo-Caucasians and spoke Caucasian languages, like the Caucasian Albanians. Today, other Daghestani Caucasian languages such as Udi, Lezgian and Avar are still spoken in the region.\n\nIranian penetration started since the Achaemenid era and continued in the Parthian era. However it was during the Sassanid era that the influence really increased and Persian colonies were set up in the region. According to Vladimir Minorsky: \"The presence of Iranian settlers in Transcaucasia, and especially in the proximity of the passes, must have played an important role in absorbing and pushing back the aboriginal inhabitants. Such names as Sharvan, Layzan, Baylaqan, etc., suggest that the Iranian immigration proceeded chiefly from Gilan and other regions on the southern coast of the Caspian\". Abu al-Hasan Ali ibn al-Husayn Al-Masudi (896–956), the Arab historian states Persian presence in Aran, Bayleqan, Darband, Shabaran, Masqat and Jorjan. From 9th century, the urban population of Shirwan increasingly moved to Persian language, while the rural population seems to mostly have retained their old Caucasian languages. Up to the nineteenth century, there was still a large number of Tat population (who claim to be descendants of Sassanid era Persian settlers), however due to similar culture and religion with Turkic-speaking Azerbaijanis, this population was partly assimilated.\n\nTurkic penetration in the region started in the Khazar era, however there are no unambiguous references to settlements. The Turkification of the region started in the Seljuq era, although the area in parallel maintained its Persian culture under the Persianized Shirvanshah until the Safavid era. From the Safavid era onwards, the Turkification of the region accelerated with new wave of Turkoman settlements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32537722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32537722", "title": "Steam mill", "text": "Steam mill\n\nA steam mill is a type of grinding mill using a stationary steam engine to power its mechanism.\n\nFor Karl Marx, what defined feudalism was that the power of the ruling class (the aristocracy) rested on their control of arable land, leading to a class society based upon the exploitation of the peasants who farm these lands, typically under serfdom. Some interpret Marx as advocating technological determinism, with such statements as \"The windmill gives you society with the feudal lord: the steam-mill, society with the industrial capitalist\", but others argue that he was not.\n\n"}
{"id": "6219186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6219186", "title": "Terry Slater (geographer)", "text": "Terry Slater (geographer)\n\nCanon Doctor Terry Slater is an honorary senior research fellow in Historical Geography at the University of Birmingham, UK. Born in Bromley but raised in Charlton he was educated at Hull University, University College, London and the University of Birmingham.\n\nHe joined the University of Birmingham as a lecturer in 1971 and continued until retirement. He devoted a lot of his spare time to the Church of England in Birmingham that led to him being made an honorary Lay Canon of St Philip's Cathedral, Birmingham in 2005.\n\nDr. Slater's research interests include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1085993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1085993", "title": "Theban Mapping Project", "text": "Theban Mapping Project\n\nThe Theban Mapping Project is an archaeological expedition devoted to Ancient Egypt. It was established in 1978 by the Egyptologist Dr. Kent R. Weeks at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1985, it was moved to the American University in Cairo, where it continues to be based. The Project's original goal was to create an archaeological map of the Valley of the Kings, and that was published as the \"Atlas of the Valley of the Kings\" in 2000. It now also appears online at www.Thebanmappingproject.com, where it was updated annually. The web site has not published an update in years and no longer responds to email. Since 2001, the Project has also developed a management plan for the Valley of the Kings, which is funded by the World Monuments Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38770459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38770459", "title": "Timeline of Bogotá", "text": "Timeline of Bogotá\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the city of Bogotá, Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther cities in Colombia:\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Spanish language Wikipedia\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17191332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17191332", "title": "Vegetation and slope stability", "text": "Vegetation and slope stability\n\nVegetation and slope stability are interrelated by the ability of the plant life growing on slopes to both promote and hinder the stability of the slope. The relationship is a complex combination of the type of soil, the rainfall regime, the plant species present, the slope aspect, and the steepness of the slope. Knowledge of the underlying slope stability as a function of the soil type, its age, horizon development, compaction, and other impacts is a major underlying aspect of understanding how vegetation can alter the stability of the slope. There are four major ways in which vegetation influences slope stability: wind throwing, the removal of water, mass of vegetation (surcharge), and mechanical reinforcement of roots.\n\nWind throw is the toppling of a tree due to the force of the wind, this exposes the root plate and adjacent soil beneath the tree and influences slope stability. Wind throw is factor when considering one tree on a slope, however it is of lesser importance when considering general slope stability for a body of trees as the wind forces involved represent a smaller percentage of the potential disturbing forces and the trees which are in the centre of the group will be sheltered by those on the outside.\n\nVegetation influences slope stability by removing water through transpiration. Transpiration is the vaporisation of liquid water contained in plant tissue and the vapour removal to the air. Water is drawn up from the roots and transported through the plant up to the leaves. \nThe major effect of transpiration is the reduction of soil pore water pressures which counteracts the loss of strength which occurs through wetting, this is most readily seen as a loss of moisture around trees. However it is not easy to rely on tree and shrub roots to remove water from slopes and consequently help ensure slope stability. The ability to transpire in wet conditions is severely reduced and therefore any increase in soil strength previously gained in evaporation and transpiration will be lost or significantly reduced, consequently the effects of transpiration cannot be taken into account at these times. However it can be assumed that the chance of slope failure following saturation by storm event or periods of extended rainfall will be lessened as a result of transpiration. Moreover, although changes in moisture content will affect the undrained shear strength, the effective shear stress parameters as commonly used in routine slope stability analysis are not directly influenced by changing moisture content, although the water pressures (suctions) used in the analysis will change.\n\nIt is important to note that desiccation cracks can potentially be extended by vegetation in dry weather promoting the deeper penetration of water to a potential slip plane and increased water pressure into the soil during the wet periods. Nevertheless, these cracks will be filled by roots growing deeper into the soil as they follow the path of least resistance.\n\nStudies in Malaysia have shown that there is a significant relationship between root length density, soil water content and ultimately slope stability. Slopes that had high root density (due to dense vegetation on the surface) were less likely to undergo slope failure. This is because a high root length density results in low soil water content which in turn results in an increase in shear strength and a decrease in soil permeability. It is suggested that root length density and soil water level could be used as indicators of slope stability and possibly could be used to predict future slope failure.\n\nTranspiration is accentuated when the vegetation has an extensive root system and rapid transpiration continues throughout winter.\n\nThe removal of water is also affected by the shading provided by vegetation. Shading helps prevent the desiccation of the soils which results in shrinkage and cracking allowing the deep penetration of rain water. Plants need to have a high leaf to root ratio and have the ability to persist through hot summer months in order to provide effective shading of the soils.\n\nThe mass of vegetation is only likely to have an influence on slope stability when larger trees are growing on the slope. A tree of 30–50m height is likely to have a loading of approximately 100–150 kN/m2. The larger trees should be planted at the toe of the slope with a potential rotational failure as this could increase the factor of safety by 10%. However, if the tree is planted at the top of the slope this could reduce the factor of safety by 10%. A suggested design vegetation envelope which shows which type of plant should be grown at each level of the slope.\n\nEach slope stability situation should be considered independently for the vegetation involved. It is important to remember that transpiration will reduce the weight of the slope as moisture is lost. This can be significant on slopes of marginal stability.\n\nIf larger trees are removed from the toe area of a slope there will be both a reduction in soil strength due to the loss of evapotranspiration effects and a reduction in applied loading which may result in temporary suctions in clay soils which could lead to softening as the available water is drawn in to compensate for the suction forces. This is similar to the recognised softening of overconsolidated clays due to the relaxation of overburden pressures when placed in the top layers of an embankment from deep cutting.\n\nRoots reinforce the soil through growing across failure planes, root columns acting as piles, and through limiting surface erosion.\n\nWhen roots grows across the plane of potential failure there is an increase in shear strength by binding particles. The roots anchor the unstable surficial soil into the deeper stable layers or bedrock. This most readily occurs when there is rapid deep growth (1.5m deep) of roots which last for more than two years. However it is important to note that the strength exerted by roots generally only extends down to 1m while most failures occur between 1.2 – 1.5m soil depth.\n\nThe root reinforced earth root model is the result of the root elongation across a potential slip plane which produces a tensile root force which is transferred to the soil by cohesive and frictional contacts between the root and the soil.\n\nThe pull out resistance of a root is the measured resistance of root structure to be pulled out of the ground and is likely to be only a little less than the measured tensile strength of the root which is the roots resistance to breaking as measured in the laboratory. In the cases where there is no pull out data available the tensile strength data maybe used as a rough guide to the maximum pull out resistance available.\n\nThe tensile root strength of a range of diameters over a range of species has been tested in the laboratory and has been found to be approximately 5 – 60MN/m2. In order for the root to actually enhance slope stability the root must have sufficient embedment and adhesion with the soil. The way that roots interact with the soil is intricate but for engineering purposes the available force contributions may be measured with in situ pull out tests.\n\nThe root length and the type of root branching effects the way that root failure occurs Three different modes of failure have been identified in hawthorn roots which relate to the root soil relationship which is shown in the shape of the roots and the shape of the failure curve. Roots which have no branches tend to fail in tension and pull straight out of the ground with minimal resistance. Roots which have multiple branches generally fail in stages as each branch breaks inside the soil. These roots can then separated into two different groups; 1) those that initially reach their maximum peak force and then maintain a high force that progressively decreases as the root branches fail after significant strain and 2) those that break with increasingly applied force. In a number of tests considerable adhesion between a segment of the root and the soil can be measured prior to the root eventually slipping out of the soil mass.\n\nRoots that do not have branches generally fail in tension and pull straight out of the ground with only minimal resistance. The root reaches its maximum pullout resistance then rapidly fails at a weak point. The root easily slips out of the soil due to the gradual tapering (progressive decrease in root diameter along its length) which means that as the root is pulled out it is moving through a space that is larger than its diameter which consequently has no further bonds or interaction with the surrounding soil.\n\nType B failure occurs when branched roots initially reach their maximum peak resistance then sustain a high resistance which slowly reduces as the branches of the roots fail after significant strain. In some tests considerable adhesion between a section of the root and the soil mass can be measured before the root eventually slips out. Forked roots require a greater force to be pulled out as the cavity above the fork is thinner than the root which is trying to move through the cavity, this can then result in deformation of the soil as the root moves through the soil.\n\nRoots that have multiple branches or forked branches also can undergo tensile failure but predominantly fail in stages as each branch breaks within the soil. These roots break with increasingly applied force in stages in the form of stepped peaks corresponding to the progressive breaking of roots of greater diameters. The root progressively releases its bonds with the soil until final tensile failure.\n\nIn some cases when the root has a sinusoidal shape with many small rootlets along its length the root reaches its maximum pull out resistance on straightening and then breaks at the weakest point, however at this point the root is not pulled out of the soil as it adheres and interacts with the soil producing a residual strength. If pulling was stopped at this point, the root would give increased strength to the soil. However, if the root is completely pulled out of the ground then there is no further interaction with soil and therefore no increase in soil strength is provided.\n\nStudies have shown that the pull out resistance of hawthorn and oak roots are affected by intra species differences, inter-species variations and root size (diameter) in a similar as way as root tensile strength varies (as measured in the laboratory). In the pull out test the applied force acting on the root acts across a larger root area, which involves multiple branches, longer lengths) than the short (approximately 150mm) length of root used in tensile strength tests. In pull out test the root is likely to fail at weak points such as branching points, nodes or damaged areas.\n\nThe studies also showed that there is a positive correlation between maximum root pull out resistance and root diameter for hawthorn and oat root. Smaller diameter roots had a lower pull out resistance or breaking force than the larger diameter roots.\n\nTrees and root columns can prevent shallow mass movement through acting as piles when there is buttressing and soil arching through a woody deep root system which has multiple sinker roots with embedded stems and laterals.\n\nVegetation can also be used to control water erosion by limiting surface processes such as sheet wash and overland flow. Vegetation can provide a considerable contribution to the stability of slope through enhancing soil cohesion. This cohesion is dependent upon the morphological characteristics of root systems and the tensile strength of single roots.\n\nThere is considerable evidence of fine roots resisting surface erosion. The role of fine roots in general slope stability is not fully understood. It is thought that the fine roots help keep the surface soil together and prevent surface erosion. The fine root network may have an apparent enhanced cohesion which is comparable to geosynthetic mesh elements. The limitation of surface erosion processes is particularly apparent in areas of shrub and grass where the fine root distribution is consistent and clearly defined, however cohesion is generally limited to the top 1m of soil.\n\nSources\n"}
