{"id": "3757537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3757537", "title": "A Taste of Freedom", "text": "A Taste of Freedom\n\n\"A Taste of Freedom\" is the fifth episode in the fourth season of the American animated television series \"Futurama\". It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on December 22, 2002. The episode was directed by James Purdum and written by Eric Horsted. The plot centers on Zoidberg's experience with the concept of freedom on Earth.\n\nThe crew celebrates Freedom Day, a day where one can do anything they want, regardless of the consequences. Dr. Zoidberg seems passionate about the holiday, as he loves the idea of freedom, something he did not have on his home planet Decapod 10. At the big Freedom Day celebration in Washington, D.C., Earth President Richard Nixon's head unveils the Earth flag \"Old Freebie\" to celebrate the spirit of the holiday but the flag is eaten by Zoidberg. Zoidberg feels this is an expression of his freedom on Freedom Day; however, the rest of the crowd sees him as a traitor. Zoidberg is chased around town and takes cover in his planet's embassy.\n\nZoidberg is put on trial and the crew hires lawyer Old Man Waterfall to represent him. Zoidberg is found guilty and sentenced to death when he refuses to apologize publicly. After Earth's army storms the Decapodian embassy to seize Zoidberg, the Decapodian ambassador to Earth summons the Decapodian military to retaliate. The Decapodian army easily defeats Earth's defense forces and Earth is enslaved by the crustacean extraterrestrials.\n\nLater, Fry, Bender, Leela, Zapp Brannigan, and Kif, deciding the time has come to fight back, steal a heat-seeking missile from a museum exhibit and launch it toward the Decopodians’ newly constructed Mobile Oppression Palace. However, the palace is \"cold-blooded\", like the Decapodians themselves, and the palace continues its destructive rampage. It eventually crushes Old Man Waterfall for standing in its way, whom Zoidberg respected for defending him when no one else would. Zoidberg then lights a flag on fire. This shocks and angers the other citizens, but Zoidberg explains that he does so in order to preserve the freedom that the flag represents and throws it toward the Mobile Oppression Palace, attracting the missile and thus destroying the palace. Zoidberg is declared a hero and is honored by Nixon at a ceremony, where he unveils a new Earth flag, out of which Zoidberg is allowed to take a bite. Zoidberg concludes that Earth, not Decapod 10, is now his true home planet.\n\n\"The A.V. Club\"s Zack Handlen gave the episode a B+, saying: \"There’s a fundamental shallowness to “A Taste Of Freedom” which is at once useful for the comedy (because delving into the issues never distracts from the jokes), and disappointing in the story. The episode takes the most predictable stance on its premise--eating the flag is not something you should be arrested for--and then doesn’t offer much variation outside of a series of escalating incidents. That makes for a diverting half hour that occasionally stabs at legitimate criticism, but one that’s ultimately more forgettable than its various absurdities would suggest.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2696625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696625", "title": "Amendments to the Constitution of Canada", "text": "Amendments to the Constitution of Canada\n\nAmendments to the Constitution of Canada are changes to the Constitution of Canada.\n\nBefore 1982, modifying the Constitution of Canada primarily meant amending the British North America Act, 1867. Unlike most constitutions, however, this Act had no amending formula: instead changes were enacted through Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (or \"Imperial Parliament\") called the British North America Acts.\n\nOther Commonwealth countries had taken over the authority for constitutional amendment after the Statute of Westminster 1931, but at the time, Canada decided to allow the Parliament of the United Kingdom to \"temporarily\" retain the power. With the Constitution Act 1982, Canada took over the authority to amend its own constitution, achieving full sovereignty.\n\nBetween 1931 and 1982, the federal government, on behalf of the House of Commons of Canada and the Senate, would issue an address to the British government requesting an amendment. The request would include a resolution containing the desired amendments. These in turn, were always passed by the British Parliament, with little or no debate.\n\nAs part of the patriation of the Constitution in 1982 an amending formula was adopted in sections 38 to 49 of the Constitution Act, 1982.\n\nMost amendments can be passed only if identical resolutions are adopted by the House of Commons, the Senate and two thirds or more of the provincial legislative assemblies representing at least 50 percent of the national population. This formula, which is outlined in section 38 of the Constitution Act, 1982, is officially referred to as the \"general amendment procedure\" and is known colloquially as the \"7+50 formula\".\n\nOnce the procedure for the adoption of the amendment is followed successfully, the amendment is formalized as a proclamation of the Governor General in Council. Officially, therefore, the Constitution is amended by Proclamation, and the issue of the Proclamation requires prior approval by resolutions of the House of Commons, the Senate, and the necessary number of provincial legislative assemblies.\n\nThe following matters are reserved to the s. 38 procedure, by virtue of s. 42:\n\nIf a constitutional amendment affects only one province, however, only the assent of Parliament and of that province's legislature is required. Seven of the eleven amendments passed so far have been of this nature, four being passed by and for Newfoundland and Labrador, one for New Brunswick, one for Prince Edward Island, and one for Quebec. This formula is contained in section 43 of the Constitution Act, 1982.\n\nThere are some parts of the Constitution that can be modified only with the unanimous consent of \"all\" the provinces plus the two Houses of Parliament. This formula is contained in section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982, and is known as the \"unanimity formula\". It is reserved for the following matters:\n\nNo specific mention is made in the procedure for amendments affecting what falls within the federal/provincial distribution of powers. Therefore, they can be dealt with generally under s. 38, or with respect to specific provinces under s. 43. However, a s. 38 amendment in that regard will not apply to a province that has passed a resolution of dissent from it, and s. 40 states that a s. 38 amendment that transfers provincial jurisdiction over an education or cultural matter to Parliament must be accompanied by reasonable compensation by Canada to the provinces.\n\nThere has been a debate among legal scholars as to whether the Supreme Court of Canada is entrenched in the Constitution of Canada. The Supreme Court of Canada was not created by the constitution, rather the power to create a \"Court of General Appeal for Canada\" was granted to Parliament by s. 101 of the British North America Act, 1867. Parliament proceeded to create the Supreme Court of Canada under the authority of s. 101 in 1875 by passing the Supreme Court Act, which was an ordinary piece of legislation with no constitutional significance at the time.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada was mentioned for the first time in a constitutional document by the Constitution Act, 1982. The Supreme Court is referred to twice. First, s. 41 lists several amendments to the Constitution of Canada requiring unanimous consent. S. 41(d) includes the \"composition of the Supreme Court of Canada\" in this list. Second, s. 42(1) lists several amendments to the Constitution of Canada requiring the general amendment procedure. S. 42(1)(d) includes \"subject to s. 41(d), the Supreme Court of Canada\" in this list. Sections 41 and 42 of the Constitution Act, 1982, thus appear to include the Supreme Court of Canada in the Constitution of Canada. However, this conclusion is questionable because the \"Constitution of Canada\" is expressly defined in s. 52(2) as a set of thirty instruments that does not include the Supreme Court Act. Some scholars, including Peter Hogg, have suggested that the references to the Supreme Court of Canada in sections 41 and 42 are ineffective. They argue that these references are \"anticipatory\" and will become effective only if Parliament adds the Supreme Court Act to the list in s. 52(2). Other scholars, including Professor Cheffins, have argued that the Supreme Court Act is implied as entrenched into s. 52(2) because of sections 41 and 42. S. 52(2) uses the words \"includes ...\" to introduce the list of thirty instruments, suggesting that the provision does not contain an exhaustive list. The Supreme Court itself has confirmed in New Brunswick Broadcasting Co. v. Nova Scotia (Speaker of the House of Assembly), [1993] 1 S.C.R. 319 that s. 52(2) is not exhaustive, but has not yet ruled on whether the Supreme Court Act is included in the Constitution of Canada.\n\nThis issue has implications for judicial selection in Canada. S. 4(2) of the Supreme Court Act specifies that the Governor in Council (federal cabinet) has the power to appoint judges to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister Stephen Harper has announced that a new reformed selection process will be developed. If the new process binds the federal government, it will necessarily involve an amendment to s. 4(2) of the Supreme Court Act. If the Act is \"constitutionalized,\" this would require a constitutional amendment under the general amendment procedure, a significant hurdle requiring provincial cooperation. If the Act is not constitutionalized, Parliament can simply amend the legislation by a majority vote.\n\nThis issue arose again in connection with Private Member's Bill C-232, passed by the House of Commons in March 2010. The Bill would have amended the Supreme Court Act to require all future appointees to the court to be able to understand both French and English without the assistance of an interpreter. If the Supreme Court Act is considered part of the Constitution, this change would require a constitutional amendment. Bill C-323 died on the table when Parliament was dissolved for the May election.\n\nIn Reference re Supreme Court Act, ss. 5 and 6 2014 SCC 21, a majority of the Supreme Court rule that clauses concerning the appointment of Justices from Quebec are entrenched.\n\nAmending the Canadian Constitution is a topic of great debate in Canada. There seems to be general agreement among provincial governments that some parts of the Constitution need to be amended to deal with long-standing demands from many provinces. There are demands by western provinces for a greater share of power at the federal level, and demands from Quebec for greater protection for its status as a \"distinct society\". Quebec, in particular, has not formally agreed to the Constitution Act, 1982, although this does not have affect on the legal applicability of the Act.\n\nNevertheless, agreement on details of amendments has been elusive. Further complicating attempts to amend the Constitution is the complexity of the procedure for doing so, which in most cases requires approval from both the federal parliament and two-thirds of the provincial governments representing at least 50 per cent of the population, and in some cases require the approval of the federal government and all ten provincial governments.\n\nThe 1987 Meech Lake Accord, a package of constitutional amendments, intended to address Quebec's objections to the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", failed in 1990 when it was not ratified by all ten provincial governments. The last attempt at a comprehensive package of constitutional amendments was the Charlottetown Accord, which arose out of the failure of the Meech Lake Accord. The Charlottetown Accord was defeated in a national referendum in 1992.\n\nThere have been several relatively minor amendments to the Constitution since it was patriated in 1982 including amendments dealing with provincial schooling in Newfoundland and Quebec and the changing of the name of Newfoundland to Newfoundland and Labrador (see below).\n\nAlthough the amending formula has not been formally altered, the Canadian government under Prime Minister Jean Chrétien after the 1995 Quebec referendum recognized regional vetoes over proposed amendments, held by the provinces of Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia, and by the regions the Prairies (Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba) and the Atlantic (New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Labrador, and Prince Edward Island).\n\nIn addition to the amendment listed in the following table, many important changes were made to the constitutional structure of Canada by adding entire extra documents to the Constitution. These include orders that added provinces to Canada, such as the \"British Columbia Terms of Union\" and documents that altered the structure of the government of Canada, such as the \"Parliament of Canada Act, 1875\". For a complete list of documents added to the Constitution before 1982, see List of Canadian constitutional documents.\n\nAmending the Constitution has been a topic of much debate in contemporary Canada, and the two most comprehensive attempts to revise the document have both been defeated. There have, however, been eleven minor amendments to the Constitution since it was patriated in 1982. Most of these amendments have been limited in scope, dealing only with matters affecting specific provinces.\n\nAttempts to enact major amendments:\n\nVarious provisions of the Canadian Constitution are subject to the \"notwithstanding clause\", which is Section Thirty-three of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. This section authorizes governments to temporarily override the rights and freedoms in sections 2 and 7–15 for up to five years, subject to renewal. The Canadian federal government has never invoked it, although provincial governments have done so.\n\nThe notwithstanding clause was invoked routinely, between 1982 and 1985, by the province of Quebec (which did not support the enactment of the Charter but is subject to it nonetheless). The provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta have also invoked the notwithstanding clause, to end a strike and to protect an exclusively heterosexual definition of marriage, respectively. (Note that Alberta's use of the notwithstanding clause is of no force or effect, since the definition of marriage is federal not provincial jurisdiction.) The territory of Yukon also passed legislation once that invoked the notwithstanding clause, but the legislation was never proclaimed in force.\n"}
{"id": "44582860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44582860", "title": "Anchor defendant", "text": "Anchor defendant\n\nIn law, an anchor defendant is a person who is made a defendant to a claim for the primary purpose of vesting jurisdiction to hear the claim in a certain court. Usually the purpose of the anchor defendant is to allow claims to be brought in a certain court against another defendant (not the anchor defendant) over whom the relevant court would not otherwise have jurisdiction. Accordingly, use of anchor defendants is often a variation of forum shopping.\n\nThe reference to an anchor is metaphorical; \"anchoring\" the proceedings to the relevant jurisdiction where they might otherwise naturally drift to another court.\n\nThe use of anchor defendants as a litigation strategy relies upon two basic principles common to most legal systems. The first is that where a cause of action involves claims against multiple parties, it is convenient for all of those claims to be tried together to avoid the risk of inconsistent results. The second is that courts in different jurisdictions should seek to avoid holding concurrent trials relating to the same claims (this is usually referred to as the doctrine of \"lis alibi pendens\"), both the avoid the risk of inconsistent results and to avoid defendants having to respond to the same claims in different courts.\n\nAccordingly, whilst there is a general recognition that courts should only entertain actions against defendants over whom they have jurisdiction, most systems will expand this to include another defendant who is a necessary and property to a claim where there is proper jurisdiction over one of the defendants.\n\nFor example, with the European Union, Article 6 of the Brussels I Regulation provides:\n\nSimilarly, the English Civil Procedure Rules provide in RSC Order 11 (found in Schedule 1):\n\nAs with other types of forum shopping, the courts in various jurisdictions have taken steps to try and prevent the abuse of court system by using anchor defendants. However, attempts to do so will always be limited by the powerful countervailing considerations of the need to ensure that all connected actions should be tried by a single court where ever possible.\n\nFor example, in \"Sharples v Eason & Son\" it was held that leave ought not be given to serve a claim outside of the jurisdiction if the sole, or predominant, reason for beginning the action a party duly served within the jurisdiction is to enable an application to be made to serve parties outside of the jurisdiction.\n\nFurthermore, even where the use of an anchor defendant successfully vests the jurisdiction to try an action against a foreign defendant in a court, the court will often have a general residual discretion to stay the proceedings on the basis that it is not the most appropriate court to try the case (the doctrine of \"forum non conveniens\").\n\nIn \"AK Investment CJSC v Kyrgyz Mobil Tel Ltd\" Lord Collins gave the opinion of the Privy Council summarising the applicable principles of common law in relation to determining whether it was proper to grant leave to serve proceedings on a foreign defendant who the court would not otherwise have jurisdiction over after the action had been originally commenced against an anchor defendant:\n\nLord Collins subsequently endorsed his own decision on those points in \"Nilon Limited v Royal Westminster Investments S.A.\".\n\nIn \"Multinational Gas and Petrochemical Co v Multinational Gas and Petrochemical Services Ltd\" the liquidators of an insolvent company incorporated in Liberia wished to bring claims against the company directors in England for breach of duty and negligence. However, none of the directors were resident in Britain and none of the actions complained of had occurred within the United Kingdom. Accordingly, the liquidators brought a claim against the company's brokers (which was an affiliated company incorporated in England) alleging negligence. The claimant company then sought to join the former directors claiming they had been negligent in reviewing the advice provided by the brokers, and that the directors were a necessary and proper party to the action. The English Court of Appeal held that the only basis for bringing proceedings against the broker was to try and bring the former directors within the jurisdiction of the court, and for this and other reasons they refused to grant leave to serve the writ outside of the jurisdiction on the directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "4844632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844632", "title": "Board of supervisors", "text": "Board of supervisors\n\nA board of supervisors is a governing body that oversees the operation of county government in the American states of Arizona, California, Iowa, Mississippi, Virginia, and Wisconsin, as well as 16 counties in New York. There are equivalent agencies in other states. \n\nSimilar to a city council, a board of supervisors has legislative, executive, and quasi-judicial powers. The important difference is that a county is an administrative division of a state, whereas a city is a municipal corporation; thus, counties implement and, as necessary, refine the local application of state law and public policy, while cities produce and implement their own local laws and public policy (subject to the overriding authority of state law). \n\nBoards may pass and repeal laws, generally called \"ordinances\". Depending on the state, and the subject matter of the law, these laws may apply to the entire county or to only unincorporated areas not within the jurisdiction of a city. The board is also responsible for approving the county budget. County governments may collect state taxes and, in some states, they may also levy taxes, such as property or sales tax.\n\nIn some states, including Michigan, and in some New York counties until recently, county governing boards were composed of township (Michigan) or town (New York) \"supervisors\". These are the chief elected officials of each civil township. Boards of Supervisors were originally composed of the various town/township supervisors from across the county. This system gave every township one vote on the county board regardless of its population, resulting in less populous townships having influence in decision-making that was disproportionate to their populations.\n\nBoth Michigan and New York changed how they elected county boards by dividing counties into single member districts, drawn so that each district has more or less the same sized population or with each township's vote weighted by population, under order from the Warren Court (see \"Reynolds v. Sims\"). In Michigan, the new board model was implemented in 1968. The name \"Board of Supervisors\" was changed to \"Board of Commissioners\" in 1970 to avoid confusion with township government (where the term \"Supervisor\" was still used). In New York, the new boards were called \"county legislatures\" (and their members, \"county legislators\"), but not every county has adopted this system. Those that retained the old boards of supervisors after the 1960s assigned each member a proportional vote based on the population represented.\n\nBoards oversee county departments. Generally, this is done under the aegis of a county administrator or county executive. The power of the administrator or executive to act independently depends on the county charter. The administrator or executive usually has the authority over the day-to-day operations of the county's departments. Many boards independently appoint department heads, while other boards delegate that authority to the administrator or executive. Some department heads, like the sheriff or district attorney, may be elected separately by the electorate; however, the board still controls these departments' budgets.\n\nIn the City and County of San Francisco, a consolidated city-county government, the Board of Supervisors does dual duty as a county board of control and a city council, and the mayor is simultaneously city head of state and county executive.\n\nIn some states, the board is the final arbiter of decisions made by commissions underneath a board. This often involves land use planning issues.\n\nIn some states the equivalent body to a Board of Supervisors is called the \"county council\" or \"county commission\"; for Louisiana parishes, the equivalent body is a \"Police Jury\". In New Jersey, the equivalent is the Board of chosen freeholders, while in Kentucky the equivalent is called the Fiscal Court. In Nebraska, some counties are governed by a board of supervisors while others are governed by a county commission. In New York, counties are governed by a county legislature, a board of representatives, or a board of supervisors.\n\nIn Pennsylvania, \"Board of Supervisors\" is the name of the body governing townships of the second class that have not adopted a home rule charter. By default, a Pennsylvania township board of supervisors consists of three members, elected at large in odd-numbered years to staggered six-year terms. Voters of a township of the second class can vote to expand the board to five members. In contrast, townships of the first class elect a Board of Commissioners, one member from each ward, ranging from 7 to 15 in number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50734859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50734859", "title": "Canadian Council on International Law", "text": "Canadian Council on International Law\n\nThe Canadian Council on International Law (CCIL) is a not-for-profit organization founded in 1972 by Sir Ronald St. John Macdonald. The mandate of the organization is to further the worldwide discussion of international legal issues including public and private international law. The organization brings together all four sectors of law, namely private practitioners, scholars, NGO's, and government lawyers, through various events and an annual Conference held at the Government of Canada facility of foreign affairs, currently known as Global Affairs Canada.\n\nThe organization also honours outstanding lawyers and students through awards and scholarships, including the John E. Read Medal, the Public Sector Lawyer Award, the Leslie C. Green Veterans Scholarship and, importantly, the John Peters Humphrey Student Fellowships.\n\nFormer recipients of the John E. Read Medal include: Stephen Toope, current Director of the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto; and Donald McRae, Hyman Soloway Chair and Full Professor at the University of Ottawa.\n\nPast Presidents of the organization include: the above-noted Stephen Toope; Donald McRae; Valerie Hughes, former Director, Legal Affairs, of the World Trade Organization Secretariat; Robert Brookfield, Deputy Legal Adviser and Director General, Trade Law Bureau, Global Affairs Canada; and, Craig Forcese, Associate Professor, the University of Ottawa; and Adrienne Jarabek Marion, a prominent human rights lawyer in Ottawa. The full list is on their website.\n\nThe current sitting President of the organization is Marie-Claude Boisvert, an international trade and investment lawyer, working at the Trade Law Bureau, Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "3221417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221417", "title": "Cause of action", "text": "Cause of action\n\nA cause of action, in law, is a set of facts sufficient to justify a right to sue to obtain money, property, or the enforcement of a right against another party. The term also refers to the legal theory upon which a plaintiff brings suit (such as breach of contract, battery, or false imprisonment). The legal document which carries a claim is often called a 'statement of claim' in English law, or a 'complaint' in U.S. federal practice and in many U.S. states. It can be any communication notifying the party to whom it is addressed of an alleged fault which resulted in damages, often expressed in amount of money the receiving party should pay/reimburse.\n\nTo pursue a cause of action, a plaintiff pleads or alleges facts in a complaint, the pleading that initiates a lawsuit. A cause of action generally encompasses both the legal theory (the legal wrong the plaintiff claims to have suffered) and the remedy (the relief a court is asked to grant). Often the facts or circumstances that entitle a person to seek judicial relief may create multiple causes of action. Although it is fairly straightforward to file a Statement of Claim in most jurisdictions, if it is not done properly, then the filing party may lose his case due to simple technicalities.\n\nThere are a number of specific causes of action, including: contract-based actions; statutory causes of action; torts such as assault, battery, invasion of privacy, fraud, slander, negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress; and suits in equity such as unjust enrichment and quantum meruit.\n\nThe points a plaintiff must prove to win a given type of case are called the \"elements\" of that cause of action. For example, for a claim of negligence, the elements are: the (existence of a) duty, breach (of that duty), proximate cause (by that breach), and damages. If a complaint does not allege facts sufficient to support every element of a claim, the court, upon motion by the opposing party, may dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim for which relief can be granted.\n\nThe defendant to a cause of action must file an \"Answer\" to the complaint in which the \"claims\" can be admitted or denied (including denial on the basis of insufficient information in the complaint to form a response). The answer may also contain counterclaims in which the \"Counterclaim Plaintiff\" states its own causes of action. Finally, the answer may contain affirmative defenses. Most defenses must be raised at the first possible opportunity either in the answer or by motion or are deemed waived. A few defenses, in particular a court's lack of subject matter jurisdiction, need not be pleaded and may be raised at any time.\n\n"}
{"id": "36498268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36498268", "title": "Central Election Commission of Abkhazia", "text": "Central Election Commission of Abkhazia\n\nThe Central Election Commission of Abkhazia is the body responsible for conducting national elections and overseeing local elections in Abkhazia. It was first formed on 20 July 1991.\nThe first chairman of the Central Election Commission was Viacheslav Tsugba, who held the post until he became Prime Minister in 1999.\n\nOn 11 October 2004, Sergei Smyr resigned during the height of the crisis following the Presidential election earlier that month. On 14 December, the newly formed Central Election Commission elected former Justice Minister Batal Tabagua as its chairman.\n\nIn 2016, Tabagua was not re-appointed to the Central Election Commission, and on 23 December, former State Privatisation Committee Chairman Tamaz Gogia was elected his successor during the first meeting of the CEC in its new composition.\n"}
{"id": "14548522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14548522", "title": "Claim of right doctrine", "text": "Claim of right doctrine\n\nIn the tax law of the United States the claim of right doctrine causes a taxpayer to recognize income if they receive the income even though they do not have a fixed right to the income. For the income to qualify as being received there must be a receipt of cash or property that ordinarily constitutes income rather than loans or gifts or deposits that are returnable, the taxpayer needs unlimited control on the use or disposition of the funds, and the taxpayer must hold and treat the income as its own. This law is largely created by the courts, but some aspects have been codified into the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nThe claim of right doctrine, as it dictates whether the \"right\" to the income subject to a contingency that may take the income away is taxable in the US, originated in the \"North American Oil Consolidated v. Burnet\" decision. This court decision said that a taxpayer's income subject to a contingency that may take away the income but a taxpayer who receives it \"without restriction as to its disposition...has received income\" which the taxpayer \"is required to [report]\", even though the taxpayer \"may still be adjudged liable to restore\" it. In other words, A taxpayer must report the receipt of income for the time that she or he has control over it.\n\nIf a taxpayer ends up having to return the income recognized under the claim of right doctrine, then the taxpayer may receive a tax credit for that amount according to the Internal Revenue Code, if such a credit is a greater tax benefit than a deduction.\n\nThe courts limited the claim of right doctrine and will not allow the IRS to make the taxpayer recognize income if there are significant restrictions on the taxpayer's disposition of the income.\n\n"}
{"id": "530413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530413", "title": "Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act", "text": "Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act\n\nThe Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), also known as the \"Digital Telephony Act,\" is a United States wiretapping law passed in 1994, during the presidency of Bill Clinton (Pub. L. No. 103-414, 108 Stat. 4279, codified at 47 USC 1001-1010).\n\nCALEA's purpose is to enhance the ability of law enforcement agencies to conduct lawful interception of communication by requiring that telecommunications carriers and manufacturers of telecommunications equipment modify and design their equipment, facilities, and services to ensure that they have built-in capabilities for targeted surveillance, allowing federal agencies to selectively wiretap any telephone traffic; it has since been extended to cover broadband Internet and VoIP traffic. Some government agencies argue that it covers mass surveillance of communications rather than just tapping specific lines and that not all CALEA-based access requires a warrant.\n\nThe original reason for adopting CALEA was the Federal Bureau of Investigation's worry that increasing use of digital telephone exchange switches would make tapping phones at the phone company's central office harder and slower to execute, or in some cases impossible. Since the original requirement to add CALEA-compliant interfaces required phone companies to modify or replace hardware and software in their systems, U.S. Congress included funding for a limited time period to cover such network upgrades. CALEA was passed into law on October 25, 1994 and came into force on January 1, 1995.\n\nIn the years since CALEA was passed it has been greatly expanded to include all VoIP and broadband Internet traffic. From 2004 to 2007 there was a 62 percent growth in the number of wiretaps performed under CALEA and more than 3,000 percent growth in interception of Internet data such as email.\n\nBy 2007, the FBI had spent $39 million on its Digital Collection System Network (DCSNet) system, which collects, stores, indexes, and analyzes communications data.\nIn its own words, the purpose of CALEA is:\n\nThe U.S. Congress passed the CALEA to aid law enforcement in its effort to conduct criminal investigations requiring wiretapping of digital telephone networks. The Act obliges telecommunications companies to make it possible for law enforcement agencies to tap any phone conversations carried out over its networks, as well as making call detail records available. The act stipulates that it must not be possible for a person to detect that his or her conversation is being monitored by the respective government agency.\n\nCommon carriers, facilities-based broadband Internet access providers, and providers of interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service all three types of entities are defined to be “telecommunications carriers” and must meet the requirements of CALEA.\n\nThe CALEA Implementation Unit at the FBI has clarified that intercepted information is supposed to be sent to Law Enforcement concurrently with its capture.\n\nOn March 10, 2004, the United States Department of Justice, FBI and Drug Enforcement Administration filed a \"Joint Petition for Expedited Rulemaking\" in which they requested certain steps to accelerate CALEA compliance, and to extend the provisions of CALEA to include the ability to perform surveillance of all communications that travel over the Internet such as Internet traffic and VoIP.\n\nAs a result, the FCC adopted a \"First Report and Order\" concluding that CALEA applies to facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and providers of interconnected (with the public switched telephone network) Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) services.\n\nIn May 2006, the FCC adopted a \"Second Report and Order\", which clarified and affirmed the First Order:\n\n\nFor Voice and Text messaging, CALEA software in the central office enables wiretap. If a call comes in for a number on the target phone a \"conference bridge\" is created and the second leg is sent to law enforcement at the place of their choosing. By law this must be outside of phone company. This prevents law enforcement from being inside the phone company and possibly illegally tapping other phones.\n\nText messages are also sent to law enforcement.\n\nThere are two levels of CALEA wiretapping:\n\nUSA telecommunications providers must install new hardware or software, as well as modify old equipment, so that it doesn't interfere with the ability of a law enforcement agency (LEA) to perform real-time surveillance of any telephone or Internet traffic. Modern voice switches now have this capability built in, yet Internet equipment almost always requires some kind of intelligent deep packet inspection probe to get the job done. In both cases, the intercept function must single out a subscriber named in a warrant for intercept and then immediately send some (headers-only) or all (full content) of the intercepted data to an LEA. The LEA will then process this data with analysis software that is specialized towards criminal investigations.\n\nAll traditional voice switches on the U.S. market today have the CALEA intercept feature built in. The IP-based \"soft switches\" typically do not contain a built-in CALEA intercept feature; and other IP-transport elements (routers, switches, access multiplexers) almost always delegate the CALEA function to elements dedicated to inspecting and intercepting traffic. In such cases, hardware taps or switch/router mirror-ports are employed to deliver copies of all of a network's data to dedicated IP probes.\n\nProbes can either send directly to the LEA according to the industry standard delivery formats (c.f. ATIS T1.IAS, T1.678v2, et al.); or they can deliver to an intermediate element called a mediation device, where the mediation device does the formatting and communication of the data to the LEA. A probe that can send the correctly formatted data to the LEA is called a \"self-contained\" probe.\n\nIn order to be compliant, IP-based service providers (broadband, cable, VoIP) must choose either a self-contained probe, or a \"dumb\" probe component plus a mediation device, or they must implement the delivery of correctly formatted data for a named subscriber on their own.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) warns that:\n\n\nJournalist Marc Zwillinger from the \"Wall Street Journal\" explains his concerns with proposed revisions to the CALEA that would require Internet companies to provide law enforcement with a method of gaining access to communication on their networks. Zwillinger warns this new mandatory access could create a dangerous situation for multinational companies not being able to refuse demands from foreign governments. These governments could “threaten financial sanctions, asset seizures, imprisonment of employees and prohibition against a company’s services in their countries.\" In addition, the creation of this new mechanism could create an easier way for hackers to gain access to the U.S. government’s key. Moreover, the U.S. telephone network and the global internet differ in that U.S. telephone carriers “weren’t responsible for decrypting communications unless the carrier possessed the decryption key. In fact, CALEA’s legislative history is full of assurances that the Department of Justice and FBI had no intention to require providers to decrypt communications for which they did not have the key.” Therefore, a revision of the CALEA cannot necessarily secure companies from providing data on their devices during criminal investigations to foreign governments.\n\nOriginally CALEA only granted the ability to wiretap digital telephone networks, but in 2004, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) filed a joint petition with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to expand their powers to include the ability to monitor VoIP and broadband Internet communications so that they could monitor Web traffic as well as phone calls.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has filed several lawsuits to prevent the FCC from granting these expanded domestic surveillance capabilities.\n\nThe FCC’s First Report and Order, issued in September 2005, ruled that providers of broadband Internet access and interconnected VoIP services are regulable as “telecommunications carriers” under CALEA. That order was affirmed and further clarified by the Second Report and Order, dated May 2006. On May 5, 2006, a group of higher education and library organizations led by the American Council on Education (ACE) challenged that ruling, arguing that the FCC’s interpretation of CALEA was unconstitutional under the Fourth Amendment. However, on June 9, 2006, the D.C. Circuit Court disagreed and summarily denied the petition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3719617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719617", "title": "Concerned Foreign Service Officers", "text": "Concerned Foreign Service Officers\n\nConcerned Foreign Service Officers (CFSO) is a group of current and former Foreign Service and Civil Service employees of the U.S. Department of State, cofounded by William Savich and Daniel M. Hirsch, created to investigate, document and expose alleged misuse of the security clearance process by the State Department's Diplomatic Security Service (DSS).\n\nCFSO's concern is the possibility that the clearance process can be used to circumvent Federal personnel regulations, to bypass equal employment opportunity laws and to punish dissenters and whistle blowers within the agency.\n\nThe group investigates and documents allegations of improper and coercive interview techniques, fraudulent statements in investigative reports, suppression or destruction of evidence, improper seizure of personal property, misapplication of security regulations and similar allegations in relation to DSS cases.\n\nThe group considers that such acts would threaten the national security of the United States by reducing the reliability and integrity of DSS operations and by inhibiting the expression of dissenting views within the Foreign Service. Concerned Foreign Service Officers is allied with the National Security Whistle Blowers Coalition.\n\n"}
{"id": "9495635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9495635", "title": "Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons", "text": "Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons\n\nThe Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons is a 1954 United Nations multilateral treaty that aims to protect stateless individuals.\n\nThe United Nations Charter and Universal Declaration of Human Rights were approved on 10 December 1948. Of significance, the Declaration at Article 15 affirms that:\n\nThe Convention relating to the Status of Refugees was promulgated on 28 July 1951. Despite an original intention, it did not include any content about the status of stateless persons and there was no protocol regarding measures to effect the reduction of statelessness.\n\nOn 26 April 1954, ECOSOC adopted a Resolution to convene a Conference of Plenipotentiaries to \"regulate and improve the status of stateless persons by an international agreement\".\n\nThe ensuing Conference adopted the Convention on 28 September 1954.\n\nThe Convention entered into force on 6 June 1960.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of September 2016, the United Nations, the depositary of the convention, lists 91 parties to the Convention; two states (Holy See and Colombia) have signed the convention, but have not ratified it. The 91 parties are: Albania, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kiribati, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Macedonia, Malawi, Mali, Mexico, Montenegro, Mozambique, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, South Korea, Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nHaiti is the most recent to accede to the Convention, doing so on 27 September 2018.\n\nMadagascar denounced its accession made in 1962, effective 2 April 1966. The United Kingdom extended the convention to British Hong Kong, and China has declared that the convention continues to apply to Hong Kong post-1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8851551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8851551", "title": "Copyright law of the Soviet Union", "text": "Copyright law of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Copyright law of the Soviet Union went through several major revisions during its existence. The first Socialist copyright law was passed in 1925. Three years later, it was superseded by a second version that remained in force for more than three decades, until it was replaced in 1961.\n\nThroughout these various revisions of the law, some characteristics remained constant. Copyright was automatic in the USSR: a work was copyrighted from its creation, and registration was not needed. Only creative works expressed in some objective form were subject to copyright. The duration of copyright was much shorter than customary in the West. Copyright was, from the beginning, limited to works of Soviet citizens and to works by foreign authors that were first published in the USSR (or, if unpublished, existed in objective form on the territory of the Soviet Union). The economic rights of authors were limited by a long list of uses that did not constitute copyright infringements, and mandatory official royalty rates limited the income of authors. Soviet copyright law also granted the freedom of translation (until 1973): any work could be freely translated and then published without the original author's consent.\n\nThe accession of the USSR to the Universal Copyright Convention, which became effective on May 27, 1973, was a major turning point. Copyright was extended to also cover works of foreign authors that were first published abroad after that date, and the freedom of translation had to be abolished. For the first time in history, Russia (in the form of the Soviet Union) had joined a multilateral, international copyright treaty, ending the country's self-imposed isolation (but also its independence) in copyright matters.\n\nDuring Perestroika, the law and the administrative procedures were changed piece by piece, relaxing the governmental control over authors' exercises of their copyright. The official royalty rates were dropped, and the state monopoly on foreign trade on copyrights was abolished. Authors for the first time could legally negotiate publication contracts with foreign publishers themselves. A new, profoundly revised Soviet copyright law was passed in 1991, but the Soviet Union was dissolved before it could enter in force.\n\nThe old Tsarist Copyright law of 1911 was not immediately invalidated after the October Revolution. The old law, with its copyright term of 50 years after the author's death and its possibility of transferring copyrights in their entirety from an author to a publisher, continued to be valid initially. But the nationalizations in all areas of the economy soon considerably restricted the avenues through which an author could publish her or his work, even if her or his copyright remained initially untouched. All publishing activities were placed under the supervision of the State Publishing house by a decree of May 21, 1919. On July 29, 1919, the government declared a state monopoly on unpublished works of deceased authors; and on April 20, 1920, \"all\" books (including those in private possession) were nationalized, except those in public libraries. Theatres and film studios as well as the photographic industry were nationalized in August 1919. Private publishing houses were eventually liquidated as well. The right to translate foreign publications into Russian was also monopolized by the government.\n\nIn the interest of public education, the new Communist regime wanted to widely (and inexpensively) disseminate classic Russian literature to the masses. Toward this end, a decree was issued December 29, 1917 (Gregorian date) enabling the People's Commissariat for Education to nationalize works of deceased authors (including composers). On February 14, 1918, the works of 58 deceased authors were nationalized -- including, among others, Chekhov, Chernyshevsky, Dostoyevsky, Gogol, Herzen, Lermontov, Pushkin, Tolstoy, and Turgenev. The government established a state monopoly on the publication of these authors' works for a period of five years, which was later extended by again five years. A second nationalization decree of November 26, 1918 extended the powers of the People's Commissariat for Education to nationalize also works of living authors. The decree granted the commissariat a perpetual monopoly to the publication rights of such nationalized works; living authors were to receive royalties based on the standard remuneration schedules established by the government, while the royalties on works by deceased authors went to the state. Based upon this second decree, a number of nationalizations occurred in the following years. On August 16, 1919, the works of the seventeen composers Arensky, Borodin, Tchaikovsky, Balakirev, Cui, Kalinnikov, Laroche, Lyadov, Mussorgsky, Rimsky-Korsakov, Rubinstein, Sakketi, Scriabin, Serov, Smolensky, Stasov, and Taneyev were nationalized. On January 18, 1923, the works of Mikhail Bakunin and 46 further authors were nationalized. A third decree on May 14, 1925 nationalized the works of Georgi Plekhanov and also the Russian translations of the works of Upton Sinclair, and finally, on June 28, 1927, the Marx-Engels Institute was granted a publication monopoly on the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.\n\nLegislative decrees invalidated some—but not all—of the provisions of the Tsarist copyright law. In the context of the general abolition of legal and testimonial succession rights, the nationalization decree of November 26, 1918 also reduced the copyright term from the 50 years \"p.m.a.\" (—\"after the author's death\") of the Tsarist copyright law to the lifetime of the author. Assignments of copyrights in their entirety were invalidated by a decree of October 10, 1919. Under the Tsarist law, an author could transfer his copyrights to a publisher; under Soviet doctrine, this was not possible: an author could only grant a publisher a time-limited publication right, a principle that would hold throughout the existence of the Soviet Union. Furthermore, the contracts to be used were standardized and a fixed schedule for royalties was defined by a decree of October 25, 1918.\n\nCopyright in itself was upheld, though: works that had not been nationalized could only be used or reproduced with the consent of the author. Nationalized works could only be published with the consent of the People's Commissariat for Education, to which a publisher also had to pay a fee according to a fixed schedule.\n\nThe legal situation concerning copyright in the Soviet Union in the early 1920s was confused. The Tsarist copyright law was still partially in effect, but its status was unclear. There were a number of decrees affecting copyright, but there was no unified legal treatment. The new Civil Law of the Russian SFSR, which became effective on January 1, 1923, did not contain any provisions on copyright either. In 1924, the Council of People's Commissars launched a project to develop a new copyright statute. On January 30, 1925, the Central Executive Committee passed the new Fundamentals of Copyright Law. These \"Fundamentals\" (\"\"—) were to serve as a model law for the laws of the individual republics of the Soviet Union, which all—with the exception of the Ukrainian SSR—passed laws implementing the Fundamentals at the republic level in 1925/26; the RSFSR Copyright Act was passed on October 11, 1926. All these republics' laws did not deviate from the Fundamentals. Only in the Azerbaijan SSR were the copyright provisions included in the Civil Code of the republic; in all other SSRs, the act was a separate ad-hoc piece of legislation.\n\nThe 1925 Copyright Act provided for a general copyright term of 25 years since the first publication of a work. If an author died before that period had expired, the heirs were granted the right to receive royalties according to the schedules established by the government for the shorter of the remaining part of the 25-year term or during 15 years. If a work was published after the author's death, this right was limited to a term of 15 years from the posthumous publication. For some specific classes of works, such as encyclopedias, photographs, or also choreographic and pantomimic works the copyright term was shorter than the general 25-year period. \n\nThe law recognized the exclusive right of the author to publish, reproduce, and distribute his work, and also his right to remuneration, i.e., the right to receive royalties for uses of a work. The law included provisions enabling authors to transfer copyrights for a limited time (five years) to a publisher by contract; only publishing contracts with state, trade union, or Party publishing houses could be of unlimited duration. The contract had to specify precisely the intended use of the work, the number of copies printed, the royalties to be paid, etc. The allowed range of the amount of royalties was prescribed in governmental remuneration schedules.\n\nThe copyrights of an author were limited by a large array of free uses allowed without the author's consent. Amongst these free uses was the \"freedom of translation\", which had already existed in the old Tsarist copyright law. A translation of any work could be done without the author's consent, and the translator was granted a separate and independent copyright on the translation. This provision was, already before Soviet times, motivated by the desire to ensure an economically viable way to translate works between the many national languages of the country. A decree on March 16, 1927 clarified that radio broadcasts of theater or concert performances were also admissible free uses. Compulsory licenses also existed in the 1925 Copyright Act. Public performances of a published work, for instance, were allowed without the author's consent, but were subject to the payment of the standard royalties. The government also reserved the right to forcibly nationalize any work.\n\nAnother characteristic that Soviet copyright law inherited from the Tsarist law was that copyright was automatic: copyright began with the creation of the work (not its completion or publication), and was not subject to registration. Copyright covered all literary and musical works as well as works of the arts and scientific works and also films by Soviet citizens, as well as works by foreign authors that were first published in the Soviet Union or, if unpublished, existed there in some objective form, irrespective of the author's nationality. An \"objective form\" was any form that permitted the reproduction of the work without any involvement of the original author. Only creative works were subject to copyright; works of a purely technical nature such as telephone directories, business correspondence, accountants' statements, but also court decisions or decrees, did not fall under copyright. Soviet courts interpreted this creativity requirement liberally; requiring only a minimal creative effort. A work created by a minimal paraphrase of an existing text could already be considered a new work eligible to copyright.\n\nAfter only three years, new Fundamentals of Copyright Law superseded the 1925 version. The new Fundamentals were passed on May 16, 1928, and again the Union republics implemented them by passing their own compliant copyright acts afterwards. The 1928 law was similar to the 1925 one. It maintained the author's exclusive rights to publish, reproduce, distribute, and perform his works, and also his right to derive an income from such uses of his work. It took over from the 1925 law the list of free uses, including the freedom of translation, and also the cases involving compulsory licenses. The government reserved the right to nationalize a work without consent of the author. In practice, an author's exclusive rights to publish and distribute his works was restricted by the requirement to do so through official channels and by the state monopoly over the printing and publishing industries.\n\nThe copyright term was changed from 25 years following the first publication of a work to the lifetime of the author plus 15 years (15 years \"p.m.a.\"). This change was applied retroactively also to works that had already entered the public domain under the old term. Upon the death of an author, copyright passed onto his heirs or other legal successors. For certain kinds of works, shorter copyright terms applied. Periodicals, encyclopedias, choreographic works, movies and movie scripts, and collections of photographs were copyrighted for ten years from their first publication. Individual photographs were copyrighted for five years since their publication. Photographs were only copyrighted if they bore the name of the studio or the photographer, the address, and the year.\n\nIndividual republics of the USSR were free to devise their own rules for standard publication contracts and royalty schedules. Royalty collection and payment was centralized through a state agency founded in 1932 and named in 1938 the \"All-Union Administration for the Protection of Copyrights\", (VUOAP – \"\"; ). The VUOAP was placed under the auspices of the Union of Soviet Writers and managed literary works. Similar collecting societies existed for other kinds of works, such as compositions, movies, or works of the visual arts.\n\nUnder the 1928 Copyright Act, courts did not grant any damage claims by private persons for copyright infringement. The payment of fines to citizens instead of to the state was seen as contrary to communist doctrine. When damages were granted, they were to be paid to the state. Furthermore, the courts limited damage claims in copyright infringement cases to the sums defined by the existing standard schedules of remuneration issued by the government. If no schedule existed, no damages were awarded at all, even if the works were confirmed to be copyrighted.\n\nAlthough Soviet law, from 1925 on until the demise of the Soviet Union (and also beyond in the successor states of the USSR), has always maintained that copyrights existed on a work regardless of its purpose or its value, the \"exercise\" of copyright in the Soviet Union was subject to the rules of censorship and the literary controls, the press legislation, the laws on printing, publishing, and selling, and Party directives. In general, only authors of \"socially useful\" works could exploit their copyrights; on \"useless works\" such as Church hymns no economic rights could be enforced; and authors of undesirable works faced administrative, or social, or even penal sanctions. What was \"socially useful\" was defined in a number of Party decrees (from 1925 to 1963, there were thirty-three such decrees). Publishers, film studios, and so on, were expected to refuse to publish works that were considered non-compliant to the currently valid definitions of the goals of artistic activity as defined by these decrees. In this way, the nominally exclusive rights of authors to publication were restricted by the need to go through the official channels and state-controlled publishing houses. As a way to bypass this governmental control for literary works \"samizdat\" developed: the non-commercial dissemination of a work in chain-letter fashion through carbon-copies produced by readers on their typewriters. Many \"samizdat\" works were considered to be \"anti-Soviet agitation\" by the authorities and the authors were prosecuted under article 58(10) (later articles 70 and 190(1)) of the RSFSR Criminal Code or corresponding provisions of the other republics' penal laws.\n\nThe copyright law of 1928 remained in effect essentially unchanged for more than thirty years. The numerous copyright-related decrees issued during this time concerned mostly administrative matters, such as the definition of the standard author's contracts for publication or the standard royalty tariffs. In 1957, a decree declared that for a posthumously rehabilitated author, the copyright term of 15 years was to begin to run at the date of his rehabilitation, not at the date of his death.\n\nIn 1961, the copyright law of the Soviet Union was completely restructured. For the first time, copyright law was incorporated into the federal Civil Code and no longer formed a separate piece of legislation. On December 8, 1961, the Supreme Soviet of the USSR passed the Fundamentals of Civil Legislation, which entered in force on May 1, 1962. The eleven articles of Chapter IV of these Fundamentals covered the copyright law. The overhaul of the copyright law was to settle doctrinal disputes by clarifying the old law and to adapt the law to the current practice. Again, these new Fundamentals of Civil Legislation formed a statutory framework only (what is called a ' in French, or a ' in German); the fifteen Union republics then passed their own legislation in conformity with this union-wide framework. New republic laws entered in force in all republics in 1964/65; in the RSFSR, the new Russian Civil Code, including the copyright provisions of chapter IV, became effective on June 11, 1964. All these republics' laws were very similar, there were only minor differences.\n\nThe 1961 Fundamentals recognized two distinct classes of rights an author was granted under copyright, termed \"personal rights\" and \"property rights\" in Soviet legal doctrine. Personal rights comprised the right of attribution (i.e., to be named as the author), the right to maintain the integrity of a work, and the right to publish, reproduce, and distribute a work. The property rights essentially were the right to derive material benefits if a work was used. The personal rights were no longer declared \"exclusive\" rights of the author. Soviet legal theorists had argued since the 1930s that despite the text of the 1928 Fundamentals, an author actually did not enjoy exclusive publishing rights on his works and could not publish his works himself, but was only entitled to receive remuneration if the official bodies approved the publication of a work.\n\nCopyright was automatic and not subject to registration; in fact, a long-ignored registration paragraph of the 1928 law had been abolished already in 1959. Copyright arose with the creation of the work. As before, the only requirements for a copyright were that the work was creative and existed in an objective form on the territory of the USSR. If a work met these two conditions, it was copyrighted regardless of the nationality of the author. Works of Soviet authors were copyrighted in all cases, even if they existed only abroad or were first published outside of the Soviet Union. The list of copyrightable works in the law was only indicative, but included explicitly for the first time also sound recordings (\"mechanical or magnetic recording\"). Oral works such as speeches were copyrightable works, although such copyrights were virtually unenforceable in practice and largely nullified anyway by a \"free use\" provision allowing their free reproduction. Architectural works were also copyrighted, but that copyright extended only to the plans, blueprints, and models, not to the actual building itself. Photographs still were subject to the rule from the 1928 Fundamentals that they needed to be marked with the name of the studio, its address, and the year in order to be copyrighted. Employees for the first time were granted a copyright on works they created as part of their duties, but their right to remuneration was limited to their salary. Legal documents and in general works created by civil servants in their line of duty were not subject to copyright.\n\nThe Fundamentals defined that copyright lasted throughout the life of the author; individual republics of the union were free to define shorter terms. The Fundamentals also contained provisions dealing with the inheritance of copyright, and indeed the RSFSR defined in its 1964 Civil Code implementation of the fundamentals a general copyright term of 15 years \"p.m.a.\" The shorter terms for certain classes of works that had been defined by the previous Fundamentals of 1928 were abandoned. The personal rights of authorship and to the integrity of the work did not pass to the heirs; these rights were perpetually linked to the author and enforced after the authors' death by VUOAP. Heirs of an author could inherit copyright; their rights essentially comprised the right to be remunerated for uses of the work. In the RSFSR, the maximum royalties heirs were entitled to had been limited already by two decrees in 1957/58 to 50% of the standard royalty schedule. This limit was in 1961 prescribed on a union-wide basis in article 105 of the Fundamentals. Another RSFSR decree from 1962 went even further and reduced the royalties of heirs of authors of non-fictional works to 20% of the standard tariff.\n\nUnder the 1961 Fundamentals, legal entities such as companies could also hold copyrights. Examples of such corporate copyright ownership included photo studios who held the copyright on their photos, publishers of encyclopedias or periodicals, who held a copyright on the compilation as a whole, film studios, who owned the copyrights on movie scripts and the movies they produced, and select news agencies (TASS, on January 15, 1935, was granted the copyright on all the information it disseminated. Novosti was later also granted this right.). In the case of compilations such as encyclopedias or periodicals, the publishing company owned only a copyright on the work in its entirety; the copyright on the individual contributions that made up the compilation remained with the individual authors. Copyrights held by legal entities were defined to be perpetual; if a company was reorganized, its legal successor entity took over the copyrights, and if a company ceased to exist, the copyrights passed to the state.\n\nThe 1961 Fundamentals, like its predecessor laws, allowed for a wide selection of free uses and compulsory licenses, subject only to the attribution of the original author of a work. Free uses of a work allowed anyone to use a published, copyrighted work without the original author's consent and without the payment of royalties, while compulsory licenses were those cases where the use was also allowed without the author's consent, but only if royalties were paid. The free uses comprised:\n\nAmong the free uses, the 1961 Fundamentals also maintained the freedom of translation, but the translator was newly required to maintain the meaning and the integrity of the original work (article 102). The Civil Code of the RSFSR of 1964 contained an additional free use provision in article 493 that allowed the reproduction or other use of a published work for personal purposes.\n\nThere were four compulsory licenses in the 1961 Fundamentals:\n\nFinally, the government also continued to reserve the right of compulsory purchase of copyrights, but this right was not often exercised. It was employed mostly to prevent \"unjustified enrichment\" of the heirs of authors of successful works.\n\nOn February 27, 1973, the Soviet Union joined the Geneva version of 1952 of the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC). The UCC became effective in the USSR on May 27, 1973. Until then, the USSR had not participated in any multilateral international copyright treaties; it had only concluded two bilateral contracts with Hungary (in 1967) and Bulgaria (in 1971). The USSR timed its accession to the UCC to occur before the 1971 Paris version of the UCC entered into force. Once the Paris version had become effective, accessions to the earlier Geneva version were no longer possible. The USSR would then have been forced to implement the somewhat stronger provisions of the 1971 Paris version, which in particular explicitly recognized an author's exclusive rights to reproduction, performance, and broadcast of a work.\n\nBy virtue of the UCC, foreign works first published after May 27, 1973 outside of the USSR became copyrighted in the Soviet Union if\nSoviet works first published after this date also became copyrighted in other UCC countries.\n\nOn February 21, 1973, six days before the USSR deposited its declaration of accession to the UCC, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR enacted a series of amendments to chapter IV of the 1961 Fundamentals to bring the Soviet copyright law in line with the minimum requirements the UCC imposed. The Union republics adapted their own laws accordingly; the RSFSR as the largest of the republics did so on March 1, 1974. In 1978, the USSR declared its agreement with the use of Soviet copyrighted works in developing countries according to the rules laid down in the 1971 Paris edition of the UCC.\n\nSince the UCC prescribed a minimum copyright term of 25 years, chapter IV of the Fundamentals was changed accordingly. Copyright henceforth ran generally for the lifetime of the author plus 25 years, only for photographic works and works of applied art, there were shorter terms in some of the republics. In the Georgian SSR, these kinds of works were copyrighted for 20 years since their publication or creation, in the Moldavian and Uzbek SSR, for 15 years, and in Azerbaijan for ten years. In Kazakhstan, photographic works were protected for ten years and collections of photos for 15 years. These reduced terms took advantage of a provision in the UCC that set a minimum term of ten years since publication for these kinds of works. The law of the Russian SSR did not contain any such reduced copyright terms for these kinds of works. The new, longer copyright term only applied to works that were still copyrighted in the USSR in 1973.\n\nCopyrights could be inherited. The rights of heirs and other legal successors were restored: they were entitled to receive the full royalties on a work. The reduced rates for heirs of at most 50% of the standard schedule were abandoned, but increased taxation of royalties received by heirs offset this benefit again. If no heirs existed, or the author had disinherited them or had willed his works to the state, copyright ceased with the author's death (this had already been the case under the 1961/1964 laws). Parallel to the new laws, the republics also issued new royalty schedules, generally with decreasing remuneration scales: an author was, for instance, entitled to more money on the first print run than on subsequent runs.\n\nAnother major change was that the freedom of translation was revoked. Translations were from 1973 on subject to the consent of the copyright owner of the original work. The copyright on a translation belonged to the translator.\n\nIn exchange, two new free uses were included in the law in 1973. The first was a very broad free use permission allowing newspapers to reproduce any published report or scientific, artistic, literary, or oral work; either in the original or as a translation. This broad permission was exploited by some publications such as \"Literaturnaya Gazeta\", which published on October 24, 1973 long translated excerpts of \"Marilyn\", Norman Mailer's biography of Marilyn Monroe, and again on January 1, 1974 a large translated excerpt from \"Breakfast of Champions\" by Kurt Vonnegut. This practice caused sufficient negative publicity for the USSR in the West that Soviet publishers purchased the publication rights in Russian language on these works shortly afterwards.\n\nThe second new free use provision permitted non-commercial reproduction of printed works for scientific or educational purposes. According to Newcity, this permission was limited to reproduction by photocopying. In 1976, another additional free use permission was added, which allowed free republication in Braille of a published work.\n\nUntil 1973, copyright in the Soviet Union was non-transferrable. Authors could not sign away their copyrights; they only could grant a publisher a limited right to use a work for a specific purpose for a limited time (typically five years). For publication, authors had to use standard authors' contracts that were prescribed by the government. Slightly different standard contracts existed for different kinds of works, but they all shared this same basic characteristic. In all cases, the intended use of the work by a publisher was exactly described (e.g. including the size of a print run for print publications), and if the publisher accepted the delivered work, he was obliged to actually publish it within a set time frame (the first edition had to appear after at most one or two years, depending on the kind of work).\n\nWhen the Soviet Union joined the UCC, a new type of freely negotiable licences was introduced to facilitate dealing with publishers abroad, and in particular in the West. Copyrights, especially the right to publish a work, became transferrable through these licenses. The intention clearly was that the old-style authors' contracts were to be used amongst Soviet partners for domestic publication, whereas the new licensing scheme was to be employed towards foreign publishers. Upon a decree of August 16, 1973, the \"All-Union Agency on Copyrights\" (VAAP – \"\"; ) was founded on September 20, 1973. The VAAP replaced the several previously existing collecting societies (such as the VUOAP), taking over their tasks and additionally managing copyrights on foreign works in the USSR and also the copyrights on Soviet works abroad. Officially, the VAAP was a non-governmental organization sponsored by creative unions (such as the Union of Soviet Writers) and seven state organs; but for all practical purposes, it was a state agency. All contracts with foreign publishers had to be concluded through VAAP; authors were forbidden to negotiate directly with foreign publishers. In the standard authors' publishing contracts, an author transferred the right to use the work abroad to the first publisher; and publishers were also obliged to go through VAAP for international copyright deals. The VAAP held the state monopoly on the import and export of copyrights. Only the state organs for cinematography (Goskino, through its Soveksportfilm agency) and television and radio broadcasts (Gosteleradio), as well as the news agency Novosti were exempted from that monopoly, but even they had to register all contracts with foreign partners with VAAP.\n\nThe accession to the UCC caused a dual system in Soviet copyright law, with the effect that foreign works published after May 27, 1973, were actually granted a stronger copyright protection than Soviet works because for foreign works the definition of the UCC of \"publication\" applied, which was narrower than the definition of \"publication\" in Soviet law, which continued to be applied to Soviet works. The duality was also emphasized by the new licensing scheme. In the years following the accession to the UCC, considerable doctrinal confusion ensued amongst Soviet scholars on how to reconcile such dual treatment with the Soviet ideology or ideals. Scholars proposed further changes and clarifications beyond the changes necessary to conform to the UCC. Elst concludes that the accession to the UCC questioned the internal consistency of Soviet law and undermined several of its basic principles, and that the myriad of improvement suggestions by scholars actually caused new legal uncertainties.\n\nGorbachev's Perestroika also had repercussions on the copyright law. From 1987 to 1990, a number of decrees modified the legislation on copyright and related areas. New remuneration rates that defined much higher royalties than the previous schedules were issued in 1987; the decreasing scales were given up at the same time: the royalties for all subsequent printings of a work were defined uniformly to amount to 70% of the rates for the first publication. Important changes occurred two years later, when the monopoly of the VAAP on foreign trade in copyrights was broken. Authors henceforth could negotiate directly with foreign publishers; and even the clause in the mandatory model contracts for publication that assigned this right from the author to his publisher was abolished. Likewise, Soviet publishers were free to negotiate with foreign authors or publishers licenses to publish foreign works in the Soviet Union.\n\nAlso in 1987, a work group tasked with adapting the Soviet copyright law to a market economy was formed. In early 1990, the work group presented a draft for a revised section IV of the Fundamentals on copyright and a new section IV A on neighbouring rights. But the proposal, comprising 32 articles, remained unused; the Supreme Soviet's Committee for legislation published in March 1990 its own draft version of the new Fundamentals that ignored many of the innovations found in the work group's proposal. This draft was, with some modifications, passed as law on March 31, 1991. Despite the briefness of chapter IV of the new 1991 Fundamentals—it consisted of only 10 articles, of which 2 covered neighbouring rights and one was on measures against copyright infringements—it was a radical break with the previous practice. \n\nThe new law aimed at harmonizing the Soviet republics' copyright laws, which had in some areas drifted apart over the years. This was achieved by making the 1991 Fundamentals more explicit and giving the republics less leeway to devise their own rules.\n\nThe author of a work again was granted a set of exclusive rights: the personal (or moral) rights to authorship, name, and the integrity of the work, and the property (or economic) rights to the work: the right to publish or use the work, and the right to remuneration for use of the work or for granting permission to use the work. A \"use\" of a work was defined by a non-exhaustive list that included broadcasting, performance, modification, adaptation, recording, and distribution. \"Publication\" was clearly defined to be subject to the author's permission.\n\nThe initial copyright owner in all cases was the \"citizen\" (i.e., the natural person) who had created the work. The copyright of legal entities was abolished; publishers of scientific collections or encyclopedias as well as film studios were only granted a derived right to use the work in its entirety, subject to the remuneration of the authors. For works made for hire, the employer was granted a similar right to use the work, limited to at most three years since the delivery of the work. Shorter terms could be defined contractually. The state's authors' contracts for publication were no longer mandatory, and the upper limits to remuneration were dropped: contractual freedom was established.\n\nThe copyright term was extended from 25 years to generally 50 years \"p.m.a.\" for all kinds of works, and the law for the first time made explicit that no formalities were required for a work to be copyrighted. Anonymous or pseudonymous works were copyrighted for 50 years since their initial publication, unless the real identity of the author became known during that time and thus 50 years \"p.m.a.\" applied. The moral rights to authorship, name, and integrity of the work were perpetual; and authors could only transfer usage rights on a work (but not their right to remuneration for such uses, which always remained a personal right of the author).\n\nThe list of free uses was reduced considerably, and the remaining allowed free uses were defined much more narrowly than before. Similar to fair use, any such free use was only allowed if it didn't infringe upon the normal exploitation of the work or the legitimate interests of the author. Compulsory licenses were abolished altogether.\n\nNeighbouring rights were introduced for the first time in Soviet legislation. Broadcasters, performers, and producers of phono- or videograms were granted exclusive neighbouring rights for a period of 50 years since the first broadcast, performance, or distribution of a phono- or videogram. They were also granted—in excess of the provisions of the Rome Convention—the moral rights to name and integrity of the work.\n\nBefore the new 1991 Fundamentals could enter in force on January 1, 1992, the USSR had been dissolved. The provisions of the 1991 legislation never became effective in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn Russia, the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation passed a decree that made the USSR 1991 Fundamentals effective in Russia from August 3, 1992 on, insofar as these Fundamentals contradicted neither the Constitution of the Russian Federation nor other legislative acts of Russia passed after June 12, 1990, and only on a temporary basis until the Russian Federation would have adopted a new, own Civil Code. The original USSR executive decree for the 1991 Fundamentals, which laid down the transitory provisions, did not enter in force in Russia, though, and the old Russian Civil Code remained in force insofar as it didn't contradict the 1991 Fundamentals. Section IV of the 1991 Fundamentals was thus in effect for exactly one year until on August 3, 1993, the new Copyright law of Russia entered in Force.\n\nThat new Russian law had a general copyright term of 50 years \"p.m.a.\" and was retroactive, restoring copyright on works on which the shorter Soviet copyright terms had already expired and even copyrighting works that had until then not been considered copyrightable works at all (such as performances, which under the 1993 law were subject to a neighbouring right that had not existed under Soviet legislation). The new Russian copyright terms from the 1993 law became applicable to all works of authors who had died 1943 or later, or to works published in 1943 or later. For authors who had lived and worked during the Great Patriotic War, the copyright term was extended by four years; the corresponding year for such authors and their works was thus 1939. For work first published after the death of the author, the term started at the posthumous publication of the work, and for posthumously rehabilitated authors, the copyright term of the 1993 law began to run with their rehabilitation, making it possible that even older works were placed under copyright again in these cases—examples include the works of Boris Pilniak (executed in 1938, rehabilitated in 1957), Isaac Babel (executed 1940, rehabilitated 1954), or also Osip Mandelstam (died 1938, rehabilitated 1956/1987). Other authors on whose works copyright was restored were Anna Akhmatova (died 1966), Vera Mukhina (died 1953, sculptor of the statue \"Worker and Kolkhoz Woman\"), Aleksey Shchusev (died 1949, architect of the Lenin Mausoleum), Aleksey Tolstoy (died 1945), and many others. An extreme example is Mikhail Bulgakov's \"The Master and Margarita\": the work was first published posthumously in 1966. At that time, the Soviet copyright term of then 15 years \"p.m.a.\" had already expired as Bulgakov had died in 1940. The new Russian copyright law from 1993 placed this work under copyright again, because the 50-year term was calculated from 1966 on.\n\nThe old Soviet law was thus rendered largely obsolete in Russia; it remained applicable only to copyright violations that had occurred before August 3, 1993.\n\nMain sources:\n\n\nOther sources:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24697261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24697261", "title": "Dillon v. Legg", "text": "Dillon v. Legg\n\nDillon v. Legg, 68 Cal. 2d 728 (1968), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of California that established the tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress. To date, it is the most persuasive decision of the most persuasive state supreme court in the United States during the latter half of the 20th century: \"Dillon\" has been favorably cited and followed by at least twenty reported out-of-state appellate decisions, more than any other California appellate decision in the period from 1940 to 2005.\n\nA mother, Margery M. Dillon, and her daughter witnessed the death of her other child in a car accident caused by a negligent driver, David Luther Legg. The mother and daughter sued for emotional distress as a result of witnessing the accident. The accident occurred at the intersection of Bluegrass Road and Clover Lane, a residential area in Sacramento, where the Dillons lived. The trial court dismissed the claim under the prevailing zone of danger rule: the plaintiff needed to be in physical danger of the accident itself to recover for emotional distress.\n\nThe court relied on foreseeability to establish whether or not a negligent defendant owed a duty of care to a bystander. The court urged a case by case analysis of several factors to determine if foreseeability would create a duty to a bystander:\n\n\nUsing these criteria, the court determined that it was foreseeable that the negligent operation of an automobile could cause emotional distress to a mother witnessing the injury of her child in an accident.\n\nIn his dissenting opinion, Justice Traynor asserted that the case should have been decided according to the zone of danger rule enunciated in the case \"Amaya v. Home Ice, Fuel & Supply Co.\"\n\nIn dissent, Justice Burke asserted that the majority had adopted arguments that were previously rejected in \"Amaya\". Burke criticized the guidelines offered by the majority as insufficient protection against possibly limitless liability. Burke viewed the limitations on liability inherent in the zone of danger rule as logical and necessary, and thought that such a pronounced change in liability rules should be adopted by the legislature and not the courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "47737052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737052", "title": "Edward Hart (settler)", "text": "Edward Hart (settler)\n\nEdward Hart was an early settler of the American Colonies who, as town clerk, wrote the Flushing Remonstrance, a precursor to the United States Constitution's provision on freedom of religion in the Bill of Rights.\n\nLittle is known with any degree of certainty regarding Edward Hart's life before 1640. Genealogical sources give place and date of birth, year and manner of emigration to North America, and first places of residence within the American colonies, but none provide documentary evidence for their assertions. A man named Edward Hart was one of the early settlers of Rhode Island having obtained a plot of land from Roger Williams and signed an agreement for the government of Providence in 1640. This man married a woman named Margaret whose surname is unknown. There is no definite evidence that this Edward Hart is the same as the Edward Hart of Flushing, Long Island, but sources generally accept that he is.\n\nAlthough there is some level of uncertainty about his prior whereabouts, there is no doubt that on October 10, 1645, Hart was one of 18 men who received a charter from the Dutch governor of New Netherland, William Kieft, to establish the town of Vlissingen (i.e., Flushing) in Long Island. Three of these men came to Flushing from Rhode Island and may have known Hart there. The others, so far as is known, came from Massachusetts, Connecticut, or other towns in Long Island.\n\nIn 1642, after efforts to attract Dutch immigrants had disappointing results, the administration in New Netherland and its parent governors in Amsterdam began to accept applications from English settlers to form towns on Long Island. These settlers brought with them the forms of government common in the settlements of New England. Based on practices common in English towns, these were generally more liberal than the ones granted to New Netherland's Dutch communities and the charter granted to the applicants from Flushing was no exception. Having obtained privileges of self-government that were not granted to the towns where Dutch settlers resided, the settlers from New England were energetic in defending and where possible expanding these rights against efforts of the administration in New Amsterdam to erode them.\n\nIn 1648 Hart, as one of Flushing's landholders, joined with four other men to protest the payment of tithes to the pastor of a state-sponsored church and to question the manner of choosing the town's sole magistrate, the schout, who acted as court officer, prosecutor, and sheriff. On January 17 of that year the government of New Netherland, now headed by Peter Stuyvesant summoned the five men to answer for this resistance to the authorities in New Netherland and ordered them to accept the Dutch method for electing their schout.\n\nStuyvesant did not relent in his efforts to require the inhabitants of Flushing to support a pastor of his choosing nor did he change the method for electing a schout. However, a few months later he expanded local government by granting the town's freeholders the right to elect three additional magistrates, called schaepens, and a clerk. The election of the officials would be subject to confirmation by the New Netherland government but in practice the town's nominations of its officials were routinely accepted. Although there is some doubt about the names and terms of early clerks, it is certain that Hart was clerk in 1656 for in July of that year he signed himself clerk in responding on behalf of the town's schout and schaepens to a demand from the New Netherland government for payment of a tenth of the town's agricultural production as annual tax as provided in its charter. Hart's letter said that Flushing was \"willing to do that which is reasonable and honest\" and proposed an amount of produce (\"fiftie scipple of peas and twentie-five of wheat\") which was apparently acceptable. That he continued as clerk in 1657 is shown by a letter of his dated January 23, 1657, affirming the town's rights and privileges and complaining that the neighboring town of Hempstead was encroaching on its lands.\n\nThe next document bearing Hart's signature as clerk is the famous Flushing Remonstrance of December 27, 1657. The towns settled by immigrants from New England were generally granted charters recognizing their right to freedom of conscience but not freedom of religion. In the case of Flushing, the relevant clause granted the original patentees the right \"to have and Enjoy the Liberty of Conscience, according of Religion; to the Custome and manner of Holland, without molestacōn or disturbance, from any Magistrate or Magistrates, or any other Ecclesiasticall Minister, that may extend Jurisdiccōn over them.\" In practice this meant that men would not be prosecuted for religious practices that did not strongly contradict those of the Dutch Reformed Church which was the official public church in Holland. It also meant that personal beliefs that were contrary to the tenets of the established church would be tolerated so long as they were kept private and expressed only in the narrow circle of the family. Meetings for the public expression of dissenting worship would be prosecuted. Although the early settlers of Flushing complied with these strictures, some of them came into conflict with Stuyvesant and the New Netherlands government when charismatic speakers began to come among them proclaiming nonconformist beliefs. Believing that Quakers posed the most serious threat to religious and civil tranquility, the administration in New Amsterdam proclaimed that any person who took a Quaker into his home, even for a single night, would be fined fifty pounds and that any ships bringing any Quaker into the province would be confiscated. The schout, magistrates, of Flushing, along with twenty-eight other freeholders of that town and two from neighboring Jamaica recognized that they could not, in conscience, obey this regulation and signed a protest, the Remonstrance, explaining why they could not comply. The document says Quakers are not seducers of the people nor are they \"destructive unto magistracy and ministers\" but—along with Presbyterians, Independents, and Baptists—are members of the \"household of faith\" who, when they \"come unto us, we cannot in conscience lay violent hands upon them, but give them free ingress and egress unto our town and houses, so as God shall persuade our consciences.\" It closes by saying that the signatories \"desire to be true subjects both of church and state\" according to the law of God and also to the provisions of the town's charter.\n\nThe collections of colonial documents of this period contain many protests against government actions, but none of such historic import or eloquence of expression as this. The Remonstrance \"concretely illustrates the seventeenth century practice of speaking Scripture\" and is \"an unusually rich display of rhetoric and fine English style.\" It gives forceful religious arguments for tolerance of other religions and the separation of church and state. Nonetheless it is framed on Dutch law, adheres closely to legal forms, and contains nothing that might be construed as politically rebellious.\n\nThe signers of the Remonstrance followed correct procedure in having the town schout, Tobias Feake, submit it to the provincial schout, Nicasius de Sille. De Sille passed it on to Stuyvesant who immediately ordered de Sille to arrest and imprison Feake. A few days later—January 1, 1658—he also ordered the arrest of two of the town's magistrates, Thomas Farrington and William Noble, and on January 3 he summoned Hart to testify. Under examination by Stuyvesant and two councilors, Hart said that the Remonstrance contained the sentiments of the community as expressed in a town meeting, that some who were not present at the meeting signed afterward, and that he did not know who called the meeting or who had drafted the document for the community's consideration. Having suffered imprisonment for three weeks Hart wrote the governor and council on January 28 requesting to be released. He acknowledged no offense and made no excuse for writing the Remonstrance but begged mercy and consideration for his \"poore estate and Condition\" and promised that he would \"indeavor hereafter to walke inoffensively.\" The council responded the same day. The record of its decision says something about his performance as town clerk and his standing in the community:In Council received and read the foregoing petition of the imprisoned Clerk of Vlissingen, Edward Hart, and having considered his verbal promises of better behavior and the mediation of some inhabitants of said village, also that he has always been an efficient officer and as an old resident is well acquainted with divers matters; further whereas the Schout Tobias Feakx has advised him to draw up the remonstrance recorded on the first of January and he is burdened with a large family,\n\nThe Director-General and Council forgive and pardon his error this time on condition of his paying the costs and misses of law. On March 26 the director-general and council passed an ordinance intended to prevent the town from ever again submitting a \"seditious and mutinous\" document like the Remonstrance. Saying that \"all the late Schouts successively have manifested no small negligence,\" it added new qualifications for the office aimed at obtaining persons \"better versed in Dutch Practice, and somewhat conversant in both languages, the English and Dutch.\" It also prohibited town meetings for conducting ordinary business and, in their place, instituted a town council consisting of seven persons to assist the schout and magistrates and it required the town to acquire and maintain \"an Orthodox Minister\" to conduct religious services.\n\nHart gave somewhat inconsistent statements in his interrogation by Stuyvesant, de Sille, and Tonneman, saying first that he drew up the Remonstrance on the order of those who signed it in order to record the \"opinion of the people\" of the town and then saying that he had prepared it before the town meeting at which he submitted it for consideration. He pleaded ignorance concerning the responsibility of any specific individuals as instigators prior to the town meeting. Pressed to explain his inconsistent testimony he said the draft he prepared prior to the meeting contained \"what he thought to be the opinion of the people.\" The questions submitted to Hart show that Stuyvesant and the two councilors suspected that the four town officials who signed the document (the schout, two magistrates, and Hart) bore primary responsibility for it. After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible. Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault. It says that most of the men who signed the Remonstrance were \"urged to subscribe by the previous signatures of the Schout, Clerk and some Magistrates.\"\n\nHistorians who have considered this subject have not agreed about who took the lead in preparing the Remonstrance and, as a result, it is not known which of its signers most inspired its moving appeal for freedom of conscience. Some maintain that the schout, Feake, was mainly responsible. Others say it was mainly Hart's doing or that, at least, the language was his. One says that the four town officials were more or less equally responsible. Many accounts say that the responsibility was communal. One author makes a case for a strong influence of Baptist beliefs among those who signed the document.\n\nThere is little information about Hart following his pardoning and release from prison. In 1660 and 1661 his name appears as a witness on deeds for transfer of land and in the latter year he was listed as a tax collector in Flushing. On April 13, 1662, Hart wrote Stuyvesant on behalf of Flushing residents to request help in dealing with three Indians \"who demand pay for the Land wee live vpon\" and later that year (June 26) A man whose name is given as Eduart Hart obtained a translation from the Notary Public in New Amsterdam. After that there is no assured documentary evidence regarding him. The last references to a man who is supposed to have been Hart are in records of land transfer. In 1679 a man named Robert West acquired land originally owned by an Edward Hart in Providence, R.I. and in 1707 land formerly owned by him is referred to in a deed filed by a man named William Field. It is likely but not certain that this Edward Hart is the same as the one who wrote the Remonstrance.\n\nHart's life after 1662 is described from inferences lacking a clear documentary trail. With his wife, Margaret, he is said to have had two sons, Thomas and Jonathan. Hart having returned to Rhode Island and then died, his wife is supposed to have remarried. Some genealogical and other sources say that Jonathan Hart died in Newtown, Long Island, in 1671, however \"Early Wills of Westchester County, New York, from 1664 to 1784\" by William Smith Pelletreau (Francis P. Harper, New York, 1898) says that the family of one Monmouth Hart of Rye, New York, is descended from an Edmund Hart who signed the Flushing Remonstrance and that his son, Jonathan Hart, came to Rye in 1685 and subsequently married Hannah Budd. Thomas Hart is said to have married Freeborn Williams, a daughter of Roger Williams and this fact is supported by a note in \"The genealogical dictionary of Rhode Island\" by John Osborne Austin (Joel Munsells Sons, Albany, 1887). The note says that the Edward Hart who was granted land in Providence and subsequently signed the civil compact of 1640 was the husband of a woman named Margaret and the two were parents of a son named Thomas. It says that this son lived in Newport, Rhode Island, and was husband of Freeborn Williams, daughter of Roger Williams and his wife Mary. Although most sources accept that this Edward Hart is the same man as the one who drafted the Remonstrance, they offer no evidence to support their inference.\n\nIn 1789 all the records of the town of Flushing were destroyed in a fire and in 1911 a fire caused serious damage to the manuscripts of the New Netherland colony. Although no copies had been made of the Flushing documents and they were thus lost forever, many of the Dutch colonial documents had been transcribed and printed prior to the 1911 fire.\n"}
{"id": "39856685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39856685", "title": "Egyptian Constitution of 1882", "text": "Egyptian Constitution of 1882\n\nThe Constitution of 1879 was the same constitution as 1879 in Egypt. It replaced the Constitution of 1876.\n\n"}
{"id": "26620008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26620008", "title": "Election Law Journal", "text": "Election Law Journal\n\nElection Law Journal: Rules, Politics, and Policy is a quarterly peer-reviewed law journal published by Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. covering legal issues related to elections and voting rights. It was established in 2002 with Daniel H. Lowenstein (UCLA School of Law) and Richard L. Hasen (Loyola Law School) as founding editors-in-chief. , the editors are Daniel P. Tokaji (Moritz College of Law) and Paul Gronke (Reed College). The journal is abstracted and indexed in Westlaw and International Political Science Abstracts/Documentation Politique Internationale.\n"}
{"id": "17789212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17789212", "title": "European Authorized Representative", "text": "European Authorized Representative\n\nA European Authorised Representative (E.A.R.) serves as a legal entity designated by non European Union (EU) manufacturers, to represent them in the EU and ensure their compliance with the European Directives.\n\nRegulation of goods produced by manufactures outside of the European Union, especially in the medical devices industry, instigated the need for Authorised Representatives. As clarified in the Medical Devices Directive amendment (93/42/EEC), it is required that alongside the CE mark all products must also have an Authorised Representative. As stated in this amendment, an Authorised Representative should serve as a contact point with the EU member states competent authorities.\n\nAn E.A.R. holds the responsibility to act as a neutral party between the competent authorities and the non EU manufacturers. They must ensure the manufacturer’s compliance with the conformity assessment procedure set out in the European directives which apply to the manufacture’s product. The EAR must uphold dual accountability with the manufactures if problems or questions arise regarding the product. The E.A.R. must provide their contact information for the manufacturer to place on the products, allowing the E.A.R. to be the primary contact for EU authorities.\n\nAn E.A.R. observes the manufacturer's compliance with the conformity assessment procedure set out in the European directives which apply to the product.\n\nThey ensure the law is met by having Class I medical devices registered with the Competent Authorities before being placed on the market.\n\nThey ensure their contact information is available to the manufactures to be placed on all the products they are representing, thus acting as a primary contact for the EU Authorities.\n\nThey must notify EU Authorities of all major incidents pertaining to products.\n\nAn E.A.R. must understand all EU regulations from each of the EU member states as well as the four European Free Trade Association (EFTA) states, and provide notification of changes and amendments to directives that affect individual products.\n\nThey must keep the product’s technical file available at any time for the EU member states authorities and maintain confidentiality with manufacturer's sensitive product information, releasing them only to the appropriate authorities when called upon.\n\n\nGUIDELINE FOR AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVES\n\nhttp://ec.europa.eu/health/medical-devices/files/meddev/2_5_10_ol_en.pdf\n"}
{"id": "28166709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28166709", "title": "Exception in deed", "text": "Exception in deed\n\nIn property law, the phrase exception in deed refers to a statement in a deed of real estate which reserves certain rights to the transferor (for example, easements, mineral rights, or a life estate).\n\n"}
{"id": "20896162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20896162", "title": "Executive Order 13355", "text": "Executive Order 13355\n\nExecutive Order 13355 is a United States Presidential executive order signed on August 27, 2004, by President George W. Bush.\nIts goal was \"Strengthened Management of the Intelligence Community\".\nIt supplemented and partially superseded Executive Order 12333, signed in 1981 by President Ronald Reagan, and was in turn partially supplemented and superseded by Executive Order 13470.\n\nMany of the clauses of the new executive order changed how US intelligence agencies were governed, and how they ultimately reported to the President, to reflect that when Executive Order 12333 was signed, the DCI Director of Central Intelligence was also the nominal chief of all US intelligence agencies. \nPresident Bush had created a new position, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), and the changes reflected that the US intelligence agencies were to report to the President through the DNI.\n"}
{"id": "21073206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21073206", "title": "Fair Trade Commission (Taiwan)", "text": "Fair Trade Commission (Taiwan)\n\nThe Fair Trade Commission (FTC; ) is an independent government agency subordinate to the Executive Yuan which is responsible for competition policy, trade practices, formulating fair trade policy, laws, regulations, investigating activities restricting competition, such as monopolies, mergers, collusions, cartels, and other unfair trade practices on the part of enterprises in the Republic of China (Taiwan).\n\nThe FTC is different from other foreign government regulators in that the Consumer Protection functions is administered by the Consumer Protection Committee.\n\nThe Fair Trade Commission was created in 1992 to regulate competition and enforced trade practices. It has the powers to investigate illegal activities such as predatory pricing, collusion, cartels, mergers and other unfair trade practices that hurt choices, prices, create monopolies and reduce competition.\n\n\n\nThe building is accessible within walking distance South West from Shandao Temple Station of the Taipei Metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46350185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46350185", "title": "Frost &amp; Sutcliffe v Tuiara", "text": "Frost &amp; Sutcliffe v Tuiara\n\nFrost & Sutcliffe v Tuiara [2004] 1 NZLR 782; (2003) 10 TCLR 912 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding whether a party owes another party concurrent duties in contract and in tort.\n\nFrost & Sutcliffe were a law firm that represented the Tuiara's in a buyback agreement on their Mangere home, for which they also acted as the legal representatives of the finance company involved. The law firm gave them the following legal advice:\n\n19 March 1999\n\nRe: Sale of your property at 21 Ashley Avenue, Mangere. To Richmond Thornby Holdings Limited and Repurchase.\n\nYou have been asked to sell your property to Richmond Thornby Holdings Limited which will pay you only $8,000.00 now and will resell it to you in 6 weeks.\n\nWe note our advices to you as to our concern at advising family as regards to transaction of this type. This is especially the case when their own home is placed at risk. My initial advice to you would be “don’t”.\n\nI record however, that you have decided that you do wish to proceed with the arrangement.\n\nThe effect of registration of the sale will mean that you have lost your home if anything goes wrong.\nAs advised, if for any reason Richmond Thornby Holdings Limited can’t get a release of the mortgage it will take on the property, effectively you will have lost your house and have to start again. You will have a right against the security the Company grants but this would be likely to be of no value.\n\nWe note that at this stage you have satisfied yourselves the Company will be in a position to repurchase the property from you in 6 weeks.\n\nTo summarise, our advice simply is it is better not to proceed with the transaction. We note however that you wish to assist your family, and you have done so in the full knowledge that the transaction is a financial risk to you and you may suffer financially in the event the Company being unable to complete the resale of the house for you.\n\nWe note we have strongly recommended you consult an independent Solicitor in respect of the matter but you have declined to so.\nYours faithfully\"\nFROST & SUTCLIFFE\n\nAt trial, the Tuiara's denied they had ever received this letter, but the court disagreed with them on this.\n\nThe Tuiara's eventually followed through on the deal, accepting an $8,000 payment in return for temporarily transferring title of their house to a 3rd party.\n\nSoon after entering into the agreement, the finance company involved went into liquidation, resulting in the Tuiara's losing their house.\n\nThey later sued the law firm for breach of contract, as well as for negligence in tort, with the Tuiara's claiming that Sutcliffe had encouraged them to proceed on the deal.\n\nThe High Court ruled that whilst they did not breach their fiduciary duty owed under contract, they did breach the duty of care they owed in tort.\n\nThe Court of Appeal allowed the law firms appeal.\n"}
{"id": "43997281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43997281", "title": "Garcia v. Google, Inc.", "text": "Garcia v. Google, Inc.\n\nGarcia v. Google, Inc., 786 F.3d 733 (9th Cir. 2015), is an ongoing dispute that arose when Cindy Lee Garcia sued Google and its video-sharing website, YouTube, to have the controversial film, \"Innocence of Muslims\", taken down from the site. A California district court denied Garcia's motion for preliminary injunction, but, on appeal, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the lower court's decision, ordered YouTube to take down all copies of \"Innocence of Muslims\", and remanded the case to the district court for reconsideration. In May 2015, in an en banc opinion, the Ninth Circuit reversed the panel's decision, vacating the order for the preliminary injunction.\n\nIn July 2011, Garcia auditioned for a film by writer and producer Mark Basseley Youssef, also known as Nakoula Basseley Nakoula, with the working title \"Desert Warrior\". A casting call described the film as \"an HD 24P historical Arabian Desert adventure film,\" and Garcia was ultimately cast to play a minor role, that of a mother of a young woman who had been promised in marriage to the movie's protagonist. Garcia participated in three and one-half days of shooting and was paid $500 for her work.\n\nUltimately, Youssef used the footage from \"Desert Warrior\" to create the controversial anti-Islamic film, \"Innocence of Muslims\". He added the anti-Islamic content to the film by dubbing over the actors' lines without their knowledge. In particular, Youssef had partially dubbed one of Garcia's lines in order to have her character ask, \"Is your Mohammed a child molester?\" \"Innocence of Muslims\" screened at the Vine Theater in Los Angeles, California and was uploaded to YouTube on July 1. By September 2012, Youssef had translated the film into Arabic and drew the attention of the Arabic-speaking world.\n\nAn Egyptian cleric issued a fatwa, condemning all involved with the film to death. On September 11, 2012, a series of protests began in response to a YouTube trailer for \"Innocence of Muslims\". While the protests began at the diplomatic mission in Cairo, Egypt, unrest quickly spread to several other countries with significant Muslim populations, including Yemen, Greece, Sudan, Tunisia, India, Indonesia, and Pakistan. Garcia herself received death threats due to her involvement with the film.\n\nGarcia asked Google to take down the film from YouTube on eight different occasions pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. After Google declined, Garcia sued the company in federal district court in California. She claimed that the film's continued existence on YouTube violated her copyright interest in her performance in the film. She applied to the court for a temporary restraining order to force Google to take down the film.\n\nThe district court treated Garcia's application for a temporary restraining order as an application for a preliminary injunction. To succeed on a claim for preliminary injunction, Garcia had to show four factors: a likelihood that she would succeed on the merits of the copyright claim, the likelihood that irreparable harm will result if the court does not grant the injunction, and the balance of the equity to the parties and the public interest in granting or denying relief. The court denied the application \"because Garcia had delayed in bringing the action, had failed to demonstrate 'that the requested preliminary relief would prevent any alleged harm' and was unlikely to succeed on the merits because she'd granted Youssef an implied license to use her performance in the film.\"\n\nThe Ninth Circuit reversed the district court's decision denying Garcia a preliminary injunction, forcing Google to take down all copies of \"Innocence of Muslims\" from YouTube. The Ninth Circuit also remanded the case for retrial on the merits of Garcia's copyright claim.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit held that Garcia was entitled to a preliminary injunction because she was likely to succeed on the merits of her copyright claim. The court determined that Garcia likely owned an independent, copyrightable interest in her own performance in the film. Specifically, the court explained that Garcia's performance was \"fixed\" and that her \"body language, facial expression and reactions to other actors and elements of a scene\" constituted sufficient originality, both requirements of the Copyright Act of 1976. Further, the court concluded that Garcia never intended to be a \"joint author,\" so Youssef had no co-ownership of her performance in the film.\n\nAdditionally, the court determined that Garcia was not an \"employee\" for purposes of transferring her ownership interest in her performance under the Copyright Act. The court pointed out that the term \"employee\" refers \"to a hired party in a conventional employer relationship.\" According to the court, because \"Youssef hired Garcia for a specific task, she only worked for three days and she claims she received no health or other traditional employment benefits\" suggests that she was not an \"employee\" under the statute. Garcia never transferred her interest in writing, either.\n\nOn November 12, 2014, the full Ninth Circuit voted to rehear the case en banc. As part of that order, the court vacated its prior opinion, meaning that it can no longer be cited and is not binding on lower courts. The order has no effect on the injunction, meaning that Google still may not post the allegedly infringing portions of the film, at least for the time being.\n\nIn May 2015, in an en banc opinion, the Ninth Circuit reversed the panel's decision, vacating the order for the preliminary injunction.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit's decision has sparked criticism from the legal community as well as those who produce, distribute, or host copyrighted content.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (\"EFF\") has criticized the court's decision for several reasons. First, \"the Copyright Office expressly rejected [Garcia's] effort to register a copyright,\" suggesting that her claim is \"doubtful at best.\" Second, the EFF argues that the court's decision amounts to a \"prior restraint of speech, something that should never happen when the claim is 'doubtful.'\" Even worse, the EFF argues, the decision may signal that any party who has added \"anything even remotely creative to a work\" may have the right to receive a share in the profits of that work, and he or she may have the power to remove that work from circulation.\n\nClark D. Asay, associate professor of law at Brigham Young University, reiterates some of the EFF's concerns. He suggests that the Ninth Circuit's decision could lead to censorship, wherein a small contributor to a creative work can effectively close off public access to the work. He also argues that the decision undercuts the utilitarian purpose of copyright law.\n\nStefan M. Mentzer, a partner at White & Case, LLP, argues that the court misinterpreted certain provisions of the Copyright Act.\n\nIn September 2014, Gaylor Flynn, another actor who appeared in \"Innocence of Muslims\", sued Google in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging copyright infringement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6752098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6752098", "title": "Institution of Fire Engineers", "text": "Institution of Fire Engineers\n\nThe Institution of Fire Engineers (IFE) is a worldwide body that provides research, training, conferences and professional qualifications for firefighters and civilians who work in fields related to fire fighting, the science of fire fighting and prevention, and related technology.\n\nThe IFE was established in 1918 and upholds professional standards within all public and private fire sectors by offering assessment of knowledge, experience and development and engages with major stakeholders to offer international conferences, identify and promote good practice and enhance technical networks worldwide. The IFE is also an Ofqual recognised Awarding Organisation.\n\nMembers are involved in a number of areas such as: fire dynamics including ignition, chemistry and toxicology; consultations with government in the drafting and implementation of fire safety legislation and regulations; structural fire protection of buildings; fire insurance and arson investigation; behaviour pattern of persons faced with emergencies; fire detection and alarm systems, fire appliances and automatic fire fighting systems\nSpecialist interest groups include Fire modelling, heritage buildings, transport, fire investigation and research.\n\nGrades of membership: Affiliate, Student, Technician (TIFireE), Graduate (GIFireE), Associate (AIFireE), Member (MIFireE), Fellow (FIFireE).\n\nThe mission of the Institution is encourage and improve the science and practice of fire extinction, fire prevention and fire engineering and all operations and expedients connected therewith, and to give an impulse to ideas likely to be useful in connection with or in relation to such science and practice to the members of the Institution and to the community at large.\n\nThe IFE has c. 10,000 members with 19 UK branches and 22 International branches.\n\nThe IFE has been a licensed member of the Engineering Council since 2007 and can register those members that meet the necessary criteria as Chartered Engineers (CEng), Incorporated Engineers (IEng) or Engineering Technicians (EngTech).Number of professionally registered members in 2011 were;\n• 173 EngTech\n• 32 IEng\n• 238 CEng\n\nThe Institution also manages a Register of Fire Risk Assessors and Auditors.\n\nThe IFE head office moved to Stratford upon Avon, Warwickshire in 2011 from its former home at the Fire Service College at Moreton in Marsh.\n\nAffiliate - The title of Affiliate is available for individual fire engineers with an interest in fire engineering, who wish to take part in the IFE's activities but have not, at this stage, met the requirements of a membership grade. Affiliate members are entitled to such rights and privileges as non-corporate members. Affiliate members may make reference to their affiliation to the IFE.\n\nStudent – Applicants for Student grade membership will be required to be following a recognised ongoing programme of study. You may be a Student member of the IFE for up to five years, at which point you will be required to upgrade your membership or transfer to Affiliate status. An ongoing programme of study is suggested to run for at least 6 months, the IFE Examinations are also accepted as attaining these requirements. Evidence of study will be required at the time of application.\n\nTechnician (TIFireE )– Passed IFE Level 3 Certificate, or have relevant academic qualifications plus the necessary experience. Applicants will also have met the relevant Initial Professional Development (IPD) criteria in:\nKnowledge and understanding of engineering technology.\nContribution to the design, development, manufacture, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance of products, equipment, processes, systems and services.\nThe acceptance and exercise of personal responsibility, use of effective communication and interpersonal skills and to have made a personal commitment to adhere to the code of professional conduct.\n\nGraduate (GIFireE) – Hold the IFE Level 3 Diploma, or have relevant academic qualifications, or UK Station Officer Examinations plus three years of acceptable training and experience\n\nAssociate (AIFireE) – Hold the IFE Level 4 Certificate or an equivalent qualification in a relevant subject and have the support of two corporate IFE members.\n\nMember (MIFireE) – Hold the IFE Level 4 Certificate or an equivalent qualification in a relevant subject. Applicants will also need the support of two corporate IFE members and have met the relevant initial professional development (IPD) criteria in the following areas:\n\nKnowledge and understanding, theoretical and practical application, provision of technical and managerial leadership, management and supervision skills and to have made a personal commitment to adhere to the code of professional conduct.\n\nFellow (FIFireE) – Available to existing Members who have demonstrated significant individual responsibility, sustained achievement and exceptional professionalism during his/her career.\n\nTHE 1914-18 war was drawing to a close when the suggestion to form a professional\nassociation of fire engineers was first brought forward. On 31 October 1918,\nten Chief Officers attended a meeting held at the Fire Brigade Headquarters in\nLeicester for the purpose of setting up such an organisation. \nThe next meeting took place on 2 January 1919, in London, when it was\nannounced that 40 Chief Officers had agreed to become members.\nIn 1924 the way was opened for an application for Incorporation to be made officially\nwith the blessing of all concerned. This was done immediately and at a meeting in\nLondon on 12 February 1924, authority was given to go ahead.\nThe first registered office was at the offices of the Solicitors in Edinburgh and this\nmeant that the Institution was first registered in Scotland and has been ever since.\nIn the event registration in Scotland has had its disadvantages since a registered\noffice has had to be maintained in Scotland to this day, despite the fact that since at\nleast 1934 all the day-to-day work has been carried out in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "11710089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11710089", "title": "International copyright relations of Russia", "text": "International copyright relations of Russia\n\nThe international copyright relations of Russia were virtually non-existent for much of the Imperial era continuing into the history of the Soviet Union until the Cold War. The Russian Empire had only a few bilateral copyright treaties with other nations were concluded; these treaties moreover were weak and of short duration. The treaties from Imperial times had all expired by the time of the Russian Revolution.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the Soviet Union had no international copyright relations until 1967, when a first treaty with Hungary was concluded. In 1973, the USSR then joined the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC), establishing copyright relations with Western countries. More bilateral treaties followed, including two with Western countries (Austria in 1981 and Sweden in 1986), until the government announced its intention to join the Berne Convention in 1989. The USSR was dissolved before that plan could be realized. The Russian Federation acceded to the Berne Convention in 1994; the treaty entered in force in Russia on March 13, 1995.\n\nFirst international copyright treaties were concluded in Spring 1861 with France and in July 1862 with Belgium. Both treaties provided for reciprocal copyright protection, but were limited to literature only; translation rights were not covered, and censorship was explicitly allowed. Both treaties were abrogated in 1887.\n\nUnder Western pressure, new treaties were concluded in 1904 with Germany, in 1905 with France, and in 1906 with Austria-Hungary. After the new copyright law of 1911 was passed, new or renewed treaties were concluded with Germany (1911), France (1911), Belgium (1913/14), and Denmark (1915). All these treaties provided for reciprocal copyright protection and also included the author's translation rights, which were protected for a period of ten years from the original publication of a work. These treaties were of short duration only and expired after three to five years. Tsarist Russia even planned to join the Berne Convention in the early 20th century, but that was, according to Stoyanovitch, prevented by the outbreak of World War I.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the Soviet Union initially had no international copyright relations at all. During the period of the New Economic Policy (NEP), the Soviet regime unsuccessfully tried to conclude new bilateral copyright treaties with Great Britain, Germany, and Italy. After these failed attempts, the USSR maintained an isolationist policy in copyright matters until the late 1960s. A first bilateral copyright treaty with Hungary became effective on November 17, 1967, and on October 8, 1971, a second treaty with Bulgaria followed. Both treaties provided for reciprocal copyright protection with a general term of 15 years p.m.a. and also explicitly defined reciprocity for free uses.\n\nOn February 27, 1973, the Soviet Union deposited with the UNESCO its declaration of accession to the Geneva version of 1952 of the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC). Three months later, on May 27, 1973, the UCC entered in force with respect to the USSR, establishing copyright relations with Western countries. The USSR timed its accession to the UCC to occur before the 1971 Paris version of the UCC entered in force. Once the Paris version had become effective, accessions to the earlier Geneva version were no longer possible. The USSR would then have been forced to implement the somewhat stronger provisions of the 1971 Paris version, which in particular explicitly recognized an author's exclusive rights to reproduction, performance, and broadcast of a work. Such neighbouring rights did not exist in Soviet law.\n\nWith the accession of the Soviet Union to the UCC, Soviet works published on or after May 27, 1973 became eligible to copyright in all other signatory countries of the UCC. Conversely, foreign works became copyrighted in the Soviet Union by virtue of the UCC if they were published on or after May 27, 1973 and the publication occurred in a UCC country or the author was a citizen of a UCC country.\n\nThere were initially fears in the West that the Soviet authorities could misuse the provisions of the UCC to censor undesirable works abroad: the regime could compulsorily purchase the copyright on such works without the authors' consent and then sue in foreign courts against the publication of Soviet works abroad, since the copyright would be owned by the state. However, this did not occur. Evidently, the Soviet authorities considered the measures provided by its other laws—in particular articles 70 and 190(1) of the RSFSR Criminal Code on anti-Soviet agitation—sufficient to deal with dissidents without needing to resort to actions based on the copyright law. Furthermore, such actions would have badly damaged the prestige of the USSR abroad, and it was doubtful whether foreign countries would have honored such nationalizations. The U.S. included in its Copyright law of 1976 an article 201(e) that explicitly invalidated all involuntary transfers of copyright. This provision was included in the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 precisely to prevent attempts of the Soviet government to employ the UCC to censor dissidents' works in the U.S.—although no such attempts had occurred yet and didn't occur afterwards.\n\nDespite having joined the UCC, the Soviet Union continued its policy of bilateral agreements. New treaties with the German Democratic Republic (effective November 21, 1973), Poland (October 4, 1974), and Czechoslovakia (March 18, 1975) were concluded. The 1967 treaty with Hungary had already been prolonged in 1971 and was again renewed in 1977, the treaty with Bulgaria was renewed in 1975. The treaties with Hungary and Czechoslovakia also included a provision for the protection of the moral rights \"without limitation in time\". In 1981, the first bilateral treaty with a Western country was signed: the copyright treaty with Austria entered in force on December 16, 1981. On May 30, 1985, a treaty with Cuba followed, and in 1986 the second treaty with a Western country was concluded with Sweden. All these post-UCC treaties went beyond the provisions of the UCC because they were applied retroactively and explicitly applied also to works published \"before\" the USSR had joined the UCC and that were still copyrighted in their source country in 1973. (The treaty with Austria was amended to cover such pre-1973 works in 1989.) On April 19, 1989, another copyright treaty with Madagascar was concluded. The treaty with the German Democratic Republic was rescinded by the USSR on June 2, 1991, following confusions about its continued applicability after the German reunification.\n\nOn October 20, 1988, the USSR acceded to the Brussels Convention about measures against the unauthorized (re-)distribution of satellite transmissions. The treaty became effective for Russia from January 20, 1989 on. Also in 1989, the Soviet government announced its intention to join the Berne Convention, but the USSR was dissolved before that plan could be realized.\n\nThe changing economy in the Soviet Union led to the conclusion of a trade treaty between the USSR and the United States, signed by presidents Gorbachev and Bush on June 1, 1990. In this treaty, the U.S. imposed a number of measures in the field of intellectual property in exchange for granting the USSR most-favoured-nation status. The treaty obliged the USSR to accede to the Berne Convention and to implement in its law a neighbouring rights scheme similar to what the Rome Convention laid down. The USSR agreed in the treaty to take substantive steps to amend its legislation in that sense by 1991. The treaty was ratified by the U.S. on December 23, 1991. The Soviet side no longer could do so, but the Russian Federation did so on June 12, 1992.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union was dissolved, Russia as the largest successor state adopted all international obligations of the former USSR, including its membership to the UCC. Consequently, Russia was henceforth considered a member of the UCC (in the 1952 Geneva text) since the date of the adherence of the USSR to that treaty, i.e., since May 27, 1973. The membership of the USSR in the Brussels Convention was equally continued by the Russian Federation as from December 25, 1991.\n\nOn June 25, 1993, Russia and Armenia signed a treaty on the mutual protection of copyrights. To clarify the copyright situation amongst the states that had made up the former Soviet Union, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) nations agreed on a cooperation agreement in the field of copyrights on September 24, 1993. This \"Moscow agreement\" declared that all signatory countries considered themselves bound by the UCC as of the date the USSR had joined and would confirm this state with the UNESCO, which administered the UCC. The treaty also defined that the treaty states would apply the UCC amongst themselves, also for works published before May 27, 1973 if those works had been copyrighted before this date according to the national laws of the successor states. This provision was subject to the rule of the shorter term. The intent of the Moscow agreement was to avoid that older Soviet works became copyrighted in only some of the successor states, but would become part of the public domain in some of the others. The 1993 Moscow agreement entered in force in Russia on May 6, 1995.\n\nDuring the same year, Russia and Switzerland concluded a trade agreement in which they granted each other most-favoured-nation status concerning intellectual property rights, i.e., they agreed to grant the other treaty partner automatically and without conditions any trade advantage they'd grant a third country. This treaty entered in force on July 1, 1995. In a comprehensive trade treaty with the European Union that was signed on June 24, 1994, Russia granted this most-favoured-nation status also to the EU member countries, excepting only trade advantages granted amongst the successor states of the USSR and also those Russia would grant a third country on an effective reciprocal basis. Because the ratification of this treaty was delayed as it had to be ratified by all EU members, an interim agreement containing only the provisions on intellectual property and the most-favoured-nation status was signed on July 17, 1995. It entered in force on February 1, 1996.\n\nOn November 3, 1994, the Russian government announced that the country would join three international treaties in the field of copyrights: the 1971 Paris version of the UCC including its annexes, the Geneva Phonograms Convention on unauthorized duplication and parallel import of phonograms, and the Berne Convention. The accession documents to all three treaties were deposited on December 9, 1994. The UCC (Paris 1971 version) became effective for Russia on March 9, 1995. The Geneva Convention entered in force with respect to Russia on March 13, 1995 and was not retroactive: it covered only phonograms recorded after that date.\n\nThe Berne Convention also became effective for Russia on March 13, 1995. The Berne Convention \"is\" retroactive in principle: according to its article 18, it applies to all works that are copyrighted in their source country (the country where the first publication of the work occurred) on the day the treaty enters in force with respect to a joining country such as Russia. Article 18(2) adds that if \"through the expiry of the term of protection which was previously granted, a work has fallen into the public domain of the country where protection is claimed, that work shall not be protected anew.\" Hence works that were copyrighted in Russia on March 13, 1995 became copyrighted in all other Berne Countries on that date. Under these provisions, foreign works not formerly copyrighted in Russia should also have become copyrighted in Russia. Russian legal scholars had warned of this, and the government feared the impacts on the trade balance with Western countries if Russian publishers would suddenly have to pay royalties for foreign works. In its declaration of accession, Russia therefore made a reservation regarding article 18 of the Berne Convention, stating that the treaty \"shall not extend to the works which, at the date of entry into force of the said Convention in respect of the Russian Federation, are already in the public domain in its territory.\" For Russian and Soviet work that originated in Russia, this was just a restatement of article 18(1) of the Berne Convention; but as far as foreign works were concerned, this reservation effectively denied the retroactivity of the Berne Convention within Russia. This was of some importance because of the issue of foreign works published before May 27, 1973, when the USSR had joined the UCC. Such works had never been eligible to copyright in the Soviet Union or in Russia. Under §18(2) of the Berne Convention, they should have become copyrighted in 1995 because that article only exempted works that once \"were\" copyrighted, but on which that copyright already had expired, which didn't apply to pre-1973 foreign works in Russia. The reservation made by Russia used a slightly different phrasing, just stating that works that were in the public domain in Russia in 1995 would not be reprotected. As pre-1973 foreign works were not copyrighted at all and thus in the public domain in Russia in 1995, such works remained in the public domain in Russia. Russia thus got rather favorable conditions when it joined Berne Convention: Russian and Soviet works became copyrighted retroactively in other Berne countries, but pre-1973 works from those other countries did \"not\" become copyrighted in Russia.\n\nThis Russian interpretation was heavily criticized by Western countries and in particular by the United States. Russian scholars, however, repeatedly (and, in the opinion of Elst, rightly) pointed out that there had been a very prominent precedent: in 1989, when the U.S. had joined the Berne Convention, they \"also\" had denied the retroactivity of the treaty. From 1989 until 1995, the U.S. only respected the copyrights under the Berne Convention on foreign works from another country that were published on or after the later of that country's adherence date to the Berne Convention and March 1, 1989 (the adherence date of U.S.), and on foreign works from a UCC country according to the provisions of the UCC, which meant on works that were published after the later of September 16, 1955 (the date the UCC entered in force for the U.S. and the other initial signatories) and the adherence date of the foreign UCC country. In the case of Russian or Soviet works, this meant that until 1996, the U.S. continued to recognize only copyrights on Soviet works published after May 27, 1973. The U.S. faced harsh critique for its unilateral denouncement of the retroactivity of the Berne Convention defined in article 18(1) BC. Ultimately, the U.S. had to reverse its position on that issue. It implemented the TRIPS agreement (a precondition to becoming a WTO member) in its Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA), which was signed into law on December 8, 1994. The URAA effectively restored the copyright in the U.S. on foreign works on January 1, 1996, if those works were until then not copyrighted in the U.S. because of a failure to meet the U.S. formalities (such as not bearing a copyright notice, or lacking registration with the U.S. Copyright Office) or because of a lack of international treaties between the U.S. and the source country of the work, if the work was still copyrighted in its source country on January 1, 1996.\n\nRussian scholars have disputed this retroactivity issue at length. Gavrilov, for instance, who had argued for the Russian reservation to the Berne Convention, kept defending it, while others disagreed. Maggs and Sergeyev, for instance, pointed out in 2000 that the reservation was inadmissible under article 30(1) of the Berne Convention; Podshibikhin and Leontiev agreed in 2002. The modification of the copyright law through law 72-FL in 2004 refuelled the discussion, because this law added a new paragraph 4 to article 5 of the 1993 copyright law which clearly stated under which conditions foreign works were copyrighted in Russia, using a wording that corresponded in essence to articles 18(1) \"and\" 18(2) of the Berne Convention. Nevertheless, Gavrilov continued arguing in favour of the non-protection of pre-1973 foreign works, arguing that this was not so much a reservation to the Berne Convention but merely an interpretation, whereas others considered the 2004 amendments to finally do away with this reservation and claimed that law 72-FL restored copyright in Russia on pre-1973 foreign works. According to the Russian representative at the negotiations on Russia's accession to the WTO, law 72-FL indeed was intended to rescind the non-retroactivity reservation, thereby restoring copyrights on pre-1973 foreign works. The Russian copyright law (already before 2004) also considered international treaties self-executing and to take precedence over the Russian law (article 3). The common practice in Russia nevertheless did not change; pre-1973 foreign works were commonly considered to be uncopyrighted in Russia due to this reservation.\n\nIn 2003, Russia also joined the Rome Convention, the analogue of the Berne Convention for neighbouring rights. The adherence of Russia to the Rome Convention became effective on May 26, 2003. The Rome convention covered performances, phonograms, and broadcasts. For phonograms, it stipulated that phonograms produced by a national of a contracting state, or fixated in a contracting state, or published in a contracting state were covered, but allowed signatory countries to choose among the latter two (article 5). Russia chose to apply the criteria of nationality and publication, declaring the criterion of fixation as inapplicable in its adherence to the treaty. The Rome Convention is non-retroactive and applies only to phonograms created after and to performances or broadcasts that occurred after a country jointed the convention (article 20).\n\nAfter part IV of the Civil Code had entered in force on January 1, 2008, the Russian Federation also acceded on November 5, 2008 to the WIPO Copyright Treaty and to the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (entry in force of both accessions on February 5, 2009). On August 22, 2012, the Russian Federation also became a member of the World Trade Organization.\n\nThe international copyright relations of the Soviet Union and of Russia gave rise to copyright on Soviet works abroad and also to some foreign works becoming copyrighted in the USSR or in Russia. In some cases, Soviet works even became copyrighted in other countries in the absence of any international copyright treaties.\n\nPrior to the accession of the Soviet Union to the UCC, only works by foreign authors that were first published in the USSR and unpublished works of foreign authors that existed in an objective form on the territory of the USSR were eligible to copyright. When the USSR joined the UCC in 1973 and the treaty entered in force with respect to the USSR on May 27, 1973, foreign works first published on or after that date outside of the USSR became copyrighted in the Soviet Union if\n\nIn addition to the UCC, the bilateral treaties the USSR concluded with several countries, amongst them also two Western countries, made works of nationals of these countries eligible for copyright in the Soviet Union, even works published before May 27, 1973. In the case of Austria, Poland, and Sweden, this even applied to any work first published there, irrespective of the nationality of the author.\n\nSince its accession to the Berne Convention in 1995, the following foreign works were copyrighted in Russia:\n\nPre-1973 foreign works of other countries initially were not covered by copyright in Russia. That changed with federal law 72-FL of August 8, 2004, which brought the Russian copyright law in full compliance with the Berne Convention. Since then, foreign works subject to the Berne Convention are copyrighted in Russia if they were copyrighted in the source country when Russia joined the Berne convention (\"i.e.\", in 1995). Russia implements the rule of the shorter term: the copyright term of a foreign work in Russia is the shorter of the copyright term in the source country and the normal 70-years \"p.m.a.\" accorded by Russian law. This situation remained unchanged with the entry in force of the new Part IV of the Russian Civil Code which included a complete rewrite of the copyright law; article 1256 embodies the amendments from law 72-FL.\n\nEven before the accession of the Soviet Union to the UCC in 1973, some Soviet works were copyrighted in some other countries. One well-known case concerned the actions of the four Soviet composers Shostakovich, Khachaturian, Prokofiev, and Myaskovsky against the movie company 20th Century Fox. 20th Century Fox had published a movie called \"The Iron Curtain\", using music of these four composers as background music and crediting the composers. The four Soviet composers initiated legal actions against the movie company, claiming that the use of their names and music in a movie whose theme was objectionable to them and that was unsympathetic to the Soviet ideology libeled them and violated their civil rights. In the U.S., the courts dismissed these claims in \"Shostakovich v. Twentieth Century-Fox\" (80 N.Y.S.2d 575 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1948), affirmed, 87 N.Y.S.2d 430 (N.Y. App. Div. 1949)), in particular because the works of these composers were in the public domain in the U.S. at that time because there were no international treaties relating to copyright between the U.S. and the USSR. The compositions themselves also had not been distorted, so the court found that the composers' moral right to the integrity of the work was not violated.\n\nThe four plaintiffs also went to court over this issue in France. Up to 1964, the French legislation treated both French authors and foreign authors exactly the same; works of both were granted exactly the same copyright protection. In a lawsuit that was ultimately decided by the French Court of Cassation in 1959, the plaintiffs won: the court ruled that works of foreign authors were entitled to copyright in France, and that the works of these four Soviet composers were thus copyrighted in France. It found their moral rights violated and ordered the film to be confiscated.\n\nAnother way by which Soviet works could become copyrighted outside of the Soviet Union was the smuggling of manuscripts out of the USSR to have the work first published abroad. This practice, known as \"tamizdat\" in the Soviet Union, could result in serious repercussions for the authors in the USSR, but was still employed as one of the few ways the governmental censorship could be bypassed. As a side effect, \"tamizdat\" works were granted copyright in the foreign country of first publication. If that country was a signatory of the UCC or the Berne Convention, the work was also granted copyright in all other signatories of these treaties, because they both extended copyright to works of citizens of non-member states, if these works were first published in a member state. A very famous case of a \"tamizdat\" publication was Boris Pasternak's novel \"Doctor Zhivago\", which, after it had been refused by Soviet publishers, was first published in an Italian translation in Italy in 1957. Because Italy was a member of both the UCC and the Berne Convention, the work was entitled to full copyright in all other member states of these two conventions. Pasternak was expelled from the Writers' Union and, after he had been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1958, forced to decline acceptance of the award.\n\nEarly Soviet authors sometimes benefited from international copyright on their works just naturally. Maxim Gorky and Sergei Prokofiev, for instance, both had lived for some time abroad and published works in other countries that were members of the Berne Convention. These works of theirs were copyrighted in all other signatory countries of the Berne Convention. After the case of \"Doctor Zhivago\", Soviet publishers became more aware of this possibility to have Soviet works covered by the Berne Convention. Soviet state organizations began to arrange for (simultaneous) first publication of some Soviet works in a country of the Berne Convention. For instance, Mikhail Sholokov's novel \"They Fought for Their Country\" was officially first published in Italy.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union joined to the UCC, all Soviet works published on or after May 27, 1973 became eligible to copyright in all other signatory countries of the UCC. This state persisted until the dissolution of the USSR. When the USSR disintegrated, so did its copyright law. The split into fifteen independent states translated into a split into fifteen independent copyright laws, each with its own jurisdiction defined by the territory of the new successor state of the Soviet Union. Through the Moscow agreement, Soviet works first published in the RSFSR, which were thus subject to the Russian law, became eligible for copyright is all other CIS nations, even if they had been published before 1973.\n\nSince its accession to the Berne Convention in 1995, the following Russian and Soviet works were copyrighted outside of Russia:\n\nMain sources:\n\n\nOther sources:\n\n\nLaws:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15238", "title": "International judicial institution", "text": "International judicial institution\n\nInternational judicial institutions can be divided into courts, arbitral tribunals and quasi-judicial institutions. Courts are permanent bodies, with near the same composition for each case. Arbitral tribunals, by contrast, are constituted anew for each case. Both courts and arbitral tribunals can make binding decisions. Quasi-judicial institutions, by contrast, make rulings on cases, but these rulings are not in themselves legally binding; the main example is the individual complaints mechanisms available under the various UN human rights treaties.\n\nInstitutions can also be divided into global and regional institutions.\n\nThe listing below incorporates both currently existing institutions, defunct institutions that no longer exist, institutions which never came into existence due to non-ratification of their constitutive instruments, and institutions which do not yet exist, but for which constitutive instruments have been signed. It does not include mere proposed institutions for which no instrument was ever signed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38668647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38668647", "title": "Italian electoral law of 2015", "text": "Italian electoral law of 2015\n\nThe Italian electoral law of 2015, better known as Italicum, a name given to it in 2014 by the Democratic Party secretary and subsequently head of government Matteo Renzi, who was its main proponent (until the end of January 2015 with the support of Forza Italia's leader Silvio Berlusconi) provides for a two-round system based on party-list proportional representation (the former being ruled out as unconstitutional), corrected by a majority bonus and a 3% election threshold. Candidates run for election in 100 multi-member constituencies with open lists, except for a single candidate chosen by each party who is the first to be elected. \n\nThe law, which came into force on 1 July 2016, regulates the election of the Chamber of Deputies, replacing the previous electoral law of 2005, modified by the Constitutional Court in December 2013 after judging it partly unconstitutional.\n\nThe law was written under the assumption that, by the time it came into force, the upper house would have become an indirectly-elected body representing regions, with greatly reduced powers, thus making a reform of its electoral system unnecessary. The upper-house reform, rejected in the 4 December 2016 Constitutional Referendum, was originally assumed to be adopted without a Referendum by 1 July 2016. \n\nIt is the first electoral law, which even if it was approved by the Italian Parliament, has never been used in a general election.\n\nThe electoral law passed by the centre-right government in 2005, immediately received widespread criticism: among other things, critics called into question the use of long closed lists of candidates (which gave party executives great power in deciding the composition of the Parliament), and the regional mechanism of allocation of seats in the Senate (which made the existence of a \"clear winner\" of the elections less likely).\n\nAfter two unsuccessful attempts at repealing the law by referendum, in the 2013 general election the law failed to produce a majority in the Senate: as a consequence, the only way to form a government was by means of a grand coalition between left wing and right wing parties that had harshly fought each other in the election. The resulting Letta Cabinet was perceived by many people as the second \"unelected government\" in a row (after the Monti Cabinet).\n\nWhile the coalition agreed that a new electoral law was needed, it failed to agree on a specific model. The Democratic Party executive and prime minister Enrico Letta even went as far as requesting that his party vote against a parliamentary initiative by fellow democrat Roberto Giachetti to restore the previous Mattarella law. This was probably done out of concern that the grand coalition supporting his government would not hold.\n\nOn 4 December 2013, the Constitutional Court judged the electoral law of 2005 partly unconstitutional: in particular, its unlimited majority bonus was repealed. This made an electoral reform ever more urgent, since proportional representation without majoritarian correction is thought to be incompatible with the competitive party system of Italy.\n\nA few days after, on 8 December 2013, Matteo Renzi became the new leader of the Democratic Party. In his victory speech, he vowed to change the electoral law against the risk of \"stabilized grand coalitions\". Renzi's initiative ultimately led to him taking the place of Letta as the prime minister. Finally, Renzi made a deal with Silvio Berlusconi for a set of institutional reforms, including a new majority-assuring law based on a two-round system, conceived to make the event of a forced Grand Coalition impossible.\n\nThe bill still faced harsh opposition, even by members of the proposing parties: however it was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 March 2014 and, in an amended form, by the Senate on 27 January 2015 with the support of a large majority.\n\nAfter the election of Sergio Mattarella as the new President of Italy on 31 January 2015, Berlusconi withdrew his support to the bill. In order for it to receive its final approval by the Chamber of Deputies, the government decided to link it to a confidence vote (hinting at a snap election in case of a negative outcome). The bill was finally approved on 4 May 2015 and signed by President Mattarella two days later.\n\nThe Italicum system regulates the attribution of 617 of the 630 seats of the Chamber of Deputies, excluding 12 seats attributed to representatives of Italians living abroad, and one seat for the Aosta Valley region. An uncommon feature of this system is that it is \"majority assuring\", thanks to a jackpot that is assigned to the winning party, possibly after a second electoral round.\n\nThe territory of Italy is divided into 100 constituencies electing between 3 and 9 deputies depending on their size. For each constituency, the parties designate a list of candidates: \"head of list\" candidates can run in up to 10 constituencies, while other candidates are limited to a single constituency. Gender balance is promoted by requiring that, in each region, head of lists of either sex for the same party should not exceed 60% of the total; additionally, candidates in all lists must be in a sequence alternating by gender.\n\nAt the first round, electors receive a ballot allowing them to vote for a single party and for its head of list candidate (pre-printed on the ballot), and are given the option to express up to two additional preference votes for other candidates of that party, by writing their name next to the party symbol. If two preference votes are expressed, they must be of a different sex: otherwise, the second preference is discarded.\n\nOnly parties passing a 3% minimum threshold in the first round are assigned seats. If the party receiving the plurality of the votes passes a 40% threshold, it is attributed a minimum of 340 seats (54%). The remaining seats are allocated to the other parties in a proportional fashion, and no second round takes place.\n\nIf no party has been able to pass the 40% threshold, a second round takes place two weeks after the first one: this time electors receive a ballot where they are allowed to choose between the two parties that received most votes in the first round. The party winning the second round is attributed 340 seats, and the remaining 277 seats are allocated to the other parties in a proportional fashion, according to the results of the first round.\n\nThe proportional allocation of seats follows the largest remainder method. Each party receives a certain number of seats depending on its national result: these seats are then projected onto the 100 constituencies and attributed to the candidates of that constituency, starting from the head of list and then according to the number of preference votes.\n\nAn amendment, known as \"Erasmus amendment\", makes sure Italians studying abroad in the Erasmus programme can vote.\n\nSeveral events have contributed to the development of the electoral law into the current system:\n\nRoberto D'Alimonte (LUISS), who was the main scholar proposing the new system, said that \"the Italicum is a good instrument that represents a point of satisfactory equilibrium between governability and representativeness. However [...] good government [...] depends mostly on the men and women who use it\". He also made a comparison with the 2015 United Kingdom general election, stating that \"the Italicum's advantage is indeed that the winner will be assigned 340 seats and the losers will have to divide the remaining 278 seats... The point is that the Italicum is a majority-assuring system, such that it ensures that there will be an undisputed winner, but unlike the British system, it is not a winner-takes-all system. In fact, the winner does not take the entire pot, but only 54 percent\".\n\nFormer president of Italy Giorgio Napolitano, who was a key player in pushing Italian parties into reforming the electoral system, remarked that \"this law certainly hasn't been written in a month, it took more than one year, there have been many discussions, there has been a committee of scholars who opened the way, therefore I believe this has been an important accomplishment\".\n\nAmong the politicians critical of the reform, former prime minister Enrico Letta judged the Italicum \"a close relative to the Porcellum\" and voted against its adoption.\n\nLikewise, scholars have been divided on the electoral reform. Augusto Barbera (emeritus professor at the University of Bologna and one of the most prominent experts of Italian constitutional law) was unhappy with the possibility for a candidate to run in more than one constituency and with the low 3% election threshold but otherwise praised the law. He said that the system does not introduce presidentialism but strengthens the powers of the prime minister, which is \"the characteristic of all functioning parliamentary systems (United Kingdom, German chancellorship, Spanish premiership)\".\n\nAccording to Stefano Ceccanti (Sapienza University of Rome), the law is \"definitely a good one, it would have been difficult for this fragmented, troublesome Parliament... to do any better\".\n\nTommaso Frosini (Suor Orsola Benincasa University of Naples) stated that \"it is to the lawmaker's credit to have been able to make a synthesis of the two principles\" of governability and proportionality.\n\nAccording to Pasquale Pasquino (New York University), the Italicum \"should be preferred over pure majoritarian systems\" in which \"the electoral law decimates not only small parties, but even parties going close to a 20% of the people's votes\".\n\nAmong critics, Gianfranco Pasquino (University of Bologna) wrote that \"the Italicum is a bad reform with a single merit: the runoff giving real power to electors. As for the rest, the party bonus is wrong, as well as multiple candidatures and the low threshold for the access to the Parliament\".\n\nConstitutional law expert Michele Ainis (Roma Tre University) was also critical of the reform. According to him, \"the Italicum determines a direct election of the prime minister, giving him a turnkey majority\", introducing a constitutional reform by means of an ordinary law.\n\nAmong the foreign press, the Spanish newspaper El País commented that \"the important thing is that the law approved by the Chamber of Deputies obtains stability and governablity, nevertheless respecting the decision coming from the polls as much as possible\"\n\nMoshe Arens, writing for Haaretz (the main left-wing journal in Israel), has suggested to use the \"Italicum\" to regulate the election of the Knesset.\n\nOn February 24, 2016 a court in Messina sent the election law for review to the Constitutional Court: declaring admissible the application by petitioners, the judges called for the Constitutional Court to decide whether eight out of the petitioners' 13 claims that the Italicum breached the Italian Constitution. The Constitutional Court might still decide that the unconstitutionality hypothesis is not founded, and even refuse to examine it. The court's decision is not expecting until after 2017 January.\n\nA constitutional reform bill passed by the Italian Parliament in April 2016, which is still awaiting popular confirmation by referendum, will require the Constitutional Court to decide on the consititutional legitimacy of the electoral law even if the aforementioned application is rejected. This extraordinary procedure will only take place if the referendum confirms the bill.\n"}
{"id": "28535343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28535343", "title": "Italian trust law", "text": "Italian trust law\n\nIn Italian trust law, a trust is a particular juridical instrument by which a settler (\"disponente\") can transfer a property (movable or immovable property) to a trustee, who has to exercise and manage this right for a beneficiary (to whom the full property will be transferred with the termination of the trust) who has the \"equitable right\". In civil law systems, the beneficiary’s right is not a \"diritto reale\" but a \"personal right\" towards the \"trustee\". If it is not foreseen by the constitutive contract, the property assets cannot be alienated by either the trustee or the beneficiary. Trust property cannot be foreclosed by the personal creditors of the trustee, the beneficiary, or their heirs.\n\nIn Italy, trusts can be used thanks to the adoption of the Hague Convention (1 July 1985), effective from 1 January 1992. The \"trust interno\" is a domestic trust, but refers to a foreign regulation because as of August 2010 Italy does not have a complete and organic internal regulation on trust. Trusts can be used for various aims: administration, transfer of family business assets, transfer of goods for charity purposes, protection of patrimony, etc. The main advantages are the flexibility of its use and its economic convenience compared to Italian traditional juridical instruments. Nevertheless, they have not enjoyed widespread usage in Italy, mainly because of the scarce knowledge of their functioning.\n\nItaly has proposed its own regulation on trust (\"fiducia\"). The Italian government has been tasked by the Community Law 2010 (bill/ legge comunitaria) with adopting a specific regulation on trusts within the Italian juridical system (title II art. 11). The \"disegno di legge n. 2284/2010\" (bill n. 2284/2010), an unexamined bill presented by the Ministry of Justice in July 2010, charges the Government with modifying the civil code as concerns trusts and that particular form of security contract.\n\nThe proposed Italian regulation on trusts is inspired by the French \"fiducie\", which encompassed (by ordinance nº 2009-112 2009) individuals and corporations excluded from the payment of corporate taxes; the capacity to constitute a trust; and permission for attorneys to become trustees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "552270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=552270", "title": "Kyklos", "text": "Kyklos\n\nThe Kyklos (, , \"cycle\") is a term used by some classical Greek authors to describe what they saw as the political cycle of governments in a society. It was roughly based on the history of Greek city-states in the same period. The concept of \"The Kyklos\" is first elaborated in Plato's \"Republic\", chapters VIII and IX. Polybius calls it the \"anakyklosis\" or \"anacyclosis\".\n\nAccording to Polybius, who has the most fully developed version of the cycle, it rotates through the three basic forms of government, democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy and the three degenerate forms of each of these governments ochlocracy, oligarchy, and tyranny. Originally society is in ochlocracy but the strongest figure emerges and sets up a monarchy. The monarch's descendants, who because of their family's power lack virtue, become despots and the monarchy degenerates into a tyranny. Because of the excesses of the ruler the tyranny is overthrown by the leading citizens of the state who set up an aristocracy. They too quickly forget about virtue and the state becomes an oligarchy. These oligarchs are overthrown by the people who set up a democracy. Democracy soon becomes corrupt and degenerates into ochlocracy, beginning the cycle anew.\n\nPlato and Aristotle have somewhat different beliefs. Plato only sees five forms of government. Aristotle believes the cycle begins with monarchy and ends in anarchy, but that it does not start anew. He also refers to democracy as the degenerate form of rule by the many and calls the virtuous form \"politeia\", which is often translated as constitutional democracy. Cicero describes anacyclosis in his philosophical work \"De re publica\".\n\nMachiavelli, writing during the Renaissance, appears to have adopted Polybius' version of the cycle. Machiavelli's adoption of anacyclosis can be seen in Book I, Chapter II of his \"Discourses on Livy\".\n\nAll the philosophers believed that this cycling was harmful. The transitions would often be accompanied by violence and turmoil, and a good part of the cycle would be spent with the degenerate forms of government. Aristotle gave a number of options as to how the cycle could be halted or slowed:\n\nPolybius, by contrast, focuses on the idea of mixed government. The idea that the ideal government is one that blends elements of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy. Aristotle mentions this notion but pays little attention to it. To Polybius it is the most important and he saw the Roman Republic as the embodiment of this mixed constitution and that this explained its stability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44497647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44497647", "title": "Legal mobilisation", "text": "Legal mobilisation\n\nLegal mobilisation is a tool available to paralegal and advocacy groups, to achieve legal empowerment by supporting a marginalized issues of a stakeholder, in negotiating with the other concerned agencies and other stakeholders, by strategic combined use of legal processes along with advocacy, media engagement and social mobilisation. As per Frances Kahen Zemans (1983) \" the Legal mobilisation is \"a desire or want, which is translated into a demand as an assertion of one's rights\".\" \n\nAccording to Lisa Vanhala (November 2011) Legal mobilisation in its narrowest sense, may refer to high-profile litigation efforts for (or, arguably, against) social change or more broadly, term legal mobilisation has been used to describe any type of process by which an individual or collective actors invoke legal norms, discourse, or symbols to influence policy or behavior. This typically means that there are policies or regulations to mobilize around and a mechanism by which to do so. Legislative activity does create an opportunity for legal mobilization. The courts become particularly relevant when petitioners have grounds to file suit.\n\nThe use of the law and legal systems by disadvantaged people to contest the unfair distribution of power and resources is a real-world phenomenon that predates and exists independently of international law and justice assistance.\n\nParticularly in circumstances where traditional power resources, in terms of bargaining power and worker solidarity, are not firmly established, Use of the \"legal mobilisation\" clearly offers important additional tactics.\n"}
{"id": "24787934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24787934", "title": "May v Burdett", "text": "May v Burdett\n\nMay v. Burdett, 9 Q.B. 101 (1846), was an English case argued decided before the Queen's Bench that ruled a plaintiff injured by a dangerous animal kept by the defendant had a prima facie case for negligence even without a showing that the defendant had been negligent in securing the animal.\n"}
{"id": "39841642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39841642", "title": "Model Audit Rule 205", "text": "Model Audit Rule 205\n\nThe Model Audit Rule 205, Model Audit Rule, or MAR 205 are the commonly applied terms for the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation.\n\"Model Audit Rule\" is a financial reporting regulation applicable to insurance companies, and borrows significantly from the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (see ‘key sections’ below). The \"Model Audit Rule\" is co-developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) and National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) and issued by NAIC \nwith revisions in 2006 and has taken effect in 2010.\n\nThe NAIC internal designation for the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation is MDL 205, where \"MDL\" stands for \"Model\", and the number of the model rule is \"205\". \nBecause the regulation was issued by NAIC, which is not a federal agency with direct regulatory power, its adoption is on a state-by-state basis.\n\nThe \"Model Audit Rule\" was issued to:\n\nThe \"Model Audit Rule\" requires the following to be submitted by insurance companies operating in states which have adopted the regulation:\n\nAll insurers must have an annual audit by an independent CPA. This audit must be filed by June 1 following the preceding December 31 year end. An insurer may receive an extension for both the Audit report (performed by an independent CPA) and Managements report on internal controls. Here, the term Management refers to the management of the insurer.\n\nFor example, filing for the year ending December 31, 2012 must be done by June 1, 2013.\n\nThe annual audited financial report should show the financial position, results of its operations, cash flows and changes in capital and surplus. The insurers report must be in conformity with statutory accounting practices of the Department of Insurance of the insurers’ state.\n\n§5(G) The financial reports must be comparative, that is, to show the most recent year end against the preceding year end. For example, in a financial report for the year ending December 31, 2013, for each line item, the report must show the result for December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012.\n\n§5(A – F) The financial report must include:\n\nMany items in this section are based on the underlying requirement that the audit of the insurer must be performed by an independent CPA / CPA firm.\n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" describes the qualifications of an Independent external auditor for an insurer through the following major themes:\n\n§7(A)(2) The external auditor is liable for representations made in the audit of the insurer. This promotes auditors independence because the external auditor has “skin in the game” and can be held liable for misrepresentations made on its audit report, and other responsibilities.\n\n§7(D)(1) is similar to SOX 203 in requiring the rotation of the lead audit partner, with a five year “cool off” period, after a five year consecutive period with the audit of the insurer. In addition to this, Section 7(L)(1) addresses that a CPA firms senior manager or partner cannot be a part of the insurers leadership for one year prior to the audit.\n\n§7(G)(1) is similar to SOX 201 in the restriction of non-audit services being performed by the CPA firm conducting the audit of the insurers financials.\n\nThe principles governing non-audit services are that the CPA / CPA firm cannot:\n\nParticular non-audit services mentioned include (Section 7(G)(1)) \n\n§7(F) provides that state insurance commissioner the authority to, following a hearing on the matter, force an insurer to change the auditor of its financial statements. In addition, according to drafting notes contained within this section, the state insurance commissioner shall consider using guidance provided in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) final rule No.33-8183 \n, strengthening the commissions requirements regarding auditor independence.\n\n§7(J) provides that all audit and non-audit services to the insurer must be approved first by the insurers audit committee.\n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" describes the resources that the external auditor must consult in planning and performing the audit of an insurers financial statements. \nThe following are the requirements noted and standards borrowed to complete the requirement. The Auditor must:\n\nThe insurer must provide to the state insurance commissioner a report on internal control weaknesses that are still outstanding as of the close of the audit. The terminology used here is unremediated material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting.\n\nTo successfully provide the unremediated internal control weaknesses report, the concept of materiality must be explained. Here, the insurer and external auditor are directed to the Statements on Auditing Standards No. 60 (SAS 60), Internal Control Related Matters Noted in the Audit regarding the term material weakness.\n\nThe Internal Controls Report must, for each material weakness:\n\nAn example of this communication, as would be sent to the state insurance commissioner, is the following:\n\nThe insurers’ leadership (officers, directors) cannot improperly influence an external auditor of the insurers’ financial statements. “When the officer, director, or person acting under his or her direction knew or should have known that the action, if successful (but regardless of whether the action is in fact successful) could result in rendering the issuers financial statements materially misleading” \n\n§15 is closely related to Rule 13b2-2(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The standard for violation used here includes fraud (acting with intent to deceive) as well as gross negligence (reckless disregard for the truth). Gross negligence is invoked under the phrase “known or should have known” \n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" is most closely related to and departs from Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 (SOX 404) on Internal Control.\n\n\n§16(A - D) Which Insurers must file – generally, this report is required for large insurers, those with:\n\nNo need for Duplicate Internal Control Reports\n\nIf an insurer is a publicly traded and subject to SOX 404, then they are already preparing an internal controls report. Therefore, the \"Model Audit Rule\" specifically states that this type of insurer “may file its or its parent’s section 404 report and an addendum in satisfaction of this §16 requirement”.\n\nThe addendum is a statement by the insurer that “there are no material processes with respect to the preparation of the insurer’s or group of insurers’ audited statutory financial statements...[]... excluded from the section 404 report.” \n\n§16(D) Internal Control Report Contents – Managements Report on Internal Control for statutory financial statements must include: \n\n§16(E) Management (Insurer) Supporting Activities – During an Audit or financial condition examination, the insurer must make available the basis for assertions used in evaluation of internal control.\n\nThe insurer is given the freedom (discretion) regarding: \n\nThe insurer has aforementioned discretion under the \"Model Audit Rule\" to achieve internal control objectives in a cost-effective manner.\n\nReport and Addendum Example: The following is of an SEC registrant who had all Internal Controls covered in the 404 Report.\n\n"}
{"id": "22970752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22970752", "title": "New Mexico Livestock Board", "text": "New Mexico Livestock Board\n\nThe New Mexico Livestock Board regulates livestock health and livestock identification in New Mexico, in the United States. It was created in 1967 by the merger of the New Mexico Cattle Sanitary Board and the New Mexico Sheep Sanitary Board. Their regulatory control over livestock now includes cattle, horses, mules, donkeys (burros), goats, sheep, pigs, bison, poultry, ratites (notably ostriches), camelids (notably llamas) and farmed deer (cervidae). The regulatory authority does not include farmed fish, nor dogs or cats.\n\nThe registered brand is the basis for livestock identification in New Mexico. Every three years the Board publishes a \"Brand Book\".\n\nThe New Mexico Livestock Board maintains health programs in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158887", "title": "Procedendo", "text": "Procedendo\n\nIn common-law jurisprudence, procedendo is one of the prerogative writs. It is a writ that sends a case from an appellate court to a lower court with an order to proceed to judgment. \n\nThe writ of \"procedendo ad judicium\" was the earliest remedy for the refusal or neglect of justice on the part of the courts. It was an original writ, issuing out of chancery to the judges of any subordinate court, commanding them in the king's name to proceed to judgment, but without specifying any particular judgment. In case of disobedience or of neglect on the part of the judges to whom it was addressed, or refusal by them to act, they were liable to punishment for contempt.\n\nInherently, the most important limitation on this jurisdiction is that the writ of mandamus is not a proper remedy to control or direct the decisions of inferior courts in matters wherein they have judicial cognizance and discretion. In other words, so far as the writ affects the action of inferior courts, its use is not to be extended to compel the rendition of a particular judgment, in accordance with the views of a higher court.\n\nIt corresponds to \"certiorari\", except that \"certiorari\" is a higher court's order to a lower court to send the record of a case to it for appellate review.\n\nIn the Federal Court System in the United States, this process is now known as remand.\n"}
{"id": "50301863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50301863", "title": "Prostitution age of consent", "text": "Prostitution age of consent\n\nThe prostitution age of consent is the minimum age at which a person may legally engage in prostitution. Where this is not specified in the individual county's prostitution laws, then the general age of consent laws for that country apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "26728804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26728804", "title": "Public domain in the United States", "text": "Public domain in the United States\n\nWorks are in the public domain if they are not covered by intellectual property rights, such as copyright, at all, or if the intellectual property rights to the works has expired.\n\nEvery work first published before 1923 has been in the American public domain since 1998. The public domain will reopen on January 1, 2019, when works from 1923 lose their copyright protection.\n\nIn the United States, copyright began with the introduction of the Constitution in 1787; creators of works created after the ratification of the Constitution could receive copyright, while works created before the Constitution went into effect remain in the public domain. \n\nWorks additionally fall to the public domain automatically when copyright has expired, though additional alterations to copyright laws since the original Constitution have extended the length of time for which a given copyright may be valid or can be renewed.\n\nPublic domain books within the United States include a number of notable titles, many of which are still commonly read and studied as part of the English-language \"literary canon\". Examples include:\n\n\nThousands of paintings and photographs are under public domain in the USA; these include photographs taken by Jacob Riis, Mathew Brady and Alfred Stieglitz.\n\nSound recordings fixed in a tangible form before February 15, 1972, have been generally covered by common law or in some cases by anti-piracy statutes enacted in certain states, not by federal copyright law, and the anti-piracy statutes typically have no duration limit. As such, virtually all sound recordings, regardless of age, are presumed to still be under copyright protection in the United States. The 1971 Sound Recordings Act, effective 1972, and the 1976 Copyright Act, effective 1978, provide federal copyright for unpublished and published sound recordings fixed on or after February 15, 1972. Recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, are still covered, to varying degrees, by common law or state statutes. Any rights or remedies under state law for sound recordings fixed \"before\" February 15, 1972, are not annulled or limited by the 1976 Copyright Act until February 15, 2067. On that date, all sound recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, will go into the public domain in the United States.\n\nFor sound recordings fixed \"on or after\" February 15, 1972, the earliest year that any will go out of copyright and into the public domain in the U.S. will be 2043, and not in any substantial number until 2048. Sound recordings fixed and published on or after February 15, 1972, and before 1978, which did not carry a proper copyright notice on the recording or its cover entered the public domain on publication. From 1978 to March 1, 1989, the owners of the copyrights had up to five years to remedy this omission without losing the copyright. Since March 1, 1989, no copyright notice has been required.\n\nLibrivox is a website with thousands of audiobooks created by volunteers who record themselves reading public domain texts that people with visual impairment and the general public can download and listen to for free.\n\nSince the invention of video capture and animation techniques, thousand of films or videos have entered the public domain. Some examples include:\n\nA number of television series, because they were released before 1964 and did not have their copyright renewed (such as almost all of the extant DuMont Television Network archive), were originally recorded before 1989 without a valid copyright notice, or were works of the United States government, have episodes in the public domain.\n\nPublic domain status of television episodes is made complicated by derivative work considerations; for example, 16 episodes of \"The Andy Griffith Show\" are, due to expired copyright, in the public domain by themselves, but in 2007, CBS was able to claim an indirect copyright on the episodes in question by claiming they were derivative works of earlier episodes still under copyright. Likewise, the 1964 special \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" was published with an invalid copyright notice but uses copious amounts of copyrighted music and is based on an original story that is still under copyright.\n\nHundreds of American live-action films are in the public domain because they were never copyrighted or because their copyrights have since expired. These movies can be viewed online at websites such as Internet Archive and can also be downloaded from websites like Public Domain Torrents. \n\nExamples of notable such public domain films include:\n\n\nHundreds of American animated films are in the public domain, including:\n\n\nCongress has restored expired copyrights several times: \"After World War I and after World War II, there were special amendments to the Copyright Act to permit for a limited time and under certain conditions the recapture of works that might have fallen into the public domain, principally by aliens of countries with which we had been at war.\" Works published with notice of copyright or registered in unpublished form in the years 1964 through 1977 automatically had their copyrights renewed for a second term. Works published with notice of copyright or registered in unpublished form on or after January 1, 1923, and prior to January 1, 1964, had to be renewed during the 28th year of their first term of copyright to maintain copyright for a full 95-year term. With the exception of maps, music, and movies, the vast majority of works published in the United States before 1964 were never renewed for a second copyright term.\n\nWorks \"prepared by an officer or employee of the U.S. government as part of that person's official duties\" are automatically in the public domain by law. Examples include military journalism, federal court opinions (but not necessarily state court opinions), congressional committee reports, and census data. However, works created by a contractor for the government are still subject to copyright. Even public domain documents may have their availability limited by laws limiting the spread of classified information.\n\nThe claim that \"pre-1923 works are in the public domain\" is correct only for published works; unpublished works are under federal copyright for at least the life of the author plus 70 years. For a work for hire, the copyright in a work created before 1978, but not theretofore in the public domain or registered for copyright, subsists from January 1, 1978, and endures for a term of 95 years from the year of its first publication, or a term of 120 years from the year of its creation, whichever expires first. If the work was created before 1978 but first published 1978–2002, the federal copyright will not expire before 2047.\n\nUntil the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988, the lack of a proper copyright notice would place an otherwise copyrightable work into the public domain, although for works published between January 1, 1978, and February 28, 1989, this could be prevented by registering the work with the Library of Congress within five years of publication. After March 1, 1989, an author's copyright in a work begins when it is fixed in a tangible form; neither publication nor registration is required, and a lack of a copyright notice does not place the work into the public domain.\n\nIn January 2019, older published works will resume entering the Public Domain under the Copyright Term Extension Act. Works from 1923 that have been identified as entering the public domain in this period include \"The Great American Novel,\" (a novel by William Carlos Williams); the original silent version of the film \"The Ten Commandments,\" by Cecil B. DeMille; and the musical \"London Calling!,\" by Noel Coward.\n\nVery few sound recordings are in the public domain in the United States. Sound recordings fixed in a tangible form before February 15, 1972, have been generally covered by common law or in some cases by anti-piracy statutes enacted in certain states, not by federal copyright law, and the anti-piracy statutes typically have no duration limit. The 1971 Sound Recordings Act, effective 1972, and the 1976 Copyright Act, effective 1978, provide federal copyright for unpublished and published sound recordings fixed on or after February 15, 1972. Recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, are still covered, to varying degrees, by common law or state statutes. Any rights or remedies under state law for sound recordings fixed \"before\" February 15, 1972, are not annulled or limited by the 1976 Copyright Act until February 15, 2067. On that date, all sound recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, will go into the public domain in the United States.\n\nFor sound recordings fixed \"on or after\" February 15, 1972, the earliest year that any will go out of copyright and into the public domain in the U.S. will be 2043, and not in any substantial number until 2048. Sound recordings fixed and published on or after February 15, 1972, and before 1978, which did not carry a proper copyright notice on the recording or its cover entered the public domain on publication. From 1978 to March 1, 1989, the owners of the copyrights had up to five years to remedy this omission without losing the copyright. Since March 1, 1989, no copyright notice has been required.\n\nIn September 2018, the US Senate passed the Music Modernization Act, where sound recordings released before 1957 will enter the public domain 95 years after their first release. Recordings from 1957 to 1972 will enter the public domain in 2067.\n\nIn the United States, the images of Frank Capra's film \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (1946) entered into the public domain in 1974, because the copyright holder failed to file a renewal application with the Copyright Office during the 28th year after the film's release or publication. However, in 1993, Republic Pictures utilized the 1990 United States Supreme Court ruling in \"Stewart v. Abend\" to enforce its claim of copyright because the film was a derivative work of a short story that was under a separate, existing copyright, to which Republic owned the film adaptation rights, effectively regaining control of the work in its complete form. Currently, Paramount Pictures owns the copyright to the film.\n\nCharles Chaplin re-edited and scored his 1925 film \"The Gold Rush\" for reissue in 1942. Subsequently, the 1925 version fell into the public domain when Chaplin's company failed to renew its copyright in 1953, although the 1942 version is still under US copyright.\n\nThe distributor of the cult film \"Night of the Living Dead\", after changing the film's title at the last moment before release in 1968, failed to include a proper copyright notice in the new titles, thereby immediately putting the film into the public domain after its release. This provision of US copyright law was revised with the United States Copyright Act of 1976, which allowed such negligence to be remedied within five years of publication.\n\nA number of TV series in America have lapsed into the public domain, in whole or only in the case of certain episodes, giving rise to wide distribution of some shows on DVD. Series that have only certain episodes in the public domain include \"Petticoat Junction\", \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", \"The Andy Griffith Show\", \"The Lucy Show\", \"Bonanza\", \"Annie Oakley\", and \"Decoy\".\n\nLaws may make some types of works and inventions ineligible for monopoly; such works immediately enter the public domain upon publication. Many kinds of mental creations, such as publicized baseball statistics, are never covered by copyright. However, any special layout of baseball statistics, or the like, would be covered by copyright law. For example, while a phone book is not covered by copyright law, any special method of laying out the information would be.\n\nIn the past, a work would enter the public domain in the United States if it was released without a copyright notice. This was true prior to March 1, 1989, but is no longer the case. Any work (of certain, enumerated types) now receives copyright as soon as it is fixed in a tangible medium.\n\nThere are several references to putting copyrighted work into the public domain. The first reference is actually in a statute passed by Congress, in the Computer Software Rental Amendments Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–650, 104 Stat. 5089 (1990)). Although most of the Act was codified into Title 17 of the United States Code, there is a very interesting provision relating to \"public domain shareware\" which was not, and is therefore often overlooked.\n\nOne purpose of this legislation appears to be to allow \"public domain shareware\" to be filed at the Library of Congress, presumably so that the shareware would be more widely disseminated. Therefore, one way to release computer software into the public domain might be to make the filing and pay the $20 fee. This could have the effect of \"certifying\" that the author intended to release the software into the public domain. It does not seem that registration is necessary to release the software into the public domain, because the law does not state that public domain status is conferred by registration. Judicial rulings supports this conclusion, see below.\n\nBy comparing paragraph (a) and (c), one can see that Congress distinguishes \"public domain\" shareware as a special kind of shareware. Because this law was passed after the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988, Congress was well aware that newly created computer programs (two years worth, since the Berne Act was passed) would automatically have copyright attached. Therefore, one reasonable inference is that Congress intended that authors of shareware would have the power to release their programs into the public domain. This interpretation is followed by the Copyright Office in 37 C.F.R. § 201.26.\n\nThe Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988 states in section twelve that the Act \"does not provide copyright protection for any work that is in the public domain.\" The congressional committee report explains that this means simply that the Act does not apply retroactively.\n\nAlthough the only part of the act that does mention \"public domain\" does not speak to whether authors have the right to dedicate their work to the public domain, the remainder of the committee report does not say that they intended copyright to be an indestructible form of property. Rather the language speaks about getting rid of copyright formalities in order to comply with Berne (non-compliance had become a severe impediment in trade negotiations) and making registration and marking optional, but encouraged. A fair reading is that the Berne Act did not intend to take away author's right to dedicate works to the public domain, which they had (by default) under the 1976 Act.\n\nAlthough there is support in the statutes for allowing work to be dedicated to the public domain, there cannot be an unlimited right to dedicate work to the public domain because of a quirk of U.S. copyright law which grants the author of a work the right to cancel \"the exclusive or nonexclusive grant of a transfer or license of copyright or of any right under a copyright\" thirty-five years later, unless the work was originally a work for hire.\n\nAnother form of support comes from the case \"Computer Associates Int'l v. Altai\", 982 F.2d 693, which set the standard for determining copyright infringement of computer software. This case discusses the public domain.\n\nThis decision holds that computer software may enter the public domain through \"freely accessible program exchanges and the like,\" or by becoming \"commonplace in the computer industry.\" Relying only on this decision, it is unclear whether an author can dedicate his work to the public domain simply by labeling it as such, or whether dedication to the public domain requires widespread dissemination.\n\nThis could make a distinction in a CyberPatrol-like case, where a software program is released, leading to litigation, and as part of a settlement the author assigns his copyright. If the author has the power to release his work into the public domain, there would be no way for the new owner to stop the circulation of the program. A court may look on an attempt to abuse the public domain in this way with disfavor, particularly if the program has not been widely disseminated. Either way, a fair reading is that an author may choose to release a computer program to the public domain if he can arrange for it to become popular and widely disseminated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1291782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291782", "title": "Public service", "text": "Public service\n\nPublic service is a service which is provided by government to people living within its jurisdiction, either directly (through the public sector) or by financing provision of services. The term is associated with a social consensus (usually expressed through democratic elections) that certain services should be available to all, regardless of income, physical ability or mental acuity. Even where public services are neither publicly provided nor publicly financed, for social and political reasons they are usually subject to regulation going beyond that applying to most economic sectors. Public policy when made in the public's interest and motivations can provide public services. Public service is also a course that can be studied at a college or university. Examples of public services are the fire brigade, police, air force, and paramedics.\n\nPublic services may be associated with fundamental human rights (such as the right to water). The Volunteer Fire Dept. and Ambulance Corps. are institutions with the mission of servicing the community. A service is helping others with a specific need or want. Here, service ranges from a doctor curing an illness, to a repair person, to a food pantry.\n\nIn modern developed countries, the term \"public services\" (or \"services of general interest\") often includes:\n\nIn modern democracies, public service is often performed by employees known as civil servants who are hired by elected officials. Government agencies are not profit-oriented and their employees are motivated very differently. Studies of their work have found contrasting results including both higher levels of effort and fewer hours of work. A survey in the UK found that private sector hiring managers do not credit government experience as much as private sector experience. Public workers tend to make less in wages when adjusting for education, although that difference is reduced when benefits and hours are included. Public workers have other intangible benefits such as increased job security.\n\nA public service may sometimes have the characteristics of a public good (being non-rivalrous and non-excludable), but most are services which may (according to prevailing social norms) be under-provided by the market. In most cases public services are services, i.e. they do not involve manufacturing of goods. They may be provided by local or national monopolies, especially in sectors which are natural monopolies.\n\nThey may involve outputs that are hard to attribute to specific individual effort or hard to measure in terms of key characteristics such as quality. They often require high levels of training and education. They may attract people with a public service ethos who wish to give something to the wider public or community through their work.\n\nGoverning bodies have long provided core public services. The tradition of keeping citizens secure through organized military defence dates to at least four thousand years ago.\n\nMaintaining order through local delegated authority originated at least as early as the Warring States period (5th to 3rd centuries BCE) in ancient China with the institution of \"xian\" (prefectures) under the control of a centrally-appointed prefect. Historical evidence of state provision of dispute resolution through a legal/justice system goes back at least as far as ancient Egypt.\n\nA primary public service in ancient history involved ensuring the general favor of the gods through a theologically and ceremonially correct state religion.\n\nThe widespread provision of public utilities as public services in developed countries usually began in the late nineteenth century, often with the municipal development of gas and water services. Later, governments began to provide other services such as electricity and healthcare. In most developed countries local or national governments continue to provide such services, the biggest exceptions being the U.S. and the UK, where private provision is arguably proportionally more significant. Nonetheless, such privately provided public services are often strongly regulated, for example (in the US) by Public Utility Commissions.\n\nIn developing countries public services tend to be much less well developed. For example, water services might only be available to the wealthy middle class. For political reasons the service is often subsidized, which reduces the finance potentially available for expansion to poorer communities.\n\nNationalization took off following the World Wars of the first half of the twentieth century. Across Europe, because of the extreme demands on industries and the economy, central planning was required to make production maximally efficient. Many public services, especially electricity, gas and public transport are products of this era. Following the Second World War, many countries also began to implement universal health care and expanded education under the funding and guidance of the state.\n\nThere are several ways to privatize public services. A free-market corporation may be established and sold to private investors, relinquishing government control altogether. Thus it becomes a private (not public) service. Another option, used in the Nordic countries, is to establish a corporation, but keep ownership or voting power essentially in the hands of the government. For example, the Finnish state owned 49% of Kemira until 2007, the rest being owned by private investors. A 49% share did not make it a \"government enterprise\", but it meant that all other investors together would have to oppose the state's opinion in order to overturn the state's decisions in the shareholder's meeting. Regulated corporation can also acquire permits on the agreement that they fulfill certain public service duties. When a private corporation runs a natural monopoly, then the corporation is typically heavily regulated, to prevent abuse of monopoly power. Lastly, the government can buy the service on the free market. In many countries, medication is provided in this manner: the government reimburses part of the price of the medication. Also, bus traffic, electricity, healthcare and waste management are privatized in this way. One recent innovation, used in the UK increasingly as well as Australia and Canada is public-private partnerships. This involves giving a long lease to private consortia in return for partly funding infrastructure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31381409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31381409", "title": "Railworthiness", "text": "Railworthiness\n\nRailworthiness is the property or ability of a locomotive, passenger car, freight car, train or any kind of railway vehicle to be in proper operating condition or to meet acceptable safety standards of project, manufacturing, maintenance and railway use for transportation of persons, luggage or cargo.\n\nRailworthiness is the condition of the rail system and its suitability for rail operations in that it has been designed, constructed, maintained and operated to approved standards and limitations by competent and authorised individuals, who are acting as members of an approved organisation and whose work is both certified as correct and accepted on behalf of the rail system owner.\n"}
{"id": "1259992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1259992", "title": "Salad bowl (cultural idea)", "text": "Salad bowl (cultural idea)\n\nThe salad bowl concept suggests that the integration of the many different cultures of United States residents combine like a salad, as opposed to the more traditional notion of a cultural melting pot. New York City can be considered as being a \"salad bowl\". In Canada this concept is more commonly known as the cultural mosaic. In the salad bowl model, different American cultures are brought together — like salad ingredients — but do not form together into a single homogeneous culture. Each culture keeps its own distinct qualities. This idea proposes a society of many individual, \"pure\" cultures in addition to the mixed culture that is modern American culture, and the term has become more politically correct than \"melting pot\" , since the latter suggests that ethnic groups may be unable to preserve their cultures due to assimilation...\n\nSome have compared the European concept of multiculturalism (multikulti) to a salad bowl approach, which prevents the full integration of immigrant groups into host societies, whereas the traditional American approach of the melting pot results in successful integration of successive immigrant waves into the larger American society.\n\nThe story of Pocahontas and John Smith or the peaceful co-existence of Native Americans and new immigrants from England has been counted as a prototype of American multiculturalism. However, some scholars blamed it as a White Anglo-Saxon Protestant concept of melting pot and suggested a new concept of salad bowl.\n\nAn example of the European version of a salad bowl can be seen in its policy regarding the EU programme ‘integration of non-European nationals’ which finances and promotes integration initiatives targeting those who are not members of the EU25. This project aims to encourage dialogue in civil society, develop integration models, and spread and highlight the best initiatives regarding integration.\n\nThe salad bowl idea in practice has its supporters and detractors. Supporters argue that being American does not inherently tie a person to a single culture, though rather to citizenship and loyalty to the United States. Thus, one does not need to abandon their cultural heritage in order to be considered \"American\". Critics tend to oppose the idea in tandem with other critiques on multiculturalism, saying that America needs to have a common culture in order to preserve a common national identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19451163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19451163", "title": "Semantic Interoperability Centre Europe", "text": "Semantic Interoperability Centre Europe\n\nThe Semantic Interoperability Centre Europe (SEMIC.EU) was an eGovernment service initiated by the European Commission and managed by the Interoperable Delivery of European eGovernment Services to public Administrations, Businesses and Citizens (IDABC) Unit. As one of the 'horizontal measures' of the IDABC, it was established as a permanent implementation of the principles stipulated in the 'European Interoperability Framework' (EIF).\nIt offered a service for the exchange of semantic interoperability solutions, with a focus on demands of eGovernment in Europe. Through the establishment of a single sharing and collaboration point, the European Union wanted to resolve the problems of semantic interoperability amongst the EU member states. The main idea behind the service was to make visible specifications that already exist, so as to increase their reuse. In this way, governmental agencies and developers benefit as they do not reinvent the wheel, they reduce development costs, and increase the interoperability of their systems. \n\nIn December 2011, the content and the activities of SEMIC.eu were migrated to a new collaborative platform: Joinup. The reason for the migration to Joinup was to provide public administrations in Europe with better communication and collaboration tools to share experience with interoperability solutions for public administrations, to increase the number of users and to leverage synergies between the OSOR.eu and SEMIC.eu user communities, while optimising the use of public funding. \n\nThe IDABC programme listed the efficient implementation of pan-European eGovernment services as an important purpose of SEMIC.eu. According to the website, the initial idea behind SEMIC.eu was “to make use of the knowledge already generated in other projects to the benefit of others”. As a network of eGovernment projects and communities, SEMIC.eu was open for participation to all stakeholders in the field of public services and eGovernment. The projects involved provided and re-used solutions for seamless data interchange, preserving the original meaning of the data. Data exchange methods were provided by stakeholders, harmonised and pooled. SEMIC.eu was also described as an implementation-oriented preparation for standardisation measures. Built upon its function as a facilitator of European harmonisation, the centre participated in international standardisation organisations. Another objective highlighted by the European Commission is the provision of scientific as well as practical information on all matters related to semantic interoperability.\n\nThe website www.semic.eu was built around a repository of real-life solutions labelled as 'interoperability assets' (XML schemas, code lists, ontologies, taxonomies, classification schemes, etc.) provided by projects and organisations in the sector. For instance, various French ministries and the Danish Telecom agency provided developed solutions. \n\nThe assets were subject to a standardised and supervised clearing process to ensure conformity with high quality standards. This involved peer review and incremental enhancement of the assets. However, they remained available at all stages of the process, making it possible to reuse them in different projects, contexts or domains at any time. Moreover, each asset contained a forum thread.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50643476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50643476", "title": "Shreya Singhal v. Union of India", "text": "Shreya Singhal v. Union of India\n\nShreya Singhal v. Union of India is a judgement by a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India in 2015, on the issue of online speech and intermediary liability in India. The Supreme Court struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, relating to restrictions on online speech, unconstitutional on grounds of violating the freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. The Court further held that the Section was not saved by virtue of being 'reasonable restrictions' on the freedom of speech under Article 19(2). The case was a watershed moment for online free speech in India.\n\nSection 66A of the Information Technology Act, made it a punishable offence for any person to\n\n\"send, by means of a computer resource or a communication device,—\"\n\n\"(a) any information that is grossly offensive or has menacing character; or\"\n\n\"(b) any information which he knows to be false, but for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill will, persistently by making use of such computer resource or a communication device,\"\n\n\"(c) any electronic mail or electronic mail message for the purpose of causing annoyance or inconvenience or to deceive or to mislead the addressee or recipient about the origin of such messages,\"\n\nThe vague and arbitrary terms used in the Section led to much misuse of both personal and political nature, with several criminal cases being instituted against innocuous instances of online speech, including political commentary and humour. Furthermore, Section 79 of the IT Act and the Rules made thereunder, which created an onerous liability regime for internet Intermediaries were also challenged in a series of writ petitions before the Supreme Court, which were clubbed together and heard by a bench consisting of Justices Chelameswar and Nariman.\n\nIn a 52-page judgement, which extensively discussed Indian, English and US jurisprudence on free speech, the Supreme Court struck down Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act, read down Section 79 of the Information Technology Act and the related rules, and affirmed the constitutionality of Section 69A of the Act.\n\nSpeaking for the Court, Justice Nariman discussed the various standards which are applicable to adjudge when restrictions on speech can be deemed reasonable, under Article 19(2) of the Indian Constitution. The Court held that Section 66-A was vague and over-broad, and therefore fell foul of Article 19(1)(a), since the statute was not narrowly tailored to specific instances of speech which it sought to curb. Importantly, the Court also considered the 'chilling effect' on speech caused by vague and over-broad statutory language as a rationale for striking down the provision. Further, the Court held that the 'public order' restriction under Article 19(2) of the Constitution would not apply to cases of 'advocacy', but only to 'incitement', specifically incitement which has a proximate relation to public disorder.\n\nOf the challenge on the grounds under Article 14 of the Constitution of India, the Court held that \"we are unable to agree with counsel for the petitioners that there is no intelligible differentia between the medium of print, broadcast and real live speech as opposed to speech on the internet. The intelligible differentia is clear – the internet gives any individual a platform which requires very little or no payment through which to air his views.\" \n\nThe Supreme Court further read down Section 79 and Rule 3(4) of the Intermediaries Guidelines, under the Act, which deals with the liability of intermediaries, mostly those which host content and provide online services. Whereas the Section itself uses the term 'receiving actual knowledge', of the illegal material as the standard at which the intermediary is liable for removing content, the Court held that it must be read to mean knowledge received that a Court order has been passed asking it to take down the infringing material.\n\nFinally, the Court also upheld the secret blocking process under Section 69A of the Act, by which the Government can choose to take down content from the Internet, holding that it did not suffer from the infirmities in Section 66A or Section 79, and is a narrowly drawn provision with adequate safeguards.\n\nWhile the decision of the Supreme Court is of immense significance in protecting online free speech against arbitrary restrictions, Section 66A, which was declared unconstitutional, has continued to be used as a punitive measure against online speech in several cases. \n\nThe reading down of Section 79 of the IT act by the Supreme Court, to include the requirement that a takedown notice must be sanctioned by a court or government authority, has also been interpreted by the Delhi High Court in the case of MySpace v. Super Cassettes, to not apply to cases of copyright infringement under the Indian Copyright Act. \n"}
{"id": "2829677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2829677", "title": "Stand-your-ground law", "text": "Stand-your-ground law\n\nA stand-your-ground law (sometimes called \"line in the sand\" or \"no duty to retreat\" law) establishes a right by which a person may defend one's self or others (right of self-defense) against threats or perceived threats, even to the point of applying lethal force, regardless of whether safely retreating from the situation might have been possible. Such a law typically states that an individual has no duty to retreat from any place where they have a lawful right to be (though this varies from state to state) and that they may use any level of force if they reasonably believe the threat rises to the level of being an imminent and immediate threat of serious bodily harm and/or death. \n\nThe laws as described in this article are mainly focused on American state legislation adopted since 2005. Prior to that date, states tended to follow English common law which has a stand-your-ground law rooted in the concept of using 'reasonable force' in self-defence.\n\nStand-your-ground laws in the United States were created to provide a defense in criminal cases. In \"Dawkins v. State\" (2011) the court describes \"[T]he 'stand your ground' law... provide[s] that a person has a right to expect absolute safety in a place they have a right to be, and may use deadly force to repel an intruder... for a person to be justified in using deadly force, the person must not be 'engaged in unlawful activity\".\n\nJustification using stand-your-ground laws may be limited when \"[the defendant] was engaged in illegal activities and not entitled to benefit from provisions of the 'stand your ground' law\". This may be the case even if the illegal conduct the defendant was engaged in had nothing to do with the threat which instigated his use of deadly force. For instance, as is the case in Dawkins v. State, using an illegally obtained weapon in self defense to avoid being robbed and beaten is not justified by this law.\n\nThe castle doctrine is a common law doctrine stating that persons have no duty to retreat in their home, or \"castle\", and may use reasonable force, including deadly force, to defend their property, person, or another. Outside of the abode, however, a person has a duty to retreat, if possible, before using deadly force. Castle doctrine and \"stand-your-ground\" laws are acceptable defenses for people who have been charged with criminal homicide. \n\nAt common law, self-defense claims are not valid if the defendant could have \"safely retreated\" from danger (duty to retreat). The castle doctrine is an exception to this. It gives immunity from liability to individuals who acted in self-defense \"in the home\" even if they could have safely retreated from the threat and failed to do so. The duty to retreat is a legal requirement in some jurisdictions that a threatened person cannot stand one's ground and apply lethal force in self-defense, but must retreat to a place of safety instead. Deadly force or lethal force is force with the intent of serious bodily injury or death to another person. In most jurisdictions it is only accepted under conditions of extreme necessity and last resort.\n\nThe states that have legislatively adopted stand-your-ground laws are Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming.\n\nThe states that have adopted stand-your-ground in practice, either through case law/precedent, jury instructions or by other means, are California, Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon, Virginia, and Washington.\n\nStates that have adopted stand-your-ground, but limit it to only when a person is within their vehicle, are North Dakota, Ohio, and Wisconsin.\n\nThe states that have castle doctrine only with the duty to retreat in public are Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. This means that people can use deadly force in their home, car, or other form of abode but have to retreat in public.\n\nVermont and Washington, D.C. require citizens to flee from criminal assailants, even within their own homes.\n\nStand-your-ground laws are frequently labeled \"shoot first\" laws by opposition groups, including the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. In Florida, self-defense claims tripled in the years following enactment. Opponents argue that Florida's law makes it potentially more difficult to prosecute cases against individuals who commit a crime and claim self-defense. Before passage of the law, Miami police chief John F. Timoney called the law unnecessary and dangerous in that \"[w]hether it's trick-or-treaters or kids playing in the yard of someone who doesn't want them there or some drunk guy stumbling into the wrong house, you're encouraging people to possibly use deadly physical force where it shouldn't be used.\" A counter argument is that implementing a duty-to-retreat places the safety of the criminal above a victim's own life.\n\nIn Florida, a partisan task force created by former Democratic state Sen. Chris Smith of Fort Lauderdale found the law to be \"confusing\". Those discussing issues with the group included Buddy Jacobs, a lawyer representing the Florida Prosecuting Attorneys Association. Jacobs recommended the law's repeal, stating that modifying the law would not fix its problems. In a July 16, 2013 speech in the wake of the jury verdict acquitting George Zimmerman of charges stemming from the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, Attorney General Eric Holder criticized stand-your-ground laws as \"senselessly expand[ing] the concept of self-defense and sow[ing] dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods.\" The defendant, George Zimmerman, claimed he was restrained at the time of the shooting, thus allowing no option for retreat and making 'stand your ground' irrelevant to the case. \n\nIn 2014, Florida's legislature considered a bill that would allow people to show a gun or fire a warning shot during a confrontation without drawing a lengthy prison sentence. In 2017 there was a bill proposed in Florida's state legislature that would require the prosecution to prove that a defendant's use of self-defense was not valid. In 2018, the Shooting of Markeis McGlockton led some civil rights activists and politicians to call for abolition of the statute.\n\nIn 2012, in response to the Trayvon Martin case, the \"Tampa Bay Times\" compiled a report on the application of stand your ground, and also created a database of cases where defendants sought to invoke the law. Their report found no racial disparity in Florida cases in which defendants claiming self-defense under the law are prosecuted, with Caucasian subjects being charged and convicted at the same rate as African American subjects, and results of mixed-race cases were similar for both white victims of black attackers and black victims of white attackers. Victims of African American attackers overall were more successful at using the law than victims of Caucasian attackers, regardless of the victim’s race claiming self-defense, but analysis showed that black attackers were also more likely to be armed and to be involved in committing a crime, such as burglary, when shot.\n\nA Texas A&M study found that when whites use the stand-your-ground defense against black attackers they are more successful than when blacks use the defense against white attackers. A paper from The Urban Institute which analysed FBI data found that in stand-your-ground states, the use of the defense by whites in the shooting of a black person is found to be justifiable 17 percent of the time, while the defense when used by blacks in the shooting of a white person is successful 1 percent of the time. In non-stand-your-ground states, the shooting of a black person by a white is found justified approximately 9 percent of the time, while the shooting of a white person by a black is found justified approximately 1 percent of the time. According to the Urban Institute, in Stand Your Ground states, white-on-black homicides are 354 percent more likely to be ruled justified than white-on-white homicides. The paper's author noted that the data used do not detail the circumstances of the shooting, which could be a source of the disparity. They also noted that the total number of shootings in the FBI dataset of black victims by whites was 25. A 2015 study found that cases with white victims are two times more likely to result in convictions under these laws than cases with black victims.\n\nA 2018 RAND Corporation overview of existing research concluded that \"there is moderate evidence that stand-your-ground laws may increase homicide rates and limited evidence that the laws increase firearm homicides in particular.\" As a result, the research paper recommended that Congress \"consider lifting current restrictions in appropriations legislation that limit research funding and access to data ... [and that] the administration should invest in firearm research ... [which includes] \"defensive gun use\". Justifiable homicides have been found to have increased by 8 percent in states with stand-your-ground laws. Economist John Lott says that states adopting stand-your-ground/castle doctrine laws reduced murder rates by 9 percent and overall violent crime by 11 percent, and that occurs even after accounting for a range of other factors such as national crime trends, law enforcement variables (arrest, execution, and imprisonment rates), income and poverty measures, demographic changes, and the national average changes in crime rates from year-to-year and average differences across states. One study found that the adoption of stand-your-ground laws caused a statistically significant increase in the raw homicide rate, and had only a very small positive effect on deterrence of crime. The authors of the study were unable to determine what percentage of the increase was justifiable homicide, due to the reporting of homicide to the FBI often lacking notation whether the homicide was justifiable or not.\n\nA 2012 analysis of stand-your-ground laws by economists at American University, using monthly data from the U.S. Vital Statistics, found a significant increase in homicide and injury of whites, especially white males. They also analyzed data from the Health Care Utilization Project, which revealed significantly increased rates of emergency room visits and hospital discharges related to gun injuries in states which enacted these laws.\n\nIn a 2007 National District Attorneys Association symposium, numerous concerns were voiced that the law could increase crime. This included criminals using the law as a defense for their crimes, more people carrying guns, and that people would not feel safe if they felt that anyone could use deadly force in a conflict. The report also noted that the misinterpretation of clues could result in use of deadly force when there was, in fact, no danger. The report specifically notes that racial and ethnic minorities could be at greater risk because of negative stereotypes.\n\nFlorida's stand-your-ground law went into effect on October 1, 2005. Florida state representative Dennis Baxley, an author of the law, said that the violent crime rate has dropped since the enactment of the law, though he said there may be many reasons for the change. Others have argued that the law may lead to an increase in crime. Violent crime data for 1995 – 2015 has been published by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.\n\nIn 2012, a study was published which found that after the Joe Horn shooting controversy in 2007 publicized Texas' stand-your-ground law, burglaries decreased significantly in Houston, but not in Dallas, over a 20-month period.\n\nA 2013 study in the \"Journal of Human Resources\" claims that Stand Your Ground laws in states across the U.S. contribute to 600 additional homicides a year. According to Mark Hoestra, co-author of the study: \"We asked what happened to homicide rates in states that passed these laws between 2000 and 2010, compared to other states over the same time period. We found that homicide rates in states with a version of the Stand Your Ground law increased by an average of 8 percent over states without it—which translates to roughly 600 additional homicides per year. These homicides are classified by police as criminal homicides, not as justifiable homicides.\" Although police officers make up for additional homicides, they are justified. These are not classified as murder because the officers are acting in the line of duty. Police are not required to retreat when acting in the line of duty.\n\nA 2015 study found that the adoption of Oklahoma's stand-your-ground law was associated with a decrease in residential burglaries, but also that the law had \"the unintended consequence of increasing the number of non-residential burglaries.\" In 2016, Mark Gius published a study that found that stand-your-ground laws were not associated with lower crime rates.\n\nA widely reported 2016 study in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" compared homicide rates in Florida following the passage of its \"stand your ground\" self-defense law to the rates in four control states, New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Virginia, which have no similar laws. It found that the law was associated with a 24.4% increase in homicide and a 31.6% increase in firearm-related homicide, but no change in rates of suicide or suicide by firearm, between 2005 and 2014. It noted that, \"[c]ircumstances unique to Florida may have contributed to our findings, including those that we could not identify,\" and \"[o]ur study examined the effect of the Florida law on homicide and homicide by firearm, not on crime and public safety\". The study was criticized by gun rights advocate John Lott's Crime Prevention Research Center for studying only one state. Gun enthusiast and attorney Andrew Branca, writing in \"National Review\", criticized the study for not distinguishing between justifiable homicides and murder, and for relying solely on statutory laws while overlooking case law (i.e. Virginia) in determining the data set. The study was praised by Duke University professor Jeffrey Swanson for its use of other states as controls, saying \"[t]hey look at comparable trends in states that didn't pass the law and don't see the effect.\"\n\nThe common law jurisdiction of England and Wales has a stand-your-ground law rooted in the common law defence of using reasonable force in self-defence.\n\nIn English common law there is no duty to retreat before a person may use reasonable force against an attacker, nor need a person wait to be attacked before using such force, but one who chooses not to retreat, when retreat would be a safe and easy option, might find it harder to justify his use of force as 'reasonable'.\n\nAny force used must be reasonable in the circumstances as the person honestly perceived them to be, after making allowance for the fact that some degree of excess force might still be reasonable in the heat of the moment. \n\nIt was once thought that in 'householder defence' cases, excessive force would be regarded as unreasonable only if \"grossly disproportionate\", but that view has twice been rejected by the courts. Grossly disproportionate force can never be reasonable, but lesser force might or might not be, depending on the circumstances. In \"R v Ray\" (2017) the Lord Chief Justice, giving the judgment of the Court of Appeal, said:\n\n\"If there is a threat of confrontation in the street, then the option to retreat may be important in determining whether the use of any force was reasonable. In the case of an intruder in the home, however, the option of retreat is unlikely to arise in many cases and therefore the degree of force used, although otherwise appearing to be disproportionate, might nonetheless be assessed as reasonable.\"\n\nIn Canada, as in England, there is no duty to retreat under the law. Canada's laws regarding self defense are similar in nature to that of England, as they center around the acts committed, and whether or not those acts are considered reasonable in the circumstances. The sections of the Canadian criminal code that deal with self defense or defense of property are sections 34 and 35, respectively. These sections were updated in 2012 to clarify the code, and to help legal professionals to apply the law in accordance with the values Canadians hold to be acceptable.\n\nThere is no explicit stand-your-ground or castle doctrine provision in the laws of the Czech Republic, however there is also no duty to retreat from an attack. In order for a defense to be judged as legitimate, it may not be \"manifestly disproportionate to the manner of the attack\".\n\nGerman law allows self-defense against an unlawful attack. If there is no other possibility for defense, it is generally allowed to use even deadly force without a duty to retreat. However, there must not be an extreme imbalance (\"extremes Missverhältnis\") between the defended right and the chosen method of defense. In particular, in case firearms are used, a warning shot must be given when defending a solely material asset. If the self-defense was excessive, its perpetrator is not to be punished if he exceeded on account of confusion, fear or terror .\n\nUnder the terms of the Defence and the Dwelling Act, property owners or residents are entitled to defend themselves with force, up to and including lethal force. Any individual who uses force against a trespasser is not guilty of an offense if he or she honestly believes they were there to commit a criminal act and a threat to life. However, there is a further provision which requires that the reaction to the intruder is such that another reasonable person in the same circumstances would likely employ it. This provision acts as a safeguard against grossly disproportionate use of force, while still allowing a person to use force in nearly all circumstances.\n\nThe law was introduced in response to \"DPP v. Padraig Nally\".\n\nA person who uses such force as is permitted by \"section 2\" in the circumstances referred to in that section shall not be liable in tort with respect to any injury, loss or damage arising from the use of such force.\n\nThe force used is only such as is reasonable in the circumstances as he or she believes them to be—\n\n(i) to protect himself or herself or another person present in the dwelling from injury, assault, detention or death caused by a criminal act,\n\n(ii) to protect his or her property or the property of another person from appropriation, destruction or damage caused by a criminal act, or\n\n(iii) to prevent the commission of a crime or to effect, or assist in effecting, a lawful arrest.\n\nIt does not matter whether the person using the force had a safe and practicable opportunity to retreat from the dwelling before using the force concerned.\n\nThis law does not apply to force used against a member of An Garda Siochána (Irish Police) or anyone assisting them, or a person lawfully performing a function authorised by or under any enactment.\n\n"}
{"id": "5188276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5188276", "title": "Stratesec", "text": "Stratesec\n\nStratesec (formerly known as Securacom and Burns and Roe Securacom) was a security company founded in 1987 and based out of Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. The company went public on October 2, 1997 on the American Stock Exchange and was delisted in 2002.\n\nAt IPO in 1997, Securacom listed among its clients Washington Dulles International Airport, Hewlett-Packard, EDS, United Airlines, Gillette, MCI, the World Trade Center, and other facilities including hospitals, prisons, corporations, utilities, universities.\n\nMarvin Bush, son of former US president George H.W. Bush, and brother to former US president George W. Bush, served on the board of directors from 1993 to June 2000.\n\nAfter the company went public in 1997, Securacom was ordered to change its name, as the result of a 1995 name infringement suit brought by SecuraComm, a smaller Pittsburgh-based consultancy. The court found a deliberate effort by Securacom to financially \"bury\" the plaintiff, Ron Libengood, and \"take everything he had\" by filing a barrage of frivolous arguments against Libengood and his attorneys in multiple jurisdictions. Appellate courts opined that Securacom \"tried to prevail by crushing Libengood and his corporation\" in a \"sweeping attempt to beat a financially weaker opponent through the use of vexatious litigation.\" The company changed its name to \"Stratesec\" in 1998.\n\nStratesec was delisted from the American Stock Exchange in July 2002 due to inability to make financing payments to ES Bankest, its primary shareholder, and other financial problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "4035452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035452", "title": "Structured sale", "text": "Structured sale\n\nA structured sale is a special type of installment sale pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. In an installment sale, the seller defers recognition of gain on the sale of a business or real estate to the tax year in which the related sale proceeds are received. In a structured sale, the seller is able to pay U.S. Federal income tax over time while having the seller's right to receive those payments guaranteed by a high credit quality alternate obligor. This obligor assumes the buyer's periodic payment obligation. Transactions can be arranged for amounts as small as $100,000.\n\nIn a structured sale, the buyer pays up-front cash instead of paying over a long period of time, in installments. Some of that cash is used as consideration for a third party assignment company to accept the payment obligation.\n\nThe assignment company then purchases an annuity from a life insurance company with high financial ratings from A. M. Best. Case law and administrative precedents support recognition of the original contract terms after a substitution of obligors. In addition, proper handling of the transaction will help the parties avoid problems with constructive receipt and economic benefit issues.\n\nAfter Allstate Life stopped taking new annuity business in 2013, other structured sale opportunities arose. In lieu of annuities, United States Treasury obligations held in a trust (treasury funded structured settlements) are used to fund the future cash flows. Some companies use Key Man Life Insurance Policies in place of annuities, which provide the added protection of a death benefit to the seller and a payout that continues long after the seller passes. This arrangement may preferable when the seller is interested in passing wealth to the seller's beneficiaries after death. A Key Man Policy may also pay out more than an annuity in certain circumstances.\n\nWhile negotiating the installment payments, the seller is free to design payment streams with a great deal of flexibility. Each installment payment to the seller has three components: return of basis, capital gain, and ordinary income earned on the money in the annuity. Under the doctrine of constructive receipt, with a properly documented structured sale, no taxable event is recognized until a payment is actually received. Taxation is the same as if the buyer were making installment payments directly.\n\nStructured sales are an alternative to a section 1031 exchange. In a 1031 exchange, however, the seller is required to continue to hold some form of property. Structured sales work well for sellers who want to create a continuing stream of income without management worries. Retiring business owners and downsizing homeowners are examples of sellers who can benefit.\n\nThe structured sale must be documented, and money must be handled in such a way that the ultimate recipient is not treated as having constructively received the payment prior to the time it is actually made. For the buyer, there is no difference from a traditional cash-and-title-now deal, except for additional paperwork. Because of tax advantages to the seller, structuring the sale might, however, make the buyer's offer more attractive. Because the buyer has paid in full, the buyer gets full title at time of closing.\n\nThere are no direct fees to the buyer or seller to employ the structured sale strategy.\n\nAlternatives\n\nA sales method called the Installment sale and a Monetized Installment Sale, are variations of the Structured sale and is intended to protect the seller completely from the risk in connection with the buyer's creditworthiness.\n\nThere are some confusion when it comes to the subject of Structured Sale and a Structured settlement. A Structured sale is partially explained above, a Structured settlement involves the Monetization of a settlement that might occur from a lawsuit or an agreement to Structure the settlement of an action whereby the beneficiary of that action receives benefits over a period of time.\n\nThe structured settlement specialist who implements the transaction is paid directly by the life insurance company that writes the annuity, or by the service provider for the treasury funded structured settlements.\n\nThe internal rate of return is comparable to long term high quality debt instruments.\n\nInternal Revenue Service Private Letter Ruling 150850-07, dated June 2, 2008, confirmed the IRS position the taxpayer does not constructively receive payment for tax purposes until the actual cash payment is made pursuant to a properly drafted non-qualified assignment.\n"}
{"id": "10916051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10916051", "title": "Subordination (finance)", "text": "Subordination (finance)\n\nSubordination in banking and finance refers to the order of priorities in claims for ownership or interest in various assets.\n\nSubordination is the process by which a creditor is placed in a lower priority for the collection of its debt from its debtor's assets than the priority the creditor previously had, In common parlance, the debt is said to be subordinated but in reality, it is the right of the creditor to collect the debt that has been reduced in priority. The priority of right to collect the debt is important when a debtor owes more than one creditor but has assets of insufficient value to pay them all in full at the time of a default. Except in bankruptcy proceedings, the creditor with the first priority for collection will generally have the first claim on the debtor's assets for its debt and the creditors whose rights are subordinate will thus have fewer assets to satisfy their claims. Subordination can take place by operation of law or by agreement among the creditors.\n\nSubordination is also an issue in the priority of security interests in the ownership of property. For example, in real estate, mortgages and other liens on the title to secure the payment or repayment of money usually take their priority from the time they attach to the title. The purpose of this ordering of priority is to determine, in a foreclosure resulting from a default, who gets paid first with the sale proceeds from the foreclosure proceeding. Earlier mortgages or other liens are often subordinated by their holders to later ones in order to accomplish agreed-upon ends. An example is for the holder of a mortgage on undeveloped land to subordinate that mortgage to a later construction loan mortgage. The motivation is either the belief that improvement of the land will benefit the first lender or that the first mortgage requires that it be subordinated to a future construction loan.\n\nThe \"subordination percentage\" of a security is the percentage of the total capital which is subordinate to the security in question. Thus, the security will not suffer any losses until after that percentage of capital has been lost.\n\nIn the automotive financing industry, many dealerships are allowed to designate personal loans which are payable to the ownership as subordinable debt. The finance institution and dealership may come to an agreement which allows this debt to stay within the confines of the financial statement and concurrently improve the dealership financial position from a liquidity perspective.\n\nBankruptcy courts in the United States have the power and authority to subordinate prior claims on the assets of a bankrupt debtor to the claims of junior claimants based on principles of equity. This is a remedy called \"equitable subordination.\" The basis for subordination is usually the inequitable conduct of the prior claimant with respect to junior claimants. Equitable subordination can be used to subordinate both secured and unsecured claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "1227309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227309", "title": "Summary execution", "text": "Summary execution\n\nA summary execution is an execution in which a person is accused of a crime and immediately killed without benefit of a full and fair trial. Executions as the result of summary justice (such as a drumhead court martial) are sometimes included, but the term generally refers to capture, accusation, and execution all conducted simultaneously or within a very short period of time, and without any trial at all. Under international law, refusal to accept lawful surrender in combat and instead killing the person surrendering (no quarter) is also categorized as a summary execution (as well as murder). \n\nSummary executions have been practiced by police, military, and paramilitary organizations and are frequently associated with guerrilla warfare, counter-insurgency, terrorism, and any other situation which involves a breakdown of the normal procedures for handling accused prisoners, civilian or military.\n\nIn nearly all civilian jurisdictions, summary execution is illegal, as it violates the right of the accused to a fair trial. Almost all constitutions or legal systems based on common law have prohibited execution without the decision and sentence of a competent judge, and the UN's International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) has declared the same:\n\nIn practice, though, extrajudicial killings have been performed by police and domestic forces in various countries and times, sometimes under martial law. It is also performed by armed bands fighting against governments and common citizens.\n\nUnder military law, summary execution is illegal in almost all circumstances, as a military tribunal would be the competent judge needed to determine guilt and declare a sentence of death. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule in emergencies and warfare where summary execution is legal.\n\nMajor treaties such as the Geneva Conventions and Hague Conventions, and customary international law from history, protect the rights of captured regular and irregular enemy soldiers, along with civilians of enemy states. Prisoners-of-war (POWs) must be treated in carefully defined ways which definitively ban summary execution, as the Second Additional Protocol of the Geneva Conventions (1977) states:\n\nHowever, some classes of combatants may not be accorded POW status, though that definition has broadened to cover more classes of combatants over time. In the past, summary execution of pirates, spies, and francs-tireurs have been performed and considered legal under existing international law. Francs-tireurs (a term originating in the Franco-Prussian War) are enemy civilians or militia who continue to fight in territory occupied by a warring party and do not wear military uniforms, and may otherwise be known as guerrillas, partisans, insurgents, etc.\n\nThough these soldiers could be legally jailed or executed by most armies a century ago, the experience of World War II influenced nations occupied by foreign forces to change the law to protect this group. Many of the post-war victors, such as France, Poland, and the USSR, had the experience of resistance fighters being summarily executed by the Axis if they were captured. The war also influenced them to make sure that commandos and other special forces who were caught deep behind enemy lines would be protected as POWs, rather than summarily executed as Hitler decreed through his 1942 Commando Order.\nThe Commando Order was issued by Adolf Hitler on October 18, 1942, stating that all Allied commandos encountered by German forces in Europe and Africa should be killed immediately without trial, even in proper uniforms or if they attempted to surrender. Any commando or small group of commandos or a similar unit, agents, and saboteurs not in proper uniforms, who fell into the hands of the German military forces by some means other than direct combat (through the police in occupied territories, for instance) were to be handed over immediately to the Sicherheitsdienst (SD, Security Service). The order, which was issued in secret, made it clear that failure to carry out these orders by any commander or officer would be considered to be an act of negligence punishable under German military law. This was in fact the second \"Commando Order\", the first being issued by Generalfeldmarschall Gerd von Rundstedt on July 21, 1942, stipulating that parachutists should be handed over to the Gestapo. Shortly after World War II, at the Nuremberg Trials, the Commando Order was found to be a direct breach of the laws of war, and German officers who carried out illegal executions under the Commando Order were found guilty of war crimes.\n\nAccording to Article 4 of the Third Geneva Convention of 1949, irregular forces are entitled to prisoner of war status provided that they are commanded by a person responsible for his subordinates, have a fixed distinctive sign recognizable at a distance, carry arms openly, and conduct their operations in accordance with the laws and customs of war. If they do not meet all of these, they may be considered \"francs-tireurs\" (in the original sense of \"illegal combatant\") and punished as criminals in a military jurisdiction, which may include summary execution.\n\nSoldiers who are wearing uniforms of the opposing army \"after the start of combat\" may be considered illegal combatants and subject to summary execution. Many armies have performed this kind of false flag ruse in the past, including both German and U.S. special forces during World War II. However, if soldiers remove their disguises and put on proper insignia \"before the start of combat\" in such an operation, they are considered legal combatants and must be treated as prisoners-of-war if captured. This distinction was settled by a military tribunal in the post-World War II trial of Otto Skorzeny, who led Operation Greif, an infiltration mission in which German commandos wore U.S. uniforms to infiltrate U.S. lines during the Battle of the Bulge.\n\nWithin a state's policy, martial law may be declared in emergencies such as invasions or insurrections, and in such a case constitutionally protected rights would be suspended. Depending on a state's interpretation of martial law, this may allow police or military forces to decide and carry out punishments that include death on its own citizens, in order to restore lawful authority or for other vital reasons.\n\nNote that this would not include killing a suspect who is directly endangering another's life, which police can always legally do, but rather, executing a suspect under one's control as a punishment. Proving that a summary execution fell under this legal exception would be exceptionally difficult, as one would have to show why a judgment and sentence of death absolutely needed to be meted out on the spot. Hence, these kinds of extraordinary acts are almost always seen as illegal violations of human rights.\n"}
{"id": "52289019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52289019", "title": "Tanning tax", "text": "Tanning tax\n\nThe tanning tax is a ten percent federal excise tax that the U.S. government requires tanning providers to collect on indoor tanning services. Tanning service providers must pay the tax each quarter to the IRS. The ten percent tax must be collected from the client, according to the IRS, similar to the collection of a sales tax.\n\nThe tanning tax originates from passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. The tax was among 21 new taxes that were included in the law.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", the tax was expected to raise $2.7 billion over the first decade. After five years of the tax going into effect, it raised less than $500 million.\n\nPhototherapy services, which the IRS defines as a \"service which exposes an individual to specific wavelengths of light for the treatment of dermatological conditions, sleep disorders, seasonal affective disorder or other psychiatric disorder, neonatal jaundice, wound healing, or other medical condition determined by a licensed medical professional to be treatable by exposing the individual to specific wavelengths of light\" are excluded from the tax if they are performed by a licensed medical professional on that professional's premises.\n\nIf tanning services are provided as part of a gym membership that is considered a \"qualified physical fitness facility\", the tax is not applicable.\n\nSpray tanning services, as well as the purchase of topical creams and lotions, are also excluded from the tax.\n\nAccording to the American Suntanning Association, almost 10,000 tanning salons have gone out of business since the tax went into effect, resulting in the loss of 81,000 jobs.\n\nPrior to passage of the PPACA, over 164,000 people worked in the tanning industry. As of June 2015 that number was 83,000. In California, the number of tanning salons dropped in half between passage of the PPACA in 2010 and 2015.\n\nBusiness owners say the \"little-noticed 10 percent tax on tanning in President Barack Obama's health care overhaul has crippled the industry,\" according to the \"Denver Post\". However, experts say the tanning industry is overstating the tax's effects on jobs and business closings, and that other factors such as public health warning against tanning play into the equation.\n\nIn the U.S. House, Congressman George Holding of North Carolina introduced a bill on June 9, 2015. H.R. 2698, \"The Tanning Tax Repeal Act of 2015\" would repeal the ten percent excise tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "20944144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20944144", "title": "Tarnac Nine", "text": "Tarnac Nine\n\nThe Tarnac Nine are a French group of nine alleged anarchist saboteurs: Mathieu Burnel, Julien Coupat, Bertrand Deveaux, Manon Glibert, Gabrielle Hallez, Elsa Hauck, Yildune Lévy, Benjamin Rosoux and Aria Thomas. They were arrested on November 11, 2008 in an operation carried out by French police throughout Paris, Rouen and particularly Tarnac, rural France. The operation resulted in twenty arrests, of whom eleven were released almost immediately afterward. The remaining nine who were held for questioning, and who on November 15 were variously listed as suspects and accused of crimes, then became known as the Tarnac Nine. One year later, Glibert's husband Christophe Becker was also arrested in Tarnac in connection with the matter; as a result, the group is also sometimes known as the Tarnac Ten.\n\nThe group were \"accused of 'criminal association for the purposes of terrorist activity' on the grounds that they were to have participated in the sabotage of overhead electrical lines on France's national railways.\" In late October and early November of 2008, horseshoe-shaped iron bars were used to obstruct power cables of the TGV railways at locations throughout France, resulting in delays for about 160 trains. In particular, one instance of this occurred on November 7-8, 2008, in Dhuisy, Seine-et-Marne, near Paris. On the same night, Coupat and his partner Lévy were driving in the area, under police surveillance. Three days later, the arrests were made. On April 12, 2018, following a long and complex legal case, the group were acquitted of the most serious charges brought against them, including sabotage and conspiracy, with some members being convicted on lesser charges.\n\nThe original group of nine consists of five women and four men, aged from 22 through 34 at the time of the arrests, who are generally well-educated. Coupat was a former graduate student and is a political writer, having contributed to a philosophical journal called \"Tiqqun\". Coupat's partner, Lévy, is an archaeologist. Others have been described as \"a Swiss sitcom actor (Thomas), a distinguished clarinettist (Glibert), a student nurse (Hallez, an ex-partner of Coupat's) and Benjamin Rosoux, an Edinburgh University graduate who runs the (Tarnac's) grocer's shop and its adjoining bar-restaurant.\" At the time of the arrests, Deveaux and Hauck were also described as beginning graduate students in sociology and English, respectively.\n\nThe nine were part of a larger group of like-minded, left-wing young people who sought to relocate to a rural area in order to live simply and communally, shunning consumerism. Consequently, they scouted locations and settled on Tarnac, both for its rural setting and also for the similar political orientation of the local residents: in Limousin, Tarnac is part of an area of France which has a long history with communism and the French Resistance of World War II, having successfully avoided German occupation. Upon moving in, the group began operating a disused shop and bar, and began community initiatives such as a film club and food delivery services for elderly locals. The newcomers were generally well-liked by their neighbors. On the other hand, authorities have rejected this positive image of the group, instead describing them as an anarchist terrorist cell who sought a rural location as a base of operations and who shunned cell phones in order to avoid detection by authorities.\n\nFrom the time of the arrests until 2018, the group had been involved in complex legal proceedings in which the members faced various criminal charges related to terrorism, sabotage, conspiracy, and refusal to submit to biological sampling. Four of the nine were released shortly after the arrests; Glibert, Hallez and Rosoux were later released on December 2, 2008, and Lévy was released on January 16, 2009. Coupat, who was presumed by the prosecution to be the group's leader, was released on May 28, 2009. In late November 2009, a further arrest was made: Christophe Becker, husband of Glibert, was arrested in Tarnac on related suspicions, and released shortly thereafter. In response, and in defiance of the judicial supervision with which they were ordered to comply, the nine met and jointly wrote a letter, published in \"Le Monde\" in early December: \"Why we will no longer respect the judicial restraints placed upon us.\" The group's judicial supervision orders were lifted on December 18, 2009, and due to the new arrest, the group are sometimes instead described as \"the Tarnac Ten\".\n\nThe prosecution's case was based upon police surveillance of the group, particularly the above proximity of Coupat and Lévy to a site where sabotage occurred. Further, the group generally (and Coupat specifically) were suspected of being possible members of the Invisible Committee, an anonymous author (or authors) who wrote \"The Coming Insurrection\", an anti-capitalist, anarchist tract originally published in 2007 which admonishes its readers to \"form communes\" and disrupt infrastructure, reminiscent of the politics and activities which the group were actually engaged in, and also of the specific crimes with which they were accused. In particular, according to the prosecution, one passage of the book seems to directly anticipate the rail sabotage: \n\nOver time, the prosecution's case weakened. As the case progressed, it was asserted that the method of sabotage employed could not have caused injuries, but merely disruption. Thierry Fragnoli, a magistrate originally assigned to the case, recused himself in April 2012. In addition to being released from jail and having their judicial supervision lifted (despite the seriousness of the accusations), on August 7, 2015, magistrate Jeanne Duyé ordered that the specifically \"terrorist\" related charges against the group be dropped, a judgment which was upheld by the French supreme court. On April 12, 2018, the group were acquitted of the most serious remaining charges brought against them, particularly sabotage and conspiracy, while certain members were convicted on lesser charges with minimal or no sentences.\n\nIn response to the publicity of the arrests, several philosophers came to the support of the nine, including Giorgio Agamben, Alberto Toscano, Alain Badiou, and Slavoj Žižek. Further, several international \"support committees\", on behalf of the nine, \"have sprung up across France and in the US, Spain, and Greece\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30317667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30317667", "title": "Uniform Machine Gun Act", "text": "Uniform Machine Gun Act\n\nThe Uniform Machine Gun Act was drafted and published by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. Maryland (1939), South Dakota (1939), Arkansas (1947), Montana (1947), Wisconsin (1947), Connecticut (1947), and Virginia (1950) adopted the act as law.\n\n"}
