{"id": "412336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412336", "title": "Adolph Coors III", "text": "Adolph Coors III\n\nAdolph Coors III (January 12, 1916 – February 9, 1960) was the grandson of Adolph Coors and heir to the Coors Brewing Company empire.\n\nCoors was born on January 12, 1915, the son of Alice May (née Kistler; 1885–1970) and Adolph Coors Jr. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. Like his father and his youngest brother Joseph Coors, Adolph graduated from Cornell University, where he was president of the Quill and Dagger society and a member of The Kappa Alpha Society. Coors was also a semi-professional baseball player. At the time of his death, he was CEO and Chairman of the Board of the Coors Brewing Company in Golden, Colorado. Coors married Mary Urquhart Grant in November 1940. The couple had four children together.\n\nOn February 9, 1960, while on his way to work, Coors was murdered in a foiled kidnapping attempt by escaped murderer Joseph Corbett Jr. on Turkey Creek Bridge near Morrison, Colorado.\n\nOn the morning of February 9, a milkman discovered Coors' International Travelall on the bridge, empty of occupants and with the radio on. Police identified the vehicle as belonging to Coors and began a search of the area that turned up Coors' hat, glasses, and a blood stain. The following day, his wife Mary received a ransom note in the mail requesting $500,000 for his safe release. The subsequent manhunt for Coors' body, and his assailant, was the largest FBI effort following the Lindbergh baby kidnapping.\n\nOn September 15, 1960, a shirt belonging to Coors, and his skull, were found in a remote area near Pikes Peak.\n\nA witness turned up that revealed he had seen a yellow 1951 Mercury with the letters \"AT\" and numerals \"62\" somewhere in the license plate combination on the bridge around the time of Coors' disappearance. A car matching the description was found torched in a dump in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Investigators traced the car back to a Colorado resident named Walter Osborne, who suspiciously moved out of his Denver apartment the day after the kidnapping. The name \"Walter Osborne\" was revealed to be an alias for Corbett. Due to international obsession with the case, including a picture of Corbett in an issue of Reader's Digest, Corbett was recognized by two neighbors in Vancouver, BC and was arrested.\n\nAs there were no witnesses, prosecutors built their case against Corbett through circumstantial and forensic evidence. Corbett's coworkers overheard him talking about a plan that would earn him over a million dollars and the ransom note typeface was traced back to Corbett's typewriter. The biggest piece of evidence, however, was the dirt found in the undercarriage of the yellow Mercury. Investigators were able to trace the car's path by noting the rare ink feldspar and granite minerals found in the area Coors' body was discovered. Corbett was convicted of first degree murder on March 29, 1961, and sentenced to life in state prison. He was released on parole in 1980 for good behavior and drove a truck for The Salvation Army until he retired. He died by suicide at the age of 80 in August 2009. He lived and died just 10 miles from where he killed Coors and always maintained his innocence.\n\nThe kidnapping was featured in the Forensic Files episode \"Bitter Brew.\" The 2017 true crime book \"The Death of an Heir: Adolph Coors III and the Murder That Rocked an American Brewing Dynasty\" by Phillip Jett details the kidnapping.\n\nAn avid skier, Coors was inducted into the Colorado Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "21453335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21453335", "title": "Adversarial purchasing", "text": "Adversarial purchasing\n\nAdversarial purchasing is the corporate practice of buying identical or equivalent items from competing suppliers. It is a form of strategic management designed to increase competition for a buyer's business in business-to-business relationships while simultaneously lowering the firm's dependence on a single supplier. Successful implementation of this strategy can lower the firm's prices and raise the service and attention from its suppliers.\n\n"}
{"id": "42089470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42089470", "title": "Armenian Street, Chennai", "text": "Armenian Street, Chennai\n\nArmenian Street, locally known as Aranmanaikaran Street, is one of the historical streets of the commercial centre of George Town in Chennai, India. The road runs north–south and connects Mannady Street in the north with the China Bazaar Road (NSC Bose Road) in the south. The street is dotted with several century-old historical structures.\n\nThe street is named for the Armenians, who were some of the early settlers in the city of Madras. Several moved to the long street of the commercial neighbourhood of George Town in the 1750s, eventually making the street bear their name. The locals, however, corrupted the name to Aranmanaikaran Street, which means the 'street of the palace people'.\n\nThe earliest existence of Armenians in India dates back to the late 8th century with the arrival of Thomas Cana along the Malabar Coast in AD 780. Although not much is known about his origin or mission, \"Portraits of Hope: Armenians in the Contemporary World\" by Huberta Von Voss indicates that he was lauded for his work for the rebirth of Christianity. However, it was not until the 1660s that the Armenian presence in Madras became eminent. According to \"Madras: The Land, The People and Their Governance\" by S. Muthiah, the earliest Armenian tombstone in the city is of Coja David Margar found near Little Mount, which dates back to 1663. The Armenians of Madras were believed to be the first to discover the sepulchre of St. Thomas upon the Mount and took the Portuguese there in the 16th century. Legend has it that the church atop the mount served as a lighthouse to guide Portuguese and Armenian ships around that time. Although the time when Armenians began settling down in the city remains obscure, records clearly suggest that the Armenians monopolised trade between India and West Asia on the one hand and Manila, a Spanish bastion then, on the other. Their main trades included silk, spices and gems. The last Armenian to live in the city was Michael Stephen, who too left the city.\n\nThe long and narrow street houses several historically important buildings, including several places of worship. The Armenian Church is perhaps the most visible Armenian monument in the city. It was first built in 1712 and later rebuilt after the French siege in 1772. The first church was built of timber in the present High Court area after obtaining permission from the East India Company. The East India Company gave the Armenians 50 pounds towards managing the expenses of the church, which encouraged more traders to settle in and around the church. In \"Vestiges of Old Madras\", H. D. Love points out that the earliest Armenian church, situated in Old Black Town, as shown in Thomas Pitt's map, was probably built shortly after the Company entered into a covenant with the Armenian residents in India. The new church, however, was consecrated in Aga Shawmier's chapel grounds in George Town. It is the church that gave the street its name. The church has the biggest bells in the city, each weighing 200 kg and the oldest two dating back to 1754 and 1778, and its altar belongs to an earlier Armenian church that was near the Madras High Court. Two other bells were gifted by Eliazar Shawmier and the remaining two are from 1837. The church complex also served as a cemetery for the Armenian population in the city. Reverend Haroutiun Shmavonian, the founder, publisher and editor of the world's first Armenian periodical 'Azdarar', is buried here. Today, the Armenian church complex is managed by an Armenian trust based in Kolkata.\n\nThe St Mary's Co-Cathedral abutting the church dates from 1658, which became the Cathedral of Madras in 1886. The cathedral has several old oil paintings. The church's Parish Hall hosted several Tamil music concerts of the Tamil Isai Sangam in the 1940s, when orthodox groups opposed the move to propagate Tamil songs in Carnatic music, which had several musical icons of the day such as M. S. Subbulakshmi, K. B. Sundarambal and M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar singing in it. The Tamil Isai Sangam functioned from Gokhale Hall from 1944 to 1953. St. Mary's Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, one of the oldest schools in India and one of the first five schools to be set up during the British period, is located adjacent to St Mary's Co-Cathedral and is established in 1839.\n\nThe most visible Armenian monument in Chennai is the much-written about Armenian church, which was first built in 1712 and later rebuilt after the French siege in 1772. The first church was built of timber in the present High Court area with permission from the East India Company. The Armenians were given 50 pounds to manage the expenses of the church. This encouraged more traders to settle in and around the area. Vestiges of Old Madras by H.D. Love points out that the earliest Armenian church, situated in Old Black Town, as shown in Thomas Pitt’s map, was probably built shortly after the Company entered into a covenant with the Armenian residents in India. The new church, however, was consecrated in Aga Shawmier’s chapel grounds in George Town. The street on which the church is situated continues to be called the Armenian Street, where the settlers once lived.\n\nThe street is also the headquarters of Binny's, a leading business establishment of the city from 1799 till its closure in the 1990s, which moved the office to the area in 1812. The headquarters building is a classic structure with curved verandahs, huge halls and teak wood stairs. However, the fate of the building remains obscure since the closure of the organisation.\n\nThe headquarters building of the Young Men's Indian Association (YMIA), built by Annie Besant in 1915, is located next to Binny's. The building also housed an oratory called the Gokhale Hall, which, in time, became a venue for public meetings and performances by public artists. The age-old building is now expected to be demolished.\n\nThe street is also home to the old Hindu temple of Kachchaleswarar Koil.\n\n"}
{"id": "19334868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19334868", "title": "Association of Canadian Engineering Companies", "text": "Association of Canadian Engineering Companies\n\nThe Association of Consulting Engineering Companies also known as ACEC - Canada, and formerly called the Association of Canadian Engineering Companies, is an association of six hundred independent engineering consultancies across Canada.\n\nIts members offer professional engineering services to the public and private sectors worldwide. Based in Ottawa, the association's mission is to promote a business environment that recognizes and rewards Canadian consulting engineering companies' expertise and contributions to society.\n\nThe members are independent consulting engineering firms as well as twelve affiliated provincial and territorial member organizations. Members range in size from single-person operations to multinational companies.\n\nThe association publishes a serial magazine, the \"Canadian Consulting Engineer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4574414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4574414", "title": "Average per-bit delivery cost", "text": "Average per-bit delivery cost\n\nAverage Per-Bit Delivery Cost, or APBDC, is one relatively common method by which Internet Service Providers calculate their cost of goods sold. \n\nAverage Per-Bit Delivery Cost averages the cost of however many bits were actually sent or received across a link with the actual cost of operation of the link. This is contrasted principally with flat-rate and 95th percentile functions, which are typically used for billing rather than cost-accounting. In typical use, APBDCs of individual links or components of an operating network are compared with the APBDC of the whole, in order to evaluate the efficiency of the components, and to track improvements in effectiveness. \n\nHigh APBDC may reflect either a high cost, or a low utilization, either of which is detrimental to the price-performance of the network as a whole, and indicates an area that needs attention and improvement. Besides reduction in costs of existing network components, use of already-amortized or less expensive components, and transmission of greater volumes of traffic, fundamental or \"revolutionary\" changes to the topology of a network, such as the substitution of peering-derived bandwidth for purchased transit, often have substantial impacts on a network's APBDC.\n\n"}
{"id": "19819335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19819335", "title": "Bjarne Eriksen (businessman)", "text": "Bjarne Eriksen (businessman)\n\nBjarne Gotfred Eriksen (31 July 1886 – 13 November 1976) was a Norwegian businessperson and fencer.\n\nHe was born in Trondheim. He competed in the individual foil and épée events at the 1912 Summer Olympics. His brother Einar competed at the same Olympics in rowing.\n\nHe was hired as a Supreme Court barrister in 1917, but started a career in Norsk Hydro in 1926. He was originally head of the judicial and financial department, but was then promoted to Director-General (CEO) in 1941. \n\nAfter the German occupation of Norway, the Germans wanted to further increase output of heavy water; the situation escalated, until Hydro's top management protested, and in early 1943, Bjarne Eriksen, the company's managing director, was arrested and sent to a concentration camp in Germany.\n\nAfter the War, Erikson returned to his position, where he remained until 1956; after this he was chairman of the board from 1957 to 1960.\n"}
{"id": "21575963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21575963", "title": "Carl Lundström", "text": "Carl Lundström\n\nCarl Ulf Sture Lundström (born 13 April 1960 in Filipstad, Sweden) is a Swedish businessman.\n\nCarl Lundström is the son of Ulf Lundström and the grandson of Karl Edvard Lundström, founder of the world's largest crisp bread producer Wasabröd. When his father Ulf Lundström died in 1973, Carl Lundström was one of five heirs to Wasabröd. In 1982 Wasabröd was sold to the Swiss pharmaceutical company Sandoz. Lundström has founded and financed a number of companies, notably Swedish telecom, internet and co-location provider Rix Telecom.\n\nLundström has been involved with various far-right political organisations in Sweden.\n\nIn 1991, Lundström financed the Swedish Progress Party, which later merged with the party Sweden Democrats.\n\nIn 2001, the Swedish National Democrats party publicized having received a donation of SEK 5000 from Lundström.\n\nIn 2005, Lundström took part in an oppositional group within the Swedish Taxpayers' Association, protesting the association's passive stance on the issue of costs for immigration.\n\nIn 2003-2005, Lundström's company Rix Telecom provided services and equipment to torrent tracker The Pirate Bay. Lundström was one of the four defendants in The Pirate Bay trial charged with \"accessory to breaching copyright law\". On 17 April 2009 Stockholm district court found all defendants guilty and sentenced them to one year in prison and to jointly pay 30 million SEK (app. €2.7 million or US$3.5 million) in damages. The verdict was appealed. The appeal was a partial success, as his sentence was reduced to four months, but the fine was increased to 32 million SEK. The time in prison has been served.\n"}
{"id": "40292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40292", "title": "Carter Harrison Jr.", "text": "Carter Harrison Jr.\n\nCarter Henry Harrison IV (April 23, 1860 – December 25, 1953) was an American politician who served as Mayor of Chicago, Illinois (1897–1905 and 1911–1915). The City's 30th mayor, he was the first born in Chicago.\n\nHe was born on April 23, 1860 in Chicago.\n\nLike his father, Carter Harrison Sr., Harrison gained election to five terms as Chicago's mayor. Educated in Saxe-Altenburg, Germany, Harrison returned to Chicago to help his brother run the \"Chicago Times\", which their father bought in 1891. Under the Harrisons the paper became a resolute supporter of the Democratic Party, and was the only local newspaper to support the Pullman strikers in the mid-1890s.\n\nAs with his father, Harrison did not believe in trying to legislate morality. As mayor, Harrison believed that Chicagoans' two major desires were to make money and to spend it. During his administrations, Chicago's vice districts blossomed, and special maps were printed to enable tourists to find their way from brothel to brothel. The name of one Chicago saloon-keeper of the time supposedly entered the English language as a term for a strong or laced drink intended to render unconsciousness: Mickey Finn.\nHowever, Harrison was seen as more of a reformer than his father, which helped him garner the middle class votes his father had lacked. One of Harrison's biggest enemies was Charles Yerkes, whose plans to monopolize Chicago's streetcar lines were vigorously attacked by the mayor. During his final term in office, Harrison established the Chicago Vice Commission and worked to close down the Levee district, starting with the Everleigh Club brothel on October 24, 1911.\n\nIn spite of prolonged and very damaging international press coverage attaching responsibility to him for the 602 lives lost in the Iroquois Theatre fire on December 30, 1903, Harrison was a hopeful for the 1904 Democratic nomination for President, but was unable to negotiate his way through a tangle of conflicting loyalies to different Party bosses; the nomination went to Alton B. Parker, who was soundly defeated by Theodore Roosevelt.\n\nIn 1914 Harrison convinced City Council to establish a Commission for the Encouragement of Local Art to purchase works of art by Chicago artists. Harrison personally purchased artwork from painters such as Victor Higgins and Walter Ufer.\n\nIn 1915, when Harrison left office, Chicago had essentially reached its modern size in land area, and had a population of 2,400,000; the city was moving inexorably into its status as a major modern metropolis. He and his father had collectively been mayor of the city for 21 of the previous 36 years. \n\nHe died in Chicago on December 25, 1953, and is buried in Graceland Cemetery.\n\nHarrison wrote his autobiography, not once but twice; his wife, Edith Ogden Harrison, was a well-known writer of children's books and fairy tales in the first two decades of the twentieth century.\n\nHe was a member of many organizations including the Freemasons, Knights Templar, the Society of the Cincinnati, Sons of the Revolution, Sons of the American Revolution, Society of Colonial Wars, Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion and the Military Order of the World Wars. \n\nHarrison was a descendant of Robert Carter I, Benjamin Harrison IV, William Randolph, and Isham Randolph of Dungeness.\n\n"}
{"id": "42490995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42490995", "title": "Chris Beard (executive)", "text": "Chris Beard (executive)\n\nChris Beard is a Canadian business leader, and CEO of the Mozilla Corporation.\n\nIn January 1998, he co-founded The Puffin Group in Ottawa, Canada, which was acquired by Linuxcare less than two years later. Since then, Beard has mostly worked in senior product and marketing roles in a range of companies, including HP, Cluster File Systems, Inc. (acquired by Sun Microsystems) and Mozilla. He joined Mozilla in 2004, specifically to launch the Firefox browser but also having responsibilities for other areas of the organisation, including product, marketing, innovation, communications, community and user engagement at different times during his nine years there. Prior to his appointment as CEO he most recently served as Chief Marketing Officer.\n\nIn July 2013 he joined Greylock Partners as an executive in residence, though remaining an advisor to Mitchell Baker, Mozilla's Chair.\n\nBeard was appointed in April 2014 as the interim CEO at Mozilla Corporation. On July 28, Beard was confirmed in the position.\n\nHe is a runner, his first half-marathon being the 2010 Walt Disney World Half Marathon and his first full marathon being the 2013 Rock 'n' Roll San Diego Marathon.\n\nIn 2014, he was appointed to the national board of the Make-a-Wish Foundation.\n\nHe has an MBA in International Business from the University of Edinburgh Business School (2002–04), where he was also awarded the John McFarlane Prize for Leadership. He previously read economics and biochemistry at the University of Ottawa (1994–96).\n\n"}
{"id": "2466187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466187", "title": "Cold chain", "text": "Cold chain\n\nA cold chain or cool chain is a temperature-controlled supply chain. An unbroken cold chain is an uninterrupted series of refrigerated production, storage and distribution activities, along with associated equipment and logistics, which maintain a desired low-temperature range. It is used to preserve and to extend and ensure the shelf life of products, such as fresh agricultural produce, seafood, frozen food, photographic film, chemicals, and pharmaceutical drugs. Such products, during transport and when in transient storage, are sometimes called cool cargo. Unlike other goods or merchandise, cold chain goods are perishable and always en route towards end use or destination, even when held temporarily in cold stores and hence commonly referred to as cargo during its entire logistics cycle.\n\nCold chain logistics includes all of the means used to ensure a constant temperature for a product that is not heat stable, from the time it is manufactured until the time it is used. Moreover, cold chain is considered as a science, a technology and a process. It is a science as it requires the understanding of the chemical and biological processes associated with product perishability. It is a technology as it relies on physical means to ensure desirable temperature conditions along the supply chain. It is a process as a series of tasks must be performed to manufacture, store, transport and monitor temperature sensitive products.\n\nMobile refrigeration was innovated in 1940 by Frederick McKinley Jones, who founded Thermo King.\n\nCold chains are common in the food and pharmaceutical industries and also in some chemical shipments. One common temperature range for a cold chain in pharmaceutical industries is , but the specific temperature (and time at temperature) tolerances depend on the actual product being shipped. Unique to fresh produce cargoes, the cold chain requires to additionally maintain product specific environment parameters which include air quality levels (carbon dioxide, oxygen, humidity and others), which makes this the most complicated cold chain to operate.\n\nThis is important in the supply of vaccines to distant clinics in hot climates served by poorly developed transport networks. Disruption of a cold chain due to war may produce consequences similar to the smallpox outbreaks in the Philippines during the Spanish–American War.\n\nThere have been numerous events where vaccines have been shipped to third world countries with little to no cold chain infrastructure (Sub-Sahara Africa) where the vaccines were inactivated due to excess exposure to heat. Patients that thought they were being immunized, in reality were put at greater risk due to the inactivated vaccines they received. Thus great attention is now being paid to the entire cold chain distribution process to ensure that simple diseases can eventually be eradicated from society.\n\nTraditionally all historical stability data developed for vaccines was based on the temperature range of . With recent development of biological products by former vaccine developers, biologics has fallen into the same category of storage at due to the nature of the products and the lack of testing these products at wider storage conditions.\n\nThe cold chain distribution process is an extension of the good manufacturing practice (GMP) environment that all drugs and biological products are required to adhere to, enforced by the various health regulatory bodies. As such, the distribution process must be validated to ensure that there is no negative impact to the safety, efficacy or quality of the drug substance. The GMP environment requires that all processes that might impact the safety, efficacy or quality of the drug substance must be validated, including storage and distribution of the drug substance.\n\nA cold chain can be managed by a quality management system. It should be analyzed, measured, controlled, documented, and validated.\n\nThe overall approach to validation of a distribution process is by building more and more qualifications on top of each other to get to a validated state. This is done by executing a component qualification on the packaging components, an operational qualification to demonstrate that the process performs at the operational extremes and finally a performance qualification that demonstrates that what happens in the real world is within the limits of what was demonstrated in the operational qualification limits.\n\nPerforming thermal testing can also help with validating the cold chain. Certified test labs use environmental chambers to simulate ambient profiles that a package may encounter in the distribution cycle. Thermocouple probes and separate temperature dataloggers measure temperatures within the product load to determine the response of the package to the test conditions. Replicate testing based on a qualification protocols is used to create a final qualification report that can be used to defend the configuration when audited by regulators. It is normally best to have an individual that understands the principles of validation, when defending such processes to a federal regulatory body of any nation.\n\nCold chains need to be evaluated and controlled: \n\nDuring the distribution process one should monitor that process until one builds a sufficient data set that clearly demonstrates the process is in compliance and in a state of control. Each time the process does not conform to the process, the event should be properly documented, investigated and corrected so that the temperature excursion do not occur on future shipments. Any anomaly is thus considered to be a Non Conformance and should be assigned as a trackable event. The event must be reported immediately when it is identified and it is the expectation of the FDA that all adverse events be documented and investigated. The investigation should be completed in a timely manner and must come to some form of a \"root cause\" and also some form of \"corrective action\". The system may potentially stay in a Validated state if the root cause identifies that a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was not followed or followed incorrectly. If however a SOP needs to be changed or modified, then the system must be re-validated to demonstrate that the change to the SOP maintains the integrity of the process/system. A Non-Conformance may also generate a Corrective Action Preventative Action (CAPA), again, a documented process to make corrective or preventative actions to SOP's and other documents.\n\nNon Conformances and CAPA's are an essential part of the overall Quality System in the cGMP environment. Tracking and trending of these events will also allow businesses to monitor the overall \"health\" of the systems in place. Excessive Non Conformances can quickly identify areas of concern for management and allow for corrective actions to be taken. During regulatory inspections of quality systems, inspectors will frequently ask to review a list of all \"open\" Non Conformances\" so that they can quickly assess how an organization is processing these events and ensuring they are dealt with in a timely manner.\n\nThus the process is continually evolving and correcting for anomalies that occur in the process. Eventually the process can evolve into periodic monitoring once sufficient data demonstrates that the process is in a state of control. Any anomaly that occurs once a process is in a state of control may result in the process being invalidated and not in control and could potentially result in product withdraw from the market to ensure patient safety. A formal product withdraw is only done when the quality, safety or efficacy of a product is questionable. A single anomaly would not necessarily require a product withdraw if there is sufficient stability data that demonstrates that excursions will not affect product quality.\n\nIt is necessary to develop an internal documentation system as well as multi-party communication standards and protocols to transfer or create a central repository or hub to track information across the supply chain. These systems would monitor equipment status, product temperature history, and custody chain, etc. These help ensure that a food, pharmaceutical, or vaccine is safe and effective when reaching its intended consumer. It is also important to have a complete chain of custody for the entire life cycle of a product, so there is documented evidence as to whom had control of the product throughout the lifecycle of the product, up to the final users consumption of the product.\n\n"}
{"id": "2236126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236126", "title": "Death (cigarette)", "text": "Death (cigarette)\n\nDeath was an English brand of cigarettes which was owned and manufactured by the Enlightened Tobacco Company in the United Kingdom from 1991 to 1999.\n\nEntrepreneur BJ Cummingham invested his life savings to create and market an additive-free smoking product called Death. He founded the Enlightened Tobacco Company in 1991. Its product disclosed its hazardous nature by prominently displaying skull and crossbones on its outer package and came in two varieties; Death, and Death Lights. The product was marketed to the “young underground punk rock” consumer market. The products were sold for a time via mail order from Luxembourg to avoid the United Kingdom's excise tax, however after some time the Customs and Excise department disallowed this sales channel.\n\nThe company's plans to offer sponsorship to the Pacific Racing F1 in 1994 fell through after Roland Ratzenberger and Ayrton Senna were killed at the San Marino Grand Prix. That year the company was turned down by the \"top five poster contractors\" who would not provide the company with permission to use their sites because of its \"blunt\" marketing message and a pending parliamentary bill restricting tobacco advertising.\n\nThe company \"was losing a million pounds per year\" and could not afford a massive advertising campaign. The firms trademark rights were successfully challenged by an alcohol company called Black Death. The impending lawsuit barred the sale of Death cigarettes and the company closed down.\n\nDeath cigarettes were mainly sold in the United Kingdom, but was also sold in the United States, Norway and Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "3496304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3496304", "title": "Downtown Harrisburg, Pennsylvania", "text": "Downtown Harrisburg, Pennsylvania\n\nDowntown Harrisburg, is the central core business and government center which surrounds the focal point of Market Square, and serves as the regional center for the greater metropolitan area of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, United States.\n\nHarrisburg's downtown Center City comprises the original borough laid out in a grid pattern by John Harris in 1785. East-west streets are named and north-south streets are numbered. Market Street, running east-west, is the dividing point between north and south street designations. Sightseeing is probably best done on foot downtown and by car elsewhere.\n\nHarrisburg's Central Business District includes the Pennsylvania State Capitol Complex and other state government offices, the Dauphin County Courthouse and other county government offices, City of Harrisburg offices, and other, non-government related commercial retail and office development. Some residential development, both in apartment high-rises and in the upper floors of mixed commercial/residential use buildings, is also located in the downtown area.\n\nDowntown is bordered in the northwest by the mixed commercial/residential use Capitol District, in the west by the Susquehanna River, in the southwest by the largely residential Shipoke neighborhood, in the south by Interstate 83, in the east by Amtrak and Norfolk Southern Railway lines, and in the north by Midtown Harrisburg, a mixed-use commercial and residential neighborhood. Forster Street is usually considered the boundary between Downtown and Midtown Harrisburg. City Island, located in the middle of the Susquehanna River directly west of downtown, is typically considered part of Downtown Harrisburg.\n\nAs of the 2000 census there were 1,999 people living in downtown. The racial makeup was 64.4% White, 27.9% African-American, 2.2% Asian and 4.5% were Hispanic or Latino of any race. The largest age group is those aged 25–34 at 19.1% of the population.\n\nHarrisburg's downtown has become a vibrant scene of restaurants, nightclubs, shops and museums over the past several years.\n\nMost notably, the Harrisburg University of Science and Technology, founded in 2001, is located at the corner of Market and 4th streets. Temple University and Messiah College both have campuses downtown.\n\nIn 2007, the Harristown Development Corporation, a private authority formed to redevelop downtown Harrisburg, designated downtown Harrisburg bounded by Market to the north, 3rd to the west, Chestnut to the south, and 4th to the east as Harrisburg's \"SoMa\" or South of Market district. Harrisburg plans to add brick-accented walkways and SoMa banners on the light poles to indicate the district's location. The development corporation is trying to foster a desirable location for international business and arts.\n\n\nSoMa also includes several restaurants, bars and two nightclubs, an African-American bookstore, record store, and other shops.\n\nA small shopping mall, Strawberry Square, is the most notable commercial development in the downtown area. The Shops On Third is a collection of several upscale retail offerings along 3rd street just north of Market.\n\nMost of downtown's service retail is located along the Market and 2nd street corridors.\n\n2nd street from Market to Forster is sometimes referred to as Restaurant Row for its collection of eateries. Most of Harrisburg's nightlife also takes place on 2nd street, where several bars and dance clubs call home.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52041826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52041826", "title": "Duane Davidson", "text": "Duane Davidson\n\nDuane A. Davidson (born June 6, 1959) is the Washington State Treasurer, and was elected in November 2016, and took office in January 2017.\n\nDavidson was born and raised in the Snoqualmie Valley near the town of Carnation, WA into a family involved in dairy farming, logging and other small businesses. He graduated from Tolt High School, in Carnation. He started his undergraduate education at Bellevue Community College and transferred to Central Washington University in Ellensburg where he earned a Bachelor of Science in Accounting.\n\nDavidson is an actively licensed certified public accountant (CPA). Before winning the statewide post, he was elected to four terms as Treasurer of Benton County, Washington. He took that office following his initial election in 2003.\n\nImmediately prior to being elected as Benton County Treasurer, Duane was the Chief Financial Accountant for the county. Earlier in his career, as auditor for the Washington State Auditor’s Office, he served as the Assistant Audit Manager in the Tri-Cities in charge of the Walla Walla regional offices.\n\nIn the 2016 elections, Davidson was elected state treasurer by winning 58% of the statewide vote against another Republican. He also won every single county in the state in the Washington general election race, something that no Republican has done in more than 50 years.\n\nCore duties of the Washington State Treasurer's Office include cash management, investments, and debt management. Under state law, the Treasurer also chairs the State Finance Committee, which reviews and authorizes debt issuances approved by lawmakers, and the Public Deposit Protection Commission. Additionally, the Treasurer serves on five other state boards or committees. These bodies have assigned duties relating to aspects of the economy, the state budget process, college savings plans, housing affordability, and investments made on behalf of public sector employees.\n\nDavidson has said his agenda as State Treasurer includes emphasizing financial education for consumers, and particularly students. In a May, 2017 visit to the Yakima, Wash. area, he visited a Junior Achievement program focusing on financial education and emphasized the utility of successful learning models already in use, rather than the development of new curricula by state agencies.\n\nDavidson has raised concerns about Washington state's total outstanding debt, and annual debt service costs. Currently state debt is almost $20 billion, and annual state debt service costs are about $2 billion. He has said he intends to issue the annual report from the Treasurer's Office on the state's debt position earlier in the year than the historical release date in December - one month prior to the start of the annual legislative session - and have the copies sent directly to the homes of lawmakers, so that they will pay more attention to the findings.\n\nDuring Davidson's tenure as Benton County Treasurer, available public documents show that total outstanding year-end debt dropped from $24.4 million as of December 31, 2012 to $12.6 million as of December 31, 2016.\n\nHe and his wife Kathy (deceased 2016), raised three children together – daughters Bailey (Young) and Kinzey, and son Luke – in the Tri-Cities. While a county treasurer, Davidson served three terms as President of the Washington State Association of County Treasurers (WSACT) and earlier served as the organization’s treasurer. Davidson is a long-time Kiwanian. He is the past-president for two separate Kiwanis Clubs in the Tri-Cities and served as treasurer for the Kiwanis Club of Tri-Cities Industry Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "23596235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23596235", "title": "Edward Parke Custis Lewis", "text": "Edward Parke Custis Lewis\n\nEdward Parke Custis Lewis (February 7, 1837 – September 3, 1892) was a Confederate Army colonel, lawyer, legislator, and diplomat who served as United States Minister to Portugal from 1885 to 1889.\n\nLewis was born at Audley, his family's plantation in Clarke County, Virginia, in 1837. He was the son of Lorenzo Lewis (1803–1847) and Esther Maria (née Cox) Lewis (1804–1885). His siblings included George Washington Lewis (1829–1885), Lawrence Fielding Lewis (1834–1857), John Redman Coxe Lewis (1834–1898), and Henry Llewellyn Dangerfield Lewis (1841–1893).\n\nHis paternal grandparents were Lawrence Lewis, a nephew of George Washington, and Eleanor Parke Custis Lewis, a granddaughter of Martha Washington. His maternal grandparents were Dr. John Redman Coxe, a Philadelphia physician who was a pioneer in vaccination, and Sarah Cox, whose sister Rachel Cox married the inventor John Stevens.\n\nLewis was educated at the University of Virginia and studied law, but pursued life as a planter at his Virginia estate. \n\nDuring the Civil War, he joined the Confederate States Army, eventually rising to the rank of Colonel. He served as aide-de-camp under General John R. Chambliss and as brigade inspector under General William Henry Fitzhugh Lee (his second cousin, since Lee's maternal grandfather, George Washington Parke Custis, was his great-uncle). He was captured and made prisoner of war twice, confined for a total of fifteen months at Fort Delaware and Camp Chase. After the war, he returned to his Virginia plantation.\n\nAfter the death of his first wife in 1866, he moved to Hoboken, New Jersey and opened a law office, which he maintained until his death.\n\nLewis was elected as a Democratic member of the New Jersey General Assembly from Hudson County in 1878. He was also a delegate to the 1880 Democratic National Convention and a member of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee in 1884, when he was active in the presidential campaign of Grover Cleveland. After the election of Cleveland, Lewis was appointed Minister Resident/Consul General to Portugal on April 2, 1885. He served until June 14, 1889, when he returned to Hoboken to resume his legal practice.\n\nLewis was first married on March 23, 1858 to Lucy Balmain Ware (1839-1866) of Berryville, Virginia, and they had five children, though only one survived past infancy. \n\n\nOn June 1, 1869 in Baltimore, Maryland, he married his second wife, Mary Picton (née Stevens) Garnett (1840-1903), the widow of Virginia politician Muscoe Russell Hunter Garnett and daughter of Edwin Augustus Stevens. Mary was also his second cousin, since her paternal grandmother, Rachel Cox, was the sister of his maternal grandmother, Sarah Cox. Also, her brother Edwin Augustus Stevens, Jr. later married Lewis's niece, Emily Contee Lewis, in 1879. Together, Edward and Mary had four children, including:\n\n\nIn 1892, Lewis died of heart disease at his Hoboken residence at the age of 55. He was buried at Princeton Cemetery in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "31002925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31002925", "title": "Einar Westye Egeberg Sr.", "text": "Einar Westye Egeberg Sr.\n\nEinar Westye Egeberg Sr. (23 July 1851 – 7 June 1940) was a Norwegian businessperson and politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of Peder Cappelen Egeberg (1810–1874) and Hanna Wilhelmine Scheel. He was a brother of Ferdinand Julian Egeberg, first cousin of physician Theodor Christian Egeberg, a grandson of Westye Egeberg and a nephew of Westye Martinus Egeberg, surgeon Christian Egeberg and composer Fredrikke Egeberg. Through his brother he was an uncle of Westye Parr Egeberg, and through a sister he was a granduncle of Ferdinand Finne.\n\nIn September 1877 in Østre Aker he married Birgitte Halvordine Schou, a daughter of Halvor Schou. His own daughter Hermine Egeberg was married to Lord Chamberlain Peder Anker Wedel Jarlsberg. In turn, a daughter of theirs married diplomat Peter Martin Anker.\n\nHe is best known as the co-owner of the family company Westye Egeberg & Co, founded by his grandfather. He was hired in the company in 1867, and in 1874 he took over the company from his father together with his brother Ferdinand. He acquired burghership in Kristiania in 1882.\n\nHe was a member of the executive committee of Kristiania city council from 1891 to 1894. He was a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway during the term 1892–1894, representing the urban constituency \"Kristiania, Hønefoss og Kongsvinger\". He was also a board member of Kristiania Port Authority, and chaired \"Christiania Handelsstands Forening\" from 1904 to 1908. In 1905 he was declared a lifetime member of the International Law Association. He was also behind the construction (1899–1901) of the Egeberg Castle, which he sold after his wife's death.\n"}
{"id": "47215941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47215941", "title": "Elbert Allen Drummond", "text": "Elbert Allen Drummond\n\nElbert Allen Drummond (a.k.a. E.A. Drummond or Larry Drummond) (August 3, 1943 – July 30, 2012) was an American heir, businessman and philanthropist from Alabama. He served as the Vice Chairman of the Drummond Company, a large private coal corporation active in Alabama and Colombia.\n\nElbert Allen Drummond was born on August 3, 1943 in Birmingham, Alabama. His father, Heman Edward Drummond, founded the Drummond Company, a coal-mining company active in Alabama and Colombia, in 1935.\n\nHe was educated at the Sipsey School and the Walker County High School in Jasper, where he played on the football and baseball teams. He attended Walker College for two years. He then attended Samford University, but transferred to the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, where he joined the Beta Alpha Psi fraternity. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in Commerce and Business Administration in 1965. He went on to receive a master's degree in Accounting from UA in 1966 and a Juris Doctor in 1969 from the University of Alabama School of Law. He joined the American Bar Association and the Alabama Bar Association.\n\nDrummond joined the family business, the Drummond Company. He later served as its Vice Chairman as well as the Chairman of its Executive Committee. Under his leadership, he helped foster business ties with Japanese companies.\n\nDuring 1979-1980, Drummond, together with his brother, Garry, and company executive Clyde Black, was indicted for bribing three Alabama legislators, by means of supplying them with prostitutes. The trial lasted three months, but it was dismissed by Judge Frank McFadden; the record is now sealed.\n\nDrummond served on the Board of Directors of the First Commercial Bank.\n\nDrummond was inducted into the Alabama Business Hall of Fame and the Alabama Academy of Honor in 2011.\n\nDrummond served on the Board of Directors of the Black Warrior Council of the Boy Scouts of America and United Way of Central Alabama’s Le Societe National. He served on the Boards of Visitors of the Culverhouse College of Commerce and the University of Alabama President’s Cabinet. Additionally, he served on the Board of Trustees of the Walker Area Community Foundation and the Alabama Conservation and Natural Resources Foundation.\n\nDrummond was a significant donor to the Republican National Committee, the National Republican Congressional Committee, and the Alabama Republican Party. He also donated to the campaigns of Republican politicians Bill McCollum, Richard Shelby, Jennifer Dunn, Terry Everett, Robert Aderholt, Mike Rogers, Katherine Harris, and Johnny Isakson, as well as to the 2004 re-election of President George W. Bush. He also donated US$51,750 to Bob Riley's gubernatorial campaign. Critics suggested this latter donation may explain why he was able to acquire land sold from the former Farquhar Cattle Ranch, even though Drummond denied any wrongdoing.\n\nHe served on the Board of Directors of the American Family Business Institute. He testified before the United States Senate Committee on Finance about the estate tax on November 14, 2007.\n\nHe married Abbie Kiker, his high school sweetheart, at the age of nineteen. They had two sons, Scott A. Drummond and Patrick L. Drummond, and a daughter, Terri Drummond Lyon.\n\nHe died on July 30, 2012, at the age of sixty-eight. His funeral took place at the First Baptist Church in Jasper, Alabama. He was buried at the Pisgah Baptist Church and Cemetery in Sipsey, Alabama.\n\nIn 2012, a US$50,000 scholarship was named in his honor at his alma mater, the University of Alabama, as a result of a fundraising one-shot turkey hunt held by the Alabama Conservation and Natural Resources Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "2903105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903105", "title": "Entrepreneurial network", "text": "Entrepreneurial network\n\nIn business, entrepreneurial networks are social organizations offering different types of resources to start or improve entrepreneurial projects. Having adequate human resources is a key factor for entrepreneurial achievements. Combined with leadership, the entrepreneurial network is a social network not only necessary to properly run the business or project, but also to differentiate the business from similar projects. \n\nThe goal of most entrepreneurial networks is to bring together a broad selection of professionals and resources that complement each other's endeavors. Initially, a priority is to aid successful business launches. Subsequently, to provide motivation, direction and increase access to opportunities and other skill sets. Promotion of each member's talents and services both within the network and out in the broader market increases opportunities for all participants.\n\nOne of the key needs of any startup is capital, and often entrepreneurial networks focus on providing such financial resources, particularly tailored to their membership demographic.\n\nEntrepreneurial networks may also become community involved, endorsing reforms, legislation or other municipal drives that accommodate their organization's goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36586261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36586261", "title": "Ernst &amp; Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award", "text": "Ernst &amp; Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award\n\nThe Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Awards or EY Entrepreneur of the Year Awards is an award sponsored by Ernst & Young in recognition of entrepreneurship. Founded in 1986 in Milwaukee with just one award, as of 2016, twenty-five programs were run in all fifty states of the United States and also run in more than sixty countries.\n\nDespite the name, the award can be given to multiple individuals per year; for example, in 2013 there were ten winners in the state of New York, with winners awarded in the categories of retail and consumer products; technology; family business; emerging; energy, chemical and mining; food products and services; real estate, hospitality, and construction; financial services; digital media; and transformational. In 2014, there were eleven national winners in the United States; with one individual recognized as the Overall Award Winner.\n\nThe Entrepreneur of the Year Awards have been awarded to over 10,000 people since 1986, averaging 400 recipients annually.\n\nAnnually, each of the overall country winners gather in Monte Carlo, Monaco, for the annual EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Award. EY Entrepreneur of the Year Nominees are reviewed by an independent judging panel composed of several distinguished business leaders and previous award recipients. All country winners will be inducted into the World Entrepreneur of the Year Academy and to the Entrepreneur of the Year Hall of Fame, on permanent display at Ernst & Young's US headquarters at 5 Times Square in New York City.\n\nAlong with the World Entrepreneur of the Year EY also bestows other award titles.\n\nRecognizes the achievements of business leaders who have taken their legacy to a new level. This award is peer-selected by EOY alumni that form the Global Alumni Council. Recipients of this award are considered to be EOY alumni.\n"}
{"id": "5622782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5622782", "title": "Grandfather principle", "text": "Grandfather principle\n\nThe grandfather principle is related to the control and order within hierarchical organisations.\n\nExamples of the principle's use in decision making:\n\n\nExamples of the principle's use related to responsibility and authorisation:\n\n\nExamples of the principle's use to limit organisational corruption:\n\n"}
{"id": "53692426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53692426", "title": "Henry Wong (politician)", "text": "Henry Wong (politician)\n\nHenry S. L. Wong () was a Hong Kong businessman and politician. He was an elected member of the Urban Council of Hong Kong.\n\nWong was born in Mei County, Guangdong Province, China. He ran the mining business in Malaysia in his early life and was a leader of the Chinese community in Ipoh, being the manager of the two local corporations and got to know many leaders in Malaysia and Singapore. Wong moved to Hong Kong with his family after the Second World War. He was involved in education industry and opened branches of schools.\n\nHe became the candidate of the 1969 Urban Council election for the Hong Kong Civic Association. He was endorsed by the Hong Kong and Kowloon Trades Union Council. In 1973, he was initially nominated by the Civic Association for re-election but failed to get re-elected.\n"}
{"id": "23388614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23388614", "title": "IBM Center for The Business of Government", "text": "IBM Center for The Business of Government\n\nThe IBM Center for The Business of Government produces and disseminates thought leadership that focuses on public management issues facing government executives at all levels. According to its mission statement, the center seeks to connect public management research to practice in order to improve government effectiveness and performance. It does this by funding independent third-party research, publishing a bi-annual magazine, producing a weekly radio interview program, convening discussions with practitioners and academics, and hosting forums and various blogs and other online content.\n\nThe center was originally formed in 1998 as the PriceWaterhouseCoopers Endowment for The Business of Government. When IBM acquired the management consulting arm of PriceWaterhouseCoopers in 2002, it was renamed. The center is led by Executive Director Dan Chenok, a former career federal executive for information policy and technology at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).\n\nThe IBM Center for The Business of Government is one of several dozen good government organizations located in Washington, D.C. that provide context and offer insights and practical, actionable recommendations that address federal government mission and management challenges.\n\nThe IBM center includes in its name “Business of Government” to emphasize its focus on the management and operation—not the policies—of government. It seeks to “bridge the gap” between research and practice by helping to stimulate and accelerate the production of actionable research.\n\n\"Unlike traditional scholarly outlets, the IBM Center makes explicitly clear that its reports are to be ‘written for government executives and managers’ and that in making the decision to fund research proposals, it looks for very practical findings and recommendations—not just theory and concepts—in order to assist executives and managers to more effectively respond to mission and management challenges.\"\nSince its inception, the IBM Center for The Business of Government has published more than 250 research reports and books in areas such as public sector management and performance, technology and innovation, security and privacy, acquisition and procurement, and citizen engagement. Reports are commissioned through a competitive funding process that occurs twice a year, in the spring and fall. Funded researchers have included academics from top schools of public management and business, including Harvard University, the London School of Economics, Syracuse University and Johns Hopkins University.\n\n\n\nFor more than a decade, the weekly radio program \"The Business of Government Hour\" has interviewed government executives who are changing the way government does business. As a platform for government executives to discuss their careers, agencies and agency accomplishments, as well as their vision of government in the 21st century, the program provides a forum for government leaders to highlight key initiatives, management challenges and successes.\n\n\"The Business of Government Hour\" has interviewed more than 300 government executives from deputy secretaries to C-Suite executives from a range of federal agencies, as well as state and local government executives. The show has interviewed such government executives and thought leaders as Admiral Thad Allen, Dr. Francis Collins, Dr. Anthony Fauci, Governor Tim Kaine, Dr. Raymond Orbach, Dr. Robert Braun, Dr. Kathleen Merrigan, General Michael Hayden, General James Clapper, Robert F. Hale, David Walker, Gene Dodaro, Michael Astrue, Ambassador Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, Craig Fugate, Alec Ross, Tom Allen, General Tony Zinni and Professor Joseph Nye.\n\nThe center’s “Governing in the Next Four Years” series, which examines issues facing the new presidential term, continues a series of transition-related materials that began with several publications in 2004 and continued in 2007, when Center Senior Fellow John Kamensky began writing a Presidential Transition blog that has been cited in the US and overseas.\n\nArticles written by center staff and posted to their blog are often syndicated, excerpted or quoted in government-oriented media platforms, such as AOL Gov, Government Executive, Federal Times, Federal Computer Week, and Government Computer News.\n\n"}
{"id": "6960562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6960562", "title": "Ion Mușuc", "text": "Ion Mușuc\n\nIon Muşuc (born 31 May 1951) is a Moldovan politician.\n\nIon Muşuc was born on 31 May 1951, in Bilicenii Noi, Sîngerei District. He is the former leader of the Social Democratic Party of Moldova.\n\nIn September 2006, Ion Muşuc and his son, Eduard, were accused of fraudulently churning collateral to the tune of 2 million Moldovan lei ($155,836). At that time, the elder Muşuc was the head of the opposition Social Democratic Party and Eduard Muşuc was a member of its leadership and the former director of the successful Internet provider Megadat. Ion Muşuc fled Moldova when the case was made public, while his son was arrested on charges punishable by 10 to 25 years in prison. Bail was set and rescinded several times until in April 2007, the court dismissed the accusation for lack of a substantive basis. Muşuc took his case to the European Court of Human Rights, and in November 2007 was awarded 12,000 euros ($17,590) for moral suffering and legal fees in connection with what the court termed his \"illegal detention.\"\n\nCurrently, his party has no seats in the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova.\n\n"}
{"id": "1068735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068735", "title": "Ivan Albright", "text": "Ivan Albright\n\nIvan Le Lorraine Albright (February 20, 1897 – November 18, 1983) was an American magic realist painter and artist, most renowned for his self-portraits, character studies, and still lifes. His dark, mysterious works include some of the most meticulously executed paintings ever made, often requiring years to complete.\n\nIvan Albright and his identical twin brother, Malvin, were born near Chicago in North Harvey, Illinois, to Adam Emory Albright and Clara Wilson Albright. Their father was a landscape painter, and came from a family of master gunsmiths, whose original name was \"Albrecht\". The brothers were inseparable during childhood, and throughout much of their young adulthood. Both enrolled in The Art Institute of Chicago, a coin-flip deciding that Ivan would study painting and Malvin sculpture. Ivan particularly admired the work of El Greco and Rembrandt, but was quick to develop a style all his own.\n\nAdam Albright moved his wife and sons to Warrenville, Illinois in 1924.\n\nAlbright attended Northwestern University, but dropped out and took up studies in architecture at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. During World War I he did medical drawings for a hospital in Nantes, France, morbid work that probably influenced his later style. After working in architecture and advertising briefly he was pushed away by commercialism and took seriously to painting. After living in Philadelphia through most of 1925 and 1926, he returned to Illinois, where he began to achieve some substantial success, having his first show in 1930.\n\nIt was not until the 1930s that Albright developed a meticulous and consistent technique for his works. The technique included creating numerous detailed drawings, creating his own color palette and painting with hundreds of little brushes. Albright's time-consuming technique not only allowed for detailed depiction of the physical deterioration of objects and people, but enabled him to incorporate a multitude of slight shifts in point-of-view and highlight the relationships between the objects. Albright’s combination of extreme realism with a violent and lurid color palette led art critics to categorize his work with the works of American Magic Realists.\n\nThe term, Magic Realism, came from the book \"After Expressionism: Magic Realism: Problems of the Newest European Painting’’ by Franz Roh. The style Roh described was taken on by Italian and German painters, and soon reached the United States. American Magic Realism is exemplified by the eerie and unnatural realistic artworks by some American artists in the 1940s and 1950s. Magic realist subject matter is not overly supernatural or extraordinary, but rather it attempts to showcase the mundane through an overly exaggerated and abnormal viewpoint.\n\nAmong Albright's typically dark, mysterious works are some of the most meticulously executed paintings ever made, often requiring years to complete. Lace curtains or splintered wood would be recreated using brushes of a single hair. The amount of effort that went into his paintings made him quite possessive of them. Even during the Great Depression he charged 30 to 60 times what comparable artists were charging, with the result that sales were infrequent. In order to survive he relied on the support of his father, and took odd carpentering jobs. An early painting of his, \"The Lineman\" won an award and made the cover of \"Electric Light and Power\", a trade magazine. However his stooped and forlorn portrayal caused controversy among the readership, who did not consider such an image representative. The editors later distanced themselves from Albright's work.\n\nAlbright focused on a few themes through most of his works, particularly death, life, the material and the spirit, and the effects of time. He painted very complex works, and their titles matched their complexity. He would not name a painting until it was complete, at which time he would come up with several possibilities, more poetic than descriptive, before deciding on one. Such an example is \"Poor Room - There is No Time, No End, No Today, No Yesterday, No Tomorrow, Only the Forever, and Forever and Forever Without End (The Window)\", the last two words actually describing the painting (it was as such the painting is generally referred). Another painting, \"And Man Created God in His Own Image\", was called \"God Created Man in His Own Image\" when it toured the South. One of his most famous paintings, which took him some ten years to complete, was titled \"That Which I Should Have Done I Did Not Do (The Door)\", which won top prize at three major exhibitions in New York City, Chicago, and Philadelphia in 1941. The prize at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York earned him a $3,500 purchase award and a place in the permanent collection, but, not willing to part with the work for less than $125,000, Albright took the First medal instead, allowing him to keep the painting. Albright was elected to the National Academy of Design in 1942.\nIn 1943 he was commissioned to create the title painting for Albert Lewin's film adaptation of Oscar Wilde's \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\". His realistic, but exaggerated, depictions of decay and corruption made him very well suited to undertake such a project. His brother was chosen to do the original uncorrupted painting of Gray, but the painting used on the film was from Henrique Medina. Ivan made the changes in the painting during the film. This original painting currently resides in the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nAlbright was a prolific artist throughout his life, working as a printer and engraver as well as a painter. He made his own paints and charcoal, and carved his own elaborate frames. He was a stickler for detail, creating elaborate setups for paintings before starting work. He was obsessive about lighting to the point that he painted his studio black, and wore black clothing to cut out potential glare.\n\nLater in life Albright lived in Woodstock, Vermont. His last visit to his old home town of Warrenville, Illinois was in 1978. The city declared Ivan Albright Day, and honored Albright with a full day of festivities. Albright's biographer, Michael Croydon, was on hand to present the newly published, richly illustrated book called \"Ivan Albright.\" The library featured a large display of photographs from Albright's years spent in Warrenville. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1979.\n\nDespite much time spent traveling the world, he never stopped working. Albright made over twenty self-portraits in his last three years, even on his deathbed, drawing the final ones after a stroke. He died in 1983.\n\nOn the 100th anniversary of Ivan Albright’s birth, February 20, 1997, the Art Institute of Chicago opened a major show of his work. \"Appears the Man,\" a photograph of Ivan Albright and his most famous work, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray,\" can be found in the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nThe Ivan Albright Collection of archival materials, held by the Ryerson & Burnham Libraries at the Art Institute of Chicago, includes photographs, scrapbooks, sketches, notebooks, a film, and other materials documenting his life and career.\n\nAlbright was the father-in-law of future United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, through his son Joseph Medill Patterson Albright's marriage to her; however, the couple divorced a year before his death. Albright remained with his family in Chicago for sixty-six years until moving to Woodstock, Vermont in search of a quiet lifestyle. In the 1970s, he served as a lecturer at Dartmouth College, and remained an active artist until his death in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2992666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2992666", "title": "John Hamilton, 2nd Lord Belhaven and Stenton", "text": "John Hamilton, 2nd Lord Belhaven and Stenton\n\nJohn Hamilton, 2nd Lord Belhaven and Stenton (5 July 1656 – 21 June 1708) was a Scottish politician.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Robert Hamilton, Lord Presmennan (d. 1696). Having married Margaret, granddaughter of John Hamilton, 1st Lord Belhaven and Stenton; who had been made a peer by Charles I in 1647, he succeeded to this title in 1679.\n\nIn 1681, he was imprisoned for opposing the government and for speaking slightingly of James, duke of York, afterwards James VII and II, in parliament, and in 1689 he was among those who asked William of Orange to undertake the government of Scotland. Belhaven was at the Battle of Killiecrankie in 1689. He was a member of the Scottish privy council.\n\nHe was a director of and invested heavily in the Scottish Trading Company, which was formed in 1695 and was responsible for the ill-fated Darien scheme to set up a Scots colony on the Darien peninsula in Panama.\n\nHe was also a proponent of agricultural improvement publishing a handbook, \"The Countryman's Rudiments\" in 1699.\n\nHe favoured the agitation for securing greater liberty for his country, an agitation which culminated in the passing of the Act of Security in 1705, and he greatly disliked the union of the parliaments, a speech which he delivered against this proposal in November 1706 attracting much notice. He was, along with Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun, one of the most eloquent and inflammatory of politicians. Two of his speeches, one being the famous one of November 1706, were published in an appendix to Daniel Defoe's \"History of the Union\" (first printed in 1710).\n\nLater he was imprisoned, ostensibly for favouring a projected French invasion, and he died in London on 21 June 1708.\n\nBelhaven's son, John, who fought on the British Government side at the Battle of Sheriffmuir, became the 3rd Lord on his father's death. He was drowned in November 1721, whilst proceeding to take up his duties as governor of Barbados, and was succeeded by his son John (d. 1764).\n\nAfter the death of John's brother James in 1777 the title was for a time dormant; then in 1799 the House of Lords declared that William Hamilton (1765–1814), a descendant of John Hamilton, the paternal great-grandfather of the 2nd Lord, was entitled to the dignity. William, who became the 7th Lord, was succeeded by his son Robert (1793–1868), who was created a peer of the United Kingdom as Baron Hamilton of Wishaw in 1831. He died without issue in December 1868, when the barony of Hamilton became extinct; in 1875 the House of Lords declared that his cousin, James Hamilton (1822–1893) was rightfully Lord Belhaven and Stenton, and the title descended to his kinsman, Alexander Charles (b. 1840), the 10th Lord.\n\n"}
{"id": "13692643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13692643", "title": "Klej Grange, Maryland", "text": "Klej Grange, Maryland\n\nKlej Grange is a small unincorporated community 3 miles (5 km) northwest of Stockton in Worcester County, Maryland. It is located at the intersection of Klej Grange, Betheden Church, and Ward Roads.\n\nThe acronym \"Klej\" was coined by Joseph William Drexel from the initials of the names of his four daughters (Katherine, Lucy, Elizabeth, and Josephine), and was combined with \"Grange\", perhaps a reference to the National Grange.\n\nFirst known as Trap, or Traptown, then for many years in the nineteenth century as Lindseyville, the community originally arose at the crossing of the roads leading from Mattapony Landing on the Pocomoke River to Sandy Hill (later Stockton) and from Snow Hill to Stevens Landing (now Pocomoke City). In 1878, Drexel purchased a substantial part of the estate of Matthias Lindsey, after whose family the crossroads had been known, to create a planned community where low cost farmland would be offered to benefit the poor. Drexel named Austin Thomas Byrne as superintendent of the project; Byrne surveyed and platted Drexel's agrarian-industrial experiment.\n\nDrexel and his brother Anthony, the founder of Drexel University, were sons of Francis Martin Drexel, founder of the banking house of Drexel & Co. A \"Famous Americans\" biographical capsule notes of Joseph W. Drexel: \nAmong his philanthropic interests is a farm near New York, where persons without work are lodged, clothed, fed, and taught agriculture until places are procured for them. He owns a large tract of land Klej Grange in Maryland, which has been divided into lots, and houses, mills, etc., erected upon them. These farms are sold to poor persons at cost. About in Michigan is destined for the same purpose.\nDrexel's project was cut short by his death in 1888. His widow and daughters had other interests and soon sold the property, much of it eventually deeded to the Worcester Realty Co. As with many similar projects, the community has today relapsed into the rural obscurity from which Drexel briefly roused it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2604032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604032", "title": "Knowledge process outsourcing", "text": "Knowledge process outsourcing\n\nKnowledge process outsourcing (KPO) \n\n(Outsourcing of job that require knowledge,skill, expertise. The work in KPO involves process like market research, survey analysis, data mining etc. ). information-related business activities which are competitively important or form an integral part of a company's value chain. \n\nReasons behind KPO include an increase in specialized knowledge and expertise, additional value creation, the potential for cost reductions, and a shortage of skilled labor. Regions which are particularly prominent in Knowledge Process Outsourcing include India, Sri Lanka, and Eastern Europe, especially Poland, Romania, and the Baltic States.KPO is a continuation of Business process outsourcing, yet with rather more of business complexity. To be successful in Knowledge process outsourcing, a lot of guide is required from interorganizational system.\n\nKPO services include all kinds of research and information gathering,e.g. intellectual property research for patent applications; equity research, business and market research, legal and medical services; training, consultancy, and research and development in fields such as pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; and animation and design, etc.\n\nThe developing rivalry has brought about shorter time to market cycles, and clients are getting to be more demanding regarding quality. This has constrained the firms to give operational proficiency and increase the value of their products and services. The customer can launch an item quicker and get to the market immediately. A company can lessen the complexities included in overseeing and constantly constructing information in an extensive pool of human resources.\n\nBenefits\n\nRisks\n\nA KPO firm requires considerably more skilled personnel than a BPO firm. Experts working in KPO keep on learning and accomplished professionals can power their aptitude to produce more incomes for the KPO firm. The main difference between a KPO firm and a BPO firm is that in a KPO firm, the customer is included amid the whole execution process.\n\nOut of all those who say they coined the term, Ashish Gupta, COO of Evalueserve has the best claim. Published authors have credited him for coining the term in their works.\n\nIndia has a large number of post-graduates, PhDs and MBAs who are involved in KPO. The Indian National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) estimated the total market size of the KPO sector in India in 2006 to be $1.5 billion. The year before, 2005, it had been $1.3 billion, with Evalueserve predicting that by 2010 it would be some $10 to $15 billion. The Indian government was predicting that by 2010 India would have 15% of the global KPO market. However, the global financial crisis, coupled with domestic economic problems such as the IPO of Reliance Power in 2009, caused people to re-evaluate these predictions, incurring worries that India's IT, BPO, and KPO sectors — which by then, combined, were $8.4 billion in export revenues — would be greatly affected by these factors. The worldwide KPO industry is expected to reach about US $17 billion by 2015, of which US $12 billion would be outsourced to India. Furthermore, the Indian KPO area is likewise anticipated that it will utilize more than 2, 50,000 KPO experts by 2015.\n\nThe KPO area has a considerable measure of potential for development in India. But India confronts various difficulties to secure itself as a worldwide KPO pioneer. The real test in setting up a KPO will be to obtain skilled employees. KPO organizations include high risk and confidentiality and the greater part of the work would be outsourced from the US. The area likewise obliges larger amount of control, confidentiality and enhanced risk management. Moreover, legal language and cultural barriers can result in genuine issues. Both organizations need to appreciate each other's corporate and national societies and find common helpful approaches to create successful participation.\n\nThe Philippines Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) services are often called \"non-voice\" or back office services, referring to activities outside contact center, customer and IT support services. In 2014, the KPO sector comprised 40 percent of the country's outsourcing industry. The Information Technology and Business Process Outsourcing Association of the Philippines (IBPAP) predicts that the Philippine outsourcing sector will reach $25 billion in revenues and employ about 1.3 million people by 2016.\n\nLike India's KPO industry, the Philippine KPO sector has evolved along similar lines. Starting with contact center services and low-value back office work like data entry and IT maintenance, the country is now considered an established destination for animation and design and content/publishing KPO services (Sathe and Aradhana, Sourcingmag.com). Back office and non-voice services contributed $1.1 billion in revenues to the country's outsourcing sector in 2009. Former IBPAP executive director for information research Gillian Virata said that the Philippine KPO industry is expected to reach the same market size as the voice service sector by 2015-2016. Non-voice services are already growing at a faster rate than traditional voice services. \n\nBanking and Finance Services \nThe banking and financial services industry is leading KPO activity in the country, with global financial institutions providing underwriting, research and analytics, training and consulting, profit and loss, risk mitigation, and other BFSI-related services. KPO vendors also provide strategic research, market research, financial services research, analytics, and competitive intelligence monitoring. \n\nLegal Services \nCompanies from the Philippines are expected to compete strongly with Indian providers of legal and paralegal services to the United States. Besides its cultural affinity with the West and excellent English proficiency of its talent pool, the Philippines used to be an American colony, and its laws are patterned after those of the U.S. Integreon is an established legal services provider in the country, specializing in discovery, contract management, compliance, legal research and knowledge management, intellectual property, and due diligence. \n\nMedical Services and Research and Development \nMany Chinese research and development pharmaceutical firms have set up offices in Metro Manila due to relatively lower rental and operating costs compared to traditional destinations. The country also has a pool of 250,000 nursing graduates, about half of which are expected to be employed in the healthcare services sector in 2016.\n\nAnimation and Design \nThe Philippines has established itself as a successful Animation and Design outsourcing destination. The Animation Council of the Philippines estimates that global animation industry revenues have been growing at 20 to 30 percent over the past few years, increasing demand for low-cost, highly skilled creative labor. The rise of the animation outsourcing industry in the Philippines began in the early 1980s, with FilCartoons, Burbank Animation Inc. and Asian Animation setting up operations in the country and providing animation exports to foreign companies. In 2008, the Philippines had over 50 animation companies, mostly small and medium-sized companies. Larger animation companies include TOEI Animation, Roadrunner and Toon City Animation Inc., which employs about 1,300 animators and artists (about 18 percent of the country's animation labor pool. Overall, the Philippines employed about 7,000 people in the animation sector in 2008 and generated up to US$97 million in 2006 and US$105 million in 2007.\n\nAlthough India has traditionally been a KPO destination for North American, British, and Australian companies, an increasing number of European companies are looking to Eastern Europe, especially the Baltic countries, to satisfy their KPO needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "15410446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15410446", "title": "LaVilla", "text": "LaVilla\n\nLaVilla is a neighborhood of Jacksonville, Florida, US and former independent city. Jacksonville's first suburb, it was annexed by the city in 1887 and now considered part of downtown. During its height, the area was considered \"the mecca for African American culture and heritage\" in Florida, particularly its northern sections. It remains primarily an African-American neighborhood.\n\nLaVilla lies to the northwest in Jacksonville's downtown. It is bounded by State Street to the north, I-95 to the west, Broad Street to the east, and Brooklyn to the south.\n\nJohn Jones, an Anglo-American colonist, received a Spanish land grant for much of this area in 1801, when this part of Florida was still Spanish territory.\n\nThe town developed as a suburb to Jacksonville. At different points in the American Civil War, when Jacksonville and northeastern Florida were under Union control, the area was the site of a large Union garrison. Many slaves sought refuge with Union troops and, under the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863, gained freedom. After the war, the town attracted additional freedmen, some of whom left rural areas, and was incorporated as LaVilla. The population was mostly black, and during the Reconstruction era (United States), many blacks were elected to positions in Lavilla's government, including mayor and councilmen. In 1887 LaVilla and five other suburbs, including Riverside and Springfield, were annexed by the City of Jacksonville. It became a neighborhood of the city. In 1902 the state legislature passed a new constitution, adopting barriers to voter registration and voting that resulted in the deliberate disfranchisement of African Americans and excluding them from politics.\n\nThe part of LaVilla north of Adams Street was for many years a center of African-American life and culture in Jacksonville. The southern part of the neighborhood was developed as a major railroad hub in the late 19th century; several rail lines met at Union Station (now adapted for use as the Prime F. Osborn III Convention Center). For a time, this was Jacksonville's primary red light district. The author Stephen Crane frequented this area during his time in Jacksonville; he met his future wife, Cora Crane, who was at the time a brothel proprietor.\n\nLavilla was the site of the Great Fire of 1901, which spread and destroyed most of downtown, but the neighborhood was largely spared. In the first half of the 20th century, the neighborhood was an important center of African-American culture. A vibrant music and entertainment scene emerged, attracting many nationally renowned jazz artists to play at local black clubs on and off Ashely Street. Such clubs were segregated under the state laws that imposed Jim Crow. In 1929 the Ritz Theatre opened, becoming an important stop on what was called the Chitlin' Circuit for black entertainers. It became LaVilla's primary performance venue.\nThe vibrancy of the area on Ashley Street west of Broad Street, to and including Davis Street, led to its being called the \"Harlem of the South\". Landmarks included Nick’s Pool Parlor (the Strand), the Frolic and the Roosevelt theaters for a diversion. The Wynn/Egmont Hotel was known to provide the best accommodations for touring performers; the Boston Chop House, Mama’s Restaurant and Hayes Luncheonette served good food; the Lenape Bar and Manuel's Taproom were the favorite watering holes. The Ritz Theatre and The Knights of Pythias Hall hosted numerous famous performers.\n\nAfter the 1960s, the neighborhood entered a period of precipitous decline. The railroad industry restructured, leading to a massive loss of jobs here and across the country. In addition, the construction of I-95 disrupted and divided the neighborhood. With the end of legal segregation following civil rights legislation in the mid-1960s, many residents left the area to pursue newer housing and work opportunities elsewhere.\n\nDuring the 1980s the crack cocaine epidemic hit hard among struggling residents of LaVilla, resulting in an increase in crime and furthering the decline. According to General Counsel Rick Mullaney, who was chief of staff under Mayor Ed Austin, the area became \"nothing but crack houses, prostitution and crime.\"\n\nThe 1993 River City Renaissance plan crafted by Mayor Ed Austin allocated millions of dollars to renovating and developing LaVilla. Dilapidated buildings were torn down and significant historical structures, such as the Ritz Theatre, were restored or reconstructed, often in public-private partnerships. The Ritz also serves as the LaVilla Heritage tourism has been emphasized.\n\nLaVilla is served by the Jacksonville Transportation Authority's zero-fare automated people mover system (known as the \"Skyway\") and an extensive bus network.\n\n\"Current Skyway Stations in LaVilla\"\n\n\nVenues, such as the Ritz Theatre, showcased black entertainers and catered to black audiences. The theatre still host shows and also offers visitors a look at black history.\n\nThe Jacksonville branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta is located on Water Street at the southern bounds of LaVilla.\nThe southern part of the neighborhood was once a major railroad hub, with several rail lines meeting at Union Station (now the Prime F. Osborn III Convention Center), and probably not coincidentally, was also for a period Jacksonville's primary red light district.\n\nLaVilla School of the Arts is a popular magnet middle school in Duval County that follows in the performance and art traditions of the Ritz/LaVilla area. Ritz Voices is a 100-member youth choir in the area.\n\nThe Clara White Mission is also located in LaVilla.\n\n"}
{"id": "6144418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6144418", "title": "Levon Kemalyan", "text": "Levon Kemalyan\n\nLevon John Kemalyan (24 February 1907 Fresno, California – 2 November 1976 Fresno, California) was a model railroading entrepreneur. He founded Kemtron Corporation, a manufacturer of model railway cars, locomotives, parts (especially for scratchbuilders), and accessories. In 1960 it was the world's largest maker of scale railroad kits, producing one million parts a year and selling them worldwide to enthusiasts as far away as India and Australia.\n\nKemalyan had ownership stakes in various companies; Fresno Photo-Engraving Company, U.S. Hobbies, Inc., and Kemtron Corporation.\n\nFresno Photo-Engraving Company was founded in 1903 by A. F. Kemalyan. Levon purchased the company with his brother-in-law in 1929. In 1935, he took over the photo-engraving company himself. Levon sold the firm December 26, 1962, to his brothers-in-law, Thomas N. Vartanian and Jerry Mootafian.\n\nKemtron Corporation was founded and owned by Kemalyan. :Kemalyan started Kemtron in Fresno in the early '50s (possibly even 1948 or 1949), and he provided layout space for the Fresno Model Railroad club in the early '50s. In 1960, the Kemtron plant was with 15 employees. One of Kemtron's product lines, photo engraved car kits, particularly the flats, often used zinc (or a very high zinc content brass) sheet, as opposed to brass. The 'blue' coating, was the 'photo resist' that was not cleaned off. Kemtron was initially a sideline of Fresno Photo Engraving, which explains why common photo engraving materials were often used. In the mid-1960s Kemtron also produced a line of slot cars and accessories.\n\nLawrence S. Kazoyan (b. November 7, 1931 – d. April 15, 2000, Palm Beach), a retired aerospace engineer, acquired Kemtron in 1970, and moved it from Fresno to Los Angeles. T. Fredrick Hill and Wayne Lyndon, owners of The Original Whistle Stop Inc., acquired Kemtron in 1978 and moved it to Sacramento. The Precision Scale Company, Inc. acquired Kemtron as a merger in 1986. Former Kemtron employee John Anderson later went on to found Associated Brass Products, Inc., maker of the Cal-Scale line.\n\n\nKemalyan was born and raised in Fresno, California. He also died in Fresno. His parents, Coshocir and Yonepseper A. Coshocir (\"née\" Chorbaji) were born in Armenia. Coshocir was an engraver. Levin had three sisters, Flora (Flora Maroot; 1898–1978), Alice (Alice Nevart Thomas; 1904–1990), and Naomi (born 1910). On March 6, 1941, Levin married Roselle Arax Bezazian (1909–2008) in Cook County, Illinois, a pianist who graduated from Oberlin Conservatory of Music. years ago (in 1961), Roselle Kemalyan was elected president of the Fresno Music Club. The club, this year (2018), is in its season. Levon and Roselle had two daughters: Constance R. (\"Connie\") (married to Gerald L. Wright) and Katharine (\"Kathy\") (married to Thomas Starbird).\n\n"}
{"id": "8731629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8731629", "title": "Life Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania", "text": "Life Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania\n\nLife Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania (LSGPA) is a biotechnology initiative and non-profit organization based in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania specializing in the advancement of life sciences through technology to improve the healthcare and enhanced economic opportunity of Pennsylvanians. The initiative began in 2001, funded with money from the state's settlement with the tobacco industry. Other life sciences greenhouses in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh also received seed money from the settlement. The LSGPA partners with a range of institutions, including local research universities, colleges, medical centers, economic development agencies and companies both small and large, to identify needs and opportunities. The organization then works to help transfer technologies, to develop new companies, to provide support for existing companies (particularly those seeking to expand or relocate), and to ensure that the infrastructure necessary to support a thriving life sciences industry keeps pace with development.\n\nCentral Pennsylvania has three large research universities which contribute to the initiative. Collectively, these three institutions attract more than $600 million in sponsored research funding annually. They are:\n\n"}
{"id": "618988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618988", "title": "List of car brands", "text": "List of car brands\n\nThis is an incomplete list of every brand (also known as make or marque) of car ever produced. Some are from manufacturing companies that also use their company name as a brand name, others are from subsidiary companies or divisions, or are products of badge engineering.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVenturi\nDeclercq\nDe la chapelle\nTracta\nMega\nHelem\nPescarolo\nDangel\nPachiaudi\nAuverland\nGrandin\nExagon\nLigier\nGordini\nHeuliez\nChapron\nUnic\nSaviem\nCournil\nCoste\nPGO\nHommell\nBellier\nAixam\nChâtenet\nLabbé\nACMAT\nOline\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3650823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3650823", "title": "List of oldest companies", "text": "List of oldest companies\n\nThis list of the oldest companies in the world includes brands and companies, excluding associations and educational, government, or religious organizations. To be listed, a brand or company name must remain operating, either in whole or in part, since inception.\n\nAccording to a report published by the Bank of Korea in 2008 that looked at 41 countries, there were 5,586 companies older than 200 years. Of these, 3,146 are in Japan, 837 in Germany, 222 in the Netherlands, and 196 in France. Of the companies with more than 100 years of history, 89.4 percent employ fewer than 300 people. A nationwide Japanese survey counted more than 21,000 companies older than 100 years as of September 30, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1343145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343145", "title": "Maurice Tempelsman", "text": "Maurice Tempelsman\n\nMaurice Tempelsman (born August 26, 1929) is a Belgian-American businessman and diamond merchant. He was the longtime companion of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, former First Lady of the United States.\n\nTempelsman was born on August 26, 1929 in Antwerp, Belgium, the son of Leon and Helene Tempelsman, both Orthodox Jews, in a Yiddish-speaking family in Antwerp’s Jewish community. In 1940, Tempelsman and his family emigrated to the United States to escape persecution by Nazi Germany during World War II. When he was 16, Tempelsman began working for his father, a diamond broker. He attended New York City’s public schools and New York University.\n\nIn 1950, Tempelsman created a new marketing niche by persuading the US government to stockpile African diamonds for industrial and military purposes, with him as middleman. In 1957, at the age of 27, he and his lawyer, Adlai Stevenson, traveled to Africa, where Tempelsman had begun forging ties with leaders. His contacts eventually ranged from South African anti-apartheid politician Oliver Tambo to Zaire's kleptocratic dictator, Mobutu Sese Seko and the influential Oppenheimer diamond family. Tempelsman is chairman of the board of directors of Lazare Kaplan International Inc. (LKI), the largest diamond company in the United States, noted for its \"ideal cut\" diamonds sold worldwide under the brand name, Lazare Diamonds. Tempelsman is one of fewer than 90 ″sightholders″ in the world, which means that 10 times a year he is permitted to buy diamonds directly from the powerful De Beers cartel in the City of London. Because DeBeers was a virtual monopoly, for many years it could not operate legally in the United States.\n\nTempelsman maintains relations with political and business leaders, in particular government leaders in Africa and Russia, and leading figures in the U.S. Democratic Party. His extensive political contacts and monetary contributions often provide him with access and prestige in those markets, as was the case during the presidency of Bill Clinton. From 1993 to 1997, Tempelsman visited the White House at least ten times, met privately with Hillary Clinton on two separate occasions, vacationed with the Clintons and the Kennedy family in Martha's Vineyard, and flew to Moscow and back with President Clinton on Air Force One.\n\nIn Southern Africa, Tempelsman has played a key role in negotiations between hostile governments and companies engaging in diamond exploration. He met with Mobutu Sese Seko, to assist the regime’s business dealings with De Beers. In the 1960s Tempelsman hired as his business agent the CIA station chief in Kinshasa, Larry Devlin, who helped put Mobutu in power and afterward served as his personal adviser. From March 3, 1977, Tempelsman briefly held the title of honorary consul general for Zaire, now known as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), at the DRC’s consular offices in New York City. In addition to the DRC, Tempelsman has played a key role in the diamond industries of Angola, Botswana, Namibia, and Sierra Leone.\n\nTempelsman served as chairman of the Corporate Council on Africa (CCA) from 1999 to 2002 and again from 2007 to 2008, after which he was named chairman emeritus. An example of his work with the CCA involved assisting government leaders with establishing the New Partnership for Africa's Development. Tempelsman was a board member of the Southern African Enterprise Development Fund, and past chairman and long-serving board member of the Africa-America Institute.\n\nTempelsman is a trustee of the Eurasia Foundation, and a director of the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs, the Center for National Policy, the Business Council for International Understanding, and the U.S.-Russia Business Council.\n\nHe is chairman of the International Advisory Council of the Harvard School of Public Health’s AIDS Initiative, and is an honorary trustee and an honorary member of the corporation of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. Tempelsman is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and was named a visitor to the Department of Classical Art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. A director of the Academy of American Poets, Tempelsman also serves as a trustee of the New York University Institute of Fine Arts, and on Lenox Hill Hospital’s Advisory Board. He has served on several Presidential Commissions including the President’s Commission for the Observance of Human Rights, the Citizen’s Advisory Board of Youth Opportunities and the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee, and was appointed to the New York Council on International Business.\n\nTempelsman has grown children by his wife Lilly Bucholz, who had also fled Antwerp with her family. They were married in 1949. Their daughter, Rena, is the widow of Robert Speisman, an executive vice president of Lazare Kaplan International Inc. who died on board American Airlines Flight 77, when the aircraft crashed into The Pentagon during the September 11 attacks.\n\nTempelsman and Bucholz formally separated in 1984. According to \"People\", Bucholz and Tempelsman never legally divorced.\n\nTempelsman was the longtime companion of Jacqueline Onassis. Maurice and Lilly Tempelsman were guests at the State Dinner given at Mount Vernon, Virginia in honor of the Ayub Khan of Pakistan in 1961. The two began their lengthy relationship in 1980, five years after the death of Jacqueline Onassis’ second husband Aristotle Onassis. In 1988, Tempelsman moved into Onassis’s Fifth Avenue penthouse apartment in New York City. During their relationship, he handled Onassis’s finances, quadrupling the $26 million that was secured from her late husband’s estate. The couple frequently took walks through Central Park and were photographed doing so in the days preceding her death from Non-Hodgkin lymphoma at age 64 on May 19, 1994. At Onassis’s funeral service, Tempelsman read Constantine P. Cavafy’s poem \"Ithaca\", one of her favorites, and concluded by saying: \"And now the journey is over, too short, alas, too short. It was filled with adventure and wisdom, laughter and love, gallantry and grace. So farewell, farewell.\" Tempelsman was one of two executors of the will that she had drawn up with her long-time attorney, Alexander D. Forger. She left him a \"Greek alabaster head of a woman\" and named Tempelsman to be a co‑chair of a charitable organization, the C & J Foundation. However, there was no residuary left to fund the foundation after estate taxes were paid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41362743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362743", "title": "Mustafa Jabbar", "text": "Mustafa Jabbar\n\nMustafa Jabbar (born 12 August 1949) is a Bangladeshi businessman and technology entrepreneur. He served as the technocrat minister of the Ministry of Post, Telecommunication and Information Technology in Bangladesh. He also served as the president of Bangladesh Association of Software and Information Services (BASIS). He is best known for the creation of Bijoy Bengali keyboard, which was developed in 1988, and it was most widely used Bengali input method until the release of Unicode based Avro Keyboard. He served as the president of Bangladesh Computer Samity, the national ICT organisation of Bangladesh for four consecutive periods.\n\nJabbar's ancestral home is in Krishnapur village, Khaliajuri Upazila in Netrokona district. He was born on Ashuganj Upazila in Brahmanbaria District to his parents Abdul Jabbar Talukdar and Rabeya Khatun. Jabbar passed his HSC examination from Dhaka College. In 1968, he enrolled in the Department of Bangla at the University of Dhaka and completed his BA in 1972 and MA in Journalism in 1974.\n\nJabbar started his career as a journalist in 1972 for \"Daily Ganakantha\" until it's shut down in 1975. In 1973, he was elected as the publicity secretary of the Dhaka Union of Journalists. He got involved in the businesses of travel agency, printing and publication. He had served as the general secretary of the Association of Travel Agents of Bangladesh (ATAB). Jabbar is a founder member of the Bangladesh Computer Samity (BCS) and its four-time president. He also anchored television shows on IT. Jabbar founded Ananda Computers, best known for developing the Bangla keyboard \"Bijoy\". He heads the Bangladesh Association of Software and Information Services— the trade body of IT entrepreneurs in Bangladesh. Jabbar started a venture involving computers and IT in 1987 and launched the Bijoy Bangla Keyboard and Software on 16 December 1988. His first novel named \"Nokshotrer Onger\" was published in 2005. His second novel named \"Suborne Shekorh\" was published in the fortnightly Tarokalok's Eid issue of 2006. He has developed Bijoy Library, a library management Software which is being used by libraries of Bangladesh including British Council. He has developed a software named \"Bijoy Shishu Shiksha\" for pre-school kids. He developed \"Prathomik Computer Shiksha\", based on textbooks published by National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB). He established schools in Bangladesh including computer-based Ananda Multimedia School and Bijoy Digital School. He is involved in writing textbooks on computer in Bangla and English. Jabbar sat on several government committees on ICT affairs, including the prime minister-formed Digital Bangladesh Taskforce. He is also a member of the Bangladesh Copyright Board. He was appointed as the Minister of Posts, Telecommunications and Information Technology of the Government of Bangladesh on 3 January 2018.\n\nJabbar was a member of Mujib Bahini (Bangladesh Liberation Force) in 1971 and participated in the Liberation War of Bangladesh. He was involved in the movement of freedom of the press and was actively associated with the Dhaka Union of Journalists. He was elected as the Organising Secretary of Dhaka Union of Journalists (DUJ).\n"}
{"id": "12798562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12798562", "title": "Olle Johan Eriksen", "text": "Olle Johan Eriksen\n\nOlle Johan Eriksen (12 August 1923 – 26 March 1999) was a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Haugesund.\n\nEriksen, who belonged to Rogaland, was never elected directly to the Norwegian Parliament but served as a deputy representative in the periods 1969–1973 and 1973–1977. During the first term he was brought in as a replacement representative for Egil Endresen, who became appointed to the Cabinet in 1970. Eriksen sat as a regular representative until March 1971, when the cabinet of which Endresen was a part was dissolved, allowing him to return to his seat in Parliament.\n\nOn the local level Eriksen held various positions in Haugesund municipal council between 1963 and 1987, as well as being a deputy member from 1991 to his death in 1999. He served as deputy mayor in 1966–1967 and 1975–1977, and mayor in 1970–1971, 1974–1975, 1978–1979 and 1979–1983. During most of this time he was also a member of Rogaland county council.\n\nOutside politics he was a local businessman. He was also active in tennis.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "39292021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39292021", "title": "Patrick Rooney Jr.", "text": "Patrick Rooney Jr.\n\nPatrick Rooney Jr. (born February 9, 1964) is a Republican member of the Florida House of Representatives, representing the 85th District, which includes northern Palm Beach County, since 2012, previously representing the 83rd District from 2010 to 2012.\n\nRooney was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Patrick Rooney Sr., into the wealthy and well-connected Rooney family, which is the majority owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers football team, and includes Dan Rooney, the former United States Ambassador to Ireland, who is Rooney's uncle, and Tom Rooney, a United States Congressman from Florida's 17th congressional district, who is Rooney's brother. He attended Clemson University, where he graduated with a degree in political science in 1986, and later Villanova University School of Law, where he got his law degree in 1989. Afterwards, Rooney attended Lehigh University, where he graduated with a Master of Business Administration in 1992, and then moved to the state of Florida later that year. Since living in Florida, Rooney has managed the Palm Beach Kennel Club, which is heavily involved in gambling and greyhound racing, and served on the South Florida Water Management District Board.\n\nIn 2010, incumbent State Representative Carl J. Domino could not seek another term due to term limits, instead opting to unsuccessfully run for the Florida State Senate. Rooney ran to replace him in the 83rd District, which spanned across Palm Beach County, and encountered Nancy Cardone and Francisco Rodriguez in the Republican primary, whom he defeated comfortably with 61% of the vote. In the general election, Rooney was opposed by Mark Marciano, the Democratic nominee and an optometrist. He campaigned on making Florida more business-friendly, specifically supporting efforts to lower the corporate income tax rate an to \"streamline the permitting and licensing processes.\" Ultimately, Rooney defeated Marciano in a landslide, winning over 63% of the vote.\n\nWhen the Florida House districts were redrawn in 2012, Rooney was redistricted into the 85th District, which included most the territory that he previously represented. He was unopposed in the primary, and in the general election, encountered Democratic nominee David Lutrin, a physical education teacher. Rooney was endorsed for re-election by the \"Palm Beach Post\", which suggested that \"he could bring a different tone to a Florida House that has been far too ideological\" due to his desire for consensus-building, bipartisan legislation. In the end, he was elected over Lutrin by a solid margin, with 58% of the vote. In 2014, Rooney was re-elected to his third term in the legislature unopposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "30935748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30935748", "title": "Profitability analysis", "text": "Profitability analysis\n\nIn cost accounting, profitability analysis is an analysis of the profitability of an organisation's output. Output of an organisation can be grouped into products, customers, locations, channels and/or transactions. \n\nIn order to perform a profitability analysis, all costs of an organisation have to be allocated to output units by using intermediate allocation steps and drivers. This process is called costing. When the costs have been allocated, they can be deducted from the revenues per output unit. The remainder shows the unit margin of a product, client, location, channel or transaction.\n\nAfter calculating the profit per unit, managers or decision makers can use the outcome to substantiate management decisions. Managers can decide to stop selling loss making products, to reduce costs for loss making customers or to increase sales in profitable locations.\n\nIn profitability analysis it is possible to perform a Pareto analysis by ranking output units from most profitable to least profitable. By doing so it is possible to create a so-called 'Whale Curve', graphically showing the potential margin of an organisation.\n"}
{"id": "54933670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54933670", "title": "Randa Ayoubi", "text": "Randa Ayoubi\n\nRanda S. Ayoubi (born 1962) is the founder and CEO of Rubicon Group Holding, an international animation and digital media production company headquartered in Amman, Jordan. She has been recognised both as one of the most influential women in Global TV and as a significant Arab woman in business.\n\nAyoubi was born in Jerusalem and raised in Amman. She holds a BSc in Computer Science an Executive MBA from Harvard Business School.\n\nAyoubi's inspiration reported came from a desire to amalgamate technology with education. She has spoken on wanting to bring Arabic media to a wider audience as part of an \"Arabic Renaissance\", stating that \"The challenge is to produce more programmes so in the future children in Europe, the US or Asia might grow up watching Arabic shows dubbed in English, rather than the other way round.\"\n\nIn 1994, Ayoubi founded Rubicon, which became Rubicon Group Holding in 2004. She struggled initially to find funding from investors, but nonetheless began her company by training bankers in multi-media skills. After ten years of raising funds, Ayoubi turned to focus on animation and edutainment. Rubicon is now best known for its involvement in Ben & Izzy and the . Ayoubi and Rubicon invested $1 billion in a theme park based on Tareq wa Shireen, one of the group's popular Arabic Cartoons.\n\nAyoubi is a founding member of the International Women Forum (IWF) Chapter in Jordan and serves on the board of Trustees at the King's Academy and Queen Rania Foundation for Education and Development. She has also served as on the board of trustees of the Royal Commission for Education Reform in Jordan, the Children Museum in Amman.\n\nShe has also held the position of Chairwoman of the Red Sea Institute of Cinematic Art in Aqaba and helped to found the Information Technology Association of Jordan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2202624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202624", "title": "Robert Carter III", "text": "Robert Carter III\n\nRobert \"Councillor\" Carter III (February 1727/28 – March 10, 1804) was a plantation owner from Virginia, United States, who for two decades sat on the Virginia Governor's Council. With the assistance of Baptist, Quaker and Swedenborgian faith, Carter began what became the largest release of slaves in North America prior to the American Civil War. By a deed of gift filed with Northumberland County on September 5, 1791, and related documents filed in Westmoreland County in subsequent years, Carter began the process of manumitting 500 slaves in his lifetime.\n\nCarter was the grandson of Virginia land baron Robert \"King\" Carter of Corotoman. In 1732, both his father and grandfather died, leaving the young boy in the care of his uncles George, Charles and Landon Carter, as well as his mother, who remarried in 1735 to John Lewis of Warner Hall in Gloucester County. \nAt age 9, young Robert was sent to the College of William and Mary, and in 1749 he came of age and received his inheritance. \nAfter crossing the Atlantic Ocean to Liverpool with Lawrence Washington, Carter travelled to London, where he and Philip Ludwell Lee started legal studies at the Inner Temple. \nCarter returned to Virginia in 1751 before being admitted to the bar. He took up residence at the Nomony Hall, and unsuccessfully campaigned at least twice for a seat in the House of Burgesses, although he did secure an appointment to the Westmoreland County Court in 1752.\n\nCarter left Virginia again in 1754, and married Frances Ann Tasker, daughter of former Maryland governor Benjamin Tasker. They ultimately had seventeen children, of which eight daughters and four sons reached adulthood. The successful marriage seemed to settle Carter, who began to pay attention to his vast landholdings, as well as politics. In 1758, using his in-laws' connections with the Board of Trade, Carter secured an appointment by King George II to the Virginia Governor's Council. When George III succeeded his grandfather in 1760, Carter was reappointed to the post, which served as the colony's appellate court as well as advised on executive matters. He purchased a house in Williamsburg from his cousin Robert Carter Nicholas and moved his growing family there in 1761. Carter, whom John Page once called \"illiterate\", began reading voraciously, as well as socializing with the city's intellectuals, including Governor Fauquier, George Wythe, William Small, John Blair and young Thomas Jefferson.\n\nAt first loyal to his King, Carter expressed support for the Crown during the period of popular rejoicing that accompanied news of George III's repeal of the Stamp Act. However, Parliament passed additional laws obnoxious to colonial interests, and by 1772 the new Governor Dunmore exacerbated tensions. That year, Carter moved his ailing family (having lost three young daughters to unknown illnesses within 11 months) back to Nomony Hall, announcing his retirement from public life. Carter never appeared in the Governor's Council minutes (other than as present) after it voted to allow slaveholders or local authorities to punish slaves without due process. Moreover, rather than educate his sons at the College of William and Mary, Carter hired Philip Fithian as tutor.\n\nCarter concentrated his efforts on trade, including ironworks, a textile factory and a flour mill, in addition to draining swamps around Nomony and diversifying crops at all his plantations. Although publicly neutral, Carter honored the continental boycott declared in 1774, and in 1775 joined Richard Corbin in expressing the council's concern about rumors of British marines being stationed at Williamsburg. Carter declined to give the loyalty assurances Dunmore required, and Dunmore dissolved the council in 1776. Carter gave a loyalty oath to the new Commonwealth of Virginia the following summer. Although Carter also declined political offices mentioned by Patriot friends, he began supplying provisions and bayonets to the American cause in the Revolution, so British ships raided his plantations near the Potomac river.\n\nAlthough his great-grandfather John Carter had freed slaves in his will (as well as provided homesteads and livestock for them), manumission became illegal in the year Carter's father and grandfather died, and did not again become legal until 1783. King Carter had greatly expanded slavery in Virginia, purchasing many from ships and owning more than a thousand slaves upon his death. King Carter gave his grandson his first slave (a girl) when he was just three months old. By the time he came of legal age in 1749, Robert Carter III owned of land and 100 slaves. Although Carter sold land and some slaves to pay his debts in 1758, he did not purchase slaves (unlike George Washington and other neighbors), and became known for his humane treatment for the region. Carter's plantations had roughly double the rate of slave population increase as others in the state. Carter was particularly moved by the example of Governor Fauquier, who in his will allowed his slaves to choose their masters. When Carter became a co-administrator of his father-in-law's estate, he (with the support of Daniel Dulany) delayed scheduling a sale of the slaves of Bel-Air plantation, since that would break up families, although his procrastination led to more than 18 years of litigation with his Tasker in-laws. Furthermore, Carter rarely whipped slaves, or allowed them to be whipped, let alone scarred them, although he whipped his children, particularly his eldest son Robert Bladen.\n\nCarter became known for his religious freethinking and support of dissenters even before the Revolution. He resigned from the Cople Parish Church vestry in 1776, and during the following year had a mystical experience while feverish from smallpox inoculation. This prompted further spiritual seeking, from composing his own prayer for God to \"have pity upon all Jews, Turks, Infidels & Hereticks\", to making trips to experience Quaker, Methodist, Presbyterian and Baptist preachers, as well as investigating Arminianism and perhaps Catholicism (although such was illegal in Virginia at the time). On September 6, 1778, the Rev. Lewis Lunsford baptised Carter in Totuskey Creek. Carter scandalized neighbors further by joining Morattico Baptist Church, a mixed congregation of white and black, free and slave. Carter knew he risked persecution, for Eleazar Clay, another wealthy man, had his life threatened after conversion, and during the three weeks preceding his own baptism Carter attended two different services that were attacked by armed mobs which included Revolutionary War veterans. Frances Ann Tasker Carter, who was declared an invalid in October 1779 after the birth of their 16th child, moved to Bladensburg, Maryland for health reasons, and eventually converted to the Baptist faith there a year before her death in 1787.\n\nMeanwhile, Carter became a prominent Baptist, serving on its General Association, financing the foundation of several churches in the Northern Neck, and corresponding with eminent ministers. The noted Methodist missionary and anti-slavery activist Francis Asbury also lodged at Nomony Hall at least twice after Carter's Baptist conversion.\n\nCarter believed human slavery immoral, and tried to pass his beliefs to his children. However, his eldest son, Robert Bladen (although an admirer of the poet Phyllis Wheatley), at least twice sold young female slaves against his father's wishes. He also gambled and incurred such large debts that when Robert Bladen fled to England in 1783, his father was compelled to liquidate not only lands, but also slaves and thus break up families. Moreover, in 1785 his son-in-law John Peck sold slaves given to his daughter Anne Tasker as a dowry before their northward move, so Carter gave his remaining daughters dowries which excluded human property. In February 1786, Carter decided to send his youngest sons George and John Tasker Carter to the new Baptist university in Rhode Island (what is now Brown University) and wrote to its minister president James Manning: \nI beg leave to appoint you their Foster Father intimating that my desire is that both my Said Sons shd. be active Characters in Life... The prevailing Notion now is to Continue the most abject State of Slavery in this Common-Wealth – On this Consideration only, I do not intend that these my two Sons shall return to this State till each of them arrive to the Age of 21 years.\n\nIn November 1788, Carter sent three daughters to live with Baptist friends in Baltimore, instructing their hosts \"Girls are not to act by a Maid, but by themselves,\" although he also sent a slave as barter for their room and board.\n\nDuring the 1780s, even the Baptist Church began to segregate its meetings, tumult rocked the General Committee after the Ketocton Association passed a motion that hereditary slavery was \"contrary to the word of God,\" and Morattico Baptist Church changed its rule to allow only free male members to vote. The grieving widower responded by drafting a charter for Yeocomico Church which required egalitarian voting, then left Morattico for the splinter congregation, signing its charter below the signatures of several slaves. Carter also unsuccessfully ran for a position in the Virginia Ratification Convention. He experienced several bouts of illness, cared for by his daughter Sarah Fairfax, whose proposed marriage to Richard Bland Lee Carter postponed, perhaps because of the suitor's pro-slavery ideas.\n\nCarter continued to host spiritual seekers, including a \"Mr. Moyce\" who in January 1788 introduced him to the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg, a Scandinavian aristocrat, scientist and mystic whose writings Carter began to request from business correspondents. Another critical point came in December 1789, when Carter \"died\", perhaps another religious experience tinged by illness. In 1790, Carter wrote British Baptist elder John Rippon, \"the toleration of slavery indicates very great depravity of mind.\" He also criticized ministers who offered universal redemption, but only \"partial Election before Creation\". Nonetheless, as the Baptist Church grew more pro-slavery, it grew more popular, claiming 20,000 members in Virginia in 1790; it had become Virginia's second largest sect a decade later.\n\nIn the years after the Revolutionary War, Virginia's legislature (having barred the slave trade in 1778) passed several laws sympathetic to freeing slaves, although it did not pass a law legalizing manumission until 1782, and throttled many petitions for wider emancipation. Numerous slaveholders in the Chesapeake Bay area freed their slaves, often in their wills (like Quaker John Pleasants) or deeds, and noted principles of equality as reason for their decisions. The number of free African Americans increased in the Upper South from less than one percent before the Revolution, to 10 percent by 1810. In Delaware, three-fourths of the slaves had been freed by 1810. In the decade after the act's passage, Virginians had freed 10,000 slaves, without visible social disruptions. The price of slaves reached a 20-year low as the percentage listed as \"black, tithable\" (i.e. slaves) fell below 40%, the lowest point in the century. However, Virginia's courts sidestepped issuing appellate decisions ratifying emancipation until 1799, and the methodology of within-life emancipation was not established.\n\nCarter hoped a gradual emancipation plan would pass Virginia's legislature. His neighbor Ferdinando Fairfax published one such plan in a Philadelphia-based journal, and Quaker Warner Mifflin presented petitions to Congress to do the same, but James Madison buried the proposals in committee. In early 1791, Carter refused to rent a plantation to Charles Mynn Thruston a Revolutionary veteran and Anglican minister with whose racial views he disagreed. His Baptist friend John Leland also left Virginia after a final anti-slavery sermon, which Carter copied in full into his journal.\n\nCarter nonetheless began a personal program of gradual manumission of slaves on his many estates. He announced his plan on August 1, 1791, and began a new legal process by recording a Deed of Gift in Northumberland County on September 5, 1791. Since the manumission law required a five shilling fee, and Carter had plantations and slaves in several Virginia counties, he corresponded with the Westmoreland County clerk (where he resided) and followed up by filing manumission papers at the Westmoreland County court sessions the following February, May, July and August, despite resistance of his son-in-law John Peck, various overseers and tenants. Carter designed the gradual program to reduce the opposition of slave-owning white neighbors, but failed. He refused tenants' requests to relocate slave breeding women to circumvent the Deed of Gift. That winter Carter was shunned, although he sought help from fellow slavery opponents including George Mason (who declined to help and cited his own age and infirmity). By the filings of February 27, 1793, Carter was ahead of his own planned schedule. Moreover, he refused to relocate freed blacks, and began offering them wages, as well as grants and tenancies, sometimes dispossessing obstreperous white tenants. Carter began investigating relocating to the District of Columbia, and leased Nomony plantation and its servants to his son J.T. on April 26, 1793 (expressly conditional to the Deed of Gift).\n\nThen, before the next Westmoreland court session, perhaps victimized by mob action such as tar-and-feathers, Carter and his daughters fled by ship with Negro George and Negro Betty to Baltimore (on May 8, 1793). He never returned, despite numerous entreaties. The meetinghouse used for the Yeocomico Baptist Church burned down six months after Carter left; Carter saved an unsigned complaining letter (which he believed from Thruston) that compared the Deed of Gift to fire destroying neighbors' houses.\n\nUpon reaching Baltimore, Carter received the news that his son Robert Bladen had died in London, nine days after being assaulted by a city sheriff trying to collect gambling debts. Nonetheless, Carter joined the congregation of James Jones Wilmer, an Episcopalian minister receptive to Swedenborg's views, bought a small house on Green Street, and began attending many religious meetings. Before leaving Nomony Hall, Carter locked his books and papers in the library, and gave the only key not to his son J.T., but to a wandering Baptist preacher named Benjamin Dawson. Dawson proved a corrupt debt collector, but diligent abolitionist, duly securing legal papers from Carter in Baltimore and filing them in Westmoreland and other counties to free slaves. Carter made provision for his relatives, allocating them land, but not the slaves who were the subject of the Deed of Gift. On July 26, 1797, upon learning from Dawson that attorney John Wickham doubted the legal validity of the power of attorney which allowed Dawson to file further manumission papers, Carter executed an agreement selling Dawson his remaining slaves for the nominal sum of a dollar, which Dawson duly filed with the Westmoreland clerk, despite a beating by Carter's son-in-law Spencer Ball.\n\nCarter spent the last decade of his life issuing manumission papers pursuant to his recorded program, writing letters in support of freed slaves whose papers had been stolen, and contemplating religious and political issues. Carter lent money to Baltimore to build its city hall, negotiated with the Bank of the United States, and donated money to Haitian refugees. Carter also thought he lived too long—mourning his daughter Anne's death in childbirth in 1798, and the deaths of Rev. Lunsford and his son-in-law John Maund in Caroline County, Virginia the following year. In 1803, the year before his death, Carter wrote his daughter Harriet L. Maund, \"My plans and advice have never been pleasing to the world.\"\n\nCitizen Robert Carter (as he preferred to be called) died in his sleep, unexpectedly, on March 10, 1804. His son and executor, George, brought the corpse back to Nomony and buried it in the garden. The same day that George announced his father's death, he bought slaves for Nomony to replace those his father had freed over his objection.\n\nOn April 3, 1805, Rev. Thruston, acting as judge of Frederick County, Virginia, refused to allow Dawson to record the scheduled deed for emancipation for that year, perhaps because of George Carter's objection. But on March 24, 1808, the Virginia Court of Appeals upheld Dawson's objection, declared the county court had erred, and authorized liberation of the slaves illegally held in bondage. Dawson continued to free sons and daughters born after 1791 to Carter's slaves, as did Thomas Buck and John Rust after 1826.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3139869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3139869", "title": "Sarah Franklin Bache", "text": "Sarah Franklin Bache\n\nSarah \"Sally\" Franklin Bache (September 11, 1743 – October 5, 1808) was the daughter of Benjamin Franklin and Deborah Read. She was a leader in relief work during the American Revolutionary War and frequently served as her father's political hostess, as her mother had done before her death in 1774.\n\nBorn Sarah Franklin and known as \"Sally\" throughout her life, she was the only surviving child of her parents, Deborah Read and Benjamin Franklin. Their son Francis Franklin died of smallpox at age four. Also in their household was her older half-brother William Franklin, her father's illegitimate son whom her parents raised from infancy. She was carefully educated by her father about political life.\n\nSarah married Richard Bache on October 29, 1767, although her family was worried about his financial position. The couple had eight children together:\n\n\nSarah Bache was an ardent Patriot during the American Revolutionary War. She did extensive relief work. After her father's return in 1775 from a diplomatic mission to France, she frequently acted as his political hostess, as her mother had died in 1774.\n\nShe raised money for the Continental Army and is known for her involvement in the Ladies Association of Philadelphia. In 1780, under her leadership, the group made 2,200 shirts for the soldiers in the Continental Army at the army's winter quarters at Valley Forge. The women often met to work together at The Cliffs, a country estate owned by Samuel R. Fisher on the Schuylkill River, two miles north of Philadelphia.\n\nBache loved music and reading, and was considered a skilled harpsichordist. When her father died in 1790, he left most of his estate to her. Among the items bequeathed to her was a small portrait of Louis XVI surrounded by diamonds, which she sold to finance a trip to London. In 1794, she and her family moved to a farm outside Philadelphia, to the north along the Delaware River.\n\nSarah Franklin Bache died in 1808 and is buried in Christ Church Burial Ground, Philadelphia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8821963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8821963", "title": "Sergey Fursenko", "text": "Sergey Fursenko\n\nSergey Aleksandrovich Fursenko () (born 1954 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) is a Russian businessman.\n\nHe is a brother of Andrei Fursenko.\n\nSince the early 1990s, Sergei Fursenko owns a dacha in Solovyovka, Priozersky District of the Leningrad region, which is located on the eastern shore of the Komsomolskoye lake on the Karelian Isthmus near St. Petersburg. His neighbours there are Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Yakunin, his brother Andrei Fursenko, Yuriy Kovalchuk, Viktor Myachin, Vladimir Smirnov and Nikolay Shamalov. On 10 November 1996, together they instituted the co-operative society Ozero (the Lake) which united their properties.\n\nSince July 2003 Sergey Fursenko is the director general of the JSC Lentransgaz, a subsidiary of Gazprom.\n\nSince 2005 he is the director general (later president) of the football club Zenit, Saint Petersburg.\n\nSince February 2010 til June 2012 he was the president of the Russian Football Union.\n\nIn April 2018, the United States imposed sanctions on him and 23 other Russian nationals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22528510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22528510", "title": "Staging (data)", "text": "Staging (data)\n\nA staging area, or landing zone, is an intermediate storage area used for data processing during the extract, transform and load (ETL) process. The data staging area sits between the data source(s) and the data target(s), which are often data warehouses, data marts, or other data repositories.\n\nData staging areas are often transient in nature, with their contents being erased prior to running an ETL process or immediately following successful completion of an ETL process. There are staging area architectures, however, which are designed to hold data for extended periods of time for archival or troubleshooting purposes.\n\nStaging areas can be implemented in the form of tables in relational databases, text-based flat files (or XML files) stored in file systems or proprietary formatted binary files stored in file systems. Staging area architectures range in complexity from a set of simple relational tables in a target database to self-contained database instances or file systems. Though the source systems and target systems supported by ETL processes are often relational databases, the staging areas that sit between data sources and targets need not also be relational databases.\n\nStaging areas can be designed to provide many benefits, but the primary motivations for their use are to increase efficiency of ETL processes, ensure data integrity and support data quality operations. The functions of the staging area include the following:\n\nOne of the primary functions performed by a staging area is consolidation of data from multiple source systems. In performing this function the staging area acts as a large \"bucket\" in which data from multiple source systems can be temporarily placed for further processing. It is common to tag data in the staging area with additional metadata indicating the source of origin and timestamps indicating when the data was placed in the staging area.\n\nAligning data includes standardization of reference data across multiple source systems and validation of relationships between records and data elements from different sources. Data alignment in the staging area is a function closely related to, and acting in support of, master data management capabilities.\n\nThe staging area and ETL processes it supports are often designed with a goal of minimizing contention within source systems. Copying required data from source systems to the staging area in one shot is often more efficient than retrieving individual records (or small sets of records) on a one-off basis. The former method takes advantage of technical efficiencies, such as data streaming technologies, reduced overhead through minimizing the need to break and re-establish connections to source systems and optimization of concurrency lock management on multi-user source systems. By copying the source data from the source systems and waiting to perform intensive processing and transformation in the staging area, the ETL process exercises a great degree of control over concurrency issues during processing.\n\nThe staging area can support hosting of data to be processed on independent schedules, and data that is meant to be directed to multiple targets. In some instances data might be pulled into the staging area at different times to be held and processed all at once. This situation might occur when enterprise processing is done across multiple time zones each night, for instance. In other cases data might be brought into the staging area to be processed at different times; or the staging area may be used to push data to multiple target systems. As an example, daily operational data might be pushed to an operational data store (ODS) while the same data may be sent in a monthly aggregated form to a data warehouse.\n\nThe staging area supports efficient change detection operations against target systems. This functionality is particularly useful when the source systems do not support reliable forms of change detection, such as system-enforced timestamping, change tracking or change data capture (CDC).\n\nData cleansing includes identification and removal (or update) of invalid data from the source systems. The ETL process utilizing the staging area can be used to implement business logic to identify and handle \"invalid\" data. Invalid data is often defined through a combination of business rules and technical limitations. Technical constraints may additionally be placed on staging area structures (such as table constraints in a relational database) to enforce data validity rules.\n\nPrecalculation of aggregates, complex calculations and application of complex business logic may be done in a staging area to support highly responsive service level agreements (SLAs) for summary reporting in target systems.\n\nData archiving can be performed in, or supported by, a staging area. In this scenario the staging area can be used to maintain historical records during the load process, or it can be used to push data into a target archive structure. Additionally data may be maintained within the staging area for extended periods of time to support technical troubleshooting of the ETL process...\n"}
{"id": "36176279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36176279", "title": "Stewart Tan Seng Teong", "text": "Stewart Tan Seng Teong\n\nStewart Tan Seng Teong is a Chinese motorsport executive, founder and general manager of Zhuhai International Circuit in Guangdong province.\n\nStewart Tan Seng Teong was born and raised in a big Chinese family in Penang, Malaysia. His family has a name in the Chinese medical field. Instead of taking over the family company, he engaged in other business activities. He worked in the Hong Kong share market during the late 80s, and has experience in managing shares and investments especially those in China. He was also the co-founder of the Chinese chocolate brand, Le Conte, later moving on from that business.\n\nIn 1992, he worked with the city government of Zhuhai to build the first motor racing circuit in China, which became Zhuhai International Circuit. He also took part in organising the first official street racing circuit in Zhuhai, on which events were held between 1993 and 1995 before the permanent circuit was built. In 1994, he and his group of organizers brought the BPR Global Endurance GT to Zhuhai.\n\nIn 1997, Tan partnered with Elf and Renault of France to bring “Formula Campus” (a junior formula) to China, established Formula Racing Development Ltd (FRD Motorsports). At the same time he set up the first racing school in China and organized China’s first formula racing series.\n\nHe was the Team Principal of the Volkswagen China (FAW) Factory Rally Team in 1999. The car used at that time was the Volkswagen Jetta.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2007, Tan brought FIA GT Championship to Zhuhai International Circuit. In 2006, he created the Pan Delta Super Racing Festival, a regular event that included the Circuit Hero race. Race drivers, race fans and the media in the Pearl River Delta region took part in this festival, and it attracted sponsors including Frestech, Red Bull, Coca-Cola, and Audi.\n\nIn 2007, Tan worked with China Motor Sport Association (CMSA) to create the China Superbike Championship, with two races in Zhuhai, one in Beijing and one in Shanghai. Over the 5 years, Tongyi Iced Tea and Yulin Pharmaceutical have sponsored that championship. In December of the same year, A1GP World Cup of Motorsport came to the track; in this race A1 Team China driver Cheng Congfu achieved a podium finish. Due to his series of successes in 2007, Stewart was awarded the “Man of the Year” by Autonews Magazine at the Golden Autosport Awards in 2008.\n\nTan is currently the General Manager of Zhuhai International Circuit Ltd. In 2010 and 2011, under his leadership, the circuit signed an agreement with Automobile Club de l’Ouest to bring the Intercontinental Le Mans Cup to Zhuhai. In 2011, the Zhuhai Municipal Government also hosted a China Zhuhai International Motor Sport Festival to help promote the event in the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "46260684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46260684", "title": "Straight-Through Quality", "text": "Straight-Through Quality\n\nStraight-Through Quality (STQ) are approaches and outputs of test automation that have quality and deliver business benefit. STQ takes its name from the business concept of straight-through processing (STP). Also acting as a tool and enabler for STP.\n\nTraditional techniques for testing and delivery have often required a great deal of manual support and intervention. These approaches are subject to human error, cost of delay and lack of reuse. These also have the negative side-effect of being unable to deliver 'fail-fast' approaches, which have proven popular with Agile practitioners. Previous traditional approaches have been typically expensive where whole silo'ed departments are created within commercial companies to deliver Quality and Deployment alone. Thus STQ as an approach hopes to resolve this problem.\n\nTangible examples of STQ approaches in the software industry are present and often known as continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD). These combined can ensure that software delivery is integrated, automatically tested and ready for automatic delivery at any time. Together CI/CD can enable STQ which can be used as Business output terminology for business users who do not understand the technical complexities of CI/CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37284984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37284984", "title": "Target culture", "text": "Target culture\n\nTarget culture is a pejorative term used to refer to the perceived negative effects of rigid adherence to performance targets by businesses and organisations. The term is primarily used to refer to this kind of behaviour within the provision of public services in the United Kingdom. Target culture often stems from not being able to accurately measure a broad social good like health, education or crime prevention: instead, specific target like increasing the number of people passing an examination or the number of arrests made by a police force is used.\n\nSchool league tables and other education statistics are often criticised as an example of target culture. The use of number of GCSE examinations passed at grade C as a measure of educational attainment has led schools to focus specifically on getting students on the boundary between grades C and D to improve enough to get a C.\n\nIn 2007, the Police Federation of England and Wales criticised the bureaucratisation of policing and argued that the use of targets increased the number of arrests made for petty offences.\n\nThe failure and investigation of Stafford Hospital has been blamed on target culture by some. The Guardian report in an interview with an anonymous senior NHS doctor that Stafford Hospital \"was a graphic illustration of the growing disconnect we see every day between a target-driven culture and the best interests of our patients\".\n\nIn 2008, the British Conservative Party politician Liam Fox, writing for the website ConservativeHome, lists Bristol Eye Centre as an example of the negative effects of a target culture: by trying to meet government targets to recruit more patients, they failed to make follow-up appointments with existing patients leading to some patients losing some or all of their eyesight.\n"}
{"id": "14895190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14895190", "title": "Timothy Mellon", "text": "Timothy Mellon\n\nTimothy Mellon (born 1941/1942) is an American businessman, and the chairman and majority owner of Pan Am Systems, a Portsmouth, New Hampshire-based transportation holding company.\n\nThe son of Paul Mellon and his first wife, Mary Conover Brown, Timothy Mellon holds a degree in city planning from Yale University. \n\nHe was the chief financier in the 1977 formation of Guilford Transportation Industries (GTI), a holding company named for his native Guilford, Connecticut.\n\nIn 1981, GTI purchased the Maine Central Railroad from U.S. Filter Corporation, adding the Boston & Maine and Delaware & Hudson railroads in 1983 and 1984, respectively, and in 1998 purchased the brand of bankrupt Pan American World Airways. The Pan Am name was subsequently succeeded by \"Pan Am Clipper Connection,\" operated by subsidiary Boston-Maine Airways, which ceased operations in 2008 due to lack of financial fitness.\n\nMellon stepped down as trustee of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in 2002 after 21 years on its board.\n\nMellon is reportedly a resident of Saratoga, Wyoming. In 2010 he donated $1.5 million to Arizona's defense fund to help cover the costs of legal challenges against Arizona SB 1070, the Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act, the broadest and strictest anti-illegal immigration measure in the United States at the time of its passage. It has received national and international attention and has spurred considerable controversy.\n\n"}
{"id": "19075768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19075768", "title": "Title IV", "text": "Title IV\n\nTitle IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) covers the administration of the United States federal student financial aid programs.\n\nAmerican colleges and universities are generally classified with regard to their inclusion under Title IV, such as under the U.S. Department of Education statistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27355354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27355354", "title": "Tjong A Fie", "text": "Tjong A Fie\n\nTjong A Fie, Majoor der Chinezen (1860–1921), or Tjong Yiauw Hian (spelled in Hakka Chinese dialect, ; Hakka Pha̍k-fa-sṳ: Chông Yeu Hian), birth name Zhang Hongnan (), was a Hakka Chinese businessman, banker and kapitan (Chinese major) who built a large plantation business in Sumatra, Indonesia. Tjong A Fie built his business that employed more than 10,000 labor workers. Because of his great success, he maintained a good relationship with the ruler of Deli, including the ninth Sultan of Deli, Sultan Ma'mun Al Rashid Perkasa Alamyah and Dutch authorities.\n\nIn 1911, Tjong A Fie was appointed as a Kapitan Cina (\"Majoor der Chineezen\") or major of Chinese community in Medan, replaced his late brother, Tjong Yong Hian. As a Chinese community top leader, he was well-thought-of and respected by people, because he was linked with economy and political systems of the city. His enterprises were invested in his plantations, palm oil and sugar factories, bank and railroad.\n\nTjong was born under the name Tjong Fung Nam (spelled in Hakka Chinese, ) from the Hakka lineage in Guangdong (formerly known as Canton) at year 1860. He was also known as Tjong Yiauw Hian, and later in his life finally known as Tjong A Fie (spelled in Hakka Chinese, ) .\nHe came from a poor family. With his brother, Tjong Yong Hian, Tjong left school and helped in running his father's shop. Although he only had a brief education, Tjong knew the ways of trading and made his family's business successful.\n\nTjong decided to travel to the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) to seek a better life. At 1875, Tjong A Fie came to Medan and decided to settle down. He was only 18 years old at that time. With little money, he decided to follow his brother, Tjong Yong Hian, who stayed in Medan for five years. At that time, his brother was already a notable leader in Medan.\n\nTjong was a prominent figure in the development of Medan, as seen through the construction of various buildings utilized by the citizens of Medan past and present. These buildings include Tjong A Fie's Mansion, located in Ahmad Yani Street near the Kesawan area, the Old Mosque or sometimes known as Crooked Alley Mosque, and the clock tower of Medan City Hall, which is located in the intersection between Radan Saleh Street and Kesawan.\n\nAt year 1911, Tjong was appointed as Kapitan Cina (Majoor der Chineezen) to lead the Tionghoa community in Medan, replacing his brother, Tjong Yong Hian. Tjong was a highly respected person; he was also a master of the economics and politics of Medan. His business kingdom covered banks, railroads, plantations, which included palm oil plants and sugar plants.\n\nWhile he carried out his duties as a Kapitan, Tjong succeeded in developing his individual business and the city of Medan. One of those developments included building the Kesawan Bank as a forerunner for financial security in Medan. The construction of educational facilities, hospitals, houses of worship and other public facilities has made Tjong as an incredibly influential figure in Medan. These developmental projects were supported by the close relationship of Tjong with the Sultanate of Deli, the ruler of the Land Deli (also known as Medan) at the time.\n\nBack in China, Tjong married a woman with the family name of Lee. Upon arriving in Medan, he married a lady named Chew from Penang and had three children, named Tjong Kong Liong, Tjong Jin Song and Tjong Kwei Jin. Mrs. Chew died a few years later for unknown reasons. There is no historical record of these three children after the death of Mrs. Chew. Tjong married again several years later to Lim Koei-Yap from Binjai. He had seven children from this marriage.\n\nSeveral of Tjong's grandchildren and great grandchildren had grown up together in Medan. After Tjong's demise and subsequent social instability in Indonesia, some of them moved overseas to countries including Malaysia, Singapore, Netherlands, USA, UK, Scotland and Belgium while a few stayed in Medan, Bali and Jakarta. They remain in close contact till today despite the distance.\n\nTjong's long-time residence is located at Kesawan Street, Medan. The mansion is an architectural mix of Malay, European, and Tionghoa styles and contains forty rooms, each lined with hand-painted floor tiles from Italy and the walls depicting life in China with great detail.\n\nThe Tjong A Fie Mansion consists of two floors with each floor having its own designation. The first floor consists of several important rooms, including the right side of the house reserved for ethnically Chinese guests only, while the left side of the house has a room reserved for the Sultan of Deli and his family or guests. The middle room on the ground floor is a reception room for guests—the room has a door ten meters tall and has a Chinese-style wooden door handle. On the back of the ground floor, there are spaces for ancestral worship, private rooms, and Tjong's family room. The top floor of the building is used as a ball room or meeting room; there is also an altar facing the meeting room used as a means of worship by Tjong and his family.\n\nThe mansion has two doors, the entrance of which is facing the Ahmad Yani Street in Kesawan and the exit of which is facing the Red Cross Street. The mansion spatially segregated men and women where the right part of building was intended for men and the left for women. This division was not limited to Tjong and his family, but also to guests and workers who settled in the mansion.\n\nConstruction of the mansion was completed circa 1900. In 2000, it was included in the list of cultural heritage landmarks protected by legislation in the city of Medan. The mansion has been open to public since 18 June 2009 to commemorate Tjong A Fie's 150th birthday and has been a popular tourist spot.\n"}
{"id": "19458980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458980", "title": "University Research Corridor", "text": "University Research Corridor\n\nThe University Research Corridor (URC) is an alliance between Michigan State University, the University of Michigan, and Wayne State University to transform, strengthen, and diversify the state of Michigan's economy. The three institutions of the URC together draw $1.878 billion in federal academic research dollars to Michigan, 94 percent of the total coming into the state.\n\nOver the past five years, URC universities have announced an average of one new invention every day, and collectively these discoveries have led to more than 500 license agreements for new technologies and systems. Detroit News columnist Dan Howes once wrote that the three universities together offer “the closest thing Michigan has to Silicon Valley—an intellectual powerhouse.”\n\nThe URC had 137,583 students enrolled in the fall of 2010. The students at the URC universities are drawn from throughout Michigan and around the world. Students from the state of Michigan accounted for 75% of total enrollment in the fall of 2009, while 15% came from elsewhere in the U.S. and the remaining 10% came from other countries.\n\nThe URC institutions are all based in the southeast/south-central area of the Michigan's lower peninsula. Wayne State University is located in the heart of the state's largest city — Detroit — in the Midtown Cultural Center. Michigan State University is located four miles east of the Michigan State Capitol, in East Lansing. The third university in the URC — the University of Michigan — is located 40 miles west of Detroit in Ann Arbor.\n\nThe corridor is served by the three major Interstate Highways in Southeastern Michigan—I-75, I-94, and I-96. Further enabling the close collaboration between these institutions, each school is under a two-hour drive of its URC peers.\n\nThe main airport of the region—among the top 20 largest airports in the world—is the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW). Both Wayne State University and The University of Michigan are roughly a half-hour drive from the Romulus-based airport. However, when traveling to East Lansing, the Capital Region International Airport is the most convenient—just a 20-minute commute to the MSU campus.\n\nA 2014 Economic Impact Report by Anderson Economic Group ranked the URC second in the Innovation Power Ranking when compared to seven other major university research clusters in six states, including well-known hubs such as North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park, California’s Innovation Hubs and Massachusetts’ Route 128 Corridor. The report also found that URC universities conferred 32,483 graduate and undergraduate degrees in 2012, more than any of the university innovation clusters the URC has benchmarked itself against since 2007. The URC also granted the highest number of medical degrees and second-highest number of high-demand degrees overall, saw its research and development spending rise to nearly $2.1 billion and continued to commercialize its research through patents and start-up companies.\n\nEconomic Stimulus\n\n"}
{"id": "26436813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26436813", "title": "WorldCell", "text": "WorldCell\n\nWorldCell is an American-based corporation that provides international mobile service to federal agencies, international businesses, and individual travelers.\n\nWorldCell was formed in 1996. The privately owned company was founded by Blake Swensrud as International Mobile Communications, Inc., and began primarily as a retail mobile phone service, renting international cell phones to travelers, businesses, and relief organizations.\n\nAfter September 11 and the advent of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, WorldCell shifted its focus to providing wireless management services to corporations, federal agencies, and the US military, transitioning its rental service to its TravelComm division. It later added satellite phones and service to its list of products, enabling its customers to communicate from remote locations.\n\nIn 2002, IMC Inc launched the Viking Wireless GSM network through its subsidiary IMC Ísland ehf, officially categorizing the company as a carrier (as opposed to a \"reseller\"). In 2005 the company was re-branded as WorldCell. Shortly after, Worldcell signed a five-year purchasing contract with the Army's Information Technology, E-Commerce, and Commercial Contracting Center (ITEC4)- West Two years later, in 2007, WorldCell signed several agreements with international mobile technology companies, such as Aicent, Inc and Accuris Networks.\n\nWorldCell currently administers managed wireless services and secure data plans to the federal government, including the military, and commercial organizations, using agreements with overseas carriers such as Vodafone, O2, KPN, and Docomo.\n\nWorldCell's headquarters are in Rockville, Maryland, a few miles outside of Washington, D.C. In addition to its corporate headquarters, WorldCell has offices in Reykjavík, Iceland and Tokyo, Japan.\n\nWorldCell is the parent company of three additional entities: TravelComm, IMC Ísland, and Alterna.\n\nTravelComm is a retail service that rents cell phones to United States customers traveling abroad. TravelComm’s services are used by international business travelers, vacationers, and college students studying abroad. TravelComm has recently added US Domestic service to its list of products.\n\nIMC Ísland is a licensed Iceland-based mobile operator. IMC uses the Viking Wireless GSM network and has access to multiple international GSM networks. WorldCell is able to offer international wireless service through IMC’s networks, as well as through roaming agreements and SIM cards.\n\nIMC Ísland launched Alterna Telecom, a new company that will provide mobile service to local users in Iceland, in late 2009. IMC and Alterna also announced recently that they will be cooperating with Síminn, a mobile provider with the largest 3G network in Iceland. Alterna began testing its service with a group of beta customers in 2009 and will transition these trial subscriptions to paid plans in 2010.\n\n"}
