{"id": "5315468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5315468", "title": "Abdul Basith (volleyball)", "text": "Abdul Basith (volleyball)\n\nAbdul Basith was a captain of the India men's national volleyball team. He was a member of the team that won the bronze medal in the 1986 Seoul Asian games, beating Japan. \n\nBorn in Hyderabad, he was known for his humbleness, gentlemanly conduct, fair play, and tall frame. Basith was awarded the Arjuna Award in 1989. .\n\nAbdul Basith Siddiqui's family live in Hyderabad India.\n"}
{"id": "10928027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10928027", "title": "Adire (textile art)", "text": "Adire (textile art)\n\nAdire (Yoruba: tie and dye) textile is the indigo-dyed cloth made in southwestern Nigeria by Yoruba women, using a variety of resist-dyeing techniques.\n\nThe earliest pieces of this type were probably simple tied designs on cotton cloth handspun and woven locally (rather like those still produced in Mali), but in the early decades of the 20th century new access to large quantities of imported shirting material via the spread of European textile merchants in Abeokuta and other Yoruba towns caused a boom in these women's entrepreneurial and artistic efforts, making adire a major local craft in Abeokuta and Ibadan, attracting buyers from all over West Africa. Abeokuta is considered to be the capital of adire making in Nigeria, however some suggest that the large cities of Ibadan and Osogbo (Yorubaland) are more important in Adire making because Adire dyeing began in Abeokuta when Egba women from Ibadan returned with this knowledge. The cloth's basic shape became that of two pieces of shirting material stitched together to create a women's wrapper cloth. New techniques of resist dyeing developed.\n\nThe tradition of indigo dyeing goes back centuries in West Africa. The earliest known example is a cap from the Dogon kingdom in Mali dating to the 11th century, dyed in the \"oniko\" style.\n\nHowever, by the end of the 1930s the spread of synthetic indigo and caustic soda and an influx of new less skilled entrants caused quality problems and a still-present collapse in demand. Though the more complex and beautiful starch resist designs continued to be produced until the early 1970s, and despite a revival prompted largely by the interest of US Peace Corps workers in the 1960s, never regained their earlier popularity. In the present day, simplified stenciled designs and some better quality oniko and alabere designs are still produced, but local taste favours \"kampala\" (multi-coloured wax resist cloth, sometimes also known as adire by a few people). However, there has been a recent revival of the Adire art by Nigerian artisans such as Nike Davies-Okundaye, who has inspired a younger generation of designers like Amaka Osakwe (and her label Maki-Oh) and Duro Olowu. Political figures and celebrities such as Michelle Obama and Lupita Nyong'o have worn adire-inspired clothes recently.\n\nToday, there are three primary resist techniques used in Nigeria:\nMost of the designs are named, with popular ones including the jubilee pattern, (first produced for the silver jubilee of George V and Queen Mary in 1935), Olokun (\"goddess of the sea\"), Sunbebe (\"lifting up of the beads\") and Ibadandun (\"Ibadan is sweet\").\n\nNigeria is also known for its two-tone indigo resist designs, created by repeat dyeing of cloth painted with cassava root paste to create a deep blue; the paste is then washed out and the cloth dyed a final time. Quality cloth is dyed 25 or more times to create a deep blue-black color before the paste is washed out. Additional forms of indigo resist-dyeing exist in other parts of West Africa; for example, the Bamana of Mali use mud resist, while Senegalese dyers use rice paste rather than cassava root. And the Ndop of Cameroon use both stitch resist and wax resist.\n\n"}
{"id": "18349321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18349321", "title": "Amur-Ussuri Cossacks", "text": "Amur-Ussuri Cossacks\n\nThe Amur-Ussuri Cossacks are the combined peoples of the Amur Cossack Host and the Ussuri Cossack Host. Early in their history they intermarried with or incorporated into their units many Tungusic peoples. This was a key element in their considering themselves a separate people from other Cossacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "39811984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39811984", "title": "Bataidari system", "text": "Bataidari system\n\nBataidari system is a sharecropping, an agricultural practice where a landowner lends his land to another who spends money and labour and the produce is shared by the owner and the tenant. it is prevalent in the state of Bihar in India where nearly 35% of cultivable land is under this system.\n\nThe system was prevalent during British Raj in many parts of India, including fertile plains of Punjab, in other places the \"jotedar\" system was prevalent. Since more of the tenants were poor labourer they had to borrow money from money lenders for cultivation, this perpetuated the poverty cycle. Though land reforms were implement across Bihar after independence through the Bataidari Act, but deemed exploitative against labourer and lead to violence, especially caste violence between labour communities and landowners. In the past, landforms have been demanded and even made a political plank in state assembly elections, especially by Left parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "7320025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7320025", "title": "Belarusians in Russia", "text": "Belarusians in Russia\n\nBelarusians are a major ethnic group in Russia. In the census of 2002, 807,970 Russian citizens confirmed their Belarusian ethnicity. Major Belarusian groups live in the regions of Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kaliningrad, Karelia. Most Belarusians in Russia are migrants from modern Belarus or their descendants, while a minor part of Belarusians in Russia are indigenous.\n\nA minor part of Belarusians in Russia are original inhabitants of the Russian-Belarusian border regions. In ancient times the regions of Smolensk and Pskov were inhabited by the East Slavic tribe of Krivichi that later became major base of the Russian and Belarusian nations. The Russian town of Smolensk was several times conquered by Polatsk dukes and belonged to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania between 1408 and 1514.\n\nAccording to the census of the Russian Empire, some Belarusians lived in the territories of modern Smolensk Oblast, Bryansk Oblast. A small number of Belarusians used to live in the modern Kaluga Oblast, Pskov Oblast, Orel Oblast.\n\nThe Korenization policies of the 1920s encouraged Belarusians of Russia to promote and develop Belarusian cultural life and education. A system of Belarusian schools was established in Western Russia. In the 1930s, the Korenization was reversed and its proponents were repressed.\n\nDuring the Polonization of the Grand Duchy in the 16th and 17th centuries, a large number of Orthodox Ruthenians, led by Princes Mstislavsky, Belsky and Galitzine, escaped the repressions to Moscow. In documents of that time they are also called \"Litvins\" or \"White Ruthenians\".\n\nOne of the compact settlements of Litvins in Moscow was the Meschanskaya Sloboda. Its inhabitants engaged in financial operations, trade, and medicine. Meschanskaya Sloboda had a degree of self-governance and a collegiate church.\n\nIn the times of Imperial Russia and the USSR, Moscow as the scientific and economic centre of the country attracted many specialists from different parts of the empire including Belarus. So, the minister of foreign affairs of the USSR during the most tensed period of the Cold War was the Belarusian Andrei Gromyko.\n\nToday, Moscow also attracts huge numbers of specialists for constant and temporary work. Every year hundreds of students from Belarus join Moscow universities.\n\nAfter the Partition of Poland, Belarusians started migrating to Russia including the imperial capital, St. Petersburg. Especially many peasants from northern and eastern regions of Belarus migrated to St. Petersburg.\n\nAccording to statistics, from 1869 to 1910 the number of Belarusians in St. Petersburg grew 23 times and reached 70,000. By the end of that period Belarusians were the biggest ethnic minority in the city. During the First World War for some period up to one million Belarusians lived in the city because of inflow of refugees.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, several Belarusian organisations were created in St. Petersburg uniting intellectuals and students. In 1868 the enlightenment organisation \"Kryvitski vazok\" was founded. In the 1880s the organisation of leftist Belarusian intellectuals \"Homan\" was created. Along with Wilno, St. Petersburg has been the centre of Belarusian cultural an intellectual life in the late 19th century. A Belarusian publishing house existed in St. Petersburg in 1906-1912. Belarusian scientists at the universities of St. Petersburg made important ethnographic researches about Belarus.\n\nThe activity of organisations of Belarusian diaspora continued after the October Revolution until it was violently stopped by Stalinist repressions.\n\nDuring the Perestroika, several new Belarusian diaspora organisations appeared in Leningrad. Today St. Petersburg, though less than Moscow, is also attractive for workers and students from Belarus.\n\nSiberia was goal for mass migrations from Belarus in the 19th century. First, Russians deported participants of January November uprisings. During the period 1885–1914, 550 thousand Belarusians settled to Siberia. Entire Belarusian villages existed there.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the stream of migrants from Belarus to Siberia did not stop. The Soviets tried to organise their flow and sanctioned several researches on the history and traditions of Siberian Belarusian. In 1929 the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus organised a special ethnographic expedition to Siberia. In the census of 1926, 371,840 Siberians stated their Belarusian descent.\n\nKorenization allowed the Belarusian minority in RSFSR to develop its culture and language. Belarusian schools were created in Siberia.\n\nIn the 1930s and early 1940s many Russian, Ukrainian, and Belarusian intellectuals and peasants were deported to Siberia, including those from West Belarus when annexed to the BSSR.\n\nIn the late 1980s the Belarusian national revival movement also affected Siberian Belarusians. Jan Cherski Society for Belarusian Culture was established in Irkutsk and is now the largest and most active organisation of the Belarusian diaspora in Russia.\n\nIn the 18th century Belarusians lived in several gubernyas of European Russia. Belarusian settlements existed in Kursk, Penza gubernyas and in the Ural.\n\nAfter cancellation of serfdom in Russia in the 19th century, mass migrations of Belarusian peasants to Russia started. Main goals were Volga region, Caucasus, Central Asia and Siberia.\n\nFrom the late 1940s to early 1960s many Belarusians settled in Karelia, Arkhangelsk Oblast, the Komi Republic, and Kaliningrad Oblast.\n\nBelarusian national revival in RSFSR in early Soviet times included creation of Belarusian local autonomies - national Rural Soviets (сельсоветы) inside raions. In 1924–1926, 71 Belarusian rural soviets were created in Siberia. In 1926 there were 26 Belarusian rural soviets in the Russian Far East. In the Ural in 1928 there were eleven. Later, several Belarusian raiony, administrative units of a higher level, were created. In the early 1930s there was a Belarusian national raion of Taboryn as part of the Ural oblast. There was a discussion about the creation of a Belarusian national unit inside the Omsk oblast.\n\nIn the mid-1930s all Belarusian autonomies inside the RSFSR were liquidated.\n\nNumber of Belarusians in Russia\n\nBecause of cultural closeness of Belarusians to Russians and weakly expressed national identity, Belarusians are more than other ethnic minorities exposed to assimilation in Russia. Despite mass inflow of migrants from Belarus during last centuries, children of immigrants rarely identify themselves as Belarusians.\n\nCurrently, more and more Belarusian organisations are created in different regions of Russia.\n\nIn 2003 a Belarusian cultural society \"Belorusy Yugry\" was registered in Surgut.\n\nThe largest and strongest Belarusian diaspora organisation in Russia is the Jan Čerski Society for Belarusian Culture in Irkutsk. The organisation unites descendants of Belarusian settlers in Siberia, and has several branches and issues a newspaper.\n\nIn Moscow there is the Frantsishak Skaryna Society for Belarusian Culture and an informal union of Belarusian students. In Bashkortostan there is a Belarusian national cultural centre \"Siabry\" founded in 1996. In Kaliningrad Belarusians are united in the culture society \"Karalaviec\".\n\nIn the last decade Belarusian community of Russia is of separate opinion on the current presidency of Alexander Lukashenko. Some organisations support the democratic opposition. Other, more recently founded organisations as the Federal National Cultural Autonomy of Belarusians in Russia are supported by the embassy of Belarus, and have a more positive opinion on the policies of the government.\n\nBesides Russian citizens of Belarusian descent, there are about 400 thousands Belarusians currently working in Russia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38493179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38493179", "title": "Benggoi language", "text": "Benggoi language\n\nBenggoi is a language—or perhaps three languages—of Seram, Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "42095385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42095385", "title": "Beti people", "text": "Beti people\n\nThe Beti people are a Central African ethnic group primarily found in central Cameroon. They are also found in Equatorial Guinea and northern Gabon. They are closely related to the Bulu people, the Fang people and the Yaunde people, who are all sometimes grouped as Beti-Pahuin peoples.\n\nThe Beti are found in northern regions of their joint demographic distributions, the Fang in the southern regions, and others in between. Estimates of the total Beti population vary, with many sources placing them at over three million spread from the Atlantic coastal regions near Equatorial Guinea into the hilly, equatorial forest covered highlands of central Africa reaching into the Congo.\n\nThe Beti people, like the other Beti-Pahuin peoples speak a dialect of the Fang language, also known as Pahuin or Pangwe. Sometimes called as the Beti language, it is a Southern Bantu language belonging to the Niger-Congo family of languages.\n\nThe Beti language is sub-classified as Bulu language, Eton language, Ewondo language and Fang language because though different, they are mutually intelligible to respective speakers. While the languages are similar, there are linguistic differences suggesting a complex interaction between these peoples.\n\nThe Beti people are Bantu people who once lived in northern parts of Central Africa, with a complex, undocumented and debated prehistory. They likely moved into equatorial Africa in the seventh or eighth century, then further southwest in central Cameroon between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries, likely after waves of wars and slave raids from the Fulani people. They were also a targeted source for slaves and ivory by the Hausa people.\n\nTheir initial migration in the 17th century was from highlands and forested regions east of the Sanaga River towards south and west. They continued to face jihads and violence from the north by the Fulani people (also called Fulbe or Fula people), abandoned their settlements and migrated further into southern parts of central Cameroon till the 19th century when European traders and colonial forces intervened as they sought trade and markets. The first European power to create a colony that partly included the lands of the Beti people was the German Kamerun colony in 1884. After the first world war, the German colony was taken over, divided by the French and the British colonial powers.\n\nIn 1856, Paul Du Chaillu met the Beti people. He published a memoir about them in 1863. The memoir mentions his arrival on the Atlantic coast and being told by local people about the cannibalistic Beti people. When Du Chaillu met the Beti people, he saw skulls and bones near their settlement. He immediately took these for cannibalism and wrote about it in his memoir. Later visitors such as the ethnographer Mary Kingsley in 1893–1895, who did not speak the Beti language or live with the local people, saw the same sighting, and titled her book \"A Victorian Woman Explorer among the Man-eaters\".\n\nIn 1912, a Christian missionary named Father Trilles visited them, learned the Beti language, and wrote a more objective ethnographic account of the Beti people. More accounts about the Beti people began appearing after World War I, but were often stereotypical and most emphasized about their alleged practice of containing bone relics in reliquary boxes. These alleged practices were used to justify violence against them and the enslavement of Beti and Fang peoples. When their villages were raided, thousands of their wooden idols and villages were burnt by the slave raiders. The French and the British colonial officials suppressed these practices.\nAs scholarship about the Beti people grew in the 1900s, according to John Shoup, the collected evidence suggests that the early rumors and allegations of cannibalism were wrong. The Beti people were not cannibalistic, the skulls and bones in the open and in the reliquary boxes were actually of their ancestors. The practice of collecting the bones were a way of remembrance and religious reverence for their dead.\n\nThe initial reports of alleged cannibalism attracted widespread attention, supported the oft-stereotyped and presumed African barbarianism, then became a part of fiction and popular literature at the turn of the 20th century. Among the most famous was the novel \"Tarzan of the Apes\" by Edgar Rice Burroughs, which created the popular Tarzan character. Burroughs set his novel near the village of Mbonga, among the Beti people and their closely related ethnic group called the Fang people.\n\nThe initial Tarzan story, where infant John is discovered by apes and raised by a female ape, built on the colonial era stereotype of cannibalistic Africans in the equatorial forests. The story, states Shoup, provided a contrast of \"pure uncorrupted\" noble Tarzan in the midst of a barbaric cannibalistic society. The Tarzan syndicate became a global sensation, was widely followed, created some 89 movies in the 100 years that followed, and launched numerous comic strips and television series, many of which providing a distorted stereotyped view about the people from the African equatorial forest.\n\nThe traditional occupation of the Beti people is farming, particularly of yams, cassava, corn and plantains as staples. Since colonial times, many have adopted cash crops such as peanuts and cacao. They are skilled artists and craftsmen, particularly in iron and wood handicrafts. However, these craftsmanship are nearly extinct because of urbanization and modern trade flows.\n\nThe traditional Beti society has been organized at the village level, typically with its borders fenced and fortified with watch towers to protect the inhabitants from wild life of the rain forests and intruders. Outside the village compounds were carefully concealed traps, as another line of defense against slave raiders. The villages have tended to be politically independent of each other, centered on a lineage called \"Ayon\" or \"Mvog\". They are a patrilineal people, and disputes are typically settled by a due process led by a headman. The Beti revere their ancestors, and known among other things for their artistically produced reliquary boxes called the \"Byeri\". They store the bones of their ancestors in these reliquary boxes, which were used during rites of passage, with their sophisticated masks called \"So\" (animal-faced) and \"Ngil\" (human-faced).\n\nThe Beti people practise double exogamy, that is typically married away from both father's and mother's lineages. Another notable aspect of their society has been the concept of \"Mebala\", a type of potlatch, where wealthy families ceremoniously gather and give away their wealth to the poorer families.\n\n"}
{"id": "103186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103186", "title": "Coin of account", "text": "Coin of account\n\nA coin of account is a unit of money that does not exist as an actual coin (that is, a metal disk) but is used in figuring prices or other amounts of money.\n\nThe \"mill\" (or sometimes, \"mil\") is a coin of account in the United States. It is equal to one-tenth of a penny, and so to one-thousandth of a dollar (= $0.001), whence the name, which means \"thousandth.\" There was never such a coin minted by the U.S. Federal government, though some states minted these coins well into the mid-1900s. Coins of account are used in accounting and for figuring taxes, usually either property taxes or sales taxes.\n\nFrom 1816 to the 1980s the British Guinea was no longer used a coin but prices for luxury items and professional services were often quoted in guineas, on the understanding that a guinea was equal to 21 shillings.\n"}
{"id": "6934166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6934166", "title": "Corruption in the Suvarnabhumi Airport project", "text": "Corruption in the Suvarnabhumi Airport project\n\nAllegations of corruption during the development of Suvarnabhumi Airport, the newest international airport serving Bangkok, Thailand, have been made since the project's inception. These allegations started in the 1970s, when land for the airport was purchased during the dictatorship of Thanom Kittikachorn, and extended to the government of Thaksin Shinawatra, during which most of the construction occurred. To date, no Thai government, police, or auditor-general investigation has proved any corruption in the project.\n\n\"The Nation\", a Thai English-language daily, published several reports alleging corruption in the purchase of x-ray baggage scanning devices for the airport. The resulting scandal delayed the opening of the airport by a year and allowed the opposition Democrat Party to initiate a 20-hour no-confidence censure debate that forced Thaksin to remove close supporter Suriya Jungrungreangkit from his position of Transport Minister. The Royal Thai Army swept into power in a military coup in 2006, using the allegedly shoddy construction of the airport as one of the justifications for its coup. The junta initiated several investigations into the airport. The investigative panels found that damage to the airport was \"minute\" and \"common.\" The cost of fixing the damage was estimated at less than 1% of the total airport cost. The junta was accused of delaying airport repairs and intensifying the airport's problems in order to pin further blame on the deposed government.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Nation\" admitted that its reports of corruption were incorrect, and retracted their stories.\n\nCharges of corruption were levelled against Thai governments since the airport project's inception in the 1970s. \"All the recent previous governments before Thaksin took part in taking something from the project,\" noted Chaiwat Sinsuwong, a member of the Council of Engineers.\n\nMr Weera Somkuamkit, of the People's Network on Corruption has noted that \"Someone got a big payoff just by laying down the sand. There's corruption in every airport project such as the car park, bidding on duty-free shops, cooling system for the buildings and power generating system.\" Weera Somkuamkit has not yet made public any evidence supporting his claims. Based on this and other allegations, the opposition parties during the Thaksin government initiated a vote of no confidence against the Thaksin-government's transport minister. The censure motion was not successful.\n\nThe airport contains 2 5-storey car park buildings with a combined capacity of 5,000 cars.\n\nTwo videos were released in which car park contractor Latthapol Kesakotin, in one video, claimed that he paid US$250 million to Yaowaret Shinawatra (the Prime Minister's sister) to gain a contract to build and operate the airport car park, and another video in which he claimed he didn't pay anything to Yaowaret. He later publicly denied that he paid anything to Yaowaret.\n\nTwenty-six CTX 9000 DSi explosive detection x-ray baggage scanning devices were purchased from GE Invision with a total contract value of US$65 million. In response to concerns from the International Air Transport Association (IATA) that the 26 devices would not be sufficient, the equipment specifications were revised and another 20 devices were acquired. The new specifications also required modification of several other elements of the airport. The CTX 9000 model was selected by the airport primary contractor's design consultant, Cage Inc. The choice was also endorsed by New Bangkok International Airport's independent adviser, Quatrotec Inc.\n\n\"The Nation\" published reports claiming corruption in the purchase of the CTX bomb scanners. Abhisit Vejjajiva, leader of the opposition Democrat Party, initiated an unsuccessful censure debate against Transport Minister Suriya Jungrungreangkit. The opposition alleged that in November 2004, Suriya had known that Invision was under investigation by the US Department of Justice, and therefore would not be able to provide the bomb scanners on schedule, and despite this knowledge, had approved of payments for the bomb scanners to the airport contractor (the ITO joint venture) and bomb-scanner sub-contractor, Patriot Business Consultants. The opposition claimed that one billion baht (US$25 million) could have been saved if the bomb scanners were purchased directly from GE InVision rather than going through the two local contractors. The opposition did not win the censure motion, and subsequent investigations cleared Suriya Jungrungreangkit of any wrongdoing. The scandal delayed the opening of Suvarnabhumi Airport by over a year.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Nation\" admitted that its reports of corruption were incorrect.\n\nIn October 2005, the government of Thaksin Shinawatra floated a proposal to combine several districts around Suvarnabhumi Airport into a new province, to be managed as a special administrative zone. These districts would include Samut Prakan's Bang Sao Thong sub-district and Bang Phli district as well as Lat Krabang and Prawet districts of Bangkok. The new province would allow speedier large scale investments in infrastructure by enabling the government to bypass administrative and budgetary constraints for the estimated THB500 billion (US$12.5 billion) in public and private sector. The new zone, to be known as \"Nakhon Suvarnabhumi\" (Suvarnabhumi City) would cover 521 square kilometres (roughly the size of Singapore) with a population of about 462,000 people. In 2006 the cabinet approved in principle a draft Nakhon Suvarnabhumi Bill prepared by the interior ministry. The Council of State will then review it, followed by a series of public hearings, before the bill is submitted to the House of Representatives.\nThere were anonymous allegations that the proposed establishment of the new zone would cause property values to increase, and that government politicians had bought large plots of land in speculation. However, the opening of the airport caused property prices to fall 40-50% in an estimated 4,000 rai of land surrounding the airport from 2005 to 2006 due to increased noise levels. An anonymous source had earlier informed \"The Nation\" newspaper that \"My friend told me that a politician's wife had bought 4,000 rai from a developer...The transaction was wrapped up in the first quarter of this year <nowiki>[2006]</nowiki>\". The source also noted that prominent developers like Land & Houses, Quality Houses, Property Perfect, Supalai, LPN Develop-ment, SC Asset Corp, as well as the Jungrungreangkit and Mahagitsiri families owned large tranches in the proposed zone. Several developers denied that their ownership of land was related in any way to the proposal and noted that the properties were bought years before.\n\nThe plans for Suvarnabhumi City were largely scrapped by post-coup Finance Minister Pridiyathorn Devakula.\n\nThe Royal Thai Army overthrew the Thaksin government in September 2006, using the allegedly shoddy construction of the airport as one of the justifications for its coup.\n\nAfter the coup, numerous public accusations were made that construction standards of the airport were sub-standard and that cracks were appearing in the runway. Junta leader Saprang Kalayanamitr forced AOT President Chotisak Asapaviriya to resign and also dismissed the directors of Suvarnabhumi Airport and AOT Commercial Operations.\n\nA junta-appointed panel of engineers assigned to inspect the airport noted that damage to the airport was \"minute,\" and \"common.\" This was contrary to public accusations that the airport was seriously damaged after only four months of operation. A spokesman for British Airways also said that \"everything is normal,\" and that \"We haven't heard any complaints from the staff.\" A two-week investigation led by Tortrakul Yomnak, a chief engineer for AOT, found that the runway was safe, and that cracks could be repaired in as little as a few hours. At the beginning of the investigation, Tortrakul had warned that the airport might need to be closed for three years.\n\nThe Assistant Secretary-General of the junta was appointed Chairman of the Board at Airports of Thailand. He initiated a comprehensive study of problems at the airport. The completed study showed that the cost of fixing 60 identified problems at the airport would be less than 1% of the total airport cost and that the problems could be fixed in four to five years. Dr. Narupol Chaiyut, a member of a committee overseeing service problems at the new airport, estimated that 70% of the problems would be fixed in 2007.\n\nThe Engineering Institute of Thailand (EIT) conducted investigations at the airport in late 2006 after signs of distress were spotted at several locations in Suvarnabhumi's taxiways and taxilanes. Rutting was found in five of the six taxilanes and one of the six taxiways. Plastic deformation of the asphalt wearing course was observed near the takeoff position of the runway. However, the investigators noted that plastic deformation at this location was a common phenomenon and only routine maintenance was required to repair the distress. Aside from this surface distortion, both runways were in good structural condition.\n\nFurther investigations found that taxilane and taxiway rutting was caused by separation of the asphalt binder from the aggregate surface due to prolonged water infiltration into the asphalt concrete base course, a phenomenon known as \"stripping.\" The 23 cm thick base course is the top-most layer of the tarmac. Core samples indicated that the concrete base course material contained the correct job mix and aggregate gradation. Below the base course are the binder course, and the cement-treated base.\n\nDetailed investigations found that water seepage was evident along the rims of the expansion joints in the cement-tested base, indicating that a large quantity of water was still trapped in the sand blanket (the bottom-most layer of the tarmac). It was found that water trapped in the sand blanket was fully confined with no connection to the pavement areas of the airport. A later investigation by the AOT identified several potential reasons for the trapped water in the sand blanket. The AOT's findings were disputed by several experts.\n\nThe EIT sent a formal warning to AOT in November 2006 about the urgent need to drain water from beneath the tarmac, and the need for immediate action. \"The AOT did nothing about the problem,\" Suebsak Promboon of the EIT noted. \"The situation might not have become this bad if the water had been drained then\".\n\nIn a public statement on 15 February 2007, the EIT again strongly recommended that trapped water should be drained out urgently to minimise the potential spread of cracks. Karun Chandrarangsu, president of EIT, noted, \"Suvarnabhumi is like a patient in a coma who continues to suffer from severe bleeding. Stopping the blood flow now is more urgent and important than debating what caused the injury.\"\n\nPrime Minister Surayud Chulanont and AOT Chairman General Saprang Kalayanamitr refused to authorize repairs on the airport tarmac. Suebsak Promboon, a senior foundation engineer and a member of the Tortrakul Yomnak-led airport tarmac inspection panel, accused the AOT of refusing to take action to solve the problems at the airport.\n\nCritics noted that junta-led investigations were unlikely to reveal an impartial picture of the airport's shortcomings. \"Problems are normal for any new airport. In our case it's made more complex because everybody wants to run down the former prime minister\", noted Sumet Jumsai, a leading Thai architect. Leading engineers were sharply divided over the root causes of problems faced by the new airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "9806010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9806010", "title": "Din Mohammad", "text": "Din Mohammad\n\nHajji Din Mohammad is a politician, writer and a Pashtun tribal leader in eastern Afghanistan who first served as the Governor of Nangarhar Province followed by Governor of Kabul Province. He comes from a distinguished Pashtun family \"Arsala\" which has served the Afghan nation for more than 150 years. \"Arsala\" family is part of the \"JabarKhel\"(a subtribe of the land-owning Ahmadzai tribe).He is also the elder brother of late Hajji Abdul Qadir and Abdul Haq His great-grandfather, Wazir Arsala Khan, served as Foreign Minister of Afghanistan in 1869. One of Arsala Khan's descendents, Taj Mohammad Khan, was a general at the Battle of Maiwand. Another descendent, Abdul Jabbar Khan, was Afghanistan’s first Ambassador to Russia.\n\nDin Mohammad was born in Nangarhar, Afghanistan. His father, Amanullah khan, served as a district administer in various parts of the country. Two of his uncles, Mohammad Rafiq Khan and Haji Zaman Khan, were members of the 7th session of the Afghan Parliament which worked to expand the rights of ordinary citizens under the monarchy.\n\nDin Mohammad’s brothers Abdul Haq and Hajji Abdul Qadir were Mujahideen commanders who fought against the Communist Red Army during the 1980s Soviet war in Afghanistan. Din Mohammad served as the deputy of the Hezbi Islami Party of Mohammad Yunus Khalis.Not Hizb Islami of Hikmatyar.\nHe served as the Minister of National Security in Afghanistan’s Interim Government in Exile during the 1990s and as Minister of Education in the Mujahideen Government which was established after the collapse of the Communist government. He also served as Deputy Prime Minister in the same period, but resigned when infighting erupted among the rival factions of Ahmad Shah Massoud and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nDuring the Taliban era, Din Mohammad lived in exile and later helped Abdul Haq in his efforts to establish a broad-based post-Taliban government. In 2001, Abdul Haq was captured and executed by the Taliban while pursuing efforts to promote the formation of a broad-based representative government. Din Mohammad's son Ezatullah Sahil was captured and killed by the Taliban along with Abdul Haq in 2001. Abdul Qadir served as the Governor of Nangarhar Province after the Soviet Occupation and was credited with maintaining peace in the province during the years of civil conflict that followed the Soviet withdrawal. Abdul Qadir served as a Vice President in the newly formed post-Taliban government of Hamid Karzai, but was assassinated by unknown assailants in July 2002. In the same month of 2002, Din Mohammad was selected as the Governor of Nangarhar Province. in August 2005, he became the Governor of Kabul Province until August 2009.\n\nDin Mohammad and his brother Hajji Nasrullah Baryalai Arsalai remain committed to the principles of inclusive government and reconciliation among competing factions in Afghanistan, and have been active in promoting the economic development and reconstruction of Afghan society after decades of chaos and violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "847217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847217", "title": "Fear of Flying (novel)", "text": "Fear of Flying (novel)\n\nFear of Flying is a 1973 novel by Erica Jong which became famously controversial for its portrayal of female sexuality and figured in the development of second-wave feminism.\n\nThe novel is written in the first person: narrated by its protagonist, Isadora Zelda White Stollerman Wing, a 29-year-old poet who has published two books of poetry. On a trip to Vienna with her second husband, Isadora decides to indulge her sexual fantasies with another man. Its tone may be considered conversational or informal. The story's American narrator is struggling to find her place in the world of academia, feminist scholarship, and in the literary world as a whole. The narrator is a female author of erotic poetry, which she publishes without fully realizing how much attention she will attract from both critics and writers of alarming fan letters.\n\nThe book resonated with women who felt stuck in unfulfilled marriages, and it has sold more than 20 million copies worldwide.\n\nIsadora Wing is a Jewish journalist from New York City’s Upper West Side. We meet her on a plane flight to Vienna for the first psychoanalyst’s conference since analysts were driven out during the Holocaust. She is surrounded by analysts, many of them her own from over the years, and her husband Bennett (also an analyst, naturally): \"There were 117 psychoanalysts on the Pan Am flight to Vienna and I'd been treated by at least six of them\" (page 5). Her fear of flying, both literally and metaphorically referring to a fear of freeing herself from the shackles of traditional male companionship, she associates with recent articles about plane hijackings and terrorist attacks. She also associates fear and loathing with Germany, her destination, because she and her husband were stationed in Heidelberg and she struggled both to fit in and to wrestle with the hatred and danger she felt being a Jew in post-Holocaust Germany.\n\nFreudians perhaps inevitably have their own ideas about the symbolism of an airplane in the formation of the unconscious and the sexual psyche, and this contrast provides narrative suspense. What did the six psychiatrists make of the narrator's fears? Did she tell them? What will they say in Vienna if she mentions her nervous emotions? These questions are not really explicitly stated, but they may well occur to a reader's mind. The narrator, meanwhile, occupies her mind with many questions, plans, mental rough drafts and reminiscences as her journey unfolds, including the \"zipless fuck,\" a major motif in the story that haunts the narrator throughout.\n\nUpon arriving, Isadora meets English Langian analyst Adrian Goodlove. She is immediately hooked. Despite his gruff attitude and dirty sandals, he seems to provide what she desires but doesn’t find in her own marriage - energy, excitement, desire, danger. They begin a poorly-veiled secret affair, dancing and kissing rather openly at conference events, staying out nights, spending days by German pools. Adrian is wild and awakens things in Isadora she believed to be lost in the everydayness of her marriage, despite the fact that he is a rotten lay and often impotent.\n\nBut Isadora’s desperation to feel alive and her developing feelings for Adrian lead her to the toughest decision: to return home with Bennett, or to go to London with Adrian. She agonizes over this decision. One night, Bennett finds Adrian and Isadora in bed together and joins them, in an adventurous sexual act that Bennett never acknowledges afterward.\n\nFinally, through an emotionally taxing and melodramatic letter that she never delivers to Bennett because he once again walks in and interrupts her, Isadora decides to leave with Adrian. The two of them drive through France, Germany, and Italy, camping every night, drinking, and making love. Along the way, Isadora confides in Adrian the stories of her past relationships and first marriage. She reveals that she met her first husband, Brian, in college, where they connected over their mutual love of literature and ability to walk for hours while quoting poetry. This ended when they married, and became a “bourgeois” couple, not seeing each other, not having sex, disconnecting. Brian, a certified genius, begins to fall into delusions, believing himself to be the second coming of Christ. He becomes violent, raping Isadora and choking her close to death in one mental break. He is repeatedly hospitalized and eventually moved to a facility in Los Angeles where Brian blames her for everything and they finally divorce.\n\nEventually, she decides to return home to Bennett. On a train journey to meet him in London, she is approached by an attendant who sexually assaults her, which propels her into her own psychological self-examination.\n\nShe realizes that when she is not in control of her body, when she doesn’t have agency or autonomy, that it doesn’t matter how much she’s dreamed of a situation, it will never be satisfying. When she returns home, she takes a bath, waits for Bennett, and comes to accept her body, herself, and the unknown future: “A nice body. Mine. I decided to keep it” (p 424).\n\nThe novel remains a feminist classic and the phrase \"zipless fuck\" has seen a resurgence in popularity as third-wave feminism authors and theorists continue to use it while reinterpreting their approach to sexuality and to femininity. John Updike's New Yorker review is still a helpful starting point for curious onlookers. He commented, \"A sexual frankness that belongs to, and hilariously extends the tradition of \"The Catcher in the Rye\" and \"Portnoy's Complaint\".\"\n\nIt was in this novel that Erica Jong coined the term \"zipless fuck\", which soon entered the popular lexicon. A \"zipless fuck\" is defined as a sexual encounter for its own sake, without emotional involvement or commitment or any ulterior motive, between two previously unacquainted persons.\n\nJong goes on to explain that it is \"zipless\" because \"when you came together, zippers fell away like rose petals, underwear blew off in one breath like dandelion fluff. For the true ultimate zipless A-1 fuck, it was necessary that you never got to know the man very well.\"\n\n\"Fear of Flying\" was written in the throes of the Sexual Revolution of the 1970s, as associated with second-wave feminism. Finally it was acknowledged that desire and fantasy are a good thing and not entirely condemnable in women, and Jong wanted to harness that newfound respect for desire into a piece of art that brought the intersections of sexual and nonsexual life together, something she felt was missing in literature. “At the time I wrote \"Fear of Flying\", there was not a book that said women are romantic, women are intellectual, women are sexual—and brought all those things together.\" “What [Isadora is] looking for is how to be a whole human being, a body and a mind, and that is what women were newly aware they needed in 1973.” But she also points out the drawbacks of a sexually liberated life, acknowledging that sexuality “is not the cure for every restlessness.” Male critics who interpreted Isadora as being “promiscuous,” were actually misinterpreting her acts - in reality, she has an active fantasy life but doesn’t in reality sleep with many men.\n\nJong says that today, women are no longer shocked by the Isadora’s sexuality and the depiction of sex and fantasy as readers were when the book was first released. Instead, she sees that book mirrors the lack of pleasure that many young women experience in sexual interactions. She cites the TV show \"Girls\" as an example of media that is depicting sexually liberated women but without attention to female pleasure. Just like Isadora, the women on television and alive today struggle to reconcile the empowerment of sexual freedom with the disempowerment of sex without pleasure. However, she also sees growth in the female population that live alone and “whose lives are full with friends, travel, work, everything and who don’t feel that in some way they’re inferior because they don’t have a man at their side” as being one extremely positive result of the way sexual liberation has transformed over the decades.\n\nThe political battle over women’s bodies today has also renewed the book’s relevance in Jong’s mind, constituting a 40th anniversary redistribution of the book. “All these states are introducing crazy anti-abortion rules...passing laws that they know are unconstitutional, shutting down Planned Parenthood clinics, and making it very hard...to get birth control.” She cites these types of political moves as a regression from the progress set out by the Sexual Revolution. She also still feels that female authors are “second-class citizens in the publishing world,” as Jennifer Weiner says in the introduction to the 40th anniversary edition: “it’s very hard, if you write about women and women’s struggles, to be seen as important with a capital ‘I.’”\n\nJewishness appears frequently throughout the book, although it may not stand out as the most eye-catching theme because of how entrenched it is in Isadora’s experience of the world. In particular, her Jewish heritage is invoked through her constant awareness of the history of her people and the trials and tribulations that the Jewish people have gone through not only in recent decades but over the course of their long history. This is a theory that Freud, a frequently referenced figure throughout (and raised as a Reform Jew himself), explored in his work to understand the persecution of Jews. Freud theorized that one of the things that makes Jews who they are, individually and culturally, is a biologically passed down awareness of the Jewish past: “...Jewishness is constituted by the biological inheritance of an archaic memory that Jewish people are inexorably compelled to transmit to future generations, whether consciously or unconsciously.” Isadora reflects this in her references to the Holocaust, awareness of the boundaries on her and her family (on one particular visit to her sister in Beirut), among other past traumas.\n\nThe role of Isadora’s mother is also an interesting invocation of Jewish stereotypes, in that she defies them in some ways and closely follows them in others. Rather than subscribing to the stereotypical image of a Jewish Mother as being overly excessive, nurturing, and giving, Isadora’s mother is rather cold and distant. She does, however, fit the mold of the Jewish Mother stereotype as a martyr and constantly seeking to guilt her children - she tells Isadora repeatedly throughout her childhood that Isadora is the entire reason that she is not a famous artist, as she had to give up her artistic career when she became a mother and could never return to her former glories or passion. This places a distance between mother and daughter.\n\nJong has denied that the novel is autobiographical but admits that it has autobiographical elements. However, an article in \"The New Yorker\" recounts that Jong's sister, Suzanna Daou (née Mann), identified herself at a 2008 conference as the reluctant model for Isadora Wing, calling the book \"an exposé of my life when I was living in Lebanon\". Daou angrily denounced the book, linking its characters to people in her own life and taking her sister to task for taking cruel liberties with them, especially Daou's husband. In the book, Isadora Wing's sister Randy is married to Pierre, who makes a pass at both Wing and her two other sisters. Jong dismissed her sister's claim, saying instead that \"every intelligent family has an insane member\".\n\nMany attempts to adapt this property for Hollywood have been made, starting with Julia Phillips, who fantasized that it would be her debut as a director. The deal fell through and Erica Jong litigated, unsuccessfully. In her second novel, Jong created the character Britt Goldstein—easily identifiable as Julia Phillips—a predatory and self-absorbed Hollywood producer devoid of both talent and scruples.\n\nIn May 2013 it was announced that a screenplay version by Piers Ashworth had been green-lighted by Blue-Sky Media, with Laurie Collyer directing.\n"}
{"id": "13810707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13810707", "title": "Heroes of the Environment (2007)", "text": "Heroes of the Environment (2007)\n\nHeroes of the Environment is a list published in Time Magazine. The inaugural list was published in October 2007. The list contains 43 entries, individuals or groups that have contributed substantially to the preservation of environment, and is divided into four categories: Leaders & Visionaries, Activists, Scientists & Innovators, and Moguls & Entrepreneurs.\n\nThe list has been commented and discussed worldwide, in newspapers or by organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "54963450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54963450", "title": "Homelessness in the Netherlands", "text": "Homelessness in the Netherlands\n\nHomelessness in the Netherlands is a social problem that is quickly on the rise. The increase is a consequence of cuts in welfare.\n\nIn 2015 31,000 people did not have a permanent place to stay, 13,000 more than in 2009 (74% increase over 6 years). The increase of non-Western population was larger, about 100%. Especially among young people homelessness is high. Between January 2015 and 2016 homelessness among people aged 18 through 30 increased from 8,000 to 12,400, an increase of 55% in just one year.\n\nIn international comparison, the proportion of homelessness among legals in the Netherlands (0.19%) is slightly higher than homelessness in the United States (0.18%), slightly lower than in France (0.21%), and lower than in the United Kingdom (0.31%) and Germany (0.35%). Official statistics of homelessness in the Netherlands are collected by Statistics Netherlands and do not include numbers of homeless illegal immigrants.\n\nSeveral organizations in the Netherlands, among which the Salvation Army, offer places to stay for a night. Reasons that many homeless people do not want to sleep in shelters, sometimes even when it freezes, include high drunkenness among residents, fighting, screaming, sexual harassment, and stealing of personal properties by residents of shelters.\n\nHomeless sleep in the streets, alleys, under bridges, in fields, dunes, along highways, in forests or illegally enter buildings. The number of outside dwellers is higher in the summer than in the winter, when additional places are offered in the shelters. It is illegal to sleep without a permit on property that isn't one own's so homeless people regularly get fined.\n\n"}
{"id": "30166600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166600", "title": "Human trafficking in Palau", "text": "Human trafficking in Palau\n\nPalau is a transit and destination country for an undetermined, but relatively small, number of women from countries in the Asia-Pacific region who are subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced prostitution and, to a lesser extent, men from the Philippines, China, and Bangladesh who are in conditions of forced labor. Some employers recruit foreign men and women to work in Palau through fraudulent representation of contract terms and conditions of employment. These foreign workers willingly migrate to Palau for jobs in domestic service, agriculture, or construction but are subsequently coerced to work in situations significantly different from what their contracts stipulatedexcessive hours without pay, threats of physical or financial harm, confiscation of their travel documents, and the withholding of salary payments are used as tools of coercion to obtain and maintain their compelled service. Some women migrate to Palau expecting to work as waitresses or clerks, but are subsequently forced into prostitution in karaoke bars and massage parlors. Non-citizens are officially excluded from the minimum wage law making them vulnerable to involuntary servitude and debt bondage.\n\nThe Government of Palau does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Available information suggests that the extent of Palau’s trafficking problem continues to be modest. Although the government began useful actions to address trafficking during the previous reporting period, in the past year it did not make similar efforts to prosecute trafficking offenders, identify victims, ensure victims’ access to appropriate victim services, or educate the public on the dangers of human trafficking. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of Palau made minimal progress in its anti-human trafficking law enforcement efforts during the reporting period. Palau’s Anti-Smuggling and Trafficking Act of 2005 prohibits all forms of trafficking in persons, and prescribes sufficiently stringent penalties for these offenses, ranging from 10 to 50 years’ imprisonment and fines up to $500,000; these are commensurate with penalties prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. The convictions of four traffickers successfully prosecuted in 2007 were overturned in 2008 and 2009 because the court felt the foreign defendants had been offered insufficient translation services during the trials, and the cases have not yet been re-filed by the government or re-prosecuted, available options under governing Palau laws. These convicted traffickers had forced 15 Filipinas and 9 Chinese waitresses into prostitution, subjecting them to food deprivation, confinement, and illegal salary deductions. Since winning his appeal, one of the traffickers has re-opened the karaoke bar where he had previously exploited trafficking victims.\n\nAllegations of labor recruiters, facilitators, and employers importing foreign trafficking victims to Palau were not investigated, and no labor trafficking offenders were prosecuted or punished. The government did not train law enforcement officers to proactively identify victims or to identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, such as foreign women in prostitution.\n\nThe Government of Palau offered minimal protective services to victims of trafficking over the reporting period. No long-term protective services were available to victims, and Palauan government agencies did not employ formal procedures to identify and refer trafficking victims to available services. The government did not identify or assist any victims of trafficking during the year, though it has done so in the past. A faith-based organization provided limited assistance to victims of any crime. In the past their services were accessible to trafficking victims and would be made available again, as needed. Palauan authorities did not penalize potential trafficking victims for illegal acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked and has previously encouraged victims to assist in the investigation and prosecution of trafficking offenders. The government did not remove victims to countries where they may face hardship or retribution. In the past, the government did not provide victims with financial assistance, but allowed them to remain in Palau and seek legal employment if they did not wish to return home.\n\nThe government made no discernible efforts to prevent human trafficking through planned campaigns to educate the public about its dangers. The government did not take steps to establish a national anti-trafficking policy, action plan or multi-agency coordination mechanism. Agencies, however, have informally cooperated with each other, with foreign governments, and with international organizations on trafficking matters in the past and continued to do so. In August 2009, the government charged the Chief of the Division of Labor in the Ministry of Commerce and Trade and the Director of the Department of Immigration with alien smuggling, falsification of travel documents, bribery, and misconduct in public office. Although authorities have not yet shown that the cases clearly involved the transnational movement of trafficking victims, the officials were assisting irregular migrants in avoiding standard immigration procedures; these migrants were from populations which had been identified as trafficking victims in Palau in the past. The government made no discernible efforts to address the demand for commercial sex acts or the demand for forced labor during the reporting period. Palau is not a party to the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n"}
{"id": "50707456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50707456", "title": "Inform Napalm", "text": "Inform Napalm\n\nInform Napalm is a volunteer initiative to inform Ukrainian citizens and the foreign public about the undeclared war against Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea, and the activities of the Russian special services as well as the militants of the so-called \"DPR\", \"LPR\", and \"Novorossiya\". The team members are engaged in a wide range of other volunteer activities. In order to inform the foreign audience, authors translate materials to dozens of languages, including Japanese and Chinese.\n\nThe Informnapalm.org website was created in early 2014 after the Russian military intervention in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea. During the existence of the project, volunteers conducted two profound investigations of the Boeing-777 crash and gathered evidence of the presence of Russian troops in Ukrainian territory.\nThe main activities of the project are collecting and analysing OSINT-information, found in open sources, including social networks. InformNapalm's investigation of 53rd Artillery Brigade commander colonel Sergei Muchkayev, suspected of killing the MH17 passengers, was used in the report of the Bellingcat research team.\n\nAfter the Russian intervention in Syria, InformNapalm began publishing personal data of Russian pilots who bombarded Syrian cities, and together with the media project \"Visuals\" created infographics containing personal data of crew members. These publications have caused negative reactions in Russia, in particular, the Russian President's press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, has said that in response to the actions of the project \"Russian special services will take all necessary measures\". In response, the authors of the site said that \"every violation the ceasefire in the Donbass by the joint Russian-separatist forces will cause the publication of another OSINT-investigation with names, photos, tactical and registration numbers and other details and facts related to Russian pilots crimes during a military operation in Syria\". TV channel Al Arabiya compared this InformNapalm project activity with WikiLeaks publications.\n\nOn 23 October 2016, Ukrainian hacker group CyberHunta published correspondence that it alleged was from the office email account of Vladislav Surkov, a political adviser to Vladimir Putin. Volunteers from Inform Napalm requested additional evidence from an alliance of hacker groups that includes CyberHunta, RUH8, FalconsFlame, and TRINITY. They secured the release of a 1GB Microsoft Outlook data file. Inform Napalm reported that the hackers also were in possession of documents from 2015 and 2016 that were being analysed by intelligence agencies and were not released due to their operational value.\n\nThe document leak included 2,337 emails from Surkov's inbox. The emails illustrate Russian plans to politically destabilize Ukraine and the coordination of affairs with major opposition leaders in separatist east Ukraine. The release included a document sent to Surkov by Denis Pushilin, former Chair of the People's Soviet of the Donetsk People's Republic, listing casualties that occurred during 2014. It also included a 22-page outline of \"a plan to support nationalist and separatist politicians and to encourage early parliamentary elections in Ukraine, all with the aim of undermining the government in Kiev.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37098413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37098413", "title": "International Year of Shelter for the Homeless", "text": "International Year of Shelter for the Homeless\n\nThe International Year of Shelter for the Homeless (IYSH) was recognized in 1987 by the United Nations. It was first declared, in principle, in UN resolution 36/71 in 1981, and proclaimed officially in 1982 in resolution 37/221. It was mainly aimed at improving shelter / housing for the poor in general (and not just homeless people), especially in developing countries. It was also a follow-up to the Habitat I conference in 1976.\n\nIn several countries, national actions were created, such as Australia which created an IYSH Secretariat, or the United Kingdom where a trust was created to collect donations from housing associations for shelter projects in developing countries, with some projects part-funded by the Overseas Development Administration. The trust later evolved into the NGO Homeless International (now operating as Reall, or Real Equity for All).\n\nThe World Habitat Awards were created by the BSHF as their contribution to the IYSH. Two other prizes were created by the Japan Housing Association as awards to deserving housing projects, the IYSH Memorial Prize in 1988 and the IYSH Memorial Encouragement Prize in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "13064216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13064216", "title": "Iraqis in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Iraqis in Saudi Arabia\n\nThe population of Iraqis in Saudi Arabia includes Saudi Arabian citizens of Iraqi ancestry as well as Iraqi citizen expatriates living in Saudi Arabia. According to the UNHCR, , about 17,000 Arab Shia Iraqis who fled to Saudi Arabia during the Iran–Iraq War lived in the country with \"de facto\" refugee status; another 33,000 Iraqis fled to Saudi Arabia from U.S.-led attacks, of whom about 5,200 remained in the camp at Rafha.\n\n( Born in Saudi Arabia - Saudi Father/Iraqi Mother - Has Saudi Arabian Citizenship )\n( Born in Saudi Arabia - Saudi Father/Iraqi Mother - Has Saudi Arabian Citizenship )\n( Born in Iraq - Iraqi Father/Iraqi Mother - Has Saudi Arabian Citizenship )\n\n"}
{"id": "9769131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9769131", "title": "Ivatan people", "text": "Ivatan people\n\nThe Ivatans are a Filipino ethnolinguistic group predominant in the islands of Batanes of the Philippines. Their ethnogenesis is unclear; their origins remain untraced among scholars, but they are known to be an Austronesian group, related to neighboring Ilocanos on purely linguistic basis.\n\nThe culture of the Ivatans is partly influenced by the environmental condition of Batanes. Unlike the old-type nipa huts common in the Philippines, Ivatans have adopted their now-famous stone houses made of limestone, designed to protect against the hostile climate.\n\nDocuments do not show much about the history of the Ivatans and at present, scholars who study their origins are still unsure as to their exact origin. They question whether the pre-historic Ivatans came from the northern part of Luzon or southern portions of China and Taiwan. There is evidence that they might be a surviving Christianized remnant of a people that once resided on all the islands between Luzon and Taiwan. However, they have considered the close racial resemblance of the Ivatans to the Malays and the structure of their language could mean they came from other parts of the Philippines. Tracing their roots through Batanes' folklores, genetic studies of Omoto, a Japanese anthropologist, of the Yami of Orchid Island (\"Lanyu\") show closer genetic affinity of the Yami to the Tagalog and Visayan and linguistically to the Batanic (Bashiic) sub-branch of the Malayo-Polynesian branch.\n\nIvatans already lived in Batanes before the Spaniards arrived in the Philippines in the 16th century, and lived autonomously long thereafter. On June 26, 1783, Batanes was incorporated to the Spanish East Indies. In 1686, Ivatans were forced to settle in the lowlands of Batanes. The Ivatans were under Spanish rule for 115 years, and gained their independence on September 18, 1898. However, June 6 is celebrated in Batanes as its founding day.\n\nOne of the earliest accounts of the Ivatan is that of the British buccaneer William Dampier in 1687. Dampier described them as \"short, squat people; hazel eyes, small yet bigger than Chinese; low foreheads; thick eyebrows; short low noses; white teeth; black thick hair; and very dark, copper-colored skin.\" They also have strong mixture of the short type of the Mongols, and there are some individuals who seem to have some physical characteristics peculiar to the Ainus of Japan.\n\nIn 1990, population of the Ivatans was 15,026, an increase of 24% over the 1980 population of 12,091. These were distributed to the six municipalities, with 38% residing in Basco, 23% in Itbayat, 12% in Sabtang, 11% in Mahatao and 8% for Uyugan and Ivana. In the 2000 census, 15,834 Ivatans were among the 16,421 population in Batanes.\n\nThe mother tongue of the Ivatans is the \"Chirin nu Ibatan\", but is commonly known as Ivatan. A distinct Austronesian language, the Ivatan has two dialects including the \"Basco\", the \"Itbayáten\" and possibly the Yami. The Ivatans widely speak and understand the Ilocano, Tagalog, and English languages.\n\nToday, most Ivatans are Catholics, like the rest of the country, although some have not converted practice ancestral worship to their \"anitos\". However, there are growing Protestant denominations specially in the capital town of Batanes.\n\nThe Ivatan's culture have been largely influenced by the climate of Batanes. Exposed to high risks of disruption to their agriculture, Ivatans have adopted strategies to live.\n\nTraditionally, because of frequent typhoons and drought, they plant root crops able to cope with the environment. These crops include yam, sweet potato, taro, garlic, ginger and onion, as they ensure higher chances of survival during awry climate conditions. The Ivatan study the behavior of animals, sky color, wind and clouds to predict the weather. Ivatans usually gather their animals and stay in their houses when they see that the cows take shelter from the \"payaman\" (communal pasture) and birds taking refuge in houses or in the ground. A pink sky with an orange hue also heralds a storm.\n\nThe sea is vital to the Ivatan's way of life. Although abundant only in the month of March to May, they depend on the flying fish (dibang) and dolphinfish (arayu) present on the shores of Batanes. They have a native delicacy called \"uvod\" (the pith of the banana stalk) which is served, along with the wine \"palek\", on festive occasions such as weddings.\n\nBefore Spaniards arrived at the Philippines, Ivatans built their houses largely from cogon grass, small and well-situated, designed to protect against strong winds. The Spaniards introduced large-scale production of lime for the construction of their now-famous stone houses. With meter-thick limestone walls, the type of their infrastructures are designed against the harsh Batanes environment, which is known as a terminal passage of typhoons in the Philippines. The basic cogon grass is still preserved as roofs of their houses, thickly constructed to withstand strong winds. These houses are comparable to the white houses in New Zealand, Ireland and Scottish Highlands.\n\nOne of the endemic clothing of the Ivatans is the \"vakul\". A \"vakul\" is a headgear designed to protect the wearer from sun and rain. It is made from abaca fiber of the \"vuyavuy\" palm.\n\nThe Ivatan have three folk songs styles: the \"laji\", the \"kanta\" and the \"kalusan\". The \"laji\" are ancient lyrical songs that are supposed to be sung when they are merry or just finished work. The \"kalusan\" is sung during work.\n\nThe Ivatan have legends that are called \"kabbata\". They have the \"rawod\", chants that chronicle the adventures of the Ivatan's forefathers as they escape a disaster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37848259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37848259", "title": "Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution", "text": "Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution\n\nKarl Marx's Theory of Revolution is a 5-volume work (1977–1990) about Karl Marx by Hal Draper.\n\nThe economist Robert Heilbroner praised \"Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution\" as an \"extraordinarily stimulating work written in a fresh, open style which comes as a welcome relief after the turgidities of so much Marxist writing.\" The political scientist David McLellan described it as a \"splendidly detailed discussion aiming to show that Marx was always right.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5625914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5625914", "title": "Kin-Yip Chun", "text": "Kin-Yip Chun\n\nKin-Yip Chun is a Canadian geophysicist at the University of Toronto's Department of Physics. He gained attention when he sued his university for alleged racial discrimination.\n\nChun received a Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Engineering Science from the University of Toronto, an M.A. in Geophysics at Columbia University and a Ph.D. at Berkeley. He joined the University of Toronto as a research associate in 1985. His research was in seismology.\n\nChun was allegedly promised a tenure-track position with the department when he accepted. His duties matched or exceeded the senior professors of the department. Chun brought in $1.4 million in research grants, had 26 research publications in international journals, represented Canada at a United Nations conference, supervising graduate students, and teaching classes.\n\nAs a research associate, he was not on the university's payroll. He depended upon research grants to fund his work and cover his living expenses as well. Chun remained a research associate for ten years, while being passed over for tenure four times. One time, when he applied, the other candidates were given a month to prepare for the presentation, while he was only given a few days. In another instance, Chris Chapman was selected over him but only stayed for a short time before leaving for the private sector, while the position was eliminated after his departure, leading to allegations that Chapman was given the job in order to preempt Chun from getting it. Up to 1992, as \"Full Member of the Graduate Faculty\", Chun held the responsibilities of a professor, as he supervised graduate students and taught lectures, but not the pay and benefits that accompany such a position.\n\nIn 1994, Chun complained to the Dean of Arts & Sciences, stating that he would commit suicide if the search process continued to be unfair, and his suicide threat would later be frequently used against him although Dr Chun maintained that his statement was clear hyperbole.\n\nChun's dismissal soon drew nationwide media attention to his plight. He was supported by many student groups and the Ontario NDP leader Howard Hampton. In June 1995, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) sent two members of the Academic Freedom and Tenure (AF&T) Committee to the University of Toronto to investigate, and their report suggested a pattern of systematic discrimination. The AF&T also made several recommendations, including allowing Chun to return to the university with a salary and job security, and holding a fair competition for a tenured position in the faculty. The Ontario Human Rights Commission backed Chun's complaint, stating that racism was a factor in stopping him from obtaining a full-time position, describing the Physics Department as a \"poisoned work environment\", \"cronyism\", \"the dynamic of an 'old boys' network\" operating in all four job competitions, and \"a series of reprisals culminating in his dismissal\".\n\nThe University however refused to acknowledge the AF&T report and its recommendations, and tried to have the OHRC dismiss the case. The case dragged on for years. Back in 1994, the University's own appointed investigator for the case, Dr. Cecil Yip, stated that Dr. Chun \"acted and has been treated like a professoriate in spite of the fact he has derived his salary support entirely from his own external research contracts. And he has served the Department and the University well in this capacity.\" Further, \"it is certainly justified for Dr. Chun to feel ... he is being penalized for good performance\", and concluded, \"In my judgment Dr. Chun has been exploited by the Department.\" Overall, the \"Yip Report\" concluded that Chun had been exploited, though it found no evidence that he had been a victim of racism.\n\nIn 1998, Chun launched a $1-million lawsuit against the University for unjust dismissal.\n\nBy the time the controversy had ended, President Robert Prichard had departed and he had been succeeded by Robert Birgeneau. A mediated settlement was reached in 2000 and Chun dropped his appeal against the Ontario Human Rights Commission, as well as his $1-million lawsuit against the University. In return, Chun received a full-time faculty position of Research Scientist and Adjunct Professor, $100,000 in compensation, an estimated $150,000 in legal fees and a $260,000 research start-up fund.\n\nA column by Margaret Wente of \"The Globe and Mail\" which attacked the settlement received severe criticism from many students and faculty.\n\nThe Arts & Science Students' Union (ASSU), which represents more than 22,000 full-time undergraduate students at the University of Toronto described the incident as the \"Dr. Chun miscarriage of justice\" when bringing up the controversies of Prichard's administration, on the back of their 2001 Arts and Sciences Anti-Calendar.\n\nIn 2003, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) established a committee to study Dr. Chun's case. They concluded there were \"serious irregularities\" in the hiring process in each case and that Dr. Chun was treated unfairly. They discovered when he had made allegations of systemic discrimination, he was subject to various forms of harassment and unfair treatment, such as being prevented from attending departmental meetings, denied a faculty library card, frustrated from pursuing his research, and prohibited from teaching courses. The inquiry described this as a serious violation of academic freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1581675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581675", "title": "Kobon language", "text": "Kobon language\n\nKobon (pronounced \"Kxombon)\" is a language of Papua New Guinea. It has somewhere around 90–120 verbs.\n\nKobon has a Pandanus language, spoken when harvesting karuka.\n\nKobon is spoken in Madang Province and Western Highlands Province, north of Mount Hagen.\n\nMonophthongal vowels are , diphthongs are . and may be and word-initially. () is written and () is written .\n\nOnly and the diphthongs occur word-initially, apart from the quotative particle, which is variably /a~e~o~ö/. occur syllable-initially within a word. All vowels (including the diphthongs) occur syllable-medially (in CVC syllables), syllable-finally and at the ends of words. Many vowel sequences occur, including some with identical vowels.\n\nKobon distinguishes an alveolar lateral , a palatal lateral , a subapical retroflex lateral flap ( ), and a fricative trill , though the frication on the latter is variable.\n\nVoiced obstruents may be prenasalized after vowels, depending on the preceding consonant, and are voiceless word-initially. Liquids other than tend toward final devoicing. For example, final is and final tends to . ( and do not occur in final position, while nasals and retain voicing.) Voiceless consonants other than and are optionally voiced between vowels.\n\nAll consonants occur syllable initially, though only occurs word-initially in a single mimetic word. All consonants but occur syllable- and word-finally. Clusters occur in many (C)VC.CV(C) words, as well as initially in a handful of mostly monosyllabic CCV(C) words. Attested initial clusters are .\n\nIntervocalically, the lenis obstruents are oral when a nasal or another lenis obstruent occurs in the preceding syllable, and are prenasalized otherwise, with some variability after . They are often oral in a medial cluster after another consonant. Otherwise the allophones in the table above are largely in free variation.\n\nKobon is a subject–object–verb language.\n\nSingular, dual, and plural are distinguished in personal pronouns and kinship terminology.\n\nLike the other Kalam languages, Kobon is famous for having a very small number of verbs—perhaps less than 120 for the entire language. These verbs are combined with nouns into phrases with specific meanings, much as one says \"have dinner\" rather than \"dine\" in English.\n\nThis makes for an interesting window into semantics. One might expect that with a very limited set of verbs, their meanings would be quite general as \"have, do, be\" and \"go\" are in English. To a certain extent this is really the case, as there is for example only one verb of perception. That is, the same verb is used for \"see, hear, taste, smell, feel\" (both physically and emotionally), \"think,\" and \"understand\" (compare with \"I see\" for \"I understand\" in English). Another verb is used for making sound, whether it's speaking, singing, praying, crying, twigs breaking, rocks clattering, or water gurgling. However, some Kobon verbs are quite specific. There is one exception for \"sound,\" for example: there's a specific verb for calling a pig. There are also three verbs of \"pouring,\" depending on whether the thing being poured is solid, liquid, or food; and there is even a verb that means \"to quarter a cassowary.\"\n\nKobon has been written in the Latin alphabet for over 30 years. The special letters ƚ and ɫ are used for the subapical retroflex lateral flap and palatal lateral, respectively.\n\n5–15% of Kobon speakers are literate.\n\n"}
{"id": "4355004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4355004", "title": "Kongu Vellalar", "text": "Kongu Vellalar\n\nKongu Vellalars, sometimes referred to simply as Gounder, are a community from the western region of Tamil Nadu, which is known as Kongu Nadu. It also refers to the title or surname used by the Vellalar community from the region. Kongu Vellala Gounders were classified as a Forward Caste at the time of Indian independence but they successfully requested to be reclassified as a Backward Class in 1975. The Vellalars of Kongu region came to be known as Kongu Vellalar or Gounder, though both the names have also been treated separately in some regions.\n\nThe community plays a significant role in the political and economic life of the Kongu Nadu region. Among them are businessmen who figure among the global leaders in several industrial sectors.\n\nThe community has its own style of marriage ceremony. The ceremony is led by person called an Arumbukarar or Arumaikkarar. A long song composed by Kambar, called \"Mangala valthu\", is usually sung. In the wedding ceremony the brother of the bride and sister of the groom play significant roles.\n"}
{"id": "38767858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38767858", "title": "List of Mexican states by homicides", "text": "List of Mexican states by homicides\n\nThis is a list of Mexican states by their respective homicide data.\n\nThe National Institute of Statistic and Geography released information of homicides for the 31 federal states and the Federal District of Mexico. In the year 2011 there were 27,199 homicides in Mexico. The state of Chihuahua ranked number one with the most homicides in the country, the least was Baja California Sur. For Mexico there were 24 homicides for every 100,000 inhabitants.\n\n"}
{"id": "38365010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38365010", "title": "London Sake Challenge", "text": "London Sake Challenge\n\nLondon Sake Challenge (LSC), established in 2012 by the Sake Sommelier Association and its founders Xavier Chapelou and Kumiko Ohta, is an annual sake competition held at Harrods, and is the first competition of its kind. Products submitted from breweries all over Japan are evaluated by sake sommeliers from around the world and judged by taste, quality, labelling and packaging. The first competition took place on 20 August 2012, during 2012 London Olympic Games.\n\nThe purpose of the event is to recognise outstanding premium sakes. It aims to promote the consumption of sake by highlighting a new market where sake is matched with non-oriental food. It also seeks to increase public awareness and fashionability of the drink in the world.\n\nEvery sake is assessed independently, not comparatively. Sake sommeliers and jury members evaluate each sake by scoring appearance, flavour and taste in the first round of blind tasting. Labelling and packaging are assessed separately in the second round. Sake sommeliers score sakes from 0 to 5 stars.\n\nThe competition awards gold, silver and bronze medals to the highest scoring sakes in accordance with the judging criteria. \nAward winners receive correspondent medal stickers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7155899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7155899", "title": "Marital breakdown", "text": "Marital breakdown\n\nMarital breakdown refers to the common process whereby the relationship between a married couple erodes, such that they cannot ordinarily restore their relationship. There are many stages to the process, and each individual goes through the stages at different rates. It is a complex process involving psychology, personal finance, and often religion. It is the breach of domestic anticipation, often leading to a divorce or dissolution of the marital relationship. Often there are children, in-laws, and other individuals involved in the process. At the end of the process, there may be no relationship left, or there may be a long-term relationship at a distance. (see legal separation) Every marital breakdown is different in this regard.\n\nThere are many reasons why some marriages last and others breakdown. The famous 1989 movie The War of the Roses depicts an extremely violent marital breakdown, where two otherwise reasonable people breakdown into violent fits of anger directed at one another. Such violence often requires immediate legal intervention to keep individuals from harming one another. In most States, a domestic violence restraining order (also sometimes called an Order of Protection) is routinely granted when one domestic partner proves that the other has caused violence.\n\nNot all marital breakdowns necessarily result in a divorce. Not all divorces result from marital breakdowns, though the courts ordinarily require one of the parties to attest on penalty of perjury that such a breakdown has occurred before a divorce can be granted.\n\nIn Hausa culture, divorce refers to the wife receiving an agreement that the husband has rejected the marriage; she is expected to return to her father's house.\n\nInterpersonal communication relationship dissolution\n"}
{"id": "6857084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6857084", "title": "Matlatzinca", "text": "Matlatzinca\n\nMatlatzinca is a name used to refer to different indigenous ethnic groups in the Toluca Valley in the state of México, located in the central highlands of Mexico. The term is applied to the ethnic group inhabiting the valley of Toluca and to their language, Matlatzinca.\nWhen used as an ethnonym, Matlatzinca refers to the people of Matlatzinco. \"Matlatzinco\" was the Aztec (Nahuatl) term for the Toluca Valley. The political capital of the valley was also referred to as “Matlatzinco;” this was a large city whose ruins are today known as the archaeological site of Calixtlahuaca. In Prehispanic times the Toluca Valley was the home to speakers of at least four languages: Otomi, Matlatzinca, Mazahua, and Nahuatl. Thus speakers of any of these languages could be called “Matlatzinca” if they resided in the Toluca Valley. When the Aztec native historical sources or the Spanish chroniclers refer to “the Matlatzinca” it is often not clear where they mean speakers of the Matlatzinca language, the peoples of the Toluca Valley, or even the inhabitants of Calixtlahuaca.\n\nThe Matlatzinca language is part of the Oto-Pamean subgroup of the Oto-Manguean language family, which also includes Otomi, Mazahua, Pame and Chichimeca Jonaz. Linguistically the term “Matlatzinca” refers to speakers of the Matlatzinca language. In ancient, historical and modern times, the Matlatzinca language was spoken in the Toluca Valley of central Mexico, west of the Valley of Mexico. The Matlatzinca language has two subgroups or dialects that are mutually unintelligible: one called Ocuiltec or Tlahuica and Matlatzinca proper. While originally one language they are now so removed that they are often considered separate languages. Matlatzinca is severely endangered and now only spoken by around 100, mostly elderly people in San Francisco Oxtotilpa and Ocuiltec/Tlahuica spoken by between 50-100 in Ocuilan municipio in the villages San Juan Atzingo and Santa Lucía del Progreso.\n\n"}
{"id": "13113590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13113590", "title": "Medical certifications for pilots", "text": "Medical certifications for pilots\n\nIn the United States, there are three classes of medical certifications for pilots; such certificates are required to legally exercise the privileges of a Pilot exercising the privileges of either a Private, Commercial or Airline Transport Pilot license. Medical Certificates are not needed for Glider, Balloon, Recreational or Sport Pilot certifications. Each certificate must be issued by a doctor approved by the Federal Aviation Administration to a person of stable physical and mental health.\n\nThe three kinds are:\n\n\nMedical certificates higher than the minimum requirement for a pilot license level still allow the holder to exercise the privileges at that level, even after the initial class of medical certification has expired. For instance, a pilot holding a valid first-class medical certificate may operate a plane with the privilege level of a private or commercial pilot. These privileges may be exercised until the date that a medical certificate of the minimum required class would expire; 9 months after issuance of a first-class medical, a pilot over 40 could still use the certificate to operate as a commercial or private/recreational pilot, and could still operate as a private or recreational pilot up to 2 years after issuance.\n\nMilitary and civilian pilots must pass routine periodic medical examinations known informally as \"flight physicals\" in order to retain the medical clearance or certification that qualifies them to fly. Military pilots go to a flight surgeon, an armed forces physician qualified to perform such medical evaluations. With the exception of glider pilots, balloon pilots and sport pilots, civilian pilots in the United States and most other nations must obtain a flight physical from a civilian physician known as an Aviation Medical Examiner (AME). AMEs are physicians designated and trained by the FAA to screen individuals for fitness to perform aviation duties. Pilot medical assessment by way of the flight physical is an important public health function.\n\nFlying has the potential for serious consequences if not done properly and carefully. Just as it would be unwise to fly in an aircraft that is not airworthy, it is unsafe to fly as, or with, a pilot who is medically compromised. Annual inspections are performed on all aircraft to assure that they meet minimum safety standards. Routine medical exams accomplish the same goal for pilots. When an aircraft successfully completes an annual inspection, the inspector endorses in the logbooks to signify the aircraft is airworthy. Similarly, when a pilot successfully passes the flight physical, the physician endorses the Airmen Medical Certificate which the pilot then carries when performing flight duties. This is then evidence that the pilot has met the medical standards for aircraft operation.\n\nFederal Aviation Regulations in the U.S. require pilots and air traffic controllers to have periodic flight physicals in order to perform their aviation related duties. Authority for these laws comes from the CFR (Code of Federal Regulations) parts 61 and 67. Federal regulations describe three classes of medical certificates: Class 3 medical certificates are for private pilot duties only. They have the least restrictive medical requirements and the certificates are good for 5 years for applicants under age 40 and 2 years for those 40 and over. Class 2 medical certificates are for commercial, non-airline duties as well as private pilot duties. This certificate would be required of crop dusters, charter pilots, corporate pilots, and anyone else who flies commercially. The certificate is good for 1 year for commercial activities and 2 or 5 years for private pilot use based on age. Class 1 medical certificates are required for airline transport pilots who fly scheduled airliners. These are the most complex examinations and include electrocardiograms (EKGs). EKGs are required at the first Class 1 medical after the applicant turns 35 and then the first medical after age 40 and yearly thereafter. Class 1 certificates are good for airliner duties for 1 year for applicants under age 40 and 6 months for those 40 and over. Like the Class 2 certificate, however, these remain good for a full year for other commercial activities and 2 or 5 years for private pilot duties. Detailed medical requirements for each class of pilot exam are described in Code of Federal Regulations Part 67.\n\nA newer pilot classification in the United States does not require a formal flight physical. A pilot can fly a light sport aircraft if they hold a sport pilot certificate or a recreational pilot certificate and have a U.S. driver' license from any state. Pilots with neither a driver's license nor an Airmen Medical Certificate can still fly, but aviation duties are restricted to non-commercial activities in a glider or a balloon. The pilot must self-endorse and certify that he/she has no known medical deficiencies which would render them incapable of piloting an aircraft. Sport pilot medical requirements are described in detail in CFR 61.303.\n\nDepending upon which Class certificate a pilot wants or needs, it is possible that either the Aviation Medical Examiner or the FAA may deny a pilot's medical certificate. This may be due to recent surgery, medication taken, non-aviation-related offenses (such as drunk driving citations), or any other medical condition. Pilots may appeal denials up to and including formal appeals to the National Transportation Safety Board. The process of making an appeal includes meticulous documentation of a pilot's medical condition, therapies involved in treatment, and may be accompanied by psychological evaluations and/or other data. While any pilot may successfully make and receive approval via appeals, there are professional organizations that exist to aid pilots in appealing the denial of a medical certificate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11552324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11552324", "title": "Metyktire", "text": "Metyktire\n\nThe Metyktire are a subgroup of the Kayapo people of Brazil. They live on the Menkregnoti reservation in the Amazon River basin. They are estimated to have about 87 members. They were discovered in May 2007 when two tribesmen entered a Kayapo village in the Menkregnoti reservation. The Metyktire form part of the Kayapo people and speak an archaic version of the Kayapo language.\n\nWhen discovered, they had not had any known contact with Western civilization. This was attributed to their location on the reservation, in an area difficult to access due to dense jungle and lack of nearby rivers. The Metyktire had had little to no recent contact with other Kayapo until the 2007 visit. The Kayapo believe the Metyktire formed when several families fled deeper into the jungle in the 1950s.\n\nNeither men nor women wear clothes. Men wear penis-protection. The women shave their heads.\n"}
{"id": "28354272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28354272", "title": "Mru language", "text": "Mru language\n\nMru is a Sino-Tibetan language and one of the recognized languages of Bangladesh. It is spoken by a community of Mros (Mru) inhabiting the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh with a population of 22,000 according to the 1991 census, and in Burma. The Mros are the second-largest tribal group in Bandarban District of the Chittagong Hill Tracts. A small group of Mros also live in Rangamati Hill District.\n\nThe Mru language is considered \"Severely endangered\" by UNESCO.\n\nMru forms the Mruic language branch with Hkongso and Anu, which are spoken in Paletwa Township, Chin State, Myanmar. The position of Mruic with Sino-Tibetan is unclear.\n\nThe Mros live in forest areas of Lama, Ruma, Alikaram, and Thanchi near Chimbuk Mountain of Bandarban District (Rashel 2009). They also live in Sittwe (Akiab), Rakhine State, Burma.\n\nThere are five Mru dialects according to Ebersole (1996).\n\nThere are five major Mro clans (Rashel 2009).\n\nRashel (2009) also lists another classification scheme which lists ten Mro clans.\n\nUnlike the Kuki-Chin languages, Mru has SVO (subject-verb-object) word order (Ebersole 1996).\n\nRashel (2009:159) lists the following Mro numerals.\n\nThe Mru alphabet is an indigenous, messianic script: In the 1980s Menlay Murang (also known as Manley Mro) created the religion of Khrama (or Crama) and with it a new alphabet for the Mru language.\n\nThe Mru (or Mro) alphabet is written from left to right and has its own set of digits. It does not use tone marks.\n\nThe Mru language is written using both the Latin and Mru alphabets.\n\nThe Mru alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in June, 2014 with the release of version 7.0.\n\nThe Unicode block for the Mru alphabet, called Mro, is U+16A40–U+16A6F:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5743860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5743860", "title": "Murder of Nathalie Mahy and Stacy Lemmens", "text": "Murder of Nathalie Mahy and Stacy Lemmens\n\nNathalie Mahy (9 August 1995 – ) and Stacy Lemmens (14 December 1998 – ) were two Belgian stepsisters, who disappeared in the city of Liège on June 10, 2006 and were found murdered on June 28, 2006. The disappearance and subsequent finding of the murdered girls caused commotion in Belgium, even more so because they reminded many of the paedophile murders committed by Marc Dutroux some ten years earlier.\n\nNathalie Mahy was the daughter of Didier Mahy and Catherine Dizier. Stacy Lemmens was the daughter of Thierry Lemmens and Christiane Granziero. Granziero had been found guilty of child neglect and was arrested on January 17, 2008 for drug trafficking.\n\nOn June 10, 2006 at 01:00, the two were playing outside the bar \"Aux Armuriers\" in the borough Saint-Léonard, while Catherine Dizier and her friend Thierry Lemmens were inside, reportedly drunk. Around 3 a.m., their disappearance was noticed and the police and Child Focus alerted.\n\nOn June 13, the prime suspect, Abdallah Ait-Oud, turned himself in after seeing his photo on television. He denied having anything to do with the case and claimed to have an alibi. However, it was established that he was in the cafe that night. Moreover, he has a history of child abuse, for which he was incarcerated. He was released in December 2005 from a mental hospital after raping two minors, one being his niece. He never admitted to his previous crimes.\n\nOn June 28, the bodies of both girls were found in a sewer in Liège, some 400 metres from the bar \"Aux Armuriers\". The Justice Department confirmed that the girls were murdered by strangulation, while Nathalie's body showed the signs of sexual abuse. On the same day, Dutch newspaper \"De Telegraaf\" received a letter with detailed information on the whereabouts of the two girls, a letter post-dated June 27.\n\nThe Justice Department also confirmed that DNA of a third person has been found on the bodies. The identity of this third person has not yet been established, since incredibly, there are still no conclusive results of the DNA analysis. His slight injuries and traces found on his clothes when Ait-Oud turned himself in are consistent with those he would have suffered when dumping the girls in the place they were found. He is also said to have shaved his head the night of the disappearance. After looking into the investigation files, the father of Stacy Lemmens declared that he believed Ait-Oud was guilty.\n\nOn November 14, 2006, it was reported that in the same neighbourhood where Mahy and Lemmens lived, an 11-year-old child was almost kidnapped at knifepoint by a 20- to 30-year-old man, were it not for a bystander who helped the child into safety. The suspect, of Slavic-Italian appearance, drove away in a Volkswagen Golf with a German license plate, together with an accomplice.\n\nOn June 10, 2008, Abdallah Ait Oud was found guilty by a jury of kidnapping, rape and murder of the children, and sentenced to life imprisonment (which, under the Belgian law, is most of the time not fully served in prison but later on changed into a suspended sentence).\n\n"}
{"id": "12911209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911209", "title": "National Population and Family Planning Commission", "text": "National Population and Family Planning Commission\n\nNational Population and Family Planning Commission (NPFPC, 2003-2013), formerly National Family Planning Commission (1981-2003), of the Government of the People's Republic of China was the state agency responsible for population and family planning in the People's Republic of China. The Commission was dissolved and superseded by the National Health and Family Planning Commission in March 2013, during the first session of the 12th National People's Congress.\n\nThe agency was managed by a minister and four vice ministers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16321344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16321344", "title": "Pai Tavytera language", "text": "Pai Tavytera language\n\nPai Tavytera is a Guarani language spoken by about 600 Pai Tavytera people in eastern Paraguay, in Amambay, eastern Concepción, eastern San Pedro, and northern Canindeyú Departments. The language has 70% lexical similarity with the Kaiwá language, spoken in Brazil. Among Pai Tavyetera people, language use is shifting towards Guaraní.\n\nThe language is written in the Latin script.\n\n"}
{"id": "46455614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46455614", "title": "Parental portrayals in the media", "text": "Parental portrayals in the media\n\nParental views in the upcoming social media in addition with the household outlook makes a stronger impact gender stereotypes in the society with many outlets in media showing the \"Cultural American Household\".configurations. Social Scientists have found that home, family, and romance are three of the most important components of the way characters are presented. Moreover, these qualities are often presented in a stereotypical and traditional fashion. In the 1950s the meaning of the word \"parent\" coincided with the nuclear family structure--husband, wife, and children. Parents had a responsibility to uphold traditional gender roles in society. Gender roles in society were as follows: fathers work outside of the home and bring in the bread (take on the role of providers), while mothers tend to housework, make sure they are emotionally available, and look after the children (take on the role of caretakers). In today's time, the definition and responsibility of a parent has become more flexible/adjustable since the 1950s, although some parents tend to stick to their traditional gender roles. For example, two-married-parent families were the most common type of family unit a generation ago; however, in the year 2000 that particular family structure could only be found in one out of four households. Because of the shift in parenting, media outlets took it upon themselves to provide representation for certain family structures outside of the nuclear family, leaving them flexible as well. Mass media has presented a multitude of family structures and has promoted the acceptance of alternate family structures in many ways including television, newspapers, movies, commercials, books, comics, and etc. Media is linked to the structure of families, given that parents and their children confide in it when questioning their own family and parenting practices. It's influence impacts parents positively and negatively, either by underrepresentation (dumb, irresponsible) or drawing the perfect picture (good moms and dads).\n\nThere have been a number of approaches to ultimately study the media's portrayal of the family. One theoretical approach surrounds the cultivation perspective which states that cultivation of a worldview skewed toward that of televised portrayals among heavy viewers. According to a 1976 study done by Gerber and Gross, this type of worldview becomes the social reality of television heavy viewers. Social learning theory has also been used as a theoretical framework for study the effects that the media has on the individual.\nEvidence also suggests that depictions can have serious consequences. Television, according to a study done by Signorielli in 1990, entrenches the cognitive schema in children that women are happy when they are doing traditional gender roles like staying home to raise children and that men are more ambitious than women are.\n\nEarly television fathers were depicted as bumbling fathers in working-class families, for example, Homer Simpson (The Simpsons) or authoritative figures in suburban families, for example, Ward Cleaver (Leave It to Beaver). Over time, changing economic and political situations contributed to changes in family life. As women began to work outside the home and domestic gender roles were adjusted, the idea of the nuclear family changed. Fathers adapted to be more nurturing to their children and more participative in family and domestic roles. Fogel, a television media expert, refers to this as the \"new father;\" he is a mix of traditional masculinity and traits typically associated with mothers. Instead of simply being the breadwinner, the typical idea of the father has shifted to include traits associated with being a “good” father. This relies on both being supportive to his wife and to his children. The transition can be seen in the multi-generational family shown in \"Modern Family\"\".\" Jay Pritchett, the father on the show with two adult children, says \"90% of being a dad is just showing up.\" He represents the traditional idea of less involved parenting by the father. In comparison, Phil Dunphy, who has three adolescent children, describes his parenting style as \"peerenting,\" meaning he seeks to be both a peer and parent to his children. His more hands-on approach marks the transition from the father who just need to show up to the \"new\" father who is actively involved in his children's lives.\n\nThe traditional role of \"father\" in the household is evolving; fathers are now expected to embrace more hands-on duties with their children. The roles are shifting so much that there has been an increase in \"stay at home fathers\", compared to previous generations. Also, increases of positively portrayed stay at home fathers in the media have been indicated. Stay at home fathers have made appearances in television shows and documentaries. An increase in media presence can contribute to the understanding and support for men who choose to care for their children. This evolution of \"fatherhood\" shows the dynamic nature of parental roles. A few overarching themes in fatherhood were found in a study interviewing 32 men across the United States. These themes consist of fathers feeling emotional closeness with their children, positive reaction from others about being a stay at home fathers, and importance and pride in family work. The typical reasons behind becoming a stay at home father: wives high salaries, job “issues”, and wives being relocated for their jobs.\n\nDisneyland dads refers to fathers who are considered to be the nonresidential parent. However, any father can express this type of characteristic. \"Disneyland dads\" have the tendency to undertake recreational activities over real parental responsibilities that can include participating in their child's day-to-day activities. In other words, they represent the fun parent while leaving the \"residential parent\" to deal with child rearing. These dads can be permissive and fail to discipline their children properly. Richard Gilmore, a father and grandfather in \"Gilmore Girls\", is a splitting image of this. Richard is rich and tends to buy his daughter's and granddaughter's love and approval with his money, while his wife, Emily Gilmore takes on the role of the disciplinarian. Mothers can be classified as Disneyland parents also. According to Stewart, information on Disneyland moms is harder to come by given the fact that mothers are more likely to display nurturing behaviors when they are primary caregivers, leaving secondary primary caregiving to the fathers who fall back on more leisure activities.\n\nSusan Douglas and Meredith Michaels refer to \"new momism\" as shaping current Western motherhood. New momism introduces the myth of the perfect mother who assumes all the roles needed of her within the household, does so flawlessly, and emerges from the experience fulfilled and complete. Douglas and Michaels suggest that the media only superficially celebrates mothers by presenting standards, values, and practices that in reality place expectations on mothers that are impossible to reach. New momism is reinforced in the media through portrayals of perfect and unrealistic mothers, and through “news reports emphasizing the unspeakable tragedies that await children of mothers who dare deviate from the One True Path of Momism” according to Judith Stadtman Tucker. New momism also creates the false dichotomy of the “good” versus “bad” mother, and the media supplements viewers with the attitudes and practices that characterize both labels: the good mother is always in control, able to fulfill all responsibilities toward children and husband, while the bad mother is overwhelmed, disorganized, and lost among the chaos.\n\n“Mommy wars,\" as introduced by Nina Darnton in a June 1990 \"Newsweek \"article, represents the media-staged tensions between stay-at-home mothers and working mothers. Stay-at-home mothers criticize working mothers for abandoning their children and homes to build a personal career, while working mothers resent stay-at-home mothers both because of the time and attention they are able to devote to their children, and because of the notion that a mother is only \"good enough\" if she can devote all her time and attention to the children and household. Susan Podnieks argues that the \"mommy myth\", as well as the supposed battle between working and stay-at-home mothers, are circulated by news media and talk shows, sparking debates about the proper sphere of women. As a result, the general public believes that \"there is a bitter war in the suburban cul-de-sacs of the United States between the complacent minivan-driving stay-at-home moms and the overachieving soon-to-be-burnout working mothers who still think they can have it all.\" This leads to grouping mothers into rigid and rival categories, leading them to feel insecure about their mothering, and in turn leading them to devalue other mothers in order to elevate themselves.\n\nThe media mother police refers to the media's surveillance and policing of mothers (specifically famous mothers) by dissecting and evaluating their parenting practices. Susan Douglas and Meredith Michaels use the term to describe child care experts who engage in the practice of watching over famous mothers and judge their efforts, while Elizabeth Podnieks uses it to refer to reporters, the paparazzi, and all those involved within entertainment journalism who participate in maternal surveillance. The media mother police simultaneously reinforces \"The Mommy Myth\" by showcasing examples of perfect and airbrushed celebrity mothers, and also heightens the stigma of the \"bad\" mother by exposing the failures and debaucheries of certain celebrating mothers.\n\nThe depiction of single mothers in the media is crucial because it impacts children's views on parenthood. This topic became especially relevant after the 1990s. Between 1986 and 1989 there was a 19% increase in pregnancy for 15- to 17-year-olds, consequently the number of single mothers increased. In a study conducted by sociologist Mary Larson, participants were asked to view several soap operas and comment on the role of the single mother. The study consisted of 163 junior and senior high-school students in a rural-suburban community in Northern Illinois in 1993. The student body was 9% minority and had an average family income of $41,000. The students in the study declared that most soap operas depict the single mother as white upper middle class with a successful job. Participants also noted that coping with a job and having a child did not seem to be a problem for the mothers. Their children were allowed to attend social events and each woman had a dominant male figure who helped with the baby on a daily basis. After viewing the shows, participants were asked to answer several questions on single mothers. Most responses indicate a skewed perception of being a single mother. Most students did not believe single mothers were more likely to live in poverty and that most babies had a dominant male presence in their lives. Other scientists have determined that men are actually more commonly portrayed as single parents in prime time television. One study revealed that men outnumber women by three to one as being single parents. Additionally, women are more frequently portrayed as married in a home setting. Whereas single men never endure the conflict of balancing their work and family life, women are depicted as struggling to balance both.\n\nGiven the changing traditional structure of the American family, it would be suspected different family dynamics are depicted by different characters and themes. For example, one would expect television to encapsulate the different themes and qualities of the African American family that are a result of prejudice and discrimination. However, studies have shown that the television characteristics of people of color do not reveal the unique experiences of being African, Latino, Native American or Asian American, but rather represent the perceptions of the White producers. From the period of 1969–1982 African American families were almost never portrayed as husband, wife and children living together under one roof. Moreover, most families were highlighted as being \"poor and struggling\". These representations make it appear as though African Americans cannot care for their families accurately. As pressure increased on the industry to produce a more accurate portrayal of the nuclear African American family, shows such as \"The Cosby Show\", \"227\", and \"Charlie & Co\" became popular. The emergence of these shows created a TV culture that more accurately depicted an intact African American family. Unfortunately, data reveals that the same cannot be said for other minority families such as Latino Americans. \n\nIn 1984, the media portrayed Latinos as illegal aliens that were on the run. This wasn't an accurate representation of who they really were and the lifestyles they lived in reality (doctors, lawyers, husbands, wives, etc.). The study \"Latinwood and TV\" 2000 restated that Latino Americans were not accurately presented in the media. They were highly underrepresented and superficially/negatively illustrated on screen, usually characterized as nannies, gardeners, and servants. Just as there was an uproar about media not accurately representing African Americans families properly, there was a similar issue for Latino Americans. With this issue, came the emergence of successful Latino-themed shows such as \"Dora the Explorer\", \"George Lopez\", \"Ugly Betty\", and \"Wizards of Waverly Place.\" As media outlets started to present more authentic Latino representation, it gave way for these shows to make an appearance: \"Jane the Virgin\", \"Queen of the South\", \"One Day at a Time\", and \"On My Block\" which is a show that represents both Latino and African American families and their culture.\n\nOver time, television series have reflected the changing norms of real families. Viewers have regarded these television families as models of familial behavior despite the unrealistic nature of many television series.\n\nMedia expert Jennifer Fogel notes that families on television have evolved to focus more on strong marital partnerships, but many shows still focus on a traditional, patriarchal family. She suggests a number of different types of families that have been seen on television in the 21st century: parents adjusting to parenthood (e.g., Yes, Dear), dysfunctional yet loyal families (e.g., Arrested Development), and blended families (e.g., The New Adventures of Old Christine). For white families, television series have included single parenthood, divorced families, and multi-generational households. In comparison, minority families on television usually conform to nuclear family roles (e.g., George Lopez, Black-ish).\n\nIn an analysis of television shows, Dr. William Douglas found modern parent-child relationships to be judged as mutually respectful. Though both mothers and fathers regularly provide support for their children, mothers were particularly likely to behave in a supportive or nurturing manner. In dealing with conflict, television fathers are more likely to use strategies which include blaming, rejection, aggressive questioning, and joking. They are more focused on winning an argument than protecting the relationship. Television mothers are more likely to use strategies that include emphasizing commonalities and using empathy in dealing with conflict such that relational goals are promoted over winning the argument. In modern television families, both mothers and fathers are more likely to work outside the home. Douglas suggests that the modern television family is reflective of the modern family in their problems. He asserts families are now unable to construct a nurturing family environment, including establishment of lasting relationships and effective socialization of children, in both families on television and in reality.\n\nScharrer (2001a) conducted a quantitative study investigating masculine roles within the home, and looked at 136 episodes of 29 domestic sitcoms airing from the 1950s to the 1990s. Scharrer found an increasing tendency to portray fathers as foolish and less adept at child care than mothers. The study revealed that fathers were the butt of 60% of all jokes involving the father in the 1990s sitcoms compared to 30% in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s.\n\nFilms that take place in the 1950s often portray an “ideal family” consisting of a breadwinner husband, a homemaker wife, and their children. To an extent, this is a reflection of the times: upon the conclusion of World War II, there was an increased importance put on the home. Women were not expected to complete secondary education and instead were pushed towards finding a husband. The film Mona Lisa Smile depicts a female professor's struggle with these expectations that have been put both on herself and her students. Many of the professor's students drop out over the course of the film to become housewives and she ultimately fails at her mission of keeping her female students in school. This \"ideal family\" model of the 1950s is outdated and unrealistic in today's world, however the myth lives on. Continued media portrayal of this shapes public opinion and influences our beliefs.\n\nOver the past 20 years, more and more women have been abandoning the homemaker role in favor of a position in the workforce. There has been a distinct shift from the male-breadwinner model to more dual-earner and single-parent households, and that is not always reflected in film. The movie \"I Don't Know How She Does It\" shows a working mother trying to balance a demanding job as well as familial duties. The film \"Daddy Day Care\" is about a father that takes on the role of homemaker. However, these two films are far from the norm in terms of familial structure as seen in today's movies. The industry has yet to catch up to the current family climate completely, but films with non-conventional families are becoming more and more common.\n\nGayle Kaufman, a professor from Davidson College, explored the expanding social roles of men and women found on television in her article, \"The Portrayal of Men's Family Roles in Television Commercials.\" Through the use of empirical observations, Kaufman's research specifically focuses on the differences in the roles of mother and fathers portrayed by the media in national television commercials. Even though the roles of both men and women have expanded from the past, majority of the commercials were found to display traditional gender ideology. Gender differences found in commercials are prevalent.\n\nWomen were found to take on stereotypical roles in many types of commercials. With regards to housework, women were found to be significantly more likely to be shown doing housework than men: cooking, cleaning, washing dishes, and shopping. Now, analyzing the data more closely, the reader can find that 79–80% of all cleaning and shopping in commercials are performed by women. Women were also found to be more responsible for washing dishes at 93% compared to men. Kaufman believes that this finding is based on the socialization process. Information not shown by the table includes the detailed explanation of the actions of the individuals in the study. With cooking commercials, many times the men and children were shown to be passively waiting to be served by their spouse. In cases where no mother is present, the same stereotypical roles are shown to be passed to the daughter as the father and/or brothers are passively waiting. Also, many of the domestic activities done by males are usually very manly, according to Kaufman, like taking out the trash. However, she says that men seemed incompetent about it. There were also striking differences in other activities as well.\n\nWhen it came to interacting and spending time with children in commercials, men were found to be more likely than women to be with only boys. However, women were three times more likely to be seen with both boys and girls. Women were more likely to not only be with more children in commercials, they were more likely to take care of them as well. Compared to men’s 17.7%, women were 35.0% likely to be involved in some type of childcare activity (giving medicine, putting on bandages, etc.) in commercials. This finding was significant. Like mentioned earlier, men, were more likely to care for care for male children more than female children.\n\nHowever, men did surpass women in three activities with children. Contrary to popular belief, men were found to actually teach kids lessons or read to them more than women. The data showed a significant 41% for men and only 14% for women. Men were also found to be eating with children more than women in commercials.\n\nDavid Anderson and Mykol Hamilton’s research focused on the portrayal of fathers and mothers in children’s books and speculated on the implications of it in their 2005 article “Gender Role Stereotyping of Parents in Children’s Picture Books: The Invisible Father”. They empirically analyzed two hundred children's picture books. Out of the 139 books with parents in them. 64% of the books had mothers in them and 47.5% had fathers in them. There were sixty four books that had scenes in them with only mothers but no father scenes. Also, 19% of the books had father only scenes and no mother scenes. In general fathers were not only highly underrepresented in the children's books, but they were also not even mentioned as much as mothers.\n\nThe research also focused on the activities and emotions performed by parents in the books. They found that mothers were close to 10 times more likely to care for babies than fathers were. Mothers in the books performed every measure of nursing behavior studied by the researchers two times more than fathers. Emotionally, mothers expressed varying emotions at a greater rate than the fathers. This is contrary to the opinion of the researchers who believed that fathers would express greater amounts of overall anger than did mothers. This is not the case. The findings were significant that mothers were more likely than men to express happiness, cry, or basically have any type of emotion what so ever. Mothers were also found to actually discipline more than fathers in children's books.\n\nThe researchers use this to make a number of speculations. The authors use these findings to question the socialization process of our younger children and point out, what they think, is a glaring problem. Fathers from the data took a back seat in the lives of the children throughout these children's books. Anderson and Hamilton fear that these stereotypical portrayals socialize children during critical periods of early development in their lives. When these cognitive schema are formed it is hard to change them as time goes on. Children, according to the researchers, will expect caregiving from the mothers and less from the fathers who seem almost invisible.\n\nA content analysis of women's magazines by both Keller (1994) and Douglas and Michaels (2004) revealed that the articles and ads within those magazines still reinforced traditional roles of motherhood, such as caring only for children and household tasks.\n\nWomen's magazines also encourage narrow understandings of motherhood through their misrepresentation of working mothers. Smith (2001) found that articles about working mothers and daycare between 1987 and 1997 usually portrayed working mothers in a negative light, discrediting women's belonging to the public sphere (the workplace) and reaffirming their role within the private sphere (the home).\n\nA study conducted by Johnston and Swanson (2003) that analyzed 1998 and 1999 issues of women's and parenting magazines found that employed mothers were largely underrepresented compared to at-home mothers: working mothers were present in 12% of all mother-related text units as opposed to 88% for at-home mothers.\n\nA study based in Hong Kong set out to examine “tween\" girls in order to determine the media's influence on their perception of gender and identity roles. These girls, ages 8–12, were asked to take images from the media to illustrate what they thought girls and women should or should not do. The sources of media used by the girls in the study included images from: newspapers, magazines, photos of advertisements (in subways, elevators, etc.), television, and Internet. The main goal of this was to find how the media influences the perception of women in the eyes of a \"tween\" girl. Previous studies have shown that although children might not perform behaviors the media characterizes as “normal” right away, they store these perceptions and recall them during “real life situations”.\n\nThe interviewers asked the tweens two questions and the interviewee’s were asked to reference a digital image they were asked to have captured. The girls were first asked how women/girls should or should not be. The responses were ultimately categorized under five major themes of how women and girls should act:\nThe most popular responses in regards to personality were: be yourself, be brave, and be gentle. Skills and vocation responses reflected what jobs and skills a woman should have. Housekeeping was regarded as a good skill to have because boys have poor housekeeping skills. Appearance responses included what girls should look like, and how they should not (for example, girls should be presentable not sloppy). Under the category of healthy and natural interviewee’s were speaking of exercise, strength, and drug free lifestyles. Among the comments made by interviewee’s about manners and relationships were those about self-control, being conservative in sexual relationships, and self-representation in the public sphere. The second thing the girls were asked was what women should or should not do. The responses were categorized into themes, stated in order of most responses in a given category to least responses in a given category: 1) appearance, 2) health and safety, 3) relationships, 4) caring for people and environment, 5) work and others.\n\nThe conclusions made from this study were as follows. Tweens' perceptions of gender and identity roles mostly come from their role models. Tweens have conservative attitudes toward sexuality, despite racy advertisements. Tweens heavily favor natural beauty and reject practices that aim to reduce weight drastically. Tweens rejected and labeled sexy appearance and pre-marital sex as inappropriate. This study showed the perceptions tween girls had as a result of the media, giving proper insight into how young girls envision adults, including mothers in the media.\n\nRecent films and television shows that challenge the traditional family ideal have been critically acclaimed and celebrated. A non-traditional family structure is becoming more and more common in media. However, some of the most popular examples have been the topic of debate.\n\nThe 2010 film \"The Kids Are All Right\" depicts a same-sex couple, Jules and Nic, and their trials in raising two children. The film was very well-received, garnering four Oscar nominations. Critics applauded the movie for its depiction of a \"realistic\" lesbian couple, with Roger Ebert saying: \"The Kids Are All Right centers on a lesbian marriage, but is not about one. It's a film about marriage itself, an institution with challenges that are universal.” However, the family structure in the film is a traditional one: Nic is the breadwinner and Jules is the homemaker. This dynamic is a source of tension throughout the movie and is a major obstacle in their relationship. The film is regarded as progressive while at the same time criticized for the archaic model of family.\n\nTelevision has a similar example in \"Modern Family\". Premiering in 2009 and chronicling three families portraying varying degrees social norms, \"Modern Family\" has received awards including 21 Emmys. It has also been the subject of criticism in term of familial portrayal. Phil Dunphy, a father on the show, is portrayed as foolish and easily outmaneuvered by both his wife and children. Claire, his wife, is an uptight stay-at-home mother who has become bored in her role in the family. Many critics have pointed out that both mothers on the show are not employed. In season 5 of the show Claire did return to work after her children had matured. Although on the surface, Modern Family looks like a fresh perspective on today's family environment, it has its shortcomings. The traditional model of family can be seen in the Dunphy household despite the show's promise of a modern family.\n\nSociety usually look to views of family planning on the social media and other raw media forms to develop a vauge notion,idea or plan of how a perfect family should be and act like. Over time, portrayals of both mothers and fathers in the media have adjusted to reflect changing familial norms. Both television and movies have reflected changes from the traditional family, though the nuclear family is still very present. Advertisements, children's books, and magazines still consistently represent traditional gender norms. Controversies have emerged in parental portrayals that seem to challenge traditional roles but, in reality, reinforce them.\n\n"}
{"id": "23433827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23433827", "title": "Public holidays in Djibouti", "text": "Public holidays in Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of public holidays in Djibouti. The country uses two official calendar systems: the Gregorian calendar primarily, and the Islamic lunar calendar for religious holidays. \n\n"}
{"id": "32267887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32267887", "title": "Punu language", "text": "Punu language\n\nPunu is a Bantu language spoken in Gabon and the Republic of Congo. Irimba is classified as a dialect, but may be relexified from a non-Bantu source.\n"}
{"id": "1849477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849477", "title": "Qazi Hussain Ahmad", "text": "Qazi Hussain Ahmad\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad (; born 12 January 1938 – 6 January 2013) was an Islamic scholar, clergyman, democracy activist, and former \"Emir\" of \"Jamaat-e-Islami\", the socially conservative Islamist political party in Pakistan.\n\nHe was a strong critic of and was widely known for his opposition to the United States' participation in the war against the Taliban in neighbouring Afghanistan.\n\nQazi was born in 1938 in the house of \"Maulana Qazi Muhammad Abdul Rab\" at Ziarat Kaka Sahib, Nowshera District, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.\n\nA teacher by profession, Maulana was appointed as the President of Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Hind for its Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa branch before 1947. Qazi Hussain Ahmed was the youngest among his ten siblings.\n\nAfter having completed early education at home, Qazi Hussain Ahmad was admitted to Islamia College, Peshawar and got his Master of Science (MSc) degree in Geography from Peshawar University. He served as a lecturer at Jehanzeb College Swat for three years, teaching at the graduate level. After that, he started his own business. He was elected as Vice-President, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (Provincial) Chamber of commerce and industry. Living in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa gave him some familiarity with political affairs in neighboring Afghanistan.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmed had two sons (Asif Luqman Qazi and Anas Farhan Qazi) and two daughters. His wife and children all are Jamaat-e-Islami activists. He spoke Urdu, English, Arabic, Persian, in addition to his native tongue, Pashto. He was a great admirer of the poet Allama Muhammad Iqbal and employed quotes from both Iqbal's Urdu and Persian poetry in his speeches and conversations.\n\nHis association with the \"Islamic Movement\" started in his school days when he first joined Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba, Pakistan. He became member of Jamaat-e-Islami in 1970 and was elected to the office of President of its Peshawar branch. He served Jamaat-e-Islami as Secretary and then Ameer of its Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provincial branch. After the resignation of Maulana Naeem Siddiqui, he was promoted to the office of Secretary General, Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan in 1978. and then elected as Ameer (Chief) of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan in 1987, continued to serve in that capacity, getting re-elected four more times (1992, 1994, 1999 and 2003). In 2008, Syed Munawwar Hasan was elected to head Jamaat-e-Islami, when Qazi Hussain Ahmad chose not to run for the office. Qazi Hussain Ahmad remained head of Jamaat-e-Islami for nearly 22 years. \n\nIn the Parliament of Pakistan, he also served as the parliamentary leader of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal.\n\nWithin Pakistan, he was a patron of organisations such as Pasban and founder of Shabab e Milli, youth wing of Jamaat-e-Islami.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad was first elected as member of the Senate of Pakistan in 1986 for a term of six years. He was re-elected for that position in March 1992. To protest against the corrupt political system, he resigned as a Senator in 1996. He was elected as a Member of National Assembly in the Pakistani general election, 2002 from his native town, Nowshera.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad traveled abroad widely to represent the Jamaat at the international forums, lead goodwill missions, and in a personal capacity to mediate in issues concerning Muslims, such as the Iran-Iraq war and the Persian Gulf War, the Balkan (Bosnia) crisis and the post-Soviet power struggle in Afghanistan. Even before the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, Qazi Hussain Ahmad was in close contact with Afghan mujahideen and met with top Afghan leaders. He helped build support in Pakistan for the movement and introduce the Afghan jihad to the outside world.\n\nHe was a staunch supporter of the Kashmiri insurgency against India and the initiator of the Kashmir Solidarity Day.\n\nOn 20 July 1996, Qazi Hussain Ahmad announced to start protests against the government alleging corruption. Qazi Hussain resigned from the senate on 27 September and announced to start a long march against the Benazir's government. Protests started on 27 October 1996 by Jamaat e Islami and the opposition parties. On 4 November 1996, Benazir Bhutto's government was dismissed by President Farooq Leghari primarily because of corruption.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad died on 6 January 2013 at one of his son's house in Islamabad, Pakistan. The cause of his death was heart attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "46408829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46408829", "title": "Russian criminal tattoos", "text": "Russian criminal tattoos\n\nDuring the 20th century in the Soviet Union there was a strong culture of tattoos being used to indicate one's criminal career and rank within Russian criminal and prison communities. Specifically for those imprisoned under the Gulag system of the Soviet era, the tattoos served to differentiate between who was an authority or thief in law, and who was a political prisoner.\n\nThe practice grew in the 1930s, peaking in the 1950s and declining in popularity in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe branding of criminals was practised in Russia long before tattooing was customary, and was banned in 1863. In the 19th century, a \"pricked\" cross on the left hand was often used to identify deserters from the army, and up until 1846, criminals sentenced to hard labour were branded \"VOR\" (\"thief\"), the letters on the forehead and cheeks. Brands were also applied to the shoulder blade and the right forearm, in three categories; \"SK\" for \"Ssylno-Katorzhny\" (hard labour convict), \"SP\" for \"Ssylno-Poselenets\" (hard labour deportee) and \"B\" for \"Begly\" (escapee). In 1846, VOR was replaced by \"KAT\"; the first three letters of the word for \"hard labour convict\" or \"katorzhnik\".\n\nIn the 1930s, Russian criminal castes began to emerge, such as the \"Masti\" (suits) and the \"Vory v Zakone\" or \"Blatnye\" (authoritative thieves), and with that a tattoo culture to define rank and reputation. Up until World War II, any tattoo could denote a professional criminal, the only exception being tattoos on sailors.\n\nUnder the Gulag system of the Soviet era, laws that were implemented in mid-1940 allowed short prison sentences to be given to those convicted of petty theft, hooliganism, or labor discipline infractions. This led to an increase in the prison population during and after World War II. By January 1941, the Gulag workforce had increased by approximately 300,000 prisoners. Tattoos served to differentiate between an authority or \"thief in law\", and the many hundreds of thousands of political prisoners who were imprisoned during and shortly after World War Two for crimes not considered those of a \"Vor\" (thief).\n\nSome of the motifs came from English sailor tattoos, such as the flying tall ships, a heart pierced by a dagger, anchors, a serpent-entwined heart or a tiger baring its teeth.\n\nA thief's collection of tattoos represents his \"suit\" (\"mast\"), which indicates his status within the community of thieves and his control over other thieves within the thieves' law. In Russian criminal jargon or \"Fenya\" (феня), a full set of tattoos is known as \"frak s ordenami\" (a tailcoat with decorations). The tattoos show a \"service record\" of achievements and failures, prison sentences and the type of work a criminal does. They might also represent his \"thief's family\", naming others within hearts or with the traditional tomcat image. Misappropriation of the tattoos of a \"legitimate thief\" could be punished by death, or the prisoner would be forced to remove them themselves \"with a knife, sandpaper, a shard of glass or a lump of brick\".\n\nAfter the war a schism occurred in the criminal world. Many convicts had fought in penal units, in contravention of the thieves' code that no thief should serve in the military or cooperate with authorities in any way. Many legitimate thieves found themselves demoted to \"frayer\" (outsider), \"muzhik\" (peasant), or \"suka\" (traitor, a bitch). This was part of a power struggle; with limited resources in prison, outlawing the \"bitches\" (\"suki\") allowed the legitimate thieves to take more for themselves.\n\nTattoos were modified and new designs appeared to distinguish between the two groups. The dagger piercing a heart was modified, adding an arrow: this tattoo indicated a legitimate thief and his desire to seek vengeance against those who had violated the thieves' code. The compass rose became an indicator of aggression to prison officials and the \"bitches\", indicating the vow that \"I will never wear epaulettes\" and hatred towards those who had served in the Soviet Army. Secret acronyms were created by legitimate thieves that the \"bitches\" wouldn't recognise, such as SLON (lit. \"elephant\"), meaning \"Suki Lyubyat Ostry Nozh\" (\"Bitches love a sharp knife\").\n\nIn the 1950s Nikita Khrushchev declared a policy for the eradication of criminality from Soviet society. Along with propaganda denouncing the \"traditional thief\" that had grown in popularity in Russian culture, punishments in the prisons intensified for anyone that identified as a legitimate thief, including beatings and torture. As a response to this persecution, the thieves' laws were intensified and the punishment for prisoners wearing unearned tattoos increased from removal to rape and murder.\n\nBy the 1970s, the intensification of the thieves' laws had resulted in reprisals against the legitimate thieves, orchestrated by prison authorities who would often throw a legitimate thief into cells with prisoners they had punished or raped. To reduce tensions, criminal leaders outlawed rites of passage and outlawed rape as a punishment. Fights between inmates were outlawed and conflicts were to be resolved through mediation by senior thieves. Additionally, a fashion for tattooing had spread through juvenile prisons, increasing the number of inmates with \"illegitimate\" tattoos. This ubiquity along with the reduction in violence meant that the \"criminal authorities\" stopped punishing \"unearned\" tattoos.\n\nIn 1985, perestroika and the new increase in tattoo parlours made tattooing fashionable, and further diluted the status of tattoos as a solely criminal attribute.\n\nThe tattooists, or \"kol'shchiki\" (prickers), were held in high regard. Tattoo needles can be referred to as \"peshnya\" (ice pick), \"pchyolka\" (bee), \"shpora\" (spur), or \"shilo\" (sting), while the tattoo machine can be referred to as \"mashinka\" (little machine) or \"bormashina\" (dentist's drill), and the ink is referred to as either \"mazut\" (fuel oil) or \"gryaz\" (dirt). The tattoos themselves were referred to as a \"reklama\" (advertising), \"regalka\" (regalia), \"kleimo\" (brand), or \"rospis\" (painting).\n\nCommon designs and themes grew over the years, often having different meanings depending on the location of the tattoo. The imagery often does not literally mean what it is depicting—for example, tattoos displaying Nazi imagery represent a rejection of authority rather than an adherence to Nazism. Combinations of imagery, such as a rose, barbed wire and a dagger, form combined meanings. According to lexicographer Alexei Plutser-Sarno, the tattoos become the only \"real aspects of his life\". They are a symbol of the owner's commitment to war against the non-thief, the police (\"menty\"), and the \"bitch\" (\"suka\"). The environment in the Soviet era was one of heavy visual propaganda, and the tattoos are a reaction to that, and a \"grin at authority\" (\"oskal na vlast\"), often directly parodying official Soviet slogans with Communist Party leaders often depicted as devils, donkeys, or pigs.\n\nA thief's collection of tattoos represent his \"suit\" (\"mast\"), which indicates his status within the community of thieves and his control over other thieves within the thieves' law. They might also represent his \"thief's family\", naming others within hearts or with the traditional tom cat image.\n\n\nTattoos on the hands and fingers were common, and for women, palm tattoos showing insults were popular in the 1940s and 50s.\n\nThere are tattoos that are forcibly applied to signify \"demotion\" (\"razzhalovanie\"). These may depict sexual acts, and are designed to lower the owner in the eyes of other prisoners and draw harsh treatment from them. These can be applied to those convicted of sexual crimes, those who have not paid a debt, stool pigeons (\"ssuchenye\"), stooges (\"chukhany\"), and signify that the owner is expelled from the privileged section of a thieves society and are \"untouchables\" (nepriskasaemye/chushki). Other thieves must not accept anything from them or be considered \"infected\" (\"zakontachit'sya\"). As a thief is \"born\" with his tattoos, they can also be used to signify his \"death\" and new status as an \"untouchable\". Even established thieves could be demoted, if, for example, they lost a card game and failed to honor their bets.\n\n"}
{"id": "29410217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29410217", "title": "Sakuddei", "text": "Sakuddei\n\nThe Sakuddei or Sabiroet people are an ethnic group, one of at least eleven, on the island of Siberut, Indonesia. Siberut is the northernmost of the Mentawai Islands which are located to the west off the coast of Sumatra. The Sakuddei live in south-central Siberut in an egalitarian society, cut off from the outside world. They speak a dialect of the Malayo-Polynesian Mentawai language.\n\nTheir society has been described as classless, egalitarian, without leadership and warfare and with equality among men and women. They are described as living in peaceful harmony with their environment and with other groups. According to Bakker (2007), the Sakuddei have commonly avoided modernization campaigns by retreating into Siberut's interior.\n\nThrough known history, since the missionaries started conversion of indigenous people into Christianity, the ethnographic profile of the people of Siberut has been closely observed by many anthropologists. The earliest record of the island people is by Sir Thomas Raffles, who after visiting the island in 1821, commented “I made further discoveries in these Islands, where I found a population more likable still and, if possible, still more ingenuous. If I continue in this direction, I may expect somewhere to find the \"Garden of Eden\", and descendants of our first parents.\" The first conversion of the indigenous people was started by the Italian Missionaries in 1912, though earlier efforts made from 1911 had resulted in the murder of the missionary named Reverend Mr. Lett in 1916. This is the first reported effort at elimination of the local ethnic culture of shamanism. Some Catholic priests understood the nuances of ethnic culture and adopted many of the ethnic customs such as wearing beads while offering sermons during mass. However, in 1917, J.F.K. Hansen, the Dutch Army Captain, was critical of the pagan customs of the local people and wondered how this custom could be discouraged. \n\nIn the early 1990s, plans were afoot to develop the rain forests of the Mentawai Islands where the indigenous people of Siberut, the Sakuddei, one of the few Siberut clans live, into a palm oil plantation, as a commercial proposition. The Government of Indonesia has also not been averse to this conversion since palm oil, an imported item, could be produced on a large scale locally, which would save foreign exchange and supplement the local economy of the country. The district administration at one stage, in the 1980s, had even ordered discontinuing the shamanistic rites and forcible possession of the ethnic paraphernalia of shamanism, which was later stopped. However, in recent years, with international publicity to the local ethnic people, through various media channels, the area where the Sakuddei live has attracted tourist influx, which is now identified as an economic benefit. \n\nIn spite of efforts by various international agencies to influence decision making on encroaching civilization of local ethnic groups, a Philippines timber company has been granted a logging concession in their area, which is threatening their distinctive way of life. All this is happening in spite of the area having been declared as a \"Biosphere Reserve\" by UNESCO, in 1981. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is persisting with its conservative efforts in association with Andalas University of West Sumatra \"to study and monitor socioeconomic and biotic conditions in Siberut and the rest of Mentawai\".\n\nBisht and Bankoti (2004) state that there are at least 11 culturally different communities on Siberut Island. The Leiden University anthropologist, Reimar Schefold, spent several years living on Siberut amongst the Sakuddei. According to Schefold, \"Everything from people to pigs, rocks to weather, has its own spirit which is quite separate from its 'host' and is free to wander as it wishes. That's why you see that everybody has a different pattern of tattoos -- they want to make sure that their spirit can recognize the right body when it comes back from its nightly travels.\" However, winds of change is affecting the younger generation of Sakuddeis' clan as observed by one of their elderly leader, known as \"rimata\", who said: \nTheir traditional house, an \"uma longhouse\", is built on stilts. This traditional house, located along the river banks, is where formal ceremonies known as \"punen\" are held, when the entire clan assemble here. However, under normal circumstances the \"rimata\" and his immediate family reside in the \"uma\", which are distinct from the habitats developed by the Dutch as thickly populated ghettos during their colonial rule.\n\nGenerally, the lay out plan of \"Uma\", the building traditionally common to the people living in Siberut, has been elaborated by Reimar Schefold, as a three part structure with multiple floors. The gables slant outwards with a number of finials. It has outward sloping walls. The roof appears in the shape of a saddle and the structure is built with timber with a degree of difference between the roof and the tip. Practical and social reasons, aesthetic values, symbolic representations are the main attributes of these structures. It is also said that many a times the symbolism pervades the design of the building.\n\nIn 1980, Jowa I. Kis-Jovak noted that during adolescence, some Sakuddei boys build themselves a special house.\n"}
{"id": "25549086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25549086", "title": "Sectoral output", "text": "Sectoral output\n\nSectoral output for an industry or combination of industries (\"sector\") is the value of the sector's gross output minus the value of shipments within the sector from one establishment to another. \nValue here is measured for a specified time period and usually in units of nominal money. It may be converted to constant units by multiplying by a price index to adjust for changes in prices over time and changes in quality of the goods and services produced.\nA sectoral output measure is conceptually different from measures of gross output or value-added output. Gross output for the sector consists of sales, or receipts, and other operating income, plus commodity taxes and changes in inventories. Value-added measures exclude the value of intermediate inputs such as material, energy, and services, whether from the same industry or others. Thus gross output is larger than sectoral output which is larger than value-added output.\nSectoral output is the measure of output used in \"KLEMS\" multifactor measures of productivity, which attempt to account for all direct inputs to production: capital services (K), labor services (L), energy (E), materials purchased (M), and services purchased (S)\nWhen calculating labor productivity, a value-added measure of output should be used to avoid counting other inputs (like purchased materials) as if they were created by the labor and capital applied within the sector.\nThe definition of the sectoral output has been attributed to Frank M. Gollop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30857433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857433", "title": "Sergei Shchukin", "text": "Sergei Shchukin\n\nSergei Ivanovich Shchukin (; 27 May 1854 – 10 January 1936) was a Russian businessman who became an art collector, mainly of French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art.\n\nSergei Ivanovich Shchukin was born on 27 May 1854 in Moscow, one of ten children of Ivan Vassilievitch Shchukin, a self-made Moscow merchant, and his wife Ekaterina Shchukin, née Botkin, the daughter of an established family of merchants. I.V. Shchukin and Sons Trading Company became one of the largest manufacturing and wholesale companies in Russia.\n\nThere were several art collectors in the Shchukin family. Sergei's brother Pyotr Shchukin built an important collection of Russian ancient art and artifacts and owned several impressionist masterpieces, while his brother Dimitri Shchukin assembled \"Moscow's best collection of Old Masters\" that eventually entered the Pushkin Museum. Another brother, Ivan, also collected art.\n\nShchukin made his first art purchases following a trip to Paris in 1897, when he bought his first Monet. He later bought numerous works to a total of 258 paintings decorating the walls of his palatial home in Moscow.\n\nBy 1914, Shchukin owned thirteen Monet paintings, including the iconic \"\" and the smaller but complete version of \"Picnic\", three by Renoir, eight by Cézanne, including \"Carnival\" (), four by Van Gogh, including the \"Portrait of Dr. Felix Rey\" (but the most famous Van Gogh paintings in Russia, \"Prison Courtyard\" and \"The Red Vineyard\", were purchased by Shchukin's friend and competitor, Ivan Abramovitch Morozov), sixteen by Gauguin of the Tahitian period, which hanged in his dining room in the manner of an orthodox iconostasis), seven by Henri Rousseau, sixteen by Derain, eight by Albert Marquet, and two by Dethomas. \n\nShchukin was particularly notable for his long association with Matisse, who decorated his mansion and created one of his iconic paintings, \"La Danse\", specially for Shchukin. \"La Danse\" is commonly recognized as \"a key point of (Matisse's) career and in the development of modern painting\". Henri Matisse created one of his major works \"La Danse\" for Shchukin as part of a two painting commission, the other important painting being Music, 1910. An earlier version of \"La Danse\" (1909) is in the collection of The Museum of Modern Art in New York City.\nThe collection also featured fifty choice works by Pablo Picasso, including most of his earliest Cubist works, such as \"Three Women\" and major landscapes, but some key pieces of the Blue and Rose periods as well. In 1909, Shchukin opened his home on Sundays for public viewings, introducing French avant-garde painting to the Moscovites. \n\nAfter the 1917 Revolution, the government appropriated his collection (decree of the Council of the people commissioners, signed Lenin, November 8, 1918) while Shchukin escaped to Paris, where he died in 1936. His mansion in Moscow became the State Museum of New Western Art (Государственный Музей нового западного искусствa, section I), the section II being the mansion and collection of the other famous Russian patron Ivan Morozov. Eventually (1928), the two sections were merged and exhibited in the former Ivan Morozov mansion at Prechistenka, 21. In 1948 the State Museum of New Western Art was closed down by a decree signed by Stalin due to its allegedly bourgeois, cosmopolitan and wrongly oriented artworks. The two collections were randomly divided between the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts and the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg.\n\nShchukin died on 10 January 1936 in Paris.\n\nIrina Antonova, Director of the Pushkin Museum, once remarked about Shchukin: \"He started to collect unpopular art, which was snubbed by the Louvre and other museums. It was his personal taste. Perhaps he heard foreshocks that would change the world. Such a collector could appear only in a country that awaited a revolution. He collected art that prefigured the global cataclysms\".\nIn the autumn of 2016, the exhibibition \"Icônes de l'art moderne. La collection Chtchoukine\", opened at \"Fondation Louis Vuitton\" in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "3391403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3391403", "title": "Silver rush", "text": "Silver rush\n\nA silver rush is the silver-mining equivalent of a gold rush, where the discovery of silver-bearing ore sparks a mass migration of individuals seeking wealth in the new mining region.\n\nNotable silver rushes have taken place in Mexico, Argentina, the United States (Colorado, Nevada, California, Utah), and Canada (Cobalt, Ontario, and the Kootenay district of British Columbia). Several famous tourist towns owe their existence to silver rushes.\n\nHistorically there were other \"silver rushes\", such as on the Attic peninsula near Athens, Greece, thousands of years ago. The silver mines of Laurion became famous for their exploitation and helped fund the new state of Athens. The term is also widely applied to the New World. Despite the larger-than-life image of the gold rush, the history of towns and industry in the North American West revolves much more around silver. This is partly because of the other minerals usually found with it – lead, tin, copper – and the more complicated smelting process associated with it because of the chemical complexity of its ores (usually galena). The line between a smelter town and a silver mining town is very slim in many cases, although copper mining towns typically also have large smelters (such as Anaconda, Montana) and industrial complexes associated with them. \n\nThe pursuit for silver often opens up other mineral deposits for development because of the variety of other useful ores that occur with it, especially in galena, its most common natural form. Hence the Boundary Country of British Columbia, just across the international border from Spokane, Washington, had a strong mining and smelting economy based on the non-silver components of galena, and the nearby city of Trail remains a functioning smelter town (long after the long-established industrial complex of the Boundary District has faded into a ghost town).\n\nHardrock mines tend to last longer than placer gold mines, and so silver mining towns last longer and have more time to develop than placer gold rush towns, which often peak within a few years. Silver mining towns typically last a few decades, with time to develop the opulence and luxury that only left the slightest traces in placer gold-fevered places such as Dawson City in the Klondike. By contrast, \"silver cities\" like Aspen, Colorado, and Nelson, British Columbia, often survived as functioning economies into the era of modernization and the advent of tourism (which sometimes proves richer than any silver mine).\n\nBritish Columbia\n\nOntario\n\n\n\nSonora\n\nZacatecas\n\nSee \"Silver mining in the United States\"\n\nCalifornia\n\nColorado (see \"Silver mining in Colorado\")\n\nNevada (See \"Silver mining in Nevada\")\nUtah\n\n"}
{"id": "22553918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22553918", "title": "Telefol people", "text": "Telefol people\n\nThe Telefol people are an ethnic group in the Sandaun Province of Papua New Guinea.\n\nTelefol history starts with the \"Old Woman\" (Afek) traveling through the land that is now the Eliptaman valley. She, as told through their creation stories, founded the Telefolip, the most sacred of Yolam Houses or Haus Tambaran in the Star Mountains Region about 300 years ago. Myth has it that there is an underground tunnel system between Mount Fubilan, the Yolam House at Bultem and the Telefolip exists, and that is how shell money and other valuable items came to the Telefol.\n\nThe Telefol defeated the Telefol-speaking Iligimin people after the Iligimin people razed the Telefolip in the 19th century. The Telefol then proceeded to settle their lands.\n\nThey then went on to defeat the Untou people, ritualistically cannibalizing the adults and absorbing the children into their group.\n\nOnce the Untoumin were annihilated, the Telefolmin and Miyanmin would sometimes raid each other until the later 1950s, when pacification occurred.\n\nThe Telefol were part of a ritual system encompassing all of the Min peoples. They were acknowledged by the Min as being at the highest level of sacred knowledge, and groups such as the Baktaman were at the lowest level. The Telefolmins' level may have been matched by the Urapmin.\n\nThe Telefol possess a ubiquitous accessory called the bilum. Young children are introduced to the skills of bilum-making.\n\nMagalim, a masalai or bush spirit of great significance to the Telefol is active at the fringes of Telefol consciousness. He is known by various names such as Aanang Kayaak, Tenum Misim, Bagan Kayaak. He is a \"boss\" of all things wild and of the forests. Magalim takes many forms: a snake, a dog, an overly generous European, a headless European, and a four glowing-eyed Ok Tedi worker who ran speedily over the landscape \n\nThe Telefol language's base-27 counting system is mapped onto the body by counting each of the following: the left pinky to the left thumb (1-5); the wrist, lower arm, elbow, upper arm, and shoulder (6-10); the side of the neck, ear, and left eye (11-13); the nose (14); and the right eye to the right pinky (15-27; as for 1-14 but mirrored and in reverse order).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1923313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923313", "title": "The Tanglin Club", "text": "The Tanglin Club\n\nThe Tanglin Club is one of the most prominent and prestigious social clubs in Singapore. As of end 2009 the club had an active membership of 7,810, comprising approximately 70 different nationalities. Its clubhouse is located off Stevens Road, near the centre of town in Singapore. The club's facilities include four restaurants, five bars, several function rooms, a cinema/theatrette, two libraries, and extensive sports and recreation facilities including two swimming pools, a gymnasium, a four-table billiards room, four outdoor and two indoor tennis courts, six single and two jumbo double squash courts and a large roof-top lawn bowls green. The Club's sports sections offer external activities such as scuba diving and golf, and a new sports complex was completed in 2008.\n\nThe Tanglin Club was founded in 1865. Its founding President was Singapore's first Police Commissioner, Thomas Dunman.\n\nThe Tanglin Club, one of Singapore's most prestigious and prominent social clubs, was founded in 1865 to cater to the social and recreational needs of locally based British officials and expatriates. That year, an interim committee was formed, and it comprised Thomas Dunman (President), Herbert Buchanan (Vice-President), Lancelot C. Masfen, Jos. M. Webster, William Mulholland, Walter Oldham, Edwin A. G. C. Cooke and John R. Forrester. Although race was not stipulated as a criterion for membership, only Europeans were admitted. Club members however, were mainly British. While the exact foundation date of The Tanglin Club is uncertain, it is suspected that the date which had been determined by The Tanglin Club Centenary Celebrations Committee in 1865 was the most convenient day to hold the celebrations. Two letters, which appeared in the Singapore Daily Times on 11 and 13 November 1865, allude to the formation of the club, and that in October 1865, legal documents show without doubt this club to be The Tanglin Club.\n\nOn 26 June 1866, a property was purchased in the District of Claymore from Arthur Hughes de Wind for 600 dollars. In December 1866, the trustees of the club borrowed 5,000 Spanish dollars to build a clubhouse with bowling alleys, billiards rooms and stables. \n\nIt is quite a mystery to why the club was named ‘Tanglin’, as there is no authority defining the origin or meaning of ‘Tanglin’. There exists, however, an \"asok\" or \"asoka\" tree related to the saraca tree which is recorded In Malay, although, the Malays generally refer to this native species as \"gapis\", \"talan\", \"tengalan\" or \"tanglin\". Sacred among the Hindus and particularly sacred to the Buddhists as being the tree under which the Buddha was born, this beautiful flowering tree with golden-orange flowers and deep purple pods up to twelve inches long is not common in present-day Singapore.\n\nAnother derivative for Tanglin may be a corruption of the Chinese words \"tang ling\" – \"tang\" meaning ‘eastern side’, and \"ling\" ‘a small hill’. In the 1860s, there were plenty of hills in the districts of Tanglin and Claymore – Nassim Hill, Mount Elizabeth, Cairnhill, Claymore Hill and Goodwood Hill.\n\nWhile it may never be known how the name ‘Tanglin’ originated, but as there are many places in Malaysia named after trees, it is possible that the club was named after the tree of the same name – perhaps one was growing on the very spot where the clubhouse stood.\n\nAbout two years after its founding, the club’s management committee was unable to repay the first instalment of 2,000 Spanish dollars, which was due on 30 November 1868. The costs of construction of the clubhouse and the provision of amenities combined with the expenses involved in running the club must have placed a tremendous burden on its financial resources. The financial strain was made worse when the second instalment of the principal mortgage sum was due on 30 November 1871; the club was again unable to pay both that and the sum of 2,000 dollars.\n\nTen years after the loan of 5,000 dollars was drawn, the club could not afford to repay any of the principal sum borrowed. Even the staff’s wages were left unpaid.\n\nAn extraordinary general meeting of the club was then called on 20 June 1876 to resolve the club’s indebtedness. The meeting passed four resolutions, including appointing a committee to enquire and report to an adjournment of this meeting whether any person will advance 5,000 dollars on a mortgage of the club, and that a Member be appointed to purchase the property and re-mortgage the whole property to the new mortgage. No records of subsequent meetings are available but it is evident that The Tanglin Club literally went under the hammer.\n\nNevertheless, the club continued to function notwithstanding the charge and conveyance of its property, but likely only so because of the somewhat complex financial arrangement that had been devised to permit the continued use of the club and its facilities by its members. The saga of the original loan of 5,000 dollars continued until nearly the turn of the last century when the club’s membership numbered around two hundred. In 1899, the club’s indebtedness arising from this loan was finally totally discharged.\n\nBy the 1890s, the Claymore district had evolved into a prestigious district occupied by many prominent European residents. During the construction of the German Teutonia Club (present-day Goodwood Park Hotel), The Tanglin Club accommodated the Teutonia members. When the palatial Teutonia Club was completed in 1900, it quickly overshadowed the old and dismal looking The Tanglin Club. The Tanglin Club's German membership had dwindled from a strong number of 236 a decade ago to 181 in 1911. When World War I broke out in 1914, Teutonia Club was declared an enemy property.\n\nSeveral years after the end of the First World War in the early 1920s, The Tanglin Club purchased additional blocks of land. However, the good fortune of the Club was short-lived towards the end of the 1920s. The Great Depression had begun, and the finances of the club were severely strained.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, The Tanglin Club was used by the Japanese army as a club for their officers. The club was also used as a base for their propaganda unit as well as their storage area for rations and weapons. After the Japanese surrender, The Tanglin Club came under the management of the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes (NAAFI) until March 1946. It was not until 1 September 1946 that the club was informally reopened.\n\nThe men who gathered in the dining room of the Singapore Club on 21 May 1946 faced a daunting task – to reinstate The Tanglin Club, an institution founded seventy-five years earlier as a premier establishment – like the ‘forty good men and true’ who had met in 1865. The dedication of the post-war committee paid off; despite the difficulties faced, the club reopened informally on 1 September 1946, with 182 Ordinary Members, including 127 pre-war registered members, 23 lady members and provision for up to 300 service members.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the club consolidated its finances and continued to build up its membership. By September 1950, the membership stood at 1,309 – including 13 life and honorary members – and the waiting list was temporarily closed for the first time after the war.\n\nThe last significant event in the years leading to the centenary of The Tanglin Club in 1965 concerned the opening of membership. Although the rules of the club did not specifically deny membership on the grounds of race, but in practice, the club was British. In 1959, the elected government decided to eliminate the advantage enjoyed by citizens of the United Kingdom and British colonies in their eligibility for Singapore citizenship. An amended citizenship bill passed in May 1960 disallowed dual nationality and made the period of residence to qualify for Singapore citizenship eight years for all applicants, including British subjects.\n\nIn 1962, the government appealed to clubs in Singapore to have at least 50% Singaporean membership. After an extraordinary general meeting, the club's membership rule was amended to admit all races. The first Singaporeans to join the club included Shaw Vee Meng, Dr Yeo Chee Peng, Tan Eng Han, Koh Eng Yam, U. S. Chan and C. K. Sng.\n\nIn 1971, the completion of the pull out of the British forces stationed in Singapore signalled the end of a tradition in membership and association extended by The Tanglin Club from its founding. At a special meeting of Members on 3 May 1973, the category of Service membership was deleted from the club rules. By October 1978, the membership stood at 2,561 with 498 on the waiting list.\n\nTraditionally, women paid lower membership fees but were not given voting rights. It was only in April 1995 that women who were full members were accorded equal voting privileges in the club. Due to the club's constitution that capped Singaporean membership to 51%, the waiting time for Singaporeans has been known to be as long as 25 years.\n\nThe construction of a new four-storey clubhouse was carried out in phases since September 1977 and was completed in March 1981. On 14 March 1981, members bade farewell to the original clubhouse at a closing ceremony. Before the old clubhouse was demolished, memorabilia from the old building were auctioned off in support of the Children's Charity Association of Singapore. More than a month later, on 25 April 1998, the present clubhouse was officially opened by the then Minister for Law E. W. Barker. Over the years, the clubhouse had been upgraded to cater to members' needs. In 2005, the club embarked on a $21 million upgrading plan that included the construction of a new sports complex. The upgrading project is scheduled for completion in October 2007. In 2006, the club membership was 5,800, and it comprised 70 nationalities.\n\nDuring the 125th Anniversary celebrations of 1990, the then general committee carried out the interment of a time capsule. Containing various items of historical interest for future historians, the time capsule has rested undisturbed and shall not be opened till the 200th anniversary of the club in October 2065.\n\nTo commemorate the Big 150, events and promotions in celebration of this momentous milestone were featured throughout the year.\n\nOn 9 October 2015, Children’s Day, the club hosted a poolside carnival for approximately 150 disadvantaged children. To make this event more special, Members kindly volunteered to lend a helping hand during the carnival. On the same day, the club held a specially commissioned 150th celebratory musical, \"‘The Tanglin Tree’\", composed by John Sharpley, with lyrics by Tanglin Club member Robert Yeo. Over forty artists joined hands to create this unique Tanglin production. In honour of the club’s official colour, a Club-wide celebration \"‘Hallow’green’\" on 31 October 2015 was thrown.\n\nTo commemorate the 150th anniversary, the then general committee members gathered for the planting of a tanglin tree at the poolside area on 14 December 2015.\n\nThe biggest milestone of the 150th Anniversary was the Charity Drive which raised a total of nearly $450,000, from members who generously contributed to this initiative. During the club’s Charity Black Tie Gala Dinner in November 2015, a cheque of $195,975 was presented to Singapore President Tony Tan for the President’s Challenge. By December 2015, the final donation to the President’s Challenge amounted to $220,625. $73,550 was donated to Food from the Heart; $73,550 was donated to the Kidney Dialysis Foundation; a donation of $73,525 was channelled to Focus on the Family Singapore. Aside from the Charity Drive, $5,762 was donated to the club’s adopted charity for 2015, Dover Park Hospice.\n\nTo thank the Tanglin Club members for their generosity during this Charity Drive, Singapore President Tony Tan presented a token of appreciation to Club President Robert Wiener during the Appreciation Night ‘Stories of Hope’ at the Istana on 27 January 2016. Club Vice-President Eugene Lim was also pleased to represent members to attend this joyous event.\n\nToday, The Tanglin Club stands proud as one of Singapore's oldest and prominent social clubs. Exclusively available to its members, the club is an inviting oasis for relaxation and rejuvenation as its ambience still evokes the grace and charm of the past while reflecting its mission of being a \"home away from home\". Even more so today, The Tanglin Club with its strategic location, cosmopolitan membership and modern facilities, caters to the wants and desires of contemporary men and women.\n\n"}
{"id": "10165326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10165326", "title": "Umar Marvi", "text": "Umar Marvi\n\nUmar Marvi or Marui (), (), is a folktale from Sindh, Pakistan about a village girl Marvi Maraich, who resists the overtures of a powerful King and the temptation to live in the palace as a queen, preferring to be in simple rural environment with her own village folk.\n\nThe story also appears in Shah Jo Risalo and forms part of seven popular tragic romances from Sindh, Pakistan. The other six tales are \"Sassui Punnhun\", \"Sohni Mehar\", \"Lilan Chanesar\", \"Noori Jam Tamachi\", \"Sorath Rai Diyach\" and \"Momal Rano\" commonly known as the Seven Queens of Sindh, or the Seven heroines of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai.\n\nThe story of Umar Marvi is that Marvi was a young Thari girl abducted by then-ruler of Amarkot, Umar, who wanted to marry her because of her beauty. Upon her refusal she was imprisoned in the historic Umerkot Fort for several years. Because of her courage, Marvi is regarded as a symbol of love for one's soil and homeland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9779657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9779657", "title": "Umaru Dikko", "text": "Umaru Dikko\n\nDikko was born in Wamba. He started playing a role in the nation's governance in 1967, when he was appointed as a commissioner in the then \"North Central State of Nigeria\" (now Kaduna State). He was also secretary of a committee set up by General Hassan Katsina to unite the \"Northerners\" after a coup in 1966. In 1979, he was made Shagari's campaign manager for the successful presidential campaign of the National Party of Nigeria. During the nation's Second Republic, he played prominent roles as transport minister and head of the presidential task force on rice.\n\nA military coup on 31 December 1983, overthrew the government of Shagari. Dikko fled into exile in London as well as a few other ministers and party officials of the National Party of Nigeria. The new military regime accused him of large-scale corruption while in office, in particular of embezzling millions of dollars from the nation's oil revenues.\n\nOn 5 July 1984, he played the central role in the Dikko Affair; he was found drugged in a crate at Stansted Airport that was being claimed as \"diplomatic baggage\", an apparent victim of a government sanctioned kidnapping. The crate's destination was Lagos. He died in London in 2014, aged 77.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57104750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57104750", "title": "Vert Dider", "text": "Vert Dider\n\nVert Dider is a non-profit volunteer project focused around translating and dubbing scientific and educational videos for Russian-speaking audience.\n\nThe project was found in July, 2013. The studio is supported and developed by volunteers helping it evolve. The studio’s leading activity is translating and dubbing videos related to science. Over a thousand videos are currently available through the studio’s official public page on VK social media site. The list of translated into Russian and dubbed videos include videos from a number of educational YouTube channels, lectures, debates and documentaries.\n\nOn January 19, 2016, was the day when Vert Dider started cooperating with BuzzFeed media company.\n\nIn early 2017 Vert Dider started a YouTube channel for videos in English. That same year the studio joined efforts with the educational project SciOne to conduct interviews with Walter Lewin, Robert Sapolsky, Lawrence Krauss, Richard Dawkins and James Watson.\n\nThe studio has been a Harry Houdini Awards media partner since the Russian analogue to James Randi’s One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge was founded.\n\nIn October 2015, the studio started translating Richard Feynman’s Messenger Lectures into Russian. By July, 2017 the whole series had been translated and dubbed, and is currently publicly available for Russian-speakers.\n\nIn July 2016, the studio started translating and dubbing the CS50 Harvard course for JavaRush. In April 2017, an announcement was made that the work had been completed.\n\nAs of April, 2018, translation of Human Behavioral Biology by Robert Sapolsky is in progress (the fourteenth lecture of the course with Russian translation was published in February, 2018). The studio took on the task of spreading word about Robert Sapolsky throughout Russian-speaking audience. In 2017, the studio managed to arrange a long interview with Prof. Sapolsky. With the studio’s information support, \"“A Primate's Memoir”\" by Sapolsky was published by “Alpina non-fiction” publishing house.\n\nThe studio was allowed by a number of creators behind major educational channels to translate and dub their videos. The channels are listed below:\n\n\nIn 2015, the studio was nominated as “The best online project about science” for an award \"For Loyalty to Science\" initiated by Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "43076621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43076621", "title": "Vietnamese people in Belgium", "text": "Vietnamese people in Belgium\n\nVietnamese people in Belgium or Vietnamese Belgian refers to people of Vietnamese ancestry who were born in or immigrated to Belgium. The population of the community is about 14,000 as of 2012.\n\nThe first Vietnamese migrants to Belgium consisted of students and diplomats from South Vietnam beginning in 1965, when the South Vietnamese government sought for stronger relations with other Francophone nations following a minor rift with France. Belgium soon became a popular alternative to France for South Vietnamese students seeking higher education and career opportunities, especially in the cities of Brussels, Liège and Leuven.\n\nA much larger influx of Vietnamese immigrants arrived as refugees following the Fall of Saigon, beginning in 1978. Similarly to their counterparts in France, South Vietnamese refugees to Belgium were largely of higher socioeconomic standing and integrated much easier into their host country's society due to better linguistic and cultural knowledge than their peers who settled in North America, Australia and the rest of Europe.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, a number of Vietnamese workers in former Soviet Bloc countries who were sponsored by the communist government of Vietnam sought asylum in Belgium. This included many guest workers in the former East Germany who were encouraged by the German government to be repatriated back to their home country following German reunification.\n\nA large proportion of the Vietnamese Belgian population resides in Brussels and the surrounding area, with a Vietnamese business district centered along Boulevard Anspach. The rest of the Vietnamese Belgian community is largely concentrated in the southern French-speaking Wallonia region, especially around the city of Liège.\n\nThe Vietnamese community in Belgium maintains strong relations with its counterpart community in France. Before the establishment of Vietnamese businesses and community institutions in Belgium during the late 1970s, Vietnamese Belgians would travel to Paris for various purposes, such as buying Vietnamese grocery products and seeking immigrant needs.\n\nIn terms of religion, the vast majority of Vietnamese Belgians are at least nominal Buddhists, following the Mahayana branch with influences from Confucian philosophy. The influx of Vietnamese immigrants into Belgium created a visible Buddhist community in the country, with temples serving as both spiritual and community centers, and have also attracted non-Vietnamese worshippers.\n\nThe Vietnamese community in Belgium is largely well-integrated into Belgian society. Among immigrants from the former South Vietnam, initial strong knowledge of the French language allowed them to pursue studies and careers despite their recent arrival. While some Vietnamese immigrants did settle in the Flanders region and learned Dutch, most relocated to Brussels or Wallonia. Meanwhile, Belgian-born Vietnamese have extremely high rates of success in education, at many times outperforming their peers and having a high rate of enrollment in higher education.\n\n"}
{"id": "258868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258868", "title": "Waikikamukau", "text": "Waikikamukau\n\nWaikikamukau (, as if saying \"Why kick a moo-cow\") is a generic name for a small rural town or locality in New Zealand. New Zealanders use the name as a placeholder name for \"any town\" or to denote a non-specific but remote rural town. It has a similar connotation to the New Zealand slang Wop Wops\nand the Australian term Woop Woop and other appellations such as the \"Boondocks\" or \"Timbuktu\". The name is a joking reference to the frequency of New Zealand place names starting with \"Wai\" (Māori for water, and used in the names of many rivers and nearby towns).\n\nWaikikamukau is reputed to specifically refer to the town of Waipukurau in the North Island. The origins are hazy but one account is that the American servicemen stationed in NZ during the Second World War found it difficult to pronounce the place name and thus jokingly called it Waikikamukau.\n\nIt was used as the name of a successful racehorse in the 1990s.\n\nWaikikamukau was also used as the setting for a Nickelodeon telemovie, \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53353973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53353973", "title": "Wardey", "text": "Wardey\n\nThe Wardey is an ethnic community found in Southern Somalia (Lower Jubba) and Eastern Kenya, mostly along the Tana River. The Wardey are pastoralist community. They live in Tana River County alongside with the Pokomo, Orma, Wailwana and Watta communities. The tribe has a population of about 146,000 people (2011). They speak the Somali language and majority practice Islam. The origins of Wardey are unknown but some surrounding tribes say that they were originally from the Orma tribe and some sources state they are a mixture of both Orma and DIR tribes.\n"}
{"id": "588184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588184", "title": "Yamaguchi-gumi", "text": "Yamaguchi-gumi\n\nIt is one of the largest criminal organizations in the world. According to the National Police Agency, it had 20,400 active members and 18,600 associated members in 2007. It is, by far, the largest of the \"bōryokudan\" groups, and its membership encompasses roughly 45% of the 86,300 \"yakuza\" in the Japanese underworld. Leading members of the Yamaguchi-gumi number 102 people in total; 1 \"kumichō\" (組長; boss), 15 \"shatei\" (舎弟; younger brother) and 86 \"wakachū\" (若中; child) as of November 2005.\n\nThe Yamaguchi-gumi are among the world's wealthiest gangsters, bringing in billions of dollars a year from extortion, gambling, the sex industry, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, real estate and construction kickback schemes. They are also involved in stock market manipulation and Internet pornography.\n\nThe Yamaguchi-gumi has its headquarters in Kobe, but it operates all across Japan and has overseas operations in the rest of Asia and the United States. Its current \"kumichō\" (Boss), Shinobu Tsukasa, has declared an expansionist policy—even making inroads into Tokyo, traditionally not Yamaguchi turf. They also have multiple groups working overseas.\n\n\nWhen Taoka inherited the title of \"kumichō\", it was merely a local family with only a few dozen members. It was Taoka who made Yamaguchi-gumi the world's largest criminal organization. He urged his underlings to have legitimate businesses and allowed them to have their own family, which became a kind of subsidiary family of Yamaguchi-gumi. He also created a structural system in the family. \"Wakagashira\" were elected as underbosses to the \"kumichō\" and some of powerful members were elected as \"wakagashira-hosa\" (deputy underbosses).\n\n\nAfter the death of Taoka, the heir apparent \"wakagashira\" Kenichi Yamamoto (\"kumichō\" of the Yamaken-gumi) was serving a prison sentence. He died of liver failure shortly afterward. Fumiko Taoka, Kazuo Taoka's wife, stepped forward to fill the leadership void until a new \"kumichō\" could be selected by a council of eight top-level bosses.\n\nIn 1984, the elders chose Masahisa Takenaka (\"kumichō\" of the Takenaka-gumi) to be the fourth \"kumichō\" of Yamaguchi-gumi. One of the other contenders, Hiroshi Yamamoto (\"kumichō\" of the Yamahiro-gumi), broke away from Yamaguchi-gumi with many of its powerful members and more than 3,000 of its soldiers to form the Ichiwa-kai. A bitter rivalry existed between the two groups, which led to an all-out war (the Yama-Ichi War) after the Ichiwa-kai's 1985 assassination of Takenaka and \"wakahashira\" Katsumasa Nakayama. During the war, acting-\"kumichō\" Kazuo Nakanishi (\"kumichō\" of the Nakanishi-gumi) and \"wakagashira\" Yoshinori Watanabe (\"kumichō\" of the Yamaken-gumi) briefly took the leadership role until 1989.\n\nThe Yama-Ichi War ended with retirement of Hiroshi Yamamoto which was arbitrated by one of the most respected bosses Seijo Inagawa. After that, the clan elected \"wakagashira\" Yoshinori Watanabe as 5th \"kumichō\" of the organization. Masaru Takumi (\"kumichō\" of Takumi-gumi) was elected as \"wakagashira\". He was so powerful and respected within the organization that his influence overshadowed that of \"kumichō\" to some extent.\n\n\nIn 1997, then powerful \"wakagashira\" Masaru Takumi was assassinated by underlings of then \"wakagashira-hosa\" (deputy underboss) Taro Nakano. After this assassination, they were unable to choose a new \"wakagashira\" for more than eight years. As a result, leadership of the organization became weaker. Finally, in 2005, \"wakagashira-hosa\" Shinobu Tsukasa (then \"kumichō\" of the Hirota-gumi) was chosen as new \"wakagashira\" and shortly afterward, in August 2005, Tsukasa inherited the position of the 6th \"kumichō\" of the Yamaguchi-gumi.\n\nWatanabe retired to private life—rather uncommon in \"yakuza\" circles, as bosses usually do not retire until their death. Under Tsukasa's leadership, the 6th Yamaguchi-gumi has resumed expansion. Kiyoshi Takayama, \"kumichō\" of the Kodo-kai, was elected as \"wakagashira\". They absorbed the Tokyo-based gang Kokusui-kai, thus acquiring lucrative turf in the capital. Tsukasa was imprisoned in December 2005 for illegal gun possession, and was released in April 2011 after serving nearly six years in jail.\n\nImmediately after the Kobe earthquake of 1995, the Yamaguchi-gumi started a large-scale relief effort for the earthquake victims, helping with the distribution of food and supplies. This help was essential to the Kobe population, because official support was inconsistent and chaotic for several days.\n\nThe Yamaguchi-gumi also provided relief in the wake of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami by opening its offices to the public and by sending supplies to affected areas.\n\nIn an effort to boost morale, the Yamaguchi-gumi launched an eight-page newsletter in July, 2013. However, it was only distributed to full members. The publication bridges communication gaps and includes articles on the group's opinion and traditions, as well as columns on angling, with an editorial section written by Kenichi Shinoda.\n\nOn April 17, 2007, Tetsuya Shiroo, a senior ranking member of the Suishin-kai (an affiliated Yakuza family to the Yamaguchi-gumi), assassinated Iccho Itoh, the mayor of Nagasaki, over an apparent dispute over damage done to Shiroo's car at a public works construction site. On May 26, 2008, Tetsuya Shiroo was sentenced to death. However, the Fukuoka High Court revoked the death sentence and sentenced him to life imprisonment on September 29, 2009.\n\nIn February 2012 the U.S. Treasury Department announced a freeze on American-owned assets controlled by the organization and its top two leaders. The Obama administration imposed sanctions on the Yamaguchi-gumi as one of four key transnational organized crime groups, along with the Brothers' Circle from Russia, the Camorra from Italy, and Los Zetas from Mexico.\n\n\"Yakuza\" membership has been steadily declining since the 1990s. According to the National Police Agency, the total number of registered gangsters fell 14% between 1991 and 2012, to 78,600. Of those, 34,900 were Yamaguchi-gumi members, a decline of 4% from 2010. Its membership had further declined by 2013, with an estimated 28,000 members, and dropped again to 23,400 members in 2014.\n\nOn August 27, 2015, Japanese police confirmed that powerful factions, including Kobe-based Yamaken-gumi, Osaka-based Takumi-gumi, and Kyoyu-kai, broke away from Yamaguchi-gumi and formed a new group called Kobe Yamaguchi-gumi. Prior to the split, the organisation consisted of seventy-two factions. This was the first major split since the forming of Ichiwa-Kai more than thirty years ago.\n\n\n"}
