{"id": "3468467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3468467", "title": "Advertising Age", "text": "Advertising Age\n\nAdvertising Age, or Ad Age, is a global media brand publishing analysis, news and data on marketing and media. The magazine was started as a broadsheet newspaper in Chicago in 1930. Today, its content appears in multiple formats, including AdAge.com, daily e-mail newsletters, social channels, events and a bimonthly print magazine.\n\nAd Age is based in New York City. Its parent company, Detroit-based Crain Communications, is a privately held publishing company with more than 30 magazines, including \"Autoweek\", \"Crain's New York Business\", \"Crain's Chicago Business\", \"Crain's Detroit Business\", and \"Automotive News\".\n\nAd Age launched as a broadsheet newspaper in Chicago in 1930.\n\nIn 1999, \"Advertising Age\" published a list of the top 100 players in advertising history. Among these were Alvin Achenbaum, Bill Backer, Marion Harper Jr., Mary Wells Lawrence, ACNielsen, David Ogilvy, and J. Walter Thompson. In 1980, Henderson Advertising, founded by James M. Henderson in Greenville, South Carolina, became the first agency outside New York or Chicago to be named \"Advertising Agency of the Year\" by Ad Age.\n\nThe site AdCritic.com was acquired by The Ad Age Group in March 2002.\n\nAn industry trade magazine, \"BtoB\", was folded into Ad Age in January 1, 2014.\n\nIn 2017, Ad Age underwent its first major rebrand in 87 years. The design work was done by the agency Original Champions of Design.\n\nAd Age annual events and honorifics include:\n\n\n\n`"}
{"id": "22610170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22610170", "title": "Aggregate project plan", "text": "Aggregate project plan\n\nAn aggregate project plan (APP) is the process of creating development goals and objectives and using these goals and objectives to improve productivity as well as development capabilities. The purpose of this process is generally to ensure that each project will accomplish its development goals and objectives. Projects can be differentiated into five types of projects: breakthrough, platform, derivative, R&D, or partnered projects (such as projects performed with partners or allianced firms). This differentiation determines a project's development goals and objectives as well as resources allocated to that project.\n\nAn aggregate project plan provides management with a categorized list of projects, which balances short- and long-term goals. This list assists management in making difficult decisions such as when to start projects and which projects should be cannibalized. Starting projects in a sequential manner according to the firm's strategy as well as resources available will allow fewer projects to continue simultaneously and improve productivity.\nAnother benefit is the creation of an organizational form for each project type. This creates a focus on the generation of competence and builds the speed and productivity of individuals as well as the organization itself.\n\nThis is the process a firm undergoes to create an aggregate project plan: \n\nDerivative projects can vary from additions or augmentations to existing products or simple price reductions over time. Improvement work on derivative projects falls into three categories, incremental product changes, incremental process changes, and incremental changes in both sectors. Due to these minor changes, derivative projects require trivial effort & resources on both development and management.\n\"Examples: special edition car paint and iPod hard drive size updates\"\nMany organizations make derivative products, which can range from special editions of existing cars, adding nothing more than a special paint scheme and interior or a new iPod with a large hard drive.\n\nThese projects are the next generation of products for the company. These are major changes from existing products/services or the way the product/service is made or delivered. These create a new ‘platform‘ for growth in the future. These projects offer significant improvements in cost, quality, and performance. Platforms are created to meet the needs of a core group of customers changing more than one aspect of a product or service; while derivatives normally only change one aspect of a product or service.\n\"Examples: new car models. Microprocessor\" \nNew car models have major changes in a number of areas which include manufacturing and product changes when they are released creating a platform for the car company. A new microprocessor with changes in speed, size, and capabilities, while having a new process to create them, adds a new platform for the company.\n\nThese projects are the highest risk and the highest reward category. These involve the newest technology greater than that of a platform project. This use of this technology may be ‘disruptive’ to the rest of the industry and create an entirely new product category to define the industry. This may be a brand new technology or significant changes to existing projects. These types of projects often incorporate new and innovative manufacturing or servicing processes. These types of projects should be given leeway to work outside of normal and existing operating techniques.\n\"Examples: fiber optic data transfer, hybrid cars\"\nFiber optic data transfer cables revolutionized the industry of data transfer. This new technology was a breakthrough in the industry with lines of dark fiber laid though many major cities. Hybrid cars are the first types of cars not to rely solely on the use of fossil fuels.\n\nThe invention of knowledge of new materials and technologies that will be used in commercial development. R&D projects are high risk endeavors with a possibility of high returns. Research & development is important since it will always occur before product and process development. R&D projects also use the same resources as commercial development and will always compete for them. Every organization has different expectations for R&D projects due to its high possibility of failure. \n\"Example: 3D Television\"\nAn example of a R&D project would be a Television company attempting to develop a new, 3D viewing system for consumers. This would require extensive research & development that would have a high up-front cost and possible return with a large risk of failure.\n\nThese projects can fall under any of the other four categories. However, these projects can often be overlooked while mapping the aggregate project plan. These plans are important and their resource usage should be included in planning.\n\"Example: Pepsi and Starbucks\"\nStarbucks has an agreement that Pepsi will bottle their beverages they sell in retail sources. This is a partnership between both companies that neither can ignore and the resources should be accounted for.\n"}
{"id": "2020130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2020130", "title": "Anticipatory repudiation", "text": "Anticipatory repudiation\n\nAnticipatory repudiation, also called an anticipatory breach, is a term in the law of contracts that describes a declaration by the promising party to a contract that he or she does not intend to live up to his or her obligations under the contract.\n\nA party is considered to have repudiated a contract when they evidence a lack of willingness or an inability to perform their contractual obligations. A repudiation of a contract by one party (the repudiating party) will entitle the other party (the aggrieved party) to elect to terminate the contract. This is based on objective intentions i.e. the repudiating party's words or conduct.; This unwillingness or inability to perform a condition must deprive the aggrieved party of substantially the whole of the benefit that they would have received if the remaining obligations were performed under the contract. When such an event occurs, the performing party to the contract is excused from having to fulfill his or her obligations. However, the repudiation can be retracted by the promising party so long as there has been no material change in the position of the performing party in the interim. A retraction of the repudiation restores the performer's obligation to perform on the contract.\n\nAnother rationale for the doctrine of repudiation is based on the breach of an implied term not rendering future performance futile: \"[O]ne essential promise which is implied in every contract is that neither party will without just cause repudiate his obligations under the contract, whether the time for performance has arrived or not.\"\n\nRepudiation of the contract by one party entitles the other party the right to terminate and claim for damages. However, it is possible that the repudiating party does not repudiate the entire contract but only certain obligations. In this case, the aggrieved party will only acquire the right to terminate if the repudiating party repudiates an obligation which, if breached, would grant a right to terminate.\n\nIf the promising party's repudiation makes it impossible to fulfil its promise, then retraction is not possible and no act by the promising party can restore the performing party's obligations under the contract. For example, if A promises to give B a unique sculpture in exchange for B painting A's house, but A then sells the sculpture to C before B begins the job, this act by A constitutes an anticipatory repudiation which excuses B from performing. Once the sculpture has left A's possession, there is no way that A can fulfil the promise to give the sculpture to B.\n\nThe question arises as to why any party would want to provide notice of anticipatory breach. The reason is that once the performing party is informed of the anticipatory breach, a duty is then created for the performing party to mitigate damages as a result of the breach. Another situation where anticipatory repudiation can occur is where a party has reason to believe the other party is not going to perform and requests reasonable assurances that the other party will perform (see UCC 2-609(1)). If such reasonable assurances are not given, it will constitute anticipatory repudiation, for which the performing party has various remedies, including termination. However, anticipatory repudiation only applies to a bilateral executory contract with non-performed duties on both sides. Additionally, the repudiation must be unequivocal.\n\nAccording to UCC 2-713(1) damages are to be measured at the time when the buyer learned of the breach. This is easy with a one transaction sale, e.g. a widget at the purchaser's door step on X date,; but when does the purchaser learn of the breach in an anticipatory repudiation? There are three main views:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43405541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43405541", "title": "Any.do", "text": "Any.do\n\nAny.do is a productivity app designed to help people get more done. Any.do launched its to-do list and task list app in November of 2011 on Android followed by complimentary apps for iOS and Chrome in 2012, as well as a web app and a premium subscription model in 2014 . By November 2013, Any.do reached over 7M users, over 10 million users in March 2014, and 15 million in November 2016. In November 2016, the company launched Any.do 4, that combined the a to do list, a calendar, and a part AI part human personal assistant that can complete users tasks in a single app. In 2017, the company announced a partnership with Amazon Alexa and Slack. In 2018, the company launched a smart grocery list and shopping list feature as well as integration with Google Assistant and Siri.\n\nAny.do was co-founded by Omer Perchik, Itay Kahana, and Yoni Lindenfeld. It has offices in both Tel Aviv and San Francisco.\n\nPrior to Any.do, co-founders \"Omer Perchik\", \"Itay Kahana\" and \"Yoni Lindenfeld\" launched a simpler version of the app on Android called Taskos. By 2010, Taskos had 1.3 million users and served as a test version for what would eventually become Any.do.\nThe company opened development offices in Tel Aviv, Israel and opened its business headquarters in San Francisco, California in 2012. In November 2013, the company released a study revealing the mobile habits of their most productive “super users”.\n\nAny.do’s namesake to-do list app was released first on Android, and had 500,000 downloads in its first 30 days after launch. It was later released on iOS in June 2012 and reached another milestone with 100,000 iPhone downloads in its first day on the platform. By November 2016 they hit 15 million users.\n\n\"To-do list / Task management:\"\n\n\"Prioritization/planning:\"\n\"Calendar (new in v4.0, replacing the separate Cal app):\" \n\n\"Delegating to an Assistant (new in v4.0)\"\n\nAny.do released their second app, Cal for iPhone, in July 2013. Cal for Android was later released in December 2013. Like Any.do, Cal is an interactive, gesture-based calendar app with social integrations. Unlike other calendar apps, Cal helps users focus on the immediate schedule of their day and find pockets of free time for personal use.\nCal’s scheduling and productivity features include:\n\n\nCal also integrates with the original Any.do task app and allows users to automatically populate their calendars with relevant tasks by date and event.\n\nOn October 9, 2013, The Verge reported Any.do to be the one of the main inspirations behind Jony Ive’s iOS 7 redesign, and others have noted its similarities to the revamped Apple operating system.\n\nAny.do announced $1 million in angel funding in November 2011.\n\nBy May 2013 the company had raised $3.5 million from Genesis Partners, Eric Schmidt’s Innovation Endeavors, Blumberg Capital, Joe Lonsdale of Palantir Technologies, Brian Koo of Formation 8, Joe Greenstein of Flixter, and Felicis Ventures. The company raised additional unannounced funding from a group of strategic investors including Jerry Yang of AME Cloud Ventures and Steve Chen of YouTube, among others, by October of that same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30874317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874317", "title": "Blanchette Ferry Rockefeller", "text": "Blanchette Ferry Rockefeller\n\nBlanchette Ferry Hooker (October 2, 1909 – November 29, 1992) was the wife of John D. Rockefeller III and mother of Jay Rockefeller. She was twice president of the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nBlanchette Ferry Hooker was born in Manhattan, New York on October 2, 1909. She was the daughter of Elon Huntington Hooker, founder of Hooker Chemical Company, and his wife, Blanche Ferry.\n\nShe graduated from Miss Chapin's School in 1927, where she was president of the student government. She graduated from Vassar College in 1931 with a B.A. in music. On November 11, 1932, she married John D. Rockefeller III, a scion of the prominent Rockefeller family, at Riverside Church in New York City. They had four children: \n\nBlanchette devoted her time to community service, education, and the arts - in particular the collection of Asian and American art. \"She had been active in the affairs of the Museum of Modern Art since 1949 and was elected a member of the Board of Trustees in December 1952. In 1958, at a time when many Americans derided modern art or thought it communist and subversive, Rockefeller lent her support to the International Program that helped send \"The New American Painting\", the first major exhibition of Abstract Expressionism, to eight European cities.\" \nIn 1948, Blanchette Rockefeller commissioned a guest house by architect Philip Johnson. Located at 242 East 52nd Street next to the Turtle Bay Music School, it was one of the first residential buildings in New York City to reflect the influence of the Modern movement. The 1950 guest house was a place in which she could display her modern art collection and entertain friends. The Rockefellers donated the house (historically landmarked in 2000) to the Museum of Modern Art in 1955.\n\n\"Blanchette Rockefeller provided enlightened leadership to MoMA as president of the museum from 1972 through 1985. Two of her most important gifts were Willem de Kooning’s \"Woman II\" (1952) and Clyfford Still’s \"Painting\" (1951), an Abstract-Expressionist landscape. The Abstract Expressionist galleries on the second floor are named in her honor. In 1979 Rockefeller accepted an Oscar on behalf of MoMA’s work in film.\"\n\nThe Rockefellers maintained homes in New York City and at \"Fieldwood Farm\" in the expansive Rockefeller family estate of Pocantico (see Kykuit in Westchester County, New York.\n\nShe died in her home near Briarcliff Manor, New York of pneumonia, a complication of Alzheimer's Disease, on November 29, 1992, at the age of 83. Blanchette was buried at the Rockefeller Family Cemetery, Sleepy Hollow, New York. The Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute (BRNI) at West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia is named in her honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8757586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8757586", "title": "Calvin Helin", "text": "Calvin Helin\n\nCalvin Helin is a Canadian businessman and writer on aboriginal topics who is a member of the Tsimshian First Nation in northwestern British Columbia.\n\nHe is from the Tsimshian village community of Lax Kw'alaams, B.C., son of Barry Helin (Niisłaganuus, an hereditary chief of the Gitlaan tribe) and Verna Helin (of the royal House of 'Wiiseeks of the Ginaxangiik tribe). In the Tsimshian matrilineal system, he follows his mother as a Ginaxangiik Tsimshian of the Gispwudwada (Killerwhale) clan.\n\nHe is the author of the 2006 book \"Dances with Dependency: Indigenous Success through Self-Reliance,\" which is illustrated by his cousin Bill Helin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5185176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5185176", "title": "Catherine Willis Gray", "text": "Catherine Willis Gray\n\nCatherine Daingerfield Willis Gray Murat (August 17, 1803 – August 6, 1867) was an American socialite. She was married to Prince Achille Murat, an exiled Napoleonic prince living in America, from 1826 to 1847. She was born near Fredericksburg, Virginia and died in Tallahassee, Florida, United States.\n\nMurat was the great-grandniece of George Washington. She was a daughter of Colonel Byrd C. Willis (August 29, 1781 – 1846) and his wife Mary Lewis. Mary Lewis was the granddaughter of Fielding Lewis, George Washington's brother-in-law. Through the Lewis family, she was also a relative of explorer Meriwether Lewis.\n\nHer parents made their first home in Orange near the Court House. Later they came to Willis Hill. Col. Willis paid little attention to the management of the plantation and instead spent his time fox hunting, racing, and attending parties. Income was derived from the race profits and the sale of fire wood.\n\nCatherine married Atchison Gray, son of John Gray of Traveller's Rest (Kearneysville, West Virginia). Atchison died less than 12 months after their marriage and their child, born after his death, died also.\n\nAbout 1825, Catherine Murat came to Tallahassee with her parents, three brothers and two sisters. In 1826 she met and married her second husband, Prince Achille Murat. He was a son of Joachim Murat, former King of Naples and Caroline Bonaparte.\n\nHis maternal uncles included Joseph Bonaparte, Napoleon I of France, Lucien Bonaparte, Louis Bonaparte and Jérôme Bonaparte. His maternal aunts included Elisa Bonaparte and Pauline Bonaparte.\n\nCatherine (Willis Gray) Murat, was entertained when abroad. On 8 September 1831, Catherine was present at the coronation of William IV of the United Kingdom and was given a seat in Westminster Abbey. \n\nIn 1847, she inherited the Lipona Plantation in Jefferson County, Florida upon the death of her husband. In 1854 she bought Bellevue, in Leon County, which became her primary residence. \n\nCatherine became involved in the nation’s first successful preservation effort, the work to preserve George Washington’s home. In 1858, Murat was appointed the first Vice Regent for Florida for the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, the title given the central person in each state organizing the association’s work. Working closely with Ellen Call Long, she led the efforts as the state raised $3,791 toward the restoration of Mount Vernon, the largest per capita amount raised by any of the 30 contributing states. Murat served in that post until her death. Despite her staunch Unionism, she was named master of ceremonies during the celebrations of the Florida Secession Convention in 1861. Later, during the American Civil War, Murat participated in the local \"Soldiers Aid Societies,\" who met as sewing circles to clothe the southern troops.\nEarly in 1866, Napoleon III of France, a maternal first cousin of her husband, granted Murat an annuity from the French government in consideration of her losses during the Civil War. Catherine Murat died August 6, 1867 at Bellevue.\nCatherine's marker in the old Tallahassee Episcopal Cemetery reads: \"SACRED to the Memory of PRINCESS C. A. MURAT, Widow of COL. CHARLES LOUIS NAPOLEON ACHILLES MURAT, and Daughter of the late COL. BIRD C. WILLIS, of Virginia. Who departed this life on 6 August 1867, in the 64th year of her age. A kind and affectionate wife and sister, a sincere and devoted friend. None knew her but to love her. None named her but to praise. This Monument is erected to her memory, by her bereaved Brother and Sister.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19264475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264475", "title": "Civil service reform in developing countries", "text": "Civil service reform in developing countries\n\nCivil service reform is a deliberate action to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, professionalism, representativity and democratic character of a civil service, with a view to promoting better delivery of public goods and services, with increased accountability. Such actions can include data gathering and analysis, organizational restructuring, improving human resource management and training, enhancing pay and benefits while assuring sustainability under overall fiscal constraints, and strengthening measures for performance management, public participation, transparency, and combating corruption.\n\nThe civil service reform agenda in developing countries has evolved and changed its focus over the decades. The academic literature on civil service reform has provided arguments and counterarguments clarifying how several approaches to reform affect the overall performance of the civil service. The increasing availability of empirical data allows to test the effectiveness of specific reforms in a given context. While designing effective civil service reforms is a tremendously complex task considering that the right mix of corruption control and performance improvements may vary greatly across and within countries, empirical as well as qualitative research can contribute to the body of evidence-based knowledge on civil service reforms in developing countries.\n\nMany challenges remain as persisting political economy factors hinder the success of civil service reforms.\n\nMax Weber's model of the ideal type of public administration has been an influential approach to civil service reforms in the 20th century. The bureaucratic type of administration contrasts with the patrimonial type in its underlying organizing principles. Weber’s organization of the public administration relies on a clearly defined hierarchical structure with a system of subordination and supervision, a division of labor and specified positions with assigned responsibilities. Contrary to the patrimonial system in which there is no distinction between private and public domains, the Weberian bureaucracy is defined by its impersonal and impartial character. Civil servants operate according to a set of rules and procedures they must observe. Impartiality is in part attained through the professionalization of the civil service and meritocratic recruitment through competitive examinations. For full-time and professionalized civil servants, public office-holding becomes a 'vocation'.\n\nWeberian ideal-typical principles have served as foundations for civil service reforms in developing countries. Scholars and policymakers have been interested in identifying the specific features that determine bureaucratic efficiency and corruption and the mechanisms through which these features increase effectiveness and restrict corrupt behaviour in the civil service.\n\nEmpirical studies found that meritocratic recruitment of public officials in particular is associated with lower corruption levels. There are several ways in which meritocratic recruitment and promotion can restrict corrupt behaviour. To begin with, administering entry examinations and educational attainment requirements enable the selection of competent civil servants. As a matter of fact, a study by the IMF shows that better-educated civil servants are related to lower levels of corruption, better performance including better public finance management and higher tax revenue mobilization as well as higher economic growth.\n\nFurthermore, the internal promotion and career stability of merit-recruited civil servants create a sense of shared commitment to the 'vocation' of office-holding that establishes 'esprit de corps', making it harder for corruption to occur.\n\nOther evidence suggests that a professional merit-based civil service preempts corruption not necessarily through the selection of capable officials but rather through the appointment of civil servants whose interests differ from politicians'. Misaligned interests create a coordination problem which prevents corrupt practices and instead introduces a system of mutual monitoring.\n\nDuring the 1980s, developing countries subject to structural adjustment programs (SAPs) experienced fiscal austerity notably manifested through pressures to reduce the public wage bill. R. Klitgaard raised concerns that falling civil service wages could exacerbate bureaucratic inefficiencies and corruption. Low public sector wages have been associated with lower performance and motivation. Salaries below opportunity cost can induce civil servants to opt for potentially harmful adaptive strategies and seek opportunities for own-account activities. Public officials may ask for compensation through informal or illegal means and these coping strategies compromise the efficiency and honesty of civil service organizations.\n\nGiven these arguments, increasing public officials' wages and other employment benefits has been an important aspect of the civil service reform agenda in developing countries. Economic models based on the early work of Becker and Stigler have had a particular influence on the policy debate.\n\nPrincipal-agent models of corruption in the civil service provide a theoretical analysis of the relationship between public service pay and corruption. The shirking model (Shapiro-Stiglitz) is centred on the choice public officials who have the opportunity to be corrupt must make. These rational utility-maximizing agents decide to engage in morally hazardous behaviour based on a cost-benefit analysis equating the expected returns to corruption (bribes) to the costs of being corrupt (penalties, potential foregone future earnings). Corruption is detected with a certain probability and is punished by job loss or other penalties. The model predicts that, all else equal, higher wages can deter corruption by increasing the value of behaving honestly. However, when bribes are high and punishment and the probability of detection are low, substantial increases in public official's wages may be required to preempt bribery. Another model explaining bureaucratic corruption, the fair-wage model, makes a distinction between need-based and greed-based corruption. According to this theory, public officials are not necessarily driven by greed but find corruption tempting when their salaries do not allow to meet subsistence levels. 'Fairness' is also determined by other factors, such as the salaries of peers within the civil service, private sector wages, social expectations and the status of civil servants. The perception of not being paid a fair wage increases corruptibility and also reduces the moral costs of corruption. This model therefore suggests that even modest increases in salaries ensuring 'fair wages' can reduce civil servants' propensity to solicit and accept bribes.\n\nThe theoretical linkage between public salary increases and corruption remains ambiguous. In a context of constrained government fiscal resources, the question of cost-effectiveness to design optimal wage policies arises. A cross-country study by Van Rijckeghem and Weder endeavours to find empirical support for the fair-wage and efficiency wage hypotheses. The authors conclude that relative government wages are negatively and significantly correlated with measures of corruption but that eradicating corruption would necessitate unrealistic increases in relative wages. These correlations, however, cannot be interpreted as evidence of a causal relationship going from public sector wages to corruption. Causality may run in the reverse direction, pervasive corruption has been shown to reduce tax revenue collection and public expenditures. Poor public finance performance and strong budgetary pressures due to corruption may in turn sustain low civil service salaries. This endogeneity problem complicates the understanding of the relationship between pay reforms and corruption.\n\nKlaus Abbink also tests the fair salary hypothesis in a laboratory experimental setting. The controlled environment in this experiment allows to isolate and identify the impact of 'fair income' considerations on corrupt behaviour. He finds that public officials in two treatments with different perceptions of 'fairness' behave similarly in a bribery game. In other words, high relative public officials salaries do not alter decisions to be corrupt through fairness considerations. These experimental results substantiate Van Rijckeghem and Weder's findings and cast doubt on the cost-effectiveness of increasing public salaries to combat corruption.\n\nDi Tella and Schargrodsky provide additional evidence with their micro-empirical analysis on wages and auditing during a crackdown on corruption in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1996-97. They argue that wage increases can be effective only when combined with intermediate levels of monitoring intensity (the probability of detection in the shirking model). They test their hypotheses using variations in audit intensity during the crackdown on corruption in public hospitals and find that procurement officers’ wages alone have no statistically significant effect on corruption but detect a negative relationship when wages are interacted with audit intensity. The authors make the case that higher wages and monitoring (“carrots and sticks”) should be used simultaneously to act as an effectual anti-corruption strategy.\n\nThe literature on public officials' salaries and corruption offers mixed or inconclusive evidence and seems to indicate that pay increases is a necessary but insufficient condition for curbing corruption.\n\nWage hikes could also have varying effects depending on whether reforms focus on base-salary (unconditional) increases or performance-related pay increases.\n\nFollowing the dissatisfaction with centralized forms of governance, decentralization of public service provision to sub-national governments became a global trend, particularly in developing countries. Decentralization is the transfer of authority, resources and responsibilities from higher to lower levels of government. Scott and Rao distinguish three types of decentralization:\n\n\nCountries differ in their degree of administrative, political and fiscal decentralization. For instance, in China there is a devolution of administrative and fiscal responsibilities but no political decentralization whereas it is the opposite in India.\n\nThere are several theoretical arguments supporting that decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption. To begin with, decentralization is believed to bring the government closer to its citizens and to improve the allocation of resources at the local level. The optimal output level of a local public good (at which citizens' marginal benefit equals marginal cost of providing the good) varies across localities because of differences in preferences and costs. Considering that sub-national governments have better information about the preferences and circumstances of their constituencies, they can tailor the provision of public goods according to these preferences, thereby increasing efficiency and total welfare. This idea goes back to F. Hayek's argument in his essay \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945). Hayek asserts that since knowledge is decentralized (\"the knowledge of the particular circumstances of time and place\"), it follows that decisions and control over resources should be decentralized (a necessary although not sufficient condition for achieving optimal allocation).\n\nHowever, principal-agent models demonstrate there can be tradeoffs in transferring decision-making responsibilities. Under these theoretical frameworks, central public officials are assumed to be public-spirited principals and local officials act as self-interested agents. On the one hand, public good delivery can be better adapted to local needs but on the other hand, the decisions are made by agents whose interests differ from the principal. Delegating authority can result in 'control loss' or 'abuse of power'. Decentralization can be more effective than centralized decision-making if the gains from adaptability can outweigh the control loss. The overall effects of decentralization on governance and welfare will therefore depend on the degree to which the principal's and agent's interests are opposed and the principal's ability to exert control over the agent's actions.\n\nIt has also been argued that decentralization can enhance accountability in the service delivery mechanism. Local governments' proximity makes it more feasible for citizens to monitor and hold public officials accountable. The accountability mechanisms work through political decentralization. In a functional local democracy, local elections constitute an 'incomplete contract' enabling citizens to remove non-performing local officials from office. However, as Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, local democracy may not operate effectively in practice in developing countries and may be captured by local elites.\n\nFurthermore, decentralization can reduce corruption by creating horizontal competition between local governments. Tiebout make the case in a 1956 paper that residents' and factors of production's mobility across localities can reduce the monopoly power exercised by local public officials with respect to regulations and bribes. Fiscal and political decentralization encourages inter-jurisdictional competition that pressures sub-national governments to efficiently deliver local public goods. If citizens are dissatisfied with their local government's performance, they can move to other regions, thereby decreasing tax revenues in less efficient jurisdictions. A similar argument concerning the relationship between a decentralized bureaucratic structure and bribe payments has been explored in the academic literature. Rose-Ackerman suggests that a decentralized civil service can reduce bribery since competition between public officials would bid down bribe payments. Vishny and Shleifer further develop this argument, they build a model where citizens and businesses require more than one service or good from several public officials. If government services are substitutes, then the competitive regime still applies. However, when government services are complementary and in the case of a decentralized bureaucratic structure, firms or citizens are facing several independent bureaucrats. Decentralization might therefore lead to a lack of coordination among bribe-seeking bureaucrats and a \"Tragedy of the Commons\" outcome where public officials ask bribe payments that are too high, thereby increasing the burden that corruption imposes on firms and citizens.\n\nDiaby and Sylwester empirically test these hypotheses in a cross-country regression and find that bribe payments are higher under a more decentralized bureaucratic structure. Yet Fisman and Gatti detect a strong negative correlation between fiscal decentralization (as measured by subnational share of total government spending) and corruption. Treisman (2000) examines correlations between eight different measures of decentralization with various measures of corruption and service delivery performance. The same measure of fiscal decentralization used by Fisman and Gatti appears not to be significantly correlated with corruption measures.\n\nDecentralization is a complex process which manifests itself in various forms. The design and impetus for decentralization are specific to each country, which complicates comparisons of a single conception of decentralization. The literature on decentralization experiences in several developing countries suggests the effects of decentralization on public sector performance and corruption are likely to be ambiguous and highly context-specific. The empirical work appears to be inconclusive as various types of decentralization were examined using different measures. What's more, measuring corruption as bribery without paying attention to special interest capture may provide an inaccurate assessment of the impact of decentralization. As Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, bribery may decrease while being replaced by local elite capture as a result of decentralization.\n\nTreisman purports that the theoretical and empirical arguments about decentralization and governance refer to specific types of decentralization. He identifies five types: structural, decision, resource, electoral and institutional decentralization and develops arguments clarifying how each type affects the quality of government. While some types of decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption, others can undermine government performance, this can in part explain the mixed empirical evidence on the effects of decentralization.\n\nRather than structuring rewards and penalties for corrupt behaviour, another approach to civil service reform seeks to increase the probability that corrupt activity will be observed. Theoretically, monitoring can reduce information asymmetries so that the principal can induce the agent to choose the optimal level of effort and the optimal degree of corrupt activity. As the agent compares his expected payoff of being honest to that of being corrupt, increasing the probability of getting caught and punished will deter corrupt behaviour.\n\nCivil service auditing by the principal or third parties serves an accountability function. The inherent conflict of interest as well as the lack of oversight require independent third parties to certify the reliability of financial reporting, performance results and compliance to rules. Auditors can help exercise oversight by evaluating the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the delivery of government services. These audits must rely on efficiency measures and pre-determined criteria and benchmarks to assess public servant's performance and the impact of government's programs. Performance auditing can also help detect corruption in public entities. Audits highlight irregularities and areas of inefficiencies that may indicate the existence of corruption. Based on suspicious circumstances, auditors can identify illegal behaviour and collect evidence on misdeeds which can subsequently be used to prosecute public servants at fault. As previously mentioned, successful detection efforts by performance auditing can have a deterrent effect on corrupt activities.\n\nAuditing and prosecution were important elements in Justice Plana's campaign to curb corruption in the Bureau of Internal Revenue in the Philippines. Appointed as the new Commissioner of the corrupt Bureau of Internal Revenue, Justice Plana's anti-corruption strategy focused on implementing a new performance evaluation system, gathering information on corruption through intelligence agents and audits and effectively prosecuting corrupt tax officers. While Justice Plana's campaign was a multi-faceted approach, the higher monitoring intensity combined with a highly credible threat of punishment were particularly successful in deterring corrupt behaviour in the Bureau of Internal Revenue. According to Professor Magtolis-Briones, the threat of being detected and prosecuted decidedly lead officials to reconsider their decisions to engage in corrupt activities.\n\nIn Georgia, the success of anti-corruption reforms especially relied on top-down monitoring and prosecution but Schueth warns about the potential abuses of monitoring when fighting corruption. The crackdown on corruption in the tax agency involved coercion such as the use of extra-legal surveillance systems to ensure public officials' observance of the new procedural codes.\n\nLaboratory experiments provide evidence on the impact monitoring. In a controlled bribery experiment in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Armantier and Boly observed that monitoring and punishment can be an effective anti-corruption policy. The researchers had two treatments, low monitoring and high monitoring.While the 'low monitoring' treatment proved effective in curbing bribery, they could not detect significant treatment effects on bribery in the 'high monitoring' treatment. The authors suggest that high monitoring intensity can crowd out intrinsic motivations to behave honestly.\n\nSerra compare the effectiveness of top-down and bottom-up monitoring in a laboratory bribery game between public officials and private citizens. The experimental results suggest that top-down auditing is ineffective in deterring bribery, this may be especially true in weak institutional environments. However, the researcher found that combining formal top-down auditing and bottom-up monitoring created an accountability mechanism that was effective in curbing corruption.\n\nAn alternative approach to improving governance and combating corruption that has gained prominence in recent years is encouraging grassroots participation by community members in local monitoring to induce bottom-up pressures for reform. The 2004 World Development Report: Making Services Work for Poor People is centred on this grassroots approach to development. Community participation is now considered an important component of reforms aiming to improve public service delivery and corruption at the local level.\n\nBottom-up models of governance involve community members participating in the service provision process by allowing them to monitor public officials, to have a say in policymaking, and keep service providers accountable to incentivize them to deliver public goods and services efficiently.\n\nJ. Stiglitz argues that community members, as beneficiaries of public goods and services, will have more incentives to monitor and ensure that governments programs are successful compared to indifferent central bureaucrats. In particular, project involving local citizens will be more likely to succeed since community participation helps sustain efforts towards the long-term continuation of projects necessary to keep them effective.\n\nNevertheless, B. Olken contends that grassroots monitoring for public goods and services may be impaired by a free-rider problem and suggests that government provision of private goods (subsidized food or health care) may generate more incentives to monitor service provision as each community member has a personal interest in securing the effective delivery of goods and in minimizing extortion by public officials. Stiglitz indeed recognizes that grassroots monitoring of public good delivery is in itself a public good and that as such, it is under-provided.\n\nA bottom-up project, the Citizen Report Card (CRC), pioneered by the NGO Public Affairs Center (PAC) was implemented in 1993 in Bangalore, India. This project aimed at gathering local citizens' feedback on civil service performance and publicizing the results through the media, thereby exerting public pressures for the public service to improve its performance and launch reforms. In 1993, the report cards revealed low levels of citizens' satisfaction with service providers, and the expectation was that report cards would serve as an accountability mechanism that would bring forward issues of service provision quality and corruption levels in the public service. While this initiative did raise awareness on such issues, there was some but not dramatic improvement in service delivery quality between 1994 and 1999. However, the difficulty of measuring improvements in service quality other than through subjective measures restricts opportunities to rigorously evaluate this bottom-up initiative.\n\nParticipatory Budgeting in Porto Alegre, Brazil is known among scholars and policymakers as an enduring example of bottom-up reforms. Participatory budgeting allows citizens to voice their demands regarding service delivery improvements, and through negotiations to influence budget funds allocation at the municipality level. This project was initiated in 1989, and is said to have improved access to and the quality of public service provision, especially for lower segments of society. For instance, 27,000 new public housing units were created in 1989 (compared to only 1,700 in 1986), the number of schools quadrupled between 1986 and 1997 while the share of Porto Alegre's budget going to education and health went from 13% in 1985 to about 40% in 1996. Participatory budgeting still has to address some limitations, including lack of representation of the poorest, but its success has led other municipalities in Brazil and public entities in other countries to adopt this initiative.\n\nIn 2010, the Ghanaian government implemented a civil service salary reform, the Single Spine Salary Structure (SSSS) to mitigate pay disparities in the public service. Police officers were the first beneficiaries of this new salary structure as the police service has historically been the least well-paid of public services in Ghana. Their wages unilaterally doubled in an attempt to increase their living standards to reduce bribery (fair-wage hypothesis). Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang assess the impact of this salary reform using a difference-in-difference analysis taking advantage of the exogenous change induced by the policy.\n\nWhile police officers' wages doubled, the salaries of other civil servants in Ghana and police officers in Burkina Faso stayed the same. The researchers identified two groups, the Ghanaian policemen who received the treatment (higher wages) and the control group consisting of other civil servants (Ghanaian custom officers and Burkinabé policemen) whose wages did not increase.\n\nUsing data on bribes paid from 2,100 truck trips between Ghana and Burkina Faso, Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang can observe the differences in interactions with truck drivers between the treated and the control group before the salary reform (2006-2010) and after the salary reform (2010-2012). If we assume group differences would have stayed constant in the absence of the reform (parallel trend assumption), the difference-in-difference coefficient estimate measures the causal impact of the salary increase on Ghanaian police officers' propensity to ask for bribes. The results suggest that the salary reform counterintuively increased police officers' efforts to extort bribes, the value of the bribes and the total amount truck drivers had to pay on the road. This evidence goes against theoretical arguments on pay reforms in the civil service. Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang posit that these results could be due to the lack of enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Without changing the environment and other incentives facing civil servants, it appears that increasing wages may not have the predicted effects on corruption.\n\nCorruption in tax administration has particularly detrimental effects on tax revenue collection, fiscal balance and overall economic performance. Khan, Khwaja and Olken implemented a large-scale randomized experiment in Punjab, Pakistan to assess the impact of performance-based payment schemes for tax collectors. In collaboration with the Punjab provincial government, they randomly allocated tax officials in the provincial urban property tax department into four groups, a control group and three treatment groups corresponding to different pay-for-performance designs.\n\nThe three treatment groups differed in the degree to which tax officers' pay was based on revenue collection performance and on other subjective evaluations from taxpayers and the tax department. The 'Revenue' treatment provided incentives depending only on revenue collection exceeding a benchmark while the 'Revenue Plus' scheme tied salaries to tax collection performance as well as accuracy of tax assessment and taxpayers' satisfaction. The last treatment 'Flexible Plus' added several criteria set by the tax department to determine wages. After two fiscal years, Khan, Khwaja and Olken found that across the three treatment groups, tax revenues increased by 9 log points on average which is equivalent to 46% higher growth of revenues compared to the control group.\n\nThe 'Revenue' scheme was the most effective in increasing tax collection but the researchers found no effects on accuracy of tax assessment or the satisfaction of taxpayers. They note that pay-for-performance schemes may have tradeoffs: giving excessive incentives to tax officers might increase their bargaining power with taxpayers and lead to more extortion and taxpayers' dissatisfaction. However, Khan, Khwaja and Olken point out that the benefits of pay-for-performance contracts outweigh their costs and suggest they can effective in increasing tax revenue collection.\n\nIn 2003, the federal government of Brazil created the Controladoria Geral da União (CGU) charged with corruption prevention and internal control. The CGU launched an anti-corruption program, Programa de Fiscalização por Sorteios Públicos (Monitoring Program with Public Lotteries), which consists in randomly selecting municipalities for audits and publicly disseminating the findings. As of 2015, 12 years after the beginning of the reform, there have been 2,241 audits in 1,949 municipalities. Researchers Avis, Ferraz and Finan exploited the random selection to measure the impact of this anti-corruption program. While some municipalities had been audited several times in the past (treatment group), others were being audited for the first time (control group). Since the municipalities were randomly selected, comparing corruption levels among municipalities in the control and treatment group can provide causal estimates of the effects of the reform.\n\nBased on audit reports, they estimate that 30% of the federal funds transferred to municipalities were stolen. However, they find that corruption levels were 8% lower in municipalities that had previously undergone government audits, thereby suggesting that random audits can be an effective policy against corruption. The researchers posit that random audits can reduce corruption by increasing public officials' perceived probability of being detected. They observed that audits also generated spillover effects, neighbouring municipalities were also affected, having an additional neighbour audited decreased their corruption levels by 7.5%. The local media played a role in disseminating information about other municipalities' audit outcomes.\n\nAvis et al. identify several mechanisms through which the audits led to lower local corruption. First, the new program introduce a system of political accountability whereby local citizens can punish or reward (dis)honest incumbents. Audits may have also altered the types of candidates who enter into politics. What's more, negative audit results can generate reputational costs and potential legal punishments.\n\nThe Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) is an Indonesian government program, financed by the World Bank which funds village-level small-scale infrastructure programs. Benjamin Olken implemented a randomized experiment in which he randomly assigned 608 villages into groups with different audit probabilities prior to the start of a nationwide infrastructure project.\n\nA random sample of villages were informed that the project would be audited by an audit agency once completed. This increased the probability of detection from 4% to 100%. The audit results were publicly disseminated by the auditors during village meetings. Olken also designed experiments to increase local members' participation in 'accountability meetings' where officials in charge of the road-building project expose how the budget will be spent.\n\nTo assess the impact of both monitoring mechanisms, the researcher uses a quantitative measure of corruption levels based on engineers' assessment of the quantity of materials used to build the roads and estimated costs. The discrepancies between project’s official costs reported by village project leaders and the costs estimated by independent engineers measures missing expenditures which are used as a proxy for corruption in Olken's study. It was estimated that on average 24% of materials were missing based on road samples, suggesting that part of the project funds were diverted. Olken finds that increasing the probability of external audits significantly reduced missing expenditures (by 8%), and that this approach to fighting corruption is cost-effective. Top-down audits were more effective when village elections were close, which implies that local level accountability can be effective in restraining corrupt behaviour. However, the interventions to increase grassroots participation did not have any significant effects on missing funds.\n\nPolitical economy dynamics condition the success of civil service reforms. North et al. argue that some developing countries function as 'limited access orders' in which elites exclude broad cross-sections of society to maintain an equilibrium that enables them to extracts rents. In such an equilibrium, political elites have no incentives to break down their patronage networks and introduce meritocratic recruitment reforms in the civil service as it would threaten their position and reduce their opportunities for rent-seeking. The clientelist system on the contrary can be a powerful mechanism through which elites maintain this 'limited access order'. Considerably depending on clientelist and patronage networks increases the costs of implementing public sector reforms. Elites will therefore be likely to oppose reforms as they stand to lose the most.\n\nWhat's more, civil service reforms are costly to implement in the short-term while their benefits will be manifested and reaped in the future. Governments are thus unwilling to make such unappealing investment. The long-term nature of reforms and the reluctance to initiate, gather and maintain support for reforms prevent their implementation in the first place. In a background paper for the 2011 World Bank Development Report, de Weijer and Pritchett appraise that it would take about 20 years to witness improvements in the functional capability of the state. In almost every countries, this exceeds the average duration of a term of office, political incumbents would have no incentives to incur the costs to carry out reforms while the benefits will accrue to future incumbents.\n\nIn addition, bureaucratic inertia and resistance to change should not be overlooked. Bureaucrats may be disinclined to accept changes brought by civil service reforms. This is especially true in countries where bureaucrats depend on informal or illegal channels to complement their meager salaries.\n\nInstitutional structures or types of political regimes also matter for reform implementation and success. In a democratic regime, political incumbents may see it in their interests to initiate bureaucratic reforms if voters value and acknowledge the public benefits of reforms. However, demand for civil service reforms remains weak in developing countries. Even if bureaucratic corruption is condemned across countries, the internal demand for anti-corruption reforms is undermined by a collective action problem. Indeed, Persson, Rohstein and Teorell argue that civil service reforms have failed as a result of their mischaracterization of corruption. Most approaches to civil service reform rely on principal-agent frameworks that assume that 'principled principals' are public-spirited and will always take on the task to fight corruption and improve bureaucratic performance. However, the authors contend that, in contexts where corruption is pervasive, actors will not necessarily respond to incentives aiming at altering their behaviour but instead behave based on the extent to which corruption is the expected behaviour in society.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24399752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24399752", "title": "Daniel Ek", "text": "Daniel Ek\n\nDaniel Ek (born 21 February 1983) is a Swedish billionaire entrepreneur and technologist. Ek is best known as the co-founder and CEO of the music streaming service Spotify.\n\nEk grew up in Rågsved, Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nEk graduated from the Royal Institute of Technology in Sundbyberg in 2002, and subsequently studied engineering at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology before dropping out to focus on his IT career. \n\nEk's first foray into the business world began at age 13 when he started a business making websites for clients from his home. He charged the first client $100, but then charged the next client who asked $200. Eventually, he started charging $5,000 per website. To help expand the business, Ek recruited students from his class to work on the websites from the school computer lab by bribing them with video games. His earnings eventually reached $50,000 per month and by age 18 he was managing a team of 25. Ek's parents started to notice his earnings once he started bringing home large TVs.\n\nEk later served in a senior role at Nordic auction company Tradera which was acquired by Ebay in 2006. Ek also served as the CTO of browser based game and fashion community Stardoll. Ek later started another company Advertigo, an online advertising company. Advertigo sold to TradeDoubler in 2006. After selling Advertigo, Ek briefly became the CEO of μTorrent, working with μTorrent founder Ludvig Strigeus. This ended when μTorrent was sold to BitTorrent on December 7 of 2006. Strigeus would later join Ek as a Spotify developer.\n\nThe sale of Advertigo as well as his previous work made Ek wealthy enough that he decided to retire. However, after a few months Ek realized that money was meaningless without a project he was passionate about which led to the founding of Spotify. Ek first had the idea for Spotify in 2002 when peer-to-peer music service Napster shut down and another illegal site Kazaa took over. Ek said he \"realised that you can never legislate away from piracy. Laws can definitely help, but it doesn't take away the problem. The only way to solve the problem was to create a service that was better than piracy and at the same time compensates the music industry – that gave us Spotify.\"\n\nEk incorporated Spotify AB with Martin Lorentzon in Stockholm, Sweden in 2006. Lorentzon had previously worked at and co-founded TradeDoubler which had acquired Ek's previous company Advertigo. In October 2008, the company launched its legal music streaming service Spotify. Initially, Spotify ran on a peer-to-peer distribution model, similar to uTorrent, but switched to a server-client model in 2014. Ek serves as CEO of Spotify. In October 2015, Spotify Co-Founder Martin Lorentzon announced he would be stepping down as Chairman and Ek would be taking over alongside his current role as CEO. As of June 2017, Spotify has 140 million active users and has raised over $2.5 billion in venture funding.\n\nIn 2017, Daniel Ek was named as the most powerful person in the music industry by \"Billboard\".\n\nIn 2016, Ek and fellow Spotify co-founder Martin Lorentzon wrote an open letter on the blogging platform Medium to the Swedish government saying that if certain changes to Swedish law regarding housing, taxation, and education are not made Spotify will be forced to re-locate from the country. More specifically, Ek claims that the high taxes in Sweden on stock options makes it difficult to incentivize programmers to work at startups when startups have trouble competing with larger companies on salary. Moreover, Ek claims Swedish permitting policy is overly restrictive limiting the supply of affordable housing. Opponents of Ek, however, have argued Spotify is hypocritically moving many jobs to New York City which has many of the same affordability issues. \n\nIn 2016, Ek married Sofia Levander, his longtime partner, at Lake Como. At Ek's wedding Bruno Mars was invited to perform and Chris Rock officiated; he invited numerous guests, including Mark Zuckerberg. Ek and his wife have two children together.\n\nIt was reported in 2016 that Ek owns approximately $825 million of Spotify, when it was valued at $8 billion. Spotify has since been valued at $16 billion which would put Ek's share at $1.6 billion assuming he has not sold any of his stake.\n"}
{"id": "37477297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37477297", "title": "De Dietrich", "text": "De Dietrich\n\nThe history of the de Dietrich family has been linked to that of France and of Europe for over three centuries.\nTo this day, the company that bears the family name continues to play a major role in the economic life of Alsace.\nDe Dietrich is a holding company based in France which traces its history back to 1684. The incumbent chairman of the supervisory board Marc-Antoine de Dietrich represents the 11th consecutive generation at the helm of the company.\nDe Dietrich has been active in the automobile, railway and industrial equipment industry amongst others.\n\n\"1684 :\" Johann von Dietrich acquires the Jaegerthal forge.\n\n\"1719 :\" The family is made Baron by the Holy Roman Empire.\n\n\"1749-1751 :\" Baron Jean de Dietrich has the castle and gardens of Château de la Cour d'Angleterre built in Bischheim near Strasbourg\n\n\"1761 :\" Baron Jean de Dietrich is made Count du Ban de la Roche by Louis XV. He becomes the largest land owner in Alsace and expands the family's industrial empire by building or acquiring forges and furnaces.\n\"1778 :\" Louis XVI grants Jean de Dietrich the use of a hunting horn trademark to deter counterfeiters. This logo still serves as a symbol of quality today.\n\n\"1792 :\" Philippe-Frédéric de Dietrich (Jean's son), first mayor of Strasbourg in republican France, orders captain Rouget de Lisle to compose a military hymn for the Army of the Rhine. First sung in Philippe-Frederic's parlor on Place Broglie, \"La Marseillaise\" became France's national anthem.\n\n\"1804 :\" After the havoc left by the French Revolution, Napoleon Bonaparte helps De Dietrich rebuild.\n\n\"1848 :\" De Dietrich embraces the industrial era by progressively reducing the production of cast irons in favor of mechanical and railroad equipment.\n\n\"1870 :\" Despite the annexation by Germany of Alsace-Lorraine, the Dietrich family decides to remain close to the factories and employees and stays in Alsace. This choice calls for a diversification of De Dietrich's activities in order to adapt to German market demands and having been effectively shun out of the French railroad market. The company then turns towards consumer durables: stoves, cookers, wooden furniture, enameled cast iron bathtubs – and urban or industrial equipment – tramways, distillation equipment, industry specific wagons.\n\n\"1896 :\" De Dietrich enters automobile manufacturing. Eugene, Baron de Turckheim, buys manufacturing rights to Amédée Bollée, \"fils\"' design. During its automotive development it hired amongst others the services of famous car builder Ettore Bugatti to design of the cars and Émile Mathis to handle commercialization.\n\n\"1905 :\" De Dietrich decides to pull out of automobile manufacturing to focus on mechanical construction, railroad equipment, process systems, central heating equipment and appliances.\n\n\"1992 :\" De Dietrich assumes control of Cogifer, market leader fixed railroad installations and forgives control of the appliances business to Thomson, control later on assumed by Fagor-Brandtuntil this day.\n\n\"1995 :\" De Dietrich sells its interest in rolling stock railroad equipment manufacturing \"De Dietrich Ferroviaire\" (DDF's factory is in Reichshoffen\". A majority stake in DDF was acquired by Alstom and the company is now known as Alstom-DDF.\n\n\"2000 :\" After the successive acquisitions of Rosenmund-Guedu and QVF, De Dietrich renames its chemical equipment division \"De Dietrich Process Systems\". De Dietrich is the object a Public Tender Offer by the la Société Industrielle du Hanau (SIH), controlled by ABN AMRO Capital Investissement France and the De Dietrich family.\n\n\"2001 :\" In July 2001, after 50 years of quotation, De Dietrich is pulled out the market.\n\n\"2002 :\" In September 2002, De Dietrich sells the control of Cogifer and Cogifer TF, to Vossloh a German Industrial group specialized in railroad equipment. In December 2002, the \"Société Industrielles du Hanau\" takes over De Dietrich & Cie and assumes the name \"De Dietrich\".\n\n\"2004 :\" In July 2004, De Dietrich divests from \"De Dietrich Thermique\", market leader in water heating equipment to Remeha. The new entity formed De Dietrich Remeha, becomes one of Europe's largest heating industry player, particularly in the fields of condensing boilers and renewable energies.\n\nIn December 2004, the family regained 100% control of the holding company. This operation represents one of Europe's largest family re-investments in recent years. De Dietrich today focuses on De Dietrich Process Systems(DDPS). DDPS is a leading worldwide provider of API process and other process equipment to the pharmaceutical and fine chemical industries. with an industrial presence in Asia, Europe and USA. The latest factories added to the Group are located in Hyderabad and Wuxi.\n\n Demange Dietrich (1549-), Strasbourg bourgeois\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5305657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5305657", "title": "Domar aggregation", "text": "Domar aggregation\n\nDomar aggregation is an approach to aggregating growth measures associated with industries to make larger sector or national aggregate growth rates. The issue comes up in the context of national accounts and multifactor productivity (MFP)statistics.\n\nThe objective is to construct the growth rate of an aggregate MFP, a sector or national total, as a weighted average of the MFP growth rates of its component industries, usually in order to discuss how the industry-specific changes affected the aggregate. The weights on each industry are called Domar weights. The Domar weight for each industry when adding their MFPs together are the ratios of the nominal value of each industry's gross output to the sum of value-added output of all the industries together. The objective is to properly account for effects of productivity changes in intermediate goods and industries whose goods are both output and inputs for other industries. By construction, Domar weights sum up to a figure larger than 1.0. The term \"market value of the industry's output\" can be used in place of the accounting term \"gross output.\" \n\nThis methodology was introduced by Evsey Domar (1961). Economist Charles Hulten developed this theory more formally in a model of a closed economy.\n\nHulten (1978) used \"observed expenditure shares\" as weights, and in that model \"the first-order impact on output of a TFP shock to a firm or an industry is equal to that industry or firm’s sales as a share of output.\"\n"}
{"id": "332168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332168", "title": "Downtown Houston", "text": "Downtown Houston\n\nDowntown is the largest business district in Houston, Texas, located near the geographic center of the metropolitan area at the confluence of Interstate 10, Interstate 45, and Interstate 69. The district, enclosed by the aforementioned highways, contains the original townsite of Houston at the confluence of Buffalo Bayou and White Oak Bayou, a point known as Allen's Landing. Downtown has been the city's preeminent commercial district since its founding in 1836.\n\nToday home to nine Fortune 500 corporations, Downtown contains of office space and is the workplace of 150,000 employees. Downtown is also a major destination for entertainment and recreation. Nine major performing arts organizations are located within the 13,000-seat Theater District at prominent venues including Alley Theatre, Hobby Center for the Performing Arts, Jones Hall, and the Wortham Theater Center. Two major professional sports venues, Minute Maid Park and the Toyota Center, are home to the Houston Astros and Houston Rockets, respectively. Discovery Green, an urban park located on the east side of the district adjacent to the George R. Brown Convention Center, anchors the city's convention district.\n\nDowntown is Houston's civic center, containing Houston City Hall, the jail, criminal, and civil courthouses of Harris County, and a federal prison and courthouse. Downtown is also a major public transportation hub, lying at the center of the light rail system, park and ride system, and the metropolitan freeway network; the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) is headquartered in the district. Over 100,000 people commute through Downtown daily. An extensive network of pedestrian tunnels and skywalks connects a large number of buildings in the district; this system also serves as a subterranean mall.\n\nGeographically, Downtown is bordered by East Downtown to the east, Third Ward to the south, Midtown to the southwest, Fourth Ward to the west, Sixth Ward to the northwest, and Near Northside to the north. The district's streets form a strict grid plan of approximately 400 square blocks, oriented at a southwest to northeast angle. The northern end of the district is crossed by Buffalo Bayou, the banks of which function as a linear park with a grade-separated system of hike-and-bike trails.\n\nDowntown Houston is a area bounded by Interstate 45, Interstate 69/U.S. Highway 59, and Interstate 10/U.S. Highway 90. Several sub-districts exist within Downtown, including:\n\nDowntown Houston encompasses the original townsite of Houston. After the Texas Revolution, two New York real estate investors, John Kirby Allen and Augustus Chapman Allen, purchased of land from Thomas F.L. Parrot and his wife, Elizabeth (John Austin's widow), for US$9,428 (). The Allen brothers settled at the confluence of White Oak and Buffalo bayous, a spot now known as Allen's Landing.\n\nA team of three surveyors, including Gail Borden, Jr. (best known for inventing condensed milk) and Moses Lapham, platted a 62-square-block townsite in the fall of 1836, each block approximately 250 by 250 feet, or in size. The grid plan was designed to conform to the winding route of Buffalo Bayou; east-west streets were aligned at an angle of north 55º west, while north-south streets were at an angle of south 35º west. Each block was subdivided into 12 lots – five 50-by-100 foot lots on each side of the block, and two 50-by-125 foot lots between the rows of five. The Allen brothers, motivated by their vision for urban civic life, specified wide streets to easily accommodate commercial traffic and reserved blocks for schools, churches, and civic institutions. The townsite was then cleared and drained by a team of Mexican prisoners and black slaves. By April 1837, Houston featured a dock, commercial district, the capitol building of the Republic of Texas, and an estimated population of 1,500. The first city hall was sited at present-day Market Square Park in 1841; this block also served as the city's preeminent retail market.\n\nThe relocation of the Texan republic's capital to Houston required a significant political campaign by the Allen brothers. The Allens gifted a number of city blocks to prominent Texas politicians and agreed to construct the new capitol building and a large hotel at no cost to the government. The Allens also donated blocks to celebrities, relatives, prominent lawyers, and other influential people in order to attract additional investment and speculation to the town. During the late 1830s and early 1840s, Houston was in the midst of a land boom, and lots were selling at \"enormous prices,\" according to a visitor to the town in 1837.\n\nDespite the efforts of the Allen brothers and high economic interest in the town, first few years of Houston's existence were plagued by yellow fever epidemics, flooding, searing heat, inadequate infrastructure, and crime. Houston suffered from woefully inadequate city services; the Allens failed to accommodate transit, water service, sewerage, road paving, trash service, or gas service in their plans. As a result, in 1839 the Texas Capitol was moved to Austin.\n\nIn 1840, Houston adopted a ward system of municipal governance, which, at the time, was considered more democratic than a strong-mayor system and had already been adopted by the United States' largest cities. The boundaries of the original four wards of Houston radiated out from the intersection of Main and Congress streets; the First Ward was located to the northwest, Second to the northeast, Third to the southeast, and Fourth to the southwest. Fifth Ward was created in 1866, encompassing the area north of Buffalo Bayou and east of White Oak Bayou; Sixth Ward, the final addition to the system, replaced the section of Fourth Ward north of Buffalo Bayou in 1877. The ward system, which featured elected aldermen who served as representatives of each neighborhood, remained Houston's form of municipal government until 1905, when the city switched to a commission government and the wards, as political entities, were dissolved.\n\nHouston grew steadily thorughout the late 19th century, and the neighborhoods within the boundaries of modern Downtown diversified. To the northeast, around present-day Minute Maid Park, Quality Hill emerged as an elite neighborhood, occupied by entrepreneurs like William Marsh Rice (namesake of Rice University), William J. Hutchins, and William L. Foley (namesake of Foley's department stores). The neighborhood was well known for its opluent residential architecture, often in the Greek Revival style. To the north, along a bend in Buffalo Bayou, the working-class neighborhood of Frost Town welcomed immigrants from Europe and Mexico during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nPrior to the arrival of the first streetcars in Houston in the 1870s, most development in the city had been centered in and around the present-day Downtown area. One of the first systems, the Houston City Street Railway, opened in 1874 with four lines along the principal commercial thoroughfares in the heart of the business district. While generally focused on the most prosperous areas of town, the Houston City Street Railway extended one line a full mile south of the center of the city, making it the first streetcar network designed to spur residential development. By the 1890s, new, larger local streetcar companies finally accumulated the capital necessary to begin constructing streetcar suburbs beyond the conventional boundaries of the city. This led to the development and rapid growth of areas like the Houston Heights and Montrose. Residential development subsequently moved out of the central business district; Quality Hill was virtually abandoned by the turn of the 20th century.\n\nDowntown's growth can be attributed to two major factors: The first arose after the Galveston Hurricane of 1900, when investors began seeking a location close to the ports of Southwest Texas, but apparently free of the dangerous hurricanes that frequently struck Galveston and other port cities. Houston became a wise choice, as only the most powerful storms were able to reach the city. The second came a year later with the 1901 discovery of oil at Spindletop, just south of Beaumont, Texas. Shipping and oil industries began flocking to east Texas, many settling in Houston. From that point forward the area grew substantially, as many skyscrapers were constructed, including the city's tallest buildings. In the 1980s, however, economic recession canceled some projects and caused others to be scaled back, such as the Bank of the Southwest Tower.\n\nIn the 19th century much of what was the Third Ward, the present day east side of Downtown Houston, was what Stephen Fox, an architectural historian who lectured at Rice University, referred to as \"the elite neighborhood of late 19th-century Houston.\" Ralph Bivins of the \"Houston Chronicle\" wrote that Fox said that area was \"a silk-stocking neighborhood of Victorian-era homes.\" Bivins said that the construction of Union Station, which occurred around 1910, caused the \"residential character\" of the area to \"deteriorate.\" Hotels opened in the area to service travelers. Afterwards, according to Bivins, the area \"began a long downward slide toward the skid row of the 1990s\" and the hotels devolved into flophouses. Passenger trains stopped going to Union Station in 1974. The construction of Interstate 45 in the 1950s separated portions of the historic Third Ward from the rest of the Third Ward and brought those portions into Downtown.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s the development of the 610 Loop caused the focus of the Houston area to move away from Downtown Houston. Joel Barna of \"Cite 42\" said that this caused Greater Houston to shift from \"a fragmenting but still centrally focused spatial entity into something more like a doughnut,\" and that Downtown Houston began to become a \"hole\" in the \"doughnut.\" As interchange connections with the 610 Loop opened, according to Barna Downtown \"became just another node in a multi-node grid\" and, as of 1998, \"has been that, with already established high densities and land prices.\" In the mid-1980s, the bank savings and loan crisis forced many tenants in Downtown Houston buildings to retrench, and some tenants went out of business. Barna said that this development further caused Downtown Houston to decline.\n\nThe Gulf Hotel fire occurred in 1943.\n\nAreas which are now considered part of Downtown were once within Third and the Fourth wards; the construction of Interstate 45 in the 1950s separated the areas from their former communities and placed them in Downtown. Additional freeway construction in the 1960s and 1970s solidified the current boundaries of Downtown. Originally, Downtown was the most important retail area of Houston. Suburban retail construction in the 1970s and 1980s reduced Downtown's importance in terms of retail activity.\n\nFrom 1971 to 2018, about 40 downtown buildings and other properties have been listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe onset of the 1980s oil glut had devastating economic consequences for Downtown. In the mid-1980s, a bank savings and loan crisis forced many tenants in Downtown Houston buildings to retrench, and some went out of business. This development further caused Downtown Houston to decline. In 1986, Downtown's Class A office occupancy rate was 81.4%. The Downtown Houston business occupancy rate of all office space increased from 75.8% at the end of 1987 to 77.2% at the end of 1988. By the late 1980s, 35% of Downtown Houston's land area consisted of surface parking. In the early 1990s Downtown Houston still had more than 20% vacant office space. By 1987 many of the office buildings in Downtown Houston were owned by non-U.S. real estate figures.\nOn April 5, 1986, the entire Downtown area was transformed as part of a concert by French musician Jean Michel Jarre. Called Rendez-Vous Houston, the open-air show used the skyscrapers as giant projection screens, and as launchpads for fireworks. The show celebrated 25 years of NASA, 150 years of Texas, and was a tribute to the astronauts killed in the recent Challenger Disaster. The show attracted a then-record live audience of 1.3 million people.\n\nDowntown began to rebound from the oil crisis by the mid-1990s. A dozen companies relocated to Downtown in 1996 alone, bringing 2,800 jobs and filling of space. In 1997 Tim Reylea, the vice president of Cushman Realty, said that \"None of the major central business districts across the country has seen the suburban-to-downtown shift that Houston has.\"\n\nBy 2000, demand for Downtown office space increased, and construction of office buildings resumed. The cutbacks by firms such as Dynegy, in addition to the fall of Enron, caused the occupancy rate of Downtown Houston buildings to decrease to 84.1% in 2003 from 97.3% less than two years previously. In 2003, the types of firms with operations in Downtown Houston typically were accounting firms, energy firms, and law firms. Typically newer buildings had higher occupancy rates than older buildings. In 2004, the real estate firm Cresa Partners stated that the vacancy rate in Downtown Houston's Class A office space was almost 20%. The Texas Legislature established the Downtown Houston Management District in 1995.\n\nIn recent years, Downtown has experienced a boom in high-rise residential construction, spurred in large part by the Downtown Living Initiative (DLI), a tax incentive program created by the city. Between 2013 and 2015, the DLI subsidized 5,000 proposed residential units. As a result, Downtown's residential population has increased to 10,165 people in 4,777 units, up from 900 units in the 1995. Many of Downtown's older residential units are located in lofts and converted commercial space, many of which are located around the performance halls of the Houston Theater District and near Main Street in the Historic District. In spring 2009, luxury high-rise One Park Place opened-up with 346 units. In early 2017 Downtown's largest residential building opened when Market Square Tower's 463 units were completed.\n\nDevelopers have invested more than US$4 billion in the first decade of the 21st century to transform Downtown into an active city center with residential housing, a nightlife scene and new transportation. The Cotswold Project, a $62 million project started in 1998, has helped to rebuild the streets and transform 90 downtown blocks into a pedestrian-friendly environment by adding greenery, trees and public art. January 1, 2004 marked the opening of the \"new\" Main Street, a plaza with many eateries, bars and nightclubs, which brings many visitors to a newly renovated locale.\n\nPhoenicia Specialty Foods opened a downtown grocery store in 2011, located in One Park Place.\n\nIn the 1960s, downtown comprised a modest collection of mid-rise office structures, but has since grown into one of the largest skylines in the United States. In 1960, the central business district had 10 million square feet (930,000 m²) of office space, increasing to about 16 million square feet (1,500,000 m²) in 1970. Downtown Houston was on the threshold of a boom in 1970 with 8.7 million square feet (800,000 m²) of office space planned or under construction and huge projects being launched by real estate developers. The largest proposed development was the 32-block Houston Center. Only a small part of the original proposal was ultimately constructed, however. Other large projects included the Cullen Center, Allen Center, and towers for Shell Oil Company. The surge of skyscrapers mirrored the skyscraper booms in other cities, such as Los Angeles and Dallas. Houston experienced another downtown construction spurt in the 1970s with the energy industry boom.\nThe first major skyscraper to be constructed in Houston was the 50-floor, 218 m (714 ft) One Shell Plaza in 1971. A succession of skyscrapers were built throughout the 1970s, culminating with Houston's tallest skyscraper, the 75-floor, 305 m (1,002 ft) JPMorgan Chase Tower (formerly the Texas Commerce Tower), which was completed in 1982. In 2002, it was the tallest structure in Texas, ninth-tallest building in the United States, and the 23rd tallest skyscraper in the world. In 1983, the 71-floor, 296 m (970 ft) Wells Fargo Plaza was completed, which became the second-tallest building in Houston and Texas, and 11th-tallest in the country. Skyscraper construction in downtown Houston came to an end in the mid-1980s with the collapse of Houston's energy industry and the resulting economic recession.\n\nTwelve years later, the Houston-based Enron Corporation began constructing a 40-floor, 1,284,013sq.ft skyscraper in 1999 (which was completed in 2002) with the company collapsing in one of the most dramatic corporate failures in the history of the United States only two years later. Chevron bought this building to set up a regional upstream energy headquarters, and in late 2006 announced further consolidation of employees downtown from satellite suburban buildings, and even California and Louisiana offices by leasing the original Enron building across the street. Both buildings are connected by a second-floor unique walk-across, air-conditioned circular skybridge with three points of connection to both office buildings and a large parking deck. Other smaller office structures were built in the 2000–2003 period. As of January 2015, downtown Houston had more than 44 million square feet (4,087,733 m²) of office space, including more than 29 million square feet (1,861,704 m²) of class A office space.\n\nNotable buildings that form Houston's downtown skyline:\n\n\nDowntown is Houston's single largest office market, containing of space. A premium submarket, Downtown commands the highest office rental rates in the city and was one of the ten most expensive office markets in the United States in 2016. Louisiana Street, which runs through the heart of the district, is one of the fifteen most expensive streets in the United States.\n\n3,500 businesses in the district employ approximately 150,000 workers. Major employers include Chevron, JPMorgan Chase, Shell Oil Company, and United Airlines.\nDowntown Houston has between 35% and 40% of the Class A office locations of the business districts in Houston.\n\nFirms which are headquartered in Downtown include:\n\nContinental Airlines (now known as United Airlines) formerly had its headquarters in Continental Center I. At one point, ExpressJet Airlines had its headquarters in Continental's complex. In September 1997 Continental Airlines announced it would consolidate its Houston headquarters in the Continental Center complex; the airline scheduled to move its employees in stages beginning in July 1998 and ending in January 1999. Bob Lanier, Mayor of Houston, said that he was \"tickled to death\" by the airline's move to relocate to Downtown Houston. Tim Reylea, the vice president of Cushman Realty, said that the Continental move \"is probably the largest corporate relocation in the central business district of Houston ever.\"\n\nHotel operators in Downtown reacted favorably, predicting that the move would cause an increase in occupancy rates in their hotels. In 2008 Continental renewed its lease in the building. Before the lease renewal, rumors spread stating that the airline would relocate its headquarters to office space outside of Downtown. Steven Biegel, the senior vice president of Studley Inc. and a representative of office building tenants, said that if Continental's space went vacant, the vacancy would not have had a significant impact in the Downtown Houston submarket as there is not an abundance of available space, and the empty property would be likely that another potential tenant would occupy it. Jennifer Dawson of the \"Houston Business Journal\" said that if Continental Airlines left Continental Center I, the development of Brookfield Properties's new office tower would have been delayed. As of September 2011 the headquarters moved out, but Continental will continue to house employees in the building. It will have about half of the employees that it once had.\n\nJPMorgan Chase Bank has its Houston operations headquartered in the JPMorgan Chase Building (Gulf Building). LyondellBasell (and predecessor company Lyondell Chemical Company) has offices in 1 Houston Center which was renamed LyondellBasell Towers. Hess Corporation has exploration and production operations in One Allen Center., but will move its offices to the under construction Hess Tower (Named after the company) upon its completion.\n\nExxonMobil has Exploration and Producing Operations business headquarters at the ExxonMobil Building. Qatar Airways operates an office within Two Allen Center; it also has a storefront in the Houston Pavilions. Enbridge has its Houston office in the Enterprise Plaza. KPMG has their Houston offices in the new BG place at 811 Main St. Mayer Brown has his Houston office in the Bank of America Center.\n\nWhen Texas Commerce Bank existed, its headquarters were in what is now the JPMorgan Chase Building (Gulf Building). Prior to its collapse in 2001, Enron was headquartered in Downtown. In 2005 Federated Department Stores announced that it will close Foley's 1,200 employee headquarters in Downtown Houston.\n\nHouston Industries (HI, later Reliant Energy) and subsidiary Houston Power & Lighting (HL&P) historically had their headquarters in Downtown.\n\nHalliburton's corporate headquarters office was in 5 Houston Center. In 2001, Halliburton canceled a move to redevelop land in Westchase to house employees; real estate figures associated with Downtown Houston approved of the news. Nancy Sarnoff of the \"Houston Business Journal\" said it made more sense for the company to lease existing space instead of constructing new office space in times of economic downturns. By 2009 Halliburton closed its Downtown Office, moved its headquarters to northern Houston, and consolidated operations at its northern Houston and Westchase facilities.\n\nTwo city council districts, District H and District I, cover portions of Downtown. As of 2015 Mayor Pro-Tem Ed Gonzalez and Robert Gallegos, respectively, represent the two districts.\n\nHouston City Hall, the Margaret Helfrich Westerman Houston City Hall Annex, and the Bob Lanier Public Works Building are all located in Downtown Houston.\n\nThe community is within the Houston Police Department's Downtown Division. The Edward A. Thomas Building, headquarters of HPD, is located in 1200 Travis Downtown.\n\nHouston Fire Department Station 8 Downtown at 1919 Louisiana Street serves the central business district. Station 8 is in Fire District 8. The fire station \"Washington #8\" first opened in 1895 at Polk at Crawford. The station was closed in 2001 after a sports arena was built on the site. Fire Station 1, which was located at 410 Bagby Street, closed in 2001, as it was merged with Station 8. Station 8, relocated to a temporary building at the corner of Milam and St. Joseph, reopened in June 2001. The current \"Super Station\" at 1919 Louisiana opened on April 21, 2008. \"Stonewall #3,\" organized in 1867, was located in the current location of the Post Rice Lofts. It 1895 it moved to a location along Preston Street, between Smith and Louisiana, in what is now Downtown. The station, currently Station #3, moved outside of the current day Downtown in 1903. Fire Station 5, originally in what was then the Fifth Ward, moved to Hardy and Nance in what is now Downtown in 1895. The station was rebuilt at that site in 1932, and in 1977 the station moved to Spring Branch. Station 2 moved from what is now the East End to what is now Downtown in 1926. The station moved to the Fourth Ward in 1965.\n\nThe Houston Downtown Management District and Central Houston, Inc. is headquartered in Suite 1650 at 2 Houston Center, a part of the Houston Center complex.\n\nDowntown is divided between Harris County Precinct 1 and Harris County Precinct 2. As of 2016, Gene L. Locke heads Precinct 1. As of 2016, Jack Morman heads Precinct 2. Harris County Precinct Two operates the Raul C. Downtown Courthouse annex in Downtown.\n\nThe Harris County court system is located within a five block area bounded by Franklin, San Jacinto, Caroline, and Congress Streets. This complex includes the following:\n\n\nAll are located around a central plaza, nicknamed \"Justice Square\", located above the underground Harris County Jury Plaza. Along with Harris County's facilities, there are several constable courts and support facilities nearby.\n\nThe Harris County jail facilities are in northern Downtown on the north side of the Buffalo Bayou. The 1200 Jail, the 1307 Jail, (originally a Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) facility, leased by the county), and the 701 Jail (formed from existing warehouse storage space) are on the same site.\n\nMuch of Downtown is located in District 147 of the Texas House of Representatives. As of 2016, Garnet F. Coleman represents the district. Some of Downtown is located in District 148 of the Texas House of Representatives. As of 2016, Jessica Farrar represents the district. Downtown is within District 13 of the Texas Senate; as of 2016 Rodney Ellis represents that district.\n\nJoe Kegans Unit, located in Downtown, is a Texas Department of Criminal Justice state jail for men. It is adjacent to the county facilities on the north side of the Buffalo Bayou. Kegans opened in 1997. The South Texas Intermediate Sanction Facility Unit, a parole confinement facility for males operated by Global Expertise in Outsourcing, is in Downtown Houston, west of Minute Maid Park.\n\nAs of 2011, the Texas First Court of Appeals and the Texas Fourteenth Court of Appeals are located in the renovated 1910 Courthouse.\n\nDowntown Houston is in Texas's 18th congressional district. As of 2016, its representative is Sheila Jackson Lee.\n\nThe United States Postal Service previously operated a Houston Post Office at 401 Franklin Street. The building, named after Barbara Jordan, was designed by the architects who designed the Houston Astrodome, opened in 1962 and received its current name in 1984. However, following the sale of the property, the U.S. Postal Service ceased operations at the facility on May 15, 2015 and consolidated its sorting operations. The Sam Houston Station, the new Houston Post Office on Hadley Street in Midtown Houston assumed the role held by the previous one. In 2010 the \"Houston Press\" ranked the former Downtown post office as the best post office in Houston. It became an event venue called Post HTX after the company Lovett Commercial took control of it in 2015.\n\nIn addition the USPS operates the 2 Houston Center and Civic Center postal units. In July 2011 the USPS announced that the two postal units may close.\n\nRegional offices of U.S. government agencies are located at the Mickey Leland Federal Building at 1919 Smith Street. The 22 story building, with a 6-story parking garage, was designated an Energy Star efficient building in 2000.\n\nThe United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas has its offices in 515 Rusk in Downtown Houston.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Prisons operates the Federal Detention Center, Houston in Downtown.\n\nThe Consulate-General of the United Kingdom is located in Wells Fargo Plaza, while the Consulate-General of Japan is located in Two Houston Center. The Consulate-General of Switzerland, which resided in Downtown Houston, closed in 2006.\n\nDowntown contains fifteen public parks, varying from linear parks along Buffalo Bayou to block parks and plazas.\n\nOn the west side of Downtown along Bagby Street, Sam Houston Park is home to the Houston Heritage Society, which maintains a collection of historic houses from throughout the city's history. Nearby, Tranquility Park uses open green spaces and a series of interconnected fountains to commemorate NASA's landing on the moon's Sea of Tranquility. These parks tie into the larger civic complex anchored by City Hall and the main branch of Houston Public Library.In the Historic District to the north, Market Square Park occupies a block formerly covered by Houston's open air market which fronted the old City Hall. Renovations completed in 2010 added two dog runs, a Greek restaurant, and Houston's only memorial to the September 11 attacks.\n\nBuffalo Bayou's route through Downtown contains multiple parks which segue together to form a continuous greenway. Allen's Landing, near the intersection of Smith and Preston, commemorates the landing site of the Allen brothers, the New York entrepreneurs who founded the city. Sesquicentennial Park, across Buffalo Bayou from Allen's Landing, commemorates the 150-year anniversary of the city's founding. The park contains a statue of former President George H. W. Bush, who represented a portion of west Houston during his time in the United States House of Representatives.In the Convention District, Discovery Green, immediately west of the George R. Brown Convention Center, contains an amphitheater, two restaurants, a dog run, a jogging trail, multiple lawns, and an artificial lake on nearly of land. Since its opening in 2008, Discovery Green has become one of Downtown's main attractions, hosting approximately 1.2 million visitors a year and serving as one of the city's premier public spaces. Discovery Green's environs, formerly covered by surface parking lots, have seen over US$600 million in new development since the park's opening.\n\nA number of other smaller parks and plazas are spread throughout Downtown. Main Street Square is a pedestrian-only promenade with a reflection pool and fountains on the METRORail line between Lamar and Dallas streets. Near the Toyota Center, Root Square occupies a single block and features a public basketball court. Harris County Precinct One operates the Quebedeaux Park near the county court complex. The park includes a stage area, picnic tables, and benches. The park surrounds the Harris County Family Law Center.\n\nDowntown hosts a branch of the YMCA, featuring a center for teenagers, a wellness center for females, a child watch area, a community meeting space, a chapel, group exercise rooms, and a racquetball court. The Downtown YMCA has provided dormitory space for around 100 years.\n\nKatharine Shilcutt of the \"Houston Press\" said in 2012 that because of the Houston tunnel system taking traffic during the daytime and many office workers leaving for suburbs at night, many street level restaurants in Downtown Houston have difficulty operating. She added that the popularity of business-related lunches and dinners resulted in steakhouses in Downtown becoming successful.\n\nIn 2018 the street artist Dual made a mural representing Produce Row, which was a group of produce businesses on Commerce Street, on the Main & Co. building; at the time the area was in the first ward.\n\nDowntown Houston has two major league sports venues. Minute Maid Park, opened in 2000, is home to MLB Houston Astros, and the Toyota Center, opened in 2003, is home to the NBA Houston Rockets. From 2004 to 2007, Toyota Center was also home to the now defunct WNBA Houston Comets.\n\nThe Theater District is one of the largest in the country as measured by the number of theater seats. Houston is one of only five cities in the United States with permanent professional resident companies in all of the major performing art disciplines of opera, ballet, music, and theater. Venues in the theater district include the Wortham Center (opera and ballet), the Alley Theatre (theater), the Hobby Center (resident and traveling musical theater, concerts, events), the Bayou Music Center (concerts and events) and Jones Hall (symphony).\n\nThe George R. Brown Convention Center is located on the east side of Downtown, between Discovery Green and Interstate 69, and contains of convention space and two adjoining hotels. In the mid-2010s, the promenade between the Center and Discovery Green was transformed into \"Avenida Houston\", a mixed-use corridor featuring restaurants and retail spaces.\n\nMajor hotels in downtown Houston are:\n\n\nBoutique hotels include:\n\n\nThe Shops in Houston Center, located within the Houston Center complex, is an enclosed shopping mall. A few blocks away, GreenStreet is an open-air shopping center. The Houston Downtown Tunnel System is also home to many shops and restaurants. Several restaurants in Downtown Houston are in the Tunnel system, only open during working hours.\nThe \"Houston Chronicle\", the citywide newspaper, previously had its headquarters in Downtown, but has since relocated. Beginning in 1998, \"Houston Press\" headquarters was located in Downtown, in the former Gillman Pontiac dealership building. On the weekend after Friday October 25, 2013 the \"Houston Press\" was scheduled to move to its new offices in Midtown Houston.\n\nThe magazine \"Houston Downtown\" was a Downtown-oriented magazine published by Rosie Walker. Most area residents called it the \"Downtowner.\" Walker was originally an office worker in Downtown Houston who was upset that she had learned of events occurring in Downtown Houston after they had already occurred. Walker said \"Several people in our office decided to start a newsletter. It sort of expanded throughout our company and throughout our building.\" It had been published for 14 years. In 1991 the business had paid off its debts. Walker decided not to take out loans to update her equipment and printing processes and instead closed the magazine during that year.\n\nThe \"Downtown, Inc.\"/\"Downtown Voice\" was another Downtown-related magazine. Kevin Clear of the Creneau Media Group planned to establish a magazine about Downtown Houston that would be published by Creneau. In January 1990 his company had developed a business plan aimed towards competing with \"Houston Downtown\" magazine. \"Houston Downtown\" was closed before Clear could develop a new magazine. Clear said \"I hate to say we danced on their grave, but we weren't unhappy about the way things turned out.\" Clear planned to introduce his magazine in May 1991. As of January 1991 he had not decided on a name for the magazine. Elise Perachio became the editor of the magazine, which was ultimately named \"Downtown, Inc.\" On August 1, 1994, the magazine, then called Downtown Voice, was sold to company Media Ink.\n\nRegional sports network AT&T SportsNet Southwest is headquartered in Downtown at GreenStreet.\n\nThe Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) operates Houston's public transportation systems. Downtown lies at the convergence of the three lines of Houston's light rail system, known as METRORail. The Red Line, which runs along Main Street, contains the following stations (from south to north): Downtown Transit Center, Bell, Main Street Square, Preston, and . The Southeast/Purple Line and East End/Green Lines stop at the Central, Convention District, and Theater District stations.\n\nMETRO operates many bus lines through Downtown. Greenlink, a free-to-ride circulator shuttle, follows a circular route around the district. Greenlink is the successor to a trolley-style free-to-ride bus service which carried over 10,000 riders each day on five different routes prior to its disbandment in 2005.\n\nThere are a number of taxi cabs that can be hailed from the street, twenty-one taxi stands, or at the various hotels. Taxi trips within Downtown have a flat rate of US$6, mandated by the city. Since the implementation of transportation network company ordinance in 2014, Uber continues to operate within the city and surrounding areas.\n\nThe University of Houston–Downtown (UHD) is a four-year state university, located at the northern-end of Downtown. Founded in 1974, it is one of four separate and distinct institutions in the University of Houston System. UHD has an enrollment of 14,255 students—making it the 15th largest public university in Texas and the second-largest university in the Houston area.\n\nThe South Texas College of Law is a private law school located within Downtown and is one of three law schools in Houston.\n\nDowntown is within the Houston Community College System, and it is in close proximity to the Central Campus in Midtown.\n\nThe grade-school children of Downtown are served by the Houston Independent School District (HISD).\n\nOne public K-8 school, an HISD-affiliated charter school called Young Scholars Academy for Excellence (Y.S.A.F.E.), is in Downtown. It was established on May 15, 1996 by Kenneth and Anella Coleman. HISD's High School for the Performing and Visual Arts (HSPVA), a public magnet high school, broke ground on a new downtown campus in 2014, and classes will begin there in Fall 2017, replacing HSPVA's current Montrose-area campus.\n\nThree public district elementary schools have zoning boundaries that extend to areas of Downtown with residential areas; they are:\n\nGregory Lincoln Education Center (in the Fourth Ward) takes most of Downtown's students at the middle school level. Marshall Middle School (in Northside) takes students at the middle school level from a small section of northern Downtown. Northside High School (formerly Jefferson Davis High School), also in Northside, takes students from almost all of Downtown at the high school level. Heights High School (formerly Reagan High School), in the Houston Heights, take students in the high school level from a small section of northwest Downtown.\n\nAs part of rezoning for the 2014-2015 school year, in Downtown all areas previously under the Blackshear attendance zone and many areas in the Bruce attendance zone will be rezoned to Gregory-Lincoln K-8.\n\nThe block bounded by Austin, Capitol, Caroline, and Rusk held schools for many years. Houston Academy was established there in the 1850s. In 1894 the groundbreaking for Central High School occurred there. Central burned down in March 1919. In 1921 Sam Houston High School opened at the site. The current Sam Houston building in the Northside opened in 1955. The previous building became the administrative headquarters of the Houston Independent School District. By the early 1970s HISD moved its headquarters out of the building, which was demolished. As of 2011 a parking lot occupies the former school lot; a state historical marker is located at the lot.\n\nBooker T. Washington High School's first location, 303 West Dallas, served as the school's location from 1893 to 1959, when it moved to the north. Lockett Junior High School was established in the former Washington campus and closed in 1968.\n\nAnson Jones Elementary School served a portion of Downtown until its closing in Summer 2006. Anson Jones opened in 1892 as the Elysian Street School; its first campus was destroyed in a fire, and that was replaced in 1893 with a three-story building at 914 Elysian in what is now Downtown. It was named after Anson Jones in 1902. In the 1950s many students resided in Clayton Homes and the students were majority Hispanic and Latino. In 1962 it had 609 students. Anson Jones moved to a new campus in the Second Ward in 1966, and its original campus in Downtown was demolished.\n\nBrock Elementary School served a portion of Downtown until its closing in Summer 2006 and repurposing as an early childhood center; its boundary was transferred to Crockett Elementary. Before the start of the 2009–2010 school year J. Will Jones was consolidated into Blackshear Elementary School, a campus in the Third Ward. During its final year of enrollment J. Will Jones had more students than Blackshear. Many J. Will Jones parents referred to Blackshear as \"that prison school\" and said that they will not send their children to Blackshear. By Spring 2011 Atherton Elementary School and E.O. Smith were consolidated with a new K-5 campus in the Atherton site. Middle school students in Downtown were rezoned to Gregory-Lincoln.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston oversees the Incarnate Word Academy, a Catholic all-girls school founded in 1873 and the only high school located in Downtown until the opening of the new HSPVA campus in 2017. Trinity Lutheran School, a PreK-8 Lutheran School, is located at 800 Houston Avenue, northwest of and in close proximity to Downtown. Its early childhood center is located at 1316 Washington Avenue, near the K-8 center and in proximity to Downtown.\n\nOn September 27, 1897 a school in the two-story annex to the Sacred Heart Parish, staffed by Dominican sisters, opened with 28 enrolled students. St. Thomas College (now known as St. Thomas High School) opened in Downtown in 1900. In 1902 the parish bought a building used by St. Thomas and moved it from Franklin Street at Crawford Street to Pierce Street and Fannin Street. In 1905 he parish sought and received approval from the state to start a high school; in January 1907 Saint Agnes Academy, outside of Downtown, opened and high school students were transferred to St. Agnes. In 1911 the former school building, known as the Green House, was demolished and replaced by a church building. In 1922 the existing Sacred Heart School building opened; the parish spent $52,800 ($ in today's currency) to build the building. St. Thomas moved to its current location, outside of Downtown, in 1940. The Sacred Heart School provided Catholic elementary education for 70 years until its closing in May 1967 after declining enrollment and increased operation costs. As of 2009 the former Sacred Heart building houses the diocese's parish religious education program.\n\nHouston Public Library has the Central Library in Houston. It consists of two buildings, including the Jesse H. Jones Building, which contains the bulk of the library facilities, and the Julia Ideson Building, which contains archives, manuscripts, and the Texas and Local History Department.\n\nHouston's first public library facility opened on March 2, 1904. The Ideson building opened in 1926, replacing the previous building. The Jesse H. Jones Building opened in 1976 and received its current name in 1989. The Jones Building closed for renovations on Monday April 3, 2006. It reopened May 31, 2008. After renovations began the Houston Public Library headquarters moved from the Jones Building to the Marston Building in Neartown Houston.\n\nIn addition, HPL operates the HPL Express Discovery Green at 1300 McKinney R2, adjacent to Discovery Green Park. HPL Express facilities are library facilities located in existing buildings. The library opened in 2008.\n\nHarris County Public Library operates the Law Library, located on the first floor of Congress Plaza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4527879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4527879", "title": "Electronics industry", "text": "Electronics industry\n\nThe electronics industry, especially meaning consumer electronics, emerged in the 20th century and has now become a global industry worth billions of dollars. Contemporary society uses all manner of electronic devices built in automated or semi-automated factories operated by the industry. Products are assembled from integrated circuits, principally by photolithography of printed circuit boards.\n\nThe size of the industry and the use of toxic materials, as well as the difficulty of recycling has led to a series of problems with electronic waste. International regulation and environmental legislation has been developed in an attempt to address the issues.\n\nThe electric power industry began in the 19th century and this led to the development of all manner of inventions. Gramophones were an early invention and this was followed by radio transmitters and receivers and televisions. The first digital computers were built in the 1940s with a slow development in technology and total sales. In the 1970s and 1980s, the vacuum tube, was largely supplanted by semiconductor components as the fundamental technology of the industry. In the 1990s the personal computer became popular. A large part of the electronics industry is now involved with digital technology.\n\nThe industry now employs large numbers of electronics engineers and electronics technicians to design, develop, test, manufacture, install, and repair electrical and electronic equipment such as communication equipment, medical monitoring devices, navigational equipment, and computers. Common parts manufactured are connectors, system components, cell systems, computer accessories, and these are made of alloy steel, copper, brass, stainless steel, plastic, steel tubing and other materials.\n\nConsumer electronics are products intended for everyday use, most often in entertainment, communications and office productivity. Radio broadcasting in the early 20th century brought the first major consumer product, the broadcast receiver. Later products include personal computers, telephones, MP3 players, audio equipment, televisions, calculators, GPS automotive electronics, digital cameras and players and recorders using video media such as DVDs, VCRs or camcorders. Increasingly these products have become based on digital technologies, and have largely merged with the computer industry in what is increasingly referred to as the consumerization of information technology.\n\nThe CEA (Consumer Electronics Association) estimated the value of 2017 consumer electronics sales at US$319 billion or INR ₹ 21,98,700cr..\n\nElectrical waste contains hazardous but also valuable and scarce materials and up to 60 elements can be found in complex electronics.\nThe United States and China are the world leaders in producing electronic waste, each tossing away about 3 million tons each year. China also remains a major e-waste dumping ground for developed countries. The UNEP estimate that the amount of e-waste being produced - including mobile phones and computers - could rise by as much as 500 percent over the next decade in some developing countries, such as India. \n\nIncreasing environmental awareness has led to changes in electronics design to reduce or eliminate toxic materials and to reduce energy consumption. The Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) were released by the European Commission in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38328166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38328166", "title": "Energy broker", "text": "Energy broker\n\nEnergy brokers assist clients in procuring electric or natural gas from energy wholesalers/suppliers. Since electricity and natural gas are commodities, prices change daily with the market. It is challenging for most businesses without energy managers to obtain price comparisons from a variety of suppliers since prices must be compared on exactly the same day. In addition, the terms of the particular contract offered by the supplier influences the price that is quoted. An energy broker can provide a valuable service if they work with a large number of suppliers and can actually compile the sundry prices from suppliers. An important aspect of this consulting role is to assure that the client understands the differences between the contract offers. Under some State Laws they use the term \"Suppliers\" to refer to energy suppliers, brokers, and aggregators, however there are very important differences between them all.\n\nEnergy brokers do not own or distribute energy, nor are allowed to sell energy directly to you. They simply present the rates of a wholesaler, or supplier.\n\nEnergy consultants offer a lot more than procuring energy contracts from a supplier. In the UK and Europe where there is a lot of legislation and increasing pressure for businesses and countries to do more to reduce their energy consumption a lot of services from brokers now help ensure businesses meet a lot of compliance and accreditation requirements such as the ESOS (energy saving opportunity scheme), ISO 50001, ISO 14001, Energy Performance Certificates and Display Energy Certificates.\nOther services include helping companies reduce energy consumption with the aim of meeting national and international carbon emission standards. Services include, energy health checks, energy audits, carbon zero, carbon offsetting and energy saving consulting.\n\nAdditional services such as arranging a power purchase agreement, energy export contracts can be procured as well as energy monitoring and reporting technology and solutions are also offered by energy consultants.\n\nIn the USA, energy brokers can serve residential, commercial and government entities that reside in energy deregulated states. In the UK, and some countries in Europe, the entire market is deregulated.\n\nEnergy brokers typically do not charge up front fees to provide rates. If an entity purchases energy through a broker, the broker's fee is usually included in the rate the customer pays. Some brokers will charge a fixed fee for their consulting services.\n\nNot all energy brokers are consultants; However, the energy brokers who are also consultants will perform a more detailed analysis of a consumers' usage pattern in order to provide a custom rate, which typically results in more cost savings for the consumer. Typically, they do not need any more information than that of an energy broker, because they can pull usage information from the local utility company. There are some national energy brokers that use auditing teams to verify their client's invoices.\n"}
{"id": "59212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59212", "title": "Free trade", "text": "Free trade\n\nFree trade is a trade policy that does not restrict imports or exports; it is the idea of the free market as applied to international trade. In government, free trade is predominately advocated by political parties that hold right-wing or liberal economic positions, while economically left-wing political parties generally support protectionism, the opposite of free trade.\n\nMost nations are today members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) multilateral trade agreements. Free trade is additionally exemplified by the European Economic Area and the Mercosur, which have established open markets. However, most governments still impose some protectionist policies that are intended to support local employment, such as applying tariffs to imports or subsidies to exports. Governments may also restrict free trade to limit exports of natural resources. Other barriers that may hinder trade include import quotas, taxes, and non-tariff barriers, such as regulatory legislation.\n\nThere is a broad consensus among economists that protectionism has a negative effect on economic growth and economic welfare, while free trade and the reduction of trade barriers has a positive effect on economic growth. However, liberalization of trade can cause significant and unequally distributed losses, and the economic dislocation of workers in import-competing sectors.\n\nFree trade policies generally promote the following features:\n\nTwo simple ways to understand the proposed benefits of free trade are through David Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage and by analyzing the impact of a tariff or import quota. An economic analysis using the law of supply and demand and the economic effects of a tax can be used to show the theoretical benefits and disadvantages of free trade.\n\nMost economists would recommend that even developing nations should set their tariff rates quite low, but the economist Ha-Joon Chang, a proponent of industrial policy, believes higher levels may be justified in developing nations because the productivity gap between them and developed nations today is much higher than what developed nations faced when they were at a similar level of technological development. Underdeveloped nations today, Chang believes, are weak players in a much more competitive system. Counterarguments to Chang's point of view are that the developing countries are able to adopt technologies from abroad, whereas developed nations had to create new technologies themselves, and that developing countries can sell to export markets far richer than any that existed in the 19th century.\n\nIf the chief justification for a tariff is to stimulate infant industries, it must be high enough to allow domestic manufactured goods to compete with imported goods in order to be successful. This theory, known as import substitution industrialization, is largely considered ineffective for currently developing nations.\n\nThe chart at the right analyzes the effect of the imposition of an import tariff on some imaginary good. Prior to the tariff, the price of the good in the world market (and hence in the domestic market) is P. The tariff increases the domestic price to P. The higher price causes domestic production to increase from Q to Q and causes domestic consumption to decline from Q to Q.\n\nThis has three main effects on societal welfare. Consumers are made worse off because the consumer surplus (green region) becomes smaller. Producers are better off because the producer surplus (yellow region) is made larger. The government also has additional tax revenue (blue region). However, the loss to consumers is greater than the gains by producers and the government. The magnitude of this societal loss is shown by the two pink triangles. Removing the tariff and having free trade would be a net gain for society.\n\nAn almost identical analysis of this tariff from the perspective of a net producing country yields parallel results. From that country's perspective, the tariff leaves producers worse off and consumers better off, but the net loss to producers is larger than the benefit to consumers (there is no tax revenue in this case because the country being analyzed is not collecting the tariff). Under similar analysis, export tariffs, import quotas, and export quotas all yield nearly identical results.\n\nSometimes consumers are better off and producers worse off, and sometimes consumers are worse off and producers are better off, but the imposition of trade restrictions causes a net loss to society because the losses from trade restrictions are larger than the gains from trade restrictions. Free trade creates winners and losers, but theory and empirical evidence show that the size of the winnings from free trade are larger than the losses.\n\nAccording to mainstream economic theory, the selective application of free trade agreements to some countries and tariffs on others can lead to economic inefficiency through the process of trade diversion. It is economically efficient for a good to be produced by the country which is the lowest cost producer, but this does not always take place if a high cost producer has a free trade agreement while the low cost producer faces a high tariff. Applying free trade to the high cost producer (and not the low cost producer as well) can lead to trade diversion and a net economic loss. This is why many economists place such high importance on negotiations for global tariff reductions, such as the Doha Round.\n\nThe literature analysing the economics of free trade is extremely rich with extensive work having been done on the theoretical and empirical effects. Though it creates winners and losers, the broad consensus among economists is that free trade is a large and unambiguous net gain for society. In a 2006 survey of American economists (83 responders), \"87.5% agree that the U.S. should eliminate remaining tariffs and other barriers to trade\" and \"90.1% disagree with the suggestion that the U.S. should restrict employers from outsourcing work to foreign countries.\"\n\nQuoting Harvard economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, \"Few propositions command as much consensus among professional economists as that open world trade increases economic growth and raises living standards.\" In a survey of leading economists, none disagreed with the notion that \"freer trade improves productive efficiency and offers consumers better choices, and in the long run these gains are much larger than any effects on employment.\"\n\nMost economists would agree that although increasing returns to scale might mean that certain industry could settle in a geographical area without any strong economic reason derived from comparative advantage, this is not a reason to argue against free trade because the absolute level of output enjoyed by both \"winner\" and \"loser\" will increase with the \"winner\" gaining more than the \"loser\" but both gaining more than before in an absolute level.\n\nThe notion of a free trade system encompassing multiple sovereign states originated in a rudimentary form in 16th century Imperial Spain. American jurist Arthur Nussbaum noted that Spanish theologian Francisco de Vitoria was \"the first to set forth the notions (though not the terms) of freedom of commerce and freedom of the seas.\" Vitoria made the case under principles of \"jus gentium\". However, it was two early British economists Adam Smith and David Ricardo who later developed the idea of free trade into its modern and recognizable form.\n\nEconomists who advocated free trade believed trade was the reason why certain civilizations prospered economically. Adam Smith, for example, pointed to increased trading as being the reason for the flourishing of not just Mediterranean cultures such as Egypt, Greece, and Rome, but also of Bengal (East India) and China. The great prosperity of the Netherlands after throwing off Spanish Imperial rule and pursuing a policy of free trade made the free trade/mercantilist dispute the most important question in economics for centuries. Free trade policies have battled with mercantilist, protectionist, isolationist, communist, populist, and other policies over the centuries.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire had liberal free trade policies by the 18th century, with origins in capitulations of the Ottoman Empire, dating back to the first commercial treaties signed with France in 1536 and taken further with capitulations in 1673, in 1740 which lowered duties to only 3% for imports and exports, and in 1790. Ottoman free trade policies were praised by British economists advocating free trade, such as J. R. McCulloch in his \"Dictionary of Commerce\" (1834), but criticized by British politicians opposing free trade, such as prime minister Benjamin Disraeli, who cited the Ottoman Empire as \"an instance of the injury done by unrestrained competition\" in the 1846 Corn Laws debate, arguing that it destroyed what had been \"some of the finest manufactures of the world\" in 1812.\nTrade in colonial America was regulated by the British mercantile system through the Acts of Trade and Navigation. Until the 1760s, few colonists openly advocated for free trade, in part because regulations were not strictly enforced – New England was famous for smuggling – but also because colonial merchants did not want to compete with foreign goods and shipping. According to historian Oliver Dickerson, a desire for free trade was not one of the causes of the American Revolution. \"The idea that the basic mercantile practices of the eighteenth century were wrong,\" wrote Dickerson, \"was not a part of the thinking of the Revolutionary leaders\".\n\nFree trade came to what would become the United States as a result of American Revolutionary War. After the British Parliament issued the Prohibitory Act, blockading colonial ports, the Continental Congress responded by effectively declaring economic independence, opening American ports to foreign trade on April 6, 1776. According to historian John W. Tyler, \"Free trade had been forced on the Americans, like it or not.\"\n\nIn March 1801 the Pope Pius VII ordered some liberalization of trade to face the economic crisis in the Papal States with the Motu Proprio \"Le più colte\"; despite this, the export of national corn was forbidden to ensure the food for the State.\nIn Britain, free trade became a central principle practiced by the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846. Large-scale agitation was sponsored by the Anti-Corn Law League. Under the Treaty of Nanking, China opened five treaty ports to world trade in 1843. The first free trade agreement, the Cobden-Chevalier Treaty, was put in place in 1860 between Britain and France, which led to successive agreements between other countries in Europe.\n\nMany classical liberals, especially in 19th and early 20th century Britain (e.g. John Stuart Mill) and in the United States for much of the 20th century (e.g., Henry Ford and Secretary of State Cordell Hull), believed that free trade promoted peace. Woodrow Wilson included free-trade rhetoric in his \"Fourteen Points\" speech of 1918:\n\nAccording to economic historian Douglas Irwin, a common myth about U.S. trade policy is that low tariffs harmed American manufacturers in the early 19th century and then that high tariffs made the United States into a great industrial power in the late 19th century. A review by the \"Economist\" of Irwin's 2017 book \"Clashing over Commerce: A History of US Trade Policy\" notes:Political dynamics would lead people to see a link between tariffs and the economic cycle that was not there. A boom would generate enough revenue for tariffs to fall, and when the bust came pressure would build to raise them again. By the time that happened, the economy would be recovering, giving the impression that tariff cuts caused the crash and the reverse generated the recovery. Mr Irwin also methodically debunks the idea that protectionism made America a great industrial power, a notion believed by some to offer lessons for developing countries today. As its share of global manufacturing powered from 23% in 1870 to 36% in 1913, the admittedly high tariffs of the time came with a cost, estimated at around 0.5% of GDP in the mid-1870s. In some industries, they might have sped up development by a few years. But American growth during its protectionist period was more to do with its abundant resources and openness to people and ideas.According to Paul Bairoch, since the end of the 18th century, the United States has been \"the homeland and bastion of modern protectionism\". In fact, the United States never adhered to free trade until 1945. For the most part, the \"Jeffersonians\" strongly opposed it. In the 19th century, statesmen such as Senator Henry Clay continued Hamilton's themes within the Whig Party under the name \"American System.\" The opposition Democratic Party contested several elections throughout the 1830s, 1840s, and 1850s in part over the issue of the tariff and protection of industry.\n\nIn the U.S., the Democratic Party favored moderate tariffs used for government revenue only, while the Whigs favored higher protective tariffs to protect favored industries. The economist Henry Charles Carey became a leading proponent of the \"American System\" of economics. This mercantilist \"American System\" was opposed by the Democratic Party of Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Buren, John Tyler, James K. Polk, Franklin Pierce, and James Buchanan.\n\nThe fledgling Republican Party led by Abraham Lincoln, who called himself a \"Henry Clay tariff Whig\", strongly opposed free trade and implemented a 44% tariff during the Civil War – in part to pay for railroad subsidies and for the war effort, and to protect favored industries.\nWilliam McKinley (later to become President of the United States) stated the stance of the Republican Party (which won every election for President from 1868 until 1912, except the two non-consecutive terms of Grover Cleveland) as thus:\n\nDuring the interwar period, economic protectionism took hold in the United States, most famously in the form of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, which is credited by economists with the prolonging and worldwide propagation of the Great Depression. From 1934, trade liberalization began to take place through the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act.\nIn \"Kicking Away the Ladder\", development economist Ha-Joon Chang reviews the history of free trade policies and economic growth, and notes that many of the now-industrialized countries had significant barriers to trade throughout their history. The United States and Britain, sometimes considered the homes of free trade policy, employed protectionism to varying degrees at all times. Britain abolished the Corn Laws, which restricted import of grain, in 1846 in response to domestic pressures, and it reduced protectionism for manufactures in the mid 19th century, when its technological advantage was at its height, but tariffs on manufactured products had returned to 23% by 1950. The United States maintained weighted average tariffs on manufactured products of approximately 40–50% up until the 1950s, augmented by the natural protectionism of high transportation costs in the 19th century. The most consistent practitioners of free trade have been Switzerland, the Netherlands, and to a lesser degree Belgium. Chang describes the export-oriented industrialization policies of the Four Asian Tigers as \"far more sophisticated and fine-tuned than their historical equivalents\".\n\nSome degree of protectionism is nevertheless the norm throughout the world. Most developed nations maintain controversial agricultural tariffs. From 1820 to 1980, the average tariffs on manufactures in twelve industrial countries ranged from 11 to 32%. In the developing world, average tariffs on manufactured goods are approximately 34%. The American economist C. Fred Bergsten devised the ‘bicycle theory’ to describe trade policy. According to this model trade policy is ‘dynamically unstable’, in that it constantly tends towards either liberalisation or protectionism. To prevent falling off the bike (the disadvantages of protectionism), trade policy and multilateral trade negotiations must constantly pedal towards greater liberalisation. To achieve greater liberalisation decision makers must appeal to the greater welfare for consumers and the wider national economy over narrower parochial interests. However, Bergsten also posits that it is also necessary to compensate the losers in trade and help them find new work, as this will both reduce the backlash against globalisation and the motives for trades unions and politicians to call for protection of trade.\n\nSince the end of World War II, in part due to industrial size and the onset of the Cold War, the United States has often been a proponent of reduced tariff-barriers and free trade. The U.S. helped establish the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and later the World Trade Organization (WTO); although it had rejected an earlier version in the 1950s (International Trade Organization or ITO). Since the 1970s, U.S. governments have negotiated managed-trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in the 1990s, the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) in 2006, and a number of bilateral agreements (such as with Jordan).\n\nIn Europe, six countries formed the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in 1951 which became the European Economic Community (EEC) in 1958. Two core objectives of the EEC were the development of a common market, subsequently renamed the single market, and establishing a customs union between its member states. After expanding its membership, the EEC became the European Union (EU) in 1993. The European Union, now the world's largest single market, has concluded free trade agreements with many countries around the world.\n\nMost countries in the world are members of the World Trade Organization, which limits in certain ways but does not eliminate tariffs and other trade barriers. Most countries are also members of regional free trade areas that lower trade barriers among participating countries. The EU and the US are negotiating a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. Initially led by the U.S., twelve countries that have borders on the Pacific Ocean are currently in private negotiations around the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is being touted by the negotiating countries as a free trade policy. In January 2017, the United States pulled out of negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Parternship.\n\nFree trade may apply to trade in services as well as in goods. Non-economic considerations may inhibit free trade: a country may espouse free trade in principle but (for example) ban certain drugs (such as alcohol) or certain practices (such as prostitution),\nthus limiting international free trade.\n\nThe Enabling Trade Index measures the factors, policies and services that facilitate the trade in goods across borders and to destinations. The index summarizes four sub-indexes: market access; border administration; transport and communications infrastructure; and business environment. The top 30 countries and areas were:\nThe relative costs, benefits and beneficiaries of free trade are debated by academics, governments and interest groups.\n\nArguments for protectionism fall into the economic category (trade hurts the economy or groups in the economy) or the moral category (the effects of trade might help the economy, but have ill effects in other areas); a general argument against free trade is that it is colonialism or imperialism in disguise. The moral category is wide, including concerns of destroying infant industries and undermining long-run economic development, income inequality, environmental degradation, supporting child labor and sweatshops, race to the bottom, wage slavery, accentuating poverty in poor countries, harming national defense, and forcing cultural change.\n\nEconomic arguments against free trade criticize the assumptions or conclusions of economic theories. Sociopolitical arguments against free trade cite social and political effects that economic arguments do not capture, such as political stability, national security, human rights and environmental protection.\n\nFree trade is often opposed by domestic industries that would have their profits and market share reduced by lower prices for imported goods. For example, if United States tariffs on imported sugar were reduced, U.S. sugar producers would receive lower prices and profits, while U.S. sugar consumers would spend less for the same amount of sugar because of those same lower prices. The economic theory of David Ricardo holds that consumers would necessarily gain more than producers would lose. Since each of those few domestic sugar producers would lose a lot while each of a great number of consumers would gain only a little, domestic producers are more likely to mobilize against the lifting of tariffs. More generally, producers often favor domestic subsidies and tariffs on imports in their home countries, while objecting to subsidies and tariffs in their export markets.\n\nSocialists frequently oppose free trade on the ground that it allows maximum exploitation of workers by capital. For example, Karl Marx wrote in \"The Communist Manifesto\", \"The bourgeoisie... has set up that single, unconscionable freedom – free trade. In one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, it has substituted naked, shameless, direct, brutal exploitation.\" Nonetheless, Marx did favor free trade – \"solely\" because he felt that it would hasten the social revolution.\n\n\"Free trade\" is opposed by many anti-globalization groups, based on their assertion that free trade agreements generally do not increase the economic freedom of the poor or the working class, and frequently make them poorer. Where the foreign supplier allows de facto exploitation of labor, domestic free-labor is unfairly forced to compete with the foreign exploited labor. To this extent, free trade is seen as an end-run around workers' rights and laws that protect individual liberty.\n\nSome opponents of free trade favor free trade theory but oppose free trade \"agreements\" as applied. Some opponents of NAFTA see the agreement as being materially harmful to the common people, but some of the arguments are actually against the particulars of government-managed trade, rather than against free trade \"per se\". For example, it is argued that it would be wrong to let subsidized corn from the U.S. into Mexico freely under NAFTA at prices well below production cost (dumping) because of its ruinous effects to Mexican farmers. Of course, such subsidies violate free trade theory, so this argument is not actually against the principle of free trade, but rather its selective implementation.\n\nResearch shows that support for trade restrictions is highest among respondents with the lowest levels of education. The authors find \"that the impact of education on how voters think about trade and globalization has more to do with exposure to economic ideas and information about the aggregate and varied effects of these economic phenomena, than it does with individual calculations about how trade affects personal income or job security. This is not to say that the latter types of calculations are not important in shaping individuals' views of trade – just that they are not being manifest in the simple association between education and support for trade openness.\" A 2017 study found that individuals whose occupations are routine-task-intensive and who do jobs that are offshorable are more likely to be protectionist.\n\nResearch suggests that attitudes towards free trade do not necessarily reflect individuals' self-interests.\n\nIt has long been argued that free trade is a form of colonialism or imperialism, a position taken by various proponents of economic nationalism and the school of mercantilism. In the 19th century these criticized British calls for free trade as cover for British Empire, notably in the works of American Henry Clay, architect of the American System and by German American economist Friedrich List.\n\nMore recently, Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa has denounced the \"sophistry of free trade\" in an introduction he wrote for a book titled \"The Hidden Face of Free Trade Accords\", written in part by Correa's current Energy Minister Alberto Acosta. Citing as his source the book \"Kicking Away the Ladder\", written by Ha-Joon Chang, Correa identified the difference between an \"American system\" opposed to a \"British System\" of free trade. The latter, he says, was explicitly viewed by the Americans as \"part of the British imperialist system.\" According to Correa, Chang showed that it was Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton, and not Friedrich List, who was the first to present a systematic argument defending industrial protectionism.\n\nThe following alternatives for free trade have been proposed: balanced trade, fair trade, protectionism, industrial policy.\n\nThe value of free trade was first observed and documented by Adam Smith in \"The Wealth of Nations\", in 1776. He wrote,\nThis statement uses the concept of absolute advantage to present an argument in opposition to mercantilism, the dominant view surrounding trade at the time, which held that a country should aim to export more than it imports, and thus amass wealth. Instead, Smith argues, countries could gain from each producing exclusively the good(s) in which they are most suited to, trading between each other as required for the purposes of consumption. In this vein, it is not the value of exports relative to that of imports that is important, but the value of the goods produced by a nation. The concept of absolute advantage however does not address a situation where a country has no advantage in the production of a particular good or type of good.\n\nThis theoretical shortcoming was addressed by the theory of comparative advantage. Generally attributed to David Ricardo who expanded on it in his 1817 book \"On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\", it makes a case for free trade based not on absolute advantage in production of a good, but on the relative opportunity costs of production. A country should specialize in whatever good it can produce at the lowest cost, trading this good to buy other goods it requires for consumption. This allows for countries to benefit from trade even when they do not have an absolute advantage in any area of production. While their gains from trade might not be equal to those of a country more productive in all goods, they will still be better off economically from trade than they would be under a state of autarky.\nExceptionally, Henry George's 1886 book \"Protection or Free Trade\" was read out loud in full into the Congressional Record by five Democratic congressmen.\nTyler Cowen wrote that 'Protection or Free Trade\" \"remains perhaps the best-argued tract on free trade to this day.\"\nGeorge discusses the subject in particular with respect to the interests of labor. Although George is very critical towards protectionism:\nWe all hear with interest and pleasure of improvements in transportation by water or land; we are all disposed to regard the opening of canals, the building of railways, the deepening of harbors, the improvement of steamships as beneficial. But if such things are beneficial, how can tariffs be beneficial? The effect of such things is to lessen the cost of transporting commodities; the effect of tariffs is to increase it. If the protective theory be true, every improvement that cheapens the carriage of goods between country and country is an injury to mankind unless tariffs be commensurately increased. George considers the general free trade argument 'inadequate'. He argues that the removal of protective tariffs alone is never sufficient to improve the situation of the working class, unless accompanied by a shift towards land value tax.\n\nConcepts/topics:\n\nTrade organizations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12293370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12293370", "title": "GASB 45", "text": "GASB 45\n\nGASB 45, or GASB Statement 45, is an accounting and financial reporting provision requiring government employers to measure and report the liabilities associated with other (than pension) postemployment benefits (or OPEB). Reported OPEBs may include post-retirement medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, life, long-term disability and long-term care benefits that are not associated with a pension plan. Government employers required to comply with GASB 45 include all states, towns, education boards, water districts, mosquito districts, public schools and all other government entities that offer OPEB and report under GASB.\n\nGASB 45 was instigated by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) in July 2004 because of the growing concern over the potential magnitude of government employer obligations for post-employment benefits. GASB 45 will:\n\n\nGASB 45 applies to the financial statements issued by government employers that offer OPEB and that are subject to GASB accounting standards. GASB 45 does not apply to private employers or trusts that are established in order to pre-fund OPEB benefits and for trusts that are used as conduits to pay OPEB benefits.\n\nGASB 45 requires the following disclosures on financial statements:\n\nGASB has implemented the reporting of OPEB in three phases. The phase that applies to a plan sponsor for GASB 43 and GASB 45 implementation is identical to the phase that applied to that plan sponsor for GASB 34 implementation and is based on annual revenue reported in the first fiscal year ending after June 15, 1999.\nThe implementation schedule for GASB 45 is:\n\nSmaller governments can use the Alternative Measurement Method (AMM) to comply with GASB 45 reporting requirements. The AMM was designed to provide a lower cost option for organizations with fewer than 100 plan members. Several online resources are available from credible consulting firms (e.g., Gabriel Roeder Smith, Milliman).\n\nTypically an actuary (or actuaries) with both pension and health experience must perform the calculations following generally accepted actuarial methods. For small plans covering fewer than 100 plan members, the plan sponsor can elect to use the alternative measurement method, a streamlined method to calculate the OPEB liability. This approach is typically less expensive and was developed by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.\n\nThere are three basic ways of treating unfunded liabilities:\n\n"}
{"id": "21454172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21454172", "title": "George Knipp &amp; Brother Building", "text": "George Knipp &amp; Brother Building\n\nGeorge Knipp & Brother Building is a historic retail building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a five-story brick commercial structure with a four-bay cast-iron façade, constructed about 1875. It features large window openings flanked by Corinthian columns. It was originally the location of John Knipps’ furniture business and his brother George Knipp's enterprise in gas fixtures and plumbing supplies. It was later occupied by a furniture and carpet firm and later a J.G. McCrory Co. store.\n\nGeorge Knipp & Brother Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "34204399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34204399", "title": "Halse Rogers Arnott", "text": "Halse Rogers Arnott\n\nHalse Rogers Arnott (1879May, 1961) was an Australian medical practitioner, company director and chairman of Arnott's.\n\nArnott was born in Newcastle, New South Wales, the youngest son of William Arnott (1827-1901) who was the founder of Arnott's Biscuits and his second wife, Margaret McLean Fleming (1865-1902). His full siblings were: William Arnott; Janet Dunman Arnott; Colonel John McLean Arnott, CMG; Colonel Arthur Smith Arnott; Margaret Fleming Arnott; Robert Fleming Arnott; George Marshall Arnott; Florence Joanna Arnott; and Victoria M Arnott. He was educated at Newington College from 1893. Arnott served with General Sir Redvers Buller's Scouts in South Africa during the Second Boer War.\n\nArnott married Alice Johns in 1903 in Canterbury, New South Wales and they had five children: Campbell William Rogers Arnott (1905-1987); Phyllis Rogers Arnott (1907-2002); Malcolm Rogers Arnott (1911-1976); Keith MacKenzie Rogers Arnott (1912-1998); Dorothy Rogers Arnott (1915-1992). The family first lived in Hunters Hill in the 1870s stone mansion \"Bulwarra\", later purchased by Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton. In the 1930s, Arnott built a home in Burns Road Wahroonga. Throughout their married life the Arnotts maintained weekenders in Springwood, in the Blue Mountains, including \"Homedale\".\n\nArnott matriculated at 35 and studied arts at the University of Sydney before graduating as a Bachelor of Medicine and Chemistry in 1925. He later studied for College membership in Edinburgh. Arnott was involved in the management of Arnott's from the time of his father's death in 1901 and served as Chairman from 1947 until 1961. On his death he was succeeded as Chairman by Geoffrey H. Arnott.\n"}
{"id": "147042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147042", "title": "ISO 9000", "text": "ISO 9000\n\nThe ISO 9000 family of quality management systems standards is designed to help organizations ensure that they meet the needs of customers and other stakeholders while meeting statutory and regulatory requirements related to a product or service. ISO 9000 deals with the fundamentals of quality management systems, including the seven quality management principles upon which the family of standards is based.\n\nThird-party certification bodies provide independent confirmation that organizations meet the requirements of ISO 9001. Over one million organizations worldwide are independently certified, making ISO 9001 one of the most widely used management tools in the world today. However, the ISO certification process has been criticized as being wasteful and not being useful for all organizations.\n\nISO 9000 was first published in 1987 by ISO (International Organization for Standardization). It was based on the BS 5750 series of standards from BSI that were proposed to ISO in 1979. However, its history can be traced back some twenty years before that, to the publication of government procurement standards, such as the United States Department of Defense MIL-Q-9858 standard in 1959, and the U.K's Def Stan 05-21 and 05-24. Large organizations which supplied government procurement agencies often had to comply with a variety of quality assurance requirements for each contract awarded which led the defence industry to adopt mutual recognition of NATO AQAP, MIL-Q and Def Stan standards. Eventually, ISO 9000 was adopted as a suitable option, instead of forcing contractors to adopt multiple - and often similar - requirements.\n\nThe global adoption of ISO 9001 may be attributable to a number of factors. In the early days, the ISO 9001 (9002 and 9003) requirements were intended to be used by procuring organizations, as the basis of contractual arrangements with their suppliers. This helped reduce the need for \"supplier development\" by establishing basic requirements for a supplier to assure product quality. The ISO 9001 requirements could be tailored to meet specific contractual situations, depending on the complexity of product, business type (design responsibility, manufacture only, distribution, servicing etc.) and risk to the procurer. If a chosen supplier was weak on the controls of their measurement equipment (calibration), and hence QC/inspection results, that specific requirement would be invoked in the contract. The adoption of a single Quality Assurance requirement also lead to cost savings throughout the supply chain by reducing the administrative burden of maintaining multiple sets of quality manuals and procedures.\n\nA few years later, the U.K. Government took steps to improve national competitiveness following publication of cmd 8621, and Third Party Certification of Quality Management Systems was born, under the auspices of the National Accreditation Council of Certification Bodies (NACCB) which has become the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS) .\n\nIn addition to several stakeholders' benefits, a number of studies have identified significant financial benefits for organizations certified to ISO 9001, with a 2011 survey from the British Assessment Bureau showing 44% of their certified clients had won new business. Corbett \"et al.\" showed that certified organizations achieved superior return on assets compared to otherwise similar organizations without certification. Heras \"et al.\" found similarly superior performance and demonstrated that this was statistically significant and not a function of organization size. Naveha and Marcus claimed that implementing ISO 9001 led to superior operational performance in the U.S. automotive industry. Sharma identified similar improvements in operating performance and linked this to superior financial performance. Chow-Chua \"et al.\" showed better overall financial performance was achieved for companies in Denmark. Rajan and Tamimi (2003) showed that ISO 9001 certification resulted in superior stock market performance and suggested that shareholders were richly rewarded for the investment in an ISO 9001 system.\n\nWhile the connection between superior financial performance and ISO 9001 may be seen from the examples cited, there remains no proof of direct causation, though longitudinal studies, such as those of Corbett \"et al.\" (2005) may suggest it. Other writers, such as Heras \"et al.\" (2002), have suggested that while there is some evidence of this, the improvement is partly driven by the fact that there is a tendency for better performing companies to seek ISO 9001 certification.\n\nThe mechanism for improving results has also been the subject of much research. Lo \"et al.\" (2007) identified operational improvements (e.g., cycle time reduction, inventory reductions) as following from certification. Internal process improvements in organizations lead to externally observable improvements. The benefit of increased international trade and domestic market share, in addition to the internal benefits such as customer satisfaction, interdepartmental communications, work processes, and customer/supplier partnerships derived, far exceeds any and all initial investment.\n\nThe increase in ISO 9001 certification is shown in the tables below.\n\nThe ISO 9000 series are based on seven quality management principles (QMP)\n\nThe seven quality management principles are:\n\nPrinciple 1 – Customer focus\n\nPrinciple 2 – Leadership\n\nPrinciple 3 – Engagement of people\n\nPrinciple 4 – Process approach\n\nPrinciple 5 – Improvement\n\nPrinciple 6 – Evidence-based decision making\n\nPrinciple 7 – Relationship management\n\nISO 9001:2015 Quality management systems — Requirements is a document of approximately 30 pages which is available from the national standards organization in each country. Only ISO 9001 is directly audited against for third party assessment purposes.\n\nContents of ISO 9001:2015 are as follows:\n\n\nEssentially the layout of the standard is similar to the previous ISO 9001:2008 standard in that it follows the Plan, Do, Check, Act cycle in a process-based approach, but is now further encouraging this to have risk-based thinking. (section 0.3.3 of the introduction) The purpose of the quality objectives is to determine the conformity of the requirements (customers and organizations), facilitate effective deployment and improve the quality management system.\n\nBefore the certification body can issue or renew a certificate, the auditor must be satisfied that the company being assessed has implemented the requirements of sections 4 to 10. Sections 1 to 3 are not directly audited against, but because they provide context and definitions for the rest of the standard, not that of the organization, their contents must be taken into account.\n\nThe standard no longer specifies that the organization shall issue and maintain documented procedures, however, ISO 9001:2015 requires the organization to document any other procedures required for its effective operation. The standard also requires the organization to issue and communicate a documented quality policy, a quality management system scope, and quality objectives. The standard no longer requires compliant organizations to issue a formal Quality Manual. The standard does require retention of numerous records, as specified throughout the standard. New for the 2015 release is a requirement for an organization to assess risks and opportunities (section 6.1) and to determine internal and external issues relevant to its purpose and strategic direction (section 4.1). The organization must demonstrate how the standard’s requirements are being met, while the external auditor’s role is to determine the quality management system's effectiveness. More detailed interpretation and implementation examples are often sought by organizations seeking more information in what can be a very technical area.\n\nInternational Organization for Standardization (ISO) does not certify organizations itself. Numerous certification bodies exist, which audit organizations and, upon success, issue ISO 9001 compliance certificates. Although commonly referred to as \"ISO 9000\" certification, the actual standard to which an organization's quality management system can be certified is ISO 9001:2015 (ISO 9001:2008 will expire by around September 2018). Many countries have formed accreditation bodies to authorize (\"accredit\") the certification bodies. Both the accreditation bodies and the certification bodies charge fees for their services. The various accreditation bodies have mutual agreements with each other to ensure that certificates issued by one of the accredited certification bodies (CB) are accepted worldwide. Certification bodies themselves operate under another quality standard, ISO/IEC 17021, while accreditation bodies operate under ISO/IEC 17011.\n\nAn organization applying for ISO 9001 certification is audited based on an extensive sample of its sites, functions, products, services and processes. The auditor presents a list of problems (defined as \"nonconformities\", \"observations\", or \"opportunities for improvement\") to management. If there are no major nonconformities, the certification body will issue a certificate. Where major nonconformities are identified, the organization will present an improvement plan to the certification body (e.g., corrective action reports showing how the problems will be resolved); once the certification body is satisfied that the organization has carried out sufficient corrective action, it will issue a certificate. The certificate is limited by a certain scope (e.g., production of golf balls) and will display the addresses to which the certificate refers.\n\nAn ISO 9001 certificate is not a once-and-for-all award but must be renewed at regular intervals recommended by the certification body, usually once every three years. There are no grades of competence within ISO 9001: either a company is certified (meaning that it is committed to the method and model of quality management described in the standard) or it is not. In this respect, ISO 9001 certification contrasts with measurement-based quality systems.\n\nThe ISO 9000 standard is continually being revised by standing technical committees and advisory groups, who receive feedback from those professionals who are implementing the standard.\n\nISO 9000:1987 had the same structure as the UK Standard BS 5750, with three \"models\" for quality management systems, the selection of which was based on the scope of activities of the organization:\n\"ISO 9000:1987\" was also influenced by existing U.S. and other Defense Standards (\"MIL SPECS\"), and so was well-suited to manufacturing. The emphasis tended to be placed on conformance with procedures rather than the overall process of management, which was likely the actual intent.\n\n\"ISO 9000:1994\" emphasized quality assurance via preventive actions, instead of just checking final product, and continued to require evidence of compliance with documented procedures. As with the first edition, the down-side was that companies tended to implement its requirements by creating shelf-loads of procedure manuals, and becoming burdened with an ISO bureaucracy. In some companies, adapting and improving processes could actually be impeded by the quality system.\n\n\"ISO 9001:2000\" replaced all three former standards of 1994 issue, \"ISO 9001\", \"ISO 9002\" and \"ISO 9003\". Design and development procedures were required only if a company does, in fact, engage in the creation of new products. The 2000 version sought to make a radical change in thinking by actually placing front and centre the concept of process management (the monitoring and optimisation of a company's tasks and activities, instead of just inspection of the final product). The 2000 version also demanded involvement by upper executives in order to integrate quality into the business system and avoid delegation of quality functions to junior administrators. Another goal was to improve effectiveness via process performance metrics: numerical measurement of the effectiveness of tasks and activities. Expectations of continual process improvement and tracking customer satisfaction were made explicit.\n\nISO 9000 Requirements include:\n\nISO 9001:2008 in essence re-narrates ISO 9001:2000. The 2008 version only introduced clarifications to the existing requirements of ISO 9001:2000 and some changes intended to improve consistency with ISO 14001:2004. There were no new requirements. For example, in ISO 9001:2008, a quality management system being upgraded just needs to be checked to see if it is following the clarifications introduced in the amended version.\n\nISO 9001 is supplemented directly by two other standards of the family:\n\nOther standards, like ISO 19011 and the ISO 10000 series, may also be used for specific parts of the quality system.\n\nIn 2012, ISO TC 176 - responsible for ISO 9001 development - celebrated 25 years of implementing ISO 9001, and concluded that it was necessary to create a new QMS model for the next 25 years. They subsequently commenced the official work on creating a revision of ISO 9001, starting with the new QM principles. This moment was considered by important specialists in the field as \"beginning of a new era in the development of quality management systems.\" As a result of the intensive work from this technical committee, the revised standard ISO 9001:2015 was published by ISO on 23 September 2015. The scope of the standard has not changed; however, the structure and core terms were modified to allow the standard to integrate more easily with other international management systems standards.\n\nThe 2015 version is also less prescriptive than its predecessors and focuses on performance. This was achieved by combining the process approach with risk-based thinking, and employing the Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle at all levels in the organization.\n\nSome of the key changes include:\n\n\nTwo types of auditing are required to become registered to the standard: auditing by an external certification body (external audit) and audits by internal staff trained for this process (internal audits). The aim is a continual process of review and assessment to verify that the system is working as it is supposed to, to find out where it can improve, and to correct or prevent identified problems. It is considered healthier for internal auditors to audit outside their usual management line, so as to bring a degree of independence to their judgements.\n\nThe ISO 9001 standard is generic; its parts must be carefully interpreted to make sense within a particular organization. Developing software is not like making cheese or offering counseling services, yet the ISO 9001 guidelines, because they are business management guidelines, can be applied to each of these. Diverse organizations—police departments (United States), professional soccer teams (Mexico), and city councils (UK)—have successfully implemented ISO 9001:2000 systems.\n\nOver time, various industry sectors have wanted to standardize their interpretations of the guidelines within their own marketplace. This is partly to ensure that their versions of ISO 9000 have their specific requirements, but also to try and ensure that more appropriately trained and experienced auditors are sent to assess them.\n\n\nThe debate on the effectiveness of ISO 9000 commonly centres on the following questions:\n\nThe effectiveness of the ISO system being implemented depends on a number of factors, the most significant of which are:\n\nProper quality management can improve business, often having a positive effect on investment, market share, sales growth, sales margins, competitive advantage, and avoidance of litigation. The quality principles in ISO 9000:2000 are also sound, according to Wade and Barnes, who says that \"ISO 9000 guidelines provide a comprehensive model for quality management systems that can make any company competitive\". Sroufe and Curkovic, (2008) found benefits ranging from registration required to remain part of a supply base, better documentation, to cost benefits, and improved involvement and communication with management. According to ISO the 2015 version of the standard brings the following benefits:\n\nA common criticism of ISO 9000 and 9001 is the amount of money, time, and paperwork required for a complete implementation, and later when needed; ISO 9001 certification. Dalgleish cites the \"inordinate and often unnecessary paperwork burden\" of ISO, and says that \"quality managers feel that ISO's overhead and paperwork are excessive and extremely inefficient\". The level of minimum documentation for a minimum scope organization has been greatly reduced going from ISO 9001:2000, through ISO 9001:2008 and lastly ISO 9001:2015.\n\nAccording to Barnes, \"Opponents claim that it is only for documentation. Proponents believe that if a company has documented its quality systems, then most of the paperwork has already been completed\". Wilson suggests that ISO standards \"elevate inspection of the correct procedures over broader aspects of quality\", and therefore, \"the workplace becomes oppressive and quality is not improved\".\n\nOne study showing reasons for not adopting this standard include the risks and uncertainty of not knowing if there are direct relationships to improved quality, and what kind and how many resources will be needed. Additional risks include how much certification will cost, increased bureaucratic processes and risk of poor company image if the certification process fails. According to John Seddon, ISO 9001 promotes specification, control, and procedures rather than understanding and improvement. Wade argues that ISO 9000 is effective as a guideline, but that promoting it as a standard \"helps to mislead companies into thinking that certification means better quality, ... [undermining] the need for an organization to set its own quality standards\". In short, Wade argues that reliance on the specifications of ISO 9001 does not guarantee a successful quality system.\n\nThe standard is seen as especially prone to failure when a company is interested in certification before quality. Certifications are in fact often based on customer contractual requirements rather than a desire to actually improve quality. \"If you just want the certificate on the wall, chances are you will create a paper system that doesn't have much to do with the way you actually run your business\", said ISO's Roger Frost. Certification by an independent auditor is often seen as the problem area, and according to Barnes, \"has become a vehicle to increase consulting services\".\n\nDalgleish argues that while \"quality has a positive effect on return on investment, market share, sales growth, better sales margins and competitive advantage,\" \"taking a quality approach is unrelated to ISO 9000 registration.\" In fact, ISO itself advises that ISO 9001 can be implemented without certification, simply for the quality benefits that can be achieved.\n\nAbrahamson argues that fashionable management discourse such as Quality Circles tends to follow a lifecycle in the form of a bell curve, possibly indicating a management fad.\n\nPickrell argues that ISO systems merely gauge whether the processes are being followed. It does not gauge how good the processes are or whether the correct parameters are being measured and controlled to ensure quality. Furthermore, when unique technical solutions are involved in the creation of a new part, ISO does not validate the robustness of the technical solution which is a key part of advanced quality planning. It is not unheard of for an ISO-certified plant to display poor quality performance due to poor process selection and/or poor technical solutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11869822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11869822", "title": "James Martin Eder", "text": "James Martin Eder\n\nJames Martin Eder (June 24, 1838 – December 26, 1921), known in Colombia as Santiago Martín Eder Kaiser, don Santiago Eder or simply \"El Fundador\", is considered the pioneer of the sugar industry in Colombia, and is widely recognized as one of Colombia's leading 19th century industrial pioneers.\n\nEder was born in Goldingen in the Duchy of Courland in the Russian Empire. He was the son of Martin Sass Eder and Dorina Kaiser, and was the youngest of their seven children. In 1851 Santiago Eder immigrated from Courland to New York City where his older brother and most of his siblings already lived. He completed his education and after some work experience entered Harvard Law School in 1858. In 1861 he moved to San Francisco, and from there moved to the Colombian sea port of Buenaventura where he worked as a lawyer and a commercial representative for Panamanian trading firms when Panama was still part of Colombia. In 1864 he bought the Manuelita sugar and coffee farm near the city of Palmira in the Cauca Valley of Colombia. He bought this farm at a public auction in Cali from the father of leading Colombian novelist Jorge Isaacs. In 1866 Eder became the consul of the United States in Buenaventura, as well as the vice-consul of Chile. In 1867 he traveled to London where he met and married Elizabeth 'Lizzie' Benjamin in the New Synagogue. In their marriage certificate, the name of don Santiago's father is given as 'Moses Eder'. From this marriage were born his children Henry, Charles, Luisa, Walter, Phanor, Fanny and Edith Eder.\n\nIn 1901 Manuelita became the first Colombian sugar mill to move from mule to steam powered mills. As such, don Santiago became one of Colombia's first industrialists. In 1903 he left his children Charles James and Henry James Eder in charge of his business interests and moved with his wife to New York. He remained there until his death at 83 in 1921. Eder is buried at the Shearith Israel Cemetery in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn. His nephew Montague David Eder was one of England's Leading Zionist.\n\nAfter his death, the Manuelita sugar company saw further expansions in 1927 and 1939. In 1952 under management of Harold Henry Eder, Santiago's grandson, Manuelita became the first sugarcane mill in Colombia to make refined sugar. Under Santiago Eder's great grandson Henry James Eder Manuelita started an international expansion, and today is one of Colombia's leading agro/industrial companies with operations in Colombia, Peru, Brazil and Chile. The current president of Manuelita is Harold Eder Garcés, is don Santiago's great-great-grandson and belongs to the fifth generation of the Eder Family in Colombia.\n\nMuch of Santiago Eder's correspondence, mostly business related, but also dealing with the Colombian government and personal family matters, are preserved at the Phanor James Eder Collection at the University of Miami.\n\n"}
{"id": "18532409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18532409", "title": "John Gardiner Calkins Brainard", "text": "John Gardiner Calkins Brainard\n\nJohn Gardiner Calkins Brainard (1795–1828) was an American lawyer, editor and poet.\n\nJohn Brainard was born in New London, Connecticut, in October 1796, son of Jeremiah G. Brainard, formerly a judge of the Connecticut Superior Court. He was a descendant of Lion Gardiner, an early English settler and soldier, who founded the first English settlement in what became the state of New York. His legacy includes Gardiners Island, which remains in the possession of the family and is the largest privately owned island in the United States.\n\nBrainard was tutored at home by an elder brother and entered Yale College at the age of 15 in 1811. Biographies agree that he was not an attentive student, and it is uncertain whether he graduated. Nevertheless, on leaving college he was taken on as a student at law in his brother William F. Brainard's office.\n\nBy 1819 he had been called to the bar and moved to Middletown, apparently to set up his own practice. In fact, he seems to have been apathetic about a legal career, feeling that his nature was too sensitive for such a profession. Some of his earliest poems are from this period of his life, published in a New Haven literary paper, \"The Microscope\" published by one Cornelius Tuthill.\n\nIn February 1822, he was engaged as editor of the \"Connecticut Mirror\" in a bid to further a literary career. Again, biographies agree that this was not the ideal job for him, and that \"his temperament was totally unsuited to rough collissions of editorial controversy\". In this role he published a number of his own works within the newspaper, which were well received and led to a literary reputation for Brainard.\n\nHe appears to have been well known and well thought of in his community. He is known to have been a friend of McDonald Clarke, the so-called \"Mad poet of Broadway\".\n\nIn 1824-5 he published a first volume, \"Occasional Pieces of Poetry by John G. C. Brainard\", being reprints of works first published in the \"Mirror\", together with a miscellany of unpublished poems.\n\nBy the spring of 1827, he was in failing health, suffering from tuberculosis. He returned to New London, giving up his \"Mirror\" role, but continuing to have poems published in it.\n\nHe died on September 26, 1828. A number of poets, including John Greenleaf Whittier, wrote poems in his memory. A posthumous \"The literary remains of J.G.C. Brainard: with a sketch of his life\" was published in 1832, and revised and republished as \"The poems of John G. C. Brainard. A new and authentic collection\". A number of his poems are reprinted in collections of poems.\n\nHis poem \"On the Project of African Colonization\" is quoted in Harriet Beecher Stowe´s book Uncle Tom's Cabin at the end of chapter XXXVII \"Liberty\" although without credit and reference.\n\n"}
{"id": "12135155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12135155", "title": "Joseph Reiser", "text": "Joseph Reiser\n\nJoseph Reiser was a longtime general manager of the Omega watch company. He has been credited as the architect of the worldwide brand notoriety.\n\nJoseph Reiser was already the President of the SSIH Group, when 1958 he had to take over the management of Omega SA, upon Paul Emile Brand's death.\n\nUnder his guidance, Omega established subsidiaries in its main markets, and extended its distribution and customer services worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "23142015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23142015", "title": "Journal of Business Ethics", "text": "Journal of Business Ethics\n\nThe Journal of Business Ethics is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Springer Science+Business Media covering methodological and disciplinary aspects of ethical issues related to business, including systems of production, consumption, marketing, advertising, social and economic accounting, labor relations, public relations and organizational behavior. The founding editors in chief are Alex C. Michalos (Institute for Social Research and Evaluation, University of Northern British Columbia) and Deborah C. Poff. The current editor in chief are R. Edward Freeman, University of Virginia and Michelle Greenwood, Monash University. The journal is listed on the Financial Times (FT) List of the top 50 business journals and publishes approximately 28 issues per year.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in: ABI/INFORM, Business Source Alumni Edition, Business Source Complete, Business Source Elite, Business Source Plus, Cengage, Communication Abstracts, Corporate ResourceNet, ERIH, Science Citation Index, Scopus, and The Philosopher's Index.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 2.917, ranking it 3rd out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\nIn 2004 the \"Journal of Business Ethics\" merged with the \"International Journal of Value-Based Management\" and \"Teaching Business Ethics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3719896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719896", "title": "João Carlos Di Genio", "text": "João Carlos Di Genio\n\nJoão Carlos Di Genio is a Brazilian physician and educator. He created and is the main owner of the largest educational holding in the country, comprised by the Sistema Objetivo (primary, secondary and preparatory schools) and the Universidade Paulista (UNIP), a private university with more than 60 campuses all over Brazil.\n\nDi Genio started his educational career while he was a medical student at the University of São Paulo, in São Paulo in the 1960s. The mandatory entrance examination to the medical schools was increasingly tougher and many high school students. The inborn entrepreneurial spirit of di Genio led him to create a one-year preparatory pre-med course, initially in his own home. The success achieved by the course prompted him to establish a formal school, together with three of his colleagues (Drauzio Varella, Tadasi Ito and Roger Patti), which was named \"Curso Pré-Vestibular Nove de Julho\". This later became the Objetivo prep course. Other educational levels were subsequently added.\n\n"}
{"id": "4291415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4291415", "title": "Juliette Rossant", "text": "Juliette Rossant\n\nJuliette Rossant (born 1959) is an American author, journalist, and poet, best known for her writings about top-grossing celebrity chefs about whom she first wrote for \"Forbes\" magazine and for whom she has defined (if not coined) the term \"super chef,\" also the title of her first book and of her online magazine. She is also member of the Pallache family.\n\nBorn in New York City, Rossant is the daughter of New Yorker James Rossant, architect and designer of Reston, Virginia, and Colette Rossant, a cookbook author and food writer.\n\nRossant grew up on Sullivan Street in Greenwich Village. After graduating from St. Ann's School in Brooklyn, She attended Dartmouth College and then the Johns Hopkins University, where she studied Creative Writing.\n\nShe started publishing poems in \"Extensions\" literary magazine when she was 14 years old. At Dartmouth, she co-founded \"The Stonefence Review\" literary magazine as an alternative to the highly conservative \"Dartmouth Review\". She studied poetry under Richard Eberhart and Kenneth Koch.\n\nRossant began work in Journalism while living in Istanbul in the late 1980s. She continued as a journalist while based in Paris, Moscow, and Jeddah, writing for newspapers and magazines (including \"Business Week\"). Her reportage included the Kurds in Northern Iraq during the Gulf War, fighting between Armenians and Azeris in Nagorno-Karabagh, and developments in the oil industry in Central Asia and the Middle East.\n\nReturning to the U.S., Rossant joined \"Forbes\" and \"Forbes Global\" to write on international business including the \"Forbes\" annual, global Billionaires List. Because of her Middle East experience, she covered the \"Africa and Middle East\" sections of that list every year with Forbes.\n\nRossant also started the \"Celebrity Chefs\" column in the \"Forbes\" annual Celebrity 100 issue, which she wrote for three years.\n\n\nRossant has consulted to a number of companies on branding issues related to super chefs.\n\nRossant has become an expert, city by the \"Newsweek\", \"New York Daily News\", \"Baltimore Sun\", \"Brand Channel\", and \"Gastronomica\". She has lectured at the Culinary Institute of America and the Institute for Culinary Education. She has also contributed to publications, from \"Portfolio\" to \"Saudi Aramco World\".\n\nShe also continues to write books.\n\nRossant traces her maternal line back to the Pallache/Palacci family, Sephardic Jews who moved from Spain to Morocco, the Netherlands, Italy, Turkey, and Egypt. One ancestor, Samuel Pallache, served as dragoman in concluding a treaty between Morocco and the Netherlands (then a young Dutch Republic) in 1608. Several were \"grand rabbis\" in 19th Century Smyrna (Izmir): Haim Palachi (Haim Palacci, Hayyim Pallache), Abraham Palacci (Avraham Pallache), and Rahamim Nissim Palacci. Beth Hillel Synagogue (Turkish \"Bet-Ilel Sinagogu\") in Izmir, stands in the former home of Avraham Palache. Great-grandfather Vita Palacci (born in Izmir ~ 1863) owned lemon perfume factories in Upper Egypt. In 1897, he founded the store \"Palacci Menasce et Fils\" (known in Egyptian Arabic as \"Balatshi\") on Bayn Al-Nahdain Street in the Muski district of Cairo. By 1909, \"Palacci\" had become a full-fledged department store under the name \"Palacci Fils, Haim et Cie\" and comparable to Cairo's branch of Bon Marché: \"a three-storey, 1,200-square-meter store, employing 20 office clerks and 120 salespeople in at least thirteen departments, and was 'doing a large share of the wholesale and retail trade in Egypt and the Soudan'.\" After World War I, he bought one of five new villas in Garden City, Cairo, which replaced the Hotel Ritz Cairo (demolished 1905). The Palacci family were associated with the Sha'ar Hashamayim Synagogue (Cairo) on Adly Street in downtown Cairo and were one of many families who contributed to its maintenance. Vita's son Isaac, a commercial director who sourced items for the store all across the Mediterranean, met and married Marceline Bémant in Paris. Later, Rossant's parents also met in Paris and came to live in America in the 1950s.\n\nShe traces her paternal line back to Warsaw and Seirijai, the latter in Lithuania just across the Polish border.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7642904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7642904", "title": "Jung District, Daegu", "text": "Jung District, Daegu\n\nJung District (Jung-gu) is a \"gu\", or district, covering the downtown area of Daegu, South Korea. It borders most of the other districts of Daegu, including Nam-gu to the south, Seo-gu to the west, Buk-gu to the north, and Dong-gu and Suseong-gu to the east. The northern border is formed by the Gyeongbu Line railroad, and the eastern border by the Sincheon stream.\n\nJung-gu is at the nexus of Daegu Subway Line 1 and Daegu Subway Line 2. Daegu Subway Line 3 will also pass through the district when it is completed.\n\nMuch of Jung-gu once lay within the old confines of Daegu Castle, which at one time comprised the entire town of Daegu. A small part of the castle wall is preserved in Dalseong Park. Many historical incidents in the history of Daegu took place in the district, including the recent Daegu subway fire and the February 28th movement calling for the end of the autocratic Rhee regime in 1960. The district was formally established in 1963, with the introduction of the \"gu\" system.\n\nThe land of Jung-gu is almost entirely developed, with only 16% greenspace remaining. The population of Jung-gu fell steadily after peaking at 218,900 in 1980, as outlying residential districts expanded and residences were replaced by businesses. In the mid-2000s this trend appeared to stabilize, with the 2005 population rising slightly over 2004.\n\nThe district has been the chief shopping center of Daegu throughout recorded history, beginning with the Yangnyeongsi and Seomun markets, both of which are still in operation. Chilseong Market, a major center of hardware and furniture sales, is also located in Jung-gu. Most of the city's department stores are located in or near the district, as are a vast number of smaller shops.\nDaebong Library, the municipal library that is located here. It opened on May 5, 1971 and has 162,929 books and 931 papers as of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "32600661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32600661", "title": "Koljo Karagiosov", "text": "Koljo Karagiosov\n\nKoljo Karagiosov (born July 17, 1896 in Gabrovo – 1972) was a famous Gabrovian industrialist, German honorary vice-consul.\n\nThe only son of Vassil Karagiosov and Deshka Kalpazanova. He was a grandson of Ivan Kolchev Kalpazanov. He studied the Gabrovian Gymnasium. Koljo Karagiosov played viola and did paintings. Then became student in Legal in the town of Erlangen (Germany), but a few years later he graduated Handel Hochschule in Leipzig.\n\nHe worked as an accountant in Gabrovo and later, in 1926, he took the management of the family textile company. As an industrialist Koljo Karagiosov travelled to Germany many times and bought new machines for the factory.\n\nDuring 1934 Koljo Karagiosoff also became German honorary vice consul. In the field of business and in the field of diplomacy, he was his perfect father successor who kept on developing commercial and diplomatic relations between Bulgaria and Germany.\n\nHe was Company first director up to 1947 when the Communist government nationalized the private property in Bulgaria. He and many Bulgarian industrialists were punished by the Communist Government. They were imprisoned and sent into exile because of their foreign education, knowledge, skillfulness and wealth. In the camps in Nojarevo and Belene these men worked and lived like prisons tormented by the supervisors. The Socialist party stained the reputation of all of them, announced them “enemy of the nation” and cruelly chased them. Koljo Karagiosov died in 1972.\n\nKaragiosov donated money for different charity organizations, schools, churches and monasteries – The Gabrovian Library, The Women Charity organization “Mother Care” and the Red Cross. He helped his father supplying the Zograph Monastery with provisions which he bought in Bulgaria and sent them in Mount Athos.\n\nHe had three children – two sons and a daughter. The elder son Vassil was born in Leipzig in 1920. He lived in Pleven and worked as a musician – piano player. The second son Bozhidar was born in Gabrovo. He worked in a PVC manufacturing company and was a singer in the Military choir in Gabrovo. The daughter Veselinka graduated engineer in Plovdiv. She worked in the field of Milk industry and Catering establishment. She was a skilful teacher too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "993926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993926", "title": "Lauren Bush", "text": "Lauren Bush\n\nLauren Pierce Bush (born June 25, 1984), also known as Lauren Bush Lauren, is the CEO and Co-Founder of FEED Projects. She is also known for her previous career as a fashion model and designer. She is a daughter of Neil Bush and Sharon Bush (née Smith), a granddaughter of former President George H. W. Bush and niece of former President George W. Bush.\n\nJune 25, 1984, Bush was born as Lauren Pierce Bush in Denver, Colorado, and raised in Houston, Texas. She attended high school at Kinkaid School in Houston, Texas, as did her sister Ashley and brother Pierce. In her senior year at Kinkaid, she interned for the NBC television show \"Friends\". She was a debutante, making her formal debut in a Dior haute couture gown at le Bal des débutantes in Paris, France in 2000. \n\nBush studied fashion design at BEBE and Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design and graduated from Princeton University in 2006 with a B.A. in Anthropology and a certificate in Photography. She was a member of The Ivy Club, one of Princeton's eleven eating clubs.\n\nBush was signed with Elite Model Management before launching FEED. She has been featured on the covers of \"Vogue\" and \"Vanity Fair\" and has frequently modelled for Tommy Hilfiger, as well as for Abercrombie & Fitch and designers Gai Mattiolo and Isaac Mizrahi. Bush was an intern on the television sitcom \"Friends\", making a cameo in one episode, and interned alongside Ashley Olsen with designer Zac Posen. In 2005, Bush traveled to Chad as a Student Ambassador for the World Food Program.\n\nIn 2007, Lauren launched FEED Projects, a social business to fight world hunger on behalf of the UN World Food Programme.\n\nBush relaunched her fashion label on September 11, 2008, under the name \"Lauren Pierce\". About her decision to use her middle name, Pierce, as opposed to her last name for the title of her line, Bush stated in November 2008 that it \"wasn't a conscious decision.\" Further pressed, Bush said, \"Obviously my last name is associated with politics. But Pierce is my grandmother's maiden name and my younger brother's name. It's not about downplaying my last name as much as it is about loving Pierce. And my brother is very flattered.\" Former President George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush were in the front row at the Lauren Pierce Spring 2011 show during the inaugural Houston Fashion Week, in October 2010.\n\nFEED Projects has donated over 100 million meals as of October 2017 through the sale of products and fundraising activations. In 2014, Lauren led FEED in launching FEED Supper, a 30-day fundraising activation, which asks people to host dinner parties where guests donate to hunger alleviation. In 2015, she signed an open letter for which the ONE Campaign had been collecting signatures; the letter was addressed to Angela Merkel and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, urging them to focus on women as they serve as the heads of the G7 in Germany and the AU in South Africa, respectively, which would start to set the priorities in development funding before a main UN summit in September 2015 to establish new development goals for the generation.\n\nIn 2012, Lauren was announced as the first National Lady Godiva Honoree of the Lady Godiva Program. In 2013, she became the 2013 Advocacy Award recipient from the World of Children Awards, in celebration of the significant work she and her organization, FEED Projects, have done for hungry children worldwide. \n\nFor her work with FEED, she was named one of \"Fortune\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Most Powerful Women Entrepreneurs in 2009 and one of \"Inc.\"’s 30 Under 30 in 2010. She has also received the 2010 Accessories Council Humanitarian Award, the 2011 Stevie Award for Best Non-Profit Executive, the 2011 Fashion Group International Humanitarian Award and the 2013 Women in Communications Award (WiCi). In 2014, Lauren was named as one of \"Forbes\"’ 30 Under 30 Social Entrepreneurs and one of Crain’s 40 Under 40.\n\nBush has been a vegetarian since she was four years old.\n\nShe began dating David Lauren, son of fashion designer Ralph Lauren, in 2004. On September 4, 2011, she and Lauren married in Colorado. Their first son, James Richard Lauren, was born on November 21, 2015. Their second son, Max Walker Lauren, was born on April 19, 2018, two days after Barbara Bush passed away. Lauren was the only grandchild not to attend her grandmother's funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "795618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795618", "title": "List of American advertising characters", "text": "List of American advertising characters\n\nThis is a list of notable nationally exposed mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2129916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2129916", "title": "Margaret Osborne duPont", "text": "Margaret Osborne duPont\n\nMargaret Osborne duPont (born Margaret Evelyn Osborne; March 4, 1918 – October 24, 2012) was a World No. 1 American female tennis player.\n\nDuPont won a total of 37 singles, women's doubles, and mixed doubles Grand Slam titles, which places her fourth on the all-time list despite never entering the Australian Championships. She won 25 of her Grand Slam titles at the U.S. Championships, which is an all-time record.\n\nDuPont won six Grand Slam singles titles, saving match points in the finals of the 1946 French Championships (versus Pauline Betz) and 1948 U.S. Championships (versus Louise Brough). In terms of games played, the 1948 final at the U.S. Championships is the longest women's singles final ever played at that tournament (48 games).\n\nDuPont teamed with Louise Brough to win 20 Grand Slam women's doubles titles, which ties Martina Navratilova and Pam Shriver for the most Grand Slam titles ever won by a women's doubles team. DuPont and Brough won nine consecutive titles at the U.S. Championships from 1942 through 1950. They won that tournament 12 of the 14 years they entered as a team. Their 12 titles is an all-time record for a women's doubles team at the U.S. Championships, easily surpassing the four career titles won by the teams of Navratilova and Shriver, Doris Hart and Shirley Fry, and Sarah Palfrey and Alice Marble. DuPont won a total of 13 women's doubles titles at the U.S. Championships, which also is an all-time record, as is her 10 consecutive women's doubles titles at the U.S. Championships from 1941 through 1950.\n\nDuPont won more mixed doubles titles at the U.S. Championships than any other player. She won nine titles, including four with William Talbert (a record for a mixed doubles team at the U.S. Championships) and three with Neale Fraser.\n\nAccording to John Olliff and Lance Tingay of \"The Daily Telegraph\" and the \"Daily Mail\", duPont was ranked in the world top ten from 1946 through 1950, 1953, 1954, 1956, and 1957 (no rankings issued from 1940 through 1945), reaching a career high of World No. 1 in those rankings from 1947 through 1950. DuPont was included in the year-end top ten rankings issued by the United States Lawn Tennis Association in 1938, 1941 through 1950, 1953, 1956, and 1958. She was the top ranked U.S. player from 1948 through 1950.\n\nFrom 1938 through 1958, DuPont went undefeated in ten Wightman Cup competitions, winning her ten singles and nine doubles matches. She also captained the U.S. team nine times, winning eight.\n\nMargaret married William duPont, Jr. on November 26, 1947 and later interrupted her career to give birth to a son, William duPont III on July 22, 1952. She is one of the few women to win a major title after childbirth. DuPont never played the Australian Championships because her husband would not let her. \n\nShe later divorced duPont in 1964 and formed a life partnership with fellow player Margaret Varner Bloss.\n\nDuPont died on October 24, 2012 while in hospice care in El Paso, Texas at age 94.\n\nShe was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1967. The Delaware Sports Museum and Hall of Fame inducted duPont in 1999. In 2010, she was inducted into the US Open Court of Champions.\n\nR = tournament restricted to French nationals and held under German occupation.<br>\nSR = the ratio of the number of Grand Slam singles tournaments won to the number of those tournaments played.<br>\nIn 1946 and 1947, the French Championships were held after Wimbledon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1890100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1890100", "title": "Michael Brinkenstjärna", "text": "Michael Brinkenstjärna\n\nMichael Brinkenstjärna (born 23 February 1966) is a Swedish manager for several celebrities.\n"}
{"id": "44839938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44839938", "title": "Michel Pastor", "text": "Michel Pastor\n\nMichel Pastor (1944 – February 2, 2014) was an heir, businessman and art collector from Monaco.\n\nMichel Pastor was born in 1944. His father, Gildo Pastor, was an heir and businessman. His paternal grandfather, Jean-Baptiste Pastor, settled in Monaco in the 1880s.\n\nHe grew up in Monaco with his brother, Victor Pastor, and sister, Hélène Pastor.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Michel Pastor was the corporate director of Edimo Company which published \"Theatre Magazine\", with Paul Chambrillon as editor-in-chief and Jean-Pierre Thiollet as journalist.\n\nHe served as the Chief Executive Officer of the Michel Pastor Group, a real estate firm based in Monaco. The company built many buildings in Monaco, including the Monte Carlo View, Garden House, Le Floridian and the Novotel hotel. Additionally, he owned the Columbia and Houston Palace, located on the Avenue Princesse Grace. Overall, the company was worth US$3.8 billion.\n\nHe served as the Chairman of the AS Monaco FC from 2004 to 2008. He was the owner of Hédiard, a luxury food brand, from 1995 to 2007. He was a shareholder in the auctioneer Artcurial, and the owner of an antique store in Monaco and a restaurant-bar in Gstaad, Switzerland.\n\nHe served as the Chairman of the Monaco Chamber of Economic Development from 1999 to 2009. He was also Chairman of the Grimaldi Forum. Moreover, he became honorary consul to Peru. He was a recipient of the French Legion of Honour in 2011.\n\nPastor was a prominent art collector. He owned paintings by Fernand Léger, Nicolas Poussin and Andy Warhol. He was President of the Maison de l’Amérique Latine, a non-profit organization for Latin American art.\n\nPastor was married twice. With his first wife, Syliane Stella Morell, he had a son, Fabrice Pastor. He then married Catherine Pastor. They had four children; a daughter, Delphine Pastor, born in 1976; Alexandra Pastor, born in 1978, who married David Hallyday, the son of the French singer Johnny Hallyday; Emilie-Sophie Pastor, born in 1981; and Jean-Baptiste Pastor, born in 1984, who worked for the Michel Pastor Group and married Valentina Marzocco, an heiress to the Marzocco Italian construction family.\n\nHe wintered in Gstaad, Switzerland.\n\nHe died of cancer on February 2, 2014. His funeral was held at the Saint-Charles Church in Monaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "41102584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41102584", "title": "Moka5", "text": "Moka5\n\nMoka5 (also called MokaFive) was a desktop virtualization company founded in 2005. It ceased operation in 2015 after an apparent bankruptcy. The company’s software began as a lab experiment at Stanford University and founders include professors Monica S. Lam and John Whaley. It was based out of Redwood City, California and its final CEO was Dave Robbins.\n\nMoka5 provided end-to-end desktop management solutions including client virtualization, central management, and layering solutions. Using the Moka5 Suite, users can run a virtual desktop from consumer devices including tablet computers smartphones. Moka5 offered secure cloud storage for virtual desktops and lets users access multiple computing platforms and operating systems across devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "53012571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53012571", "title": "Oulimata Sarr", "text": "Oulimata Sarr\n\nOulimata Sarr (born January 6, 1970) is currently the Deputy Regional Director for UN Women covering West and Central Africa. UN Women is the United Nations entity mandated for gender equality and empowerment of women.\n\nSarr was raised in Senegal but studied in Montréal, Canada. She graduated from the École des Hautes études Commerciales de Montréal (HEC Montréal) with a bachelor's degree in 1992, and after a period of further study at the University of Bedfordshire in Britain, graduated with a Master of Business Administration in 2002. Sarr spent ten years at the International Finance Corporation, a member institution of the World Bank Group, prior to joining the United Nations. She also worked as a Senior Auditor with Ernst & Young Senegal.\n\nIn 2017, she was invited by Vital Voices to join the Global Ambassadors Program as a mentor for women entrepreneurs around the world. She recently joined 75 African women as the founding member of Women Investment Club of Senegal which was set up in 2016 to provide long-term capital to women entrepreneurs in Senegal.\n\nSarr is the Jury President of the Cartier Women's Initiative Awards business plan competition for Sub Saharan Africa \n"}
{"id": "18520920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18520920", "title": "Pakistan German Business Forum", "text": "Pakistan German Business Forum\n\nPakistan German Business Forum (PGBF) was formed on 3 December 1997 with the active support and co-operation of German Ambassador to Pakistan who is its Patron-in-Chief as well as the German Consul-General in Karachi, Dr. Axel Weishaupt actively supported PGBF in 1997.\n\nPak-German Business Forum is responsible to promote, facilitate and support Industrial and Trade business relationship between the business communities of Pakistan and Germany. PGFB was formed on 3 December 1997.\n\nThe Ambassador of Germany in Pakistan is the Patron-in-chief of this organization. It has 160 members, comprising, heads of German multinational companies operating in Pakistan, members from organizations who have Industrial and trade relationship with Germany etc., PGBF operates in close contact with Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FPCCI) and other chambers and enjoys their support and recognition.\n\nIn September 1, PGBF, signed an MOU, of business co-operation, with \"Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Rahein-Neckar, Mannheim, Germany (IHK)\". IHK has more than 5000 members from the German Industrial & trade segments. The objective is to bring together the business communities of Pakistan & Germany into direct contact through a systematic, sustainable and long term approach. Based on the success of this MOU, PGBF has the intention to sign more MOUs with different chambers in Germany to bring together the business communities of Germany and Pakistan.\n\nThe activities of PGBF are mostly concentrated in Karachi. It is felt that its activities should be extended to whole of Pakistan specially in the North of Pakistan where large industrial & trade organisations, conducting business with Germany, have a strong presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17942608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17942608", "title": "Pedro Atala", "text": "Pedro Atala\n\nPedro Atala is a Honduran business owner of Camosa which is the John Deere distributor in Honduras. He is also president of CD Motagua along with his cousin Javier Atala. His father is Pedro Atala Simón which is an emblem in Motagua. Pedro Atala Simon was the president of the national soccer team, and the national team made his first classification to the World Cup in Spain 1982.\n"}
{"id": "18008836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18008836", "title": "Peter Folger (Nantucket settler)", "text": "Peter Folger (Nantucket settler)\n\nPeter Folger or Foulger (1617 –1690) was a poet and an interpreter of the American Indian language for the first settlers of Nantucket. He was instrumental in the colonization of Nantucket Island in the Massachusetts colony. He was the maternal grandfather of Benjamin Franklin.\n\nA Baptist missionary, teacher, and surveyor, his dealings with the native population promoted harmony between the Native Americans and European settlers.\n\nPeter Folger was born in 1617 in England, the son of John Folger Jr. (b. c. 1594) and Meribah Gibbs. He came to America in 1635, settling initially in Watertown, Massachusetts, and later moving to Martha's Vineyard, where he worked as a teacher and surveyor. In 1644, he married Mary Morrell, whom he met on the voyage from England. \n\nAt the Vineyard, Folger supported himself by teaching school and surveying land. He was hired by Governor Thomas Mayhew and his son Thomas Mayhew Jr. to convert the Native American population to Christianity, during which time he learned to speak the native language. He was a Baptist in faith, and as such was told not to visit with the Puritans on the mainland. Rev. Experience Mayhew, in a letter to John Gardner, Esquire, dated 1694, states that when Thomas Mayhew, Jr. left for England in 1657, he left the care of his church and mission to Peter Folger.\n\nFrom time to time between 1659 and 1662, Folger journeyed to Nantucket in order to survey it for the proprietors. In 1663 Folger moved to Nantucket full-time, having been granted a half a share of land by the proprietors, where he was a surveyor, an Indian interpreter, and clerk in the courts. Shortly thereafter, Folger's daughter, Abiah, was born, later to become the mother of Benjamin Franklin, who referred to him fondly in his autobiography.\n\nFolger died at Nantucket, Massachusetts, in 1690 and is buried in the Founders Burial Ground. His wife Mary Morrill Folger lived until 1704.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1209554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209554", "title": "Russian oligarch", "text": "Russian oligarch\n\nRussian oligarchs (see the related term \"New Russians\") are business oligarchs of the former Soviet republics who rapidly accumulated wealth during the era of Russian privatization in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the 1990s. The failing Soviet state left the ownership of state assets contested, which allowed for informal deals with former USSR officials (mostly in Russia and Ukraine) as a means to acquire state property. Historian Edward L. Keenan has drawn a comparison between the current Russian phenomenon of oligarchs and the system of powerful boyars which emerged in late-Medieval Muscovy.\n\nThe first modern Russian oligarchs emerged as business-sector entrepreneurs under Mikhail Gorbachev (General Secretary 1985–1991) during his period of market liberalization. The term \"oligarch\" derives from the Ancient Greek word ὀλιγάρχης (oligárkhēs), meaning literally \"one of few rulers\".\n\nBy the end of the Soviet era in 1991 and during Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika, many Russian businessmen imported or smuggled goods such as personal computers and jeans into the country and sold them, often on the black market, for a hefty profit.\nDuring the 1990s, once Boris Yeltsin became President of Russia in 1991, the oligarchs emerged as well-connected entrepreneurs who started from nearly nothing and became rich through participation in the market via connections to the corrupt, but elected, government of Russia during the state's transition to a market-based economy. The so-called voucher-privatization program enabled a handful of young men to become billionaires, specifically by arbitraging the vast difference between old domestic prices for Russian commodities (e.g. gas, oil) and the prices prevailing on the world market. Because they stashed billions of dollars in private Swiss bank accounts rather than investing in the Russian economy, they were dubbed \"kleptocrats\". These oligarchs became extremely unpopular with the Russian public, and are commonly thought of as the cause of much of the turmoil that plagued the country following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. \"The Guardian\" described the oligarchs as \"about as popular with your average Russian as a man idly burning bundles of £50s outside an orphanage\".\n\nPost-Soviet business oligarchs include relatives or close associates of government officials, even government officials themselves, as well as criminal bosses often connected to the Russian government who achieved vast wealth by acquiring state assets very cheaply (or for free) during the privatization process controlled by the Yeltsin government of 1991–1999. Specific accusations of corruption are often leveled at Anatoly Chubais and Yegor Gaidar, two of the \"Young Reformers\" chiefly responsible for Russian privatization in the early 1990s. According to David Satter, author of \"Darkness at Dawn\", \"what drove the process was not the determination to create a system based on universal values but rather the will to introduce a system of private ownership, which, in the absence of law, opened the way for the criminal pursuit of money and power\". In some cases, outright criminal groups – in order to avoid attention – assign front-men to serve as executives and/or \"legal\" owners of the companies they control.\n\nAlthough the majority of oligarchs were not formally connected with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, there are allegations that they were promoted (at least initially) by the communist apparatchiks, with strong connections to Soviet power structures and access to the monetary funds of the Communist Party. Official Russian media usually depict oligarchs as the enemies of \"communist forces\". The latter is a stereotype that describes political power that wants to restore Soviet-style communism in Russia.\n\nDuring Yeltsin's presidency (1991–1999) oligarchs became increasingly influential in Russian politics; they played a significant role in financing the re-election of Yeltsin in 1996. With insider information about financial decisions of the government, oligarchs could easily increase their wealth even further. The 1998 Russian financial crisis hit some of the oligarchs hard, however, and those whose holdings were still based mainly on banking lost much of their fortunes.\n\nThe most influential and exposed oligarchs from the Yeltsin era include Boris Berezovsky, Mikhail Fridman, Vladimir Gusinsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Vladimir Potanin, Alexander Smolensky, Pyotr Aven, Vladimir Vinogradov and Vitaly Malkin. They formed what became known as Semibankirschina (or seven bankers), a small group of business moguls with a great influence on Boris Yeltsin and his political environment. Together they controlled from 50% to 70% of all Russian finances between 1996 and 2000.\n\nFridman, Potanin, Aven and Malkin are the only ones on the list to have retained their influence in the Putin era, which began in 1999. Khodorkovsky, Berezovsky and Gusinsky \"have been purged by the Kremlin\", according to \"The Guardian\" in 2008.\n\nThe most famous oligarchs of the Putin era include Roman Abramovich, Alexander Abramov, Oleg Deripaska, Mikhail Prokhorov, Alisher Usmanov, German Khan, Viktor Vekselberg, Leonid Mikhelson, Vagit Alekperov, Mikhail Fridman, Vladimir Potanin, Pyotr Aven, and Vitaly Malkin.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2004, Putin apparently engaged in a power-struggle with some oligarchs, reaching a \"grand bargain\" with them. This bargain allowed the oligarchs to maintain their powers, in exchange for their explicit support of – and alignment with – Putin's government. Many more business people have become oligarchs during Putin's time in power, and often due to personal relations with Putin, such as the rector of the institute where Putin obtained a degree in 1996, Vladimir Litvinenko, and Putin's childhood friend and judo-teacher Arkady Rotenberg. However, other analysts argue that the oligarchic structure has remained intact under Putin, with Putin devoting much of his time to mediating power-disputes between rival oligarchs. Some had been imprisoned, such as Mikhael Mirilashvili.\n\nDuring Putin's presidency, a number of oligarchs came under fire for various illegal activities, particularly tax evasion in the businesses they acquired. However, it is widely speculated and believed that the charges were also politically motivated per these tycoons falling out of favor with the Kremlin. Vladimir Gusinsky of MediaMost and Boris Berezovsky both avoided legal proceedings by leaving Russia, and the most prominent, Mikhail Khodorkovsky of Yukos oil, was arrested in October 2003 and sentenced to 9 years. This was subsequently extended to 14 years, and after Putin pardoned him, he was released on 20 December 2013. The term 'oligarch' has also been applied to technology investors such as Yuri Milner, although without involvement in Russian politics.\n\nDefenders of the out-of-favor oligarchs, often associated with Chubais's party—the Union of Right Forces, argue that the companies they acquired were not highly valued at the time because they still ran on Soviet principles, with non-existent stock-control, huge payrolls, no financial reporting and scant regard for profit. They turned the businesses around and made them profitable for shareholders. They obtain little sympathy from the Russian public due to resentment over the economic disparity they represent.\n\nAn economic study distinguishes 21 oligarchic groups as of 2003.\n\nIn 2004, \"Forbes\" listed 36 billionaires of Russian citizenship, with a note: \"this list includes businessmen of Russian citizenship who acquired the major share of their wealth privately, while not holding a governmental position\". In 2005, the number of billionaires dropped to 30, mostly because of the Yukos case, with Khodorkovsky dropping from #1 (US$15.2 billion) to #21 (US$2.0 billion).\n\nA 2013 report by Credit Suisse found that 35% of the wealth of Russia was owned by the wealthiest 110 individuals.\n\nBillionaire, philanthropist, art patron and former KGB agent Alexander Lebedev has criticized the oligarchs, saying \"I think material wealth for them is a highly emotional and spiritual thing. They spend a lot of money on their own personal consumption.\" Lebedev has also described them as \"a bunch of uncultured ignoramuses\", saying \"They don't read books. They don't have time. They don't go to [art] exhibitions. They think the only way to impress anyone is to buy a yacht.\" He also notes that the oligarchs have no interest in social injustice.\n\nIn 2018, the USA Treasury published a \"list of oligarchs\" per Pub.L. 115–44.\n\nA significant number of Russian oligarchs have bought homes in upmarket sections of London in the United Kingdom, which has been dubbed \"Moscow on Thames.\" Some, such as Eugene Shvidler, Alexander Knaster, Konstantin Kagalovsky and Abram Reznikov, are expatriates, having taken permanent residency in London. This community has led to journalists calling the city \"Londongrad\". Most own homes in both countries as well as property and have acquired controlling interests in major European companies. They commute on a regular basis between the EU and Russia; in many cases their families reside in London, with their children attending school there. In 2007 Abram Reznikov bought one of Spain's mega recycling companies, Alamak Espana Trade SL, while Roman Abramovich bought the English football club, Chelsea F.C., in 2003, spending record amounts on players' salaries.\n\nThe billionaire Moscow oligarch Mikhail Fridman, Russia's second richest man as of 2016, is currently restoring Athlone House in London as a primary residence, to be worth an estimated £130 million when restored.\n\nAccording to the financial news-agency Bloomberg L.P., Russia's wealthiest 25 individuals have collectively lost US $230 billion (£146 billion) since July 2008. The fall in the oligarchs' wealth relates closely to the meltdown in Russia's stock market, as by 2008 the RTS Index had lost 71% of its value due to the capital flight after the Russo-Georgian War of August 2008.\n\nBillionaires in Russia and Ukraine have been particularly hard-hit by lenders seeking repayment on balloon loans in order to shore up their own balance sheets. Many oligarchs took out generous loans from Russian banks, bought shares, and then took out more loans from western banks against the value of these shares. One of the first to get hit by the global downturn was Oleg Deripaska, Russia's richest man at the time, who had a net worth of US$28 billion in March 2008. As Deripaska borrowed money from western banks using shares in his companies as collateral, the collapse in share price forced him to sell holdings to satisfy the margin calls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38282782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38282782", "title": "Samuel Gustaf Hermelin", "text": "Samuel Gustaf Hermelin\n\nSamuel Gustaf Hermelin (4 April 1744, Stockholm – 4 March 1820) was a Swedish industrialist, diplomat and cartographer. Samuel Gustaf also belonged to the Swedish nobility. He attended the University of Uppsala for mining. In 1782, he went to the United States to study the mining operations and served as the first Swedish ambassador to the United States. He eventually moved back to Sweden and owned a mining company in Lapland. Samuel Gustaf was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1784.\n"}
{"id": "3618338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618338", "title": "Sokratis Kokkalis", "text": "Sokratis Kokkalis\n\nSokratis Kokkalis (Greek: Σωκράτης Κόκκαλης; 1939) is a Greek billionaire businessman. His father, Petros Kokkalis, was a communist politician and Greek Resistance member, living in exile in East Germany after the end of the Greek Civil War.\n\nKokkalis is the founder and majority shareholder of Intracom Holdings, one of the largest multinational technology groups in Southern Europe, and the Chairman and majority shareholder of Intralot S.A., a gaming technology supplier and licensed lottery operator. He has established and presides over the Kokkalis Foundation, a non-profit organization that \"promotes education and training, culture and social welfare, medical research and information technology, and athletics\", both in Greece and abroad. In 2015 Socrates Kokkalis net worth is estimated to be around US$1.2 billion.\n\nKokkalis founded Intracom in 1977 as a telecommunication equipment supplier and manufacturer. The company played a leading role in the modernization of telecommunication infrastructure in Greece, especially through a partnership with Ericsson for the manufacturing of digital switches. Intracom expanded in Southeastern Europe and became a leading exporting technology Group, including the areas of software for the public sector, defense electronics and construction. It is listed in the Athens Stock Exchange since 1990.\n\nKokkalis founded Intralot in 1992, as a hardware and software supplier for the gaming industry. Intralot became one of the three top companies in the sector worldwide, currently with 5,400 employees and presence in 35 countries. Intralot has a strong presence in the United States, with a 20% market share for lotteries, offering its services to 11 State Lotteries.\n\nKokkalis also led Panafon, the mobile venture of Vodafone in Greece, immediately after the launch of mobile telephony in Greece in 1992.\n\nIn 2005 INTRACOM became a Holding company and acquired Hellas Online, an ISP provider which became a major telephony and Internet supplier. Hellas Online was sold to Vodafone in 2014. The same year Intracom Holdings divested also form the telecom manufacturing arm, Intracom Telecom. The Holding today owns three major companies, the construction branch Intrakat, the software developer Intrasoft International, which is an ORACLE partner and a major supplier to the European Commission and the European Parliament, and Intracom Defense Electronics, with a strong partnership with RAYTHEON. The three companies today employ 2,200 people and have presence in 70 countries around the world. Most of the Group revenues come from exports and international activities.\n\nKokkalis was, for 18 years until 30 December 2010, owner and chairman of the Greek football club Olympiacos FC. He took the club after the difficult years of the Koskotas scandal and managed to bring it back in success.\n\nDuring his tenure the club won 12 top division titles, five Greek Cups, and one Greek Super Cup. It was also during his chairmanship that Olympiacos leased from the Greek state and for a period of 50 years their homeground Karaiskakis Stadium, which was until that time used by Olympiacos and other Piraeus clubs strictly on a rental basis, and undertook a complete rebuilding of the stadium itself.\n\nGerman authorities' investigations in the Stasi archives found a 350-page report referring to agent \"Rocco\" (\"953/63\") and later \"Kaskade\" and \"Krokus\". It was alleged that \"Rocco\" was the code name for Sokratis Kokkalis, allegedly recruited on 25 January 1963. Kokkalis was alleged to have subsequently bribed Greek officials in order for the national telecommunications company of Greece to purchase East German telecommunications equipment.\n\nThe German Federal Parliament, conducted a detailed investigation and concluded in 1998, that there has been no evidence linking Kokkalis activities and his companies to the DDR.\n\nKostas Tsimas, a former chief of the Greek intelligence service (EYP) and very close friend of former Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, stated that Kokkalis is \"a Greek patriot\", who \"worked for Greek national interests in the Balkans and elsewhere\".\n\nKokkalis was criticized by Greek and international media about his activities in Russia, where his company Intralot had sold lottery equipment, technological know-how and software. However, no formal charges were ever filed for any Intralot representative, and the Russian government expressed its trust in Kokkalis and Intralot.\n\nExtensive criticism was also received in the Romanian press by Kokkalis and the companies Intralot and Intracom for allegedly bribing Romanian officials into signing and extending contracts between the Greek firms and the Romanian Lottery that were thoroughly disadvantageous for the Romanian side, with losses totalling up to 1bn Euros as of April 2014.\n\nKokkalis was made a John Harvard fellow in 1997, and received awards from The Fulbright Foundation and the American Academy of Achievement for \"his leadership in creating educational opportunities and building bridges of cooperation.\"\n\nIn particular, Kokkalis founded a scholarship program at Harvard bearing his name, which during 15 years offered fellowships for 80 graduates of master's degree Programs at Harvard Kennedy School of Government and 3,000 Executive Training opportunities for individuals from Southeastern Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "45283382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45283382", "title": "Stéphan Crétier", "text": "Stéphan Crétier\n\nStephan Crétier (born 8 August 1963) is a Canadian businessman and entrepreneur. He is the founding president and chief executive officer of GardaWorld, one of the largest privately held security provider in the world.\nCrétier founded GardaWorld in 1995 with an investment of $25,000, which he raised by placing a second mortgage on his home. The company now generates over $3 billion in annual revenues and is one of the largest employers in the security industry, with 65,000 employees worldwide. Over the past 20 years, Crétier has pushed the expansion of his company into the security and cash services sectors, having grown the company through strategic acquisitions across Canada and into the United States, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, Asia, and North Africa.\n\nRecognized as Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 1998, Growth Leader by Profit 100 magazine for 11 consecutive years, and Great Entrepreneur of the Year in 2006, Crétier was named one of Canada's Entrepreneurs of the Decade by Profit Magazine in 2009 and recipient of the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal in 2012. He took the company private in a $1.1 billion transaction with support from private equity firm Apax Partners.\n"}
{"id": "46313018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46313018", "title": "SunTrust Tower", "text": "SunTrust Tower\n\nSunTrust Tower (originally American Heritage Life Building) is a skyscraper in the downtown area of Jacksonville, Florida, at the northwest corner of Independent Drive and Laura Street. Standing tall, it is the city's sixth tallest building. It was formerly known as the Jacksonville Center and the Humana Building, among other names. Completed in 1989, the building was designed in the postmodern style by the Jacksonville firm KBJ Architects.\n\n"}
{"id": "22065346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22065346", "title": "Technocracy Study Course", "text": "Technocracy Study Course\n\nThe Technocracy Study Course is a technocratic critique of the price system, written by M. King Hubbert and first published in 1934. It is the ideological basis for the Technocracy movement, highlighting economic and social consequences of the capitalist price system and suggests an alternative socioeconomic system based on physical laws and constraints.\n"}
{"id": "5989199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989199", "title": "Ted Bates (executive)", "text": "Ted Bates (executive)\n\nTheodore Lewis \"Ted\" Bates (September 11, 1901 – May 30, 1972) was an American advertising executive who founded a worldwide advertising agency that bears his name: Ted Bates Inc.\n\nBorn in New Haven, Connecticut, Bates attended Phillips-Andover Academy, then graduated from Yale University in 1924. He founded Ted Bates & Co. in 1940, which evolved into the 21st-century advertising agency Bates 141. His empire launched in Asia in the early 1960s after acquiring a stake in Cathay Advertising from George Patterson, an Australian advertising executive. Cathay Advertising was used by Bates as a vehicle to drive expansion in the region so that by the late 1960s, Ted Bates Inc. was operating in Manila, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1982, the American Advertising Federation (AAF) inducted Bates with Charles H. Brower and Bernice Fitz-Gibbon to the Advertising Hall of Fame. His creative partner, advertising maverick Rosser Reeves, described the reasons for Bates' success at the induction: \nThere are two things not commonly known which I want to put on the record today. Very early on at one fell swoop, Ted Bates gave away 90 percent of his agency to his key people. When I asked him why, he said, 'Rosser, I would rather own 10 percent of a success than 100 percent of a failure.' And that leads to the other thing. By making us rich and therefore making us work like demons, Ted built an agency that for the first 26 consecutive years did not lose a client...\n\n"}
{"id": "2162735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2162735", "title": "Textile manufacturing", "text": "Textile manufacturing\n\nTextile manufacturing is a major industry. It is based on the conversion of fiber into yarn, yarn into fabric. These are then dyed or printed, fabricated into clothes. Different types of fibers are used to produce yarn. Cotton remains the most important natural fiber, so is treated in depth. There are many variable processes available at the spinning and fabric-forming stages coupled with the complexities of the finishing and colouration processes to the production of a wide ranges of products. There remains a large industry that uses hand techniques to achieve the same results.\n\nCotton is the world's most important natural fibre. In the year 2007, the global yield was 25 million tons from 35 million hectares cultivated in more than 50 countries.\n\nThere are six stages:\n\nCotton is grown anywhere with long, hot dry summers with plenty of sunshine and low humidity. Indian cotton, gossypium arboreum, is finer but the staple is only suitable for hand processing. American cotton, gossypium hirsutum, produces the longer staple needed for machine production. Planting is from September to mid November and the crop is harvested between March and June. The cotton bolls are harvested by stripper harvesters and spindle pickers, that remove the entire boll from the plant. The cotton boll is the seed pod of the cotton plant, attached to each of the thousands of seeds are fibres about 2.5 cm long. \n\n\nScutching refers to the process of cleaning cotton of its seeds and other impurities. The first scutching machine was invented in 1797, but did not come into further mainstream use until after 1808 or 1809, when it was introduced and used in Manchester, England. By 1816, it had become generally adopted. The scutching machine worked by passing the cotton through a pair of rollers, and then striking it with iron or steel bars called beater bars or beaters. The beaters, which turn very quickly, strike the cotton hard and knock the seeds out. This process is done over a series of parallel bars so as to allow the seeds to fall through. At the same time, air is blown across the bars, which carries the cotton into a cotton chamber.\n \n\n\n\n\nThe weaving process uses a loom. The lengthway threads are known as the warp, and the cross way threads are known as the weft. The warp, which must be strong, needs to be presented to loom on a warp beam. The weft passes across the loom in a shuttle, that carries the yarn on a pirn. These pirns are automatically changed by the loom. Thus, the yarn needs to be wrapped onto a beam, and onto pirns before weaving can commence.\n\n\n\n\nWhen a hand loom was located in the home, children helped with the weaving process from an early age. Piecing needs dexterity, and a child can be as productive as an adult. When weaving moves from the home to the mill, children are often allowed to \"help\" their older sisters, and laws have to be made to prevent child labour becoming established.\n\nKnitting by machine is done in two different ways; warp and weft. Weft knitting (as seen in the pictures) is similar in method to hand knitting with stitches all connected to each other horizontally. Various weft machines can be configured to produce textiles from a single spool of yarn or multiple spools depending on the size of the machine cylinder (where the needles are bedded). In a warp knit there are many pieces of yarn and there are vertical chains, zigzagged together by crossing the cotton yarn.\n\nWarp knits do not stretch as much as a weft knit, and it is run-resistant. A weft knit is not run-resistant, but stretches more. This is especially true if spools of spandex are processed from separate spool containers and interwoven through the cylinder with cotton yarn, giving the finished product more flexibility and making it less prone to having a 'baggy' appearance. The average t-shirt is a weft knit.\n\nThe woven cotton fabric in its loom-state not only contains impurities, including warp size, but requires further treatment in order to develop its full textile potential. Furthermore, it may receive considerable added value by applying one or more finishing processes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nProduction of cotton requires arable land.\nIn addition, cotton is farmed intensively and uses large amounts of fertilizer and 25% of the world's insecticides. Native Indian varieties of cotton were rainwater fed, but modern hybrids used for the mills need irrigation, which spreads pests. The 5% of cotton-bearing land in India uses 55% of all pesticides used in India. In United Kingdom some companies design cloths for manufacturers such as Sewport, and Bridge & Stitch.\n\nThe consumption of energy in form of water and electricity is relatively high, especially in processes like washing, de-sizing, bleaching, rinsing, dyeing, printing, coating and finishing. Processing is time consuming. The major portion of water in textile industry is used for wet processing of textile (70 per cent). Approximately 25 per cent of energy in the total textile production like fibre production, spinning, twisting, weaving, knitting, clothing manufacturing etc. is used in dyeing. About 34 per cent of energy is consumed in spinning, 23 per cent in weaving, 38 per cent in chemical wet processing and five per cent in miscellaneous processes. Power dominates consumption pattern in spinning and weaving, while thermal energy is the major factor for chemical wet processing.\n\nCotton acts as a carbon sink as it contains cellulose and this contains 44,44% carbon. However, due to carbon emissions from fertiliser application, use of mechanized tools to harvest the cotton, ... cotton manufacture tends to emit more CO² than what it stores in the form of cellulose.\n\nThe growth of cotton is divided into two segments i.e. organic and genetically modified. Cotton crop provides livelihood to millions of people but its production is becoming expensive because of high water consumption, use of expensive pesticides, insecticides and fertiliser. Genetically modified products aim to increase disease resistance and reduce the water required. The organic sector was worth $583 million. Genetically modified cotton, in 2007, occupied 43% of cotton growing areas.\n\nBefore mechanisation, cotton was harvested manually by farmers in India and by African slaves in America. In 2012 Uzbekistan was a major exporter of cotton and uses manual labour during the harvest. Human rights groups claim that health care professionals and children are forced to pick cotton.\n\nFlax is a bast fibre, which means it comes in bundles under the bark of the Linum usitatissimum plant. The plant flowers and is harvested.\nIt is now treated like cotton.\n\nJute is a bast fibre, which comes from the inner bark of the plants of the Corchorus genus. It is retted like flax, sundried and baled. When spinning a small amount of oil must be added to the fibre. It can be bleached and dyed. It was used for sacks and bags but is now used for the backing for carpets. Jute can be blended with other fibres to make composite fabrics and work continues in Bangladesh to refine the processes and extend the range of usage possible. In the 1970s, jute-cotton composite fabrics were known as \"jutton\" fabrics.\n\nHemp is a bast fibre from the inner bark of Cannabis sativa. It is difficult to bleach, it is used for making cord and rope.\n\nThese bast fibres can also be used: kenaf, urena, ramie, nettle.\n\nSisal is the main leaf fibre used; others are: abacá and henequen.\n\nWool comes from domesticated sheep. It forms two products, woolens and worsteds. The sheep has two sorts of wool and it is the inner coat that is used. This can be mixed with wool that has been recovered from rags. Shoddy is the term for recovered wool that is not matted, while mungo comes from felted wool. Extract is recovered chemically from mixed cotton/wool fabrics.\n\nThe fleece is cut in one piece from the sheep.This is then skirted to remove the soiled wool, and baled. It is graded into long wool where the fibres can be up to 15 in, but anything over 2.5 inches is suitable for combing into worsteds. Fibres less than that form short wool and are described as clothing or carding wool.\n\nAt the mill the wool is scoured in a detergent to remove grease (the yolk) and impurities. This is done mechanically in the opening machine. Vegetable matter can be removed chemically using sulphuric acid (carbonising). Washing uses a solution of soap and sodium carbonate. The wool is oiled before carding or combing.\n\nThe processes in silk production are similar to those of cotton but take account that reeled silk is a continuous fibre. The terms used are different.\n\nBoth wool and silk require farmland. Whereas silkworms require mulberry leaves, sheep eat grass, clover, forbs and other pasture plants. Sheep, like all ruminants emit CO2 via their digestive system. Also, their pastures may sometimes be fertilised which further increases emissions.\n\nSynthetic fibers are the result of extensive development by scientists to improve upon the naturally occurring animal and plant fibers. In general, synthetic fibers are created by forcing, or extruding, fiber forming materials through holes (called spinnerets) into the air, thus forming a thread. Before synthetic fibers were developed, cellulose fibers were made from natural cellulose, which comes from plants.\n\nThe first artificial fiber, known as art silk from 1799 onwards, became known as viscose around 1894, and finally rayon in 1924. A similar product known as cellulose acetate was discovered in 1865. Rayon and acetate are both artificial fibers, but not truly synthetic, being made from wood. Although these artificial fibers were discovered in the mid-nineteenth century, successful modern manufacture began much later in the 1930s. Nylon, the first synthetic fiber, made its debut in the United States as a replacement for silk, and was used for parachutes and other military uses. \n\nThe techniques used to process these fibers in yarn are essentially the same as with natural fibers, modifications have to be made as these fibers are of great length, and have no texture such as the scales in cotton and wool that aid meshing.\n\nUnlike natural fibres, produced by plants, animals or insects, synthetic fibres are made from fossil fuels, and thus require no farmland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13133097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13133097", "title": "The Five Dysfunctions of a Team", "text": "The Five Dysfunctions of a Team\n\nThe Five Dysfunctions of a Team is a business book by consultant and speaker Patrick Lencioni first published in 2002. It describes the many pitfalls that teams face as they seek to \"grow together\". This book explores the fundamental causes of organizational politics and team failure. Like most of Lencioni's books, the bulk of it is written as a business fable. This book has appeared on American best-seller lists including: \"The New York Times Best Seller List\", \"Business Week\", \"Wall Street Journal\" and \"USA Today\".\n\nThe issues it describes were considered especially important to team sports. The book's lessons were applied by several coaches to their teams in the National Football League in the United States.\n\nAccording to the book, the five dysfunctions are:\n\n\n\n\nGordon Curphy and Robert Hogan, both organizational psychologists and leadership researchers, provide a critical perspective on Lencioni's team model in their book The Rocket Model: Practical Advice for Building High Performing Teams. While they clearly emphasize The Five Dysfunctions of a Team's contributions to the field they also point out major drawbacks of the model:\n\n\"Lencioni's model provides useful insights about team dynamics and has some advantages over the other models. The model is straightforward, identifies many of the reasons why teams fail, and offers practical advice on how to build high-functioning teams. Lencioni also deserves credit for pointing out the following: (1) the importance of the \"first team\"; (2) the need for leaders to teach teams how to win; (3) the recognition of time wasted avoiding conflict; and (4) cascading effect of leadership team dynamics. The simplicity of the Five Dysfunctions model, key insights, and 'touchy-feely' approach to team building make it popular among human resource professionals and team consultants. Nonetheless, Lencioni's book is explicitly a work of fiction; it is not based on research and its practical recommendations lack empirical support. For example, when the trust level among team members is low, Lencioni recommends that leaders put them through a series of personal disclosures and outdoor experiential exercises. However, there is little likelihood that these activities can build trust in dysfunctional work teams. It is more likely that leaders of low-trust teams will invite the members to a paint ball outing but be the only persons with guns. According to Katzenbach and Smith, the only effective method for teams to build trust and cohesion is to do real work, and using the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, the results do not constitute real work. Similar problems afflict the four other dysfunctions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33712079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33712079", "title": "Tony Cortes", "text": "Tony Cortes\n\nAntonio de Jesus Cortez Espina (born August 31, 1968 in La Havana, Cuba) is an actor in theater, film and television producer and host of controversial television shows. He resides in Miami, Florida.\n\nTony Cortes was born and raised in the neighborhood El Vedado in Havana. He began working in the entertainment industry at the age of eight, with the filming of the Cuban movie \"Los sobrevivientes\" (Survivors).\n\nFrom that moment on he started doing work in film and television. He studied at the Instituto Superior de Arte in Havana, he founded his own band BM Expresso recorded several CDs and produced for the record label Fania Records with Jerry Masucci and for the record label EGREM.\n\nTony Cortes appeared in soap operas, serials and other TV shows.\n\nTony Cortes was nominated for two Regional Emmy Awards on television as presenter/host in the categories \"Best Historical Cultural Program News\" Chapter \"Robaina\" and \"Best News Program in Politics and Government\" Chapter \"Mariel\" of the 2011 Emmy Awards Suncoast Chapter.\n\nThe nominations were a prize to documentary \"Sobre mis Pasos\", a serial -style reality show for the \"Maria Elvira Live\" Maria Elvira Salazar- aired in the national channel Mega TV (United States) and in which Cortes tells how he is finally allowed to enter Cuba after seven years of absence and not being able to even attend the funeral of his father in December 2009.\n\nCortes then decides to return to embrace his aged mother, visit the grave of his father and reconnect with all those things that are foreign: his people, his neighborhood and his friends.\n\nThis documentary series of ten 10-minute episodes shows the reality of Cuba, the feeling of its people, their daily life and the changes that are currently brewing in the heart of this people.\n"}
{"id": "51088660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51088660", "title": "Transaction cost analysis", "text": "Transaction cost analysis\n\nTransaction cost analysis (TCA), as used by institutional investors, is defined by the \"Financial Times\" as \"the study of trade prices to determine whether the trades were arranged at favourable prices – low prices for purchases and high prices for sales\". It is often split into two parts – pre-trade and post-trade. Recent regulations, such as the European Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, have required institutions to achieve best execution. This has resulted in the emergence of a number of companies who make TCA a central offering, such as Investment Technology Group, Bloomberg, Trade Informatics, Markit, and many others.\n\nPre-trade analysis is the process of taking known parameters of a planned trade and determining an execution strategy that will minimize the cost of transacting for a given level of acceptable risk. It is not possible to reduce both projected risk and cost past a certain efficient frontier, since reducing risk tolerance requires limiting market exposure and thus trading faster. In this situation, market impact cost is much greater than for trades that accept greater risk and are executed more slowly.\n\nRobert Almgren and Neil Chriss wrote their seminal paper on \"Optimal execution of portfolio transactions\", modelling the effect of transaction costs on the liquidation of an optimal portfolio. Robert Almgren and Tianhui Li subsequently expanded this to a paper on \"Option Hedging with Smooth Market Impact\", extending the original analysis to derivative markets.\n\nThe post-trade process involves first recording the data from previous trading periods, including trade timing, arrival price, average execution price, and relevant details about market movement. These data are then measured and compared to several benchmarks, such as the volume-weighted average price, time-weighted average price, participation-weighted average price, or a variety of other measures. Implementation shortfall is a commonly targeted benchmark, which is the sum of all explicit and implicit costs. Sometimes, an opportunity cost of not transacting is factored in. After measurement, costs must be attributed to their underlying causes. Finally, this analysis is used to evaluate performance and monitor future transactions.\n\nTransaction cost analysis aims to improve trading at the level of individual decisions. This requires accurately recording the timing and content for every event in an order's life cycle. Financial Information eXchange (FIX) messages usually provide a consistent and highly accurate source of information for interactions between traders and brokers.\n\nData drawn from an order management system (OMS) or execution management system (EMS), however, are not as granular or as uniform as data from FIX, potentially leading to flawed conclusions unless significant effort is made to address this concern. All gaps must be filled in by supplementing FIX or OMS/EMS messages by communicating with brokers, traders, and portfolio managers.\n\nA variety of measures and benchmarks are used in transaction cost analysis. The multitude of definitions for best execution and the dangers inherent in placing too much emphasis on a single statistic necessitate the ability to compare agents to a diverse set of benchmarks. These comparisons allow costs to be split into several categories, including explicit cost, implicit cost, delay cost, and opportunity cost. The accurate measurement of each of these costs is necessary to facilitate decision management. For example, if the combination of explicit and implicit costs, which represent the realized cost of transacting, is greater than the opportunity cost of not transacting, it suggests that trades may have been executed too quickly. If the reverse is true, it suggests the need to execute more quickly.\n\nReliable measurements allow decisions to be matched with observed outcomes. In the attribution phase, the four cost categories are broken down further, turning previously confusing statistics into intuitive measures representing specific aspects of a trade. For example, application of a transaction cost model helps split Implementation Shortfall into the parts resulting from the size of the order, volatility, or paying to cover the spread. Proper attribution must also distinguish the influence of market factors (i.e. Sector, Region, Market capitalization, and Momentum) from that of human skill.\n\nIt is at this stage that problems that can arise if data is not supplemented with communication become clearly evident. For example, an incorrect determination of the time a trader gained control of an order could result in an unfair impact on the performance reported for that trader, when in reality the problem may have resulted from a delay between the portfolio manager and the desk.\n\nThe final stage of transaction cost analysis involves combining the results of the measurement and attribution to evaluate each agent. This is often done through periodic reports detailing important statistics as well as graphics to help visualize trends in the data. Transaction cost analysis providers will often include regular consulting to help draw conclusions from the data, establish goals to improve performance, and monitor future trading to determine the impact of any changes.\n"}
{"id": "19799715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19799715", "title": "Transnationality Index", "text": "Transnationality Index\n\nThe Transnationality Index (TNI) is a means of ranking multinational corporations that is employed by economists and politicians. It is calculated as the arithmetic mean of the following three ratios (where \"foreign\" means outside of the corporation's home country):\n\nThe Transnationality Index was developed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.\n\nMultinational corporations are also ranked by the amount of foreign assets that they own. However, the TNI ranking can differ markedly from this. For example, as of 2000, General Electric was the second largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign assert ownership. However, it ranked only 73rd by the TNI, with an index of only 40%. Although the company had large investments outside of the United States, most of its sales, employment, and assets were within the U.S.. In contrast, Exxon has a TNI of 68% and Vodafone has a TNI of 81%. As of 2001, General Electric ranked 75th, with a TNI of 36.7%. The 14 most transnational corporations originated in small countries (Switzerland, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium, and Canada), whereas the largest multinational corporations in terms of foreign asset ownership all had low TNI scores. General Motors, the fourth largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign asset ownership only ranked 83rd (30.7%) on the TNI top 100. IBM ranked 50th (53.7%), Volkswagen ranked 45th (55.7%), and Toyota, the sixth largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign asset ownership, only ranked 82nd (30.9%) on the broader TNI scale.\n\nPeter Dicken, an honorary fellow of the School of Environment and Development at the University of Manchester, argues that TNI data refute the assertions of hyperglobalism. The data, he argues, prove false the claim that multinational corporations are \"inexorably, and inevitably, abandoning their ties to their country of origin\". If that were the case, we would expect the largest multinational corporations to have the majority of their assets, sales, and employmnent outside of their countries of origin, and thus the majority of those corporations to have high TNIs. In fact, in the UNCTAD TNI data for the top 100 multinational corporations for 2001, the mean TNI is 52.6%, 57 of the 100 have a TNI greater than 50%, and only a mere 16 have a TNI greater than 75%. Thus, he concludes, measured TNI data provide little evidence for multinational corporations having the proportions of their assets, sales, and employees outside of their home countries that one would expect for truly global firms.\n\n"}
{"id": "10032565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10032565", "title": "Value grid", "text": "Value grid\n\nThe value grid model was proposed by Pil and Holweg as a means to show that the way firms compete has shifted away from the linear value chain way management theory has traditionally thought about value chain management.\n\nThe advantages of a value-grid framework, as opposed to value chains, is in allowing companies' managers to strategize and coordinate operations. Common non-linear value chain strategies include influencing demand, modifying information access, exploring multitier penetration, managing risk, seizing value, integrating value, creating new value propositions, exploiting value chains across tiers, pursuing pinch-point mapping, and defining demand enablers.\n\nPil, F.K. and Holweg, M. (2006) \"Evolving from value chain to value grid.\" MIT Sloan Management Review, 47(4): 72-80\n\n"}
