{"id": "11206680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11206680", "title": "Andrew Geddis", "text": "Andrew Geddis\n\nAndrew Geddis (July 1886 – 23 February 1976) was a leading business man and sports enthusiast in Bombay in the decades leading up to independence.\nHe was Chairman of the Royal Western India Turf Club (1931–1939) and instigated Mumbai Races's A.Geddis Plate. His extensive business interests included a directorship of the Bank of India Ltd and co-founding Geoffrey Manners & Co. Ltd., which became a leading distributor and manufacturer of Consumer Healthcare products and Pharmaceuticals across India until its amalgamation in April 2003 with the Wyeth Corporation, formerly known as American Home Products (AHP),one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world.\n\nHe left Bruntsfield Place in Edinburgh for Bombay in 1907 to work for James Finlay & Co. Ltd. and went on to become extensively involved in the Ahmedabad textile industry becoming a Director of the Ahmedabad Jubilee Spinning & Manufacturing Co., Ltd. and the Ahmedabad Manufacturing & Calico Printing Co. Ltd., as well as Director of the India Cotton Association and the Chairman of Mill Owners' Mutual Insurance Association Ltd from its inception. \n\nHis wider interests included, as well as co-founding Geoffrey Manners & Co. Ltd., directorships of the Tata Hydroelectric Power Supply Co., Ltd., the Indian Radio & Cable Communications Co.and the Bank of India Ltd. He was a member of the G. 1. P. Railway Advisory committee for 13 years and was appointed to the Board of Trustees for the Bombay Port trust in 1920..\nA keen horse racing enthusiast, as well as his chairmanship of the Western India Turf Club was also Chairman of the Turf Club House, Poona. Other interests included being Chairman of the Bombay Scottish Orphanage Society and Chairman of the Caledonia Society of Bombay. \n\nOn arrival in India he stayed in the Pali Hill \"Chummery\". After his marriage to Jean Gunn, daughter of Dr Alexander Gunn of Edinburgh in 1915, he moved to Dharbanga Masions on Cumballa Hill before finally moving to the fourth floor apartment on the left below the penthouse in the iconic art deco Kamal Mahal building, originally called Sethna House, on Carmichael Road in South Mumbai, which together with the adjacent Altamont Road was rated the tenth dearest address in the world in a in 2009 survey. He also had a beach house at Juhu.\n"}
{"id": "31489404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31489404", "title": "Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain", "text": "Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain\n\nThe Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain is a bronze fountain sculpture by Sidney Waugh as a memorial to Andrew W. Mellon. It is located in Washington D.C., United States, just north of the National Gallery of Art, at Pennsylvania Avenue, Constitution Avenue, and 6th Street NW. The fountain is maintained by the Department of the Interior and was dedicated on May 9, 1952, by Harry S. Truman.\n\nThe round fountain is made up of three small-to-large nested bronze basins, which sit in a granite outer basin. The outer, and largest, bronze basin is decorated in zodiac signs which sit in their \"correct astrological position for the sun's rays.\" The small basin serves as the venue for a 20 foot tall water spouting jet. The water then proceeds to spill over the small basin and over the edge of the other basins, eventually over and into the granite basin. Surrounding the fountain is a seven foot wide granite walkway and a semi-circular granite bench.\n\nThe inscription on the bench reads:\n\n\"It sits like an island, traffic whizzing by on the three major arteries.\" - Gary Tischler\n\nThe fountain serves as a tribute to Andrew Mellon who served as Secretary of the Treasury from 1921–1932 and ambassador to Great Britain from 1932-1933. The fountain shares a Classical architecture style with and sits close by to the National Gallery of Art where Mellon donated his art collection, as well as funding to build the art museum. This memorial fountain cost $300,000, which was donated by Mellon's friends through the Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Committee. The fountain was dedicated on May 9, 1952 and sits on the former site of the Saint James Hotel.\n\nIts creation was authorized by Congress on July 16, 1947 by the Joint Resolution 1701:\n\nThe fountain's cascading design was inspired by a fountain in Genoa, Italy. Tuck and Eipel served as the structural engineers and Edward E. Ashley Associates were the mechanical engineers. While excavating for the fountain a 7 ft. x 8 ft. underground tunnel was discovered. The tunnel had to be backfilled with concrete to make a proper bearing capacity for the fountain. Two concentric rings of 30-ton concrete piles had to be driven down 30–40 ft. into the ground to ensure that the ground was level. The largest bronze basin was the largest of its kind ever cast at the time and required \"casting in four sections\" which had to be fitted together \"with great precision.\" The fountain was cast by the General Bronze Company and Modern Art Factory may have cast the zodiac signs. The pink granite used is from the Swenson Pink Granite Quarry in South Berwick, Maine.\n\nThe Aries zodiac faces directly east with the Libra symbol facing west and the Virgo symbol arranged along Pennsylvania Avenue, leading to some believing that Masonic influences were essential in the architecture. On the vernal equinox the sun directly hits Aries, which then faces the rising sun a month later.\n\nIn 1993 the fountain was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program and was described as \"well maintained.\"\n\nSidney Waugh, who designed the zodiacs, also designed the sculptures seen outside of the National Archives and Records Administration and the Federal Reserve Board buildings in Washington, D.C.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2665708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2665708", "title": "Bonifacio Global City", "text": "Bonifacio Global City\n\nBonifacio Global City (also known as BGC, Global City, or The Fort) is a financial and lifestyle district in Metro Manila, Philippines. It is located south-east of the center of Manila. The district experienced commercial growth following the sale of military land by the Bases Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA). The entire district used to be the part of the main Philippine Army camp.\n\nIt is under the administration of the city government of Taguig. The local governments of Makati and Pateros also claims jurisdiction.\n\nIn February 7, 1995, Bonifacio Land Development Corporation (BLDC) started planning a major urban development—Bonifacio Global City. BLDC made a successful bid to become BCDA's partner in the development of the district. The Ayala Corporation through Ayala Land, Inc., and Evergreen Holdings, Inc. of the Campos Group purchased a controlling stake in BLDC from Metro Pacific in 2003. BCDA and the two companies now control Fort Bonifacio Development Corporation, which oversees the master planning of Bonifacio Global City.\n\nDuring the American colonial period, the US government acquired a 25.78 square kilometre property within what was then disputed area between Makati, Taguig and Pateros for military purposes. This area (TCT dated 1902) was turned into a camp then known as Fort William McKinley after the 25th US president, William McKinley. After the Philippines gained its political independence from the United States on July 4, 1946, the US bestowed to the Republic of the Philippines all rights of possession, jurisdiction, supervision and control over the Philippine territory except the use of their military bases. On May 14, 1949, Fort McKinley was turned over to the Philippine government by virtue of US Embassy Note No. 0570.\n\nUnder the AFP leadership of Gen. Alfonso Arellano, Fort McKinley was made the permanent headquarters of the Philippine Army in 1957 and was subsequently renamed Fort Bonifacio, after the Father of the Philippine Revolution against Spain, Andres Bonifacio, whose father, Santiago Bonifacio, was a native of Taguig (then part of the Province of Manila / Tondo).\n\nOn December 9, 1937 the Deed of Absolute sale executed by the owner, Don Anacleto Madrigal Acopiado in favor of the American Government covering the area of 100 hectares, portion of Bicutan, Taguig, annotated at the back of TCT No. 408. During the American Commonwealth, it was converted to a Military base, named Fort McKinley. It was during the presidency of the late President Ferdinand E. Marcos' administration when Fort McKinley was renamed Fort Bonifacio and transferred to Makati. Taguig got the jurisdiction over Fort Bonifacio after winning the case against Makati in filed in the Pasig Regional Trial Court in 1993. Makati appealed the ruling, but the Pasig RTC in 2011 still sided with Taguig, saying that Fort Bonifacio including the -EMBO Baranggays are all part of Taguig. Makati then asked the Court of Appeals to review the case. The Court of Appeals overturned the Pasig Regional Trial Court's decision and reverted jurisdiction of the BGC in favor of Makati. As of date, Taguig has filed a Motion of Reconsideration at the Court of Appeals seeking to revert the decision. Status quo (meaning the latest ruling) remains with Makati. Taguig currently has de facto control over the area.\n\nIn February 7, 1995, Bonifacio Land Development Corporation, a consortium led by Metro Pacific, made a successful bid to become BCDA's partner in the development of Bonifacio Global City (BGC), the Home of Passionate Minds. Ayala Land, Inc. and Evergreen Holdings, Inc. of the Campos Group purchased a controlling stake in BLDC from Metro Pacific in 2003. BCDA and the two companies control Fort Bonifacio Development Corporation, which oversees the master planning of Bonifacio Global City. The Bonifacio Global City is a rich district with a high number of skyscrapers, even as the city is still rising. Many skyscrapers are under construction and will be built in future.\n\nBonifacio Global City is between EDSA and C-5 Road. There are seven major access points: access from the North and West through Kalayaan Avenue which connects it to the North Gate and the Kalayaan Flyover, access from Taguig in the West via EDSA through McKinley Road and to the McKinley Gate; the three main entrances (Upper East Gate, Sampaguita Gate, and Lower East Gate) from C-5 highway in the East; and from the airport through the Villamor Airbase to the South Gate by Fifth Avenue and Lawton Avenue.\n\nBGC is home to residential condominiums such as 8 Forbes Town Road, Bellagio, Essensa, Serendra, Pacific Plaza Towers, One McKinley Place, The Luxe Residences, Bonifacio Ridge Twin Towers, and Regent Parkway and corporate office buildings such as Net One and Bonifacio Technology Center. Many Filipino and multinational corporations have acquired properties and have committed to relocate their global, regional or national headquarters in the business district.\n\nThe Bonifacio High Street forms the physical core of the Bonifacio Global City and is essentially designed as a three-by-three matrix of high-tech offices and residential buildings, retail outlets and pedestrian-friendly roads and walkways. The grid approach ensures a city center that is easy to navigate. The 5th and 11th Avenues and 32nd and 26th Streets serve as the boundaries of the city center.\n\nAt the north, The One Bonifacio High Street, Where the PSE Tower, which houses the unified trading floor of the Philippine Stock Exchange, along with the Shangri-La at the Fort, Manila is also located here.\n\nThe Retail Promenade which encompasses the 29th Street is characterized by landscaped areas. Its design concept is centered on an east-west central access with business establishments and activity pods. It offers retail at the ground level and offices at the second floor. The City Square Blocks feature landscaped areas and parks.\n\nThe P20-billion tower was estimated to start construction by late 2008, by Federal Land, Inc. (led by its president Alfred Ty), on a 27-hectare North Bonifacio district lot (jointly owned by the Metrobank Group of Companies and the Bases Conversion Development Authority). The tower is the 65-storey Grand Hyatt Manila which currently is one of the tallest skyscrapers in Metro Manila, beside that is the Grand Hyatt Manila Residences.\n\nThe Forbes Town Center is Megaworld's 5-hectare township community, where 8 Forbestown Road, Forbeswood Heights, Forbeswood Parklane and Bellagio condominiums are. It has a combination of low density residential development, shopping strip, dining outlets, and other service facilities.\n\nUptown Bonifacio is a new 15-hectare property located in the northern district of Fort Bonifacio. Megaworld Corporation plans to build new residential condominiums (Uptown Parksuites, Uptown Ritz and One Uptown Residence) and mixed-use business and commercial developments in the area that cater to upper to middle class markets. The area is near the zone where the British, Japanese, and American international schools, and other local schools are located.\n\nAmong Megaworld's development projects in Metro Manila, the 50-hectare McKinley Hill is by far the biggest, where The Venice Luxury Residences, Viceroy and The Florence condominiums are located. Situated in Barangay Pinagsama in Taguig. McKinley Hill has over 4,713 condominium units in 34 residential condominium buildings, 482 residential lots, and close to 300,000 square meters of office space spread across 17 offices.\n\nThere are three international schools, which are the Chinese International School Manila, the first English-Mandarin bilingual school in the country; the management school Enderun Colleges, which is partnered with Les Roches International School of Hotel Management in Switzerland, Alain Ducasse Education in France and Thunderbird School of Global Management in the United States; and the Korean International School Philippines, the first in the country.\n\nMcKinley West is a 34.5-hectare township by Megaworld, where St. Moritz condominium is located. Turnover of the project is 2019.\n\nHeritage Park was developed by BCDA. It is a 76-hectare high-value, multi-use memorial park designed with landmarks and equipped with interment services, crematory and other facilities situated in Barangay Pinagsama. The park opened in the first quarter of 2001. Heritage Park is located along Bayani Road. It is between Libingan ng mga Bayani and The Manila American Cemetery and Memorial.\n\nThe Fort Bonifacio Tunnel (Bonifacio War Tunnel) is a tunnel in Bonifacio Global City, a district of Metro Manila, Philippines. It is considered to be a historical site by the Bases Conversion Development Authority. It is situated at the property of former military base Fort Bonifacio and now called Bonifacio Global City. It has since become hidden underneath the streets that traverse C-5 and Kalayaan Avenue. The Libingan ng mga Bayani (Heroes' Cemetery) is a memorial ground housing 33,520 Filipino soldiers killed in Bataan, Corregidor and other battlefields in World War II. Presidents of the Philippines, national artists and other Filipinos deemed honorable are also buried here. The Vietnam War Memorial and Korean War Memorial are located in the Libingan ng mga Bayani. The Manila American Cemetery and Memorial is on a prominent plateau in the limits of Fort Bonifacio. It contains the largest number of graves (17,206) of American soldiers who fought in World War II. Most of the soldiers buried at the American Cemetery lost their lives in operations in New Guinea and the Philippines.\n\nSt. Luke's Medical Center, Inc. operates a hospital at the Bonifacio Global City.\n\nBGC has several major educational institutions, mostly located at the University Parkway district. The University of the Philippines System (through the constituent units of UP Diliman and UP Open University) and De La Salle University are two most prominent universities which offer graduate programs for professionals working in the district. Other educational institutions in the area include the Leaders International Christian School of Manila, British School Manila, International School Manila, Manila Japanese School, Korean International School Philippines, Everest Academy Manila, STI College, and MGC-New Life Christian Academy - Global City, Treston International College.\n\nBonifacio Transport Corporation maintains bus routes (BGC Bus) serving the business district, as well as Jeepneys and UV Express, with a terminal located at the Market! Market!\n\nThe Bonfacio Global City is also located near the Buendia MRT station, and will serve the future Metro Manila Subway.\n\nThe city governments of Makati and Taguig have recently fought over the jurisdiction of Fort Bonifacio because of the area's growth potential. A portion of the base, including the Libingan ng mga Bayani and the American Cemetery, lies within Taguig, while the northern portion where the Global City development is centered was considered part of Makati. A 2003 ruling by a judge in the Pasig Regional Trial Court upheld the jurisdiction of Taguig over the entirety of Fort Bonifacio, including the Bonifacio Global City and Pinagsama.\n\nThe Supreme Court on June 27, 2008 per Leonardo Quisumbing, dismissed the suit of the Makati, seeking to nullify Special Patents 3595 and 3596 signed by Fidel Ramos conveying to the Bases Conversion and Development Authority public land in Fort Bonifacio, Taguig City. Due to a pending civil case filed by the Taguig City government asking the court to define its territorial boundaries, Makati cannot halt Taguig from collecting taxes on land located in Fort Bonifacio because it does not have any other sufficient source of sufficient income.\n\nThe municipality of Pateros, the only municipality in Metro Manila and located near Fort Bonifacio, claims that its original land area was not its present land area of 2.10 km but 1,040 hectares (10.4 km) including Fort Bonifacio, particularly Barangays Comembo, Pembo, East Rembo, West Rembo, Cembo, South Cembo and Pitogo which are now part of Makati City and Bonifacio Global City, Aranai, Ususan and Palar, Pinagsama which was made part of Taguig, based on documents and official maps obtained from some libraries and offices including USA Library of Congress and USA Archives. (\"Susi ng Pateros Newsletter\", 2000)\n\nPateros' decrease in territory was accounted to a cadastral mapping in Metro Manila conducted in 1978. The late Pateros Mayor Nestor Ponce challenged the map through an objection letter dated June 23, 1978. In January 1986, former President Ferdinand Marcos issued Proclamation No. 2475 which stated that Fort Bonifacio is in Makati and it's open for disposition. Because of that, a boundary dispute arose which moved Pateros to request a dialogue about that with then Municipal Council of Makati in 1990. Pateros also filed a complaint against Taguig at the Makati RTC in 1996 but the trial court dismissed the case for lack of jurisdiction. The case was moved to the Court of Appeals in 2003, but was denied. The same case was moved to the Supreme Court in 2009, and it was denied again.\n\nThe Supreme Court, on June 16, 2009, per Antonio Eduardo B. Nachura denied Pateros’ petition against Taguig but ruled out that the boundary dispute should be settled amicably by their respective legislative bodies based on Section 118(d) of the Local Government Code. Pursuant to the decision, Pateros invited Taguig to a council-to-council dialogue on October 8, 2009. Four meetings were held and at the fourth dialogue on November 23, 2009, a joint resolution was made stating that Taguig is requesting a tripartite conference between Pateros, Taguig and Makati.\n\nOn August 5, 2013, after just a year and a half, the 20-year-long battle was decided in a 37-page decision that was written by Justice Marlene Gonzales-Sison of the Court of Appeals. It says that jurisdiction over Fort Bonifacio has reverted to Makati from Taguig. The Court upheld the constitutionality of Presidential Proclamations 2475 and 518, both of which confirmed that portions of the aforementioned military camps are under the jurisdiction of Makati. The decision also cited the fact that voters from the barangays that are subject of the dispute between Makati and Taguig have long been registered as voters of Makati, thus bolstering the former's jurisdiction over Fort Bonifacio. However, Taguig Mayor Lani Cayetano maintained that this decision was not yet final and executory, and asked Justice Gonzales-Sison to recuse from the case as it was discovered that her family has close ties with the Binays of Makati.\n\nOn August 22, 2013, the Taguig city government filed a Motion for Reconsideration before the Court of Appeals's Sixth Division affirming its claim on Fort Bonifacio. With the filing of the said Motion for Reconsideration, Taguig's jurisdiction forces itself over Fort Bonifacio. According to Taguig's legal department, jurisprudence and the rules of procedure in the country's justice system all say that the filing of a motion for reconsideration suspends the execution of a decision and puts it in limbo.\n\nOn August 1, 2016, in a 27-page decision by the Second Division of the Supreme Court, the decision sought Makati government found guilty of direct contempt for abusing the legal processes over the jurisdiction of BGC.\n\nOn October 3, 2017, the Court of Appeals upheld its final decision in favor of the city government of Taguig and not Makati. The SC also sought Makati guilty of forum shopping after simultaneously appealing the Pasig RTC ruling and filing a petition before the CA, both seeking the same relief.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20267944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20267944", "title": "Boys in the Pits", "text": "Boys in the Pits\n\nBoys in the Pits: Child Labour in Coal Mines is a 2000 book by Robert McIntosh, published by McGill-Queen's University Press. The book is about child labour in Canada in the 19th and early 20th centuries, with special reference to the history of boys, aged 8 to 15, who worked in coal mines. These boys worked underground, leading horses along subterranean roads, manipulating ventilation doors, helping miners cut and lift tons of coal, and filling wagons with freshly mined coal.\nRobert McIntosh is an employee at the National Archives of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "29811584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29811584", "title": "Brian Halligan", "text": "Brian Halligan\n\nBrian Halligan is an American executive and author. He is CEO and co-founder of HubSpot, an inbound marketing and sales software company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and is also a senior lecturer at MIT. Halligan uses the term \"inbound marketing\" to describe the type of marketing he advocates.\n\nHe has co-authored two books on marketing: \"Inbound Marketing: Get Found Using Google, Social Media, and Blogs\" with HubSpot co-founder Dharmesh Shah and \"Marketing Lessons from the Grateful Dead: What Every Business Can Learn from the Most Iconic Band in History\" with David Meerman Scott.\n\nHalligan was born in Westwood, Massachusetts, and grew up and attended public schools in Westwood, Massachusetts. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Vermont and an MBA from MIT Sloan School of Management in 2005.\n\nHis career began at Parametric Technology Corporation in several roles leading up to senior vice president of the Pacific Rim. Wanting to work in a smaller company, he joined Groove Networks as vice president of sales, where he worked from 2000 to 2004 before it was acquired by Microsoft and rebranded as Microsoft SharePoint Workspace.\n\nAfter a period as a venture partner at Longworth Ventures he co-founded HubSpot in June 2006. In HubSpot's 2016 Year In Review, the company reported $271 million in total revenue and 1,597 employees with headquarters in Cambridge, MA and offices in Dublin, Ireland (EMEA HQ); Berlin; Singapore; Sydney, Australia; Tokyo, Japan; and Portsmouth, NH. He credits the company's success, in part, to innovations like the \"Alpha, Beta, Version One\" policy, in which employees begin proving their ideas might profit the company \"nights and weekends\" (the alpha phase) before receiving additional resources (the beta and version one phases).\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, Halligan also served on the board of directors of Fleetmatics, a provider of fleet management solutions delivered as software-as-a-service, leading up to their acquisition by Verizon for $2.4 billion.\n\nHalligan's first book, \"Inbound Marketing,\" was co-authored with HubSpot co-founder Dharmesh Shah. The thesis of the book is that because people now block marketing that interrupts them, such as advertisements and spam, companies need to instead provide information that is useful to prospects, who will then self-identify. Reviewing the book, Meryl Evans said that it contains \"elementary stuff...\" but it \"does a good job for those who don’t have a clue about how to use social media for business.\" It was also reviewed in \"The Boston Globe\". As of July 2011, the book was in its seventh printing, had sold 40,000 copies, and had been translated into nine languages.\nThe book was revised and updated in 2014 in a second edition.\nHis second book, \"Marketing Lessons,\" was co-authored with David Meerman Scott. It uses the marketing activities of the rock band The Grateful Dead as an example of this. Scott Kirsner, reviewing this book in \"The Boston Globe\", mentions that the authors say that they were inspired, in part, by an article in The Atlantic by Joshua Green. In 2017, Halligan purchased the \"Wolf\" guitar once owned by Garcia for $1.9M at a charity auction. An anonymous donor made an additional donation of $1.6M and so the total benefit the Southern Poverty Law Center was $3.5M.\n\nHalligan speaks on marketing and business topics, including at TEDx. He was an entrepreneur in residence at MIT and is a senior lecturer, teaching \"Designing, Developing, and Launching Successful Products in an Entrepreneurial Environment\". He previously taught \"Entrepreneurial Product Development and Marketing\" with Elaine Chen. He is also an occasional lecturer at Sloan on the science of selling and marketing.\n\nIn his book \"\", which is sharply critical of HubSpot's management and culture, former HubSpot employee Daniel Lyons accused Halligan of age discrimination.\n\nMaterials obtained under the Freedom of Information Act showed that certain Hubspot executives working under Halligan considered the book \"a financial threat to HubSpot, its share price, and the company’s future potential.\" The FBI report discusses \"tactics such as email hacking and extortion\" in the attempt to prevent the book from being published.\n\nHalligan was forced to pay financial penalties by the HubSpot board of directors because he failed to promptly alert the board after he discovered that staff members at HubSpot behaved inappropriately. \"There was definitely some fishiness. But I didn’t report it. That was my bad,\" Halligan said about the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843330", "title": "Cheong Fatt Tze", "text": "Cheong Fatt Tze\n\nCheong Fatt Tze or Tjong Tjen Hsoen (; 1840 – 1916) was a Chinese businessman and politician. He was a powerful Nanyang industrialist and a first-class Mandarin in the Manchu government; he was made Consul-General in Singapore and economic advisor to the Empress Dowager. \n\nHe was born in 1840 in Dabu, Guangdong Province in South China. \nAs he came from a poor Hakka family, he started working at an early age as a cowherd back in his village. In 1856, civil war ravaged much of China, and in that same year another war had broken out between the Emperor of China and the English, known as the Second Opium War (1856–1862). The people had experienced hardship and suffering during the war. As a result, Cheong Fatt Tze migrated to South-East Asia together with other coastal Chinese families to seek their fortune.\n\nHe started as a water-carrier and then became a shopkeeper in Jakarta, Indonesia. \nAfter his marriage, he established a trading company with the help of his father-in-law. Gradually, he began to accumulate his wealth through hard work and perseverance. In 1877, he expanded his business from Jakarta to Medan. His business was based on agricultural products such as rubber, coffee and tea but he branched out to the financial sector by acquiring a bank. This move made him a wealthy man.\n\nIn 1886, he expanded again to Penang, Malaysia. As his business grew, he owned three ships which plied between Penang and Medan. In the course of his work, he occasionally resided in Penang and owned a mansion in Leith Street, which stands to this day as protected heritage building.\n\nIn 1890, in recognition of his hard work and contribution, he was appointed the Chinese Consul, based in Penang. This office was shifted to Singapore when that city became established as a well-known trading port in South-East Asia. As the Chinese Consul, he worked tirelessly for the interests of overseas Chinese residents through diplomatic channels with the British authorities.\n\nIn 1899, he was summoned to China twice by the Emperor of China and instructed to present a national development plan, which was well received by the government of the Qing dynasty. As a result, he was promoted to be the Minister for agriculture, industries, roads and mines for the provinces of Fujian and Guangdong. Later he was instructed to conduct a study of trade and education in Penang and Singapore. Subsequently, the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce was established. In 1904, he established the first Chinese school in Southeast Asia, the Chung Hwa Confucian School in Penang.\n\nIn 1912, the Kuomintang overthrew the Qing and established a republican government. Cheong was appointed as a member of the Legislative Assembly so that he could be actively involved with politics. He was also appointed as the Chairman of the Chinese national Chamber of Commerce, which was well received by all parties.\n\nIn 1915, he was sent to the United States to study all aspects of industrialization of that nation. During his journey, when he stopped over in Hong Kong, he was awarded a Ph.D. in Law.\n\nCheong Fatt Tze died in Indonesia in 1916. His body was sent back to China to be buried. On its final journey through Penang, Singapore and Hong Kong, the overseas Chinese were greatly saddened by the loss of this great personality. The Chinese government sent a high-ranking official to his funeral and ordered the National Archives to record his life in historical documents so that his contributions would always be remembered. Both the British and the Dutch authorities ordered flags to be flown at half mast to honour the man who was known as \"the Rockefeller of the East\". He had eight wives and owned many residences throughout his trading empire (mostly Southeast Asia) but made Penang his base, where he raised his six sons.\n\nIn 1894, Chung Keng Quee hosted in his own gardens, in the name of Vice Consul Chang, Pi Shih (Cheong Fatt Tze), a dinner to welcome Admiral Ting (see Battle of Yalu River (1894) and Battle of Weihaiwei) and the Chinese Imperial Fleet of warships that he commanded.\n\nCheong Fatt Tze first introduced grape vineyards in China's Shandong province, and later brought in Austrian wine-producing experts to improve the vineyard in Yantai, Shandong.\nCheong Fatt Tze also gave shelter to Sun Yat Sen and Sun Yat Sen 's fourth wife in Penang, Cheong Fatt Tze also helped Sun Yat Sen with Money to promote a Chinese Nationalist movement in China after 1911.\n\nA street in George Town, Penang, which was formerly named Hong Kong Street, was renamed after him, Jalan Cheong Fatt Tze. His blue mansion, Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion, is a heritage building, located at Leith Street in George Town. It is open for guided tours, and also offers accommodation and has an on-site restaurant. He left another mansion in his birthplace, Dabu, Guangdong Province, China.\n\n"}
{"id": "9328589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9328589", "title": "Cryogenic grinding", "text": "Cryogenic grinding\n\nCyrogenic grinding, also known as freezer milling, freezer grinding, and cryomilling, is the act of cooling or chilling a material and then reducing it into a small particle size. For example, thermoplastics are difficult to grind to small particle sizes at ambient temperatures because they soften, adhere in lumpy masses and clog screens. When chilled by dry ice, liquid carbon dioxide or liquid nitrogen, the thermoplastics can be finely ground to powders suitable for electrostatic spraying and other powder processes. Cryogenic grinding of plant and animal tissue is a technique used by microbiologists. Samples that require extraction of nucleic acids must be kept at −80 °C or lower during the entire extraction process. For samples that are soft or flexible at room temperature, cryogenic grinding may be the only viable technique for processing samples. A number of recent studies report on the processing and behavior of nanostructured materials via cryomilling.\n\nFreezer milling is a type of cryogenic milling that uses a solenoid to mill samples. The solenoid moves the grinding media back and forth inside the vial, grinding the sample down to analytical fineness. This type of milling is especially useful in milling temperature sensitive samples, as samples are milled at liquid nitrogen temperatures. The idea behind using a solenoid is that the only \"moving part\" in the system is the grinding media inside the vial. The reason for this is that at liquid nitrogen temperatures (–196°C) any moving part will come under huge stress leading to potentially poor reliability. Cryogenic milling using a solenoid has been used for over 50 years and has been proved to be a very reliable method of processing temperature sensitive samples in the laboratory.\n\nCryomilling is a variation of mechanical milling, in which metallic powders or other samples (e.g. temperature sensitive samples and samples with volatile components) are milled in a cryogen (usually liquid nitrogen or liquid argon) slurry or at a cryogenics temperature under processing parameters, so a nanostructured microstructure is attained. Cryomilling takes advantage of both the cryogenic temperatures and conventional mechanical milling. The extremely low milling temperature suppresses recovery and recrystallization and leads to finer grain structures and more rapid grain refinement. The embrittlement of the sample makes even elastic and soft samples grindable. Tolerances less than 5 µm can be achieved. The ground material can be analyzed by a laboratory analyzer.\n\nCryogenic grinding (or \"cryogrinding\") is a method of cell disruption employed by molecular life scientists to obtain broken cell material with favorable properties for protein extraction and affinity capture. Once ground, the fine powder consisting of broken cells (or \"grindate\") can be stored for long periods at –80°C without obvious changes to biochemical properties – making it a very convenient source material in e.g. proteomic studies including affinity capture / mass spectrometry.\n"}
{"id": "20192607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20192607", "title": "David Combe", "text": "David Combe\n\nDavid Combe (born 26 April 1943) was National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party (ALP), a political consultant and lobbyist, an Australian Trade Commissioner, a Senior Vice-President International of Southcorp Wines, and a consultant to the Australian wine industry.\n\nHarvey David Mathew Combe was born in 1943 in Adelaide, South Australia, and was educated at Prince Alfred College and the University of Adelaide, where he earned a BA.. He became interested in politics at university and joined the ALP, partly through his friendship with Don Dunstan. (He has been Patron of the Don Dunstan Foundation since 2004.)\n\nCombe was National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party (1973–1981), a political consultant and lobbyist (1981–1985), and an Australian senior trade commissioner (1985–1991), and has held senior executive and board positions within the Australian wine industry (1991–2008).\n\nIn 1973 Combe became the youngest-ever National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party after the election of the first Labor government for 23 years. In November 1975, he was allegedly co-instigator, with Gough Whitlam and Bill Hartley, of an unsuccessful approach to Saddam Hussein's Iraq for a gift of 500,000 U.S. dollars to help in funding Labor's 1975 election campaign. Labor lost the election. In an article published in \"The Bulletin\" in January 1982 Combe propagated the notion that Labor's defeat was partly due to the influence of the CIA.\n\nCombe remained National Secretary until July 1981, when he resigned to establish a lobbying business, David Combe and Associates Pty Ltd. It reportedly \"received a great fillip in March 1983, when the Labor Party was re-elected to office. Business perceived Combe as the most influential lobbyist then working in Canberra.\"\n\nIn 1983 Combe was accused of compromising Australia's national security in dealings with a Soviet diplomat, Valery Ivanov. \n\nThe Combe-Ivanov affair developed out of a trip Combe and his wife made to the USSR in 1982, in the course of preparations for which they met and developed a relationship with Valery Ivanov, then the First Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Canberra. Soon after the formation of the Hawke government ASIO raised concerns that Combe, closely aligned to the ALP, might be being compromised by a Soviet citizen with KGB links. Ivanov was expelled from Australia in 1983 by Prime Minister Bob Hawke.\n\nThe highly publicised events were investigated by the Hope Royal Commission on Australia's security and intelligence agencies of 1983–1984. The commission found that Combe had indeed been targeted by the Soviets, but there was no proof of intelligence breaches or of any threat to national security. \n\nCombe was Australia's senior trade commissioner in Western Canada from 1985 to 1989, and in Hong Kong from 1990 to 1991.\n\nCombe was Senior Vice-President International and ran the European operations of Penfolds and Southcorp Wines during the rise in popularity of Australian wines in the 1990s. He is credited with developing significant export business for Southcorp Wines, whose exports increased in value from 40 million Australian dollars in August 1991 to 300 million dollars in June 2000. In 2000 Combe was named Australia's Top Export Salesman by \"Overseas Trading\" magazine and was included in the list of \"Twenty Five Most Influential Australians in Asia\" published by \"Business Asia\" magazine. \n\nFrom March 2001 to November 2003 Combe was a non-executive director for the Western Australian wine producer Evans and Tate Limited. \n\nIn 2004, in a speech at Bordeaux, he lambasted the wine-purchasing policies of UK supermarkets, which, he said, \"if committed in Australia, would represent major breaches of the trade practices laws\". \n\nIn June 2004 he was appointed Chairman of Simon Gilbert Wines, He retired as a director and chairman in February 2007, \"to take up another position within the wine industry\".\n\nIn 1983, Keith Looby painted Combe's portrait. The portrait was an unsuccessful entry in the Archibald Prize of 1983, and conspiracy theories on this matter abound. David Combe said in 1998 that there was 'circumstantially a good case to believe that some trustees were heavied by the Party' into rejecting the work. In 1998, Combe donated his portrait to the collection of the National Portrait Gallery in Canberra, \"through the Australian Government's Cultural Gifts Program\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33329447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33329447", "title": "Denis Kessler", "text": "Denis Kessler\n\nDenis Kessler (born 25 March 1952 in Mulhouse) is a French businessman. He has served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of SCOR SE since 2002. Prior to this, he served as Vice-Chairman of MEDEF and CEO of AXA.\n\nHe graduated from HEC Paris, and received a PhD in Economics from the University of Paris. \n\nHe is a Board member of BNP Paribas, Bolloré, Dassault Aviation, Invesco, and Fonds stratégique d'investissement. He is member of the Supervisory Board of Yam Invest N.V.. He served as the President of Le Siècle from 2007 to 2010. \n\nHe has criticized the Keynesian reaction to the 2008 financial crisis, and he has suggested the end of the Euro currency is a real possibility.\n"}
{"id": "3388233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3388233", "title": "Discipline Global Mobile", "text": "Discipline Global Mobile\n\nDiscipline Global Mobile (DGM, or Discipline GM) is an independent record label founded in 1992 by Robert Fripp (best known as guitarist and main composer for the band King Crimson) and producer/online content developer David Singleton. DGM has released solo music by Fripp as well as work by various affiliated musicians and bands including King Crimson, The Vicar, the California Guitar Trio and others. The label has offices in Salisbury, England, and Los Angeles, California;\n\nDGM has aimed to be \"a model of ethical business in an industry founded on exploitation, oiled by deceit, riven with theft and fueled by greed,\" according to Fripp. Its policy is that its artists retain all copyrights; consequently, even DGM's corporate logo is owned by its designer. The label was an early adopter of the digital download system. DGM's aims have been hailed as \"exemplary\", and the label has been credited with having expanded \"the possibilities of experimental music\" and having improved the environment for King Crimson.\n\nThe DGM label name is derived from the title of a 1981 King Crimson album (\"Discipline\") and from the name of Singleton’s previous recording business (The Mobile). The label logo also partly reflects the artwork for the \"Discipline\" album (featuring a new but similar knotwork commissioned from the artist Steve Ball).\n\nHaving been a professional musician since the mid-'60s (and the guitarist for King Crimson since 1969), by the late 1980s Robert Fripp found himself in conflict with his longtime record label E.G. Records and management company (E.G. Management) over royalties allegedly owed by E.G. to himself and to other band members. During this period, Fripp met and began working with producer and online developer David Singleton, initially on a Guitar Craft tour in 1990 and subsequently on the production of two albums - the League of Crafty Guitarists' \"Show of Hands\" and the eponymous album for the Fripp-and-Toyah-fronted group Sunday All Over the World. Fripp and Singleton's production partnership was sealed by work on two King Crimson boxed sets (1991's \"Frame by Frame\" and 1992's \"The Great Deceiver\") and continues to the present day under the name of TonProb.\n\nAfter seven years, Fripp and E.G. reached a settlement but the experience left Fripp determined to take control of his own work and financial affairs wherever possible. As part of this aim, he founded Discipline Global Mobile (DGM) as an independent music label in 1992, as a fifty-fifty partnership with Singleton.\nDGM's mission statement consists of five \"DGM business aims\", as follows:\nThese aims were called \"exemplary\" by Bill Martin, who wrote that \"Fripp has done something very important for the possibilities of experimental music\" in creating DGM, and that DGM \"has played a major role in creating favorable conditions for\" King Crimson.\n\nSince at least the early 1960s, the recording industry has required artists to sign over copyrights and moral rights to their cover art, music, and lyrics. DGM rejects this practice, and since its 1992 founding has maintained its policy that its artists retain the copyrights and the moral rights to their works, be those works musical or visual art. Fripp wrote, \n\n\"The phonographic copyright in these performances is operated by Discipline Global Mobile on behalf of the artists, with whom it resides, contrary to common practice in the record industry. Discipline accepts no reason for artists to assign the copyright interests in their work to either record company or management by virtue of a 'common practice' which was always questionable, often improper, and is now indefensible.\"\n\nThis extends even to DGM's knotwork corporate logo, the copyright of which is owned not by the company, but by its designer, Steve Ball.\n\nDGM does not require that its artists sign written contracts. Former Led Zeppelin bassist John Paul Jones said, \"It's pure trust,\" and noted that \"there are dangers on both sides. I could have a successful album and just sign with a major, or they could decide not to pay me.\" Jones explained that he was accustomed to \"working in situations that do rely on trust and integrity, those old-fashioned words\" because Led Zeppelin had no contract with its manager. Another DGM band, alternative rock group The Rosenbergs, opted to work with the label following conflicts with their previous label Universal Records, which had even demanded control of the band's domain name: in contrast, DGM had encouraged them to retain control of their own master recordings and provided them with funds for touring and promoting their album.\n\nRoyalties are paid above the prevailing rate, as announced at DGM's launch. In return, DGM artists are responsible for promoting their albums through concert tours and interviews.\n\nDiscipline Global Mobile specializes in art rock, progressive rock, jazz, and assorted experimental and crossover music (the label has also released recordings of Renaissance lute music and mainstream alternative rock). DGM has released more than a hundred King Crimson recordings, including remastered albums with bonus tracks and DVDs with archival footage. In addition to King Crimson, DGM's current active roster includes assorted Robert Fripp projects and The Vicar (a songwriter project). The label has previously released music by various Fripp-affiliated ensembles; The League of Crafty Guitarists, Les Gauchos Allemagnes, the California Guitar Trio and the Robert Fripp String Quartet (all of which stem from or are connected with Fripp's Guitar Craft courses) \n\n\n\nAccording to a 1998 profile in \"Billboard\" magazine, Discipline Global Mobile had seven staff members in Salisbury, England, and three in Los Angeles, California. DGM \"is actually housed in a dull pebbledash building in a village near Salisbury, south-west England\".\n\nIts label manager reported that the country with the largest market was Japan, where mail-orders accounted for only 10% of sales, but 50% of profits. In 1998, DGM was distributed in Japan by Pony Canyon; in the United Kingdom by Pinnacle; and in the United States by Rykodisc. Sound samples have been offered in addition to DGM's mail-order services. Free downloads from DGM have strengthened the relations between artists and fans.\n\nIn 2012, DGM's site had the following introduction: \"The aim of DGM is to connect music, musician and audience in a way that supports the power of music, the integrity of the musician and the needs of the audience. DGM Live offers music for download with photographs, diary archives and audience commentary for browsing\". DGM's successful transition to an age of digital distribution was called \"unique\" among music labels in 2009; this success was credited to its provision of legal, high-quality recordings of concerts, which effectively reverse-engineered the distribution-networks for unlicensed recordings (\"bootlegs\") of concerts.\n\nDGM publishes on-line diaries by Robert Fripp, David Singleton and The Vicar. A moderated forum allows fans to ask questions or to leave comments. Together, the diaries and the fan forum display delayed dialogs in which the artists and fans discuss diary-entries and forum-postings. Fripp's public writing of his diary has challenged his readers to become more active listeners and intelligent participants in performances of music.\n\nFripp's diaries were internationally discussed following his publication of documents from a dispute with Grooveshark, an on-line distributor of music. Fripp and Singleton complained that Grooveshark had been continuing to distribute his music, even after repeated takedown notices and other complaints. Their correspondence with Grooveshark was published by \"Digital Music News\" and in his DGM diary. Fripp's exchange with Grooveshark was included in a suit against Grooveshark by Universal Music Group, which was filed in November 2011.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59038812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59038812", "title": "FC Cincinnati", "text": "FC Cincinnati\n\nFC Cincinnati is a soccer club based in Cincinnati, Ohio, that will begin play in Major League Soccer (MLS) in 2019. The team will succeed the lower-division team of the same name and was announced on May 29, 2018, when MLS awarded an expansion franchise to Cincinnati. The club's ownership group is led by Carl H. Lindner III.\n\nThe owners of the USL club began negotiations with Major League Soccer over a potential expansion franchise in early 2016, and Cincinnati was announced as one of ten cities that had expressed interest in the slots for teams 25 to 28. MLS Commissioner Don Garber visited Cincinnati in December 2016 to tour Nippert Stadium and meet with city and club officials, complimenting the city and its fans. FC Cincinnati formally submitted its expansion bid in January 2017, including a shortlist of potential stadium locations.\n\nOn May 29, 2018, Major League Soccer announced that Cincinnati would join the league in 2019 as an expansion team under the FC Cincinnati brand. A 21,000-seat stadium in the West End is scheduled to open in 2021.\n\nFC Cincinnati signed their first two MLS players, Fanendo Adi and Fatai Alashe, in July 2018. Adi was the team's first designated player. Both players were loaned to the FC Cincinnati USL team for the remainder of the 2018 season.\n\nFC Cincinnati will select up to five players from certain MLS teams in the expansion draft, scheduled to take place on December 11, 2018.\n\nFC Cincinnati will play at Nippert Stadium while their new West End Stadium is being built. The new stadium is expected to open in 2021.\n\nCincinnati has a potential in-state rival in Columbus Crew. Cincinnati's USL team defeated the Crew in a 2017 U.S. Open Cup match known as \"Hell Is Real\" after a billboard on Interstate 71, the highway between Columbus and Cincinnati.\n\nFormer Cincinnati Bengals executive Jeff Berding is the president and general manager. The CEO and majority owner of the team is Carl Lindner III, CEO of American Financial Group, with Scott Farmer also a leading owner.\n"}
{"id": "47393379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47393379", "title": "Fashion Revolution", "text": "Fashion Revolution\n\nFashion Revolution is a not-for-profit global movement with teams in over 100 countries around the world. Fashion Revolution campaigns for systemic reform of the fashion industry with a focus on the need for greater transparency in the fashion supply chain. Fashion Revolution has designated the anniversary of the Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh as Fashion Revolution Day. In 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 millions of people around the world called on brands to answer the question Who Made My Clothes? The hashtag #whomademyclothes became the no.1 global trend on Twitter.\n\nFashion Revolution was created in 2013 in response to the Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh by Carry Somers and Orsola de Castro. Somers and De Castro had worked as fashion designers in the UK for over two decades and saw that the factory collapse could act as a catalyst for change in the industry.\n\nFashion Revolution Day takes place annually on 24 April, the anniversary of the 2013 Rana Plaza building collapse when 1133 died and over 2500 were injured. In 2016, it expanded into Fashion Revolution Week.\n\nThe first Fashion Revolution Day took place on 24 April 2014. Fashion Revolution's hashtag #insideout was the no. 1 global trend on Twitter.\n\nThe second Fashion Revolution Day took place on 24 April 2015. The global reach from online news and broadcast media was 16.5 billion and 63 million people from across 76 countries made the hashtag #WhoMadeMyClothes the number one trend on Twitter The YouTube video The 2 Euro T-Shirt - A Social Experiment had over 6.5 million views and won a Cannes Lions award\n\nIn its third year, Fashion Revolution activities took place over a week, from 18–24 April 2016. This first Fashion Revolution Week began with Fashion Question Time at the UK Houses of Parliament. and the launch of the first edition of the Fashion Transparency Index which scored 40 of the biggest global fashion companies on the information they disclose to stakeholders and the public about social and environmental issues across their supply chains.\n\nIn 2016's Fashion Revolution Week, events took place in over 90 countries around the world. Over 70,000 people around the world asked brands #whomademyclothes with 156 million impressions of the hashtag on social media. G-Star Raw, American Apparel, Fat Face, Boden, Massimo Dutti, Zara and Warehouse were among more than 1200 fashion brands and retailers that responded with photographs of their workers saying #imadeyourclothes. Fashion Revolution achieved online media reach in April 2016 of 22 billion.\n\nOn 26 October 2016, Fashion Revolution's €2 video, A Social Experiment was ranked no. 7 in the top global PR campaigns of the year at the Global Sabre Awards ceremony. The video has received over 7.5 million views.\n\nIn its fourth year, Fashion Revolution Week took place from 24–30 April 2017. On Fashion Revolution Day, the second edition of the Fashion Transparency Index was launched, a review of 100 of the biggest global fashion brands and retailers ranked according to how much they disclose about their social and environmental policies, practices and impact. 66,000 people attended around 1000 Fashion Revolution events and there were 533 million impressions of social media posts using one of Fashion Revolution's hashtags during April and over 2000 brands and producer groups responded, answering #imadeyourclothes.\n\nIn its fifth year, Fashion Revolution Week will take place from 23–29 April 2018.\n\nDuring Fashion Revolution Week, hundreds of events take place around the world (and are posted online here). Fashion Revolution has also organised high level roundtable events on ethics, sustainability and transparency in the fashion industry.\n\n12 May 2014: Roundtable Debate in UK House of Lords.\n\n26 February 2015: Fashion Question Time in the UK House of Commons with Mary Creagh MP, Lily Cole, Jenny Holdcroft, policy director of IndustriALL Global Union Catarina Midby, Global Head of Sustainable Communications, H&M Dilys Williams, Head, Centre for Sustainable Fashion, and Anas Sarwar.\n\n29 June 2015: Ethical Fashion 2020: a New Vision for Transparency in UK House of Lords.\n\n2 December 2015: EU roundtable and launch of White Paper on transparency 'It's Time for a Fashion Revolution' in Brussels.\n\n18 April 2016: Fashion Question Time at the Houses of Parliament.\n\nDuring Fashion Revolution Week 2017, 1000 events took place around the country including Fashion Question Time at the Houses of Parliament on 24 April and the launch of Open Studios, a week-long series of events across London, New York, Athens, Prato in Italy, LA and Jakarta.\n\nFashion Revolution publishes online a variety of campaign assets, posters, brand guidelines, postcard and letter writing templates, and action kits (for citizens, brands, wholesalers, retailers, distributors, farmers, producers and factories). In addition, it has published the following:\n\n\"How to be a Fashion Revolutionary\"(2015) which is 'full of inspiration and ideas about how you can use your voice and your power to transform the fashion industry as we know it'. This is available in English, Spanish and Portuguese and was published as part of a touring Fashion Revolution exhibition and film screenings at UK universities.\n\n\"It's Time for a Fashion Revolution\" (2015) sets out the need for more transparency across the fashion industry, from seed to waste. This is available in English and Spanish.\n\n\"Fashion Transparency Index\" (2016 & 2017) ranks the biggest global fashion companies (40 in 2016, 100 in 2017) according to their level of transparency based on a questionnaire and publicly available information about supply chain issues. The 2016 Index - published in collaboration with Ethical Consumer - is available in English and Spanish, and the 2017 Index is available in English, Spanish and Portuguese.\n\n\"Money, Fashion, Power\" (2017) is a zine which comprising 72-pages of poetry, illustration, photography, graphic design and editorial exploring the hidden stories behind our clothing, what the price we pay for fashion means, and how our purchasing power can make a positive difference. Collectible hard copies could be purchased and a free digital version was published online.\n\n\"Loved Clothes Last\" (2017) is a zine comprising 124 pages of poetry, illustration, photography, infographics, and packed with articles, tips and interviews exploring the issue of waste and mass-consumption in the fashion industry, and hopes to inspire you to buy less, care more, and know how to make the clothes you love last for longer. Collectible hard copies could be purchased and a free digital version was published online.\n\n\"Fashion Revolution Podcast\" series (2017) comprises three 27 minute recordings in which international fashion journalist Tamsin Blanchard speaks to researchers, supply chain experts, garment workers, politicians and activists about the intersection of sustainability, ethics and transparency in the fashion industry.\n\n\"Garment Worker Diaries\" (2017–18) is a project by Microfinance Opportunities in collaboration with Fashion Revolution which, over 12 months, visited the same set of garment workers in Bangladesh, India and Cambodia to 'learn what they could earn and buy, how they spend their time each day, and what their working conditions are like'. Its (interactive) research reports and podcast are written to 'advocate for changes in consumer and corporate behaviours and policy changes that improve the living and working conditions of garment workers everywhere'.\n\nThe #Haulternative campaign, in conjunction with the \"Daily Telegraph\", features fashion vloggers filming themselves doing an alternative fashion haul. Haulers who participated included CutiePieMarzia Noodlerella, Bip Ling, Grav3yardgirl and Shameless Maya with combined views of 2 million on YouTube.\n\nIn 2014, Fashion Revolution published a quiz and an education pack for school, college and university teachers and students. These were freely available online.\n\nIn 2015, a new quiz and separate education worksheets were produced for primary schools (7–11 years), secondary schools (11–16 years), further education colleges (16–18 years) and universities (18+). These were published in English and translated into Spanish, Finnish and other languages by Country Coordination teams.\n\nTo encourage students to 'Be curious, Find Out, Do something' about #whomademyclothes, these worksheets continue to be developed and now include :\n\nIn July 2015, a collection of social media postings showing how teachers and students got involved the Fashion Revolution was published on Pinterest, along with a 'who made my clothes?' film library, and a collection of 'imaginative ways in which the work of artists, activists and others can be used to inspire and engage people in the Fashion Revolution'. These continue to be updated.\n\nIn August 2016, three sessions were organised at the Annual Conference of the Royal Geographical Society (with Institute of British Geographers) conference in London with academic and activist speakers talking to the theme of \"Scholar activism and the Fashion Revolution: ‘who made my clothes?’\" Session one focused on connecting producers and consumers, session two on slow sustainable fashion in practice and session three on engaging publics.\n\nIn June–July 2017, a free 3 week online course called 'Who Made My Clothes' was created in collaboration with the University of Exeter. Run by and featuring members of Fashion Revolution's Global Coordination Team - Ian Cook, Orsola de Castro, Sarah Ditty and Joss Whipple - it encouraged over 8,000 learners worldwide to Be Curious, Find Out and Do Something about the pay and conditions of people working in the global garment industry. The course will run again in June–July 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "8121276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8121276", "title": "Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry", "text": "Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry\n\nThe Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry FH, with its headquarters in Bienne, is the Swiss watch industry's leading trade association.\n\nActing as a private, professional and non-profit oriented association, the FH currently gathers more than 500 members representing more than 90% of all Swiss watch manufacturers (watches, clocks, movements, components, etc.).\n\nOn one hand, the FH provides its members with a large series of services in the fields of legal, economic and commercial issues. On the other hand, it acts as a privileged counterparts for the authorities, the media and the public in general, both in Switzerland and in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5384074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5384074", "title": "Film Streams", "text": "Film Streams\n\nFilm Streams is a nonprofit arts organization in Omaha, Nebraska that oversees two cinemas: the Ruth Sokolof Theater, in North Downtown Omaha, and the historic Dundee Theater, Omaha’s longest surviving neighborhood cinema. It receives funding from corporate and individual donors, members, and the government.\n\nFounded by Rachel Jacobson in 2005, Film Streams' mission is to enhance the cultural environment of the Omaha-Council Bluffs area through the presentation and discussion of film as an art form.\n\nIn July 2007, Film Streams opened the Ruth Sokolof Theater, a new two-screen cinema in downtown Omaha's North Downtown (NoDo) area, within a development anchored by internationally acclaimed music label Saddle Creek Records. In February 2016, Film Streams announced that Susie Buffett's Sherwood Foundation had donated the 92-year-old Dundee Theater to the organization. The organization launched a public capital campaign in April 2017 with the intention of renovating and reopening the cinema by 2018.\n\nThe name \"Film Streams\" is inspired by Omaha (the word means \"above all others on a stream\") and the John Cassavetes film, \"Love Streams.\"\n\nThe Ruth Sokolof Theater has two auditoriums with 35-millimeter platter and reel-to-reel projection capabilities. The larger theater seats 206 and runs first run feature films. The smaller theater seats 96 and shows a selection of classic films, retrospectives, and other films. Film Streams has DVD, Blu-ray, and digital high-definition projection.\n\nRachel Jacobson founded Films Streams by joining with Saddle Creek Records, the indie record label based in Omaha, to build a mini-campus in a deserted downtown Omaha area. The block that is home to Film Streams also houses the Saddle Creek headquarters and Slowdown, a rock club the label operates.\n\nFilm Streams' North Downtown Omaha cinema is named after Ruth Sokolof, née Rosinsky (1925-1982), a well-known educator in Omaha who focused her life on helping children with disabilities. With her husband, Phil, many education-based scholarships are awarded in their name each year to Omaha-area students and educators.\n\nFilm Streams announced plans to renovate and reopen Omaha's longest-running cinema in February 2016. When opened, it will feature two screens: the historic 300-seat main house and a new 25-seat microcinema. The lobby will also house Kitchen Table Central, a second location of a popular farm-to-table restaurant.\n\nFilm Streams offers screenings of first-run films and a selection of retrospectives and classic films; education programs, and community development programs. \nProgramming includes:\n\nFirst held in 2008 at the Holland Performing Arts Center, Film Streams' fundraising galas bring acclaimed filmmakers to Omaha for conversations about their careers and perspectives on the medium.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51859324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51859324", "title": "Fitria Yusuf", "text": "Fitria Yusuf\n\nFitria \"Fifi\" Yusuf (born 9 December 1982) is an Indonesian socialite and fashion model.\n\nYusuf was born in Jakarta, Indonesia on December 9, 1982. In her childhood she moved to Australia and attended St Hilda's Anglican School for Girls in Perth. She graduated from Menlo College in 2001 and holds a bachelor's degree in business administration majoring in Marketing from GS Fame Institute of Business in Jakarta. Fitria’s aptitude of fashion began from her childhood, liked flipping through her mother’s magazines, lingering over the fashion pages and all the models posing in colorful clothes. She had worked as an editor for a number of fashion magazines in Jakarta and a columnist of \"Eve\" magazine before starting her own business, opening a one-stop shopping boutique called Ivy boutique in 2006. She also co-founded Twinkle-Twinkle in 2009, a company producing customized crystal casings for smart phones.\n\nIn 2009, Fitria Yusuf co-authored \"Little Pink Book: Jakarta Style & Shopping Guide\" with her friend Alexandra Dewi. The book is like a shopping directory for fashion lovers, where she shared her experience combining style and shopping, providing practical information about international and local brand. it contains eight chapters: lingerie, apparel, bags, shoes, jewelry, watches, sunglasses and one-stop shopping. In 2011, Fitria co-authored another fashion-themed book called \"Hermes Temptation\". The 400-page book tells the story of a million-dollar resell business of French luxury-bags brand Hermès which became \"a must-have item\" among the high society in Jakarta. The book became a national best-seller and had been printed in Indonesia and in the United States.\n\nIn 2009, Fitria was appointed as a commissioner of PT Mitra International Resources Tbk, a mining services company and worked there until 2011. From 2012 to 2013, she served as the Editor In Chief of Aesthetic Beauty Guide Indonesia and Chief Executive Officer of PT Fifefa International Jakarta since 2011. In 2014, she focused in property and food & beverage business, openng Ozone Hotel & Eatery, in Pantai Indah Kapuk, North Jakarta. She involved in the family business, becoming Vice President Director of PT Citra Marga Nusaphala Persada Tbk. (CMNP) since October 2015. Previously, she served as independent commissioner at the toll road construction management company. She is currently involved in a CSR program conducted CMNP and enforcement efforts under the expressway, as well as the provision of green open space.\n\nYusuf was a speaker at Ideafest at Jakarta Convention Center (2016), and appeared at Jakarta Fashion Week in 2009.\n\nFitria has been recognized by various media and company as a fashion icon including \"Tatler\" magazine, Senayan City, Kuningan City, Johnny Andrean Salon and \"HighEnd\" magazine.\n"}
{"id": "37500138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37500138", "title": "Franz Humer", "text": "Franz Humer\n\nFranz Bernhard Humer (born 1 July 1946) is a Swiss-Austrian businessman, the chairman of Diageo, and of Roche.\n\nHumer was the chairman of Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche and chairman of Diageo plc, a British multinational alcoholic beverages company, the world's largest producer of spirits and a major producer of beer and wine.\n\nJavier Ferrán will be the next chairman of Diageo, from 1 January 2017, when Humer retires.\n\nHumer was chairman of Reed Elsevier from July 2008 to September 2010, when he was succeeded by Anthony Habgood.\n\nHumer is chairman of the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children, a global nonprofit organization that combats child sexual exploitation, child pornography, and child abduction. Humer is chairman at the INSEAD school of business.\n"}
{"id": "28352336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28352336", "title": "Global Arab Network", "text": "Global Arab Network\n\nGlobal Arab Network (GAN) (in Arabic غلوبال اراب نتورك) is a comprehensive news and information service about the Arab world in English and Arabic, registered and based in London, UK.\n\nFounded in 2006, GAN covers news and information from the Middle East and North Africa concerning national and international affairs, relations between the Arab countries and the rest of the world, economy and business, foreign policy, science and technology, culture and society, entertainment and lifestyle. \".\n\nGlobal Arab Network is one of the Strategic Partners of The Middle East Association\n\n"}
{"id": "38090662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38090662", "title": "Globe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar", "text": "Globe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar\n\nGlobe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar (GJSP) is one of the largest Bangladeshi conglomerates. The industries under this conglomerate include construction, engineering, electrical cables, information technology, printing, media etc. It was founded in 1979 by Mohammad Shahidullah Khan eldest brother of current owner and chairman Mohammad Atikullah Khan. \n\nSmall, medium and large family owned businesses dominate over Bangladesh's $100 billion ($288 billion in PPP GDP) economy, which has been growing at over 5 percent a year since 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3970168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3970168", "title": "Gross enrolment ratio", "text": "Gross enrolment ratio\n\nGross Enrollment Ratio (GER) or Gross Enrollment Index (GEI) is a statistical measure used in the education sector, and formerly by the UN in its Education Index, to determine the number of students enrolled in school at several different grade levels (like elementary, middle school and high school), and use it to show the ratio of the number of students who live in that country to those who qualify for the particular grade level. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization(UNESCO), describes ‘Gross Enrolment Ratio’ as the total enrolment within a country ‘in a specific level of education, regardless of age, expressed as a percentage of the population in the official age group corresponding to this level of education.’\n\nThe GER can be over 100% as it includes students who may be older or younger than the official age group. For instance, the GER includes students who are repeating a grade, those who enrolled late and are older than their classmates, or those who have advanced quickly and are younger than their classmates. This allows the total enrollment to exceed the population that corresponds to that level of education.\n\nA combined gross enrolment ratio (CGER), incorporating all three levels of education, was used to calculate the Human Development Index (HDI), an annual gauge of well-being for UN member states, from 1990 to 2009. Amongst other measures used in the calculation, the CGER was given one-third weight in assessing the knowledge component, represented by gross enrolment, while the adult literacy rate was given two-thirds weight.\n\nhttp://www.unesco.org/new/en/education/\nhttp://www.worldbank.org/depweb/english/beyond/global/glossary.html\n"}
{"id": "18379419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18379419", "title": "Gérald Genta", "text": "Gérald Genta\n\nCharles Gérald Genta (1931-2011) was a Swiss jewellery designer, noted for his eponymous line of timepieces as well as his design work with other firms, including IWC, Universal Genève, Patek Philippe and Audemars Piguet, among others. Christie's auction house of New York called Genta's work \"the Fabergé of watches\", while \"The Wall Street Journal\" has called them the \"world's most complicated and pricey watches\".\n\nGenta was born in Geneva to a Swiss mother and father of Piemonte (Northern Italian) descent. At age 20, Genta finished jewelry and goldsmith training in his native Switzerland, earning a Swiss federal diploma.\n\nSubsequently, Genta was recruited by Universal Genève SA, at the time one of the most recognized manufactures in both the U.S. and Europe for its chronograph models. After Universal Genève settled a patent dispute involving the micro-rotor caliber, Genta designed Universal's in the 1950s, as well as the Golden and White Shadows during the mid-1960s. The Shadows contained a micro-rotor, unisonic and accutron movement, the latter two a result of the quartz crisis starting in the late 1960s.\n\nGenta's work with Universal would be a precursor to future collaborations with other brands in Switzerland and throughout Europe, including Omega's \"Constellation\" (1959); Patek Philippe's \"Golden Ellipse\" (1968). Audemars Piguet's \"Royal Oak\" (1970), IWC's \"Ingenieur\" (1976); Patek Philippe's \"Nautilus\" (1976); and Cartier's \"Pasha de Cartier\" (1985)\n\nAfter starting his own brand in 1969, Genta would create the sonneries, among them the Gérald Genta \"Octo Granda Sonnerie Tourbillion\", which contained four gongs and an emulated Westminster Quarters bell ring at each quarter and on the hour, \"the same melody rung out by London's Big Ben\", and priced at $810,200. In 1994, he designed the \"Grande Sonnerie Retro\", the world's most complicated wristwatch, and priced at approximately $2 million. For private requests, Genta hand-designed the movements, dials and cases of his timepieces and employed limited or no external assistance, outsourcing or mechanization during the process; it was not unusual for a single watch to take up to 5 years to complete.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Genta obtained special licensing with The Walt Disney Company and distributed a limited edition of Disney character watches to the public; previously, they had been an unofficial private request by one of Genta's repeat customers. The dials consisted of illustrations of Mickey Mouse, Minnie Mouse, Donald Duck, Scrooge and Goofy, with cases made of 18 carat gold. Designed in Le Brassus, Switzerland, the watches retailed between $3250–$3650 in 1988.\n\nGerald Genta's clients have included professional athletes, business executives, rock musicians, rappers, movie stars, politicians as well as royalty, including Prince Rainier of Monaco, King Hassan II of Morocco, King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia of Spain, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother of England.\n\nAfter his eponymous company was acquired by Bulgari in 1999, Genta resigned and created a new venture called \"Gerald Charles\". As of 2010, Gerald Genta watches were marketed solely under the Bulgari brand. As Bulgari had been acquired by upscale French conglomerate LVMH in 2011, all \"Gerald Genta\" brand watches would in effect be products of the LVMH portfolio.\n\nGenta died in August 2011 at age 80.\n\n"}
{"id": "42562353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42562353", "title": "Hrant Vardanyan", "text": "Hrant Vardanyan\n\nHrant Vardanyan (, 23 January 1949 - 20 April 2014) was an Armenian businessman and the pioneer of domestic Armenian manufacturing, the founder and the president of the leading national corporation Grand Holding and philanthropist. Honored Worker of Economy of the Republic of Armenia (2009)\n\nHrant Vardanyan was born on January 23, 1949 in Yerevan, Armenia in a working-class family. \nFrom 1956 to 1966 he studied at the Kirov high school No. 12 in Yerevan, Armenia. \nFrom 1968 to 1974 he studied at the Yerevan Polytechnic Institute,Faculty of Machine Building and Mechanical, majoring in food-industry engineering. Since 1990 - Candidate of Economics. Non-partisan.\n\nThanks to Hrant Vardanian, the celebration of the International Labor Day has been resumed in the Republic of Armenia as a state holiday since May 1, 2000. 1998-2003 Vardanyan was the President of the Basketball Federation of Armenia, 1992-2001 Board\nMember of the National Olympic Committee of Armenia, 2003-2014 Member of the Board of Trustees of Yerevan State Engineering University.\n\nHrant Vardanyan died on April 20, 2014. He is buried at Yerevan City Pantheon.\n\nHrant Vardanyan started his professional career at the Yerevan Experimental Tobacco Plant as an engineer technologist, and since 1984 he has been the Deputy Director General Director of the Plant. In 1996, he started his entrepreneurial activity thus stimulating the restoration and development of domestic production. Hrant Vardanian founded Grand Tobacco, Grand Candy, International Masis Tabak and other companies that have leading positions in the domestic Armenian market and proudly represent national production in many countries oll over the world. The group of GRAND HOLDING companies established by him is a leading exporter of finished products in Armenia. In 2016 GRAND HOLDING employed over 7800 workers and was the largest tax payer in Armenia. Thanks to cooperation with this enterprise, tens of thousands of jobs have been created in agriculture, particularly, in borderline villages of the Republic of Armenia.\n\nSince 1991, during the first 6 years after independence, when unemployment was rampant, nearly nothing was manufactured in Armenia, and everything was imported, Hrant Vardanyan, as an entrepreneur, set himself the goal of reviving and developing of local manufacture. He was the first to believe that Armenia possesses the required intellectual, human and industrial potential to compete on the domestic and international markets. The philosophy was that the Armenian consumer should buy locally produced goods thus contributing to the development of the domestic production, while the local producer should produce high-quality products, so that the consumer prefers the goods labeled “Made in Armenia”. With this ideology, he became an example for other manufacturers and he proved that, in spite of mass unemployment, emigration and blockade, the Armenian nation is capable not only to work and produce high quality goods and to live with dignity but also to export its products and conquer markets all over the world.\n\nHrant Vardanyan’s charity activities were multipurpose and comprehensive. He sponsored science, education, culture, healthcare, sports, the National Zoo, and the children’s gratis TV channel “Hyerenik”, and monthly pensions were paid to the Heroes of Socialist Labor.\nHrant Vardanyan implemented large-scale long-term charity projects in Tavush Province of Armenia, specially in the borderline villages, thus promoting the development of the local communities.\n\nHrant Vardanian built the St. Thaddeus Church in the town of Masis in Armenia.\n\nHrant Vardanyan was born into the family of Mikael Vardanyan and Shushanik Sargsyan. He has two sisters Rima and Rosa. His grandmother and grandfather were victims of the 1915 Armenian Genocide in the village of Hinis, Western Armenia. At the age of 7 Hrant Vardanyan lost his father. He met his wife Zina Muruzyan while studying at the Polytechnic Institute. They got married in 1972. Hrant Vardanyan has two sons Mikael and Karen, and six grandchildren, Isabella, Zina, Hrant, Daniel, Mark, and Aksel.\n\n"}
{"id": "23857913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23857913", "title": "James J. Van Alen", "text": "James J. Van Alen\n\nJames John Van Alen (March 20, 1848 – July 13, 1923) was a sportsman and politician. He was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Italy on October 20, 1893, but declined the appointment. He was well known as a New York Society leader and was referred to as the \"American Prince of Wales.\"\n\nHe was the son of James Henry Van Alen (1819–1886), who served as a brigadier general in the Union Army during the Civil War, and Mary Young Steward (1818–1852). He attended and graduated from Oxford University.\n\nVan Alen donated $50,000 to Grover Cleveland's successful campaign for President. He was rewarded with an appointment as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Italy on October 20, 1893, but declined the appointment, owing to public disapproval. He was also rumored to have been appointed the United States Ambassador to Great Britain under President Cleveland.\n\nHis father became wealthy from real estate, which he inherited upon his death in 1886.\n\nIn 1919, he sold his house at 15 East 65th Street in Manhattan, to Rufus L. Patterson, due to his opposition to Prohibition. He then lived abroad, spending most of his time at a villa in Cannes, France, from February 1920 until his death. In 1919, Van Alen stated:\n\nI know of lots of people that will leave the United States and make their home in countries where the laws are not so strict.\"\n\nIn 1921, Van Alen sold eight three-story Harlem Houses in the 130th Street block, 28 to 42 West 130th Street, each on a lot 25 by 100 feet, between Fifth and Lenox Avenues to James H. Cruikshank.\n\nIn 1876, he married Emily Astor (1854–1881), the eldest daughter of William Backhouse Astor, Jr. (1829–1892) and Caroline Webster Schermerhorn (1830–1908). Together, James and Emily had three children:\n\nHis wife died in 1881, only 5 years after they were wed.\n\nVan Alen died in 1923 while in London. His entire estate was estimated at $20,000,000 (). After his property and stock was given to his son, and taxes were paid, the residual estate was valued at $2,061,617 (). His will provided trust funds of $500,000 () each for his daughters, Mary and Sarah, the principal to go to their descendants. His son, James, received all real estate, property, and life estate in the residue and his grandson, James H. Van Alen, a surviving life estate. An additional trust of $12,000 () was set aside for a friend, Mary M. Griffith. Upon her death, the residual went to his grandchildren.\n\nVan Alen was one of several very rich men who leased, but did not buy, Rushton Hall in Northamptonshire, England, from the Clarke-Thornhill family. Rushton was the ancestral home of the Tresham family. The estate is about of which are formal gardens. The River Ise flows from west to east south of the Hall.\n\nVan Alen's father had a home in Newport, Rhode Island called \" The Grange \" and lived there year-round. In 1887, seven years after his wife's death in 1881, Van Alen's father gave him the land and he commissioned American architect Dudley Newton to build a replica of Wakehurst Place in Newport from plans designed by Charles Eamer Kempe. When completed the home had cost Van Alen some $750,000 (). Salve Regina University purchased the mansion from the Van Alen family in 1972.\n\nHis two daughters did not have children, however his son, James Laurens Van Alen, had three children. James' eldest child was James Henry \"Jimmy\" Van Alen II (1902–1991), the founder of the International Tennis Hall of Fame, who married Eleanor Langley. His second born was William Laurens Van Alen (1907–2003), founding president of the United States Court Tennis Association, who married Elizabeth Brinton Kent, daughter of Arthur Atwater Kent, in 1931. His youngest, and only daughter was Louise Astor Van Alen (1910–1998). Louise was married three times, first in 1931 to Prince Alexei Mdivani (1905–1936). They divorced in 1932 when Mdivani left her to marry Woolworth heiress Barbara Hutton. In 1936, after Alexei's death, she married Prince Sergei Mdivani (1903–1936), her first husband's older brother. Sergei tragically died later that year in a polo accident. In 1947, she married for the third and final time, to Alexander Saunderson (1917–2004), grandson of Edward J. Saunderson (1837–1906), an MP and Lord Lieutenant of Cavan.\n"}
{"id": "6785091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6785091", "title": "James K. Gray", "text": "James K. Gray\n\nJames Kenneth Gray O.C., A.O.E. was born in Kirkland Lake, Ontario in 1933. He was educated at Ridley College in St. Catharines, Canada. He came to Calgary in 1956 to pursue a career in Alberta's energy sector. In 1973, he co-founded Canadian Hunter Exploration, an organization that became one of Canada's largest and most successful natural gas companies.\"\n\nGray has served as an independent director of Brookfield Asset Management (an NYSE listed company) since April 1997. He is also a director emeritus of Canadian National Railway, director of Phoenix Technology Services, and Honorary Chair of the Canada West Foundation. \n\nGray was recognized in 2002 with the Alberta Order of Excellence.\n\n"}
{"id": "32971411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32971411", "title": "Jay Boy Adams", "text": "Jay Boy Adams\n\nJames Wallace \"Jay Boy\" Adams (born December 8, 1949) is an American singer, songwriter, and guitarist from Lubbock and San Antonio, Texas, known particularly for storytelling in his songs.\n\nAdams was born in Fort Worth but reared in Colorado City, the seat of Mitchell County south of Snyder in West Texas, where his father was the local Chevrolet dealer and a rancher. Upon graduation in 1967 from Colorado City High School, he entered the University of North Texas at Denton, then North Texas State University, which is known for its arts and music curricula. There one of his English classmates was Don Henley, later with the Eagles. Adams also met Gary Nicholson while at NTSU. Adams went to Dallas, to hear the guitarist Bugs Henderson, who played an impact on Adams's musical development. He fondly credits the late nights spent listening to Henderson for the neglect of his college studies.\n\nWith hopes of a musical career of his own, Adams left UNT after two years and moved to Houston. There he met John Carrick whose mother was the owner of Sand Mountain Coffee House. His first solo performing was at Sand Mountain along with Carrick, Bobbie Jo Gentry, Jerry Jeff Walker and others. Adams and Carrick formed \"Hayseed\" a short lived band experimenting with original songs and then performing in and around Houston and at Alan's Landing. Once there, Adams met the guitarist Billy Gibbons of The Moving Sidewalks, and played at The Cellar. In late 1969 he moved to Midland where he joined the house band at The Chateau Club led by Johnny Heartsman. Adams credited Heartsman as a major influence. He attended Howard College, a community college in Big Spring, Texas, with the goal of improving his grade-point average so that he could re-enter a university. Meanwhile, he lost his draft deferment during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn March 1972, Steve Moss, a friend secured Adams a spot with the ZZ Top band in Lubbock. That summer he gained entry to Texas Tech University in Lubbock to study music and English. ZZ Top's manager, Bill Ham, soon invited Adams to play for the band at the Municipal Auditorium in Dallas. By 1976, Adams had signed with Atlantic Records, which in 1977 released his first music. After two albums Atlantic did not renew his contract. Late 1980 manager Bill Ham sent Adams to Capricorn Records in Macon, GA to record. His last recordings were done there with Paul Hornsby producing. Early 1981 before the album was completed Capricorn Records filed bandruptsy. Probably his best unfinished work to date was locked away in the legal vault. He and his band continued to perform and tour but by 1982 Adams had had enough and withdrew from the music scene. Adams is known for his ability for storytelling in song, a mixture of blues, rock and roll, country, and folk music. In those years, Adams often spent more than half of the year in concert tours. He performed not only with ZZ Top, but the Allman Brothers Band, Marshall Tucker Band, Joe Cocker, and many others. In the Cocker band for a time was a saxophone player, Bobby Keys, originally from Slaton in Lubbock County, who began touring with many bands as a young teenager. Keys and Adams had not previously met but toured together for a time with Cocker. It had been years since Bobby Keys had seen Lubbock. Adams invited Keys to return and play with his band at the first Joe Ely Tornado Jam.\n\nBy 1982, faced with mounting family obligations, Adams left the music business and avoided music clubs and concerts for most of the following fifteen years. Instead, he operated and still maintains the company, Roadhouse Transportation, which leases touring coaches to such celebrity singers as Celine Dion, ZZ Top, and Bruce Springsteen and even the Dallas Cowboys. He did for a time make a few annual musical appearances in Lubbock and in 1986 played there at the Cattle Baron’s Ball with Reba McEntire. He moved his family to a ranch in the Texas Hill Country and his business to the town of Comfort in Kendall County, part of the San Antonio Metropolitan Statistical Area. One evening Adams and his wife, Mary F. Adams, attended a show in San Antonio to hear the musician Lee Roy Parnell, who invited Adams to join him on stage. Thereafter, Adams's desire to perform in public was rekindled and became irresistible.\n\nIn 1999, Adams joined George Strait's national tour. He toured Europe with the Tejano group, the Texas Tornados. He became the co-manager of the popular singer Pat Green, whom Adams met when Green came looking for touring accommodations. By 2007, Adams released the album \"The Shoe Box\", which reached No. 5 on the Americana chart. The album offers ten new Adams selections and three from the late 1970s. \"The Shoe Box\" produced three top 10 single songs the Texas Music Chart, where it was posted for some two years. Singer Stephen Stills, an avid listener of \"The Shoe Box,\" declared Adams \"a great musician and a storyteller in the true Texas tradition\" and invited him to join Stills' national tour.\n\nIn 2005, Adams was featured on Bob Phillips's \"Texas Country Reporter\" syndicated television anthology series, with an explanation for his return to professional music.\n\nOn March 12, 2011, Adams performed in concert at the landmark Texas Theater in Sweetwater in Nolan County, near his hometown of Colorado City. It was the first concert in some seventy years at that facility, which had originally been designed for musical programs but converted to films after its opening.\n\nThe current lineup of Adams' band, The Roadhouse Scholars, include Sam Hendricks on Hammond B3 and piano, Mark Butzirus on drums, and Ronnie Leatherman on bass guitar. It is commonplace to see other musicians join Adams on stage. Currently Adams splits his time between Texas and Santa Fe, New Mexico, and plays regularly when in Santa Fe with a host of local and transplanted musicians from various parts of the USA. He is frequently seen performing in most of the popular night spots in Santa Fe that include El Farol, Evangelo's, and The Cowgirl.\n\nAdams is an artist through Wounded Bird Records. He has recently joined forces with other musical veterans in the rock group, Brothers of the Southland which include key members from southern rock pioneers The Outlaws, The Allman Brothers Band, The Marshall Tucker Band, Wet Willie, The Black Crowes, and new comer Bo Bice. Though his touring coach business is based in Kendall County (San Antonio), Adams kept Lubbock as his musical home. \"Lubbock is the capital of West Texas. There has been so much talent come out of there, and really . . . none of it has been very commercial. Buddy Holly wasn't commercial when he [first] came out of there.\" Among those to whom Adams was referring was Don Allison, an area musician associated with various genres of music and a long-time producer at the Cactus Theater in Lubbock, where Adams has also frequently performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "47640895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47640895", "title": "John Bagot (1849–1910)", "text": "John Bagot (1849–1910)\n\nJohn Bagot J.P. (10 January 1849 – 29 August 1910) was a businessman and politician in the colony of South Australia.\n\nJohn Bagot was born the second son of Christopher Michael Bagot (1817 – 8 November 1853) and Margaret Elizabeth Bagot, née Watts (ca.1823 – 6 November 1910) at his father's property \"Koonunga\", near Kapunda, South Australia. His mother was a daughter of Capt. John Watts (of the 73rd Regiment), who was at one time Adelaide's Postmaster-General. His grandfather, who selected the property, was Capt. Charles Hervey Bagot, of the 59th Regiment, who arrived in South Australia on the \"Birman\" in December 1840. It was on this same property that copper was discovered by Captain Bagot's youngest son Charles Samuel Bagot, which incorporated with the F. S. Dutton's adjoining property \"Anlaby\", became Australia's first copper mine.\n\nJohn Bagot was educated at St. Peter's College, then for several years worked for the National Bank of Australasia. In the 1870s he and his brother C. M. Bagot (1852–1899) took up the Peake Cattle Run, between Warrina and Lake Eyre, which they continued to run until around 1900. He also owned the \"Springbank\" property near Burra for a few years. For a long period he was a director of Bagot, Shakes, & Lewis, Limited, Broken Hill Pty., the National Bank, the South Australian Brewing Company, the Alliance Assurance Company, and the South Australian Mining Association.\n\nHe was represented the seat of Victoria in the South Australian House of Assembly from April 1884 to April 1887.\n\nHe married Lucy Josephine Ayers (ca.1857 – 11 May 1945), a daughter of Sir Henry Ayers, on 24 September 1878. Walter Hervey Bagot (17 March 1880 – 27 February 1889), a noted architect, and founding partner in Woods and Bagot was the only child to survive to adulthood. They lived at Buxton Street, North Adelaide, later Park Terrace, Fitzroy until 1901, then \"Forest Lodge\", 19 Pine Street, Stirling, where John established a fine garden. His library included a valuable collection of Australiana. For several years prior to his death Mr. Bagot was an invalid, and was obliged to retire altogether from public life, living on Pennington Terrace, North Adelaide, where he died.\n\nHis widow endowed a prize for botany at the University of Adelaide in his name from 1912.\n\nCharles Hervey Bagot \"Captain Bagot\" (c. 17 April 1788 – 29 July 1880) married Mary MacCarthy ( – 17 January 1860) around 1815. They emigrated on the \"Birman\", arriving in South Australia in December 1840. He was a member of the Legislative Council for a number of terms between 1844 and 1869. Among their descendants were:\n\n"}
{"id": "30285731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30285731", "title": "John Treasure", "text": "John Treasure\n\nJohn Treasure (20 June 1924 – 9 February 2004) was a leading figure in the British advertising industry in the 1960s, 70s and 80s. He was chairman of J Walter Thompson in the UK while it was the country's number one agency, and then vice chairman of Saatchi & Saatchi when it in turn held the number one position; he was also Dean of City University Business School and Master of the Worshipful Company of Marketors. He was a potent proponent of the economic and social value of his industry, and became known as \"Mr Advertising.\"\n\nJohn Albert Penberthy Treasure was born at Usk, in Monmouthshire, on 20 June 1924. The son of a bank clerk, he was brought up in Cardiff, where he was educated at the High School, and went on to take first-class honours in economics at University College, then part of the University of Wales. In 1947 he won a Kemsley Fellowship to spend two years in America. He returned to teach and read for a doctorate at Magdalene College, Cambridge; his thesis, \"On problems of the British export trade\", later had some influence on the reporting of balance of payments figures. Meanwhile, he made ends meet by offering guided tours of Cambridge's colleges which earned him £5 a day. He met and married Valerie Bell during this period, and to finance his PhD studies, in 1952 he joined the British Market Research Bureau (BMRB). By 1957, he was BMRB's managing director; by 1960, director of the marketing and research department at its parent company, J Walter Thompson. While running this 60-strong department, he set up a research and development committee to plan and manage JWT's substantial research budget. Innovations during this period included the TV Attention Survey (a prototype of modern TV audience research which gave useful insights, enabled JWT to buy airtime better and became a remarkable new business tool) and the creative workshop, which tested new and experimental ideas with qualitative research. JWT became the standard bearer of modern market research and the theory of how advertising works, what it does and how to measure it.\n\nIn 1967, at the age of 43, Treasure became JWT chairman. Between then and 1976, when he resigned, he presided over one of the most successful periods in the long life of that agency: under his chairmanship, JWT in the UK grew fourfold in recorded billings from £20 million to £80 million. Treasure became a director of the J Walter Thompson company worldwide, becoming vice chairman in 1974, and was president of both the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising and the Market Research Society. He was also president of the National Advertising Benevolent Society and later of the History of Advertising Trust, where he remained a governor until 2002; he also headed a Conservative Party committee on communications. Not only to the advertising village, but also to a much wider world outside, he became known as ‘Mr Advertising’. When he was the subject of Bernard Levin's chat show The Levin Interview in 1966, the television critic of The Sunday Times wrote: “On the level of civil, intelligent Q&A it was very good. A good deal of rubbish that is talked about advertising, from both sides, was sensibly disposed of.”\n\nHe left the agency world in 1977 at the age of 52 to become Dean and Professor of Marketing at the City University Business School, where in four years he raised the school's profile, expanded its range and secured new professorial posts and premises. He returned to the commercial advertising world in 1980, running his own agency John Treasure and Partners, which then merged with Freeman Mathews Milne to become Freeman Mathews Treasure, before the Saatchi brothers, possibly in recognition of the role he had played in suggesting them to Margaret Thatcher for the Conservative Party account, invited him to become vice-chairman of their rapidly growing agency. He joined Saatchi & Saatchi in 1983, and added weight and gravitas to the predominantly young and aggressive management team there for several years.\n\nIn 1989 he moved back to his first love, market research, to become chairman of Taylor Nelson AGB plc, and presided over its acquisition of Sofres to become the world’s number two market research group. In the Millennium year he was a well-connected, highly regarded Master of the Worshipful Company of Marketors. He retired the following year, and though he was active in Richmond, Surrey (he chaired the Friends of Old Deer Park and raised money for Richmond Theatre and the Museum of Richmond) his health declined from then on.\n\nColleague and industry commentator Jeremy Bullmore wrote: \"Although he retained a certain reserve all his life, Treasure was always possessed of presence; he commanded attention. He chaired meetings and spoke in public with natural confidence and evident enjoyment... The source of this authority was a clear and analytical mind, combined with an enviable ability to express complicated thoughts in jargon-free language... Treasure's intellectual curiosity, his withering contempt for flabby thinking and his fascination with theory had a liberating effect on others. His presence seemed to grant implicit permission to experiment, to speculate and to innovate.\"\n\nPossibly the best evidence of Treasure’s intense focus and competitive nature came from golf. He took up the game at the age of 50, becoming an active member of Royal Mid-Surrey Golf Club – and within five years, with RMS professional David Talbot, he had become good enough to compete in the State Express 555 National Pro-Am Championship at Penina in Portugal. He holed a 40-footer on the 18th green to draw level with the leaders, and the pair went on to win the play-off; at the winners' press conference, Treasure revealed that he had dreamed the night before that he would win with just such a putt, provoking the Daily Mail headline \"Prophetic Prof Sinks Dream Putt\". Good publicity was in his nature.\n\nJohn Treasure's influence on the advertising profession and its image in the UK was significant and lasting: Maurice (later Baron) Saatchi called him “one of the great figures of advertising”. Hamish Pringle, the IPA director-general, said: \"With John's passing we have lost another giant of UK advertising. His contribution to the industry was enormous.\"\n\nJohn Treasure died in Kingston Hospital on 9 February 2004. His papers from his time at JWT are stored as the John Treasure Collection at the History of Advertising Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "3450018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3450018", "title": "Josateki Nawalowalo", "text": "Josateki Nawalowalo\n\nRatu Josateki Tuivanuavou Nacagilevu Nawalowalo (1950 – 27 August 2010), commonly known as Ratu Jo Nawalowalo, was a Fijian chief, businessman, and the chairman of the Kadavu Provincial Council. He also chaired the Fiji Kava Council, which promotes the sale of yaqona locally and internationally.\n\nAs chairman of the Provincial Council, Nawalowalo promoted aggressive infrastructural development programs. He also strongly supported the central government of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, and refused to let Military teams tour Kadavu to campaign against the government's controversial Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill, which Nawalowalo strongly supported.\n\nOn 29 March 2006, Nawalowalo expressed interest in contesting the Kadavu Fijian Communal Constituency for the ruling Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua Party (SDL), but ended up withdrawing in favour of the incumbent, Konisi Yabaki.\n\nIn the aftermath of the military takeover of 5 December 2006, Nawalowalo changed his views, and threw his support behind the new regime. This provoked an angry reaction from some of his fellow chiefs, who were reported by Fiji Television on 9 December as instructing him to refrain from making any further public statements without their approval. In May 2008, he was not returned as chairman of the Kadavu Provincial Council.\n\nNawalowalo co-chaired the task force focusing on economic growth within the National Council for Building a Better Fiji.\n\nNawalowalo died 27 August 2010, aged 60.\n"}
{"id": "3590373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3590373", "title": "Justice Center Complex", "text": "Justice Center Complex\n\nThe Justice Center Complex is a building complex located in the Civic Center District in Cleveland, Ohio, in the United States. The complex consists of the Cleveland Police Headquarters Building, the Cuyahoga County and Cleveland Municipal Courts Tower, and the Correction Center (Jail I), and Jail II. It occupies a city block bounded by Lakeside Avenue, Ontario Street, West 3rd Street, and St. Clair Avenue. The Lakeside Avenue entrance faces the Cuyahoga County Court House, erected in 1912.\n\nWhen the Justice Center was proposed in 1969, then-Mayor Carl B. Stokes did not want to be part of the Justice Center project. At the time, the Cleveland Police were at an older headquarters on East 22nd Street. In 1971, voters elected Mayor Ralph Perk, who accepted the police department recommendation to move to the proposed Justice Center. The original cost for the Justice Center was set at $60 million, but infighting between Cuyahoga County and City of Cleveland officials escalated the cost to $128 million. On October 20, 1972, ground was broken for the Justice Center. Construction was complete in 1976.\n\nThe Courts Tower component, 26 stories high, was designed by Prindle, Patrick and Associates. Jail I was built in 1976, when the rest of the construction of the complex was completed. It had 956 beds, arranged in pods of 23, and each pod was designed to take extensive advantage of natural light. The Courts Tower has been criticized by Steven Litt in \"The Plain Dealer\" as menacing, cold, and distracting.\n\nIn 1995, the Robert P. Madison International-designed, $68 million Jail II was erected on the southern corner of the block. A suburban location was considered for the facility, but county officials found it was cheaper to demolish two older structures next to the Justice Center. Jail II added 480 beds. Determined to avoid cost overruns on the structure, Jail II was left without stone cladding—which made it clash with the three buildings beside it. Jail II was harshly criticized by Steven Litt in \"The Plain Dealer\" as \"straight out of \"1984\"\" and for clashing with historic structures in the nearby Warehouse District.\n\nA four-story atrium exists in the center of the block, and serves as the secure public entry to the complex. The atrium helps resolve ground-level changes at the site, and connects the Courts Tower, Police Headquarters, and Correction Center (Jail I) structures internally. The north, south, and east walls of the atrium are glass curtain walls. An enclosed, elevated walkway connects Jail I and Jail II, while an enclosed walkway connects Cleveland Police Headquarters with Jail II.\n\nThe entire complex contains about of interior space.\n\nThe bases of both the Cleveland Police Headquarters and the Correction Center are deeply recessed with a regular spacing of bays and perimeter columns. Bronze tinted glass enhances the play of shadow upon the surface of the structures.\n\nCleveland Police Headquarters and the atrium are set much further back from Ontario Street than the Courts Tower. An open paved plaza occupies this space. Located at the northwestern end of this plaza is the Isamu Noguchi sculpture, \"Portal\", donated by the Gund Foundation in 1977. The $100,000, high sculpture was cast by the Patterson-Leitch Company of Cleveland. It is one of Isamu Noguchi's famous sculptures, and the most recognizable symbol of the Justice Center. One Cleveland art critic said \"Portal\" looked like \"justice going down the drain\". But artist John Clague highly praised it, and sculptor Clement Meadmore says it is Noguchi's best work.\n\nThe granite veneer of the Courts Tower, Police Headquarters, and Corrections Center underwent a $3.2 million refurbishment in 1995.\n\nA $13 million renovation of the Corrections Center and Jail II was completed in 1999. The renovations increased the capacity of Jail I to 1,749 beds.\n\nIn 2013, Cuyahoga County officials commissioned a study from Osborne Engineering to assess the condition of the Justice Center Complex. The report, issued in spring 2014, found that the Justice Center Complex was in significant disrepair. The study cited significant architectural and construction issues which have affected the longevity of the three original structures, and Cuyahoga County Public Works Director Michael Dever said the electrical system, plumbing, elevators, and HVAC system all need replacing. The structures also have little capacity for modern communications and computer systems (such as broadband telecommunications), and currently systems are installed in insecure or temporary fashions. The buildings were not constructed to accommodate Wi-Fi or mobile phones, neither of which can be accommodated in many parts of the complex. The cost of renovation was pegged at a minimum of $300 million. The Osborne Engineering report estimated the cost of new construction at $429 million, which involved demolishing the Cleveland police headquarters and the Courts Tower and constructing a one or two new buildings in their place.\n\nCounty officials came to the preliminary conclusion that the Justice Complex should be demolished, and a new \"justice center\" erected elsewhere in downtown Cleveland. Cuyahoga County Council member Michael Gallagher told \"The Plain Dealer\" newspaper that advances in corrections design made the existing Corrections Center/Jail I significantly outdated. He also claimed that renovations could not correct the design and other deficiencies of the buildings. But county officials emphasized that no alternative site had been identified, and no budget proposals or even preliminary architectural discussions had occurred.\n\nThe Justice Center Complex plays an important role in the third season of the Serial Podcast. The season opens with a general description of day-to-day lives inside the complex and then focusses on specific cases being handled and (sometimes) trialled in the building. Several of the audio recordings take place inside the complex and feature the host, Sarah Koenig, discussing and interviewing those involved in the cases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48590646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48590646", "title": "Khaled Juffali", "text": "Khaled Juffali\n\nKhaled Juffali is a Saudi businessman.\n\nJuffali is the son of Ahmed Abdullah Juffali (1924-1994), the founder of E. A. Juffali and Brothers, one of Saudi Arabia's largest companies. His younger brother is the billionaire Walid Juffali, and his sister is Maha Juffali. His brother Tarek Juffali died in 2006 from a drug overdose, and had been \"a heavy heroin and cocaine user and also took Rohypnol and smoked 30 cannabis joints a day\".\n\nHe was educated at Brummana High School in Lebanon and Institut Le Rosey in Switzerland, and received a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of San Diego, California, US, in 1979.\n\nJuffali is a managing partner and vice chairman at E. A. Juffali and Brothers.\n\nJuffali is chairman of ReAya Holding, Saudi Tractors Manufacturing, National Automobile Industry, Saudi Ericsson Communications, Fluor Daniel Arabia, and Raychem Saudi Arabia.\n\nHe is married to fellow Saudi, Olfat Al-Mutlaq Juffali, and they have four children together.\n"}
{"id": "58835502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58835502", "title": "Kjell Aamot", "text": "Kjell Aamot\n\nKjell Aamot (born 7 November 1950) is a Norwegian business executive who chaired the Schibsted Media Group for twenty years. \n\nAamot is educated as economist from the BI Norwegian Business School. He has had administrative position in Verdens Gang, and served as CEO of Schibsted from 1989 to 2009.\n"}
{"id": "1551195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551195", "title": "Lead chamber process", "text": "Lead chamber process\n\nThe lead chamber process was an industrial method used to produce sulfuric acid in large quantities. It has been largely supplanted by the contact process.\n\nIn 1746 in Birmingham, England, John Roebuck began producing sulfuric acid in lead-lined chambers, which were stronger and less expensive, and could be made much larger, than the glass containers which had been used previously. This allowed the effective industrialization of sulfuric acid production and, with several refinements, this process remained the standard method of production for almost two centuries. So robust was the process that as late as 1946, the chamber process still accounted for 25% of sulfuric acid manufactured.\n\nSulfur dioxide is introduced with steam and nitrogen dioxide into large chambers lined with sheet lead where the gases are sprayed down with water and chamber acid (62–70% Sulfuric acid). The sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide dissolve and over a period of approximately 30 minutes the sulfur dioxide is oxidized to sulfuric acid. The presence of nitrogen dioxide is necessary for the reaction to proceed at a reasonable rate. The process is highly exothermic, and a major consideration of the design of the chambers was to provide a way to dissipate the heat formed in the reactions.\n\nEarly plants used very large lead-lined wooden rectangular chambers (Faulding box chambers) that were cooled by ambient air. The internal lead sheathing served to contain the corrosive sulfuric acid and to render the wooden chambers waterproof. Around the turn of the nineteenth century, such plants required about half a cubic meter of volume to process the sulfur dioxide equivalent of a kilogram of burned sulfur. In the mid-19th century, French chemist Gay-Lussac redesigned the chambers as stoneware packed masonry cylinders. In the 20th century, plants using Mills-Packard chambers supplanted the earlier designs. These chambers were tall tapered cylinders that were externally cooled by water flowing down the outside surface of the chamber.\n\nSulfur dioxide for the process was provided by burning elemental sulfur or by the roasting of sulfur-containing metal ores in a stream of air in a furnace. During the early period of manufacture, nitrogen oxides were produced by the decomposition of niter at high temperature in the presence of acid, but this process was gradually supplanted by the air oxidation of ammonia to nitric oxide in the presence of a catalyst. The recovery and reuse of oxides of nitrogen was an important economic consideration in the operation of a chamber process plant.\n\nIn the reaction chambers, nitric oxide reacts with oxygen to produce nitrogen dioxide. Liquid from the bottom of the chambers is diluted and pumped to the top of the chamber and sprayed downwards in a fine mist. Sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide are absorbed in the liquid and react to form sulfuric acid and nitric oxide. The liberated nitric oxide is sparingly soluble in water and returns to the gas in the chamber where it reacts with oxygen in the air to reform nitrogen dioxide. Some percentage of the nitrogen oxides are sequestered in the reaction liquor as nitrosylsulfuric acid and as nitric acid, so fresh nitric oxide must be added as the process proceeds. Later versions of chamber plants included a high-temperature Glover tower to recover the nitrogen oxides from the chamber liquor, while concentrating the chamber acid to as much as 78% HSO. Exhaust gases from the chambers are scrubbed by passing into a tower through which some of the Glover acid flows over broken tile. Nitrogen oxides are absorbed to form nitrosylsulfuric acid, which is then returned to the Glover tower to reclaim the oxides of nitrogen.\n\nSulfuric acid produced in the reaction chambers is limited to about 35% concentration. At higher concentrations, nitrosylsulfuric acid precipitates on the lead walls as chamber crystals and is no longer able to catalyze the oxidation reactions.\n\nSulfur dioxide is generated by burning elemental sulfur or by roasting pyritic ore in a current of air:\n\nNitrogen oxides are produced by decomposition of niter in the presence of sulfuric acid or hydrolysis of nitrosylsulfuric acid:\n\nIn the reaction chambers, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide dissolve in the reaction liquor. Nitrogen dioxide is hydrated to produce nitrous acid which then oxidizes the sulfur dioxide to sulfuric acid and nitric oxide. The reactions are not well characterized but it is known that nitrosylsulfuric acid is an intermediate in at least one pathway. The major overall reactions are:\n\nNitric oxide escapes from the reaction liquor and is subsequently reoxidized by molecular oxygen to nitrogen dioxide. This is the overall rate determining step in the process:\n\nNitrogen oxides are absorbed and regenerated in the process, and thus serve as a catalyst for the overall reaction:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35615584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35615584", "title": "Lee Mark Chang", "text": "Lee Mark Chang\n\nLee Mark Chang is a Belizean politician and restaurateur. A member of the United Democratic Party, he was the first ethnic Chinese person to hold the post of President (\"pro tempore\") of the Senate of Belize.\n\nLee got his start in life working at the Chon Saan Palace restaurant which his father Armando Chang opened in 1974. From a small family restaurant, under his management he grew it to a chain with three locations and fifty staff, making it \"one of the biggest names in restaurants\". He also became the president of the Chinese Association of Belize. Under his tenure as president, the CAB worked closely with the Belize Police Department on issues of crime prevention, and also donated several motorcycles. He also served in a variety of public positions, for example sitting on the Belize District Liquor Licensing board and working as an occasional court translator.\n\nChang first announced his intention to join electoral politics in August 2009. In August 2010, PM Dean Barrow appointed Chang to the Senate and made him acting President, to fill in for Andrea Gill who was on maternity leave. Politicians from both sides of the aisle such as the PUP's Lisa Shoman offered congratulations to him on what they described as \"the epitome of Belize's cultural diversity\" and an \"important milestone\" for Belize's Chinese community.\n\nLee entered the 2012 \"double election\" as the UDP's National Assembly candidate for the Freetown constituency. In the run-up to the election, an unknown person released a forged letter claiming to be from Chang, promising to distribute land in Belama to the Belize Chinese Association in exchange for campaign contributions. The \"Belize Times\" also published a number of racist comments about him. Lee lost the election to PUP party leader Francis Fonseca by 1,558 to 1,408 votes. In early April Chang filed a motion for an election petition in April, alleging that Fonseca's agents engaged in bribery of the electorate. Chief Justice Kenneth Benjamin granted him leave to bring the petition; it was the first election petition in Belize's history to be granted on the grounds of bribery.\n\n2015: He became the President of the Senate, after the United Democratic Party won their 3rd term.\n\nChang's parents are Chinese immigrants. He was born at the former Holden Memorial Hospital on the Marine Parade in Belize City.\n"}
{"id": "7255899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7255899", "title": "Low-cost country sourcing", "text": "Low-cost country sourcing\n\nLow-cost country sourcing (LCCS) is procurement strategy in which a company sources materials from countries with lower labour and production costs in order to cut operating expenses. LCCS falls under a broad category of procurement efforts called global sourcing.\n\nThe process of low-cost sourcing consists of two parties. The customer and the supplier countries like US, UK, Canada, Australia, and West European nations are considered as high-cost countries (HCC) whereas resource rich and regulated wage labor locations like China, India, Indonesia, Bolivia, Brazil, Russia, Mexico, and East European nations are considered low-cost countries (LCC). In low-cost-country sourcing the material (products) flows from LCC to HCC while the technology flows from HCC to LCC.\n\nThe primary principle behind LCCS is to obtain sourcing efficiencies through identifying and exploiting cost arbitrage between geographies.\n\nAside from price other reasons for engaging in global sourcing can include improved manufacturing capacity/ time frames, quality of goods, improved customer services and logistics benefits.\n\nNot necessarily all \"low cost countries\" are destinations for LCCS. Only those countries with relatively stable political and economic environment, modern infrastructure and acceptably compatible legal system are considered to be ideal for sourcing. Examples and most popular regions are China, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Ethiopia, India, Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, Mexico, Bolivia, Cambodia, Hungary and Czech Republic.\n\nLabour costs have been rising across Asia as Asians now are more willing to pay a premium for the products and services they receive and thus causing production cost to increase. Many countries in Asia have seen a rapid rise in wages since the late 2000s. One factor contributing to the wage rises is due to the shift of labour from agricultural work into more productive jobs in industry, labour productivity has increased quickly thus leading to wage growth. Workers will demand for better wages as Singapore's economic growth and living costs are gradually increasing. Businesses will thus face pressure on their profit margins as rising labour costs leads to higher production costs.\n\nLabour costs in China and India have been increasing over the years. China was initially one of the lowest labour cost countries known. However, due to the rising demands of people and the increase in the cost of goods, China is no longer regarded as the ‘cheapest’ country to manufacture goods anymore. China is now deemed as less competitive compared to other countries. The increased labour costs have resulted in some foreign firms exiting the country, in search of countries where labour cost is cheaper, like Thailand and Philippines. Other countries apart from China are beginning to provide raw materials at a lower cost, leaving manufacturers with more choices as regards their suppliers.\n\nA 2012 E&Y report says that \"Wages have been pushed up by long-term decline in the aggregate labor force, combined with a rapid depletion in rural surplus labor, which has until recently provided an ultimate source of cheap labor,\". But it warned that the massive reallocation of labor \"from low productivity agriculture to higher productivity manufacturing is coming to an end\". Even before the Chinese economy started to turn down, there were concerns that it was facing a middle income trap, widely identified by economists as showing the danger of a Lewis Turning Point, a phenomenon observed in history of Japan, which showed that rapid urbanization led to a growth in manufacturing. However, eventually, the phenomenon comes to an end as wages rise and the country's competitive edge disappears. The number of migrant workers in China has been increasing at a slower pace since 2005. Although there are 320 million laborers still in agriculture, only 20 million have the potential to migrate to cities, pushing the country to a point at which \"the excess labor in the subsistence sector is fully absorbed into the modern sector, and where further capital accumulation begins to increase wages\" - pointing to a Lewis scenario.\n\nLabor shortage is not yet a major problem in China, as there are still governmental measures to free up the pool of rural labor, such as the further easing of the hukou, or household registration, system. “However, these are unlikely to reverse the trend of increasing labor costs\". They will continue to rise as minimum wages and social welfare improve, adding that on top of the 13 percent annual increase in the minimum wage as set in the 12th Five-Year Plan (2011–15), mandatory social welfare will add another 35 to 40 percent to the payroll cost.\n\nBecause there is a large supply of workers, especially in rural sector, wage growth for unskilled labor will grow slowly. At the same time, “wage growth for skilled labor will also likely taper off because of the convergence of college wage premiums to international standards in recent years and the anticipated robust supply of university graduates and professionals returning from overseas”. Therefore, overall wage will slowly grow in the near future.\n\n\"Rising wages are most significant to primary producers and services industries, as labor takes the major share of total costs in these sectors,\". Apart from labor, capital - still relatively cheap in China - will also become more expensive as policymakers move the country toward interest rate liberalization.\nMaterial costs, too, will continue to rise and will reach global levels. As the economy slows down, it becomes harder and harder for companies to pass on the costs to customers. For example, India, being a poor country, will soon emerge to be the cheapest manufacturer.\n\nChina's rising labor costs will help other South Asian countries gain a foothold in low-end manufacturing.\n\n"}
{"id": "15759405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15759405", "title": "Melody Harris-Jensbach", "text": "Melody Harris-Jensbach\n\nMelody Harris-Jensbach (born 1961) is a Korean-American Manager. Currently she is CEO of the German outdoor apparel and equipment producer Jack Wolfskin.\n\nShe graduated at the Parsons School of Design in New York City. Due to her marriage, Melody Harris-Jensbach moved to Germany in 1986 where she first worked for the fashion firms Cartoon, Triangle and later became Head Designer for Viventy by Bernd Berger. In 1993 she became Chief Designer Women's wear and Accessories at Escada's label Laurèl, and a few years later, Chief Design and Product Manager at Fink Modelle. \n\nAs a next step in her career, Harris-Jensbach took the position of Design Director Women's Wear at Esprit in 1998. In 2003, she took on the responsibility as International Product Director Women, and in 2005 she also took over the Women's Casual Division, Esprit's core business. \n\nAs Puma had stated in June 2007, Melody Harris-Jensbach joined the company's Board of Management as Deputy CEO in January 2008. She took over the position from Martin Gänsler and is responsible for the areas Product, Product Development, Design, Business Unit Management and Worldwide Sourcing for the Retail Business. This made her the first female Deputy CEO of a German company.\n\nIn November 2014, Harris-Jensbach has been nominated CEO of the Germany-based outdoor apparel and equipment producer Jack Wolfskin, a company owned by The Blackstone Group.\n"}
{"id": "39469977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39469977", "title": "Men's parking space", "text": "Men's parking space\n\nMen's parking space is an antonym to women's parking space.\n\nNormally mentioned only in satire, in July 2012 two men's parking spaces were opened in Triberg in the Black Forest of Germany. Planned as a practical joke presenting a specific challenge to unskilled drivers, they produced worldwide media interest in the combination of humour to lampoon the idea of political correctness and of successful city marketing.\n\nTriberg, a small city of five thousand inhabitants, has an extremely steep topography. It has waterfalls. In 2010, Triberg was reportedly visited by about 250,000 tourists per year, most of whom came to see the waterfalls on a day-tour basis. After the 9/11 attacks, Americans, who had been frequent visitors, became less likely to visit. That and the decline of the local watchmaking industry have caused problems for Triberg's economy.\n\nIn 2007 Max-Dieter Mack presented preliminary plans for a €90 million Amusement park, \"Erlebniswelt Triberg,\" on a former industrial site in the municipality. Mack, an architect, is a Triberg native and relative of leisure park mogul Roland Mack. The parking garage at Kreuzstraße is the only planned building constructed so far. Mack was not commissioned for this. Instead of the theme park, a smaller shopping mall and some comparably humble attractions are now on schedule. The back of the parking garage is angled to follow the course of the River Gutach. Therefore, two parking bays, one on each level, have a peculiar shape and can be reached only by a complicated parking maneuver. Mayor Strobel and the architects, Judith Haas and Mattias Huismanns, deliberated about excluding those two bays from the garage of 220 bays, which was built for €2 million.\n\nStrobel decided to declare them \"men's parking spaces\". Per the state garage regulations in force in Baden-Wuerttemberg, ten per cent of all stalls (numbering twelve and of the standard shape and size) had to be declared for women in any event, but their misuse by men is not punishable according to the StVO (the federal \"Straßenverkehrsordnung\", or Highway Code of Germany). Accordingly, the only recourse available to property owners is to eject the misuser for trespassing or to tow his (or her) car; the operator of this particular garage (i.e. the government of the city of Triberg) declines to take either of these actions and instead appeals to the honour system in the case of the women's spaces and to the skill of the driver, whatsoever his or her sex, for the 'men's'.\n\nAccording to Ruth Becker's research about risk zones in town planning, women have more to fear in personal surroundings and at home, while men are the object (and dominantly subject) of attacks in the outside world. Becker refers to U.S. author Elizabeth Wilson's \"Sphinx in the city\" and assume that women overestimate the dangers of urban surroundings. Herbert Glasauer doubts that women's parking spaces have a positive effect, and sees them as a sort of backlash perpetuating a damsel in distress perspective instead of addressing actual violence.\n\nMen's parking spaces, as in the Triberg example, are \"for the brave\" and ask their users to cope with risk, darkness, wilderness, and skill. Even before the Triberg controversy, for example, German satirist Florian Willet demanded in 2011 that the riskiest places in garages to be reserved for \"real men\". An American reporter in Utah noted that an American mayor attempting to set up a men's parking space would face greater legal risk compared to Strobel.\n\nThe dedication, planned as a practical joke and a way to alert unskilled drivers to the specific challenge of the two parking slots, attracted worldwide media coverage.\n\nUS television networks, including ABC and NBC News, reported the story. Becky Bratu, a news journalist with NBC News, suggested that Mayor Gallus Strobel had increased the threshold for drivers to attract more tourists. NBC News quoted Mayor Strobel's interview with \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" to challenge political correctness, and his hope the tight spaces would be an attraction for ambitious drivers.\n\nMayor Strobel had media contacts and interviews with French, and English Italian and South African media. \"Le Figaro\" quoted Strobel as stating \"Une ville touristique se doit de faire parler d'elle\" (\"A tourist town has to make people talk about it.\").\n\n\"The Huffington Post\" reported: \"A town in southwest Germany has drawn accusations of sexism after designating two particularly tricky parking spaces \"men only\". The Associated Press was on site and compared the Triberg Challenge to Chinese Woman only parking lots. \"The Daily Telegraph\" in UK, a women's magazine in Morocco, and Norway's \"Aftenposten\" also all reported.\n\n\"Times of India\" reporter Kritika Kapoor wrote an article on the issue. She quoted Strobel about his secretary's failure to park on the slot, saying \"Five times she tried and no success\", and inviting women to stand for the challenge. \"Women can come here and prove me wrong, and while they're at it, they can see the town's attractions.\" Kapoor pointed out that Triberg's introduction of gendered parking is not the first example of sexist parking spots.\n\nThe Greens' youth association of Ortenau wrote an open letter against the parking spots and gender equality official Anette Klaas of the neighboring Waldshut-Tiengen district criticized them as \"a foolhardy provocation\".\n\nStrobel, who has a legal background and holds a PhD in the history of law, countered that the critics were being humourless and described the dedication as usage of a cliché for city marketing. Dieter Stein, a writer living in Triberg, published a humorous booklet about the story. The men's parking slots are included in city tours, and Triberg also sells merchandising articles.\n\nThe gender-based parking has been featured in annual TV retrospectives in Germany and South Africa. In 2013, Gallus Strobel was a guest on several television programmes, and the local carnival association baptized and tested the parking lots. The number of tourists and visitors to Triberg increased to almost 400,000 in 2012, compared to 250,000 annually before. Neighboring St. Georgen came up with a temporary men's parking place, in the sense of \"a place where men are being parked\" (Männergarten).\n\n"}
{"id": "11376996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11376996", "title": "Metal Bulletin", "text": "Metal Bulletin\n\nMetal Bulletin is a specialist international publisher and information provider for the global steel, non-ferrous and scrap metals markets. It is headquartered in London, United Kingdom.\n\n\"Metal Bulletin\" was first introduced in 1913. Its mission then, as it is now, was to provide must-have timely information, including price indications, for the global non-ferrous metals and steel markets. Over the years, \"Metal Bulletin\" became established as the bible for the world's metals and steel trading communities.\n\n\"Metal Bulletin's\" breadth of product offerings extends from online news and prices services, magazines, newsletters and online real time services, to directories and databases, books, market trackers and forecasts, research reports, and consultancy and the staging of events around the globe in the form of conferences and exhibitions.\n\nThe magazine was acquired by Euromoney Institutional Investor in October 2006 for $408 million.\n\n\"Metal Bulletin\" is the premium intelligence service for metals and steel professionals everywhere. Covering all global metals and steel markets, it provides a comprehensive package of the latest news, pricing information, expert market commentary and statistics.\n\nMetals covered in detail include carbon steel, stainless and special steel, scrap and secondary, ores and alloys, raw materials, minor and precious metals, and base metals with additional coverage of freight news, capital markets, and exchange news and prices.\n\n"}
{"id": "54091003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54091003", "title": "Narendra Maharjan", "text": "Narendra Maharjan\n\nNarendra Maharjan is a movie producer, distributor, exhibitor, and actor. He is President of distribution company FD, and produced movies like First Love (2010), Loot (2012), Chhadke (2013), Mission Paisa Reloaded (2015), Fanko (2016).\n\nNarendra Maharjan was born on 10 December 1966. His father is Nand Bahadur Maharjan of Bhutandevi Mandir Road, Hetauda ward no 10, Makwanpur District, Nepal. He completed his school from Tribhuvan Hanuman Higher Secondary School (Birgunj) and college from Thakurram Multiple college (Birgunj).\n\nNarendra Maharjan started his career as distributor of Hindi movies Aag and Krantiveer in Nepal, Later on He co-produced the movies Maute Dai, Dulaha Raja, Dulahi Rani, Dharmaputra, Dhansampati, Upahar, Sukha Dukha, He also a chairman of the FD Company Pvt. Ltd. in 2012 which distribute 90% of the movies produced in Nepal all over the country.\n\nHe is also operating six cinema exhibition centers in different part of the country where he holds a position of chairperson in Bina Chalchitra Mandir, a coordinator and a share holder in OM and OMAX Chalchitra Mandir and is a contractor of Janajyoti Chalchitra Mandir, Satya Chalchitra Mandir and JiwanDeep Chalchitra Mandir.\n\nHe is also Involved with the professional organizations where he hold the position of Central member in Nepal Motion Picture Association and Pro-Public Cineworkers Association Nepal and as a member in Nepal National Commerce Association and Nepal Motion Picture Producer Association\n\n"}
{"id": "6045495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6045495", "title": "Nick Michaels", "text": "Nick Michaels\n\nNick Michaels (1950 – May 26, 2018) was a Canadian-American voice actor, writer, producer, and narrator.\n\nNick Michaels started in radio while still in high school in Canada. After copywriting for AdGroup International in Montreal, he moved to Toronto in 1973. He became one of the top commercial voice-over actors in Canada with multiple national accounts such as Molson, Kodak, Texaco, Kellogg's, Procter & Gamble, and Toyota.\n\nMichaels relocated to New York City in 1977, a move that resulted in several long-running campaigns for major advertisers, including Excedrin, Gillette, Coca-Cola, General Motors, Coppertone, and Maybelline. In all, Michaels' voice has appeared on over a billion dollars of paid advertising.\n\nHe moved to Miami, Florida in 1980, where he lived until his death.\n\nIn addition to ad campaigns for consumer products, Michaels provided creative services to many U.S. media companies. He created the NBC television program \"Friday Night Videos\" which debuted in 1983, serving as the original voice-over host until 1986. His voice also was heard on the network's late-night promos throughout the 1980s. In 1992, he became the worldwide voice of topical promotion for CNN as well as other cable networks. As narrator, Michaels appeared on the series \"National Geographic Explorer\" and on the documentary film \"Barcelona '92: 16 Days of Glory\". Michaels also served as the imaging voice for many television stations, including WBBM-TV in Chicago, WCBS-TV in New York City, and WCCO-TV in Minneapolis. In radio, he was the imaging voice for Chicago classic rock radio station WDRV, \"97.1 The Drive\", since its debut in March 2001.\n\nMichaels established a creative services company, American Voice Corporation, to provide voice imaging and related services to advertisers and radio and television stations. It produces and syndicates his national radio program \"The Deep End with Nick Michaels\" and its spinoff, \"Stories From The Deep End\", in the United States and New Zealand. On August 31, 2015, Michaels launched \"The Stories That Made the Music\", a daily one-minute feature series focusing on country music artists, hosted by him and distributed by Envision Networks.\n\nA well-respected figure in the broadcasting industry, Michaels has delivered keynote addresses at numerous conferences such as the Dan O'Day Creative Summit, The Conclave, the NAB Show, and RadioDays Scandinavia.\n\nMichaels is the author of the book \"The Manifesto For The Over Communicated World\".\n\nOn May 26, 2018, at the age of 67, Michaels died of a heart attack at his home in Miami.\n\nAccording to the official Facebook page of \"The Deep End with Nick Michaels\", the syndicated radio show will continue to air after Michaels' death until some affiliated stations go off the air.\n\n"}
{"id": "48573049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48573049", "title": "Oliver Harriman", "text": "Oliver Harriman\n\nOliver Harriman (September 16, 1829 – March 12, 1904) was an American businessman and member of the wealthy Harriman family.\n\nOliver Harriman was born on September 16, 1829 in New York City. His parents were Orlando Harriman (1790–1867) and Anne Ingland (1795–1853). He was the brother was Orlando Harriman, who was the father of Edward H. Harriman, railroad tycoon.\n\nHis grandfather, William Harriman, emigrated from England in 1795 and engaged successfully in trading and commercial pursuits.\n\nHarriman began his career in the dry goods commission house of McCurdy, Aldrich & Spencer. Later, with James Low, his father-in-law, Harriman co-founded Low, Harriman & Co., \"one of the best known and wealthiest\" dry goods firms in New York City.\n\nHarriman served on the Boards of Directors of Bank of America, the Guaranty Trust Company of New York (which later merged with J.P. Morgan & Co.), and the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York (later known as Mutual of New York).\n\nHarriman married Laura Low (1834–1901), the daughter of James Low, the founder of Low, Harriman & Co. They had five sons and three daughters who were prominent in New York and Westchester society:\n\n\nHe was the owner of a residence in Riverdale, Bronx.\n\nHarriman died on March 12, 1904 in Mount Kisco, New York. His estate was worth US$20 million. His will stipulated that his wife would inherit their house in Riverdale as well as US$500,000 annually, while his sister, Rosamond H. Owen, would receive US$25,000.\n\nHis granddaughter, Mary Bishop Harriman was married to Count Pierre Lecomte du Noüy (1883-1947).\n"}
{"id": "563047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563047", "title": "Oscar Hammerstein I", "text": "Oscar Hammerstein I\n\nOscar Hammerstein I (8 May 18461 August 1919) was a German-born businessman, theater impresario, and composer in New York City. His passion for opera led him to open several opera houses, and he rekindled opera's popularity in America. He was the grandfather of American lyricist Oscar Hammerstein II and the father of theater manager William Hammerstein and American producer Arthur Hammerstein.\n\nOscar Hammerstein I was born in Stettin (capital of the province of Pomerania), Kingdom of Prussia (now Szczecin, Poland), to German Jewish parents Abraham and Berthe Hammerstein. He took up the flute, piano, and violin at an early age. His mother died when he was fifteen years old. During his youth, Hammerstein's father wanted him to continue with his education, and to specialize in subjects such as algebra, but Hammerstein wanted to pursue music. After Oscar went skating in a park one day, his father found out and whipped him as punishment; this would spur Hammerstein to run away to North America. After selling his violin, Hammerstein ran away to Liverpool, and from there, took a three-month journey to the United States arriving in New York City in 1864.\n\nHammerstein made ends meet initially by working at a cigar factory on Pearl Street. He worked his way up to become a cigar maker himself, and also founded the \"U.S Tobacco Journal.\" Hammerstein would eventually become the owner of at least 80 patents, with most of them being related to the machines he made for the cigar-making process. Hammerstein's most well-known contribution to the cigar-making process is adding an air-suctioning component to the traditional cigar-making machines, and the component would hold down the tobacco leaves firmly so that they could be cut more cleanly.\n\nThe initial machine only sold for $6,000, but later reinventions would boost his machine's worth to around $200,000. Another invention that Hammerstein created was a more efficient plumbing system for his sink when it had leaked one night.\n\nHe also moonlighted as a theater manager in the downtown German theaters.\n\nHe became wealthy industrializing cigar manufacturing, and his tobacco fortune provided the money he used to pursue his theater interests.\n\nHammerstein built his first theater, the Harlem Opera House, on 125th Street in 1889, along with 50 housing developments. His second theater, the Columbus Theatre, was built in 1890 on the same street, featuring light theatrical productions.\n\nHis third theater was the first Manhattan Opera House, built in 1893 on 34th Street. This failed as an opera house and was used, in partnership with Koster and Bial, to present variety shows. Hammerstein was displeased with the partnership to the point that it fell into bitterness: \"When I get through with you, everybody will forget there ever was a Koster and Bial. I will build a house the likes of which has never been seen in the whole world.\".\n\nIn 1895 he opened a fourth venue, the Olympia Theatre, on Longacre Square, where he presented a comic opera that he wrote himself, \"Santa Maria\" (1896). While it was positively received by \"The New York Times\", Hammerstein's personal experience was less than peaceful, with the production being plagued by monetary issues with the cast and stage set. In the end, Hammerstein had profited only one-tenth of the costs that were put into the \"Santa Maria\" production.\n\nNine years later, Longacre Square was renamed Times Square, and the area had become, through his efforts, a thriving theater district.\n\nHammerstein built three more theaters there, the Victoria Theatre (1899), which turned to vaudeville presentation in 1904 and was managed by his son, Willie Hammerstein before closing in 1915; the Theatre Republic was built in 1900 and leased to eccentric producer David Belasco, in 1901, and the Lew Fields Theatre for Lew Fields (half of the Vaudeville team Weber and Fields, and the father of lyricist Dorothy Fields), in 1904. He wrote a musical called \"Punch, Judy & Co.\" in 1903. Hammerstein also opened Hammerstein's Paradise Roof Garden above the Victoria and Republic theatres.\n\nIn 1906, Hammerstein, dissatisfied with the Metropolitan Opera's productions, opened an eighth theater, his second Manhattan Opera House, to directly (and successfully) compete with it. He also opened the Philadelphia Opera House in 1908, which, however, he sold early in 1910.\n\nHe produced contemporary operas and presented the American premieres of \"Louise\", \"Pelleas et Melisande\", \"Elektra\", \"Le Jongleur de Notre-Dame\", \"Thaïs\", and \"Salome\", as well as the American debuts of Mary Garden and Luisa Tetrazzini. Since the star soprano Nellie Melba was disenchanted with the Metropolitan, she deserted it for Hammerstein's company, rescuing it financially with a successful season. He also produced the successful Victor Herbert operetta \"Naughty Marietta\" in 1910.\n\nHammerstein became famous during his opera years for putting noticeably large budgets out for his productions, \"Santa Maria\" being one example. More often than not, he would fall into financial trouble within a short period of time. \"The New York Times\" conducted an interview with Hammerstein, and when the interviewer asked him about his financial habits, Hammerstein responded:\n\nIn the end, Hammerstein's high-quality productions were ultimately too expensive to sustain, and by his fourth opera season, he was going bankrupt. The costs at the Metropolitan, too, were skyrocketing, as the Metropolitan spent more and more in order to effectively compete. Hammerstein's son Arthur negotiated a payment of $1.2 million from the Metropolitan in exchange for an agreement not to produce grand opera in the United States for 10 years.\n\nWith this money, Hammerstein built his tenth theater, the London Opera House, in London, where he again entered competition with an established opera house, Covent Garden's Royal Opera House. He had run through his money in two years and thereupon returned to America. During a trip to Paris, a special cable was sent to him out of curiosity asking whether he wanted to quit opera in New York, given that during his 1909-1910 opera seasons in New York and Philadelphia, Hammerstein had failed in successfully maintaining audiences in his two venues in each city. He simply responded by saying, \"[Opera in New York is] what I'm here for. I can't say anymore.\" \n\nWith money obtained selling the sole booking rights to the Victoria Theatre, he built his eleventh and final theatre, the \"Lexington Opera House.\" Unable to present opera there, he opened it as a movie theatre, selling it shortly thereafter. On April 28, 1910, Hammerstein officially ended producing opera, opting to solely focus on dramatic productions. All of his contracts and buildings of operation were turned over to the Metropolitan Opera Company.\n\nHammerstein's first wife was Rosa (Rose) Blau. After Rosa died, he married Melvina Jacobi. The marriage took place on December 7, 1879 in Montgomery, Alabama. Melvina's parents, Henrietta and Simon Jacobi, were Jews from Bavaria (Ingerheim) who settled in New Orleans, Louisiana and, later, Montgomery, Alabama. Melvina and Oscar had two daughters - Rose and Estella (Stella).\n\nLate in his career, Hammerstein experienced numerous legal troubles, most of them in regards to his opera houses. He went through many of them with an air of pride.\n\nOne of his more infamous accusations was from a Frances Lee, an opera singer, who accused him of preventing her from singing in the Manhattan Opera House after one performance. Hammerstein was found not guilty and settled his possible payment for up to $35.\n\nHammerstein had given his two daughters, Stella and Rose Hammerstein, $200 a week for financial support after the death of his first wife. The payments were given to them by the Equitable Trust Company securely in exchange for stock shares in Hammerstein's Victoria Theatre. In 1912, Hammerstein requested his stocks back from the company and chose to no longer pay for his daughters. Stella and Rose sought to fight against their father, who believed that they could support themselves on their own. Infamously, he compared paying his daughters to \"the eccentricities and actions of the late lamented King Lear.\"\n\nHammerstein contracted kidney problems and paralysis, eventually permanently falling into a coma. He died in 1919 in Lenox Hill Hospital at Park Avenue and 77th Street in Manhattan. His contractual ban on presenting opera was due to expire in 1920; at his death he was busy planning his return to the opera stage.\n\nThe Manhattan Opera House was bid for $145,000 by Hammerstein's two daughters. They would also sue Hammerstein's third wife, Emma Swift Hammerstein, over money and ownership of the building. Emma Hammerstein would go to court claiming ownership through Hammerstein Opera Company stock, but the stocks were found to be null and void by the judge.\n\nThe Manhattan Opera House on 34th Street in New York City was renamed the \"Hammerstein Ballroom\" at the Manhattan Center Studios in his honor.\n\n\nHammerstein had four sons, Abe, Harold, Arthur,Willie and two daughters: Stella and Rose. Arthur continued the family business as an opera and Broadway producer, director, theater owner, and songwriter. Willie managed Oscar's Victoria Theatre, and Willie's son Oscar Hammerstein II was one of Broadway's most influential lyricists and bookwriters, as well as a director and producer.\n"}
{"id": "21036045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21036045", "title": "Patrick Neary", "text": "Patrick Neary\n\nPatrick Neary was Financial Regulator at the time of Ireland's financial crash. At a public appearance before the country's Banking Inquiry in 2015, he admitted it was a mistake to print golf balls featuring the Regulator's logo. He also confirmed he told Taoiseach Brian Cowen, that all the country's banks were solvent on the night of 29 September 2008, when those same banks were guaranteed by the country's politicians. Economist David McWilliams has described Neary as \"the worst financial regulator the world has ever seen.\"\n"}
{"id": "29136076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29136076", "title": "Perspectives on capitalism by school of thought", "text": "Perspectives on capitalism by school of thought\n\nThroughout modern history, a variety of perspectives on capitalism have evolved based on different schools of thought.\n\nAdam Smith was one of the first influential writers on the topic with his book \"The Wealth of Nations\", which is generally considered to be the start of classical economics which emerged in the 18th century. To the contrary, Karl Marx considered capitalism to be a historically specific mode of production and considered capitalism a phase of economic development that would pass and be replaced by pure communism. In conjunction with his criticism of capitalism was Marx's belief that exploited labor would be the driving force behind a social revolution to a socialist-style economy. For Marx, this cycle of the extraction of the surplus value by the owners of capital or the bourgeoisie becomes the basis of class struggle.\n\nThis argument is intertwined with Marx's version of the labor theory of value asserting that labor is the source of all value and thus of profit. Max Weber considered market exchange rather than production as the defining feature of capitalism. In contrast to their counterparts in prior modes of economic activity, capitalist enterprises was their rationalization of production, directed toward maximizing efficiency and productivity; a tendency leading to a sociological process of enveloping rationalization. According to Weber, workers in pre-capitalist economic institutions understood work in terms of a personal relationship between master and journeyman in a guild, or between lord and peasant in a manor.\n\nMeanwhile institutional economics, once the main school of economic thought in the United States, holds that capitalism cannot be separated from the political and social system within which it is embedded. In the late 19th century, the German Historical School of economics diverged with the emerging Austrian School of economics, led at the time by Carl Menger. Later generations of followers of the Austrian School continued to be influential in Western economic thought through much of the 20th century. The Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a forerunner of the Austrian School of economics, emphasized the creative destruction of capitalism—the fact that market economies undergo constant change.\n\nThe Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek were among the leading defenders of market economy against 20th century proponents of socialist planned economies. Among Mises's arguments were the economic calculation problem, which was first proposed by Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good or service should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it. Mises and Hayek argued that only market capitalism could manage a complex, modern economy.\n\nPartially opposed to that view, the British economist John Maynard Keynes argued in his 1937 \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\" that capitalism suffered a basic problem in its ability to recover from periods of slowdowns in investment. Keynes argued that a capitalist economy could remain in an indefinite equilibrium despite high unemployment. Keynes tried to provide solutions to many of Marx’s problems without completely abandoning the classical understanding of capitalism. His work attempted to show that regulation can be effective and that economic stabilizers can rein in the aggressive expansions and recessions that Marx disliked.\n\nThese changes sought to create more stability in the business cycle and reduce the abuses of laborers. Keynesian economists argue that Keynesian policies were one of the primary reasons capitalism was able to recover following the Great Depression.\n\nSupply-side economics developed during the 1970s in response to Keynesian economic policy and in particular the failure of demand management to stabilize Western economies during the stagflation of the 1970s in the wake of the oil crisis in 1973. It drew on a range of non-Keynesian economic thought, particularly Austrian School thinking on entrepreneurship and new classical macroeconomics. The intellectual roots of supply-side economics have also been traced back to various early economic thinkers such as Ibn Khaldun, Jonathan Swift, David Hume, Adam Smith and Alexander Hamilton. Typical policy recommendations of supply-side economics are lower marginal tax rates and less regulation. Maximum benefits from taxation policy are achieved by optimizing the marginal tax rates to spur growth, although it is a common misunderstanding that supply side economics is concerned only with taxation policy when it is about removing barriers to production more generally.\n\nToday, the majority academic research on capitalism in the English-speaking world draws on neoclassical economic thought. It favors extensive market coordination and relatively neutral patterns of governmental market regulation aimed at maintaining property rights; deregulated labor markets; corporate governance dominated by financial owners of firms; and financial systems depending chiefly on capital market-based financing rather than state financing.\n\nMilton Friedman took many of the basic principles set forth by Adam Smith and the classical economists and gave them a new twist. One example of this is his article in the September 1970 issue of \"The New York Times\", where he claims that the social responsibility of business is \"to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits…(through) open and free competition without deception or fraud\". This is similar to Smith’s argument that self-interest in turn benefits the whole of society.\n\nWork like this helped lay the foundations for the coming marketization (or privatization) of state enterprises and the supply-side economics of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. The Chicago School of economics is best known for its free market advocacy and monetarist ideas. According to Friedman and other monetarists, market economies are inherently stable if left to themselves and depressions result only from government intervention.\n\nThe classical school of economic thought emerged in Britain in the late 18th century. The classical political economists Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Jean-Baptiste Say and John Stuart Mill published analyses of the production, distribution and exchange of goods in a market that have since formed the basis of study for most contemporary economists.\n\nIn France, Physiocrats like François Quesnay promoted free trade based on a conception that wealth originated from land. Quesnay's \"Tableau Économique\" (1759) described the economy analytically and laid the foundation of the Physiocrats' economic theory, followed by Anne Robert Jacques Turgot who opposed tariffs and customs duties and advocated free trade. Richard Cantillon defined long-run equilibrium as the balance of flows of income and argued that the supply and demand mechanism around land influenced short-term prices.\n\nSmith's attack on mercantilism and his reasoning for \"the system of natural liberty\" in \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776) are usually taken as the beginning of classical political economy. Smith devised a set of concepts that remain strongly associated with capitalism today, particularly his theory of the \"invisible hand\" of the market, through which the pursuit of individual self-interest unintentionally produces a collective good for society. It was necessary for Smith to be so forceful in his argument in favor of free markets because he had to overcome the popular mercantilist sentiment of the time period.\nHe criticized monopolies, tariffs, duties and other state enforced restrictions of his time and believed that the market is the most fair and efficient arbitrator of resources. This view was shared by David Ricardo, second most important of the classical political economists and one of the most influential economists of modern times.\n\nIn \"The Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\" (1817), Ricardo developed the law of comparative advantage, which explains why it is profitable for two parties to trade, even if one of the trading partners is more efficient in every type of economic production. This principle supports the economic case for free trade. Ricardo was a supporter of Say's law and held the view that full employment is the normal equilibrium for a competitive economy. He also argued that inflation is closely related to changes in quantity of money and credit and was a proponent of the law of diminishing returns, which states that each additional unit of input yields less and less additional output.\n\nThe values of classical political economy are strongly associated with the classical liberal doctrine of minimal government intervention in the economy, though it does not necessarily oppose the state's provision of a few basic public goods. Classical liberal thought has generally assumed a clear division between the economy and other realms of social activity, such as the state.\n\nKarl Marx considered capitalism to be a historically specific mode of production (the way in which the productive property is owned and controlled, combined with the corresponding social relations between individuals based on their connection with the process of production).\n\nFor Marx, the capitalist stage of development or \"bourgeois society\" represented the most advanced form of social organization to date, but he also thought that the working classes would come to power in a worldwide socialist or communist transformation of human society as the end of the series of first aristocratic, then capitalist and finally working class rule was reached.\nFollowing Adam Smith, Marx distinguished the use value of commodities from their exchange value in the market. According to Marx, capital is created with the purchase of commodities for the purpose of creating new commodities with an exchange value higher than the sum of the original purchases. For Marx, the use of labor power had itself become a commodity under capitalism because the exchange value of labor power—as reflected in the wage—is less than the value it produces for the capitalist.\n\nHe argues this difference in values constitutes surplus value, which the capitalists extract and accumulate. In his book \"\", Marx argues that the capitalist mode of production is distinguished by how the owners of capital extract this surplus from workers—all prior class societies had extracted surplus labor, but capitalism was new in doing so via the sale-value of produced commodities. He argues that a core requirement of a capitalist society is that a large portion of the population must not possess sources of self-sustenance that would allow them to be independent and must instead be compelled to survive to sell their labor for a living wage.\nIn conjunction with his criticism of capitalism was Marx's belief that exploited labor would be the driving force behind a revolution to a socialist-style economy. For Marx, this cycle of the extraction of the surplus value by the owners of capital or the bourgeoisie becomes the basis of class struggle. This argument is intertwined with Marx's version of the labor theory of value asserting that labor is the source of all value and thus of profit.\nIn \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism\" (1916), Vladimir Lenin modified classic Marxist theory and argued that capitalism necessarily induced monopoly capitalism—which he also called \"imperialism\"—to find new markets and resources, representing the last and highest stage of capitalism. Some 20th-century Marxian economists consider capitalism to be a social formation where capitalist class processes dominate, but are not exclusive.\n\nTo these thinkers, capitalist class processes are simply those in which surplus labor takes the form of surplus value, usable as capital whiles other tendencies for utilization of labor nonetheless exist simultaneously in existing societies where capitalist processes are predominant. However, other late Marxian thinkers argue that a social formation as a whole may be classed as capitalist if capitalism is the mode by which a surplus is extracted even if this surplus is not produced by capitalist activity as when an absolute majority of the population is engaged in non-capitalist economic activity.\n\nDavid Harvey extends Marxian thinking through which he theorizes the differential production of place, space and political activism under capitalism. He uses Marx’s theory of crisis to aid his argument that capitalism must have its \"fixes\", but that we cannot predetermine what fixes will be implemented, nor in what form they will be.\n\nThis idea of fix is suggestive and could mean fix as in stabilize, heal or solve, or as in a junky needing a fix—the idea of preventing feeling worse in order to feel better. In \"Limits to Capital\" (1982), Harvey outlines an overdetermined, spatially restless capitalism coupled with the spatiality of crisis formation and its resolution. Furthermore, his work has been central for understanding the contractions of capital accumulation and international movements of capitalist modes of production and money flows.\n\nIn his essay, \"Notes towards a theory of uneven geographical development\", Harvey examines the causes of the extreme volatility in contemporary political economic fortunes across and between spaces of the world economy. He bases this uneven development on four conditionalities, being the material embedding of capital accumulation processes in the web of socio-ecological life; accumulation by dispossession; the law-like character of capital accumulation in space and time; and political, social and \"class\" struggles at a variety of geographical scales.\n\nIn some social sciences, the understanding of the defining characteristics of capitalism has been strongly influenced by 19th century German social theorist Max Weber. Weber considered market exchange rather than production as the defining feature of capitalism. In contrast to their counterparts in prior modes of economic activity, capitalist enterprises are characterized by their rationalization of production, directed toward maximizing efficiency and productivity, a tendency leading to a sociological process of enveloping rationalization. According to Weber, workers in pre-capitalist economic institutions understood work in terms of a personal relationship between master and journeyman in a guild, or between lord and peasant in a manor.\n\nIn his book \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\" (1904–1905), Weber sought to trace how a particular form of religious spirit, infused into traditional modes of economic activity, was a condition of possibility of modern Western capitalism. For Weber, the spirit of capitalism was in general that of ascetic Protestantism—this ideology was able to motivate extreme rationalization of daily life, a propensity to accumulate capital by a religious ethic to advance economically and thus also the propensity to reinvest capital: this was sufficient then to create \"self-mediating capital\" as conceived by Marx.\n\nThis is pictured in Proverbs 22:29 \"Seest thou a man diligent in his calling? He shall stand before kings\" and in Colossians 3:23 \"Whatever you do, do your work heartily, as for the Lord rather than for men\". In the \"Protestant Ethic\", Weber further stated that \"moneymaking—provided it is done legally—is, within the modern economic order, the result and the expression of diligence in one’s calling\" and \"If God show you a way in which you may lawfully get more than in another way (without wrong to your soul or to any other), if you refuse this, and choose the less gainful way, you cross one of the ends of your calling, and you refuse to be God's steward, and to accept His gifts and use them for him when He requireth it: you may labour to be rich for God, though not for the flesh and sin\" (p. 108).\n\nMost generally for Weber, Western capitalism was the \"rational organization of formally free labor\". The idea of the \"formally free\" laborer meant in the double sense of Marx that the laborer was both free to own property and free of the ability to reproduce his labor power, i.e. was the victim of expropriation of his means of production. It is only on these conditions, still abundantly obvious in the modern world of Weber, that Western capitalism is able to exist.\n\nFor Weber, modern Western capitalism represented the order \"now bound to the technical and economic conditions of machine production which to-day determine the lives of all the individuals who are born into this mechanism, not only those directly concerned with economic acquisition, with irresistible force. Perhaps it will so determine them until the last ton of fossilized coal is burnt\" (p. 123). This is further seen in his criticism of \"specialists without spirit, hedonists without a heart\" that were developing in his opinion with the fading of the original Puritan \"spirit\" associated with capitalism.\n\nOnce the main school of economic thought in the United States, institutional economics holds that capitalism cannot be separated from the political and social system within which it is embedded. It emphasizes the legal foundations of capitalism (see John R. Commons) and the evolutionary, habituated and volitional processes by which institutions are erected and then changed (see John Dewey, Thorstein Veblen and Daniel Bromley).\n\nOne key figure in institutional economics was Thorstein Veblen who in his book \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (1899) analyzed the motivations of wealthy people in capitalism who conspicuously consumed their riches as a way of demonstrating success. The concept of conspicuous consumption was in direct contradiction to the neoclassical view that capitalism was efficient.\n\nIn \"The Theory of Business Enterprise\" (1904), Veblen distinguished the motivations of industrial production for people to use things from business motivations that used, or misused, industrial infrastructure for profit, arguing that the former is often hindered because businesses pursue the latter. Output and technological advance are restricted by business practices and the creation of monopolies. Businesses protect their existing capital investments and employ excessive credit, leading to depressions and increasing military expenditure and war through business control of political power.\n\nFrom the perspective of the German Historical School, capitalism is primarily identified in terms of the organization of production for markets. Although this perspective shares similar theoretical roots with that of Weber, its emphasis on markets and money lends it different focus. For followers of the German Historical School, the key shift from traditional modes of economic activity to capitalism involved the shift from medieval restrictions on credit and money to the modern monetary economy combined with an emphasis on the profit motive.\nIn the late 19th century, the German Historical School of economics diverged with the emerging Austrian School of economics, led at the time by Carl Menger. Later generations of followers of the Austrian School continued to be influential in Western economic thought through much of the 20th century. The Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a forerunner of the Austrian School of economics, emphasized the \"creative destruction\" of capitalism—the fact that market economies undergo constant change.\n\nAt any moment of time, posits Schumpeter, there are rising industries and declining industries. Schumpeter and many contemporary economists influenced by his work argue that resources should flow from the declining to the expanding industries for an economy to grow, but they recognized that sometimes resources are slow to withdraw from the declining industries because of various forms of institutional resistance to change.\n\nThe Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek were among the leading defenders of market economy against 20th century proponents of socialist planned economies. Mises and Hayek argued that only market capitalism could manage a complex, modern economy.\nAmong their arguments were the economic calculation problem, which was first proposed by Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good or service should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it. The price conveys embedded information about the abundance of resources as well as their desirability which in turn allows corrections that prevent shortages and surpluses on the basis of individual consensual decisions.\n\nMises and Hayek argued that this is the only possible solution and without the information provided by market prices socialism lacks a method to rationally allocate resources. Mises argued in a famous 1920 article \"Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth\" that the pricing systems in socialist economies were necessarily deficient because if government owned or controlled the means of production, then no rational prices could be obtained for capital goods as they were merely internal transfers of goods in a socialist system and not \"objects of exchange\", unlike final goods, therefore they were unpriced and hence the system would be necessarily inefficient since the central planners would not know how to allocate the available resources efficiently. This led him to declare \"that rational economic activity is impossible in a socialist commonwealth\". Mises developed his critique of socialism more completely in his 1922 book \"Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis\".\n\nSince a modern economy produces such a large array of distinct goods and services and consists of such a large array of consumers and enterprises, asserted Mises and Hayek, the information problems facing any other form of economic organization other than market capitalism would exceed its capacity to handle information. Thinkers within supply-side economics built on the work of the Austrian School and particularly emphasize Say's law that \"supply creates its own demand\". To this school, capitalism is defined by lack of state restraint on the decisions of producers.\n\nAustrian economists claim that Marx failed to make the distinction between capitalism and mercantilism. They argue that Marx conflated the imperialistic, colonialistic, protectionist and interventionist doctrines of mercantilism with capitalism.\n\nAustrian economics has been a major influence on some forms of right-libertarianism in which \"laissez-faire\" capitalism is considered to be the ideal economic system. It influenced economists and political philosophers and theorists including Henry Hazlitt, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, Israel Kirzner, Murray Rothbard, Walter Block and Richard M. Ebeling.\n\nIn his 1937 \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\", the British economist John Maynard Keynes argued that capitalism suffered a basic problem in its ability to recover from periods of slowdowns in investment. Keynes argued that a capitalist economy could remain in an indefinite equilibrium despite high unemployment.\n\nEssentially rejecting Say's law, he argued that some people may have a liquidity preference that would see them rather hold money than buy new goods or services, which therefore raised the prospect that the Great Depression would not end without what he termed in the \"General Theory\" \"a somewhat comprehensive socialization of investment\".\n\nKeynesian economics challenged the notion that \"laissez-faire\" capitalist economics could operate well on their own without state intervention used to promote aggregate demand, fighting high unemployment and deflation of the sort seen during the 1930s. He and his followers recommended \"pump-priming\" the economy to avoid recession: cutting taxes, increasing government borrowing and spending during an economic down-turn. This was to be accompanied by trying to control wages nationally partly through the use of inflation to cut real wages and to deter people from holding money.\nKeynes tried to provide solutions to many of Marx’s problems without completely abandoning the classical understanding of capitalism. His work attempted to show that regulation can be effective and that economic stabilizers can rein in the aggressive expansions and recessions that Marx disliked. These changes sought to create more stability in the business cycle and reduce the abuses of laborers. Keynesian economists argue that Keynesian policies were one of the primary reasons capitalism was able to recover following the Great Depression. However, the premises of Keynes’s work have since been challenged by neoclassical and supply-side economics and the Austrian School.\n\nAnother challenge to Keynesian thinking came from his colleague Piero Sraffa and subsequently from the Neo-Ricardian school that followed Sraffa. In Sraffa's highly technical analysis, capitalism is defined by an entire system of social relations among both producers and consumers, but with a primary emphasis on the demands of production. According to Sraffa, the tendency of capital to seek its highest rate of profit causes a dynamic instability in social and economic relations.\n\nSupply-side economics is a school of macroeconomic thought that argues that economic growth can be most effectively created by lowering barriers for people to produce (supply) goods and services, such as adjusting income tax and capital gains tax rates and by allowing greater flexibility by reducing regulation. Consumers will then benefit from a greater supply of goods and services at lower prices.\n\nThe term \"supply-side economics\" was thought for some time to have been coined by journalist Jude Wanniski in 1975, but according to Robert D. Atkinson's \"Supply-Side Follies\" the term \"supply side\" (\"supply-side fiscalists\") was first used in 1976 by Herbert Stein (a former economic adviser to President Nixon) and only later that year was this term repeated by Jude Wanniski. Its use connotes the ideas of economists Robert Mundell and Arthur Laffer. Today, supply-side economics is often conflated with the politically rhetorical term \"trickle-down economics\", but as Jude Wanniski points out in his book \"The Way The World Works\" trickle-down economics is conservative Keynesianism associated with the Republican Party.\nTypical policy recommendations of supply-side economics are lower marginal tax rates and less regulation. Maximum benefits from taxation policy are achieved by optimizing the marginal tax rates to spur growth, although it is a common misunderstanding that supply side economics is concerned only with taxation policy when it is about removing barriers to production more generally.\n\nMany early proponents argued that the size of the economic growth would be significant enough that the increased government revenue from a faster-growing economy would be sufficient to compensate completely for the short-term costs of a tax cut and that tax cuts could in fact cause overall revenue to increase.\n\nToday, the majority academic research on capitalism in the English-speaking world draws on neoclassical economic thought. It favors extensive market coordination and relatively neutral patterns of governmental market regulation aimed at maintaining property rights; deregulated labor markets; corporate governance dominated by financial owners of firms; and financial systems depending chiefly on capital market-based financing rather than state financing.\n\nMilton Friedman took many of the basic principles set forth by Adam Smith and the classical economists and gave them a new twist. One example of this is his article in the September 1970 issue of \"The New York Times\", where he claims that the social responsibility of business is \"to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits…(through) open and free competition without deception or fraud\". This is similar to Smith’s argument that self-interest in turn benefits the whole of society. Work like this helped lay the foundations for the coming marketization (or privatization) of state enterprises and the supply-side economics of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher.\n\nThe Chicago School of economics is best known for its free market advocacy and monetarist ideas. According to Friedman and other monetarists, market economies are inherently stable if left to themselves and depressions result only from government intervention.\nFriedman argued that the Great Depression was result of a contraction of the money supply controlled by the Federal Reserve and not by the lack of investment as John Maynard Keynes: \"There is likely to be a lag between the need for action and government recognition of the need; a further lag between recognition of the need for action and the taking of action; and a still further lag between the action and its effects\". Ben Bernanke, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among the economists today generally accepting Friedman's analysis of the causes of the Great Depression.\n\nNeoclassical economists, today the majority of economists, consider value to be subjective, varying from person to person and for the same person at different times and thus reject the labor theory of value. Marginalism is the theory that economic value results from marginal utility and marginal cost (the marginal concepts). These economists see capitalists as earning profits by forgoing current consumption, by taking risks, and by organizing production.\n\nMainstream economics is a loose term used to refer to the non-heterodox economics taught in prominent universities. It is most closely associated with neoclassical economics, or more precisely by the neoclassical synthesis, which combines neoclassical approach to microeconomics with Keynesian approach to macroeconomics.\n\nMainstream economists are not generally separated into schools, but two major contemporary orthodox economic schools of thought are the \"saltwater and freshwater schools\". The saltwater schools consist of the universities and other institutions located near the East and West Coast of the United States, such as Berkeley, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton, Columbia, Duke, Stanford and Yale. Freshwater schools include the University of Chicago, Carnegie Mellon University, the University of Rochester and the University of Minnesota. They were referred to as the \"freshwater school\" since Pittsburgh, Chicago, Rochester and Minneapolis are located nearer to the Great Lakes.\n\nThe Saltwater school is associated with Keynesian ideas of government intervention into the free market while the Freshwater schools are skeptical of the benefits of the government. Mainstream economists do not in general identify themselves as members of a particular school, but they may be associated with approaches within a field such as the rational-expectations approach to macroeconomics.\n\n"}
{"id": "45322740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45322740", "title": "Quote (magazine)", "text": "Quote (magazine)\n\nQuote is a Dutch magazine with editorial offices based in Amsterdam, notable for publishing the \"\", a list of the 500 wealthiest people in the Netherlands together with their relative financial position, similar to the list produced by \"Forbes\".\n\n\"Quote\" is published monthly and provides information about business, money, careers, networks and lives of people at the top. In December 1999, the magazine was named \"Magazine of the Year\" by the \"Nederlandse Uitgeversbond\" (Dutch Publishers Association). First published in November 1986, and named for a term for a stock price, \"Quote\" was sold by the founder, Maarten van den Biggelaar, and two friends to Hachette Filipacchi Médias (HFM) on July 21, 2006. Editor Jort Kelder then stepped down in April 2007 after more than thirteen years at the helm.\n\nIn November 2002, \"Quote\" published the first picture of real estate speculator Willem Endstra together with released felon Willem Holleeder, who had served a prison sentence as the convicted kidnapper of beer magnate Alfred Heineken. The two were sitting on a bench outside Endstra's offices in the Amsterdam Oud-Zuid borough. Endstra, who had always denied his links with the underworld, filed for a preliminary injunction demanding that \"Quote\" be withdrawn from sale. He said he feared for his safety. Initially, his claim was upheld, but a few days later the injunction was overturned. Endstra was murdered two years later, and Holleeder was reimprisoned after having been convicted on a charge of extortion.\n\nIn November 2003, the editor of \"Quote\" was shot; the culprit was never found. A few days earlier, the home of Van den Biggelaar was shot at as well.\n\nIn January 2005, \"Quote\" was in the headlines with a claim that in 1998, Nina Brink, the founder of World Online, a Dutch Internet service provider, had been involved in a premeditated sex scandal and was forced to resign. Brink announced that she would take legal action, but failed to bring a lawsuit. A declaration that she subsequently filed with the Amsterdam public prosecutor to support her libel claim was declared inadmissible in May due to the lack of solid legal basis.\n\nOn 1 November 2011, Mirjam van den Broeke succeeded Sjoerd van Stokkum as the new editor. Former editor Jort Kelder temporarily returned to the business magazine as advisor to the new editor. Since November 2016 Sander Schimmelpenninck has been the editor.\n\nTotal paid circulation, as verified by \"Het Oplage Instituut\" (HOI), the Dutch institute for media auditing, affiliated with Audit Bureau of Circulations\n\n"}
{"id": "4561754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561754", "title": "Resource-based view", "text": "Resource-based view\n\nThe resource-based view (RBV) is a managerial framework used to determine the strategic resources with the potential to deliver comparative advantage to a firm. These resources can be exploited by the firm in order to achieve sustainable competitive advantage.\n\nBarney's 1991 article \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" is widely cited as a pivotal work in the emergence of the resource-based view. However, some scholars argue that there was evidence for a fragmentary resource-based theory from the 1930s. RBV proposes that firms are heterogeneous because they possess heterogeneous resources, meaning firms can have different strategies because they have different resource mixes.\n\nThe RBV focuses managerial attention on the firm's internal resources in an effort to identify those assets, capabilities and competencies with the potential to deliver superior competitive advantages.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the \"resource-based view\" (also known as the \"resource-advantage theory\") of the firm became the dominant paradigm in strategic planning. RBV can be seen as a reaction against the positioning school and its somewhat prescriptive approach which focused managerial attention on external considerations, notably industry structure. The so-called positioning school had dominated the discipline throughout the 1980s. In contrast, the emergent resource-based view argued that the source of sustainable advantage derives from doing things in a superior manner; by developing superior capabilities and resources. Jay Barney's article, \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" (1991), is seen as pivotal in the emergence of the resource-based view. \n\nA number of scholars point out that a fragmentary resource-based perspective was evident from the 1930s, noting that Barney was heavily influenced by Wernerfelt's earlier work which introduced the idea of resource position barriers being roughly analogous to entry barriers in the positioning school. Other scholars suggest that the resource-based view represents a new paradigm, albeit with roots in \"Ricardian and Penrosian economic theories according to which firms can earn sustainable supranormal returns if, and only if, they have superior resources and those resources are protected by some form of isolating mechanism precluding their diffusion throughout the industry.\" While its exact influence is debated, Edith Penrose's 1959 book \"The Theory of the Growth of the Firm\" is held by two scholars of strategy to state many concepts that would later influence the modern, resource-based theory of the firm.\n\nThe RBV is an interdisciplinary approach that represents a substantial shift in thinking. The resource-based view is interdisciplinary in that it was developed within the disciplines of economics, ethics, law, management, marketing, supply chain management and general business. \n\nRBV focuses attention on an organisation's internal resources as a means of organising processes and obtaining a competitive advantage. Barney stated that for resources to hold potential as sources of sustainable competitive advantage, they should be valuable, rare, imperfectly imitable and not substitutable (now generally known as \"VRIN\" criteria). The resource-based view suggests that organisations must develop unique, firm-specific core competencies that will allow them to outperform competitors by doing things differently.\n\nAlthough the literature presents many different ideas around the concept of the resource-advantage perspective, at its heart, the common theme is that the firm's resources are financial, legal, human, organisational, informational and relational; resources are heterogeneous and imperfectly mobile and that management's key task is to understand and organise resources for sustainable competitive advantage. Key theorists who have contributed to the development of a coherent body of literature include Jay B. Barney, George S. Day, Gary Hamel, Shelby D. Hunt, G. Hooley and C.K. Prahalad.\n\nAchieving a sustainable competitive advantage lies at the heart of much of the literature in both strategic management and strategic marketing. The resource-based view offers strategists a means of evaluating potential factors that can be deployed to confer a competitive edge. A key insight arising from the resource-based view is that not all resources are of equal importance, nor possess the potential to become a source of sustainable competitive advantage. The sustainability of any competitive advantage depends on the extent to which resources can be imitated or substituted. Barney and others point out that understanding the causal relationship between the sources of advantage and successful strategies can be very difficult in practice. Thus, a great deal of managerial effort must be invested in identifying, understanding and classifying core competencies. In addition, management must invest in organisational learning to develop, nurture and maintain key resources and competencies.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation.\n\nThe key managerial tasks are:\n\n1) Identify the firm’s potential key resources.\n\n2) Evaluate whether these resources fulfill the following criteria (also known as \"VRIN\" criteria:\n\n\n3) Develop, nurture and protect resources that pass these evaluations.\n\nGiven the centrality of resources in terms of conferring competitive advantage, the management and marketing literature carefully defines and classifies resources and capabilities.\n\nBarney defines firm resources as: \"all assets, capabilities, organizational processes, firm attributes, information, knowledge, etc. controlled by a firm that enable the firm to conceive of and implement strategies that improve its efficiency and effectiveness” \n\nCapabilities are “a special type of resource, specifically an organizationally embedded non-transferable firm-specific resource whose purpose is to improve the productivity of the other resources possessed by the firm.” \n\nBarney defined a competitive advantage as \"when [a firm] is able to implement a “value creating strategy not simultaneously being implemented by any current or potential competitors.”\n\nFirm-based resources may be tangible or intangible.\n\nFirms in possession of a resource, or mix of resources that are rare among competitors, are said to have a \"comparative advantage.\" This comparative advantage enables firms to produce marketing offerings that are either (a) perceived as having superior value or (b) can be produced at lower costs. Therefore, a comparative advantage in resources can lead to a competitive advantage in market position.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation. Hooley et al. suggest the following classification of competitive positions:\n\nA number of criticisms of RBV have been widely cited, and are as follows:\n\n\nOther criticisms include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39564674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39564674", "title": "Said Khoury", "text": "Said Khoury\n\nSaid Tawfiq Khoury (‎) (June 6, 1923 - October 15, 2014) was a prominent Palestinian Christian entrepreneur and philanthropist. He was one of the three founders of Consolidated Contractors Company, currently based in Athens. Khoury set up the business with his cousin Hasib Sabbagh in Beirut in 1952.\n\nCCC is the largest construction company in the Middle East and ranks among the top 25 international contractors with a revenue of 5.3 billion USD in 2013. CCC has offices and projects in over 40 countries, and a workforce of more than 130,000 employees. Khoury who is listed as a billionaire by Forbes is ranked 10th on the Arabian Business world's richest Arabs in 2013. Over the past few years, Khoury dedicated most of his time to the organisation he founded, The Bethlehem Development Foundation that aims to rejuvenate the birthplace of Jesus Christ Bethlehem in Palestine, a holy city for Muslims and Christians alike.\n\nKhoury was born in Safed, Palestine in 1923. He was nourished in an atmosphere of strong family ties, pervasive moral influence, and a deep sense of ethnic and cultural diversity. After attending St. Luke's School in Haifa, he followed his cousin Hasib Sabbagh to Lebanon in order to study in the American University of Beirut, where both of them graduated from the faculty of engineering. Upon returning home, each of them founded a small construction company in Palestine.\n\nAfter the establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, both men fled back again, this time with their families, to the capital of Lebanon, Beirut, where they began working on construction projects. Said and Sabbagh's first task was in the Tripoli airport. Khoury said they were motivated by the catastrophic expulsion from their homeland.\n\nIn the early 1950s a contract to construct a storage yard for oil pipes in Homs for the Iraq Petroleum Company introduced the young engineers to the world's largest construction company of that time, the Bechtel Group. The connection remained solid for many years, spearheading the CCC's extraordinary transformation from a small subcontracting construction company into the international giant it is today\n\nSaid has three sons and two daughters, from which he has fourteen grandchildren. While Said remains as the president of the CCC, his sons alongside the sons on Sabbagh are also at the helm of company.\n\nHe was a significant supporter of philanthropic activities in Palestine.\n\nSaid Khoury held a Legion of Merit from the President of Lebanese Republic and a Legion of Unity from the President of the Republic of Yemen. He held as well as many other Medals of Merit and Honour from different parts of the World.\n\nSaid has sponsored the establishment of the Said Khoury Information Technology Center of Excellence (SKITCE) at Al-Quds University in Abu Dis.\nKhoury received the HCEF Palestinian Diaspora Award given to individuals who have sustained commitment to revitalize Palestinian culture.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1774164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1774164", "title": "San Francisco Ferry Building", "text": "San Francisco Ferry Building\n\nThe San Francisco Ferry Building is a terminal for ferries that travel across the San Francisco Bay, a food hall and an office building. It is located on The Embarcadero in San Francisco, California.\n\nOn top of the building is a clock tower with four clock dials, each in diameter, which can be seen from Market Street, a main thoroughfare of the city.\n\nDesigned in 1892 by American architect A. Page Brown in the Beaux Arts style, the ferry building was completed in 1898. At its opening, it was the largest project undertaken in the city up to that time. Brown designed the clock tower after the 12th-century Giralda bell tower in Seville, Spain, and the entire length of the building on both frontages is based on an arched arcade.\n\nWith decreased use since the 1950s, after bridges were constructed carry transbay traffic and most streetcar routes were converted to buses, the building was adapted to office use and its public spaces broken up. In 2002, a restoration and renovation were undertaken to redevelop the entire complex. The Great Nave was restored, together with its height and materials. A marketplace was created on the ground floor, the former baggage handling area. The second and third floors were adapted for office and Port Commission use. During daylight, on every full and half-hour, the clock bell chimes portions of the Westminster Quarters. The ferry terminal is a designated San Francisco landmark and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nOpened in 1898, the building replaced a wooden predecessor constructed on the same site in 1875. The well built reinforced building with its arched arcades survived both the 1906 and the 1989 earthquakes with little damage. It served as the destination for commuters to San Francisco from the East Bay, who rode the ferry fleets of the Southern Pacific and the Key System. In the afternoon, they caught ferries returning across the bay. A loop track in front of the building enabled convenient transfers to streetcars. A large pedestrian bridge spanned the Embarcadero in front of the Ferry building to facilitate safe crossing of the busy plaza and transit hub. In the 1940s, the bridge was dismantled to supply scrap metal for the Second World War.\n\nUntil the completion of the Bay Bridge (which began to carry railroad traffic) and Golden Gate Bridge in the 1930s, the Ferry Building was the second busiest transit terminal in the world, second only to London's Charing Cross Station. After the bridges opened, and the new Key System trains began running to the East Bay from the Transbay Terminal in 1939, passenger ferry use fell sharply. In the second half of the 20th century, although the Ferry Building and its clock tower remained a part of the San Francisco skyline, the condition of the building interior declined with changes. Beginning in the 1950s, unsympathetic renovations installed a mezzanine level, broke up the grand space of the Great Nave, and partitioned the ticketing counters and waiting room areas into office space. The formerly grand public space was reduced to a narrow and dark corridor, through which travelers passed en route to the piers. Passengers were made to wait for ferries on outdoor benches, and the ticketing booths were moved to the pier.\nIn the late 1950s, the Embarcadero Freeway was built, which passed right in front of the Ferry Building, and views of the once-prominent landmark were greatly obscured from Market Street. Pedestrian access was treated as an afterthought, and the public was cut off from the waterfront.\n\nMarket Street Railway services terminated at a loop in front of the building prior to the construction of the Transbay Terminal. The last streetcars ran on July 2, 1949.\n\nWith the structural failure of the Embarcadero Freeway during the October 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, San Francisco was offered the choice of whether to rebuild it or remove the freeway and reconnect the city with the eastern waterfront and the historic Ferry Building. As part of the larger rejection of the 1950s comprehensive freeway plan as unsympathetic to the city's character, and the general unpopularity of the freeway, Mayor Art Agnos led the charge to remove the Embarcadero freeway entirely. It was replaced with a ground-level boulevard, which reconnected a significant portion of San Francisco's waterfront and the rest of the city. Access was restored to Justin Herman Plaza and the foot of Market Street, of which the Ferry Building had been an integral part for so many decades.\n\nBy 1992, the freeway had been removed and San Francisco began to create a comprehensive port development plan that would revitalize the newly cleared space, create public access, and reintroduce the ferry service. As the most iconic element of the waterfront, the Ferry Building was central to the aesthetic and the overall success of the development plan, and its status as a historic landmark for both architecture and engineering made a sympathetic restoration essential. The 1903 Ferry Building was a symbol of San Francisco's history as a bustling port city, but with the redevelopment plan, the city was choosing to also make the structure a symbol of San Francisco's future.\n\nThe vastness of the project resulted in the selection of a group of firms that could each focus on a key aspect of the redevelopment plan. ROMA Design Group—site design architects—designed the bayside and cityside promenades and plazas and reoriented the public spaces of the area to the building and to the bay. ROMA Design Group also designed new ferry terminals and the main historic streetcar stop that re-established the area as a multi-modal transit hub and gateway into the city. Simon Martin-Vegue Winkelstein Moris Architects (SMWM), founded by Cathy Simon, created an overall plan for the building; Baldauf Catton Von Eckartsberg Architects (BCVE) examined and planned for the needs of new retail spaces; Page & Turnbull, specialists in historic preservation, dealt with the restoration, replacement, and recreation of the historic elements of the structure.\n\nAlthough the project was a restoration project, the structure would not be returned to its pure historic use as a nexus of bay transit. While the demand for ferry transit has experienced increasing demand in recent years by cross-bay commuters, the ferry service will never again reach historic levels. Therefore, in order to draw visitors, the Ferry Building has been transformed into a retail and restaurant space on the ground floor that focuses on local, sustainable products. The Port and the project developers believed that the combination of transit, office use, and unique retail would make the Ferry Building a destination for locals and tourists alike that would drive the greater goal of stimulating the waterfront.\n\nThe focus on creating a viable economic use for the Ferry Building was fundamental in developing the final restoration plan and while important historic features that are key to the structure's integrity were largely restored, some adaptations were allowed more license to meet the needs of the reuse proposal. The restored Ferry Building was opened in 2003. The lead developer was Equity Office. Equity Office was acquired by The Blackstone Group in 2007.\n\nThe present structure was designed in 1892 by A. Page Brown, a New York architect who had started with McKim, Mead & White and later moved to California. Influenced by studies at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, he designed the clock tower after the 12th-century Giralda bell tower in Seville, Spain.\n\nBrown designed it to satisfy needs of an industrial society in high style associated with traditional buildings; the entire base is an arched arcade reminiscent of European buildings. The highest quality materials were used, such as marble and mosaics for the state seal. The Great Nave on the second floor was the major public space for arriving and departing ferry passengers.\n\nThe original description of the Ferry Building as published in the \"Board of Harbor Commissioners' Biennial Report\" (1888) specified that \"Passengers should pass from the upper decks of the ferries through the second story, with a bridge over the crowded and dangerous portion of East [now Embarcadero] Street.\" The first floor was not intended for public viewing or access and was filled with the movement of baggage, mail, and freight. Instead, the public was meant to enter the structure from an elevated walkway and move through the more refined spaces of the second floor lit by the nave. By 1992, the nave had been turned into private offices and the loss of the foot bridge meant that all public approach to the building would be at street level, altering the way in which the building was understood and experienced.\n\nWith the restoration however, the developers argued that the public's historic interaction with the space was defined by the natural light cascading from the nave, not by the elevated entry way. With the movement of the primary public space to the first floor, it became essential to their proposal that this historic experience would be recreated. Beyond removing an added third floor and restoring the nave to its two-story height, the proposal included cutting two openings, each at , into the floor of the second level. These openings would allow for this historic feature to be extended to the visitor's experience of the first floor. This was a controversial choice, and due to the building's historic status, the proposal had to be approved by the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO); this was the subject of multiple hearings.\n\nThe greatest debate raised by the opening of the second floor cuts, however, surrounded the treatment of the historic mosaic tiling of the second floor. The second floor Grand Nave was tiled with a mosaic marble floor of white and gray tesserae with a border of red and purple. In the center of the space at the top of the main stairway is a reproduction of the Great Seal of the State of California worked entirely in mosaics. At the time of the restoration, this surface was primarily covered with linoleum, and some small sections had been lost to prior alterations. This feature was considered integral to the historic character of the building, and as a primary public space, the tiling was a key component of community memory.\n\nIn allowing the amplification of one feature (the nave), the loss of another (the mosaics) was inherently tied. The final agreement reached between the SHPO and the development team found that as long as the important decorative portions of the flooring were restored and extra tesserae would be used to repair damaged sections, the cuts would be approved.\n\nIn order to restore the mosaic, the applied linoleum surface had to be carefully peeled away and a mixture of crushed walnut shells was then used to clean the marble surface without damaging the material.\n\nIn the process of removing of the 1947 and 1950 third-floor additions, Page & Turnbull discovered the extent of the damage to the brick and terra cotta arches of the nave. Twenty-two arches span the length of the nave on each side, and of the 44 total, 11 had been destroyed. Over 25 percent of the original material had been removed in the first remodel, including terra cotta scroll-work, the arches themselves, and sections of the surrounding brickwork. In order to restore the highly significant nave, Page & Turnbull had to design and create replacements for these 11 arches that would be accurate enough not to detract from the sight line of the second story that these arches flank.\n\nThe prohibitive cost and effort of replacing these materials in kind led to the choice of a cast-stone with fiberglass support that mimics the buff brick in both color and finish. Through the use of a cast material, Page & Turnbull was able to create a fiberglass mold to be used for casting each arch as a unit that could then be inserted into sections where original fabric had been lost. The addition of fiberglass as a support material—that allows for both flexibility and compressive strength—was seen as an added benefit in meeting concerns over the building's continued seismic safety.\n\nCreating visual continuity between the new and the old was critical in this instance due to the significance of the long stretch of the nave; here an obvious alteration in material or color would detract from the pattern of springing arches that continues through the length of the structure. Page & Turnbull invited faux-finishing specialist Jacquelyn Giuffre to disguise the new sections and recreate the continuity of pattern and color. Guiffre's job was made more difficult by the fact that the structure had not been completely sealed against the elements during the restoration and the salts of the bay air triggered a staining process that created green marks in the yellow and buff brick. In order to match the texture and patina of the old brick, Guiffre used six different pigments applied by hand, and then applied green shading to mimic the new staining process. Once the pieces were installed, a final stage of blending was completed on site to ensure the greatest possible accuracy.\n\nThe original clock mechanism was refurbished in 2000; it is complete and intact, despite two previous modifications. The Ferry Building has its original Special #4 clock made in 1898 by the Boston clock maker E. Howard. It is the largest wind-up, mechanical dial clock in the world. The four dials are each in diameter, and a portion of the dial appears to be back-lit at night. This is the effect of two concentric dials on each clock face, in which the inner dial is lit and visible at night.\n\nAlthough the hands and a small portion of the works are now powered by an accurate electric motor, the entire clock mechanism is still there. The huge weight hangs in its shaft; once wound, it formerly kept the clock running for eight days. The pendulum also remains, but it is motionless, replaced by more modern, reliable, and accurate electric power. There is also a set of horn loudspeakers above the clock that play Westminster Chimes on the hour and makes a loud siren noise every Tuesday at noon on the hour.\n\nThe Ferry Building is the primary San Francisco terminal for commuter ferry service. (Service to Pier 41 by Blue & Gold Fleet and other operators is primarily for excursions rather than commuting.) The building has four ferry piers lettered Gate B through Gate E. Gate B, used by the San Francisco Bay Ferry Vallejo/Mare Island route, is adjacent to the north end of the building. Gates C and D are the Golden Gate Ferry Terminal, located on a larger wharf near the center of the Ferry Building. They are used by Golden Gate Ferry service on the Sausalito, Tiburon, and Larkspur routes. Gate E is located south of the south end of the building; it is used by San Francisco Bay Ferry services on the Oakland/Alameda and Alameda Harbor Bay routes. Privately-run service to Berkeley docks at Pier 1 to the north.\n\nThe Golden Gate Ferry Terminal, which is located on a wharf built in the late 1960s as part of the Transbay Tube, opened with the introduction of Golden Gate Ferry in 1976. Vallejo service was added in September 1986. When emergency ferry service was added after the 1989 earthquake, Alameda service docked between Pier 7 and Pier 9, Berkeley service docked at Pier 1, and all other service used the existing Ferry Building piers. Berkeley and Richmond service ended in March 1990, but Oakland/Alameda service continued, with Harbor Bay service added in March 1992. These services used a new pier constructed north of the Ferry Building at Pier (adjacent to Pier 1). The modern Gate B and Gate E opened in October 2001 as part of the larger renovation of the Ferry Building.\n\nSan Francisco Municipal Railway's E Embarcadero and F Market & Wharves heritage railway lines have a station located on the pedestrian plaza in front of the Ferry Building.\n\nIn addition, the main line of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system runs under the building. The dock area on the eastern side is used as the transition point from the Transbay Tube to the Market Street Subway. The Embarcadero Station a block away is a BART and Muni Metro station; it connects the terminal with the city, East Bay and Peninsula.\n\nThe terminal is also served by Vallejo Baylink buses (operated by SolTrans).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5209807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209807", "title": "Slowly changing dimension", "text": "Slowly changing dimension\n\nDimensions in data management and data warehousing contain relatively static data about such entities as geographical locations, customers, or products. Data captured by Slowly Changing Dimensions (SCDs) change slowly but unpredictably, rather than according to a regular schedule.\n\nSome scenarios can cause Referential integrity problems.\n\nFor example, a database may contain a fact table that stores sales records. This fact table would be linked to dimensions by means of foreign keys. One of these dimensions may contain data about the company's salespeople: e.g., the regional offices in which they work. However, the salespeople are sometimes transferred from one regional office to another. For historical sales reporting purposes it may be necessary to keep a record of the fact that a particular sales person had been assigned to a particular regional office at an earlier date, whereas that sales person is now assigned to a different regional office.\n\nDealing with these issues involves SCD management methodologies referred to as Type 0 through 6. Type 6 SCDs are also sometimes called Hybrid SCDs.\n\nThe Type 0 dimension attributes never change and are assigned to attributes that have durable values or are described as 'Original'. Examples: \"Date of Birth\", \"Original Credit Score\". Type 0 applies to most Date Dimension attributes\n\nThis methodology overwrites old with new data, and therefore does not track historical data.\n\nExample of a supplier table:\nIn the above example, Supplier_Code is the natural key and Supplier_Key is a surrogate key. Technically, the surrogate key is not necessary, since the row will be unique by the natural key (Supplier_Code). However, to optimize performance on joins use integer rather than character keys (unless the number of bytes in the character key is less than the number of bytes in the integer key).\n\nIf the supplier relocates the headquarters to Illinois the record would be overwritten:\n\nThe disadvantage of the Type 1 method is that there is no history in the data warehouse. It has the advantage however that it's easy to maintain.\n\nIf one has calculated an aggregate table summarizing facts by state, it will need to be recalculated when the Supplier_State is changed.\n\nThis method tracks historical data by creating multiple records for a given natural key in the dimensional tables with separate surrogate keys and/or different version numbers. Unlimited history is preserved for each insert.\n\nFor example, if the supplier relocates to Illinois the version numbers will be incremented sequentially:\nAnother method is to add 'effective date' columns.\nThe null End_Date in row two indicates the current tuple version. In some cases, a standardized surrogate high date (e.g. 9999-12-31) may be used as an end date, so that the field can be included in an index, and so that null-value substitution is not required when querying.\n\nAnd a third method uses an effective date and a current flag.\nThe Current_Flag value of 'Y' indicates the current tuple version.\n\nTransactions that reference a particular surrogate key (Supplier_Key) are then permanently bound to the time slices defined by that row of the slowly changing dimension table. An aggregate table summarizing facts by state continues to reflect the historical state, i.e. the state the supplier was in at the time of the transaction; no update is needed. To reference the entity via the natural key, it is necessary to remove the unique constraint making Referential integrity by DBMS impossible.\n\nIf there are retroactive changes made to the contents of the dimension, or if new attributes are added to the dimension (for example a Sales_Rep column) which have different effective dates from those already defined, then this can result in the existing transactions needing to be updated to reflect the new situation. This can be an expensive database operation, so Type 2 SCDs are not a good choice if the dimensional model is subject to change.\n\nThis method tracks changes using separate columns and preserves limited history. The Type 3 preserves limited history as it is limited to the number of columns designated for storing historical data. The original table structure in Type 1 and Type 2 is the same but Type 3 adds additional columns. In the following example, an additional column has been added to the table to record the supplier's original state - only the previous history is stored.\n\nThis record contains a column for the original state and current state—cannot track the changes if the supplier relocates a second time.\n\nOne variation of this is to create the field Previous_Supplier_State instead of Original_Supplier_State which would track only the most recent historical change.\n\nThe Type 4 method is usually referred to as using \"history tables\", where one table keeps the current data, and an additional table is used to keep a record of some or all changes. Both the surrogate keys are referenced in the Fact table to enhance query performance.\n\nFor the above example, the original table name is Supplier and the history table is Supplier_History.\n\nThis method resembles how database audit tables and change data capture techniques function.\n\nReserved for future expansion.\n\nThe Type 6 method combines the approaches of types 1, 2 and 3 (1 + 2 + 3 = 6). One possible explanation of the origin of the term was that it was coined by Ralph Kimball during a conversation with Stephen Pace from Kalido. Ralph Kimball calls this method \"Unpredictable Changes with Single-Version Overlay\" in \"The Data Warehouse Toolkit\".\n\nThe Supplier table starts out with one record for our example supplier:\nThe Current_State and the Historical_State are the same. The optional Current_Flag attribute indicates that this is the current or most recent record for this supplier.\n\nWhen Acme Supply Company moves to Illinois, we add a new record, as in Type 2 processing, however a row key is included to ensure we have a unique key for each row:\nWe overwrite the Current_Flag information in the first record (Row_Key = 1) with the new information, as in Type 1 processing. We create a new record to track the changes, as in Type 2 processing. And we store the history in a second State column (Historical_State), which incorporates Type 3 processing.\n\nFor example, if the supplier were to relocate again, we would add another record to the Supplier dimension, and we would overwrite the contents of the Current_State column:\n\nIn many Type 2 and Type 6 SCD implementations, the surrogate key from the dimension is put into the fact table in place of the natural key when the fact data is loaded into the data repository. The surrogate key is selected for a given fact record based on its effective date and the Start_Date and End_Date from the dimension table. This allows the fact data to be easily joined to the correct dimension data for the corresponding effective date.\n\nHere is the Supplier table as we created it above using Type 6 Hybrid methodology:\n\nOnce the Delivery table contains the correct Supplier_Key, it can easily be joined to the Supplier table using that key. The following SQL retrieves, for each fact record, the current supplier state and the state the supplier was located in at the time of the delivery:\nHaving a Type 2 surrogate key for each time slice can cause problems if the dimension is subject to change.\n\nA pure Type 6 implementation does not use this, but uses a Surrogate Key for each master data item (e.g. each unique supplier has a single surrogate key).\n\nThis avoids any changes in the master data having an impact on the existing transaction data.\n\nIt also allows more options when querying the transactions.\n\nHere is the Supplier table using the pure Type 6 methodology:\nThe following example shows how the query must be extended to ensure a single supplier record is retrieved for each transaction.\nA fact record with an effective date (Delivery_Date) of August 9, 2001 will be linked to Supplier_Code of ABC, with a Supplier_State of 'CA'. A fact record with an effective date of October 11, 2007 will also be linked to the same Supplier_Code ABC, but with a Supplier_State of 'IL'.\n\nWhile more complex, there are a number of advantages of this approach, including:\n\n\nThe following example shows how a specific date such as '2012-01-01 00:00:00' (which could be the current datetime) can be used.\n\nAn alternative implementation is to place \"both\" the surrogate key and the natural key into the fact table. This allows the user to select the appropriate dimension records based on:\n\nThis method allows more flexible links to the dimension, even if one has used the Type 2 approach instead of Type 6.\n\nHere is the Supplier table as we might have created it using Type 2 methodology:\nThe following SQL retrieves the most current Supplier_Name and Supplier_State for each fact record:\nIf there are multiple dates on the fact record, the fact can be joined to the dimension using another date instead of the primary effective date. For instance, the Delivery table might have a primary effective date of Delivery_Date, but might also have an Order_Date associated with each record.\n\nThe following SQL retrieves the correct Supplier_Name and Supplier_State for each fact record based on the Order_Date:\nSome cautions:\n\nDifferent SCD Types can be applied to different columns of a table. For example, we can apply Type 1 to the Supplier_Name column and Type 2 to the Supplier_State column of the same table.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20635416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20635416", "title": "Stewardship theory", "text": "Stewardship theory\n\nStewardship theory is a theory that managers, left on their own, will act as responsible stewards of the assets they control.\n\nStewardship theorists assume that given a choice between self-serving behavior and pro-organizational behavior, a steward will place higher value on cooperation than defection. Stewards are assumed to be collectivists, pro-organizational, and trustworthy.\n\nIn American politics, an example of the stewardship theory is where a president practices a governing style based on belief, they have the duty to do whatever is necessary in national interest, unless prohibited by the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "25063059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25063059", "title": "Turnaround ADR", "text": "Turnaround ADR\n\n, also known as Business Revitalization ADR, is a process increasingly used by companies in Japan to adjust their debt. This out-of-court procedure was established in Japan in 2007 and is based on Japanese Law, specifically the Special Measures Law for Industrial Revitalization and Rebirth of Japan. It allows companies to forgo bankruptcy proceedings and replaces previous voluntary debt adjustments under such as the \"Guideline for Voluntary Debt Adjustment\" (Shiteki Seiri Guideline).\n\nAlthough the procedure is named using the generic alternative dispute resolution title, Turnaround ADR is not a procedure for resolving disputes. Rather, it offers a way for financially stressed companies to reassess and restructure debts.\n\nWhen a Turnaround ADR is applied, the debtor can maintain payment to business partners and customers. Only claims held by financial institutions participating in this procedure become subject to adjustment; if the relevant institutions reach consensus, the debts can be minimized.\n\nTurnaround ADR is frequently misunderstood in the United States and other Western nations because no equivalent procedure exists there. Applying for or initiating a Turnaround ADR is not considered a default triggering event. Rather, adopting a Turnaround ADR is considered a preferable procedure for financially distressed companies as it provides breathing space for such companies to focus on revitalizing their business. Such space is gained by the alleviation of debts against relevant financial institutions without adversely affecting integral business relationships with partners and customers.\n\nA private operator certified by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, provides mediation services in a Turnaround ADR. The Japanese Association of Turnaround Professionals (JATP) is the only private operator certified to provide mediation services for Turnaround ADR. In this role, JATP normally appoints a mediator from a network of corporate turnaround professionals. This mediator is responsible for implementing the Turnaround ADR procedure fairly and objectively.\n"}
{"id": "32917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32917", "title": "Walt Disney", "text": "Walt Disney\n\nWalter Elias Disney (; December 5, 1901December 15, 1966) was an American entrepreneur, animator, voice actor and film producer. A pioneer of the American animation industry, he introduced several developments in the production of cartoons. As a film producer, Disney holds the record for most Academy Awards earned by an individual, having won 22 Oscars from 59 nominations. He was presented with two Golden Globe Special Achievement Awards and an Emmy Award, among other honors. Several of his films are included in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.\n\nBorn in Chicago in 1901, Disney developed an early interest in drawing. He took art classes as a boy and got a job as a commercial illustrator at the age of 18. He moved to California in the early 1920s and set up the Disney Brothers Studio with his brother Roy. With Ub Iwerks, Walt developed the character Mickey Mouse in 1928, his first highly popular success; he also provided the voice for his creation in the early years. As the studio grew, Disney became more adventurous, introducing synchronized sound, full-color three-strip Technicolor, feature-length cartoons and technical developments in cameras. The results, seen in features such as \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937), \"Pinocchio\", \"Fantasia\" (both 1940), \"Dumbo\" (1941), and \"Bambi\" (1942), furthered the development of animated film. New animated and live-action films followed after World War II, including the critically successful \"Cinderella\" (1950) and \"Mary Poppins\" (1964), the latter of which received five Academy Awards.\n\nIn the 1950s, Disney expanded into the amusement park industry, and in 1955 he opened Disneyland. To fund the project he diversified into television programs, such as \"Walt Disney's Disneyland\" and \"The Mickey Mouse Club\"; he was also involved in planning the 1959 Moscow Fair, the 1960 Winter Olympics, and the 1964 New York World's Fair. In 1965, he began development of another theme park, Disney World, the heart of which was to be a new type of city, the \"Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow\" (EPCOT). Disney was a heavy smoker throughout his life, and died of lung cancer in December 1966 before either the park or the EPCOT project were completed.\n\nDisney was a shy, self-deprecating and insecure man in private but adopted a warm and outgoing public persona. He had high standards and high expectations of those with whom he worked. Although there have been accusations that he was racist or anti-Semitic, they have been contradicted by many who knew him. His reputation changed in the years after his death, from a purveyor of homely patriotic values to a representative of American imperialism. He nevertheless remains an important figure in the history of animation and in the cultural history of the United States, where he is considered a national cultural icon. His film work continues to be shown and adapted; his studio maintains high standards in its production of popular entertainment, and the Disney amusement parks have grown in size and number to attract visitors in several countries.\n\nWalt Disney was born on December 5, 1901, at 1249 Tripp Avenue, in Chicago's Hermosa neighborhood. He was the fourth son of Elias Disneyborn in the Province of Canada, to Irish parentsand Flora ( Call), an American of German and English descent. Aside from Disney, Elias and Flora's sons were Herbert, Raymond and Roy; the couple had a fifth child, Ruth, in December 1903. In 1906, when Disney was four, the family moved to a farm in Marceline, Missouri, where his uncle Robert had just purchased land. In Marceline, Disney developed his interest in drawing when he was paid to draw the horse of a retired neighborhood doctor. Elias was a subscriber to the \"Appeal to Reason\" newspaper, and Disney practiced drawing by copying the front-page cartoons of Ryan Walker. Disney also began to develop an ability to work with watercolors and crayons. He lived near the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway line and became enamored with trains. He and his younger sister Ruth started school at the same time at the Park School in Marceline in late 1909.\n\nIn 1911, the Disneys moved to Kansas City, Missouri. There, Disney attended the Benton Grammar School, where he met fellow-student Walter Pfeiffer, who came from a family of theatre fans and introduced Disney to the world of vaudeville and motion pictures. Before long, he was spending more time at the Pfeiffers' house than at home. Elias had purchased a newspaper delivery route for \"The Kansas City Star\" and \"Kansas City Times\". Disney and his brother Roy woke up at 4:30 every morning to deliver the \"Times\" before school and repeated the round for the evening \"Star\" after school. The schedule was exhausting, and Disney often received poor grades after falling asleep in class, but he continued his paper route for more than six years. He attended Saturday courses at the Kansas City Art Institute and also took a correspondence course in cartooning.\n\nIn 1917, Elias bought stock in a Chicago jelly producer, the O-Zell Company, and moved back to the city with his family. Disney enrolled at McKinley High School and became the cartoonist of the school newspaper, drawing patriotic pictures about World War I; he also took night courses at the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts. In mid-1918, Disney attempted to join the United States Army to fight against the Germans, but he was rejected for being too young. After forging the date of birth on his birth certificate, he joined the Red Cross in September 1918 as an ambulance driver. He was shipped to France but arrived in November, after the armistice. He drew cartoons on the side of his ambulance for decoration and had some of his work published in the army newspaper \"Stars and Stripes\". Disney returned to Kansas City in October 1919, where he worked as an apprentice artist at the Pesmen-Rubin Commercial Art Studio. There, he drew commercial illustrations for advertising, theater programs and catalogs. He also befriended fellow artist Ub Iwerks.\n\nIn January 1920, as Pesmen-Rubin's revenue declined after Christmas, Disney and Iwerks were laid off. They started their own business, the short-lived Iwerks-Disney Commercial Artists. Failing to attract many customers, Disney and Iwerks agreed that Disney should leave temporarily to earn money at the Kansas City Film Ad Company, run by A. V. Cauger; the following month Iwerks, who was not able to run their business alone, also joined. The company produced commercials using the cutout animation technique. Disney became interested in animation, although he preferred drawn cartoons such as \"Mutt and Jeff\" and \"Koko the Clown\". With the assistance of a borrowed book on animation and a camera, he began experimenting at home. He came to the conclusion that cel animation was more promising than the cutout method. Unable to persuade Cauger to try cel animation at the company, Disney opened a new business with a co-worker from the Film Ad Co, Fred Harman. Their main client was the local Newman Theater, and the short cartoons they produced were sold as \"Newman's Laugh-O-Grams\". Disney studied Paul Terry's \"Aesop's Fables\" as a model, and the first six \"Laugh-O-Grams\" were modernized fairy tales.\nIn May 1921, the success of the \"Laugh-O-Grams\" led to the establishment of Laugh-O-Gram Studio, for which he hired more animators, including Fred Harman's brother Hugh, Rudolf Ising and Iwerks. The Laugh-O-Grams cartoons did not provide enough income to keep the company solvent, so Disney started production of \"Alice's Wonderland\"based on \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\"which combined live action with animation; he cast Virginia Davis in the title role. The result, a 12-and-a-half-minute, one-reel film, was completed too late to save Laugh-O-Gram Studio, which went into bankruptcy in 1923.\n\nDisney moved to Hollywood in July 1923. Although New York was the center of the cartoon industry, he was attracted to Los Angeles because his brother Roy was convalescing from tuberculosis there. Disney's efforts to sell \"Alice's Wonderland\" were in vain until he heard from New York film distributor Margaret J. Winkler. She was losing the rights to both the \"Out of the Inkwell\" and \"Felix the Cat\" cartoons, and needed a new series. In October, they signed a contract for six \"Alice\" comedies, with an option for two further series of six episodes each. Disney and his brother Roy formed the Disney Brothers Studiowhich later became The Walt Disney Companyto produce the films; they persuaded Davis and her family to relocate to Hollywood to continue production, with Davis on contract at $100 a month. In July 1924, Disney also hired Iwerks, persuading him to relocate to Hollywood from Kansas City.\n\nEarly in 1925, Disney hired an ink artist, Lillian Bounds. They married in July of that year, at her brother's house in her hometown of Lewiston, Idaho. The marriage was generally happy, according to Lillian, although according to Disney's biographer Neal Gabler she did not \"accept Walt's decisions meekly or his status unquestionably, and she admitted that he was always telling people 'how henpecked he is'.\" Lillian had little interest in films or the Hollywood social scene and she was, in the words of the historian Steven Watts, \"content with household management and providing support for her husband\". Their marriage produced two daughters, Diane (born December 1933) and Sharon (adopted in December 1936, born six weeks previously). Within the family, neither Disney nor his wife hid the fact Sharon had been adopted, although they became annoyed if people outside the family raised the point. The Disneys were careful to keep their daughters out of the public eye as much as possible, particularly in the light of the Lindbergh kidnapping; Disney took steps to ensure his daughters were not photographed by the press.\nBy 1926 Winkler's role in the distribution of the \"Alice\" series had been handed over to her husband, the film producer Charles Mintz, although the relationship between him and Disney was sometimes strained. The series ran until July 1927, by which time Disney had begun to tire of it and wanted to move away from the mixed format to all animation. After Mintz requested new material to distribute through Universal Pictures, Disney and Iwerks created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, a character Disney wanted to be \"peppy, alert, saucy and venturesome, keeping him also neat and trim\".\n\nIn February 1928, Disney hoped to negotiate a larger fee for producing the \"Oswald\" series, but found Mintz wanting to reduce the payments. Mintz had also persuaded many of the artists involved to work directly for him, including Harman, Ising, Carman Maxwell and Friz Freleng. Disney also found out that Universal owned the intellectual property rights to Oswald. Mintz threatened to start his own studio and produce the series himself if Disney refused to accept the reductions. Disney declined Mintz's ultimatum and lost most of his animation staff, except Iwerks, who chose to remain with him.\n\nTo replace Oswald, Disney and Iwerks developed Mickey Mouse, possibly inspired by a pet mouse that Disney had adopted while working in his Laugh-O-Gram studio, although the origins of the character are unclear. Disney's original choice of name was Mortimer Mouse, but Lillian thought it too pompous, and suggested Mickey instead. Iwerks revised Disney's provisional sketches to make the character easier to animate, and Disney provided Mickey's voice until 1947. In the words of one Disney employee, \"Ub designed Mickey's physical appearance, but Walt gave him his soul.\"\nMickey Mouse first appeared in May 1928 as a single test screening of the short \"Plane Crazy\", but it, and the second feature, \"The Gallopin' Gaucho\", failed to find a distributor. Following the 1927 sensation \"The Jazz Singer\", Disney used synchronized sound on the third short, \"Steamboat Willie\", to create the first post-produced sound cartoon. After the animation was complete, Disney signed a contract with the former executive of Universal Pictures, Pat Powers, to use the \"Powers Cinephone\" recording system; Cinephone became the new distributor for Disney's early sound cartoons, which soon became popular.\n\nTo improve the quality of the music, Disney hired the professional composer and arranger Carl Stalling, on whose suggestion the \"Silly Symphony\" series was developed, providing stories through the use of music; the first in the series, \"The Skeleton Dance\" (1929), was drawn and animated entirely by Iwerks. Also hired at this time were several local artists, some of whom stayed with the company as core animators; the group later became known as the Nine Old Men. Both the Mickey Mouse and \"Silly Symphonies\" series were successful, but Disney and his brother felt they were not receiving their rightful share of profits from Powers. In 1930, Disney tried to trim costs from the process by urging Iwerks to abandon the practice of animating every separate cel in favor of the more efficient technique of drawing key poses and letting lower-paid assistants sketch the inbetween poses. Disney asked Powers for an increase in payments for the cartoons. Powers refused and signed Iwerks to work for him; Stalling resigned shortly afterwards, thinking that without Iwerks, the Disney Studio would close. Disney had a nervous breakdown in October 1931which he blamed on the machinations of Powers and his own overworkso he and Lillian took an extended holiday to Cuba and a cruise to Panama to recover.\nWith the loss of Powers as distributor, Disney studios signed a contract with Columbia Pictures to distribute the Mickey Mouse cartoons, which became increasingly popular, including internationally. Disney, always keen to embrace new technology, filmed \"Flowers and Trees\" (1932) in full-color three-strip Technicolor; he was also able to negotiate a deal giving him the sole right to use the three-strip process until August 31, 1935. All subsequent \"Silly Symphony\" cartoons were in color. \"Flowers and Trees\" was popular with audiences and won the Academy Award for best Short Subject (Cartoon) at the 1932 ceremony. Disney had been nominated for another film in that category, \"Mickey's Orphans\", and received an Honorary Award \"for the creation of Mickey Mouse\".\n\nIn 1933, Disney produced \"The Three Little Pigs\", a film described by the media historian Adrian Danks as \"the most successful short animation of all time\". The film won Disney another Academy Award in the Short Subject (Cartoon) category. The film's success led to a further increase in the studio's staff, which numbered nearly 200 by the end of the year. Disney realized the importance of telling emotionally gripping stories that would interest the audience, and he invested in a \"story department\" separate from the animators, with storyboard artists who would detail the plots of Disney's films.\n\nBy 1934, Disney had become dissatisfied with producing formulaic cartoon shorts, and began a four-year production of a feature-length cartoon, \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", based on the fairy tale. When news leaked out about the project, many in the film industry predicted it would bankrupt the company; industry insiders nicknamed it \"Disney's Folly\". The film, which was the first animated feature made in full color and sound, cost $1.5 million to producethree times over budget. To ensure the animation was as realistic as possible, Disney sent his animators on courses at the Chouinard Art Institute; he brought animals into the studio and hired actors so that the animators could study realistic movement. To portray the changing perspective of the background as a camera moved through a scene, Disney's animators developed a multiplane camera which allowed drawings on pieces of glass to be set at various distances from the camera, creating an illusion of depth. The glass could be moved to create the impression of a camera passing through the scene. The first work created on the cameraa \"Silly Symphony\" called \"The Old Mill\" (1937)won the Academy Award for Animated Short Film because of its impressive visual power. Although \"Snow White\" had been largely finished by the time the multiplane camera had been completed, Disney ordered some scenes be re-drawn to use the new effects.\n\n\"Snow White\" premiered in December 1937 to high praise from critics and audiences. The film became the most successful motion picture of 1938 and by May 1939 its total gross of $6.5 million made it the most successful sound film made to that date. Disney won another Honorary Academy Award, which consisted of one full-sized and seven miniature Oscar statuettes. The success of \"Snow White\" heralded one of the most productive eras for the studio; the Walt Disney Family Museum calls the following years \"the 'Golden Age of Animation'\". With work on \"Snow White\" finished, the studio began producing \"Pinocchio\" in early 1938 and \"Fantasia\" in November of the same year. Both films were released in 1940, and neither performed well at the box officepartly because revenues from Europe had dropped following the start of World War II in 1939. The studio made a loss on both pictures and was deeply in debt by the end of February 1941.\n\nIn response to the financial crisis, Disney and his brother Roy started the company's first public stock offering in 1940, and implemented heavy salary cuts. The latter measure, and Disney's sometimes high-handed and insensitive manner of dealing with staff, led to a 1941 animators' strike which lasted five weeks. While a federal mediator from the National Labor Relations Board negotiated with the two sides, Disney accepted an offer from the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs to make a goodwill trip to South America, ensuring he was absent during a resolution he knew would be unfavorable to the studio. As a result of the strikeand the financial state of the companyseveral animators left the studio, and Disney's relationship with other members of staff was permanently strained as a result. The strike temporarily interrupted the studio's next production, \"Dumbo\" (1941), which Disney produced in a simple and inexpensive manner; the film received a positive reaction from audiences and critics alike.\n\nShortly after the release of \"Dumbo\" in October 1941, the U.S. entered World War II. Disney formed the Walt Disney Training Films Unit within the company to produce instruction films for the military such as \"Four Methods of Flush Riveting\" and \"Aircraft Production Methods\". Disney also met with Henry Morgenthau, Jr., the Secretary of the Treasury, and agreed to produce short Donald Duck cartoons to promote war bonds. Disney also produced several propaganda productions, including shorts such as \"Der Fuehrer's Face\"which won an Academy Awardand the 1943 feature film \"Victory Through Air Power\".\n\nThe military films generated only enough revenue to cover costs, and the feature film \"Bambi\"which had been in production since 1937underperformed on its release in April 1942, and lost $200,000 at the box office. On top of the low earnings from \"Pinocchio\" and \"Fantasia\", the company had debts of $4 million with the Bank of America in 1944. At a meeting with Bank of America executives to discuss the future of the company, the bank's chairman and founder, Amadeo Giannini, told his executives, \"I've been watching the Disneys' pictures quite closely because I knew we were lending them money far above the financial risk. ... They're good this year, they're good next year, and they're good the year after. ... You have to relax and give them time to market their product.\" Disney's production of short films decreased in the late 1940s, coinciding with increasing competition in the animation market from Warner Bros. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Roy Disney, for financial reasons, suggested more combined animation and live-action productions. In 1948, Disney initiated a series of popular live-action nature films, titled \"True-Life Adventures\", with \"Seal Island\" the first; the film won the Academy Award in the Best Short Subject (Two-Reel) category.\n\nDisney grew more politically conservative as he got older. A Democratic Party supporter until the 1940 presidential election, when he switched allegiance to the Republican Party, he became a generous donor to Thomas E. Dewey's 1944 bid for the presidency. In 1946, he was a founding member of the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals, an organization who stated they \"believ[ed] in, and like, the American Way of Life ... we find ourselves in sharp revolt against a rising tide of Communism, Fascism and kindred beliefs, that seek by subversive means to undermine and change this way of life\". In 1947, during the Second Red Scare, Disney testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), where he branded Herbert Sorrell, David Hilberman and William Pomerance, former animators and labor union organizers, as communist agitators; Disney stated that the 1941 strike led by them was part of an organized communist effort to gain influence in Hollywood.\nIn 1949, Disney and his family moved to a new home in the Holmby Hills district of Los Angeles. With the help of his friends Ward and Betty Kimball, who already had their own backyard railroad, Disney developed blueprints and immediately set to work on creating a miniature live steam railroad for his backyard. The name of the railroad, Carolwood Pacific Railroad, came from his home's location on Carolwood Drive. The miniature working steam locomotive was built by Disney Studios engineer Roger E. Broggie, and Disney named it \"Lilly Belle\" after his wife; after three years Disney ordered it into storage due to a series of accidents involving his guests.\n\nIn early 1950, Disney produced \"Cinderella\", his studio's first animated feature in eight years. It was popular with critics and theater audiences. Costing $2.2 million to produce, it earned nearly $8 million in its first year. Disney was less involved than he had been with previous pictures because of his involvement in his first entirely live-action feature, \"Treasure Island\" (1950), which was shot in Britain, as was \"The Story of Robin Hood and His Merrie Men\" (1952). Other all-live-action features followed, many of which had patriotic themes. He continued to produce full-length animated features too, including \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1951) and \"Peter Pan\" (1953). From the early to mid-1950s, Disney began to devote less attention to the animation department, entrusting most of its operations to his key animators, the Nine Old Men, although he was always present at story meetings. Instead, he started concentrating on other ventures.\nFor several years Disney had been considering building a theme park. When he visited Griffith Park in Los Angeles with his daughters, he wanted to be in a clean, unspoiled park, where both children and their parents could have fun. He visited the Tivoli Gardens in Copenhagen, Denmark, and was heavily influenced by the cleanliness and layout of the park. In March 1952 he received zoning permission to build a theme park in Burbank, near the Disney studios. This site proved too small, and a larger plot in Anaheim, south of the studio, was purchased. To distance the project from the studiowhich might attract the criticism of shareholdersDisney formed WED Enterprises (now Walt Disney Imagineering) and used his own money to fund a group of designers and animators to work on the plans; those involved became known as \"Imagineers\". After obtaining bank funding he invited other stockholders, American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatrespart of American Broadcasting Company (ABC)and Western Printing and Lithographing Company. In mid-1954, Disney sent his Imagineers to every amusement park in the U.S. to analyze what worked and what pitfalls or problems there were in the various locations and incorporated their findings into his design. Construction work started in July 1954, and Disneyland opened in July 1955; the opening ceremony was broadcast on ABC, which reached 70 million viewers. The park was designed as a series of themed lands, linked by the central Main Street, U.S.A.a replica of the main street in his hometown of Marceline. The connected themed areas were Adventureland, Frontierland, Fantasyland and Tomorrowland. The park also contained the narrow gauge Disneyland Railroad that linked the lands; around the outside of the park was a high berm to separate the park from the outside world. An editorial in \"The New York Times\" considered that Disney had \"tastefully combined some of the pleasant things of yesterday with fantasy and dreams of tomorrow\". Although there were early minor problems with the park, it was a success, and after a month's operation, Disneyland was receiving over 20,000 visitors a day; by the end of its first year, it attracted 3.6 million guests.\n\nThe money from ABC was contingent on Disney television programs. The studio had been involved in a successful television special on Christmas Day 1950 about the making of \"Alice in Wonderland\". Roy believed the program added millions to the box office takings. In a March 1951 letter to shareholders, he wrote that \"television can be a most powerful selling aid for us, as well as a source of revenue. It will probably be on this premise that we enter television when we do\". In 1954, after the Disneyland funding had been agreed, ABC broadcast \"Walt Disney's Disneyland\", an anthology consisting of animated cartoons, live-action features and other material from the studio's library. The show was successful in terms of ratings and profits, earning an audience share of over 50%. In April 1955, \"Newsweek\" called the series an \"American institution\". ABC was pleased with the ratings, leading to Disney's first daily television program, \"The Mickey Mouse Club\", a variety show catering specifically to children. The program was accompanied by merchandising through various companies (Western Printing, for example, had been producing coloring books and comics for over 20 years, and produced several items connected to the show). One of the segments of \"Disneyland\" consisted of the five-part miniseries \"Davy Crockett\" which, according to Gabler, \"became an overnight sensation\". The show's theme song, \"The Ballad of Davy Crockett\", became internationally popular, and ten million records were sold. As a result, Disney formed his own record production and distribution entity, Disneyland Records.\n\nAs well as the construction of Disneyland, Disney worked on other projects away from the studio. He was consultant to the 1959 American National Exhibition in Moscow; Disney Studios' contribution was \"America the Beautiful\", a 19-minute film in the 360-degree Circarama theater that was one of the most popular attractions. The following year he acted as the chairman of the Pageantry Committee for the 1960 Winter Olympics at Squaw Valley, California, where he designed the opening, closing and medal ceremonies.\nDespite the demands wrought by non-studio projects, Disney continued to work on film and television projects. In 1955, he was involved in \"Man in Space\", an episode of the \"Disneyland\" series, which was made in collaboration with NASA rocket designer Wernher von Braun. Disney also oversaw aspects of the full-length features \"Lady and the Tramp\" (the first animated film in CinemaScope) in 1955, \"Sleeping Beauty\" (the first animated film in Technirama 70 mm film) in 1959, \"One Hundred and One Dalmatians\" (the first animated feature film to use Xerox cels) in 1961, and \"The Sword in the Stone\" in 1963.\n\nIn 1964, Disney produced \"Mary Poppins\", based on the book series by P. L. Travers; he had been trying to acquire the rights to the story since the 1940s. It became the most successful Disney film of the 1960s, although Travers disliked the film intensely and regretted having sold the rights. The same year he also became involved in plans to expand the California Institute of the Arts (colloquially called CalArts), and had an architect draw up blueprints for a new building.\n\nDisney provided four exhibits for the 1964 New York World's Fair, for which he obtained funding from selected corporate sponsors. For PepsiCo, who planned a tribute to UNICEF, Disney developed It's a Small World, a boat ride with audio-animatronic dolls depicting children of the world; Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln contained an animatronic Abraham Lincoln giving excerpts from his speeches; Carousel of Progress promoted the importance of electricity; and Ford's Magic Skyway portrayed the progress of mankind. Elements of all four exhibitsprincipally concepts and technologywere re-installed in Disneyland, although It's a Small World is the ride that most closely resembles the original.\n\nDuring the early to mid-1960s, Disney developed plans for a ski resort in Mineral King, a glacial valley in California's Sierra Nevada. He hired experts such as the renowned Olympic ski coach and ski-area designer Willy Schaeffler. With income from Disneyland accounting for an increasing proportion of the studio's income, Disney continued to look for venues for other attractions. In late 1965, he announced plans to develop another theme park to be called \"Disney World\" (now Walt Disney World), a few miles southwest of Orlando, Florida. Disney World was to include the \"Magic Kingdom\"a larger and more elaborate version of Disneylandplus golf courses and resort hotels. The heart of Disney World was to be the \"Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow\" (EPCOT), which he described as:\n\nan experimental prototype community of tomorrow that will take its cue from the new ideas and new technologies that are now emerging from the creative centers of American industry. It will be a community of tomorrow that will never be completed, but will always be introducing and testing and demonstrating new materials and systems. And EPCOT will always be a showcase to the world for the ingenuity and imagination of American free enterprise.\n\nDuring 1966, Disney cultivated businesses willing to sponsor EPCOT. He increased his involvement in the studio's films, and was heavily involved in the story development of \"The Jungle Book\", the live-action musical feature \"The Happiest Millionaire\" (both 1967) and the animated short \"Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day\".\n\nDisney had been a heavy smoker since World War I. He did not use cigarettes with filters, and had smoked a pipe as a young man. In November 1966, he was diagnosed with lung cancer and was treated with cobalt therapy. On November 30 he felt unwell and was taken to St. Joseph Hospital where, on December 15, ten days after his 65th birthday, he died of circulatory collapse caused by lung cancer. Disney's remains were cremated two days later, and his ashes interred at the Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California.\n\nHis estate included a 14 percent holding in Walt Disney Productions worth $20 million. He left 45 percent of his estate to his wife and childrenmuch in a family trustand 10 percent to his sister, nieces and nephews. The remaining 45 percent went into a charitable trust, 95 percent of which was designated for CalArts, to build a new campus (a figure of around $15 million); he also donated of the Golden Oaks ranch in Valencia for construction of that school. The university moved there in November 1971.\n\nThe release of \"The Jungle Book\" and \"The Happiest Millionaire\" in 1967 raised the total number of feature films that Disney had been involved in to 81. When \"Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day\" was released in 1968, it earned Disney an Academy Award in the Short Subject (Cartoon) category, awarded posthumously. After Disney's death, his studios continued to produce live-action films prolifically but largely abandoned animation until the late 1980s, after which there was what \"The New York Times\" describes as the \"Disney Renaissance\" that began with \"The Little Mermaid\" (1989). Disney's companies continue to produce successful film, television and stage entertainment.\nDisney's plans for the futuristic city of EPCOT did not come to fruition. After Disney's death, his brother Roy deferred his retirement to take full control of the Disney companies. He changed the focus of the project from a town to an attraction. At the inauguration in 1971, Roy dedicated Walt Disney World to his brother. Walt Disney World expanded with the opening of Epcot Center in 1982; Walt Disney's vision of a functional city was replaced by a park more akin to a permanent world's fair. In 2009, the Walt Disney Family Museum, designed by Disney's daughter Diane and her son Walter E. D. Miller, opened in the Presidio of San Francisco. Thousands of artifacts from Disney's life and career are on display, including numerous awards that he received. In 2014, the Disney theme parks around the world hosted approximately 134 million visitors.\n\nDisney has been portrayed numerous times in fictional works. H. G. Wells references Disney in his 1938 novel \"The Holy Terror\", in which World Dictator Rud fears that Donald Duck is meant to lampoon the dictator. Disney was portrayed by Len Cariou in the 1995 made-for-TV film \"A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes: The Annette Funicello Story\", and by Tom Hanks in the 2013 film \"Saving Mr. Banks\". In 2001, the German author Peter Stephan Jungk published (trans: \"The King of America\"), a fictional work of Disney's later years that re-imagines him as a power-hungry racist. The composer Philip Glass later adapted the book into the opera \"The Perfect American\" (2013).\n\nDisney received 59 Academy Award nominations, including 22 awards: both totals are records. He was nominated for three Golden Globe Awards, but did not win, but he was presented with two Special Achievement Awardsfor \"Bambi\" (1942) and \"The Living Desert\" (1953)and the Cecil B. DeMille Award. He also received four Emmy Award nominations, winning once, for Best Producer for the \"Disneyland\" television series. Several of his films are included in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\": \"Steamboat Willie\", \"The Three Little Pigs\", \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", \"Fantasia\", \"Pinocchio\", \"Bambi\" and \"Mary Poppins\". In 1998, the American Film Institute published a list of the 100 greatest American films, according to industry experts; the list included \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (at number 49), and \"Fantasia\" (at 58).\n\nIn February 1960, Disney was inducted to the Hollywood Walk of Fame with two stars, one for motion pictures and the other for his television work; Mickey Mouse was given his own star for motion pictures in 1978. Disney was also inducted into the Television Hall of Fame in 1986, the California Hall of Fame in December 2006, and was the inaugural recipient of a star on the Anaheim walk of stars in 2014.\n\nThe Walt Disney Family Museum records that he \"along with members of his staff, received more than 950 honors and citations from throughout the world\". He was made a in the French in 1935, and in 1952 he was awarded the country's highest artistic decoration, the . Other national awards include Thailand's Order of the Crown; Brazil's Order of the Southern Cross and Mexico's Order of the Aztec Eagle. In the United States, he received the Presidential Medal of Freedom on September 14, 1964, and in 1969, he was posthumously awarded the Congressional Gold Medal. He received the Showman of the World Award from the National Association of Theatre Owners, and in 1955, the National Audubon Society awarded Disney its highest honor, the Audubon Medal, for promoting the \"appreciation and understanding of nature\" through his \"True-Life Adventures\" nature films. A minor planet discovered in 1980 by astronomer Lyudmila Karachkina, was named 4017 Disneya, and he was also awarded honorary degrees from Harvard, Yale, the University of Southern California and the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nDisney's public persona was very different from his actual personality. Playwright Robert E. Sherwood described him as \"almost painfully shy ... diffident\" and self-deprecating. According to his biographer Richard Schickel, Disney hid his shy and insecure personality behind his public identity. Kimball argues that Disney \"played the role of a bashful tycoon who was embarrassed in public\" and knew that he was doing so. Disney acknowledged the façade, and told a friend that \"I'm not Walt Disney. I do a lot of things Walt Disney would not do. Walt Disney does not smoke. I smoke. Walt Disney does not drink. I drink.\" Critic Otis Ferguson, in \"The New Republic\", called the private Disney: \"common and everyday, not inaccessible, not in a foreign language, not suppressed or sponsored or anything. Just Disney.\" Many of those with whom Disney worked commented that he gave his staff little encouragement due to his exceptionally high expectations. Norman recalls that when Disney said \"That'll work\", it was an indication of high praise. Instead of direct approval, Disney gave high-performing staff financial bonuses, or recommended certain individuals to others, expecting that his praise would be passed on.\n\nViews of Disney and his work have changed over the decades, and there have been polarized opinions. Mark Langer, in the \"American Dictionary of National Biography\", writes that \"Earlier evaluations of Disney hailed him as a patriot, folk artist, and popularizer of culture. More recently, Disney has been regarded as a paradigm of American imperialism and intolerance, as well as a debaser of culture.\" Steven Watts wrote that some denounce Disney \"as a cynical manipulator of cultural and commercial formulas\", while PBS records that critics have censured his work because of its \"smooth façade of sentimentality and stubborn optimism, its feel-good re-write of American history\". Although Disney's films have been highly praised, very popular and commercially successful over time, there were criticisms by reviewers. Caroline Lejeune comments in \"The Observer\" that \"Snow White\" (1937) \"has more faults than any earlier Disney cartoon. It is vulnerable again and again to the barbed criticisms of the experts. Sometimes it is, frankly, badly drawn.\" Robin Allen, writing for \"The Times\", notes that \"Fantasia\" (1940) was \"condemned for its vulgarity and lurches into bathos\", while Lejeune, reviewing \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1951), feels the film \"may drive lovers of Lewis Carroll to frenzy\". \"Peter Pan\" (1953) was criticized in \"The Times\" as \"a children's classic vulgarized\" with \"Tinker Bell ... a peroxided American cutie\". The reviewer opined that Disney \"has slaughtered good Barrie and has only second-rate Disney to put in its place\".\n\nDisney has been accused of anti-Semitism, although none of his employeesincluding the animator Art Babbitt, who disliked Disney intenselyever accused him of making anti-Semitic slurs or taunts. The Walt Disney Family Museum acknowledges that ethnic stereotypes common to films of the 1930s were included in some early cartoons. Disney donated regularly to Jewish charities, he was named \"1955 Man of the Year\" by the B'nai B'rith chapter in Beverly Hills, and his studio employed a number of Jews, some of whom were in influential positions. Gabler, the first writer to gain unrestricted access to the Disney archives, concludes that the available evidence does not support accusations of anti-Semitism and that Disney was \"not [anti-Semitic] in the conventional sense that we think of someone as being an anti-Semite\". Gabler concludes that \"though Walt himself, in my estimation, was not anti-Semitic, nevertheless, he willingly allied himself with people who were anti-Semitic [meaning some members of the MPAPAI], and that reputation stuck. He was never really able to expunge it throughout his life\". Disney distanced himself from the Motion Picture Alliance in the 1950s.\n\nDisney has also been accused of other forms of racism because some of his productions released between the 1930s and 1950s contain racially insensitive material. The feature film \"Song of the South\" was criticized by contemporary film critics, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and others for its perpetuation of black stereotypes, but Disney later campaigned successfully for an Honorary Academy Award for its star, James Baskett, the first black actor so honored. Gabler argues that \"Walt Disney was no racist. He never, either publicly or privately, made disparaging remarks about blacks or asserted white superiority. Like most white Americans of his generation, however, he was racially insensitive.\" Floyd Norman, the studio's first black animator who worked closely with Disney during the 1950s and 1960s, said, \"Not once did I observe a hint of the racist behavior Walt Disney was often accused of after his death. His treatment of peopleand by this I mean all peoplecan only be called exemplary.\"\n\nWatts argues that many of Disney's post World War II films \"legislated a kind of cultural Marshall Plan. They nourished a genial cultural imperialism that magically overran the rest of the globe with the values, expectations, and goods of a prosperous middle-class United States.\" Film historian Jay P. Telotte acknowledges that many see Disney's studio as an \"agent of manipulation and repression\", although he observes that it has \"labored throughout its history to link its name with notions of fun, family, and fantasy\". John Tomlinson, in his study \"Cultural Imperialism\", examines the work of Ariel Dorfman and Armand Mattelart, whose 1971 book (trans: \"How to Read Donald Duck\") identifies that there are \"imperialist ... values 'concealed' behind the innocent, wholesome façade of the world of Walt Disney\"; this, they argue, is a powerful tool as \"it presents itself as harmless fun for consumption by children.\" Tomlinson views their argument as flawed, as \"they simply \"assume\" that reading American comics, seeing adverts, watching pictures of the affluent ... ['Yankee'] lifestyle has a direct pedagogic effect\".\n\nSeveral commentators have described Disney as a cultural icon. On Disney's death, journalism professor Ralph S. Izard comments that the values in Disney's films are those \"considered valuable in American Christian society\", which include \"individualism, decency, ... love for our fellow man, fair play and toleration\". Disney's obituary in \"The Times\" calls the films \"wholesome, warm-hearted and entertaining ... of incomparable artistry and of touching beauty\". Journalist Bosley Crowther argues that Disney's \"achievement as a creator of entertainment for an almost unlimited public and as a highly ingenious merchandiser of his wares can rightly be compared to the most successful industrialists in history.\" Correspondent Alistair Cooke calls Disney a \"folk-hero ... the Pied Piper of Hollywood\", while Gabler considers Disney \"reshaped the culture and the American consciousness\". In the \"American Dictionary of National Biography\", Langer writes:\n\nDisney remains the central figure in the history of animation. Through technological innovations and alliances with governments and corporations, he transformed a minor studio in a marginal form of communication into a multinational leisure industry giant. Despite his critics, his vision of a modern, corporate utopia as an extension of traditional American values has possibly gained greater currency in the years after his death.\n\n\n"}
