{"id": "2807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807", "title": "Active Directory", "text": "Active Directory\n\nActive Directory (AD) is a directory service that Microsoft developed for the Windows domain networks. It is included in most Windows Server operating systems as a set of processes and services. Initially, Active Directory was only in charge of centralized domain management. Starting with Windows Server 2008, however, Active Directory became an umbrella title for a broad range of directory-based identity-related services.\n\nA server running Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) is called a domain controller. It authenticates and authorizes all users and computers in a Windows domain type network—assigning and enforcing security policies for all computers and installing or updating software. For example, when a user logs into a computer that is part of a Windows domain, Active Directory checks the submitted password and determines whether the user is a system administrator or normal user. Also, it allows management and storage of information, provides authentication and authorization mechanisms, and establishes a framework to deploy other related services: Certificate Services, Active Directory Federation Services, Lightweight Directory Services and Rights Management Services. \n\nActive Directory uses Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) versions 2 and 3, Microsoft's version of Kerberos, and DNS.\n\nActive Directory, like many information-technology efforts, originated out of a democratization of design using Request for Comments or RFCs. The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), which oversees the RFC process, has accepted numerous RFCs initiated by widespread participants. Active Directory incorporates decades of communication technologies into the overarching Active Directory concept then makes improvements upon them. For example, LDAP underpins Active Directory. Also X.500 directories and the Organizational Unit preceded the Active Directory concept that makes use of those methods. The LDAP concept began to emerge even before the founding of Microsoft in April 1975, with RFCs as early as 1971. RFCs contributing to LDAP include RFC 1823 (on the LDAP API, August 1995),RFC 2307, RFC 3062, and RFC 4533.\n\nMicrosoft previewed Active Directory in 1999, released it first with Windows 2000 Server edition, and revised it to extend functionality and improve administration in Windows Server 2003. Additional improvements came with subsequent versions of Windows Server. In Windows Server 2008, additional services were added to Active Directory, such as Active Directory Federation Services. The part of the directory in charge of management of domains, which was previously a core part of the operating system, was renamed Active Directory Domain Services (ADDS) and became a server role like others. \"Active Directory\" became the umbrella title of a broader range of directory-based services. According to Bryon Hynes, everything related to identity was brought under Active Directory's banner.\n\nActive Directory Services consist of multiple directory services. The best known is Active Directory Domain Services, commonly abbreviated as AD DS or simply AD.\n\nActive Directory Domain Services (AD DS) is the cornerstone of every Windows domain network. It stores information about members of the domain, including devices and users, verifies their credentials and defines their access rights. The server (or the cluster of servers) running this service is called a domain controller. A domain controller is contacted when a user logs into a device, accesses another device across the network, or runs a line-of-business Metro-style app sideloaded into a device.\n\nOther Active Directory services (excluding LDS, as described below) as well as most of Microsoft server technologies rely on or use Domain Services; examples include Group Policy, Encrypting File System, BitLocker, Domain Name Services, Remote Desktop Services, Exchange Server and SharePoint Server.\n\nActive Directory Lightweight Directory Services (\"AD LDS\"), formerly known as \"Active Directory Application Mode\" (ADAM), is a light-weight implementation of AD DS. AD LDS runs as a service on Windows Server. AD LDS shares the code base with AD DS and provides the same functionality, including an identical API, but does not require the creation of domains or domain controllers. It provides a \"Data Store\" for storage of directory data and a \"Directory Service\" with an LDAP \"Directory Service Interface\". Unlike AD DS, however, multiple AD LDS instances can run on the same server.\n\nActive Directory Certificate Services (AD CS) establishes an on-premises public key infrastructure. It can create, validate and revoke public key certificates for internal uses of an organization. These certificates can be used to encrypt files (when used with Encrypting File System), emails (per S/MIME standard), and network traffic (when used by virtual private networks, Transport Layer Security protocol or IPSec protocol).\n\nAD CS predates Windows Server 2008, but its name was simply Certificate Services.\n\nAD CS requires an AD DS infrastructure.\n\nActive Directory Federation Services (AD FS) is a single sign-on service. With an AD FS infrastructure in place, users may use several web-based services (e.g. internet forum, blog, online shopping, webmail) or network resources using only one set of credentials stored at a central location, as opposed to having to be granted a dedicated set of credentials for each service. AD FS's purpose is an extension of that of AD DS: The latter enables users to authenticate with and use the devices that are part of the same network, using one set of credentials. The former enables them to use the same set of credentials in a different network.\n\nAs the name suggests, AD FS works based on the concept of federated identity.\n\nAD FS requires an AD DS infrastructure, although its federation partner may not.\n\nActive Directory Rights Management Services (AD RMS, known as Rights Management Services or RMS before Windows Server 2008) is a server software for information rights management shipped with Windows Server. It uses encryption and a form of selective functionality denial for limiting access to documents such as corporate e-mails, Microsoft Word documents, and web pages, and the operations authorized users can perform on them.\n\nAs a directory service, an Active Directory instance consists of a database and corresponding executable code responsible for servicing requests and maintaining the database. The executable part, known as Directory System Agent, is a collection of Windows services and processes that run on Windows 2000 and later. Objects in Active Directory databases can be accessed via LDAP, ADSI (a component object model interface), messaging API and Security Accounts Manager services.\n\nActive Directory structures are arrangements of information about objects. The objects fall into two broad categories: resources (e.g., printers) and security principals (user or computer accounts and groups). Security principals are assigned unique security identifiers (SIDs).\n\nEach object represents a single entity—whether a user, a computer, a printer, or a group—and its attributes. Certain objects can contain other objects. An object is uniquely identified by its name and has a set of attributes—the characteristics and information that the object represents— defined by a schema, which also determines the kinds of objects that can be stored in Active Directory.\n\nThe schema object lets administrators extend or modify the schema when necessary. However, because each schema object is integral to the definition of Active Directory objects, deactivating or changing these objects can fundamentally change or disrupt a deployment. Schema changes automatically propagate throughout the system. Once created, an object can only be deactivated—not deleted. Changing the schema usually requires planning.\n\nThe Active Directory framework that holds the objects can be viewed at a number of levels. The forest, tree, and domain are the logical divisions in an Active Directory network.\n\nWithin a deployment, objects are grouped into domains. The objects for a single domain are stored in a single database (which can be replicated). Domains are identified by their DNS name structure, the namespace.\n\nA domain is defined as a logical group of network objects (computers, users, devices) that share the same Active Directory database.\n\nA tree is a collection of one or more domains and domain trees in a contiguous namespace, and is linked in a transitive trust hierarchy.\n\nAt the top of the structure is the \"forest.\" A forest is a collection of trees that share a common global catalog, directory schema, logical structure, and directory configuration. The forest represents the security boundary within which users, computers, groups, and other objects are accessible.\n\nThe objects held within a domain can be grouped into Organizational Units (OUs). OUs can provide hierarchy to a domain, ease its administration, and can resemble the organization's structure in managerial or geographical terms. OUs can contain other OUs—domains are containers in this sense. Microsoft recommends using OUs rather than domains for structure and to simplify the implementation of policies and administration. The OU is the recommended level at which to apply group policies, which are Active Directory objects formally named Group Policy Objects (GPOs), although policies can also be applied to domains or sites (see below). The OU is the level at which administrative powers are commonly delegated, but delegation can be performed on individual objects or attributes as well.\n\nOrganizational units do not each have a separate namespace; e.g. user accounts with an identical username (sAMAccountName) in separate OUs within a domain are not allowed, such as \"fred.staff-ou.domain\" and \"fred.student-ou.domain\", where \"staff-ou\" and \"student-ou\" are the OUs. This is because sAMAccountName, a user object attribute, must be unique within the domain. However, two users in different OUs can have the same Common Name (CN), the name under which they are stored in the directory itself.\n\nIn general the reason for this lack of allowance for duplicate names through hierarchical directory placement, is that Microsoft primarily relies on the principles of NetBIOS, which is a flat-file method of network object management that for Microsoft software, goes all the way back to Windows NT 3.1 and MS-DOS LAN Manager. Allowing for duplication of object names in the directory, or completely removing the use of NetBIOS names, would prevent backward compatibility with legacy software and equipment. However, disallowing duplicate object names in this way is a violation of the LDAP RFCs on which Active Directory is supposedly based.\n\nAs the number of users in a domain increases, conventions such as \"first initial, middle initial, last name\" (Western order) or the reverse (Eastern order) fail for common family names like \"Li (李)\", \"Smith\" or \"Garcia\". Workarounds include adding a digit to the end of the username. Alternatives include creating a separate ID system of unique employee/student id numbers to use as account names in place of actual user's names, and allowing users to nominate their preferred word sequence within an acceptable use policy.\n\nBecause duplicate usernames cannot exist within a domain, account name generation poses a significant challenge for large organizations that cannot be easily subdivided into separate domains, such as students in a public school system or university who must be able to use any computer across the network.\n\nIn Microsoft's Active Directory, OUs do not confer access permissions, and objects placed within OUs are not automatically assigned access privileges based on their containing OU. This is a design limitation specific to Active Directory. Other competing directories such as Novell NDS are able to assign access privileges through object placement within an OU.\n\nActive Directory requires a separate step for an administrator to assign an object in an OU as a member of a group also within that OU. Relying on OU location alone to determine access permissions is unreliable, because the object may not have been assigned to the group object for that OU.\n\nA common workaround for an Active Directory administrator is to write a custom PowerShell or Visual Basic script to automatically create and maintain a \"user group\" for each OU in their directory. The scripts are run periodically to update the group to match the OU's account membership, but are unable to instantly update the security groups anytime the directory changes, as occurs in competing directories where security is directly implemented into the directory itself. Such groups are known as \"Shadow Groups\". Once created, these shadow groups are selectable in place of the OU in the administrative tools.\n\nMicrosoft refers to shadow groups in the Server 2008 Reference documentation, but does not explain how to create them. There are no built-in server methods or console snap-ins for managing shadow groups.\n\nThe division of an organization's information infrastructure into a hierarchy of one or more domains and top-level OUs is a key decision. Common models are by business unit, by geographical location, by IT Service, or by object type and hybrids of these. OUs should be structured primarily to facilitate administrative delegation, and secondarily, to facilitate group policy application. Although OUs form an administrative boundary, the only true security boundary is the forest itself and an administrator of any domain in the forest must be trusted across all domains in the forest.\n\nThe Active Directory database is organized in \"partitions\", each holding specific object types and following a specific replication pattern. Microsoft often refers to these partitions as 'naming contexts'. The 'Schema' partition contains the definition of object classes and attributes within the Forest. The 'Configuration' partition contains information on the physical structure and configuration of the forest (such as the site topology). Both replicate to all domains in the Forest. The 'Domain' partition holds all objects created in that domain and replicates only within its domain.\n\n\"Sites\" are physical (rather than logical) groupings defined by one or more IP subnets. AD also holds the definitions of connections, distinguishing low-speed (e.g., WAN, VPN) from high-speed (e.g., LAN) links. Site definitions are independent of the domain and OU structure and are common across the forest. Sites are used to control network traffic generated by replication and also to refer clients to the nearest domain controllers (DCs). Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 uses the site topology for mail routing. Policies can also be defined at the site level.\n\nPhysically, the Active Directory information is held on one or more peer domain controllers, replacing the NT PDC/BDC model. Each DC has a copy of the Active Directory. Servers joined to Active Directory that are not domain controllers are called Member Servers. A subset of objects in the domain partition replicate to domain controllers that are configured as global catalogs. Global catalog (GC) servers provide a global listing of all objects in the Forest.\nGlobal Catalog servers replicate to themselves all objects from all domains and hence, provide a global listing of objects in the forest. However, to minimize replication traffic and keep the GC's database small, only selected attributes of each object are replicated. This is called the partial attribute set (PAS). The PAS can be modified by modifying the schema and marking attributes for replication to the GC. Earlier versions of Windows used NetBIOS to communicate. Active Directory is fully integrated with DNS and requires TCP/IP—DNS. To be fully functional, the DNS server must support SRV resource records, also known as service records.\n\nActive Directory synchronizes changes using \"multi-master replication\". Replication by default is 'pull' rather than 'push', meaning that replicas pull changes from the server where the change was effected. The \"Knowledge Consistency Checker\" (KCC) creates a replication topology of \"site links\" using the defined \"sites\" to manage traffic. Intrasite replication is frequent and automatic as a result of change notification, which triggers peers to begin a pull replication cycle. Intersite replication intervals are typically less frequent and do not use change notification by default, although this is configurable and can be made identical to intrasite replication.\n\nEach link can have a 'cost' (e.g., DS3, T1, ISDN etc.) and the KCC alters the site link topology accordingly. Replication may occur transitively through several site links on same-protocol \"site link bridges\", if the cost is low, although KCC automatically costs a direct site-to-site link lower than transitive connections. Site-to-site replication can be configured to occur between a \"bridgehead server\" in each site, which then replicates the changes to other DCs within the site. Replication for Active Directory zones is automatically configured when DNS is activated in the domain based by site.\n\nReplication of Active Directory uses Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) over IP (RPC/IP). Between Sites SMTP can be used for replication, but only for changes in the Schema, Configuration, or Partial Attribute Set (Global Catalog) GCs. SMTP cannot be used for replicating the default Domain partition.\n\nIn general, a network utilizing Active Directory has more than one licensed Windows server computer. Backup and restore of Active Directory is possible for a network with a single domain controller, but Microsoft recommends more than one domain controller to provide automatic failover protection of the directory. Domain controllers are also ideally single-purpose for directory operations only, and should not run any other software or role.\n\nCertain Microsoft products such as SQL Server and Exchange can interfere with the operation of a domain controller, necessitating isolation of these products on additional Windows servers. Combining them can make configuration or troubleshooting of either the domain controller or the other installed software more difficult. A business intending to implement Active Directory is therefore recommended to purchase a number of Windows server licenses, to provide for at least two separate domain controllers, and optionally, additional domain controllers for performance or redundancy, a separate file server, a separate Exchange server, a separate SQL Server, and so forth to support the various server roles.\n\nPhysical hardware costs for the many separate servers can be reduced through the use of virtualization, although for proper failover protection, Microsoft recommends not running multiple virtualized domain controllers on the same physical hardware.\n\nThe Active-Directory database, the \"directory store\", in Windows 2000 Server uses the JET Blue-based Extensible Storage Engine (ESE98) and is limited to 16 terabytes and 2 billion objects (but only 1 billion security principals) in each domain controller's database. Microsoft has created NTDS databases with more than 2 billion objects. (NT4's Security Account Manager could support no more than 40,000 objects). Called NTDS.DIT, it has two main tables: the \"data table\" and the \"link table\". Windows Server 2003 added a third main table for security descriptor single instancing.\n\nPrograms may access the features of Active Directory via the COM interfaces provided by \"Active Directory Service Interfaces\".\n\nFlexible Single Master Operations Roles (FSMO, pronounced \"fizz-mo\") operations are also known as operations master roles. Although domain controllers allow simultaneous updates in multiple places, certain operations are supported only on a single server. These operations are performed using the roles listed below:\n\nTo allow users in one domain to access resources in another, Active Directory uses trusts.\n\nTrusts inside a forest are automatically created when domains are created. The forest sets the default boundaries of trust, and implicit, transitive trust is automatic for all domains within a forest.\n\n\nWindows Server 2003 introduced the \"forest root trust\". This trust can be used to connect Windows Server 2003 forests if they are operating at the 2003 forest functional level. Authentication across this type of trust is Kerberos-based (as opposed to NTLM).\n\nForest trusts are transitive for all the domains the trusted forests. However, forest trusts are \"not\" transitive between forests.\n\nExample: Suppose that a two-way transitive forest trust exists between the forest root domains in Forest A and Forest B, and another two-way transitive forest trust exists between the forest root domains in Forest B and Forest C. Such a configuration lets users in Forest B access resources in any domain in either Forest A or Forest C, and users in Forest A or C can access resources in any domain in Forest B. However, it does \"not\" let users in Forest A access resources in Forest C, or vice versa. To let users in Forest A and Forest C share resources, a two-way transitive trust must exist between both forests.\n\nMicrosoft Active Directory management tools include:\n\nThese management tools may not provide enough functionality for efficient workflow in large environments. Some third-party solutions extend the administration and management capabilities. They provide essential features for a more convenient administration processes, such as automation, reports, integration with other services, etc.\n\nVarying levels of interoperability with Active Directory can be achieved on most Unix-like operating systems (including Unix, Linux, Mac OS X or Java and Unix-based programs) through standards-compliant LDAP clients, but these systems usually do not interpret many attributes associated with Windows components, such as Group Policy and support for one-way trusts.\n\nThird parties offer Active Directory integration for Unix-like platforms, including:\n\nThe schema additions shipped with Windows Server 2003 R2 include attributes that map closely enough to RFC 2307 to be generally usable. The reference implementation of RFC 2307, nss_ldap and pam_ldap provided by PADL.com, support these attributes directly. The default schema for group membership complies with RFC 2307bis (proposed). Windows Server 2003 R2 includes a Microsoft Management Console snap-in that creates and edits the attributes.\n\nAn alternative option is to use another directory service as non-Windows clients authenticate to this while Windows Clients authenticate to AD. Non-Windows clients include 389 Directory Server (formerly Fedora Directory Server, FDS), ViewDS Identity Solutions - ViewDS v7.2 XML Enabled Directory and Sun Microsystems Sun Java System Directory Server. The latter two both being able to perform two-way synchronization with AD and thus provide a \"deflected\" integration.\n\nAnother option is to use OpenLDAP with its \"translucent\" overlay, which can extend entries in any remote LDAP server with additional attributes stored in a local database. Clients pointed at the local database see entries containing both the remote and local attributes, while the remote database remains completely untouched.\n\nAdministration (querying, modifying, and monitoring) of Active Directory can be achieved via many scripting languages, including PowerShell, VBScript, JScript/JavaScript, Perl, Python, and Ruby. Free and non-free AD administration tools can help to simplify and possibly automate AD management tasks.\n\nAlso since October 2017 Amazon AWS offers integration with Microsoft Active Directory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1050286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1050286", "title": "Atlas Mira", "text": "Atlas Mira\n\nThe World Atlas () is the Soviet and later Russian atlas of the world.\n\nInitially Russian cartography could not glory in original work: the \"Atlas Marksa\" (1905), for example, was merely a translation of German \"Neuer Handatlas\" by Debes. The large \"Atlas Mira\" (1st Russian edition, 1954), with some 200,000 names meant a very special achievement. An English editions later followed (\"The World Atlas\", 2nd ed., 1967). A similar Soviet project \"Bolshoi Sovietskii Atlas Mira\", which was intended to be the most comprehensive atlas of modern times, remained, however, incomplete due to WWII; only two out of three planned volumes (1937/39) were published.\n\nThe first edition was made in 1954. Contains 283 pages of maps with a separated book of geographical index carries 205000 items that cover all of the maps. \n\nOn the first page of the atlas is a vignette with a world map inside a five-pointed star, prominently depicting the Soviet Union. Thereafter is the title page, on the reverse side the decision of the Council of Ministers of the USSR to publish the atlas, a page with the names of the editorial board, a page with the other editors, a preface of two pages and the table of contents in two pages.\n\nFirst in the map section are two pages with a key to map symbols – also given as a separate sheet. Thereafter are the 283 pages with maps and finally a page with more names of collaborators, technical information and at the end the number of copies printed (25,000).\nMany maps are on a double page, with a total width of 63 cm. The reverse side of the left-hand page which comes first in leafing through atlas – the 'title side' – usually has a scheme with the current map and the adjacent sheets. A map is printed on the reverse side of almost all right-hand pages. Some maps are even wider than 63 cm and therefore have a foldout; see the table of contents.\n\nThe index, a separate volume, has a title page, a preface of two pages, a page on how to use the index, and a page with the abbreviations used. Thereafter is the actual index of 545 pages. In the end are 14 pages with translations of non-Russian geographical terms and words that occur in place names.\n\nAfter the key to map symbols the map section has 5 pages of world maps, 3 pages with historical maps, 76 pages with maps of the Soviet Union en 53 pages with maps of Western Europe – meaning in this case the part of Europe that is outside the Soviet Union. The non-Soviet part of Asia – here also named 'foreign Asia' – covers 53 pages, Africa 18, the Americas 57 and Australia-Oceania 12. In the end are 6 pages with maps of the Atlkantic Ocean, the mediterranean Sea and the Polar regions. See also the list of map names in transliteration and translation.\n\nMost sections start with a physical map – with contour lines and hypsometric coloring – a political map and a map of the communications in the region in question. The rest of each section consists of physical maps at a larger scale; see the list of maps, inset maps and scale.\nOn the reverse sides of many right-hand pages are enlargements of regions on the 'main map'. Contrary to the main maps, on these maps the relief is often indicated with shading, which gives a more spatial effect. In the section on the Soviet Union each Union Republic has a map of its administrative subdivision in political coloring. A political map is sometimes also given for other regions. On some maps the forests are indicated; details can be found in the list of types of maps.\n\nThe size of the atlas is considerable and so is the number of maps. Many regions are therefore depicted in detail, often at a scale of 1:5,000,000, 1:2,500,000 or 1:1,250,000. This has been done in particular for the Soviet Union itself and the 'friendly' states in the world – Eastern Europe, China – but also for Western Europe and the United States. Remarkably these detailed maps are missing for Yugoslavia and the Netherlands. The environs of metropoles are sometimes given in (inset) maps at a scale of 1:250,000. Curiously, for the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and China these city maps are absent.\n\nIn the preface (see also the English translation) account is given of the composition of the atlas. There is also an overview and account of the map projections used in the atlas.\n\nA masterpiece of cartography, this Soviet atlas was published in Moscow in 1967 by the Chief Directorate of Geodesy and Cartography under the Council of Ministers of the USSR (GUGK; ). \nThis was the second edition of \"The World Atlas\", first published in 1954. Although a lot of other atlases were published during the years in the Soviet Union under the name \"Atlas Mira\" (including pocket atlases), this one is the biggest and most detailed and might be probably denoted as \"Great Atlas of the World\" to distinguish it from all other smaller editions. Still on the cover it simply reads \"The World Atlas\" below the coat of arms of the Soviet Union in relief. It was published simultaneously in Russian and English in 25,000 copies and was priced at 42 Soviet rubles. Special cartographic paper and special cartographic offset ink were used. The Atlas was dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the October Revolution. The Atlas has a full 250 pages of colour maps, majority of them physical, the index being a separate book, comprising some 200,000 entries. The size of the Atlas is . \nThe maps in the Atlas are arranged in groups starting with general world maps, maps of the Soviet Union and maps of the continents. The world maps are in the 1:50,000,000 scale. The Soviet Union is treated basically as a separate continent with its own physical, political, transportation and time zone maps. It is mentioned in the preface that the number of the maps of the Soviet Union is decreased compared to the previous edition, because of the interim publishing of a separate atlas specifically dedicated to the Soviet Union. For each continent there is a general physical map as an introduction (1:10,000,000 to 1:25,000,000), followed by political and communications maps. This is followed by a number of general regional maps (1:1,500,000 to 1:750,000) and supplemented for important areas by large scale maps (1:250,000 to 1:750,000). 18 different colours are used from deep blue for the ocean deeps to dark brown and white for the highest mountains and glaciers. Relief shading is used for delineating relief along with contour lines. All scales are metric. Tint for elevation is predominately used in larger scale maps: 1:1,500,000 and higher. The shadows and colours combined give an almost stereo impression, the relief popping up out of the pages. Many major cities in the world are shown on separate maps or insets, typically in 1:250,000 scale as well as important areas like the Panama Canal or Palestine, along with detailed maps of small islands in the world oceans.\n\nThe third edition was made in 1999 by the Federal Service of Geodesy and Cartography of Russia. As a revised and updated world atlas since it first published in 1954, this atlas which combined maps and index into one volume is the only world atlas that guaranteeing that users will find the most current geographic information. That is the most authoritative atlas on the market only in both Russian and English. \nProviding the finest global coverage available, this Atlas is not only the best-selling volume of its size and price, but also the benchmark by which all other atlases are measured.\nThis atlas in third edition bringing each featured landscape to life with detailed terrain models and color schemes and offering maps of unsurpassed quality, this atlas features the main atlas, and an easy-to-reference index of all 240,000 place names.\nAll maps enjoy a full double-page spread, with continents broken down into 286 pages of carefully selected maps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46474403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46474403", "title": "Author name disambiguation", "text": "Author name disambiguation\n\nAuthor name disambiguation, also called personal disambiguation or disambiguation of people's names, is a type of disambiguation and record linkage applied to the names of individual people. The process could, for example, distinguish individuals with the name \"John Smith\".\n\nAn editor may apply the process to scholarly documents where the goal is to find all mentions of the same author and cluster them together. Authors of scholarly documents often share names which makes it hard to distinguish each author's work. Hence, author name disambiguation aims to find all publications that belong to a given author and distinguish them from publications of other authors who share the same name.\n\nTypical approaches for author name disambiguation rely on information about the authors such as their affiliations, email addresses, year of publication, co-authors, topic information to distinguish between authors. This information can be used to train a machine learning classifier to decide whether two author mentions refer to the same author or not. Other approaches use heuristics to distinguish between authors.\n\nResearch use various algorithms to do disambiguation.\n\nThere are multiple reasons that cause author names to be ambiguous, among which: individuals may publish under multiple names for variety of reasons including different spelling, misspelling, name change due to marriage, or the use of middle names and initials.\n\nMotivations for disambiguating individuals include identifying inventors from patents.\n\nAuthor name disambiguation is only one record linkage problem in the scholarly data domain. Closely related, and potentially mutually beneficial problems include: organisation (affiliation) disambiguation, as well as conference or publication venue disambiguation, since data publishers often use different names or aliases for these entities. \n"}
{"id": "4152291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4152291", "title": "Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia", "text": "Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia\n\nBenet's Reader's Encyclopedia is a reference work devoted to world literature. The first volume appeared in 1948, edited by Pulitzer Prize-winner William Rose Benét, older brother of the writer Stephen Vincent Benét. It was based on Ebenezer Cobham Brewer's classic \"Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\", and offered a compendium of curious information (such as \"Aani. In Egyptian mythology, the dog-headed ape sacred to the god Thoth\"). The second edition appeared in 1965, and added illustrations.\n\nMore widely available is the third edition, edited by Katherine Baker Siepmann and published in 1987. While this edition no longer mentions such arcane figures as Aani, it offers substantial background on a wide variety of literary figures and increased the international scope of the volume. Jeppe Aakjaer, for instance, appears as a novelist who \"was intensely concerned with social misery and the need for reform,\" though he is \"best known\" for his \"lyric poetry, in which he celebrates the courage of the peasants and the beauties of his native Jutland.\"\n\nIn 1996, the fourth edition of this useful reference work appeared. The fifth and to date most recent edition was released in December 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3986", "title": "Benjamin Franklin", "text": "Benjamin Franklin\n\nBenjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790) was an American polymath and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, freemason, postmaster, scientist, inventor, humorist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod, bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other inventions. He founded many civic organizations, including the Library Company, Philadelphia's first fire department and the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nFranklin earned the title of \"The First American\" for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity, initially as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies. As the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation. Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment. In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, \"In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat.\" To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin \"the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become.\"\n\nFranklin became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies, publishing the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" at the age of 23. He became wealthy publishing this and \"Poor Richard's Almanack\", which he authored under the pseudonym \"Richard Saunders\". After 1767, he was associated with the \"Pennsylvania Chronicle\", a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of British policies.\n\nHe pioneered and was first president of Academy and College of Philadelphia which opened in 1751 and later became the University of Pennsylvania. He organized and was the first secretary of the American Philosophical Society and was elected president in 1769. Franklin became a national hero in America as an agent for several colonies when he spearheaded an effort in London to have the Parliament of Great Britain repeal the unpopular Stamp Act. An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations. His efforts proved vital for the American Revolution in securing shipments of crucial munitions from France.\n\nHe was promoted to deputy postmaster-general for the British colonies in 1753, having been Philadelphia postmaster for many years, and this enabled him to set up the first national communications network. During the revolution, he became the first United States Postmaster General. He was active in community affairs and colonial and state politics, as well as national and international affairs. From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania. He initially owned and dealt in slaves but, by the 1750s, he argued against slavery from an economic perspective and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.\n\nHis colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and his status as one of America's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored more than two centuries after his death on coinage and the $100 bill, warships, and the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, and corporations, as well as countless cultural references.\n\nBenjamin Franklin's father, Josiah Franklin, was a tallow chandler, a soaper and candlemaker. Josiah was born at Ecton, Northamptonshire, England on December 23, 1657, the son of blacksmith and farmer Thomas Franklin, and Jane White. Benjamin's father and all four of his grandparents were born in England. Josiah had seventeen children with his two wives. He married his first wife, Anne Child, in about 1677 in Ecton and immigrated with her to Boston in 1683; they had three children before immigrating, and four after. Following her death, Josiah was married to Abiah Folger on July 9, 1689 in the Old South Meeting House by Samuel Willard. Benjamin, their eighth child, was Josiah Franklin's fifteenth child and tenth and last son.\n\nAbiah Folger was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, on August 15, 1667, to Peter Folger, a miller and schoolteacher, and his wife, Mary Morrell Folger, a former indentured servant. She came from a Puritan family that was among the first Pilgrims to flee to Massachusetts for religious freedom, when King Charles I of England began persecuting Puritans. They sailed for Boston in 1635. Her father was \"the sort of rebel destined to transform colonial America.\" As clerk of the court, he was jailed for disobeying the local magistrate in defense of middle-class shopkeepers and artisans in conflict with wealthy landowners. Ben Franklin followed in his grandfather's footsteps in his battles against the wealthy Penn family that owned the Pennsylvania Colony.\n\nBenjamin Franklin was born on Milk Street, in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 17, 1706, and baptized at Old South Meeting House. He was one of seventeen children born to Josiah Franklin, and one of ten born by Josiah's second wife, Abiah Folger; the daughter of Peter Foulger and Mary Morrill. Among Benjamin's siblings were his older brother James and his younger sister Jane.\n\nJosiah wanted Ben to attend school with the clergy, but only had enough money to send him to school for two years. He attended Boston Latin School but did not graduate; he continued his education through voracious reading. Although \"his parents talked of the church as a career\" for Franklin, his schooling ended when he was ten. He worked for his father for a time, and at 12 he became an apprentice to his brother James, a printer, who taught Ben the printing trade. When Ben was 15, James founded \"The New-England Courant\", which was the first truly independent newspaper in the colonies.\n\nWhen denied the chance to write a letter to the paper for publication, Franklin adopted the pseudonym of \"Silence Dogood\", a middle-aged widow. Mrs. Dogood's letters were published, and became a subject of conversation around town. Neither James nor the \"Courant\"'s readers were aware of the ruse, and James was unhappy with Ben when he discovered the popular correspondent was his younger brother. Franklin was an advocate of free speech from an early age. When his brother was jailed for three weeks in 1722 for publishing material unflattering to the governor, young Franklin took over the newspaper and had Mrs. Dogood (quoting \"Cato's Letters\") proclaim: \"Without freedom of thought there can be no such thing as wisdom and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech.\" Franklin left his apprenticeship without his brother's permission, and in so doing became a fugitive.\n\nAt age 17, Franklin ran away to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, seeking a new start in a new city. When he first arrived, he worked in several printer shops around town, but he was not satisfied by the immediate prospects. After a few months, while working in a printing house, Franklin was convinced by Pennsylvania Governor Sir William Keith to go to London, ostensibly to acquire the equipment necessary for establishing another newspaper in Philadelphia. Finding Keith's promises of backing a newspaper empty, Franklin worked as a typesetter in a printer's shop in what is now the Church of St Bartholomew-the-Great in the Smithfield area of London. Following this, he returned to Philadelphia in 1726 with the help of Thomas Denham, a merchant who employed Franklin as clerk, shopkeeper, and bookkeeper in his business.\n\nIn 1727, Benjamin Franklin, then 21, created the Junto, a group of \"like minded aspiring artisans and tradesmen who hoped to improve themselves while they improved their community.\" The Junto was a discussion group for issues of the day; it subsequently gave rise to many organizations in Philadelphia. The Junto was modeled after English coffeehouses that Franklin knew well, and which had become the center of the spread of Enlightenment ideas in Britain.\n\nReading was a great pastime of the Junto, but books were rare and expensive. The members created a library initially assembled from their own books after Franklin wrote:\n\nThis did not suffice, however. Franklin conceived the idea of a subscription library, which would pool the funds of the members to buy books for all to read. This was the birth of the Library Company of Philadelphia: its charter was composed by Franklin in 1731. In 1732, Franklin hired the first American librarian, Louis Timothee. The Library Company is now a great scholarly and research library.\n\nUpon Denham's death, Franklin returned to his former trade. In 1728, Franklin had set up a printing house in partnership with Hugh Meredith; the following year he became the publisher of a newspaper called \"The Pennsylvania Gazette\". The \"Gazette\" gave Franklin a forum for agitation about a variety of local reforms and initiatives through printed essays and observations. Over time, his commentary, and his adroit cultivation of a positive image as an industrious and intellectual young man, earned him a great deal of social respect. But even after Franklin had achieved fame as a scientist and statesman, he habitually signed his letters with the unpretentious 'B. Franklin, Printer.'\n\nIn 1732, Ben Franklin published the first German-language newspaper in America – \"Die Philadelphische Zeitung\" – although it failed after only one year, because four other newly founded German papers quickly dominated the newspaper market. Franklin printed Moravian religious books in German. Franklin often visited Bethlehem, Pennsylvania staying at the Moravian Sun Inn. In a 1751 pamphlet on demographic growth and its implications for the colonies, he called the Pennsylvania Germans \"Palatine Boors\" who could never acquire the \"Complexion\" of the English settlers and referred to \"Blacks and Tawneys\" as weakening the social structure of the colonies. Although Franklin apparently reconsidered shortly thereafter, and the phrases were omitted from all later printings of the pamphlet, his views may have played a role in his political defeat in 1764.\n\nFranklin saw the printing press as a device to instruct colonial Americans in moral virtue. In \"Benjamin Franklin's Journalism\", Ralph Frasca argues he saw this as a service to God, because he understood moral virtue in terms of actions, thus, doing good provides a service to God. Despite his own moral lapses, Franklin saw himself as uniquely qualified to instruct Americans in morality. He tried to influence American moral life through construction of a printing network based on a chain of partnerships from the Carolinas to New England. Franklin thereby invented the first newspaper chain. It was more than a business venture, for like many publishers since, he believed that the press had a public-service duty.\n\nWhen Franklin established himself in Philadelphia, shortly before 1730, the town boasted two \"wretched little\" news sheets, Andrew Bradford's \"The American Weekly Mercury\", and Samuel Keimer's \"Universal Instructor in all Arts and Sciences, and Pennsylvania Gazette\". This instruction in all arts and sciences consisted of weekly extracts from \"Chambers's Universal Dictionary\". Franklin quickly did away with all this when he took over the \"Instructor\" and made it \"The Pennsylvania Gazette\". The \"Gazette\" soon became Franklin's characteristic organ, which he freely used for satire, for the play of his wit, even for sheer excess of mischief or of fun. From the first, he had a way of adapting his models to his own uses. The series of essays called \"The Busy-Body\", which he wrote for Bradford's \"American Mercury\" in 1729, followed the general Addisonian form, already modified to suit homelier conditions. The thrifty Patience, in her busy little shop, complaining of the useless visitors who waste her valuable time, is related to the ladies who address Mr. Spectator. The Busy-Body himself is a true Censor Morum, as Isaac Bickerstaff had been in the \"Tatler\". And a number of the fictitious characters, Ridentius, Eugenius, Cato, and Cretico, represent traditional 18th-century classicism. Even this Franklin could use for contemporary satire, since Cretico, the \"sowre Philosopher\", is evidently a portrait of Franklin's rival, Samuel Keimer.\n\nThe \"Pennsylvania Gazette\", like most other newspapers of the period, was often poorly printed. Franklin was busy with a hundred matters outside of his printing office, and never seriously attempted to raise the mechanical standards of his trade. Nor did he ever properly edit or collate the chance medley of stale items that passed for news in the \"Gazette.\" His influence on the practical side of journalism was minimal. On the other hand, his advertisements of books show his very great interest in popularizing secular literature. Undoubtedly his paper contributed to the broader culture that distinguished Pennsylvania from her neighbors before the Revolution. Like many publishers, Franklin built up a book shop in his printing office; he took the opportunity to read new books before selling them. \n\nFranklin had mixed success in his plan to establish an inter-colonial network of newspapers that would produce a profit for him and disseminate virtue. He began in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1731. After the second editor died, his widow Elizabeth Timothy took over and made it a success, 1738–46. She was one of the colonial era's first woman printers. For three decades Franklin maintained a close business relationship with her and her son Peter who took over in 1746. The \"Gazette\" had a policy of impartiality in political debates, while creating the opportunity for public debate, which encouraged others to challenge authority. Editor Peter Timothy avoided blandness and crude bias, and after 1765 increasingly took a patriotic stand in the growing crisis with Great Britain. However, Franklin's \"Connecticut Gazette\" (1755–68) proved unsuccessful.\n\nIn 1730 or 1731, Franklin was initiated into the local Masonic lodge. He became a Grand Master in 1734, indicating his rapid rise to prominence in Pennsylvania. The same year, he edited and published the first Masonic book in the Americas, a reprint of James Anderson's \"Constitutions of the Free-Masons\". He was the Secretary of St. John's Lodge in Philadelphia from 1735 to 1738. Franklin remained a Freemason for the rest of his life.\n\nAt age 17 in 1723, Franklin proposed to 15-year-old Deborah Read while a boarder in the Read home. At that time, Read's mother was wary of allowing her young daughter to marry Franklin, who was on his way to London at Governor Sir William Keith's request, and also because of his financial instability. Her own husband had recently died, and she declined Franklin's request to marry her daughter.\n\nWhile Franklin was in London, his trip was extended, and there were problems with Sir William's promises of support. Perhaps because of the circumstances of this delay, Deborah married a man named John Rodgers. This proved to be a regrettable decision. Rodgers shortly avoided his debts and prosecution by fleeing to Barbados with her dowry, leaving her behind. Rodgers's fate was unknown, and because of bigamy laws, Deborah was not free to remarry.\n\nFranklin established a common-law marriage with Deborah Read on September 1, 1730. They took in Franklin's recently acknowledged young illegitimate son William and raised him in their household. They had two children together. Their son, Francis Folger Franklin, was born in October 1732 and died of smallpox in 1736. Their daughter, Sarah \"Sally\" Franklin, was born in 1743 and grew up to marry Richard Bache, have seven children, and look after her father in his old age.\n\nDeborah's fear of the sea meant that she never accompanied Franklin on any of his extended trips to Europe, and another possible reason why they spent so much time apart is that he may have blamed her for preventing their son Francis from being vaccinated against the disease that subsequently killed him. Deborah wrote to him in November 1769 saying she was ill due to \"dissatisfied distress\" from his prolonged absence, but he did not return until his business was done. Deborah Read Franklin died of a stroke in 1774, while Franklin was on an extended mission to England; he returned in 1775.\n\nIn 1730, 24-year-old Franklin publicly acknowledged the existence of his son William, who was deemed \"illegitimate,\" as he was born out of wedlock, and raised him in his household. His mother's identity is unknown. He was educated in Philadelphia. Beginning at about age 30, William studied law in London in the early 1760s. He fathered an illegitimate son, William Temple Franklin, born February 22, 1762. The boy's mother was never identified, and he was placed in foster care. Later in 1762, William married Elizabeth Downes, daughter of a planter from Barbados. After William passed the bar, his father helped him gain an appointment in 1763 as the last Royal Governor of New Jersey.\n\nA Loyalist, William and his father eventually broke relations over their differences about the American Revolutionary War. The elder Franklin could never accept William's position. Deposed in 1776 by the revolutionary government of New Jersey, William was arrested at his home in Perth Amboy at the Proprietary House and imprisoned for a time. The younger Franklin went to New York in 1782, which was still occupied by British troops. He became leader of the Board of Associated Loyalists—a quasi-military organization, headquartered in New York City. They initiated guerrilla forays into New Jersey, southern Connecticut, and New York counties north of the city. When British troops evacuated from New York, William Franklin left with them and sailed to England. He settled in London, never to return to North America. In the preliminary peace talks in 1782 with Britain, \"... Benjamin Franklin insisted that loyalists who had borne arms against the United States would be excluded from this plea (that they be given a general pardon). He was undoubtedly thinking of William Franklin.\"\n\nIn 1733, Franklin began to publish the noted \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" (with content both original and borrowed) under the pseudonym Richard Saunders, on which much of his popular reputation is based. Franklin frequently wrote under pseudonyms. Although it was no secret that Franklin was the author, his Richard Saunders character repeatedly denied it. \"Poor Richard's Proverbs\", adages from this almanac, such as \"A penny saved is twopence dear\" (often misquoted as \"A penny saved is a penny earned\") and \"Fish and visitors stink in three days\", remain common quotations in the modern world. Wisdom in folk society meant the ability to provide an apt adage for any occasion, and Franklin's readers became well prepared. He sold about ten thousand copies per year—it became an institution. In 1741 Franklin began publishing \"The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British Plantations in America\", the first such monthly magazine of this type published in America.\n\nIn 1758, the year he ceased writing for the Almanack, he printed \"Father Abraham's Sermon\", also known as \"The Way to Wealth\". Franklin's autobiography, begun in 1771 but published after his death, has become one of the classics of the genre.\n\nDaylight saving time (DST) is often erroneously attributed to a 1784 satire that Franklin published anonymously. Modern DST was first proposed by George Vernon Hudson in 1895.\n\nFranklin was a prodigious inventor. Among his many creations were the lightning rod, glass harmonica (a glass instrument, not to be confused with the metal harmonica), Franklin stove, bifocal glasses and the flexible urinary catheter. Franklin never patented his inventions; in his autobiography he wrote, \"... as we enjoy great advantages from the inventions of others, we should be glad of an opportunity to serve others by any invention of ours; and this we should do freely and generously.\"\n\nFranklin started exploring the phenomenon of electricity in 1746 when he saw some of Archibald Spencer's lectures using static electricity for illustrations. Franklin proposed that \"vitreous\" and \"resinous\" electricity were not different types of \"electrical fluid\" (as electricity was called then), but the same \"fluid\" under different pressures. (The same proposal was made independently that same year by William Watson.) Franklin was the first to label them as positive and negative respectively, and he was the first to discover the principle of conservation of charge. In 1748 he constructed a multiple plate capacitor, that he called an \"electrical battery\" (not to be confused with Volta's pile) by placing eleven panes of glass sandwiched between lead plates, suspended with silk cords and connected by wires.\n\nIn recognition of his work with electricity, Franklin received the Royal Society's Copley Medal in 1753, and in 1756 he became one of the few 18th-century Americans elected as a Fellow of the Society. He received honorary degrees from Harvard and Yale universities (his first). The cgs unit of electric charge has been named after him: one \"franklin\" (Fr) is equal to one statcoulomb.\n\nFranklin advised Harvard University in its acquisition of new electrical laboratory apparatus after the complete loss of its original collection, in a fire which destroyed the original Harvard Hall in 1764. The collection he assembled would later become part of the Harvard Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, now on public display in its Science Center.\n\nFranklin briefly investigated electrotherapy, including the use of the electric bath. This work led to the field becoming widely known.\n\nIn 1750, he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm. On May 10, 1752, Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's experiment using a iron rod instead of a kite, and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud. On June 15 Franklin may possibly have conducted his well-known kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully extracting sparks from a cloud. Franklin described the experiment in the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" on October 19, 1752, without mentioning that he himself had performed it. This account was read to the Royal Society on December 21 and printed as such in the \"Philosophical Transactions\". Joseph Priestley published an account with additional details in his 1767 \"History and Present Status of Electricity\". Franklin was careful to stand on an insulator, keeping dry under a roof to avoid the danger of electric shock. Others, such as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann in Russia, were indeed electrocuted in performing lightning experiments during the months immediately following Franklin's experiment.\n\nIn his writings, Franklin indicates that he was aware of the dangers and offered alternative ways to demonstrate that lightning was electrical, as shown by his use of the concept of electrical ground. Franklin did not perform this experiment in the way that is often pictured in popular literature, flying the kite and waiting to be struck by lightning, as it would have been dangerous. Instead he used the kite to collect some electric charge from a storm cloud, showing that lightning was electrical. On October 19 in a letter to England with directions for repeating the experiment, Franklin wrote:\n\nFranklin's electrical experiments led to his invention of the lightning rod. He said that conductors with a sharp rather than a smooth point could discharge silently, and at a far greater distance. He surmised that this could help protect buildings from lightning by attaching \"upright Rods of Iron, made sharp as a Needle and gilt to prevent Rusting, and from the Foot of those Rods a Wire down the outside of the Building into the Ground; ... Would not these pointed Rods probably draw the Electrical Fire silently out of a Cloud before it came nigh enough to strike, and thereby secure us from that most sudden and terrible Mischief!\" Following a series of experiments on Franklin's own house, lightning rods were installed on the Academy of Philadelphia (later the University of Pennsylvania) and the Pennsylvania State House (later Independence Hall) in 1752.\n\nFranklin had a major influence on the emerging science of demography, or population studies. Thomas Malthus is noted for his rule of population growth and credited Franklin for discovering it. Kammen (1990) and Drake (2011) say Franklin's \"Observations on the Increase of Mankind\" (1755) stands alongside Ezra Stiles' \"Discourse on Christian Union\" (1760) as the leading works of eighteenth-century Anglo-American demography; Drake credits Franklin's \"wide readership and prophetic insight.\"\n\nIn the 1730s and 1740s, Franklin began taking notes on population growth, finding that the American population had the fastest growth rate on earth. Emphasizing that population growth depended on food supplies—a line of thought later developed by Thomas Malthus—Franklin emphasized the abundance of food and available farmland in America. He calculated that America's population was doubling every twenty years and would surpass that of England in a century. In 1751, he drafted \"Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, &c.\" Four years later, it was anonymously printed in Boston, and it was quickly reproduced in Britain, where it influenced the economist Adam Smith and later the demographer Thomas Malthus. Franklin's predictions alarmed British leaders who did not want to be surpassed by the colonies, so they became more willing to impose restrictions on the colonial economy.\n\nFranklin was also a pioneer in the study of slave demography, as shown in his 1755 essay.\n\nAs deputy postmaster, Franklin became interested in the North Atlantic Ocean circulation patterns. While in England in 1768, he heard a complaint from the Colonial Board of Customs: Why did it take British packet ships carrying mail several weeks longer to reach New York than it took an average merchant ship to reach Newport, Rhode Island? The merchantmen had a longer and more complex voyage because they left from London, while the packets left from Falmouth in Cornwall.\n\nFranklin put the question to his cousin Timothy Folger, a Nantucket whaler captain, who told him that merchant ships routinely avoided a strong eastbound mid-ocean current. The mail packet captains sailed dead into it, thus fighting an adverse current of . Franklin worked with Folger and other experienced ship captains, learning enough to chart the current and name it the Gulf Stream, by which it is still known today.\n\nFranklin published his Gulf Stream chart in 1770 in England, where it was completely ignored. Subsequent versions were printed in France in 1778 and the U.S. in 1786. The British edition of the chart, which was the original, was so thoroughly ignored that everyone assumed it was lost forever until Phil Richardson, a Woods Hole oceanographer and Gulf Stream expert, discovered it in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris in 1980. This find received front-page coverage in \"The New York Times\".\n\nIt took many years for British sea captains to adopt Franklin's advice on navigating the current; once they did, they were able to trim two weeks from their sailing time. In 1853, the oceanographer and cartographer Matthew Fontaine Maury noted that while Franklin charted and codified the Gulf Stream, he did not discover it:\n\nFranklin was, along with his contemporary Leonhard Euler, the only major scientist who supported Christiaan Huygens's wave theory of light, which was basically ignored by the rest of the scientific community. In the 18th century Newton's corpuscular theory was held to be true; only after Young's well-known slit experiment in 1803 were most scientists persuaded to believe Huygens's theory.\n\nOn October 21, 1743, according to popular myth, a storm moving from the southwest denied Franklin the opportunity of witnessing a lunar eclipse. Franklin was said to have noted that the prevailing winds were actually from the northeast, contrary to what he had expected. In correspondence with his brother, Franklin learned that the same storm had not reached Boston until after the eclipse, despite the fact that Boston is to the northeast of Philadelphia. He deduced that storms do not always travel in the direction of the prevailing wind, a concept that greatly influenced meteorology.\n\nAfter the Icelandic volcanic eruption of Laki in 1783, and the subsequent harsh European winter of 1784, Franklin made observations connecting the causal nature of these two separate events. He wrote about them in a lecture series.\n\nThough Benjamin Franklin has been most noted kite-wise with his lightning experiments, he has also been noted by many for his using kites to pull humans and ships across waterways. The George Pocock in the book \"A TREATISE on The Aeropleustic Art, or Navigation in the Air, by means of Kites, or Buoyant Sails\" noted being inspired by Benjamin Franklin's traction of his body by kite power across a waterway. In his later years he suggested using the technique for pulling ships.\n\nFranklin noted a principle of refrigeration by observing that on a very hot day, he stayed cooler in a wet shirt in a breeze than he did in a dry one. To understand this phenomenon more clearly Franklin conducted experiments. In 1758 on a warm day in Cambridge, England, Franklin and fellow scientist John Hadley experimented by continually wetting the ball of a mercury thermometer with ether and using bellows to evaporate the ether. With each subsequent evaporation, the thermometer read a lower temperature, eventually reaching . Another thermometer showed that the room temperature was constant at . In his letter \"Cooling by Evaporation\", Franklin noted that, \"One may see the possibility of freezing a man to death on a warm summer's day.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Faraday, Franklin's experiments on the non-conduction of ice are worth mentioning, although the law of the general effect of liquefaction on electrolytes is not attributed to Franklin. However, as reported in 1836 by Prof. A. D. Bache of the University of Pennsylvania, the law of the effect of heat on the conduction of bodies otherwise non-conductors, for example, glass, could be attributed to Franklin. Franklin writes, \"... A certain quantity of heat will make some bodies good conductors, that will not otherwise conduct ...\" and again, \"... And water, though naturally a good conductor, will not conduct well when frozen into ice.\"\n\nAn aging Franklin accumulated all his oceanographic findings in \"Maritime Observations\", published by the Philosophical Society's \"transactions\" in 1786. It contained ideas for sea anchors, catamaran hulls, watertight compartments, shipboard lightning rods and a soup bowl designed to stay stable in stormy weather.\n\nIn a 1772 letter to Joseph Priestley, Franklin lays out the earliest known description of the Pro & Con list, a common decision-making technique, now sometimes called a decisional balance sheet:\n\n... my Way is, to divide half a Sheet of Paper by a Line into two Columns, writing over the one \"Pro\", and over the other \"Con\". Then during three or four Days Consideration I put down under the different Heads short Hints of the different Motives that at different Times occur to me for or against the Measure. When I have thus got them all together in one View, I endeavour to estimate their respective Weights; and where I find two, one on each side, that seem equal, I strike them both out: If I find a Reason \"pro\" equal to some two Reasons \"con\", I strike out the three. If I judge some two Reasons \"con\" equal to some three Reasons \"pro\", I strike out the five; and thus proceeding I find at length where the Ballance lies; and if after a Day or two of farther Consideration nothing new that is of Importance occurs on either side, I come to a Determination accordingly.\n\nWhile traveling on a ship, Franklin had observed that the wake of a ship was diminished when the cooks scuttled their greasy water. He studied the effects on a large pond in Clapham Common, London. \"I fetched out a cruet of oil and dropt a little of it on the water ... though not more than a teaspoon full, produced an instant calm over a space of several yards square.\" He later used the trick to \"calm the waters\" by carrying \"a little oil in the hollow joint of my cane\".\n\nFranklin is known to have played the violin, the harp, and the guitar. He also composed music, notably a string quartet in early classical style. While he was in London, he developed a much-improved version of the glass harmonica, in which the glasses rotate on a shaft, with the player's fingers held steady, instead of the other way around. He worked with the London glassblower Charles James to create it, and instruments based on his mechanical version soon found their way to other parts of Europe. Joesph Haydn (a fan of Franklin's enlightened ideas) had a glass harmonica in his instrument collection. Beethoven wrote a sonata for the glass harmonica.\n\nFranklin was an avid chess player. He was playing chess by around 1733, making him the first chess player known by name in the American colonies. His essay on \"The Morals of Chess\" in \"Columbian\" magazine in December 1786 is the second known writing on chess in America. This essay in praise of chess and prescribing a code of behavior for the game has been widely reprinted and translated. He and a friend also used chess as a means of learning the Italian language, which both were studying; the winner of each game between them had the right to assign a task, such as parts of the Italian grammar to be learned by heart, to be performed by the loser before their next meeting.\n\nFranklin was able to play chess more frequently against stronger opposition during his many years as a civil servant and diplomat in England, where the game was far better established than in America. He was able to improve his playing standard by facing more experienced players during this period. He regularly attended Old Slaughter's Coffee House in London for chess and socializing, making many important personal contacts. While in Paris, both as a visitor and later as ambassador, he visited the famous Café de la Régence, which France's strongest players made their regular meeting place. No records of his games have survived, so it is not possible to ascertain his playing strength in modern terms.\n\nFranklin was inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame in 1999. The Franklin Mercantile Chess Club in Philadelphia, the second oldest chess club in the U.S., is named in his honor.\n\nIn 1736, Franklin created the Union Fire Company, one of the first volunteer firefighting companies in America. In the same year, he printed a new currency for New Jersey based on innovative anti-counterfeiting techniques he had devised. Throughout his career, Franklin was an advocate for paper money, publishing \"A Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency\" in 1729, and his printer printed money. He was influential in the more restrained and thus successful monetary experiments in the Middle Colonies, which stopped deflation without causing excessive inflation. In 1766 he made a case for paper money to the British House of Commons.\n\nAs he matured, Franklin began to concern himself more with public affairs. In 1743, he first devised a scheme for The Academy, Charity School, and College of Philadelphia. However, the person he had in mind to run the academy, Rev. Richard Peters, refused and Franklin put his ideas away until 1749, when he printed his own pamphlet, \"Proposals Relating to the Education of Youth in Pensilvania.\" He was appointed president of the Academy on November 13, 1749; the Academy and the Charity School opened on August 13, 1751.\n\nIn 1743, Franklin founded the American Philosophical Society to help scientific men discuss their discoveries and theories. He began the electrical research that, along with other scientific inquiries, would occupy him for the rest of his life, in between bouts of politics and moneymaking.\n\nIn 1747, Franklin (already a very wealthy man) retired from printing and went into other businesses. He created a partnership with his foreman, David Hall, which provided Franklin with half of the shop's profits for 18 years. This lucrative business arrangement provided leisure time for study, and in a few years he had made discoveries that gave him a reputation with educated persons throughout Europe and especially in France.\n\nFranklin became involved in Philadelphia politics and rapidly progressed. In October 1748, he was selected as a councilman, in June 1749 he became a Justice of the Peace for Philadelphia, and in 1751 he was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly. On August 10, 1753, Franklin was appointed deputy postmaster-general of British North America, (see below). His most notable service in domestic politics was his reform of the postal system, with mail sent out every week.\n\nIn 1751, Franklin and Dr. Thomas Bond obtained a charter from the Pennsylvania legislature to establish a hospital. Pennsylvania Hospital was the first hospital in what was to become the United States of America.\n\nIn 1752, Franklin organized the Philadelphia Contributionship, the first homeowner's insurance company in what would become the United States.\n\nBetween 1750 and 1753, the \"educational triumvirate\" of Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the American Dr. Samuel Johnson of Stratford, Connecticut, and the immigrant Scottish schoolteacher Dr. William Smith built on Franklin's initial scheme and created what Bishop James Madison, president of the College of William & Mary, called a \"new-model\" plan or style of American college. Franklin solicited, printed in 1752, and promoted an American textbook of moral philosophy from the American Dr. Samuel Johnson titled \"Elementa Philosophica\" to be taught in the new colleges to replace courses in denominational divinity.\n\nIn June 1753, Johnson, Franklin, and Smith met in Stratford. They decided the new-model college would focus on the professions, with classes taught in English instead of Latin, have subject matter experts as professors instead of one tutor leading a class for four years, and there would be no religious test for admission. Johnson went on to found King's College (now Columbia University) in New York City in 1754, while Franklin hired Smith as Provost of the College of Philadelphia, which opened in 1755. At its first commencement, on May 17, 1757, seven men graduated; six with a Bachelor of Arts and one as Master of Arts. It was later merged with the University of the State of Pennsylvania to become the University of Pennsylvania. The College was to become influential in guiding : in the Continental Congress, for example, over one third of the college-affiliated men who contributed the \"Declaration of Independence\" between September 4, 1774, and July 4, 1776, were affiliated with the College.\n\nIn 1753, both Harvard and Yale awarded him honorary degrees.\n\nIn 1754, he headed the Pennsylvania delegation to the Albany Congress. This meeting of several colonies had been requested by the Board of Trade in England to improve relations with the Indians and defense against the French. Franklin proposed a broad Plan of Union for the colonies. While the plan was not adopted, elements of it found their way into the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution.\n\nIn 1756, Franklin received an honorary master of arts degree from the College of William and Mary. Later in 1756, Franklin organized the Pennsylvania Militia (see \"Associated Regiment of Philadelphia\" under heading of Pennsylvania's 103rd Artillery and 111th Infantry Regiment at Continental Army). He used Tun Tavern as a gathering place to recruit a regiment of soldiers to go into battle against the Native American uprisings that beset the American colonies. Reportedly Franklin was elected \"Colonel\" of the Associated Regiment but declined the honor.\n\nFrom the mid 1750s to the mid 1770s, Franklin spent much of his time in London. Officially he was there on a political mission, but he used his time to further his scientific explorations as well, meeting many notable people.\n\nIn 1757, he was sent to England by the Pennsylvania Assembly as a colonial agent to protest against the political influence of the Penn family, the proprietors of the colony. He remained there for five years, striving to end the proprietors' prerogative to overturn legislation from the elected Assembly, and their exemption from paying taxes on their land. His lack of influential allies in Whitehall led to the failure of this mission.\n\nAt this time, many members of the Pennsylvania Assembly were feuding with William Penn's heirs, who controlled the colony as proprietors. After his return to the colony, Franklin led the \"anti-proprietary party\" in the struggle against the Penn family, and was elected Speaker of the Pennsylvania House in May 1764. His call for a change from proprietary to royal government was a rare political miscalculation, however: Pennsylvanians worried that such a move would endanger their political and religious freedoms. Because of these fears, and because of political attacks on his character, Franklin lost his seat in the October 1764 Assembly elections. The anti-proprietary party dispatched Franklin to England again to continue the struggle against the Penn family proprietorship. During this trip, events drastically changed the nature of his mission.\n\nIn London, Franklin opposed the 1765 Stamp Act. Unable to prevent its passage, he made another political miscalculation and recommended a friend to the post of stamp distributor for Pennsylvania. Pennsylvanians were outraged, believing that he had supported the measure all along, and threatened to destroy his home in Philadelphia. Franklin soon learned of the extent of colonial resistance to the Stamp Act, and he testified during the House of Commons proceedings that led to its repeal.\n\nWith this, Franklin suddenly emerged as the leading spokesman for American interests in England. He wrote popular essays on behalf of the colonies. Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts also appointed him as their agent to the Crown.\n\nFranklin lodged in a house in Craven Street, just off The Strand in central London. During his stays there, he developed a close friendship with his landlady, Margaret Stevenson, and her circle of friends and relations, in particular her daughter Mary, who was more often known as Polly. Their house, which he used on various lengthy missions from 1757 to 1775, is the only one of his residences to survive. It opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House museum in 2006.\n\nWhilst in London, Franklin became involved in radical politics. He belonged to a gentleman's club (which he called \"the honest Whigs\"), which held stated meetings, and included members such as Richard Price, the minister of Newington Green Unitarian Church who ignited the Revolution Controversy, and Andrew Kippis.\n\nIn 1756, Franklin had become a member of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (now the Royal Society of Arts or RSA), which had been founded in 1754 and whose early meetings took place in Covent Garden coffee shops. After his return to the United States in 1775, Franklin became the Society's Corresponding Member, continuing a close connection. The RSA instituted a Benjamin Franklin Medal in 1956 to commemorate the 250th anniversary of his birth and the 200th anniversary of his membership of the RSA.\n\nThe study of natural philosophy (what we would call science) drew him into overlapping circles of acquaintance. Franklin was, for example, a corresponding member of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which included such other scientific and industrial luminaries as Matthew Boulton, James Watt, Josiah Wedgwood and Erasmus Darwin; on occasion he visited them.\n\nIn 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded Franklin an honorary doctorate in recognition of his accomplishments. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate by Oxford University in 1762. Because of these honors, Franklin was often addressed as \"Dr. Franklin.\"\n\nFranklin also managed to secure an appointed post for his illegitimate son, William Franklin, by then an attorney, as Colonial Governor of New Jersey.\n\nWhile living in London in 1768, he developed a phonetic alphabet in \"A Scheme for a new Alphabet and a Reformed Mode of Spelling\". This reformed alphabet discarded six letters Franklin regarded as redundant (c, j, q, w, x, and y), and substituted six new letters for sounds he felt lacked letters of their own. This alphabet never caught on, and he eventually lost interest.\n\nFranklin used London as a base to travel. In 1771, he made short journeys through different parts of England, staying with Joseph Priestley at Leeds, Thomas Percival at Manchester and Erasmus Darwin at Lichfield.\n\nIn Scotland, he spent five days with Lord Kames near Stirling and stayed for three weeks with David Hume in Edinburgh. In 1759, he visited Edinburgh with his son, and recalled his conversations there as \"the \"densest\" happiness of my life\". In February 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. From then he was known as \"Doctor Franklin\". In October of the same year he was granted Freedom of the Borough of St Andrews.\n\nHe had never been to Ireland before, and met and stayed with Lord Hillsborough, who he believed was especially attentive. Franklin noted of him that \"all the plausible behaviour I have described is meant only, by patting and stroking the horse, to make him more patient, while the reins are drawn tighter, and the spurs set deeper into his sides.\" In Dublin, Franklin was invited to sit with the members of the Irish Parliament rather than in the gallery. He was the first American to receive this honor. While touring Ireland, he was moved by the level of poverty he saw. Ireland's economy was affected by the same trade regulations and laws of Britain that governed America. Franklin feared that America could suffer the same effects should Britain's \"colonial exploitation\" continue.\n\nFranklin spent two months in German lands in 1766, but his connections to the country stretched across a lifetime. He declared a debt of gratitude to German scientist Otto von Guericke for his early studies of electricity. Franklin also co-authored the first treaty of friendship between Prussia and America in 1785.\n\nIn September 1767, Franklin visited Paris with his usual traveling partner, Sir John Pringle. News of his electrical discoveries was widespread in France. His reputation meant that he was introduced to many influential scientists and politicians, and also to King Louis XV.\n\nOne line of argument in Parliament was that Americans should pay a share of the costs of the French and Indian War, and that therefore taxes should be levied on them. Franklin became the American spokesman in highly publicized testimony in Parliament in 1766. He stated that Americans already contributed heavily to the defense of the Empire. He said local governments had raised, outfitted and paid 25,000 soldiers to fight France—as many as Britain itself sent—and spent many millions from American treasuries doing so in the French and Indian War alone.\n\nIn 1773, Franklin published two of his most celebrated pro-American satirical essays: , and \"An Edict by the King of Prussia\".\n\nIn 1772, Franklin obtained private letters of Thomas Hutchinson and Andrew Oliver, governor and lieutenant governor of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, proving that they had encouraged the Crown to crack down on Bostonians. Franklin sent them to America, where they escalated the tensions. The letters were finally leaked to the public in the \"Boston Gazette\" in mid-June 1773, causing a political firestorm in Massachusetts and raising significant questions in England. The British began to regard him as the fomenter of serious trouble. Hopes for a peaceful solution ended as he was systematically ridiculed and humiliated by Solicitor-General Alexander Wedderburn, before the Privy Council on January 29, 1774. He returned to Philadelphia in March 1775, and abandoned his accommodationist stance.\n\nIn 1763, soon after Franklin returned to Pennsylvania from England for the first time, the western frontier was engulfed in a bitter war known as Pontiac's Rebellion. The Paxton Boys, a group of settlers convinced that the Pennsylvania government was not doing enough to protect them from American Indian raids, murdered a group of peaceful Susquehannock Indians and marched on Philadelphia. Franklin helped to organize a local militia to defend the capital against the mob. He met with the Paxton leaders and persuaded them to disperse. Franklin wrote a scathing attack against the racial prejudice of the Paxton Boys. \"If an \"Indian\" injures me\", he asked, \"does it follow that I may revenge that Injury on all \"Indians\"?\"\n\nHe provided an early response to British surveillance through his own network of counter-surveillance and manipulation. \"He waged a public relations campaign, secured secret aid, played a role in privateering expeditions, and churned out effective and inflammatory propaganda.\"\n\nBy the time Franklin arrived in Philadelphia on May 5, 1775, after his second mission to Great Britain, the American Revolution had begun—with fighting between colonials and British at Lexington and Concord. The New England militia had trapped the main British army in Boston. The Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously chose Franklin as their delegate to the Second Continental Congress. In June 1776, he was appointed a member of the Committee of Five that drafted the Declaration of Independence. Although he was temporarily disabled by gout and unable to attend most meetings of the Committee, Franklin made several \"small but important\" changes to the draft sent to him by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nAt the signing, he is quoted as having replied to a comment by John Hancock that they must all hang together: \"Yes, we must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.\"\n\nWell known as a printer and publisher, Franklin was appointed postmaster of Philadelphia in 1737, holding the office until 1753, when he and publisher William Hunter were named deputy postmasters–general of British North America, the first to hold the office. (Joint appointments were standard at the time, for political reasons.) Franklin was responsible for the British colonies from Pennsylvania north and east, as far as the island of Newfoundland. A post office for local and outgoing mail had been established in Halifax, Nova Scotia, by local stationer Benjamin Leigh, on April 23, 1754, but service was irregular. Franklin opened the first post office to offer regular, monthly mail in what would later become Canada, at Halifax, on December 9, 1755. Meantime, Hunter became postal administrator in Williamsburg, Virginia and oversaw areas south of Annapolis, Maryland. Franklin reorganized the service's accounting system, then improved speed of delivery between Philadelphia, New York and Boston. By 1761, efficiencies led to the first profits for the colonial post office.\n\nWhen the lands of New France were ceded to the British under the Treaty of Paris in 1763, the new British province of Quebec was created among them, and Franklin saw mail service expanded between Montreal, Trois-Rivières, Quebec City, and New York. For the greater part of his appointment, Franklin lived in England (from 1757 to 1762, and again from 1764 to 1774)—about three-quarters of his term. Eventually, his sympathies for the rebel cause in the American Revolution led to his dismissal on January 31, 1774.\n\nOn July 26, 1775, the Second Continental Congress established the United States Post Office and named Benjamin Franklin as the first United States Postmaster General. Franklin had been a postmaster for decades and was a natural choice for the position. He had just returned from England and was appointed chairman of a Committee of Investigation to establish a postal system. The report of the Committee, providing for the appointment of a postmaster general for the 13 American colonies, was considered by the Continental Congress on July 25 and 26. On July 26, 1775, Franklin was appointed Postmaster General, the first appointed under the Continental Congress. It established a postal system that became the United States Post Office, a system that continues to operate today.\n\nIn December 1776, Franklin was dispatched to France as commissioner for the United States. He took with him as secretary his 16-year-old grandson, William Temple Franklin. They lived in a home in the Parisian suburb of Passy, donated by Jacques-Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont, who supported the United States. Franklin remained in France until 1785. He conducted the affairs of his country toward the French nation with great success, which included securing a critical military alliance in 1778 and negotiating the Treaty of Paris (1783).\n\nAmong his associates in France was Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, comte de Mirabeau—a French Revolutionary writer, orator and statesman who in early 1791 would be elected president of the National Assembly. In July 1784, Franklin met with Mirabeau and contributed anonymous materials that the Frenchman used in his first signed work: \"Considerations sur l'ordre de Cincinnatus\". The publication was critical of the Society of the Cincinnati, established in the United States. Franklin and Mirabeau thought of it as a \"noble order\", inconsistent with the egalitarian ideals of the new republic.\n\nDuring his stay in France, Benjamin Franklin was active as a Freemason, serving as Venerable Master of the Lodge Les Neuf Sœurs from 1779 until 1781. He was the 106th member of the Lodge. In 1784, when Franz Mesmer began to publicize his theory of \"animal magnetism\" which was considered offensive by many, Louis XVI appointed a commission to investigate it. These included the chemist Antoine Lavoisier, the physician Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, the astronomer Jean Sylvain Bailly, and Benjamin Franklin. In 1781, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFranklin's advocacy for religious tolerance in France contributed to arguments made by French philosophers and politicians that resulted in Louis XVI's signing of the Edict of Versailles in November 1787. This edict effectively nullified the Edict of Fontainebleau, which had denied non-Catholics civil status and the right to openly practice their faith.\n\nFranklin also served as American minister to Sweden, although he never visited that country. He negotiated a treaty that was signed in April 1783. On August 27, 1783, in Paris, Franklin witnessed the world's first hydrogen balloon flight. \"Le Globe\", created by professor Jacques Charles and Les Frères Robert, was watched by a vast crowd as it rose from the Champ de Mars (now the site of the Eiffel Tower). Franklin became so enthusiastic that he subscribed financially to the next project to build a manned hydrogen balloon. On December 1, 1783, Franklin was seated in the special enclosure for honoured guests when \"La Charlière\" took off from the Jardin des Tuileries, piloted by Jacques Charles and Nicolas-Louis Robert.\n\nWhen he returned home in 1785, Franklin occupied a position only second to that of George Washington as the champion of American independence. Le Ray honored him with a commissioned portrait painted by Joseph Duplessis, which now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. After his return, Franklin became an abolitionist and freed his two slaves. He eventually became president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society.\n\nIn 1787, Franklin served as a delegate to the Philadelphia Convention. He held an honorary position and seldom engaged in debate. He is the only Founding Father who is a signatory of all four of the major documents of the founding of the United States: the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Paris and the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1787, a group of prominent ministers in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, proposed the foundation of a new college named in Franklin's honor. Franklin donated £200 towards the development of Franklin College (now called Franklin & Marshall College).\n\nBetween 1771 and 1788, he finished his autobiography. While it was at first addressed to his son, it was later completed for the benefit of mankind at the request of a friend.\n\nFranklin strongly supported the right to freedom of speech:\n\nSpecial balloting conducted October 18, 1785, unanimously elected Franklin the sixth president of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, replacing John Dickinson. The office was practically that of governor. Franklin held that office for slightly over three years, longer than any other, and served the constitutional limit of three full terms. Shortly after his initial election he was reelected to a full term on October 29, 1785, and again in the fall of 1786 and on October 31, 1787. In that capacity he served as host to the Constitutional Convention of 1787 in Philadelphia.\n\nLike the other advocates of republicanism, Franklin emphasized that the new republic could survive only if the people were virtuous. All his life he explored the role of civic and personal virtue, as expressed in \"Poor Richard's\" aphorisms. Franklin felt that organized religion was necessary to keep men good to their fellow men, but rarely attended religious services himself. When Franklin met Voltaire in Paris and asked his fellow member of the Enlightenment vanguard to bless his grandson, Voltaire said in English, \"God and Liberty\", and added, \"this is the only appropriate benediction for the grandson of Monsieur Franklin.\"\n\nFranklin's parents were both pious Puritans. The family attended the Old South Church, the most liberal Puritan congregation in Boston, where Benjamin Franklin was baptized in 1706. Franklin's father, a poor chandler, owned a copy of a book, \"Bonifacius: Essays to Do Good\", by the Puritan preacher and family friend Cotton Mather, which Franklin often cited as a key influence on his life. Franklin's first pen name, Silence Dogood, paid homage both to the book and to a widely known sermon by Mather. The book preached the importance of forming voluntary associations to benefit society. Franklin learned about forming do-good associations from Cotton Mather, but his organizational skills made him the most influential force in making voluntarism an enduring part of the American ethos.\n\nFranklin formulated a presentation of his beliefs and published it in 1728. It did not mention many of the Puritan ideas regarding salvation, the divinity of Jesus, or indeed much religious dogma. He clarified himself as a deist in his 1771 autobiography, although still considered himself a Christian. He retained a strong faith in a God as the wellspring of morality and goodness in man, and as a Providential actor in history responsible for American independence.\nIt was Ben Franklin who, at a critical impasse during the Constitutional Convention in June 1787, attempted to introduce the practice of daily common prayer with these words:\n\n... In the beginning of the contest with G. Britain, when we were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the Divine Protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a Superintending providence in our favor. ... And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance. I have lived, Sir, a long time and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth—that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings that \"except the Lord build they labor in vain that build it.\" I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders of Babel: ... I therefore beg leave to move—that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of Heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held in this Assembly every morning before we proceed to business, and that one or more of the Clergy of this City be requested to officiate in that service.\nThe motion met with resistance and was never brought to a vote.\n\nFranklin was an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical minister George Whitefield during the First Great Awakening. Franklin did not subscribe to Whitefield's theology, but he admired Whitefield for exhorting people to worship God through good works. Franklin published all of Whitefield's sermons and journals, thereby earning a lot of money and boosting the Great Awakening.\n\nWhen he stopped attending church, Franklin wrote in his autobiography:\n... Sunday being my studying day, I never was without some religious principles. I never doubted, for instance, the existence of the Deity; that He made the world, and governed it by His providence; that the most acceptable service of God was the doing good to man; that our souls are immortal; and that all crime will be punished, and virtue rewarded, either here or hereafter.\nFranklin retained a lifelong commitment to the Puritan virtues and political values he had grown up with, and through his civic work and publishing, he succeeded in passing these values into the American culture permanently. He had a \"passion for virtue\". These Puritan values included his devotion to egalitarianism, education, industry, thrift, honesty, temperance, charity and community spirit.\n\nThe classical authors read in the Enlightenment period taught an abstract ideal of republican government based on hierarchical social orders of king, aristocracy and commoners. It was widely believed that English liberties relied on their balance of power, but also hierarchal deference to the privileged class. \"Puritanism ... and the epidemic evangelism of the mid-eighteenth century, had created challenges to the traditional notions of social stratification\" by preaching that the Bible taught all men are equal, that the true value of a man lies in his moral behavior, not his class, and that all men can be saved. Franklin, steeped in Puritanism and an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical movement, rejected the salvation dogma, but embraced the radical notion of egalitarian democracy.\n\nFranklin's commitment to teach these values was itself something he gained from his Puritan upbringing, with its stress on \"inculcating virtue and character in themselves and their communities.\" These Puritan values and the desire to pass them on, were one of Franklin's quintessentially American characteristics, and helped shape the character of the nation. Franklin's writings on virtue were derided by some European authors, such as Jackob Fugger in his critical work \"Portrait of American Culture\". Max Weber considered Franklin's ethical writings a culmination of the Protestant ethic, which ethic created the social conditions necessary for the birth of capitalism.\n\nOne of Franklin's notable characteristics was his respect, tolerance and promotion of all churches. Referring to his experience in Philadelphia, he wrote in his autobiography, \"new Places of worship were continually wanted, and generally erected by voluntary Contribution, my Mite for such purpose, whatever might be the Sect, was never refused.\" \"He helped create a new type of nation that would draw strength from its religious pluralism.\" The evangelical revivalists who were active mid-century, such as Franklin's friend and preacher, George Whitefield, were the greatest advocates of religious freedom, \"claiming liberty of conscience to be an 'inalienable right of every rational creature.'\" Whitefield's supporters in Philadelphia, including Franklin, erected \"a large, new hall, that ... could provide a pulpit to anyone of any belief.\" Franklin's rejection of dogma and doctrine and his stress on the God of ethics and morality and civic virtue made him the \"prophet of tolerance.\" Franklin composed \"A Parable Against Persecution\", an apocryphal 51st chapter of Genesis in which God teaches Abraham the duty of tolerance. While he was living in London in 1774, he was present at the birth of British Unitarianism, attending the inaugural session of the Essex Street Chapel, at which Theophilus Lindsey drew together the first avowedly Unitarian congregation in England; this was somewhat politically risky, and pushed religious tolerance to new boundaries, as a denial of the doctrine of the Trinity was illegal until the 1813 Act.\n\nAlthough Franklin's parents had intended for him to have a career in the Church, Franklin as a young man adopted the Enlightenment religious belief in deism, that God's truths can be found entirely through nature and reason. \"I soon became a thorough Deist.\" As a young man he rejected Christian dogma in a 1725 pamphlet \"A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure and Pain\", which he later saw as an embarrassment, while simultaneously asserting that God is \"all wise, all good, all powerful.\" He defended his rejection of religious dogma with these words: \"I think opinions should be judged by their influences and effects; and if a man holds none that tend to make him less virtuous or more vicious, it may be concluded that he holds none that are dangerous, which I hope is the case with me.\" After the disillusioning experience of seeing the decay in his own moral standards, and those of two friends in London whom he had converted to Deism, Franklin turned back to a belief in the importance of organized religion, on the pragmatic grounds that without God and organized churches, man will not be good. Moreover, because of his proposal that prayers be said in the Constitutional Convention of 1787, many have contended that in his later life Franklin became a pious Christian.\n\nAccording to David Morgan, Franklin was a proponent of religion in general. He prayed to \"Powerful Goodness\" and referred to God as \"the infinite\". John Adams noted that Franklin was a mirror in which people saw their own religion: \"The Catholics thought him almost a Catholic. The Church of England claimed him as one of them. The Presbyterians thought him half a Presbyterian, and the Friends believed him a wet Quaker.\" Whatever else Franklin was, concludes Morgan, \"he was a true champion of generic religion.\" In a letter to Richard Price, Franklin stated that he believed that religion should support itself without help from the government, claiming, \"When a Religion is good, I conceive that it will support itself; and, when it cannot support itself, and God does not take care to support, so that its Professors are oblig'd to call for the help of the Civil Power, it is a sign, I apprehend, of its being a bad one.\"\n\nIn 1790, just about a month before he died, Franklin wrote a letter to Ezra Stiles, president of Yale University, who had asked him his views on religion:\n\nOn July 4, 1776, Congress appointed a three-member committee composed of Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and John Adams to design the Great Seal of the United States. Franklin's proposal (which was not adopted) featured the motto: \"Rebellion to Tyrants is Obedience to God\" and a scene from the Book of Exodus, with Moses, the Israelites, the pillar of fire, and George III depicted as pharaoh. The design that was produced was never acted upon by Congress, and the Great Seal's design was not finalized until a third committee was appointed in 1782.\n\nFranklin sought to cultivate his character by a plan of 13 virtues, which he developed at age 20 (in 1726) and continued to practice in some form for the rest of his life. His autobiography lists his 13 virtues as:\n\n\nFranklin did not try to work on them all at once. Instead, he would work on one and only one each week \"leaving all others to their ordinary chance.\" While Franklin did not live completely by his virtues, and by his own admission he fell short of them many times, he believed the attempt made him a better man contributing greatly to his success and happiness, which is why in his autobiography, he devoted more pages to this plan than to any other single point; in his autobiography Franklin wrote, \"I hope, therefore, that some of my descendants may follow the example and reap the benefit.\"\n\nFranklin owned as many as seven slaves, two males who worked in his household and his shop. Franklin posted paid ads for the sale of slaves and for the capture of runaway slaves and allowed the sale of slaves in his general store. Franklin profited from both the international and domestic slave trade, even criticizing slaves who had run off to join the British Army during the colonial wars of the 1740s and 1750s. Franklin, however, later became a \"cautious abolitionist\" and became an outspoken critic of landed gentry slavery. In 1758, Franklin advocated the opening of a school for the education of black slaves in Philadelphia. Franklin took two slaves to England with him, Peter and King, and King left his service there in 1756: by 1758 he was working for \"a lady in Suffolk\". Whether Franklin could have compelled King's return is open to doubt in the light of earlier English Common Law decisions and the subsequent case of Shanley v Harvey, but in fact he did not do so.\n\nAfter returning from England in 1762, Franklin became more anti-slavery. By 1770, Franklin had freed his slaves and attacked the system of slavery and the international slave trade. Franklin, however, refused to publicly debate the issue of slavery at the 1787 Constitutional Convention. Franklin tended to take both sides of the issue of slavery, never fully divesting himself from the institution.\n\nIn his later years, as Congress was forced to deal with the issue of slavery, Franklin wrote several essays that stressed the importance of the abolition of slavery and of the integration of blacks into American society. These writings included:\n\n\nIn 1790, Quakers from New York and Pennsylvania presented their petition for abolition to Congress. Their argument against slavery was backed by the Pennsylvania Abolitionist Society and its president, Benjamin Franklin.\n\nFranklin suffered from obesity throughout his middle-aged and later years, which resulted in multiple health problems, particularly gout, which worsened as he aged. In poor health during the signing of the US Constitution in 1787, he was rarely seen in public from then until his death.\n\nBenjamin Franklin died from pleuritic attack at his home in Philadelphia on April 17, 1790, at age 84. His death is described in the book \"The Life of Benjamin Franklin\", quoting from the account of Dr. John Jones:\n\n... when the pain and difficulty of breathing entirely left him, and his family were flattering themselves with the hopes of his recovery, when an imposthume, which had formed itself in his lungs, suddenly burst, and discharged a quantity of matter, which he continued to throw up while he had power; but, as that failed, the organs of respiration became gradually oppressed; a calm, lethargic state succeeded; and on the 17th instant (April 1790), about eleven o'clock at night, he quietly expired, closing a long and useful life of eighty-four years and three months.\nApproximately 20,000 people attended his funeral. He was interred in Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia. In 1728, aged 22, Franklin wrote what he hoped would be his own epitaph:\n\nThe Body of B. Franklin Printer; Like the Cover of an old Book, Its Contents torn out, And stript of its Lettering and Gilding, Lies here, Food for Worms. But the Work shall not be wholly lost: For it will, as he believ'd, appear once more, In a new & more perfect Edition, Corrected and Amended By the Author.\n\nFranklin's actual grave, however, as he specified in his final will, simply reads \"Benjamin and Deborah Franklin\".\n\nA signer of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, Franklin is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. His pervasive influence in the early history of the nation has led to his being jocularly called \"the only President of the United States who was never President of the United States.\" Franklin's likeness is ubiquitous. Since 1928, it has adorned American $100 bills, which are sometimes referred to in slang as \"Benjamins\" or \"Franklins.\" From 1948 to 1963, Franklin's portrait was on the half dollar. He has appeared on a $50 bill and on several varieties of the $100 bill from 1914 and 1918. Franklin appears on the $1,000 Series EE Savings bond. Philadelphia's Benjamin Franklin Parkway (a major thoroughfare) and Benjamin Franklin Bridge (the first major bridge to connect Philadelphia with New Jersey) are named in his honor.\n\nIn 1976, as part of a bicentennial celebration, Congress dedicated a marble statue in Philadelphia's Franklin Institute as the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial. Many of Franklin's personal possessions are also on display at the Institute, one of the few national memorials located on private property.\n\nIn London, his house at 36 Craven Street, which is the only surviving former residence of Benjamin Franklin, was first marked with a blue plaque and has since been opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House. In 1998, workmen restoring the building dug up the remains of six children and four adults hidden below the home. \"The Times\" reported on February 11, 1998:\n\nInitial estimates are that the bones are about 200 years old and were buried at the time Franklin was living in the house, which was his home from 1757 to 1762 and from 1764 to 1775. Most of the bones show signs of having been dissected, sawn or cut. One skull has been drilled with several holes. Paul Knapman, the Westminster Coroner, said yesterday: \"I cannot totally discount the possibility of a crime. There is still a possibility that I may have to hold an inquest.\n\nThe Friends of Benjamin Franklin House (the organization responsible for the restoration) note that the bones were likely placed there by William Hewson, who lived in the house for two years and who had built a small anatomy school at the back of the house. They note that while Franklin likely knew what Hewson was doing, he probably did not participate in any dissections because he was much more of a physicist than a medical man.\n\nFranklin bequeathed £1,000 (about $4,400 at the time, or about $112,000 in 2011 dollars) each to the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, in trust to gather interest for 200 years. The trust began in 1785 when the French mathematician Charles-Joseph Mathon de la Cour, who admired Franklin greatly, wrote a friendly parody of Franklin's \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" called \"Fortunate Richard\". The main character leaves a smallish amount of money in his will, five lots of 100 \"livres\", to collect interest over one, two, three, four or five full centuries, with the resulting astronomical sums to be spent on impossibly elaborate utopian projects. Franklin, who was 79 years old at the time, wrote thanking him for a great idea and telling him that he had decided to leave a bequest of 1,000 pounds each to his native Boston and his adopted Philadelphia. By 1990, more than $2,000,000 had accumulated in Franklin's Philadelphia trust, which had loaned the money to local residents. From 1940 to 1990, the money was used mostly for mortgage loans. When the trust came due, Philadelphia decided to spend it on scholarships for local high school students. Franklin's Boston trust fund accumulated almost $5,000,000 during that same time; at the end of its first 100 years a portion was allocated to help establish a trade school that became the Franklin Institute of Boston, and the whole fund was later dedicated to supporting this institute.\n\nBenjamin Franklin is a prominent figure in American history comparable to Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln, and as such he has been honored on U.S. postage stamps many times. The image of Franklin, the first Postmaster General of the United States, occurs on the face of U.S. postage more than any other notable American save that of George Washington.\n\nFranklin appeared on the first U.S. postage stamp (displayed above) issued in 1847. From 1908 through 1923 the U.S. Post Office issued a series of postage stamps commonly referred to as the Washington-Franklin Issues where, along with George Washington, Franklin was depicted many times over a 14-year period, the longest run of any one series in U.S. postal history. Along with the regular issue stamps Franklin however only appears on a few . Some of the finest portrayals of Franklin on record can be found on the engravings inscribed on the face of U.S. postage.\n\n\"Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress\" is a letter written by Benjamin Franklin, dated June 25, 1745, in which Franklin gives advice to a young man about channeling sexual urges. Due to its licentious nature, the letter was not published in collections of Franklin's papers during the nineteenth century. Federal court decisions from the mid-to-late twentieth century cited the document as a reason for overturning obscenity laws, using it to make a case against censorship.\n\n\"The Princess and the Patriot: Ekaterina Dashkova, Benjamin Franklin and the Age of Enlightenment\" exhibition opened in Philadelphia in February 2006 and ran through December 2006. Benjamin Franklin and Dashkova met only once, in Paris in 1781. Franklin was 75, and Dashkova was 37. Franklin invited Dashkova to become the first woman to join the American Philosophical Society; she was the only woman so honored for another 80 years. Later, Dashkova reciprocated by making him the first American member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nAs a founding father of the United States, Franklin's name has been attached to many things. Among these are:\n\nBiographies\n\nFor young readers\n\nScholarly studies\n\nHistoriography\n\nPrimary sources\n\n\nBiographical and guides\n\nOnline writings\n\nAutobiography\n\nIn the arts\n"}
{"id": "36386535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36386535", "title": "Congress of Lushnjë Museum", "text": "Congress of Lushnjë Museum\n\nCongress of Lushnjë Museum is a museum in Lushnjë, Albania. The Congress of Lushnjë was held here in 1920. In 1970, the building was turned into a museum devoted to patriotism. It contains numerous photographs and original documents related to Albania's struggle against Fascism. The white building has 5 bays on the middle floor and 2 bays on the top floor.\n"}
{"id": "36112575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36112575", "title": "DNS blocking", "text": "DNS blocking\n\nDomain Name System Blocking, or DNS Blocking is a strategy for making it difficult for users to locate specific domains or web sites on the Internet. It was first introduced in 1997 as a means to block spam email from known IP addresses. However, DNS blocking should not be the only line of defense against spam email.\n\nDNS blocking can also be applied for outgoing requests as well. Instead of returning the valid IP address of a requested site (for example, instead of 198.35.26.96 being returned by the DNS when \"www.wikipedia.org\" is entered into a browser, if this IP were on a block list, the DNS might reply that the domain is unknown or with a different IP address that directs to a site with a page stating that the requested domain is not permitted). The latter case where the user is redirected to another destination would be considered DNS Spoofing, otherwise known as \"DNS Poisoning\". DNS blocking can be applied to individual servers/IP address, or entire blocks of IP addresses.\n\nIn addition to its technical impact, DNS Blocking also has many social and political implications. Free speech and due process are key concerns regarding DNS blocking, particularly in the United States. DNS Blocking was proposed to be mandated by the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA). It is a technique that essentially breaks the fundamental architecture of the internet. The goal for its use as intended by SOPA and PIPA is to prevent users from intentionally or unintentionally access web sites and web services that are known to host copyrighted material without authorization.\n\nAccording to an article in Network World magazine, \"Just about universally, the people responsible for the technical development and operation of the Internet have\nsaid that the DNS-blocking proposals would break vital Internet technology while at the same time being entirely\nineffectual against people who are serious about violating copyright laws and largely ineffectual against those\nwho do so casually.\" They go on to claim that politicians who support this type of legislation are motivated by pressure from lobbyists and donors to their campaigns. These lobbyists and donors are often affiliated with special interest groups such as the MPAA and RIAA.\n\nGoogle's chairman, Eric Schmidt, is quoted saying \"I would be very, very careful if I were a government about arbitrarily [implementing] simple solutions to complex problems\" in reference to DNS blocking and the PIPA bill. Experts claim that users could get around DNS blocking by using foreign search engines and foreign DNS servers. In fact, within two months of the legislation being introduced there were browser plug-ins released that enable users to resolve blocked domains.\n\nNumerous industry experts have concerns regarding the effect of DNS blocking on the security of the Internet. A former Bush administration Department of Homeland Security policy director claimed that altering the Domain Name System \"would do great damage to internet security.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "3568868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3568868", "title": "Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association: Top 10 Films", "text": "Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association: Top 10 Films\n\nThe Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association: Top 10 Films is a list of 10 films selected by the Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association to honor the best films of the year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1028515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028515", "title": "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium", "text": "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\n\nDe revolutionibus orbium coelestium (\"On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres\") is the seminal work on the heliocentric theory of the Renaissance astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus (1473–1543). The book, first printed in 1543 in Nuremberg, Holy Roman Empire, offered an alternative model of the universe to Ptolemy's geocentric system, which had been widely accepted since ancient times.\n\nCopernicus initially outlined his system in a short, untitled, anonymous manuscript that he distributed to several friends, referred to as the \"Commentariolus\". A physician's library list dating to 1514 includes a manuscript whose description matches the \"Commentariolus\", so Copernicus must have begun work on his new system by that time. Most historians believe that he wrote the \"Commentariolus\" after his return from Italy, possibly only after 1510. At this time, Copernicus anticipated that he could reconcile the motion of the Earth with the perceived motions of the planets easily, with fewer motions than were necessary in the \"Alfonsine Tables\", the version of the Ptolemaic system current at the time. In particular, the heliocentric Copernican model made use of the Urdi Lemma developed in the 13th century by Mu'ayyad al-Din al-'Urdi, the first of the Maragha astronomers to develop a non-Ptolemaic model of planetary motion.\n\nObservations of Mercury by Bernhard Walther (1430–1504) of Nuremberg, a pupil of Regiomontanus, were made available to Copernicus by Johannes Schöner, 45 observations in total, 14 of them with longitude and latitude. Copernicus used three of them in \"De revolutionibus\", giving only longitudes, and erroneously attributing them to Schöner. Copernicus' values differed slightly from the ones published by Schöner in 1544 in \"Observationes XXX annorum a I. Regiomontano et B. Walthero Norimbergae habitae, [4°, Norimb. 1544].\"\n\nA manuscript of \"De revolutionibus\" in Copernicus' own hand has survived. After his death, it was given to his pupil, Rheticus, who for publication had only been given a copy without annotations. Via Heidelberg, it ended up in Prague, where it was rediscovered and studied in the 19th century. Close examination of the manuscript, including the different types of paper used, helped scholars construct an approximate timetable for its composition. Apparently Copernicus began by making a few astronomical observations to provide new data to perfect his models. He may have begun writing the book while still engaged in observations. By the 1530s a substantial part of the book was complete, but Copernicus hesitated to publish.\n\nIn 1539 Georg Joachim Rheticus, a young mathematician from Wittenberg, arrived in Frauenburg (Frombork) to study with him. Rheticus read Copernicus' manuscript and immediately wrote a non-technical summary of its main theories in the form of an open letter addressed to Schöner, his astrology teacher in Nürnberg; he published this letter as the \"Narratio Prima\" in Danzig in 1540. Rheticus' friend and mentor Achilles Gasser published a second edition of the \"Narratio\" in Basel in 1541. Due to its friendly reception, Copernicus finally agreed to publication of more of his main work—in 1542, a treatise on trigonometry, which was taken from the second book of the still unpublished \"De revolutionibus\". Rheticus published it in Copernicus' name.\n\nUnder strong pressure from Rheticus, and having seen that the first general reception of his work had not been unfavorable, Copernicus finally agreed to give the book to his close friend, Bishop Tiedemann Giese, to be delivered to Rheticus in Wittenberg for printing by Johannes Petreius at Nürnberg (Nuremberg). It was published just before Copernicus' death, in 1543.\n\nThe book is dedicated to Pope Paul III in a preface that argues that mathematics, not physics, should be the basis for understanding and accepting his new theory.\n\n\"De revolutionibus\" is divided into six \"books\" (sections or parts), following closely the layout of Ptolemy's \"Almagest\" which it updated and replaced:\n\nCopernicus argued that the universe comprised eight spheres. The outermost consisted of motionless, fixed stars, with the Sun motionless at the center. The known planets revolved about the Sun, each in its own sphere, in the order: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. The Moon, however, revolved in its sphere around the Earth. What appeared to be the daily revolution of the Sun and fixed stars around the Earth was actually the Earth's daily rotation on its own axis.\n\nCopernicus adhered to one of the standard beliefs of his time, namely that the motions of celestial bodies must be composed of uniform circular motions. For this reason, he was unable to account for the observed apparent motion of the planets without retaining a complex system of epicycles similar to those of the Ptolemaic system.\nDespite Copernicus' adherence to this aspect of ancient astronomy, his radical shift from a geocentric to a heliocentric cosmology was a serious blow to Aristotle's science—and helped usher in the Scientific Revolution.\n\nRheticus left Nürnberg to take up his post as professor in Leipzig. The Lutheran preacher Andreas Osiander had taken over the task of supervising the printing and publication. In an effort to reduce the controversial impact of the book Osiander added his own unsigned letter \"Ad lectorem de hypothesibus huius operis\" (\"To the reader concerning the hypotheses of this work\") printed in front of Copernicus' preface which was a dedicatory letter to Pope Paul III and which kept the title \"Praefatio authoris\" (to acknowledge that the unsigned letter was not by the book's author).\n\nOsiander's letter stated that Copernicus' system was mathematics intended to aid computation and not an attempt to declare literal truth:\n\nAs even Osiander's defenders point out, the \"Ad lectorem\" \"expresses views on the aim and nature of scientific theories at variance with Copernicus' claims for his own theory\".\n\nMany view Osiander's letter as a betrayal of science and Copernicus, and an attempt to pass his own thoughts off as those of the book's author. An example of this type of claim can be seen in the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", which states \"Fortunately for him [the dying Copernicus], he could not see what Osiander had done. This reformer, knowing the attitude of Luther and Melanchthon against the heliocentric system ... without adding his own name, replaced the preface of Copernicus by another strongly contrasting in spirit with that of Copernicus.\"\n\nWhile Osiander's motives behind the letter have been questioned by many, he has been defended by historian Bruce Wrightsman, who points out he was not an enemy of science. Osiander had many scientific connections including \"Johannes Schoner, Rheticus's teacher, whom Osiander recommended for his post at the Nurnberg Gymnasium; Peter Apian of Ingolstadt University; Hieronymous Schreiber...Joachim Camerarius...Erasmus Reinhold...Joachim Rheticus...and finally, Hieronymous Cardan.\"\n\nThe historian Wrightsman put forward that Osiander did not sign the letter because he \"was such a notorious [Protestant] reformer whose name was well-known and infamous among Catholics\", so that signing would have likely caused negative scrutiny of the work of Copernicus (a loyal Catholic canon and scholar). Copernicus himself had communicated to Osiander his \"own fears that his work would be scrutinized and criticized by the 'peripatetics and theologians',\" and he had already been in trouble with his bishop, Johannes Dantiscus, on account of his former relationship with his mistress and friendship with Dantiscus's enemy and suspected heretic, Alexander Scultetus. It was also possible that Protestant Nurnberg could fall to the forces of the Holy Roman Emperor and since \"the books of hostile theologians could be burned...why not scientific works with the names of hated theologians affixed to them?\" Wrightsman also holds that this is why Copernicus did not mention his top student, Rheticus (a Lutheran) in the book's dedication to the Pope.\n\nOsiander's interest in astronomy was theological, hoping for \"improving the chronology of historical events and thus providing more accurate apocalyptic interpretations of the Bible... [he shared in] the general awareness that the calendar was not in agreement with astronomical movement and therefore, needed to be corrected by devising better models on which to base calculations.\" In an era before the telescope, Osiander (like most of the era's mathematical astronomers) attempted to bridge the \"fundamental incompatibility between Ptolemaic astronomy and Aristotlian physics, and the need to preserve both\", by taking an 'instrumentalist' position. Only the handful of \"Philosophical purists like the Averroists... demanded physical consistency and thus sought for realist models.\"\n\nCopernicus was hampered by his insistence on preserving the idea that celestial bodies had to travel in perfect spheres – he \"was still attached to classical ideas of circular motion around deferents and epicycles, and spheres.\" This was particularly troubling concerning the Earth because he \"attached the Earth's axis rigidly to a Sun-centered sphere. The unfortunate consequence was that the terrestrial rotation axis then maintained the same inclination with respect to the Sun as the sphere turned, eliminating the seasons.\" To explain the seasons, he had to propose a third motion, \"an annual contrary conical sweep of the terrestrial axis\". It was not until the Great Comet of 1577, which moved as if there were no spheres to crash through, did the idea come under question. In 1609, Kepler fixed Copernicus' theory by stating that the planets orbit the sun not in circles, but ellipses. Only after Kepler's refinement of Copernicus' theory was the need for deferents and epicycles abolished.\n\nIn his work, Copernicus \"used conventional, hypothetical devices like epicycles...as all astronomers had done since antiquity. ...hypothetical constructs solely designed to 'save the phenomena' and aid computation\". Ptolemy's theory contained a hypothesis about the epicycle of Venus that was viewed as absurd if seen as anything other than a geometrical device (its brightness and distance should have varied greatly, but they don't). \"In spite of this defect in Ptolemy's theory, Copernicus' hypothesis predicts approximately the same variations.\" Because of the use of similar terms and similar deficiencies, Osiander could see \"little technical or physical truth-gain\" between one system and the other. It was this attitude towards technical astronomy that had allowed it to \"function since antiquity, despite its inconsistencies with the principles of physics and the philosophical objections of Averroists.\"\n\nWriting \"Ad lectorem\", Osiander was influenced by Pico della Mirandola's idea that humanity \"orders [an intellectual] cosmos out of the chaos of opinions.\" From Pico's writings, Osiander \"learned to extract and synthesize insights from many sources without becoming the slavish follower of any of them.\" The effect of Pico on Osiander was tempered by the influence of Nicholas of Cusa's and his idea of \"coincidentia oppositorum\". Rather than having Pico's focus on human effort, Osiander followed Cusa's idea that understanding the Universe and its Creator only came from divine inspiration rather than intellectual organization. From these influences, Osiander held that in the area of philosophical speculation and scientific hypothesis there are \"no heretics of the intellect\", but when one gets past speculation into truth-claims the Bible is the ultimate measure. By holding Copernicianism was mathematical speculation, Osiander held that it would be silly to hold it up against the accounts of the Bible.\n\nPico's influence on Osiander did not escape Rheticus, who reacted strongly against the \"Ad lectorem\". As historian Robert S. Westman puts it, \"The more profound source of Rheticus's ire however, was Osiander's view of astronomy as a disciple fundamentally incapable of knowing anything with certainty. For Rheticus, this extreme position surely must have resonated uncomfortably with Pico della Mirandola's attack on the foundations of divinatory astrology.\"\n\nIn his \"Disputations\", Pico had made a devastating attack on astrology. Because those who were making astrological predictions relied on astronomers to tell them where the planets were, they also became a target. Pico held that since astronomers who calculate planetary positions could not agree among themselves, how were they to be held as reliable? While Pico could bring into concordance writers like Aristotle, Plato, Plotinus, Averroes, Avicenna, and Aquinas, the lack of consensus he saw in astronomy was a proof to him of its fallibility alongside astrology. Pico pointed out that the astronomers' instruments were imprecise and any imperfection of even a degree made them worthless for astrology, people should not trust astrologists because they should not trust the numbers from astronomers. Pico pointed out that astronomers couldn't even tell where the sun appeared in the order of the planets as they orbited the earth (some put it close to the moon, others among the planets). How, Pico asked, could astrologists possibly claim they could read what was going on when the astronomers they relied on could offer no precision on even basic questions?\n\nAs Westman points out, to Rheticus \"it would seem that Osiander now offered new grounds for endorsing Pico's conclusions: not merely was the disagreement among astronomers grounds for mistrusting the sort of knowledge that they produced, but now Osiander proclaimed that astronomers might construct a world deduced from (possibly) false premises. Thus the conflict between Piconian skepticism and secure principles for the science of the stars was built right into the complex dedicatory apparatus of \"De Revolutionibus\" itself.\" According to the notes of Michael Maestlin, \"Rheticus...became embroiled in a very bitter wrangle with the printer [over the Ad lectorem]. Rheticus...suspected Osiander had prefaced the work; if he knew this for certain, he declared, he would rough up the fellow so violently that in future he would mind his own business.\"\n\nObjecting to the \"Ad lectorem\", Tiedemann Giese urged the Nuremberg city council to issue a correction, but this was not done, and the matter was forgotten. Jan Broscius, a supporter of Copernicus, also despaired of the \"Ad lectorem\", writing \"Ptolemy's hypothesis is the earth rests. Copernicus' hypothesis is that the earth is in motion. Can either, therefore, be true? ... Indeed, Osiander deceives much with that preface of his ... Hence, someone may well ask: How is one to know which hypothesis is truer, the Ptolemaic or the Copernican?\"\n\nPetreius had sent a copy to Hieronymus Schreiber, an astronomer from Nürnberg who had substituted for Rheticus as professor of mathematics in Wittenberg while Rheticus was in Nürnberg supervising the printing. Schreiber, who died in 1547, left in his copy of the book a note about Osiander's authorship. Via Michael Mästlin, this copy came to Johannes Kepler, who discovered what Osiander had done and methodically demonstrated that Osiander had indeed added the foreword. The most knowledgeable astronomers of the time had realized that the foreword was Osiander's doing.\n\nOwen Gingerich gives a slightly different version: Kepler knew of Osiander's authorship since he had read about it in one of Schreiber's annotations in his copy of \"De Revolutionibus\"; Maestlin learned of the fact from Kepler. Indeed, Maestlin perused Kepler's book, up to the point of leaving a few annotations in it. However, Maestlin already suspected Osiander, because he had bought his \"De revolutionibus\" from the widow of Philipp Apian; examining his books, he had found a note attributing the introduction to Osiander.\n\nJohannes Praetorius (1537–1616), who learned of Osiander's authorship from Rheticus during a visit to him in Kraków, wrote Osiander's name in the margin of the foreword in his copy of \"De revolutionibus\".\n\nAll three early editions of \"De revolutionibus\" included Osiander's foreword.\n\nEven before the 1543 publication of \"De revolutionibus\", rumors circulated\nabout its central theses. Martin Luther is quoted as saying in 1539:\n\nPeople gave ear to an upstart astrologer who strove to show that the earth revolves, not the heavens or the firmament, the sun and the moon ... This fool wishes to reverse the entire science of astronomy; but sacred Scripture tells us [Joshua 10:13] that Joshua commanded the sun to stand still, and not the earth.\n\nWhen the book was finally published, demand was low, with an initial print run of 400 failing to sell out. Copernicus had made the book extremely technical, unreadable to all but the most advanced astronomers of the day, allowing it to disseminate into their ranks before stirring great controversy. And, like Osiander, contemporary mathematicians and astronomers encouraged its audience to view it as a useful mathematical fiction with no physical reality, thereby somewhat\nshielding it from accusations of blasphemy.\n\nAmong some astronomers, the book \"at once took its place as a worthy successor to the \"Almagest\" of Ptolemy, which had hitherto been the Alpha and Omega of astronomers\". Erasmus Reinhold hailed the work in 1542 and by 1551 had developed the \"Prutenic Tables\" (\"Prussian Tables\"; ; ) using Copernicus' methods. The \"Prutenic Tables\", published in 1551, were used as a basis for the calendar reform instituted in 1582 by Pope Gregory XIII. They were also used by sailors and maritime explorers, whose 15th-century predecessors had used Regiomontanus' \"Table of the Stars\". In England, Robert Recorde, John Dee, Thomas Digges and William Gilbert were among those who adopted his position; in Germany, Christian Wurstisen, Christoph Rothmann and Michael Mästlin, the teacher of Johannes Kepler; in Italy, Giambattista Benedetti and Giordano Bruno whilst Franciscus Patricius accepted the rotation of the earth. In Spain, rules published in 1561 for the curriculum of the University of Salamanca gave students the choice between studying Ptolemy or Copernicus. One of those students, Diego de Zúñiga, published an acceptance of Copernican theory in 1584.\n\nVery soon, nevertheless, Copernicus' theory was attacked with Scripture and with the common Aristotelian proofs. In 1549 Melanchthon, Luther's principal lieutenant, wrote against Copernicus, pointing to the theory's apparent conflict with Scripture and advocating that \"severe measures\" be taken to restrain the impiety of Copernicans.\nThe works of Copernicus and Zúñiga—the latter for asserting that \"De revolutionibus\" was compatible with Catholic faith—were placed on the Index of Forbidden Books by a decree of the Sacred Congregation of March 5, 1616 (more than 70 years after Copernicus' publication):\n\nThis Holy Congregation has also learned about the spreading and acceptance by many of the false Pythagorean doctrine, altogether contrary to the Holy Scripture, that the earth moves and the sun is motionless, which is also taught by Nicholaus Copernicus' \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" and by Diego de Zúñiga's \"In Job\" ... Therefore, in order that this opinion may not creep any further to the prejudice of Catholic truth, the Congregation has decided that the books by Nicolaus Copernicus [\"De revolutionibus\"] and Diego de Zúñiga [\"In Job\"] be suspended until corrected.\n\n\"De revolutionibus\" was not formally banned but merely withdrawn from circulation, pending \"corrections\" that would clarify the theory's status as hypothesis. Nine sentences that represented the heliocentric system as certain were to be omitted or changed. After these corrections were prepared and formally approved in 1620 the reading of the book was permitted. But the book was never reprinted with the changes and was available in Catholic jurisdictions only to suitably qualified scholars, by special request. It remained on the Index until 1758, when Pope Benedict XIV (1740–58) removed the uncorrected book from his revised Index.\n\nArthur Koestler described \"De revolutionibus\" as \"The Book That Nobody Read\" saying the book \"was and is an all-time worst seller\", despite the fact that it was reprinted four times. Owen Gingerich, a writer on both Nicolaus Copernicus and Johannes Kepler, disproved this after a 35-year project to examine every surviving copy of the first two editions. Gingerich showed that nearly all the leading mathematicians and astronomers of the time owned and read the book; however, his analysis of the marginalia shows that they almost all ignored the cosmology at the beginning of the book and were only interested in Copernicus' new equant-free models of planetary motion in the later chapters. Also, Nicolaus Reimers in 1587 translated the book into German.\n\nGingerich's efforts and conclusions are recounted in \"The Book Nobody Read\", published in 2004 by Walker & Co. His census included 276 copies of the first edition (by comparison, there are 228 extant copies of the First Folio of Shakespeare) and 325 copies of the second. The research behind this book earned its author the Polish government's Order of Merit in 1981. Due largely to Gingerich's scholarship, \"De revolutionibus\" has been researched and catalogued better than any other first-edition historic text except for the original Gutenberg Bible.\nOne of the copies now resides at the Archives of the University of Santo Tomas in the Miguel de Benavides Library. In January 2017, a second-edition copy was stolen as part of a heist of rare books from Heathrow Airport and remains unrecovered.\n\n\nEnglish translations of \"De revolutionibus\" have included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40625845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40625845", "title": "Ernst Wilhelm Moes", "text": "Ernst Wilhelm Moes\n\nErnst Wilhelm Moes (1864 – 1912), was a Dutch art historian and director of the print cabinet for the Rijksmuseum.\n\nAccording to the NNBW he studied art at the University of Amsterdam and became a print collector while still a student, specialized in Amsterdam history. To simplify his research, from 1885 he became a volunteer at the Amsterdam auction house of Frederik Muller. In 1896 he published his first work on the history of the Amsterdam publishing industry. His \"Iconographia\", a comprehensive guide to portraits of Dutch people, was published by Frederik Muller & Co. In 1898 he began work as assistant to Philip van der Kellen in the Amsterdam Rijksmuseum and from 1903 until his death by tuberculosis he was the head of the print cabinet of the museum. From 1907 until 1911 he was a member of Teylers Tweede Genootschap. \nHe worked together with Abraham Bredius on the magazine Oud Holland, and Bredius wrote his obituary.\nHe died in Amsterdam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27658146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27658146", "title": "Galerie des Batailles", "text": "Galerie des Batailles\n\nThe Galerie des Batailles (\"Gallery of Battles\") is a 120 metre long and 13 metre wide (390 ft. x 43 ft.) gallery occupying the first floor of the aile du Midi of the Palace of Versailles, joining onto the grand and petit 'appartements de la reine'. It is an epigone of the \"Grande galerie\" of the Louvre and was intended to glorify French military history from the Battle of Tolbiac (traditionally dated 496) to the Battle of Wagram (5–6 July 1809).\n\nIts creation was the idea of Louis-Philippe I, King of the French and it replaced apartments which had been occupied in the 17th and 18th centuries by\n\nThe architects Pierre-François-Léonard Fontaine and Frédéric Nepveu created a solemn decorative scheme for it, with a wide cornice supporting a coffered painted ceiling with entablatures supported by Corinthian columns along the length of the gallery. 13 bronze tablets on the wall are inscribed with the names of princes, admirals, constables, marshals and warriors killed or wounded whilst fighting for France. There are also busts placed on supports against the columns and between the paintings.\n\nThe main contents of the rooms, however, were envisaged as the vast paintings showing major military events in French history, some already in existence but mostly specially commissioned for the Galerie. While a number of them were of questionable quality, a few masterpieces, such as the \"Battle of Taillebourg\" by Eugène Delacroix, were displayed here.\n\nNumbers correspond to floor plan.\n\n\nIn 1978, Breton nationalists of the Breton Revolutionary Army caused major damage to the Galerie in planting a bomb. Having failed to plant one in the Hall of Mirrors, they moved to the galerie des Batailles, targeting Napoleon as a symbol of French colonialism.\n\n"}
{"id": "30994808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30994808", "title": "Graft (Paine)", "text": "Graft (Paine)\n\nGraft is a sculpture by Roxy Paine. \nIt was installed on October 26–30 2008, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden. \n\nIt is part of a \"Dendroids\" series begun in 1998. Made of Stainless steel, it weighs 16,000 pounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "20817341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20817341", "title": "Hannah White", "text": "Hannah White\n\nHannah White (born Hannah Elizabeth Gwillim White on 30 March 1983 in Berkshire, England) is a broadcaster, sailor, and adventurer. She is best known as the Guinness World Records holder for fastest person to cross the English Channel and her television show 'Go Hard or Go Home'.\n\nThe younger of two children, White grew up in Newbury, Berkshire and was educated at the Godolphin School in Salisbury. Having married a Suffolk farmer, she now lives in Suffolk with him and they have a daughter together.\n\nHaving first been introduced to sailing at the age of 15 by the family of one of her school friends, White's first ever Cowes Week was a frustrating experience with her feeling, due to her novice status, like she was \"always getting in the way and in the wrong place”. However, this, alongside a genuine passion for being 'on the water' was her first step on her sailing career. She finished second place finish in the solo trans-Atlantic race, the OSTAR, in 2009. A 3200 nm race following the historical North Atlantic route from Plymouth, UK to Newport, USA she completed the race in 20days 22mins, missing out on the under 35-foot world record by just a few minutes but being awarded the prestigious media award for the OSTAR, as voted for by the public. In total, White made two solo attempts to cross the Atlantic between 2005 (in this year as the youngest ever female competitor) and 2009, one of which was successful. \n\nIn 2015, she became the new Guinness World Records holder for the fastest crossing of the English Channel in a single-handed dinghy by doing so in 3 hours, 44 minutes and 39 seconds. \n\nDuring her professional racing career, White featured heavily in the local press, frequently working for BBC local radio and ITV Meridian, covering maritime and sailing events.\n\nIn 2010, White was part of the commentary team for the Olympic test event, Sail for Gold in Weymouth. In 2011, White became the lead presenter for the World Match Racing Tour, broadcasting to over 180 countries worldwide. The live coverage for Monsoon Cup in Malaysia was nominated for a National RTS Award for best live event.\n\nAt the end of 2011, White joined the Volvo Ocean Race as Master of Ceremonies and Presenter. Commentating on racing, and MC’ing prize givings, race days arrival and departure ceremonies to 2.9 million people around the world. Average live audiences on In-Port race days were 43,882.\nWhite was co-presenter and commentator for the Sailing Venue, Weymouth at the London 2012 Olympic Games.\n\nAired in January 2014, Go Hard or Go Home was produced by Channel 5 and focused on the members of the British public which White choose to train for athletic challenges.\n"}
{"id": "8581378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8581378", "title": "Hortus Malabaricus", "text": "Hortus Malabaricus\n\nHortus Malabaricus (meaning \"Garden of Malabar\") is a comprehensive treatise that deals with the properties of the flora of the Western Ghats region principally covering the areas now in the Indian states of Kerala, Karnataka and the union territory of Goa.\n\nWritten in Latin, it was compiled over a period of nearly 30 years and published in Amsterdam during 1678–1693. The book was conceived by Hendrik van Rheede, who was the Governor of Dutch Malabar at the time. The book has been translated into English and Malayalam by K. S. Manilal and published by the University of Kerala.\n\nThe \"Hortus Malabaricus\" comprises 12 volumes of about 200 pages each, with 794 copper plate engravings. The first of the 12 volumes of the book was published in 1678, and the last in 1693. It is believed to be the earliest comprehensive printed work on the flora of Asia and the tropics.\n\nMentioned in these volumes are plants of the Malabar region which in his time referred to the stretch along the Western Ghats from Goa to Kanyakumari. The book gives a detailed account of the flora of Kerala, along with sketches and detailed descriptions. Over 742 different plants and their indigenous science are considered in the book. The book also employs a system of classification based on the traditions adopted by the practitioners of that region. Apart from Latin, the plant names have been recorded in other languages including Malayalam, Konkani, Arabic, English.\nThe comprehensive nature of the book is noted by T. Whitehouse in his 1859 \"Historical Notices of Cochin on the Malabar Coast\": \n\nSeveral species of plants have their type illustrations in this work.\n\nHendrik van Rheede is said to have taken a keen personal interest in the compilation of the \"Hortus Malabaricus\". The work was edited by a team of nearly a hundred including:\n\nVan Rheede was also assisted by the King of Cochin and the ruling Zamorin of Calicut. Prominent among the Indian contributors was the Ezhava physician [Itty Achudan|Itti Achuden]], a \"Thiyya Vaidyan\" of the Mouton Coast of Malabar whose contribution was examined by three Brahmins named Ranga Bhat, Vinayaka Pandit and Appu Bhat. The ethnomedical original information in the work was provided by Itti Achuden and the three Brahmins, working on it for two continuous years morning and evening. Their certificate to this effect is given in the first volume of the book. A grand memorial to them is erected in Kochi.\n\nProfessor K. S. Manilal (b. 1938) has worked over 35 years on the research, translations, and annotations of the \"Hortus Malabaricus\". The effort has brought the main contents of the book to Malayalam and English-speaking scholars. It had largely remained inaccessible previously to them, because of the entire text being untranslated into the English language and Malayalam language.\n\n\nWho wrote hortus malabaricus-www.kottakkalayuveda.com/campaign.php\n"}
{"id": "7954797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7954797", "title": "If I Did It", "text": "If I Did It\n\nIf I Did It, retitled If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer in later issues, is a book by ghostwriter Pablo Fenjves and by O. J. Simpson, in which Simpson puts forth a \"hypothetical\" description of the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Simpson's former manager, Norman Pardo, claimed that Simpson was not involved in writing the book, but rather accepted, against Pardo's advice, $600,000 from the ReganBooks and News Corporation to say he had written it and to conduct an interview.\n\nSimpson was acquitted of the murders in a criminal trial (\"California v. Simpson\") but later was found financially liable in a civil trial. Although the original release of the book was cancelled shortly after it was announced in November 2006, 400,000 physical copies of the original book were printed, and by June 2007, copies of it had been leaked online.\n\nThe book was originally due to be published by ReganBooks, an imprint of HarperCollins, which was headed by editor and publisher Judith Regan. The television network Fox, which was a sister to HarperCollins via News Corporation at the time, was to also broadcast an interview special with Simpson to promote the book, entitled \"O. J. Simpson: If I Did It, Here's How It Happened\". However, following objections to the special by several Fox station owners, the special was also canceled. Footage from the interview was aired for the first time during a subsequent Fox special, \"O. J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?\", which aired in March 2018.\n\nIn August 2007, a Florida bankruptcy court awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family to partially satisfy the civil judgment. The book's title was changed to If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer, and this version was published by Beaufort Books, a New York City publishing house owned by parent company Kampmann & Company/Midpoint Trade Books. Comments were added to the original manuscript by the Goldman family, Fenjves, and journalist Dominick Dunne. The new cover design printed the word \"If\" greatly reduced in size compared with the other words, and placed inside the word \"I\".\n\nNorman Pardo, Simpson's former manager, told \"The Huffington Post\" that the book was written by a ghostwriter without Simpson's involvement. Rather, Simpson had accepted, against Pardo's advice, $600,000 from the publisher ReganBooks and its parent company News Corporation to say he had written the book and to conduct an associated television interview on Fox. Pardo told the \"Huffington Post\" that Simpson had rationalized:\n\n\"Hey, they offered me $600,000 not to dispute that I [wrote] the book.\" He said, \"That's cash.\" I said, \"They're going to think you wrote it.\" He said, \"So? Everybody thinks I'm a murderer anyway. They're not going to change their mind just because of a book.\"\n\nThe book's ghostwriter and 1995 trial witness, Pablo Fenjves, responded to the claim, saying the book is \"based on extensive discussions with Simpson.\"\n\nThe first part of the \"If I Did It\" manuscript details Simpson's early relationship and marriage with Nicole Brown Simpson. The latter part of the manuscript describes details of the events on June 12, 1994, and about the murders as they could have occurred if Simpson had committed them. However, Simpson's attorney said that there is \"only one chapter that deals with their deaths and that chapter, in my understanding, has a disclaimer that it's complete fiction.\" In Simpson's hypothetical scenario, he has an unwilling accomplice named \"Charlie\" who tells him to stop the murders, and whom Simpson ignores.\n\nThe book was unofficially announced in the \"National Enquirer\" in late October 2006, but this was immediately denied by Simpson's lawyer. The book was then formally announced some weeks later in mid-November 2006 for release on November 30. Intense public criticism led to the cancellation of the book's publication and a related television interview, both from divisions of News Corporation (Fox and HarperCollins, of which ReganBooks was an imprint). According to a \"Newsweek\" story, all 400,000 printed copies were recalled for \"pulping\", except for one, locked away in a vault at News Corporation. A copy later appeared in an auction listing on eBay in September 2007; it eventually sold for over $250,000. James Wolcott of \"Vanity Fair\" also obtained a \"pristine hardcover\" copy of the book for a review published in January 2007.\n\nThe first version's cover, as released by HarperCollins, showed a photograph of Simpson with the words \"I Did It\" in red and the word \"If\" in white. The Beaufort version had the words \"I Did It\" in large type and the word \"If\" written in a tiny font and placed at the top of the \"I\". Neither version of the book has Simpson's name anywhere on the front cover.\n\nHarperCollins and ReganBooks had planned to publish the book on November 30, 2006. The \"National Enquirer\" made unproven claims in October 2006 that Simpson would be paid US$3.5 million for the book. Judith Regan, the editor of ReganBooks and Simpson's interviewer in the planned Fox special, was quoted by the Associated Press as saying, \"This is a historic case, and I consider this his confession.\" In one portion of an interview to promote the book, taped before the project was canceled, Regan said to Simpson, \"You wrote, 'I have never seen so much blood in my life.'\" Simpson responded, \"I don't think any two people could be murdered without everybody being covered in blood.\"\n\n\"If I Did It\" ignited a storm of pre-publication controversy, largely due to the perception that Simpson was trying to profit from the two deaths for which his civil suit verdict had found him liable. \"This is not about being heard. This is about trying to cash in, in a pathetic way, on some notoriety,\" said Sara Nelson, editor-in-chief of \"Publishers Weekly\". Patricia Schroeder, president and chief executive of the Association of American Publishers, felt that the book would \"stir an awful lot of debate and make the culture take a real look at itself, and that may not be unhealthy\".\n\nDenise Brown, sister of murder victim Nicole Brown Simpson, expressed her hope that the publisher would take \"full accountability for promoting the wrongdoing of criminals and leveraging this forum and the actions of Simpson to commercialize abuse.\" She went on to say that Simpson's two children would be \"exposed to [his] inexplicable behavior and we will provide them with our love and support during this time. It's unfortunate that [O.J.] Simpson has decided to awaken a nightmare that we have painfully endured and worked so hard to move beyond.\" The proposed book also outraged the family of Ron Goldman, who criticized the publisher for \"helping a murderer get his voice out there.\" According to lawyers for the family, they planned to attempt to garnish any earnings Simpson might get from the book. Fred Goldman, Ron's father, was awarded $33.5 million by a jury in 1997 for the wrongful death of his son. However, Simpson never paid this judgment due to a California law that prevents pensions from being used to satisfy judgments, and the fact that the bulk of his income comes from his NFL pension. Goldman described the book and television interview as \"an all-time low\" and \"morally reprehensible to me ... to think you are willing to give somebody airtime about how they would murder two people.\"\n\nThe day after the announcement of its publication, an online boycott encouraged Americans to ignore the book and complain to publishers and booksellers.\nSimilar boycotts were held in Australia and Europe.\nWithin four days of the book's announcement, over 58,394 people had signed an online petition developed by Goldman's family, DontPayOJ.com, declaring their opposition to the book. Bookshops were divided about stocking the title in their stores. Numerous independent stores said either that they would not sell it or would offer limited copies and give away the proceeds. Borders Books and Waldenbooks said they would donate any profits made from the book to charities which would benefit victims of domestic violence, and a Borders spokesperson said they \"believe it is the right of customers to decide what they read and what to buy, but we will not discount the title or promote it\". Several stores in Canada said they would only order it for customers, but not stock it. In the days following the book's announcement, pre-orders put it in the top 20 of Amazon.com's bestseller list, though it had fallen to #51 when the book's cancellation was announced.\n\nLegal experts theorized that Simpson might be able to avoid paying the Goldmans or Browns any money. \"I think it's going to be difficult if [Simpson] arranges to have [book profits] deposited abroad,\" said lawyer Tom Mesereau, who successfully defended Michael Jackson in his child molestation trial in 2005. \"It's one thing to enforce a judgment in America, and another to enforce it overseas.\" Mesereau said Simpson also might have profits \"paid into a trust offshore or a corporation in a different name.\"\n\nFox, a U.S. television network that was a sister to HarperCollins via News Corporation at the time, was to air a related, two-part, taped interview with Simpson, conducted by Regan, in which Simpson describes how he would have committed the 1994 slayings of Nicole and Goldman, \"if he were the one responsible\". The interview was scheduled to air on November 27 and November 29, 2006, timed to coincide with the book's release. The program was being produced under Fox's alternative programming department, headed by Mike Darnell, and not under the auspices of Fox News Channel. NBC said that it was approached to air the interview, but declined, saying, \"This is not a project appropriate for our network.\" On November 16, 2006, Regan issued a statement claiming that her reason for recording the interview and releasing the book was an attempt to find closure after having been a battered woman herself. \"The men who lied and cheated and beat me – they were all there in the room,\" she said. \"And the people who denied it, they were there, too. And though it might sound a little strange, Nicole and Ron were in my heart. And for them I wanted him to confess his sins, do penance, and to amend his life. Amen.\"\n\nOver a dozen Fox affiliates refused to carry the special, or decided to air it, but devote local advertising time to public service announcements. KSFX-TV in Springfield, Missouri, and WWCP-TV in Johnstown-Altoona-State College, Pennsylvania area were the first to turn down the special on November 17, 2006, along with KAYU-TV in Spokane, Washington, and WDRB in Louisville, Kentucky. Pappas Telecasting also planned to pre-empt the program on their Fox stations in four markets along with Fox affiliates KNDX in Bismarck-Minot, North Dakota; KMPH-TV in Fresno, California; KPTH in Sioux City, Iowa; KTVG-TV in Lincoln, Superior and Grand Island, Nebraska; and KPTM in Omaha, Nebraska. Fox affiliates KCPQ in Seattle—owned by Tribune Company—and XETV in San Diego/Tijuana—were both reportedly undecided, but each indicated that if they aired the special, they would not sell local ad time, instead giving that time to local domestic violence groups to air public service announcements.\n\nFenjves, a screenwriter and witness at Simpson's 1995 trial, ghostwrote Simpson's book. Fenjves stated in interviews that Simpson actively collaborated on the manuscript, and that Fenjves \"knew\" Simpson was \"a murderer\".\n\nOn November 20, 2006, News Corporation issued a statement saying that the book and television special had been canceled. In the statement, News Corporation chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch said,\n\"I and senior management agree with the American public that this was an ill-considered project. We are sorry for any pain this has caused the families of Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown-Simpson.\" The Associated Press called the book's cancellation \"an astonishing end to a story like no other,\" noting that a publisher's withdrawing a book for its content \"is virtually unheard of.\"\n\nOn November 21, 2006, Denise Brown accused Fox of trying to stop the Goldman and Brown families from criticizing the project by offering millions of dollars for their silence surrounding the project: \"They wanted to offer us millions of dollars. Millions of dollars for, like, 'Oh, I'm sorry' money. But they were still going to air the show,\" Brown said. \"We just thought, 'Oh my God.' What they're trying to do is trying to keep us quiet, trying to make this like hush money, trying to go around the civil verdict, giving us this money to keep our mouths shut.\"\n\nBrown told NBC's \"Today\" that her family's response was: \"Absolutely not.\" Fox confirmed that the Brown and Goldman families were offered profit participation deals for the projects but denies that it was hush money. \"Last week, when concerns were raised by the public that we were profiting from this guy's story, we tried to work out some arrangement with the family. Never was there any suggestion of them being barred from talking about it. We would never suggest that,\" said News Corp spokesman Andrew Butcher.\n\nSince the interview existed on tape, executives at Fox said it was likely to turn up somewhere or be leaked. Nearly twelve years later, Fox announced that it would air a special entitled \"O.J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?\", on March 11, 2018. It featured footage from the interview, as well as analysis and discussion by host Soledad O'Brien and experts. It aired with limited commercial time, which was used to broadcast public service announcements addressing domestic violence. In the decade-old interview, Simpson initially used phrases like \"I would\" and \"I'd think\" in his hypothetical description of the event, but later moved to using first-person phrasing with sentences like \"I remember I grabbed the knife\", \"I don't remember except I'm standing there\", \"I don't recall\", and \"I must have.\" Due to the change in phrasing, these comments were interpreted by many as being a form of confession, which stirred strong reactions in print media and the internet.\n\nOn August 14, 2007, it was reported that a literary agent for the Goldman family, Sharlene Martin, had made a deal to publish the book with the new subtitle \"Confessions of the Killer\". All of the original text was to remain intact, with the addition of \"key commentary.\" This version of the book was released about a month later, on September 13, 2007. Some of the proceeds benefit the Ronald Lyle Goldman Justice Foundation, which was planned in 1995 to fund civil legal action against Simpson.\n\nIn February 2007, a Canadian publisher, Barclay Road Inc., expressed interest in publishing the book. Barclay Road CEO Herbert Becker said that public opinion turned against the book without anybody's really knowing its contents. He said his company would look into obtaining the rights to the book.\n\nIn June 2007, a federal judge ruled that Fred Goldman, Ron Goldman's father, could pursue the publishing rights to Simpson's book. In July 2007, a federal bankruptcy judge awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family, who receive 90 percent of profits to help satisfy the $33.5 million wrongful death civil suit judgment against Simpson. After Goldman had won the rights to the book, he arranged to publish it under the new title \"If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer\". The Goldman family's lawyers also announced intentions to pursue new publishing, film, or TV deals in order to receive some of $33.5 million awarded to them in the civil case.\n\nFred Goldman sued Lorraine Brooke Associates, a shell corporation, for the publishing rights after it filed for bankruptcy. After Goldman purchased the rights from the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee, Nicole's father, Louis H. Brown, sued Goldman, attempting to stop the publication, but lost.\n"}
{"id": "3883328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883328", "title": "Instruments of Independence", "text": "Instruments of Independence\n\nThe Instruments of Independence is a legal document that established Fiji's independence from the United Kingdom in 1970, when it was handed over by Prince Charles on behalf of the British Monarch on 10 October.\n\nThe document is currently missing. The Prime Minister's Office is unsure whether they hold the document, and Fiji Museum Director Sagale Buadromo told the Fiji Live news service on 26 January 2006 that it was not and had never been in their possession.\n\nGovernment Archivist Setareki Tale said it was possible that the then-Governor-General, Sir Robert Sidney Foster, had returned the document to the United Kingdom - but that was only conjecture. The British High Commission might be asked to help in the search for the document, government sources said.\n"}
{"id": "30626395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30626395", "title": "International Protein Index", "text": "International Protein Index\n\nThe International Protein Index (IPI) is a defunct protein database launched in 2001 by the European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), and closed in 2011. Its purpose was to provide the proteomics community with a resource that enables\n\nIn its last version, the IPI contained the complete reference sets for six animal species: \"Homo sapiens\" (human), \"Mus musculus\" (mouse), \"Rattus norvegicus\" (rat), \"Bos taurus\" (cattle), \"Gallus gallus\" (chicken) and \"Danio rerio\" (zebrafish); and one plant species: \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" (thale cress). The human, mouse and rat datasets were the first to be developed, combining information taken from the Swiss-Prot, TrEMBL, Ensembl and RefSeq databases.\n\nIn 2001, when the IPI was launched, databases cataloguing human genes varied greatly and had few links between them. Since then, much more data has been produced giving a more complete picture and databases have collaborated to synchronize data. Currently many model organisms have a reference set of genes/proteins which are catalogued in Ensembl/UniProt respectively, as well as other species specific databases. Because of this redundancy, the IPI was retired in 2011. EBI advised users of its services to employ UniProtKB accession numbers as their protein identifiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3703669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3703669", "title": "Kim Ung-yong", "text": "Kim Ung-yong\n\nKim Ung-Yong (Hangul: 김웅용; born March 8, 1962) is a South Korean professor and former child prodigy, who once held the Guinness World Record for highest IQ, at a score of 210.\n\nKim Ung-yong was born on March 8, 1962 in Seoul, South Korea. His father was a physics professor and his mother was a medical professor. By the time he was one year old, Kim had learned both the Korean alphabet and 1,000 Chinese characters by studying the \"Thousand Character Classic\", a 6th-century Chinese poem. At three years old, he was able to solve calculus problems, and he also published a best-selling book of his essays in English and German, as well as his calligraphy and illustrations. By the age of five, Kim could speak Korean, English, French, German and Japanese. That year, he enrolled at Grant High School in Los Angeles after an article was published about him in \"Look\" magazine that caught the attention of the school. He also audited a physics class at Hanyang University.\n\nAt the age of five, Kim appeared on Fuji Television in Japan and shocked the audience by solving differential equations. He appeared on Japanese television again on November 5, when he solved complicated differential and integral calculus problems.\n\nWhen he was eight years old, Kim went to study nuclear physics at the University of Colorado. After graduating with a master's degree, he went to work for NASA, where he worked for ten years. In 2010, Kim said of his years at NASA, \"At that time, I led my life like a machine―I woke up, solved the daily assigned equation, ate, slept, and so forth. I really didn't know what I was doing, and I was lonely and had no friends.\"\n\nUpon returning to South Korea, Kim was required to formally complete South Korean schooling in order to get a job. He earned his elementary, middle, and high school degrees in just two years. He later enrolled in Chungbuk National University where he studied civil engineering and earned a Ph.D.\n\n, he served as adjunct faculty at Chungbuk National University. On March 14, 2014, he became associate professor in Shinhan University, and became vice president of North Kyeong-gi Development Research Center.\n\nIn 2010, Kim criticized the idea that he is a \"failed genius\" and additionally said, \"Some think people with a high IQ can be omnipotent, but that's not true. Look at me, I don't have musical talent, nor am I excelling in sports. [...] Society should not judge anyone with unilateral standards – everyone has different learning levels, hopes, talents, and dreams and we should respect that.\"\n\nAt age four, Kim scored over 200 on an IQ test normally given to seven-year-olds.\n"}
{"id": "4174625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174625", "title": "Korherr Report", "text": "Korherr Report\n\nThe Korherr Report is a 16-page document on the progress of the Holocaust in German-controlled Europe. It was delivered to Heinrich Himmler in January 1943 by the chief inspector of the statistical bureau of the \"SS\" and professional statistician Dr Richard Korherr under the title \"die Endlösung der Judenfrage\", in English the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\". Korherr, commissioned by Himmler calculated that, from 1937 to December 1942, the number of Jews in Europe had fallen by 4 million. Between October 1939 and December 31, 1942 (see, page 9 of the Report), 1.274 million Jews had been \"processed\" at the camps of General Government and 145,000 at the camps in \"Warthegau\" (location of Kulmhof).\n\nThe decrease of Soviet Russian Jews from the territories overrun in Operation Barbarossa was not included due to lack of statistical data. The summaries came from the RSHA office receiving all \"SS\" reports about the so-called \"already evacuated\" Jews. Their \"special treatment\" was removed from the document on the request of Himmler who intended to share it with Hitler, and replaced by Korherr with \"processed\".\n\nThe initial report, sixteen pages long, was submitted on March 23, 1943. On Himmler's request an abridged version, six-and-a-half pages long, was updated to March 31, 1943. The full report summarized how many Jews remained in Germany, Austria and Europe; detailed the numbers of Jews detained in the Nazi concentration camps; how many Jews had died natural deaths since 1933; and how many Jews had been evacuated to the eastern territories.\nHimmler accepted the full report on a confidential basis, but for the abridged estimate, made Korherr change the word \"Sonderbehandlung\" or \"special treatment,\" to the word \"durchgeschleust\" or \"processed.\" The report calculated that, from 1937 to December 1942, the number of Jews in Europe had fallen by 4 million.\n\nKorherr ascribed this fall to \"emigration, partially due to the excess mortality of the Jews in Central and Western Europe, partially due to the evacuations especially in the more strongly populated Eastern Territories, which are here counted as ongoing.\"\n\nBy way of explanation, Korherr added that \n\nIt must not be overlooked in this respect that of the deaths of Soviet Russian Jews in the occupied Eastern territories only a part was recorded, whereas deaths in the rest of European Russia and at the front are not included at all. In addition there are movements of Jews inside Russia to the Asian part which are unknown to us. The movement of Jews from the European countries outside the German influence is also of a largely unknown order of magnitude. On the whole European Jewry should since 1933, i.e. in the first decade of National Socialist German power, have lost almost half of its population.\n\nKorherr denied all knowledge of the Holocaust, saying that he had \"only heard about exterminations after the collapse in 1945.\"\n\nIn a letter he sent to the German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" in July 1977, Korherr said that he had not written the report on Himmler's order\" and that the \n\nstatement that I had mentioned that over a million Jews had died in the camps of the Generalgouvernement and the Warthegau through special treatment is also inaccurate. I must protest against the word 'died' in this context. It was the very word 'Sonderbehandlung' ['special treatment'] that led me to call the RSHA by phone and ask what this word meant. I was given the answer that these were Jews who were settled in the Lublin district.\n\n"}
{"id": "262871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262871", "title": "Kulturkampf", "text": "Kulturkampf\n\nKulturkampf (, \"culture struggle\") is a German term referring to the conflict\nbetween the German imperial government and the Roman Catholic Church from about 1872 to 1886, predominantly over the control of educational and ecclesiastical appointments. More rarely, the term is used by extension to refer to the power struggles between emerging constitutional democratic nation states and the Roman Catholic Church over the place and role of religion in modern polity, usually in connection with secularization campaigns.\n\nThe term Kulturkampf entered many languages, e.g.: French: le Kulturkampf, Spanish: el Kulturkampf, Italian: il Kulturkampf.\nIt first appeared c. 1840 in an anonymous review of a publication by Swiss-German liberal Ludwig Snell on \"The Importance of the Struggle of Liberal Catholic Switzerland with the Roman Curia\". But it only gained wider currency after liberal member of the Prussian parliament, Rudolph Virchow, used it in 1873.\n\nIn contemporary socio-political discussion, the term Kulturkampf (see also culture war) is often used to describe any conflict between secular and religious authorities or deeply opposing values, beliefs between sizable factions within a nation, community, or other group.\n\nUnder the influence of ascending new philosophies and ideologies such as the enlightenment, realism, positivism, materialism, nationalism, secularism and liberalism, the role of religion in society and the relationship between society and church underwent profound changes in the 18th and 19th centuries. Many countries endeavoured to strip the church of worldly powers, reduce the duties of the church to spiritual affairs by secularising the public sphere and by separation of church and state and to assert the supremacy of the state, especially in education. Róisín Healy argues that across Europe, the Kulturkampf operated mainly on state-level and was found \"especially in strongholds of liberalism, anti-clericalism, and anti-Catholicism.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church resisted this development which it portrayed as an attack on religion and sought to maintain and even strengthen its strong role in state and society.\nWith the growing influence of enlightenment and after having lost much of its wealth, power and influence in the mediatisation and secularization of the early 19th century the church had been in a state of decline.\nThe papacy at this time was at a weak point in its history, having just lost all its territories to Italy, with the pope a \"prisoner\" in the Vatican.\nThe church strove to revert its waning influence and to keep sway in such matters as e. g. marriage, family and education and initiated a Catholic revival by founding associations, papers, schools, social establishments or new orders and encouraging religious practices such as pilgrimages, mass assemblies, the devotion of Virgin Mary or the sacred heart of Jesus and the veneration of relics; the pope himself became an object of devotion. Apart from the extraordinary proliferation of religious orders, the 19th. century also witnessed the rise of countless Catholic associations and organisations, especially in Germany and in France. Catholic propaganda including the interpretation of daily events was spread through local and national Catholic newspapers prominent in all western European nations as well as through organized missions and groups dedicated to pious literature.\n\nIn the 19th. century, the Catholic Church promulgated a series of contentious dogmas and encyclicals: In\n\n\nUnder the leadership of his successor, Pope Pius IX, in\n\n\nWith its \"Syllabus of Errors\" of 1864, the Catholic Church launched an assault on the new ideologies condemning 80 philosophical and political statements, mainly the foundations of the modern nation state, as false. It outright rejected such concepts as freedom of religion, free thought, separation of church and state, civil marriage, sovereignty of the people, democracy, liberalism and socialism, reason as the sole base of human action and in general condemned the idea of conciliation with progress. The announcements included an index of forbidden books.\n\nA profound change was the gradual reorganization of the Catholic Church and its expansive use of the media. The popes worked to increase their control of the Church. Heavily criticized by European governments, it was centralized and streamlined with a strict hierarchy, the bishops sought direction from the Vatican and the needs and views of the international church were given priority over the local ones. Opponents of the new hierarchical church organization pejoratively called it ultramontanism.\nIn view of the church's opposition to enlightenment, liberal reforms and the revolutions of the 18th/19th centuries, these dogmas and the church's expressed insistence on papal primacy angered the liberal-minded all across Europe, even among some Catholics, adding fuel to the heated debates.\n\nThe dogmas represented a threat to the secularized state as they reaffirmend that the fundamental allegiance of Catholics was not to their nation-state, but to the Gospel and the Church and that the pope's teaching was absolutely authoritative and binding on all the faithful. Secular politicians even wondered whether \"Catholicism and allegiance to the modern liberal state were not mutually exclusive\". British Prime Minister Gladstone wrote in 1874 that the teaching on papal infallibility compromised the allegiance of faithful English Catholics. For European liberalism, the dogmas were a declaration of war against the modern state, science and spiritual freedom.\n\nThe pope's handling of dissent of the dogmas, e. g. by excommunication of critics or demanding their removal from schools and universities, was considered as \"epitome of papal authoritarianism\".\nIn direct response to the Vatican's announcements, Austria passed the so-called May-Laws for Cisleithania in 1868, restricting the Concordat of 1855, and then cancelled the concordat altogether in 1870.\nSaxony and Bavaria withheld approval to publish the papal infallibility; Hesse and Baden even denied any legal validity. France refused to publish the doctrines altogether; Spain forbade publication of Syllabus of Errors in 1864.\n\nBy the mid-nineteenth century, liberal policies had also come to dominate Germany and the separation of church and state became a prominent issue.\n\nThe Kulturkampf in Germany is usually framed by the years 1871 and 1878 with the Catholic Church officially announcing its end in 1880 but the struggle in Germany had been an ongoing matter without definite beginning and the years 1871 to 1878 only mark its culmination in Prussia and Germany. In the wake of other European countries, most German states had taken first steps of secularisation well before unification. Predominantly Catholic Baden was at the forefront curbing the power of the Catholic Church (1852–1854 Baden Church Dispute) and (1864–1876 Kulturkampf Baden, see ). Other examples are Prussia (1830s, 1850, 1859 and 1969), Württemberg (1859/1862), Bavaria (1867, see ), Hesse-Nassau or Hesse-Darmstadt.\n\nIn the 1837 Kölner Wirren (Cologne Confusion; ) of legal and policy issues regarding the children of mixed Protestant-Catholic marriages, Prussia's final settlement was considered a defeat for the state as it had given in to demands of the Catholic Church.\nIn 1850, Prussia again had a dispute with the church about civil marriage and primary schools and in 1852, it issued decrees against the Jesuits.\nAs in many European countries, Jesuits were being banned or heavily restricted in many of the German states e. g. in Saxony (1831) and even in Catholic ones such as Bavaria (1851), Baden (1860) or Württemberg (1862).\n\nNot to be left out, the German areas to the west of the Rhine had already gone through a process of separation of church and state in line with a radical secularization after annexation by revolutionary and Napoleonic France in 1794. After their return to Germany in 1814, many if not most of the changes were kept in place.\n\nIn the Vormärz-years, Catholic publications usually portrayed revolutions as negative and dangerous to the existing order as well as to the interests of the Catholic Church. Most of them considered a viable Catholicism to be necessary for the very health of society and state and to be the only true and effective protection against the scourge of revolution.\nThe unsuccessful German revolutions of 1848–49, which the Catholic Church had opposed, produced no democratic reforms and attempts to radically disentangle state-church relationships failed. In the revolutionary parliament, many prominent representatives of political Catholicism took the side of the extreme right-wingers. In the years following the revolution, Catholicism became increasingly politicised due to the massive anti-modernist and anti-liberal policies of the Vatican.\n\nIn the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 and Franco-Prussian War of 1870 the Catholic Church sided against Prussia and it was an outspoken opponent of German unification under Prussia (as well as of Italy's unification).\n\nThe Catholic dogmas and doctrines announced in 1854, 1864 and 1870 were perceived in Germany as direct attacks on the modern nation state. Thus, Bismarck, the Liberals and the Conservatives representing orthodox Protestants found the Centre Party's support of the pope highly provocative. Many Catholics shared these sentiments, especially against the pope's declared infallibility and the majority of Catholic German bishops deemed the definition of the dogma as \"'unpropitious' in light of the situation in Germany\". While most Catholics eventually reconciled themselves to the doctrine, some founded the small breakaway Old Catholic Church. \n\nAccording to the Bavarian head of government, Hohenlohe, the dogma of infallibility compromised the Catholic's loyalty to the state. He sent a circular to all the diplomatic representatives of the Bavarian Kingdom saying, \"The only dogmatic thesis which Rome desires to have decided by the Council, and which the Jesuits in Italy and Germany are now agitating, is the question of the Infallibility of the Pope. This pretension once become a dogma, will have a wider scope than the purely spiritual spheres, and will become evidently a political question: for it will raise the power of the Sovereign Pontiff, even in temporal matters, above all the princes and peoples of Christendom.\"\n\nThe liberal majorities in the Imperial Diet and the Prussian parliament as well as liberals in general regarded the Church as backward, a hotbed for reactionaries, enemies of progress and cast monastic life as the epitome of a backward Catholic medievalism. They were alarmed by the dramatic rise in the numbers of monasteries, convents and clerical religious groups in an era of widespread religious revival. The Diocese of Cologne, for example, saw a tenfold increase of monks and nuns between 1850 and 1872. Prussian authorities were particularly suspicious of the spread of monastic life among the Polish and French minorities.\nThe Church, in turn, saw the National-Liberals its worst enemy, accusing them of spearheading the war against Christianity and the Catholic Church.\n\nAt unification in 1871, the new German Empire included 25.5 million Protestants (62% of the population) and 15 million Catholics (36.5% of the population). Although a minority in the empire, Catholics were the majority in the states of Bavaria, Baden, and Alsace-Lorraine as well as in the four Prussian Provinces of West Prussia, Posen, Rhineland, Westphalia and in the Prussian region of Upper Silesia. Since the Thirty Years' War the population was generally segregated along religious lines and rural areas or towns were overwhelmingly if not entirely of the same religion. Education was also separate and usually in the hands of the churches. There was little mutual tolerance, interaction or intermarriage. Protestants in general were deeply distrustful of the Catholic Church.\n\nUnification had been achieved through many obstacles with strong opponents. These were the European powers of France and Austria, both Catholic nations, and the Catholic Church itself, the three of which Bismarck perceived as \"Coalition of Catholic Revenge\". For Bismarck, the empire was very fragile and its consolidation was an important issue. Biographer Otto Pflanze emphasizes, \"Bismarck's belief in the existence of a widespread Catholic conspiracy that posed a threat to both his German and European policies.\"\n\nIn a Protestant empire, the Catholic Church was to lose its good standing which it had enjoyed for centuries in the Catholic-dominated Holy Roman Empire and which it would have continued to enjoy in a German empire united under Austrian auspices. Thus, in 1870, on the eve of unification, the Center Party was explicitly founded to defend the position of the church in the new empire.\n\nBismarck was highly concerned that many major members and supporters of this new party were not in sympathy with the new empire: the House of Hanover, the ethnic minority of the Poles, the southern German states. In 1871, the predominantly Catholic states of Southern Germany had only reluctantly joined the empire, increasing the overall share of the Catholic population to 36.5%. Among this Catholic share was Germany's largest ethnic minority, well over 2 million Poles in the east of Prussia, who under Prussia and Germany suffered discrimination and oppression. Bismarck regarded the new Centre Party not only as an illegal mixup of politics and religion and the church's \"long arm\" but also as a unifying force for Catholic Germans and Poles and thus a threat to the consolidation of the empire. He feared that the Centre Party would frustrate his broader political agendas and he accused the Catholic priests of fostering Polish nationalism as had been done openly in the provinces of Posen and Upper Silesia.\n\nThe Liberals regarded the Catholic Church as a powerful force of reaction and anti-modernity, especially after the proclamation of papal infallibility in 1870 and the tightening control of the Vatican over the local bishops. The renewed vitality of Catholicism in Germany with its mass gatherings also attracted Protestants – even the heir to the Prussian throne, with the king's approval, attended one.\nAntiliberalism, anticlericalism and anti-Catholicism became powerful intellectual forces of the time and the antagonism between Liberals and Protestants on one side and the Catholic Church on the other was fought out through mud-slinging in the press. A wave of anti-Catholic, anticlerical and antimonastic pamphleteering in the liberal press was answered by antiliberal preaching and propaganda in Catholic newspapers and vice versa.\n\nFor these reasons, the government sought to wean the Catholic masses away from the hierarchy and the Centre Party and the liberal's demands to curb the power of the churches meshed well with Bismarck's main political objective to crush the Centre Party.\nAccording to historian Anthony J. Steinhoff, \"Bismarck's plan to disarm political Catholicism delighted liberal politicians, who provided the parliamentary backing for the crusade. Yet, the phrase the left-liberal Rudolf Virchow coined for this struggle, the Kulturkampf, suggests that the liberals wanted to do more than prevent Catholicism from becoming a political force. They wanted victory over Catholicism itself, the long-delayed conclusion of the Reformation\".\n\nAt least since 1847 and in line with the Liberals, Bismarck had also been of the professed opinion, that state and church should be completely separated and \"the sphere of the state had to be made secure against the incursions by the church\", although his ideas were not as far-reaching as in the United States or in Great Britain. He had in mind the traditional position of the Protestant church in Prussia and provoked considerable resistance from conservative Protestants. This became clear in a heated debate with Prussian culture minister von Mühler in 1871 when Bismarck said: \"Since you stopped my plans in the Protestant church, I have to go via Rome\". In August 1871 at Bad Ems, Bismarck revealed his intention to fight against the Centre Party, to separate state and church, to transfer school inspection to laymen, to abolish religious instruction from schools and to transfer religious affairs to the minister of justice.\n\nOn 22 January 1872, liberal Adalbert Falk replaced conservative Heinrich von Mühler as Prussian minister for religion, education and health. In Bismarck's mind, Falk was \"to re-establish the rights of the state in relation to the church\". Yet, unlike Bismarck, whose main motivation for the Kulturkampf was the political power struggle with the Centre Party, Falk, a lawyer, was a strong proponent of state authority having in mind the legal aspects of state-church relationships. Falk became the driving force behind the Kulturkampf laws. Although Bismarck publicly supported Falk, he doubted the success of his laws and was unhappy with his lack of political tact and sensitivity. The differences in their attitudes concerning the Kulturkampf eventually put the two politicians at odds with each other.\n\nWith this background and the determination of church and state, the Kulturkampf in Germany acquired an additional edge as it gathered in intensity and bitterness.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1876, the Prussian state parliament and the federal legislature (\"Reichstag\"), both with liberal majorities, enacted 22 laws in the context of the Kulturkampf. They were mainly directed against clerics: bishops, priests and religious orders (anti-clerical) and enforced the supremacy of the state over the church. While several laws were specific to the Catholic Church (Jesuits, congregations etc.) the general laws affected both Catholic and Protestant churches.\nIn an attempt to overcome increasing resistance by the Catholic Church and its defiance of the laws, new regulations increasingly went beyond state matters referring to the purely internal affairs of the church. Even many liberals saw them as an encroachment on civil liberties, compromising their own credo.\n\nConstitutionally, education and regulation of religious affairs were vested in the federal states and the leading actor of the Kulturkampf was Prussia, Germany's largest state. But some of the laws were also passed by the Reichstag and applied to all of Germany. In general, the laws did not affect the press and associations including Catholic ones.\n\nThe major Kulturkampf laws were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe last two laws passed in 1876 were of no practical importance.\n\nThe political situation in Europe was very volatile. Initially perceived as a possible enemy hostile to German unification under Prussian leadership, Austria and Germany very quickly became friends and formed the Dual Alliance in 1879. The possibility of a war with France or Russia also became more remote. Therefore, social and economic problems moved to the fore and Bismarck's attention gradually turned to other topics he deemed more threatening such as the increasing popularity of the socialists or more important such as questions of import duties. In these matters, he could either not rely on the support of the liberals to pursue his goals or they were not sufficient to form a majority.\nBismarck had not been comfortable with the increasing ferocity of the Kulturkampf. Concerning the rise of the Centre Party, the laws had proven to be greatly ineffective and even counterproductive. He soon realized that they were of no help battling the Centre Party and as far as separation of state and church was concerned, he had achieved more than he wanted.\n\nIn order to garner support for his Anti-Socialist Laws and protective trade tariffs,\nBismarck turned his back on the liberals in search of new alliances. The death of Pius IX on 7 February 1878 opened the door for a settlement with the Catholic Church. The new pope, Leo XIII was pragmatic and conciliatory and expressed his wish for peace in a letter to the Prussian king on the very day of his election followed by a second letter in a similar vein that same year.\n\nBismarck and the Pope entered into direct negotiations without the participation of the Church or the Reichstag, yet initially without much success. It came to pass that Falk, vehemently resented by Catholics, resigned on 14 July 1879, which could be read as a peace offering to the Vatican. A decisive boost only came in February 1880, when the Vatican unexpectedly agreed to the civic registry of clerics. As the Kulturkampf slowly wound down the talks lead to a number of so-called mitigation and peace laws which were passed until 1887.\n\n\nOn 29 September 1885, as another sign of peace, Bismarck proposed the Pope as arbiter in a dispute with Spain about the Caroline Islands and accepted his verdict in favour of Spain. In gratitude but to the great horror of Catholics, the Pope awarded Bismarck the Supreme Order of Christ, the highest order of chivalry to be granted by the Holy See. Bismarck was the only Protestant ever to receive this award.\n\nAfter further negotiations between Prussia and the Vatican, the Prussian parliament passed 2 additional laws amending some of the Kulturkampf laws.\nOn 23 May 1887, the Pope declared \"The struggle which damaged the church and was of no good to the state is now over\". The Mitigation and Peace Laws restored the inner autonomy of the Catholic church while leaving key regulations and the laws concerning separation of church and state in place (civic marriage, civic registry, religious disaffiliation, government school supervision, civic registry of clerics, ban of Jesuits, pulpit law, state supervision of church assets, constitutional amendments and the Catholic section in the Ministry of Culture was not reintroduced).\n\nThe respective opposing parties in the Reichstag harshly criticized the concessions made by the Vatican and the Prussian government.\nWindthorst and the Centre Party were dismayed at being sidelined and not being consulted about the concessions the pope made, e. g. about the ban on Jesuits or the civil registry of clerics. None of the party's major demands were met. Instead, the pope even sided with Bismarck on non-religious issues and pressured the Centre Party to support Bismarck or at least abstain, e. g. in the matter of the hotly debated Septennat 1887 (7-year military budget).\nMany Liberals, especially Falk, objected to the concessions Bismarck made to the Church.\n\nThe growth of the Centre Party has been considered a major setback for Bismarck although never publicly conceded. Yet, in spite of strong Catholic representation in the Reichstag, the political power and influence of the Church in the public sphere and its political power was greatly reduced.\n\nAlthough Germany and the Vatican were officially at peace after 1878, religious conflicts and tensions continued. At the turn of the century, Pope Pius X announced the encyclical Pascendi dominici gregis, mounting new attacks on historical criticism of biblical texts and any accommodation of Catholicism to modern philosophy, sociology or literature. As of 1910, clerics had to take an oath against all forms of modernism, a requirement later extended to teachers of Catholic religion at schools and professors of Catholic theology resulting in intense political and public debates and new conflicts with the state.\n\nThe abolishment of the Catholic section of the Prussian Ministry of ecclesiastical and educational affairs deprived Catholics of their voice at the highest level. The system of strict government supervision of schools was applied only in Catholic areas; the Protestant schools were left alone. The school politics also alienated Protestant conservatives and churchmen.\n\nThe British ambassador Odo Russell reported to London in October 1872 how Bismarck's plans were backfiring by strengthening the ultramontane (pro-papal) position inside German Catholicism:\n\nNearly all German bishops, clergy and laymen rejected the legality of the new laws and were defiantly facing the increasingly heavy penalties, trials and imprisonments. As of 1878, only three of eight Prussian dioceses still had bishops, some 1,125 of 4,600 parishes were vacant, and nearly 1,800 priests ended up in jail or in exile, nearly half the monks and nuns had left Prussia, a third of the monasteries and convents were closed. Between 1872 and 1878, numerous Catholic newspapers were confiscated, Catholic associations and assemblies were dissolved, and Catholic civil servants were dismissed merely on the pretence of having Ultramontane sympathies. Thousands of laypeople were imprisoned for assisting priests to evade the punitive new laws.\n\nThe general ideological enthusiasm among the liberals for the Kulturkampf was in contrast to Bismarck's pragmatic attitude towards the measures and growing disquiet from the Conservatives.\nApart from the outspoken criticism of the Kulturkampf Laws by the Catholic Church and the Centre Party, there were also a number of Liberals and Protestants who voiced concern at least at the so-called \"Kampfgesetze\" (battle laws). \"Unease concerning the effects of his programme continued to spread among all but the most bigoted priest-haters and the most doctrinaire liberals\".\nSuch noted critics outside the Catholic camp were Friedrich Heinrich Geffcken, Emil Albert Friedberg or Julius von Kirchmann. Although they were proponents of state superiority, they regarded some of the laws as either ineffective or as interference in internal church affairs and not consistent with liberal values. Geffcken wrote that \"with the intention to emancipate the laity from the hierarchy, the main body of the Catholics was brought in phalanx into the hands of leaders from which it was to be wrested. But the state cannot fight at length against a third of the population, it has no means to break such a passive resistance supported and organized by religious fanaticism. If a statesman desists from the correctness of a measure it only matters that he has the power to enforce it.\"\nEven Bismarck – who initially saw a variety of tactical political advantages in these measures, e. g. for his suppressive policies against the Polish population – took pains to distance himself from the rigors of their enforcement.\"\n\nThe Kulturkampf law considered the harshest and with no equivalent in Europe was the Expatriation Law. Passed by a liberal majority in parliament, it stipulated banishment as a punishment that all civilized peoples considered the harshest beyond the death penalty.\n\nAs to the Centre Party, these measures did not have the effect that Bismarck had in mind. In the state elections of November 1873, it grew from 50 to 90 seats and in the Reichstag elections from 63 to 91. The number of Catholic periodicals also increased; in 1873 there were about 120.\n\nThe Kulturkampf gave secularists and socialists an opportunity to attack all religions, an outcome that distressed the Protestant leaders and especially Bismarck himself, who was a devout pietistic Protestant.\n\nIn the face of systematic defiance, the Bismarck government increased the penalties and its attacks, and were challenged in 1875 when a papal encyclical declared that the entire ecclesiastical legislation of Prussia was invalid, and threatened to excommunicate any Catholic who obeyed. There was no violence, but the Catholics mobilized their support, set up numerous civic organizations, raised money to pay fines and rallied behind their church and the Center Party.\n\nTo Bismarck's surprise, the Conservative Party especially the Junkers from his own landowning class in East Prussia sided with the Catholics. They were Protestants and did not like the Pope, but they had much in common with the Center Party. The Conservatives controlled their local schools and did not want bureaucrats from Berlin to take them over. They were hostile to the liberals, being fearful of free trade that would put them in competition with the United States and other grain exporters, and disliking their secular views. In the Prussian legislature, they sided with the Center Party on the school issue. Bismarck was livid, and he resigned the premiership of Prussia (while remaining Chancellor of the German Empire), telling an ally, \"in domestic affairs I have lost the ground that is for me acceptable through the unpatriotic treason of the Conservative Party in the Catholic question.\" Indeed, many of Bismarck's conservative friends were in opposition. So too was Kaiser William I, who was King of Prussia; he was strongly opposed to the civil marriage component of the Kulturkampf.\n\nThe Kulturkampf made Catholics more resolute; they responded not with violence but with votes, and as the newly formed Center Party became a major force in the Imperial Parliament, it gained support from non-Catholic minorities who felt threatened by Bismarck's centralization of power.\nIn the long run, the most significant result was the mobilization of the Catholic voters through the Center Party, and their insistence on protecting their church. Historian Margaret Anderson says:\nAfter the Center party had doubled its popular vote in the elections of 1874, it became the second largest party in the national parliament, and remained a powerful force for the next 60 years. It became difficult for Bismarck to form a government without their support.\nFrom the decades-long experience in battling against the Kulturkampf, the Catholics of Germany, says Professor Margaret Anderson, learned democracy. She states that the clergy:\n\nThe Poles had already suffered from discrimination and numerous oppressive measures in Germany long before unification. These measures were intensified after the German Empire was formed and Bismarck was known to be particularly hostile towards the Poles. Christopher Clark argues that Prussian policy changed radically in the 1870s in the face of highly visible Polish support for France in the Franco-Prussian war. Polish demonstrations made clear the Polish nationalist feeling, and calls were also made for Polish recruits to desert from the Prussian Army – though these went unheeded. Bismarck was outraged, telling the Prussian cabinet in 1871: From the Russian border to the Adriatic Sea we are confronted with the combined propaganda of Slavs, ultramontanes, and reactionaries, and it is necessary openly to defend our national interests and our language against such hostile actions. Therefore, in the Province of Posen the Kulturkampf took on a much more nationalistic character than in other parts of Germany.\nNot an adamant supporter of the Liberal's general Kulturkampf goals, Bismarck did recognize the potential in some of them for subduing Polish national aspirations and readily made use of it. While the Liberals main objective was the separation of state and church as essential for a democratic and liberal society, Bismarck saw its use in separating the Polish population from the only supporter and guardian of its national identity.\nPrussian authorities imprisoned 185 priests and forced hundreds of others into exile. Among the imprisoned was the Primate of Poland Archbishop Mieczysław Ledóchowski. A large part of the remaining Catholic priests had to continue their service in hiding from the authorities. Although most of the 185 imprisoned were finally set free by the end of the decade, those who were released emigrated.\nThe official end of the Kulturkampf had little influence on the policies of Germanization which continued in the Polish-inhabited parts of the country.\n\nAround the same time as in Germany, a Kulturkampf was also raging in Switzerland with roots dating back to the 1830 and well beyond to the era of enlightenment and the Helvetic Republic. In fact, it was in the Swiss context that the term \"Kulturkampf\" first appeared in a publication.\nThe 1830s were years of liberal regeneration and 12 cantons with liberal majorities enacted new constitutions with radical changes in the relationship between state and churches, especially putting education under government control.\n\nThese changes mainly affected the Catholic Church and its clerics resisted the new regulations. On 2 January 1834, at a meeting in Baden, the cantons of Lucerne, Bern, Zug, Solothurn, Basel-Landschaft, St. Gall, Aargau and Thurgau passed the \"Resolution of Baden\" (see ) to assert the demands of the state. A conservative backlash 1839 in Zurich (Züriputsch) and 1841 in Lucerne (in connection with the Aargau monastery dispute), the violent repression of the liberals in Valais by the Ultramontanes and the appointment of Jesuits to secondary schools in Lucerne led to the establishment of Freischar (rebel) forces in various liberal cantons. This in turn prompted the conservative cantons, initially secret, to form the \"Sonderbund\" (Special Union) in December 1845. In July 1847 the Federal Diet voted to dissolve the Sonderbund, amend the constitution and to expel the Jesuits which led to protests not only by the Vatican but also from the big conservative European powers of France, Russia, pre-revolutionary Prussia and Austria. The liberals had the undisguised support of England. The Sonderbund War broke out on 3. November 1847 and lasted until the surrender of the last conservative canton, Valais, on 29. November. Liberal constitutions were installed in all cantons. With revolutions breaking out in France and Germany threats by these powers remained empty.\n\nThe years from 1830 to the end of the Sonderbundwar are considered the first phase of the Swiss Kulturkampf. A second phase started with various disputes and conflicts in the 1870s.\n\nWalter Munzinger, unhappy with the dogma of papal infallibility, organized the first Swiss convention of Catholics in Solothurn on 18 September 1871 for like-minded Catholics. This convention is considered the beginning of the Christian Catholic Church of Switzerland, a member church of the Union of Utrecht of Old Catholic Churches.\n\nOne of the disputes was about the town priest of Geneva, Gaspar Mermillod, who assumed the powers of the bishop for the local Catholics without the approval of the government. Despite the protest of the state council Mermillod continued to execute these powers; as a result, he was deposed on 20 September 1872. On 16 January, the Roman Curia appointed Mermillod as vicar apostolic for the Canton of Geneva. In response, the Swiss Federal Council expelled him. After pope Pius IX called these proceedings by the Swiss authorities \"disgraceful\" in an encyclical of 20 November 1873, the Federal Council broke off diplomatic relations with the Vatican on 12 December 1873.\n\nAfter the Council of 1870, bishop Eugène Lachat of the Diocese of Basel proclaimed the dogma of papal infallibility in his diocese even though the respective cantons (Solothurn, Lucerne, Zug, Bern, Aargau, Thurgau and Basel-Landschaft) had expressly forbidden him to do so. Two priests in Lucerne and Starrkirch did not acknowledge the new dogma. Lachat deposed and excommunicated them. Thereupon, the cantons Solothurn, Bern, Aargau, Thurgau and Basel-Landschaft deposed the bishop on 29 January 1873 and when the cathedral chapter refused to appoint an interim bishop, on 21 December 1874 they dissolved the diocese of Basel and liquidated Lachat's assets. Lachat moved his office from Solothurn to Lucerne. 97 clerics in the predominantly Catholic part of the canton Berne (today canton Jura) protested against the deposition of the bishop and the dissolution of the diocese. They proclaimed Lachat to be their rightful bishop at which the Federal Council deposed them. Rioting in several villages of the Jura region was quelled by force and military occupation; the 97 clerics were expelled in January 1874. The federal government rescinded this ordinance in 1875 but supremacy over the church by the canton of Berne was confirmed in a plebiscite.\n\nIn 1874, Switzerland enacted the second federal constitution which was accepted in a plebiscite. Except for the following restrictions, for the first time, this constitution allowed complete freedom of religion.\n\nIn December 1874, the University of Bern established a faculty for Catholic theology with the aim to train liberal-minded Catholic priests for the Jura region.\n\nThe Kulturkampf in Austria has roots dating back to the 18th. century. Emperor Joseph II launched a religious policy later called \"Josephinism\" advocating the supremacy of the state in religious matters. This resulted in far-reaching state control over the Catholic Church in Austria including e. g. the reorganization of dioceses, regulating the number of masses, the transfer of many schools into government hands, state-controlled seminaries, limiting the number of clerics and dissolving numerous monasteries. Protests of Pope Pius VI and even his visit to Vienna in 1782 were to no avail.\nIn the concordat of 1855, the culmination of Catholic influence in Austria, many of the Catholic Church's previous rights taken away under Joseph II were restored (marriage, partial control of censorship, elementary and secondary education, full control of clergy and religious fund.\n\nIn 1886 and 1869, after sanctioning the December constitution, the new cabinet appointed by emperor Francis Joseph undid parts of the concordat with several liberal reforms enacted in the so-called May Laws. Against strong protests from the Catholic Church, the laws of 25 May 1868 and 14 May 1869 restored civil marriage, passed primary and secondary education into government hands, installed interconfessional schools and regulated interconfessional relations (e. g. mixed marriages, faith of children including option of free choice).\n\nIn a secret consistory, Pope Pius IX condemned the constitution of 1867 and the May laws as \"leges abominabiles\". In a pastoral letter on 7 September 1868, bishop Franz-Josef Rudigier called for resistance to these May laws. The letter was confiscated and he had to appear before court on 5 June 1869 which, for the first time, lead to public demonstrations of the Catholic population. On 12 July 1869, the bishop was sentenced to a jail term of two weeks, but pardoned by the emperor.\n\nThe May laws provoked a serious conflict between state and church. Austria abrogated the concordat of 1855 in 1870 after the promulgation of papal infallibility and abolished it in altogether in 1874. In May 1874, the Religious Act was officially recognized.\n\nThe Kulturkampf in Italy is a very early example of the struggles between states and the Catholic Church; Italian liberals and democrats contributed substantially to the secularist project of modernity and had a strong effect on its own history.\n\nPiedmont had a similar role in the unification of Italy as Prussia in Germany and it had been at the forefront in the struggle against the Catholic Church as far back as the 17th century under Victor Amadeus. The Church rejected an edict of 1694 tolerating the Waldensians. In the ensuing dispute, Amadeus prohibited the publication of the pope's decree and many dioceses remained vacant. Amadeus demanded secular approval of clerical postings (bishops, priests, monasteries) and for ecclesiastical acts. Repeated negotiations brought no results, all the while the Vatican pronounced excommunications on secular officials and Amadeus countered with severe measures against clerics. The acquisition of Sardinia in 1720 added more issues about Church rights on the island. It was only under the following pope, Benedict XIII that negotiations were taken up again and an agreement was found in 1727 in which the Church relinquished some its previous rights. Under Amadeus’ successor, Charles Emmanuel, the Kingdom of Sardinia continued to press the Church hard for further concessions concerning ecclesiastical jurisdiction and taxation up to 1750.\n\nAs a result of the revolutions of 1848, King Charles Albert granted the Kingdom a constitution, summoned a liberal cabinet and assumed the leadership for the unification of Italy. That same year the Jesuits were banned, as in most Italian states, and a liberal school law was enacted. In 1849, the archbishops of Turin and Sassari were imprisoned. In 1850, ecclesiastical immunities were lifted and ecclesiastical jurisdiction further restricted. 1851 saw the introduction of regulated theological instruction, 1852 the introduction of civil marriage. In 1853 the office of the Apostolic royal steward was secularized. Laws of 1854 banned monasteries, of 1855 the Ecclesiastical Academy of Superga and as of 1856, regulations followed concerning priests and parish administration and the confiscation of Church lands.\nAs of 1852, these policies were enacted under the liberal prime minister of the kingdom, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour who pursued Italian unification with the aim of Rome as the capital.\nIn 1860, the Kingdom of Sardinia annexed all the Church territories (Romagna, Marche and Umbria) except the Patrimonium Petri and Rome itself which was protected by French troops, The pope excommunicated the \"thieves of Church state\" Victor Emmanuel proclaimed the Kingdom of Italy and became its first King. Cavour made an offer to the pope, to guarantee the Church's sovereignty and far-reaching privileges in turn for the Church to give up the city of Rome. Pius IX declined. In 1861, Cavour submitted another offer, adding a regular payment to the pope and the king giving up his right to appoint bishops. Again, the pope declined.\n\nWhen the French pulled their troops out of Rome due to the Franco-Prussian war, Italy, encouraged by the German envoy von Arnim, seized the remaining Church territory and the city on 20 September 1870 after which Rome became the Italian capital. The Vatican resisted any recognition of the Italian state until 1929.\nThrough the years, the anti-church laws of Piedmont and Sardinia were extended to every expansion and eventually taken over by the new Italian state.\n\nIn 1887, under prime minister Crispi, Italy added the abolishment of church tithes; in 1888 it passed a law making access to primary school religious instruction more difficult, in 1889 the pulpit law was added to the criminal code and the law on the \"opere pie\", putting control of a vast network of endowments and trust funds financing both religious and charitable works into public authority.\n\nWell into the 19th. century, the Catholic Church dominated education in Belgium\nand every attempt to reform schools was met with fierce resistance by the Catholic Church.\n\nThe struggle reached a pivotal point under the liberal government of Walthère Frère-Orban (see ). From 1879 to 1884 there was a political crisis over state control of education and religious courses in public (see First School War). On 1 June 1879, Frère-Orban passed an Education Act secularizing primary education.\nThe new law imposed recognized diplomas for teachers, stipulated state supervision of all schools and stripped Catholicism of its status as the basis of education. Religious instruction in schools was possible outside the curriculum on request of parents. Municipalities were required to supply at least one neutral school and founding or subsidising private schools were banned. A new law on secondary schools was in the same vein. It was to guarantee parents the freedom of choice between religious and neutral schools. By 1883, 3,885 secular schools had opened across the country.\n\nTo the Catholic Church, this was a declaration of all-out war. It called for a boycott of these new schools and it managed to mobilise almost the entire Catholic camp. Staff and supporters of public schools and parents who sent their children were denied communion and in effect excommunicated. The government cut diplomatic relations with the Vatican and measures against rebellious civil servants and clergy added fire to the heat. The Church required priests to establish Catholic schools in every parish and attendance of Catholic schools rose from 13 percent to over 60 percent.\n\nIn part due to this conflict, the liberals lost the elections in 1884. The Catholic government under Jules Malou amended the Education Law providing public support for religious schools as well and, in 1895, religious education became compulsory in all schools. From then on, with changing majorities in parliament, regulations were made either more in favour of the Church or more in favour of the Liberals, each time to the dissatisfaction of the opposition. The struggle resulted in the development of two opposing school systems: the so-called religious \"free schools\" and the government schools. The dispute remained unsolved and broke out again in the 1950s (Second School War).\n\nIn the late 19th century, cultural wars arose over issues of prohibition and education in the United States. The Bennett Law was a highly controversial state law passed in Wisconsin in 1889 that required the use of English to teach major subjects in all public and private elementary and high schools. Because Wisconsin German Catholics and Lutherans each operated large numbers of parochial schools where German was used in the classroom, it was bitterly resented by German-American (and some Norwegian) communities. Although the law was ultimately repealed, there were significant political repercussions, with the Republicans losing the governorship and the legislature, and the election of Democrats to the Senate and House of Representatives.\n\nIn the United States, the terms \"culture war\" and \"culture wars\" refer to conflict in the late 20th and early 21st centuries between religious social conservatives and secular social liberals. This theme of \"culture war\" was the basis of Patrick Buchanan's keynote speech at the 1992 Republican National Convention. The term \"culture war\" by 2004 was in common use in the United States by both liberals and conservatives.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, there were battles in Congress and the media regarding federal support for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities that amounted to a war over high culture between neoconservatives and paleoconservatives.\nJustice Antonin Scalia referenced the term in the Supreme Court case \"Romer v. Evans\", 517 U.S. 620 (1996), saying \"The Court has mistaken a \"Kulturkampf\" for a fit of spite.\" The case concerned an amendment to the Colorado state constitution that prohibited any subdepartment from acting to protect individuals on the basis of sexual orientation. Scalia believed that the amendment was a valid move on the part of citizens who sought \"recourse to a more general and hence more difficult level of political decision making than others.\" The majority disagreed, holding that the amendment violated the Equal Protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe term, translated to Hebrew, (Milhemet Tarbut, \"מלחמת תרבות\") is also frequently used, with similar connotations, in the political debates of Israel—having been introduced by Jews who fled Nazi Germany in the 1930s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53662117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53662117", "title": "List of German words of French origin", "text": "List of German words of French origin\n\nThis is a list of German words and expressions of French origin. Some of them were borrowed in medieval times, some were introduced by Huguenot immigrants in the 17th and 18th centuries and others have been borrowed in the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuden - Das Herkunftswörterbuch. Etymologie der deutschen Sprache. 2013. \n"}
{"id": "271030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271030", "title": "Macquarie Dictionary", "text": "Macquarie Dictionary\n\nThe Macquarie Dictionary () is a dictionary of Australian English. It is generally held by universities and the legal profession to be the authoritative source on Australian English. It also pays considerable attention to New Zealand English. Originally it was a publishing project of Jacaranda Press, a Brisbane educational publisher, for which an editorial committee was formed, largely from the Linguistics department of Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. It is now published by Macquarie Dictionary Publishers an imprint of Pan Macmillan Australia Pty Ltd. In October 2007 it moved its editorial office away from Macquarie University to the University of Sydney.\n\nThe first seven editions of the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" were edited by lexicographer Susan Butler, who joined the project in 1970 as a research assistant, and was its chief editor by the time the first edition was published in 1981. Butler announced her retirement as the \"Macquarie\"'s editor in March 2018 after 48 years with the publisher.\n\nThe original version of the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" was based on Hamlyn's \"Encyclopedic World Dictionary\" of 1971, which in turn was based on Random House's \"American College Dictionary\" of 1947, which was based on the 1927 \"New Century Dictionary\", which was based on \"The Imperial Dictionary of the English Language\", which itself was based on Noah Webster's \"American Dictionary of the English Language\" second edition of 1841.\n\nSince its first publication in 1981, its use has grown so that over time, it has come to rival longer-established dictionaries from elsewhere in the English-speaking world as a standard authority on the English language within Australia.\n\nThe second edition was published in 1991 and it introduced encyclopedic content to many entries.\n\nThe third edition, published in 1997, made use of an inhouse corpus of Australian writing, Ozcorp, to add a large number of examples of Australian usage, to give some of the flavour of an historical dictionary. This edition also gave a good coverage of English in Asia.\n\nThe fourth edition, published in 2005, increases the number of citations, includes etymologies for many phrases and pays particular attention to Australian regionalisms.\n\nThe fifth edition was published on October 2009 and places particular emphasis on words relating to the environment and climate change.\n\nThe sixth edition was published on October 2013 and includes an update of new words and senses as well as words and phrases from other varieties of English which impinge on Australian English such as British English, American English and English in Southeast Asia, China and India.\n\nThe seventh edition of the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" was published on 28 February 2017.\nWith a foreword by Kate Grenville, this latest edition includes thousands of new words and senses along with Australian regionalisms and a collection of words from the Australian experience in WW1.\n\nThe dictionary records standard Australian English spelling, which is closer to British spelling than American spelling, with spellings like \"colour\", \"centre\", \"defence\" and \"practice/practise\" (noun/verb). It gives \"-ise\" spellings first, listing \"-ize\" spellings as acceptable variants, unlike the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and some other dictionaries of British English, which continue to prefer \"-ize\" to \"-ise\" in spite of the opposite tendency amongst the British general public (see Oxford spelling). \"Labour\", however, is sometimes spelt \"labor\", especially in reference to the Australian political party.\n\nOne difference from British usage is the word \"program\" which the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" gives as the preferred spelling.\n\nSee main article on \"Word of the Year\".\n\nA number of smaller versions are available, including a pocket edition, as well as companion volumes such as a thesaurus. The latest edition of the main complete version of the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" is the seventh, published in 2017. The \"Macquarie Australian Slang Dictionary\" published in 2004 is an up-to-date record of Australian slang. A range of dictionaries from the complete to a small dictionary is available as an iOS application.\n\nThe \"Macquarie Dictionary\" Online was initially the digital version of the print fourth edition. From 2013 it is the most complete version of the dictionary with greatest coverage of encyclopedic and non-encyclopedic entries. It offers spoken pronunciations. It is available by subscription.\n\n"}
{"id": "3426219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3426219", "title": "National Museum of the American Indian Act", "text": "National Museum of the American Indian Act\n\nThe National Museum of the American Indian Act (NMAI) was enacted on November 28, 1989, as Public Law 101-185. The law established the National Museum of the American Indian as part of the Smithsonian Institution. The law also required the Secretary of the Smithsonian to prepare an inventory of all Indian and Native Hawaiian human remains and funerary objects in Smithsonian collections, as well as expeditiously return these items upon the request of culturally affiliated federally recognized Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations.\n\nThe NMAI expands the Smithsonian Institution by authorizing erection of a new museum on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. to house Native American artifacts from the Heye Foundation's Museum of the American Indian. As part of a legal compromise regarding the Heye Foundation's New York state charter, the George Gustave Heye Center of the National Museum of the American Indian was also created by the NMAI in the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House in New York City.\n\nThe purpose of the NMAI is threefold:\n\n\nPrior to enactment of the NMAI, representatives of the Native American Rights Fund and the Association for Native American Affairs told Congressional staffers that they would oppose the bill if repatriation provisions were not included. At an August, 1989, meeting in Santa Fe, NM, Secretary of the Smithsonian Robert McCormick Adams, Jr., agreed that the Smithsonian would abide by new repatriation provisions. As a result of the law, the Secretary of the Smithsonian is required to inventory Indian and Native Hawaiian human remains and funerary objects in the possession or control of the Smithsonian Institution and return them upon request by a descendant or culturally affiliated Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization. These items are housed primarily in the National Museum of Natural History, National Museum of the American Indian, and National Museum of American History.\n\nThe Smithsonian had amassed a huge collection of Native American items including:\n\n\nThe 1989 act applied only to the return of Indian and Native Hawaiian human remains and funerary objects. The NMAI was amended in 1996 to include additional categories derived from the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act enacted in 1990, with similar definitions:\n\n\nThe 1996 amendment also established specific deadlines for the Smithsonian to complete its summary and inventory tasks. The National Museum of Natural History posted summaries of its cultural affiliation case reports on its website. By 2007, the remains of 18,568 individuals had been identified. Of these, remains representing 5,435 individuals (29%) had been offered for repatriation to lineal descendants or culturally affiliated Indian tribes or Native Hawaiian organizations. By 1996, the National Museum of the American Indian had identified the remains of 524 individuals in its collection, of which 227 (41%) had already been repatriated.\n\nIn 2011, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completed a study of the extent to which the Smithsonian had fulfilled the repatriation requirements of the NMAI Act. The GAO found that while the Smithsonian had inventoried, identified, and returned thousands of Indian human remains, at the current pace it may take decades more for it to complete the process. The GAO suggested that Congress consider ways to expedite the process including, but not limited to, directing the Smithsonian to make cultural affiliation determinations as efficiently and effectively as possible. The GAO also recommended certain administrative changes to enhance oversight of the process.\n\n\nNotes\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "8214783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8214783", "title": "Panyathai", "text": "Panyathai\n\nPanyathai was a Thai online encyclopedia started on 1 December 2006 with 80 articles, mainly in Thai. Established in honor of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the site plan was to have at least 80,000 articles by 5 December 2007, the king's 80th birthday. It contained some English content, mostly providing information about royal projects.\n\nThe articles came from two different sources:\n\nAll the content was copyrighted, unlike other Web-based encyclopedias. The project claims itself as a wiki and states that users can make changes to the articles, but it had no such functionality at its launch. The website allowed creation of articles and adding comments to the already-created articles. However, registration was required. The website used Drupal as the content management system and MediaWiki for the Wiki part.\n\nThe project was controlled by the Thai Webmaster Association with support from the Ministry of Education and the Thai Health Promotion Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "104981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104981", "title": "Peggy Guggenheim Collection", "text": "Peggy Guggenheim Collection\n\nThe Peggy Guggenheim Collection is a modern art museum on the Grand Canal in the Dorsoduro \"sestiere\" of Venice, Italy. It is one of the most visited attractions in Venice. The collection is housed in the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni, an 18th-century palace, which was the home of the American heiress Peggy Guggenheim for three decades. She began displaying her private collection of modern artworks to the public seasonally in 1951. After her death in 1979, it passed to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, which opened the collection year-round from 1980.\n\nThe collection includes works of prominent Italian futurists and American modernists working in such genres as Cubism, Surrealism and abstract expressionism. It also includes sculptural works. In 2017, Karole Vail, a granddaughter of Peggy Guggenheim, was appointed Director of the collection, succeeding Philip Rylands, who led the museum for 37 years.\n\nThe collection is principally based on the personal art collection of Peggy Guggenheim, a former wife of artist Max Ernst and a niece of the mining magnate, Solomon R. Guggenheim. She collected the artworks mostly between 1938 and 1946, buying works in Europe \"in dizzying succession\" as World War II began, and later in America, where she discovered the talent of Jackson Pollock, among others. The museum \"houses an impressive selection of modern art. Its picturesque setting and well-respected collection attract some 400,000 visitors per year\", making it \"the most-visited site in Venice after the Doge's Palace\". Works on display include those of prominent Italian futurists and American modernists. Pieces in the collection embrace Cubism, Surrealism and abstract expressionism. During Peggy Guggenheim's 30-year residence in Venice, her collection was seen at her home in the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni and at special exhibitions in Amsterdam (1950), Zürich (1951), London (1964), Stockholm (1966), Copenhagen (1966), New York (1969) and Paris (1974).\n\nAmong the artists represented in the collection are, from Italy, De Chirico (\"The Red Tower, The Nostalgia of the Poet\") and Severini (\"Sea Dancer\"); from France, Braque (\"The Clarinet\"), Metzinger (\"Au Vélodrome\"), Gleizes (\"Woman with Animals\"), Duchamp (\"Sad Young Man on a Train\"), Léger (\"Study of a Nude\" and \"Men in the City\" ) Picabia (\"Very Rare Picture on Earth\"); from Spain, Dalí (\"Birth of Liquid Desires\"), Miró (\"Seated Woman II\") and Picasso (\"The Poet, On the Beach\"); from other European countries, Brâncuși (including a sculpture from the \"Bird in Space\" series), Max Ernst (\"The Kiss, Attirement of the Bride\"), Giacometti (\"Woman with Her Throat Cut, Woman Walking\"), Gorky (\"Untitled\"), Kandinsky (\"Landscape with Red Spots, No. 2, White Cross\"), Klee (\"Magic Garden\"), Magritte (\"Empire of Light\") and Mondrian (\"Composition No. 1 with Grey and Red 1938, Composition with Red 1939\"); and from the US, Calder (\"Arc of Petals\") and Pollock (\"The Moon Woman, Alchemy\"). In one room, the museum also exhibits a few paintings by Peggy's daughter Pegeen Vail Guggenheim.\n\nIn addition to the permanent collection, the museum houses 26 works on long-term loan from the Gianni Mattioli Collection, including images of Italian futurism by artists including Boccioni (\"Materia\", \"Dynamism of a Cyclist\"), Carrà (\"Interventionist Demonstration\"), Russolo (\"The Solidity of Fog\") and Severini (\"Blue Dancer\"), as well as works by Balla, Depero, Rosai, Sironi and Soffici. In 2012, the museum received 83 works from the Rudolph and Hannelore Schulhof Collection, which has its own gallery within in the building.\n\nThe collection is housed in the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni, which Peggy Guggenheim purchased in 1949. Although sometimes mistaken for a modern building, it is an 18th-century palace designed by the Venetian architect Lorenzo Boschetti. The building was unfinished, and has an unusually low elevation on the Grand Canal. The museum's website describes it thus:\n\nThe palazzo was Peggy Guggenheim's home for thirty years. In 1951, the palazzo, its garden, now called the Nasher Sculpture Garden, and her art collection were opened to the public from April to October for viewing. Her collection at the palazzo remained open during the summers until her death in Camposampiero, northern Italy, in 1979; she had donated the palazzo and the 300-piece collection to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation in 1976. The foundation, then under the direction of Peter Lawson-Johnston, took control of the palazzo and the collection in 1979 and re-opened the collection there in April 1980 as the Peggy Guggenheim Collection.\n\nAfter the Foundation took control of the building in 1979, it took steps to expand gallery space; by 1985, \"all of the rooms on the main floor had been converted into galleries ... the white Istrian stone facade and the unique canal terrace had been restored\" and a protruding arcade wing, called the barchessa, had been rebuilt by architect Giorgio Bellavitis. Since 1985, the museum has been open year-round. In 1993, apartments adjacent to the museum were converted to a garden annex, a shop and more galleries. In 1995, the Nasher Sculpture Garden was completed, additional exhibition rooms were added, and a café was opened. A few years later, in 1999 and in 2000, the two neighboring properties were acquired. In 2003, a new entrance and booking office opened to cope with the increasing number of visitors, which reached 350,000 in 2007. Since 1993, the museum has doubled in size, from 2,000 to 4,000 square meters.\n\nSince 1985, the United States has selected the foundation to operate the U.S. Pavilion of the Venice Biennale, an exhibition held every other summer. In 1986, the foundation purchased the Palladian-style pavilion, built in 1930.\n\nPhilip Rylands led the museum for 37 years after Peggy Guggenheim's death, until 2017. He was appointed the first Director of the collection in 2000, and in 2017 he became Director Emeritus. In 2017, Peggy Guggenheim's granddaughter, Karole P.B. Vail, succeeded Rylands after having been a curator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York since 1997.\n\nAs of 2012, the collection was the most visited art gallery in Venice and the 11th most visited in Italy.\n\nSince 1992, Peggy Guggenheim's grandson, Sandro Rumney, together with his children and some cousins, have raised several disputes with the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. The disputes concern, in part, the difference in language between Guggenheim's unconditional 1976 deed of gift to the foundation, a 1969 letter, and a 1972 version of her will. The courts have found the deed binding. In 1992, Rumney and two other grandsons, sued the foundation in Paris claiming, among other things, that the modernization of the collection did not comply with the letter and spirit of her wishes. In 1994, the court dismissed the claims and ordered the grandsons to pay the foundation court costs.\n\nFollowing the gift of approximately 80 works to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation by Hannelore and Rudolph Schulhof (a former trustee of the foundation) in 2012, some works collected by Guggenheim were removed from the Palazzo to make room for the display of the new works. The Schulhofs' names were inscribed alongside Guggenheim's at both entrances of the museum. Their son, Michael P. Schulhof, has been a trustee of the Guggenheim foundation since 2009. In 2014, several French descendants of Peggy Guggenheim, led by Rumney, sued the foundation for violating her will and agreements with the foundation, which they said require that her collection \"remain intact and on display\". They also claimed that the resting place of her ashes in the gardens of the Palazzo has been desecrated by the display of sculptures nearby, among other things. The lawsuit requested that the founder's bequest be revoked or that the collections, gravesite and signage be restored. Other descendants of Peggy Guggenheim supported the foundation's position. In 2014, the court dismissed the claims and awarded the foundation legal fees. The court noted that the descendants had attended some of the parties held in the gardens by the foundation. In 2015, the Paris Court of Appeal dismissed the lawsuit and awarded the foundation additional legal fees. Rumney stated his intention to continue to appeal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17456104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17456104", "title": "Reflexstock", "text": "Reflexstock\n\nReflexstock is a stock photography distributor operating out of Northern Ireland. The company provides access to royalty free and rights managed images through their online search engine, which currently harbors a collection of 3 million royalty-free and rights managed images. The company has positioned itself within the online image market by identifying a niche market opportunity and finding new ways to sell images.\n\nSince Reflexstocks entry in the market in 2006, it has achieved significant growth during its first two years of trading. The company is supported by Northern Ireland's regional economic development agency (Invest NI).\n\nReflexstock recently supplied an image to Time Magazine which after a little manipulation appeared on the front cover of the December 17th edition.\n\nThe company’s recent achievements were recognized in a number of recent articles in the Belfast Telegraph and Dwyer O’Neill was interviewed by the BBC Radio Ulster Business News about the stock photography industry.\n\nThe company was founded in 2006 by Irish born Dwyer O’Neill, who had previously been involved with developing the online image portal Creatas back in 2001 until it was sold to Jupitermedia in March 2005.\nDwyer expanded his business portfolio in January 2007 by setting up two sister companies: Not For Zombies, a microstock photography website and pictureresearching.co.uk, a professional picture research service for advertising and publishing companies\n\n"}
{"id": "19895894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19895894", "title": "Reverse dictionary", "text": "Reverse dictionary\n\nA reverse dictionary is a dictionary organized in a non-standard order (usually referring to being in a so-called \"reverse\" order) that provides the user with information that would be difficult to obtain from a traditionally alphabetized dictionary. There are two principal types of reverse dictionaries: reverse \"word\" dictionaries, and reverse \"concept\" dictionaries (conceptual dictionary). This article discusses reverse word dictionaries; see conceptual dictionary for reverse concept dictionaries.\n\nReverse dictionaries were historically difficult to produce before the advent of the electronic computer, but have become more common since 1974, when the first computer sorted reverse dictionary was published: Stahl and Scavnicky's \"A Reverse Dictionary of the Spanish Language\". A form of \"reverse dictionary\" is the \"suffix (word-listing) dictionary\".\n\nThe reverse word dictionary is a dictionary where the word entries in the dictionary are not alphabetized in the same manner as a traditional dictionary. For example, \"A Reverse Dictionary of the Spanish Language\" and \"Walker's Rhyming Dictionary\" are reverse dictionaries, the organization of which is based upon sorting each entry word upon its last letter and the subsequent letters proceeding toward the beginning of that word. Consequently, in these reverse dictionaries all words that have the same suffix appear in order in the dictionary. Such a reverse dictionary would be useful for linguists and poets who might be looking for words ending with a particular suffix, or by an anthropologist or forensics specialist examining a damaged text (e.g. a stone inscription, or a burned document) that had only the final portion of a particular word preserved. Reverse dictionaries of this type have been published for most major alphabetical languages (see numerous examples listed below). By way of contrast, in a standard dictionary words are organized such that words with the same prefix appear in order, since the sorting order is starting with the first letter of the entry word and subsequent letters proceeding toward the end of that word.\n\nApplications of reverse word dictionaries include:\n\nReverse word dictionaries are straightforward to construct, by simply sorting based on reversed words. This was labor-intensive and tedious before the advent of electronic computers, but is now straightforward. For example, using Perl and sort allows the following one-liner program to produce a reverse dictionary of the file \"dict\":\nSome sort utilities can sort on a reversed version of the sort key, making it easy to generate reverse dictionaries on the fly if the dictionary data is available in electronic form.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23530992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23530992", "title": "Robert E. L. Taylor", "text": "Robert E. L. Taylor\n\nRobert E. Lee Taylor, Jr. (June 8, 1913 – July 2, 2009) was an American publisher and chairman of the \"Philadelphia Bulletin\" in the years leading up to the paper's demise. He was jailed in 1963 for his refusal to testify before a grand jury about his paper's reporting, and was released after the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that his actions were protected under the state's shield law.\n\nTaylor was born in Norfolk, Virginia and grew up in Baltimore, Maryland. He attended Princeton University, graduating in 1935. Taylor started work at the \"Philadelphia Bulletin\" after graduating from college — where his uncle Robert McLean was publisher, and owned the paper together with his brothers and sisters — and worked at the paper for nearly 40 years, other than during World War II, when he served in the United States Navy.\n\nAs the paper's president in 1963, he and other staff members at the Bulletin were ordered to testify before a grand jury investigating municipal corruption and demanded details of the sources for the paper's stories. Upon refusing, Taylor and city editor Earl Selby were held in jail for contempt of court. By a 6–1 vote, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania overturned the sentences to five days in jail and a fine of $1,000, ruling that the state's 1937 shield law covered documents and individuals. In his majority opinion, Chief Justice John C. Bell, Jr. stated that in cases where there is a doubt, \"the statute must be liberally construed in favor of the newspaper and the media\".\n\nIn March 1964, McClean stepped down as publisher, having served in that position since 1961, with Taylor succeeding him as publisher and keeping his post as the paper's president. At the time, the Bulletin's daily circulation of 700,000 made it the city's largest and one of the largest of all afternoon papers nationwide. The ascendancy of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" combined with the loss of popularity of afternoon papers led to a significant drop in both advertisers and readership. McLean stepped down as chairman after 61 years at the paper in April 1975, and Taylor was named as his successor as chairman and chief executive officer, with William L. McLean 3rd named editor and publisher to succeed Taylor. In his role as chairman, he oversaw the paper's sale in 1981. The paper ceased publication as of January 29, 1982, after 135 years in business, having dominated its market for most of its life.\n\nTaylor died at age 96 on July 2, 2009, at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. He was survived by two daughters, a son, six grandchildren and one great-grandchild. His two marriages, to Leonore McAlpin Shiland and Jane Matthews Jackson, both ended with the death of his spouse.\n"}
{"id": "35108736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35108736", "title": "Russian Science Citation Index", "text": "Russian Science Citation Index\n\nRussian Science Citation Index (Russian: Российский индекс научного цитирования (РИНЦ)) is a bibliographic database of scientific publications in Russian. It accumulates more than 13 million publications of Russian authors, as well as information about citing these publications from more than 5000 Russian journals. The Russian Science Citation Index has been developed since 2005 by the Scientific Electronic Library eLIBRARY.RU. The information-analytical system Science Index is a search engine of this database; it offers a wide range of services for authors, research institutions and scientific publishers. It is designed not only for operational search for relevant bibliographic information, but is also as a powerful tool to assess the impact and effectiveness of research organizations, scientists, and the level of scientific journals, etc.\n\nFrom 5000 Russian scientific journals only about 500 are presented in foreign databases (i.e. not more than 10%). Those are mainly translated journals. So far, the vast majority of Russian scientific publications remain \"invisible\" and not available online. Russian Science Citation Index makes it real to objectively compare Russian journals with the best international journals and brings them closer to researchers all over the world.\n\nIn Russia, this database is one of the main sources of information for evaluating the effectiveness of organizations involved in research. It allows to appraise: \nthrough the following indicators:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35821689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35821689", "title": "Samuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial", "text": "Samuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial\n\nSamuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial, also known as Church of the Evangelists and St. Martin's College for Indigent Boys, is a set of four buildings with a history that unites idealism or religious beliefs, service to the poor, and art. Formerly an Episcopal church in the working-class Bella Vista neighborhood of South Philadelphia, it is best known as the home of the \"Graphic Sketch Club\" founded by Samuel S. Fleisher, which offers free art lessons to children and adults.\n\nThe four buildings include a campanile built in 1857, a basilica built 1884-1886, St. Martin's College built in 1906, and two rowhouses built in the 1850s.\nSince Fleisher's death in 1944, his trust, which owns the buildings, has been administered by the Philadelphia Museum of Art. The Art Memorial was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982 and is located at 711-721 Catharine St. in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Church of the Evangelists was established as a mission church for the poor of Catherine Street in 1837, by Episcopalians named William Welsh and Horace Binney, among others. A church building was constructed in 1857 which includes the campanile which still stands. The church's viability became a concern by 1880, possibly because of the influx of non-Episcopal immigrants to the neighborhood.\n\nHenry Robert Percival, a well-known high church Episcopal priest, revived the fortunes of the Church of the Evangelists when he was appointed rector about 1880.\nThe well-connected Percival had traveled in Italy and had \"a sensibility which combined Italian and Anglo-Catholic romanticisms.\" He wished to rebuild the church based on the Romanesque models of St. Mark's Basilica in Venice, the Cathedral of Pisa and the Orvieto Cathedral. The 1884 design by the firm Furness and Evans was in actuality based on San Zeno Maggiore in Verona.\n\nFrescos in the church were painted by Robert Henri, Nicola D'Ascenzo, and by local parishioners. Much of the interior decorative work was left unfinished. The influences on the architecture include \"Italy, Ruskin, the ecclesiological movement, and the pageantry of medieval Christianity.\" James van Trump is more critical, stating that \"a rather self-conscious coterie of late nineteenth century Philadelphia haute bourgeoisie, 'engaged', one might say in being 'Catholic', cultivated, and artistic.\"\n\nWhile the church's original Wurlitzer pipe organ has fallen into disrepair, it remains in the sanctuary and is the last such factory-installed organ in Philadelphia in 2018.\n\nAfter Percival retired on account of illness in the 1890s, the church's fortunes declined. St. Martin's College for Indigent Boys was built in 1906, perhaps in an effort to fight the decline and better connect with the non-Episcopalian neighborhood.\n\nSamuel Stewart Fleisher, the son of German Jewish immigrants, became vice-president of the family business after graduating from the Wharton School of Business. By that time the family business, the Fleisher Yarn Company, was a major manufacturer of hand-knitting yarns and worsted fabric. Fleisher was extraordinarily concerned for the welfare of the company's workers, their children, and others who lived in the neighborhood.\n\nFleisher started offering free art classes to children in 1898 in the Jewish Union building at 422 Bainbridge Street. Later known as the Graphic Sketch Club, the institution gave free, non-competitive, collaborative classes to both children and adults without discrimination by race or nationality. In 1906 it moved to a larger building at 740 Catharine Street, then in 1916 it moved across the street to Saint Martin's College for Indigent Boys. The church was purchased and converted into an art gallery in 1922.\n\nIn 1944, Fleisher died and left his estate in trust to the Philadelphia Museum of Art to continue the Graphic Sketch Club, which was renamed the Samuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial. In 1983 it became a formally independent non-profit corporation with a separate board of trustees, but it is still managed by the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nThe Fleisher Memorial continues to offer free and low-cost classes and workshops to both children and adults, in subjects such as drawing, painting, sculpture, ceramics, photography, and dance. Since 1997 they have also offered the \"Community Partnership in the Arts\" program which places artists in public school classrooms in South Philadelphia. Artists teach students for 90-minute classes twice a week for 6–10 weeks. Ceramist Winnie Owens-Hart is among the artists who have worked at the Memorial.\n\nThe gallery contains art by Violet Oakley, tiles by Henry Chapman Mercer, 18th-century Portuguese art, and primitive European art, as well as the religious art from the original church. There are six early stained glass windows made by Lavers, Barraud and Westlake, and one later window, designed by John LaFarge. Entrance to the gallery is free, Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with reduced hours on Saturdays.\n\nPrior to Halloween, La Calaca Flaca and Fleischer organize and present a neighborhood Día de los Muertos Altar Celebration and Procession. The first event took place in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "32493845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32493845", "title": "SeaLifeBase", "text": "SeaLifeBase\n\nSeaLifeBase is a global online database of information about marine life. It aims to provide key information on the taxonomy, distribution and ecology of all marine species in the world apart from finfish. SeaLifeBase is in partnership with the WorldFish Center in Malaysia and the UBC Fisheries Centre at the University of British Columbia. Daniel Pauly is the principal investigator and it is coordinated by Maria Lourdes D. Palomares. , it included descriptions of 74,000 species, 47,700 common names, 12,400 pictures, and references to 31,700 works in the scientific literature. SeaLifeBase complements FishBase, which provides parallel information for finfish.\n\nThe origins of SeaLifeBase go back to the 1970s, when the fisheries scientist Daniel Pauly found himself struggling to test a hypothesis on how the growing ability of fish was affected by the size of their gills. Hypotheses, such as this one, could be tested only if large amounts of empirical data were available. At the time, fisheries management used analytical models which required estimates for fish growth and mortality. Pauly believed that the only practical way fisheries managers could access the volume of data they needed was to assemble all the data available in the published literature into some central repository. This would mean that when a new hypothesis needs to be tested, the available data will already be there in a validated and accessible form, and there will be no need create a new dataset and then have to validate it. Pauly recruited Rainer Froese, and the beginnings of a software database along these lines was encoded in 1988. This database, initially confined to tropical fish, became the prototype for FishBase. FishBase was extended to cover all finfish, and is now the largest online database for fish in the world.\n\nGiven FishBase's success, there was naturally a demand for a database covering forms of aquatic life other than finfish. This resulted, in 2006, in the birth of SeaLifeBase. The long-term goal of the project is develop an information system modelled on FishBase, but including all forms of aquatic life, both marine and freshwater, apart from the finfish which FishBase specialises in. Altogether, there are about are 300,000 known species in this category\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "932203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932203", "title": "Shorter Oxford English Dictionary", "text": "Shorter Oxford English Dictionary\n\nThe Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (SOED) is an English language dictionary published by the Oxford University Press. The SOED is a two-volume abridgement of the twenty-volume \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\"). \n\nThe first editor, William Little, worked on the book from 1902 until his death in 1922. The dictionary was completed by H. W. Fowler, Jessie Coulson, and C. T. Onions. An abridgement of the complete work was contemplated from 1879, when the Oxford University Press took over from the Philological Society on what was then known as \"A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles\". However, no action was taken until 1902, when the work was begun by William Little, a fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He laboured until his death in 1922, at which point he had completed \"A\" to \"T\" and \"V\". The remaining letters were completed by Henry Watson Fowler (\"U\", \"X\", \"Y\", and \"Z\") and Mrs. E. A. Coulson (Jessie Coulson) (\"W\") under the direction of Charles Talbut Onions, who succeeded Little as editor. Onions wrote that \"SOED\" was \"to present in miniature all the features of the principal work\" and to be \"a quintessence of those vast materials\" in the complete OED.\n\nThe first edition was published in February 1933. It was reprinted in March and April of that year and again in 1934.\n\nA Second Edition appeared in 1936 contained about 3,000 revisions and additions and was reprinted in 1939.\n\nA Third Edition was published in the United States under the name \"The Oxford Universal Dictionary\" in 1944 with reprints in 1947, 1950, 1952 and 1955. The 1955 reprint contained an addendum of new entries. The 1973 reprint, which contained an enlarged addenda with over seventy pages and a major revision of all the etymologies.\n\nThe New SOED was prepared under the editorship of Lesley Brown 1980-1993 and was the first complete revision of the dictionary and should be considered a re-abridgement of the SOED and its supplements. The whole text was completely revised for the Fourth Edition, which was published in 1993 as the \"New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary\". The book attempted to include all English words which had substantial currency after 1700, plus the vocabulary of Shakespeare, John Milton, Edmund Spenser and the King James Version. As a historical dictionary, it includes obsolete words if they are used by major authors and earlier meanings where they explain the development of a word. Headwords are traced back to their earliest usage. Includes 97,600 headwords, 25,250 variant spellings, 500,000 definitions, 87,400 illustrative quotations and 7,333 sources of quotations (including 5,519 individual authors).\n\nThe Fifth Edition was published in 2002, and contains more than half a million definitions, with 83,500 illustrative quotations from 7,000 authors. The name Shorter Oxford English Dictionary was used to emphasise the link between this two-volume dictionary and the original twenty-volume OED.\n\nOn 21 September 2007, the Sixth Edition appeared. The dictionary now includes 600,000 words, phrases, and definitions, covering global English-speaking regions and 2500 new words and meanings from Oxford Dictionaries and Oxford English Corpus. As previously, the vocabulary includes entries in general English from 1700 to the present day and in earlier major literary works. The dictionary includes 80,000 quotations illustrating the use of words, thousands of newly discovered antedatings based on the continuing research for the OED, 2,500 new words and senses, thousands of antedatings of existing words from Oxford English Dictionary and Oxford English Corpus, many new quotations from recent authors, and a complete review of spelling forms and defining vocabulary. \n\n16,000 words lost their hyphen. Angus Stevenson, the editor of the Shorter OED, stated the reason: \"People are not confident about using hyphens anymore, they're not really sure what they are for.\" Its researchers reviewed a corpus of 2 billion words (in newspapers, books, web sites and blogs from 2000). Bumble-bee is now bumblebee, ice-cream is ice cream and pot-belly is pot belly.\n\n(The CD-ROM supports Windows 2000 or higher, Mac OS x 10.3.9 (PowerPC) or 10.4 or 10.5 (Intel) or higher).\n\nThe \"Shorter Oxford English Dictionary\" is available on CD-ROM for Windows and Macintosh. Version 3.0 of that CD-ROM is copy-protected using SecuROM.\n\nThe dictionary is also available as an electronic download plug-in for WordWeb for Windows and for Mac OS X.\n\nIn addition to all of the contents of the traditional paper dictionary, the electronic versions include:\n\n"}
{"id": "9267855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9267855", "title": "State Britain", "text": "State Britain\n\nState Britain is an installation artwork by Mark Wallinger displayed in Tate Britain in January 2007. It is a recreation from scratch of a protest display about the treatment of Iraq, set up by Brian Haw outside Parliament and eventually confiscated by the police. Haw's display contained several hundred items donated by members of the public. As well as continuing the protest, Wallinger's recreation in a different context also brings up questions of authenticity. Wallinger won the Turner Prize in 2007 for this piece.\n\n\"State Britain\" is a meticulous recreation of a 40-metre long display which had originally been situated around peace campaigner Brian Haw's protest outside the Houses of Parliament against policies towards Iraq.\n\nThe original display consisted of over 600 items, many donations from the public, including paintings, placards, photos of families, banners, posters, graffiti, traffic cones, tarpaulins, temporary fencing and toys. These included a poster, \"Blair Lies, Kids Die!\", a banner, \"Baby Killers\", photos of babies maimed and burnt in missile attacks, a statement that parliament spent seven hours discussing the war in Iraq and 700 hours discussing fox-hunting, and a white teddy bear holding a sign, \"Bears against bombs\". In the centre is an image of Haw fixed to a wooden cross and wearing a T-shirt that says, \"Bliar\". Also displayed was a Banksy stencil of two soldiers painting a peace sign next to Leon Kuhn's anti-war political caricature \"3 Guilty Men\", both of which, together with Kuhn's \"The Proud Parents\", Mark Wallinger later displayed in his recreation at the Tate in 2007.\n\nThe original display, apart from a three-metre section, was confiscated by the police under the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005, which prohibits unauthorised protests in a specified \"exclusion zone\" around Parliament.\n\nState Britain was meticulously researched and recreated by project lead Michelle Sadgrove (Pilkington) at Mike Smith Studio who sourced 15 artists from varying backgrounds and skillsets to work alongside her over a period of 6 months, exploring participant observation and using hundreds of photographs to match each item to the original protest display. In all, over one thousand five hundred objects were created or sourced for the piece. It cost Tate Britain £90,000 as part of their exhibition programme and was installed inside the Duveen Hall of Tate Britain in January 2007. Signs at all the entrances to the hall warn that the exhibit contains images of extreme human suffering. Michelle has since led teams of technicians installing the work at Mac/Val Paris, Aargauer Kunsthaus, Switzerland, Der Kunstverein Seit 1817 Hamburg, Museum De Pont Tilburg Netherlands and ZKM Karlsruhe Germany.\n\n\"The Sunday Times\" saw the show as more indication that the arts establishment had turned against the Labour government. It contrasted Tate director Sir Nicholas Serota's endorsement of Wallinger's show with the private tour of Tate Modern Serota had given to Prime Minister Tony Blair in 2000. At that time Blair's government had courted Young British Artists such as Tracey Emin and Damien Hirst to help \"modernise\" Britain.\n\n\"State Britain\" was curated in collaboration with Wallinger by Tate curator, Clarrie Wallis. It was on show until 27 August 2007.\n\nWallinger was shortlisted for the Turner Prize on 8 May 2007 for \"State Britain\", and announced the winner on 3 December 2007.\n\nThe Tate press release on the exhibition mentioned that the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005 prohibited \"unauthorised demonstrations within a one kilometre radius of Parliament Square\" and that this radius passed through the Duveen Hall, bisecting Wallinger's exhibit. Wallinger marked this on the floor with a black line running through the Tate. Initial press reports dwelt on the potential dangers of this infringement, speculating that the police might even remove the half of the exhibit on the \"wrong side of the line\". However, Charles Thomson of the Stuckists pointed out the exclusion zone ended at Thorney Street, 300 yards before the Tate. The one kilometre radius is the maximum possible, but not actual, area of the designated zone, which is mapped out by particular streets.\n\nA few days before the opening of the exhibit, Brian Haw said he knew nothing about it, but that \"What we had ... were pieces of art.\" He was invited to view the work while it was being installed and was pleased with the result.\n\nTim Teeman commented that Wallinger created the exhibit not only to bring what he perceives as a dangerous erosion of civil liberties to light, but also to examine whether the installation was art or politics; Teeman concluded that it was obviously both. Waldemar Januszczak commented on \"a cheeky intervention that raises lots of interesting questions,\" but that these were about \"issues of originality and authenticity\", rather than the original political intent of the display. Edward Lucie-Smith called it \"official art\" and considered that Haw, not Wallinger, should receive the credit.\n\n"}
{"id": "34759235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34759235", "title": "Strike notice", "text": "Strike notice\n\nA strike notice (or notice to strike) is a document served by members of a trade union or an analogous body of workers to an employer or negotiator stating an intent to commit an upcoming strike action. The document largely contains:\n\n\nA strike notice is usually issued to an employer or negotiators after union leadership and participating workers have agreed on the set terms of a strike action. In contrast, a wildcat strike action usually involves workers going on strike without the approval of union leadership or the serving of a notice. \n\nStrike notices are often legally required of public sector workers or unions within a specific period (i.e., 10 days before the intended strike action commencement). \n"}
{"id": "3912330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3912330", "title": "The Kite (film)", "text": "The Kite (film)\n\nThe Kite (, – طيّارة من ورق) is a 2003 Lebanese film by the director Randa Chahal Sabag. It tells the story of a fifteen-year-old Lebanese girl, from a Druze community, who is forced to marry her cousin across the Israeli border, but finds herself in love with an Israeli soldier. \"Le Cerf-volant\" was Sabag's most commercially and critically successful movie, and her last; she died in 2008. The film was Lebanon's official submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 76th Academy Awards. Although it never received a theatrical release in the United States, the film was released to DVD in 2009 by First Run Features. \n\nThe Kite is set in a village called Deir Mimas over the border of the pre-occupied territories in southern Lebanon (occupied by Israel). The 16-year-old Lebanese girl Lamia (Flavia Bechara) lives with her family in the village. Her family had promised to marry her off to her cousin Samy (Edmond Haddad), who lives on the Israeli side. Lamia's mother, Amira (Randa Asmar) was dejected and unwilling to send her daughter away because that meant that Lamia could never come back because of the tense political situation at the border.\n\nLamia, too, is completely reluctant to agree to the marriage because she has never seen him nor does she love him. She is simply a naïve young teenager who has no idea about marriage. Similarly, Samy was not much interested in marrying his cousin either; however, he agreed to the marriage because he thought it would help Lamia escape her village.\n\nTo conduct the wedding, since there is a no-man's land between the Lebanon side and Israel side, they communicate with each other through megaphones and can only see each other through binoculars. Before the marriage, Lamia had to get a pass from the authorities to cross the border. The day of the wedding, the entire village gathers at the border gates to witness Lamia being sent across the border. On the Israeli side, people wave a white flag as a signal to start. Lamia hugs her family and starts her long walk towards the Israeli border in her majestic wedding gown and a lone bouquet. She keeps looking back, knowing that she may never return.\n\nMeanwhile, the movie reveals that an Israeli soldier, Youssef (Maher Bsaibes), stationed at the border is in love with Lamia. After Lamia comes to live in Samy's house, she barely eats or sleeps or talks; this goes on for 20 days. Later, during an argument with her husband, Lamia tells him that she loves someone else, who turns out to be Youssef. Samy's family gets frustrated with Lamia and takes her to the border so that she can talk to her mother. Lamia is given binoculars, but instead of looking at her mother, she turns to look at Youssef and exchanges smiles with him. Both families fume at this and her binoculars are taken away.\n\nBecause of her continuous unpleasant behavior, Lamia becomes unwanted in Samy's house and she is forced to go back. Samy warns Lamia that no one else would want her anymore if he divorces her and she would be alone forever. Lamia faces a great dilemma because she does not want to be with her husband but she does not want to go back either (because of Youssef).\n\nUnfortunately, Lamia returns to Deir Mimas, to her and the soldier's utter disappointment. She becomes a subject of insult in her home village, which is seen when a shop-owner does not accept money from her, calling it \"money of dishonor\".\n\nThe ending of the movie has been purposely left vague and open to interpretation. It appears like a dream or surreal scene where Lamia magically crosses the fence of the border and finally gets to be with Youssef.\n\n\"The Kite\" was Sabag's biggest commercial and critical success, with generally positive reviews. Nitrate Online described it as a story of \"life and love in the middle of conflict\" with a \"refreshingly original appeal that crosses some formidable barriers\", while Strictly Film School called it a \"poignant, humorous, and exquisitely realized\" film. Less than a year after Sabag's death, when the film was out on DVD, Michael Atkinson described it on IFC.com as a \"tragicomedy\" and \"absurdist\" film, and wrote that the director's tone was \"gentle and generous\", except for a single scene involving the discovery of an aborted fetus which he described as \"tasteless\". Atkinson added that Sabag considered the points of view of each character in the film, even that of the Israeli officers.\n\nWhen Sabag won the Silver Lion, the Beirut-based \"Daily Star\" called the occasion \"a triumph for Lebanese film\". The World Press Review described this kind of reception as \"a radical departure from the hostile press the controversial filmmaker (Sabag) once received\".\n\nCineuropa said that despite the subject of the story being tragic, Sabag tried to deal with it using irony and managed to \"triumph life, love and imagination\" at the end. Both male and female critics on the French film blog \"L'Oil sur L'Ecran\" gave it 4 out of 5 stars, with one of them noting that the film was reminiscent of Elia Suleiman's 2002 film \"Divine Intervention\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24686166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24686166", "title": "The QI Book of the Dead", "text": "The QI Book of the Dead\n\nThe QI Book of the Dead (sold as \"The Book of the Dead\" in the United States) is the fourth title in a series of books based on the intellectual British panel game \"QI\", written by series-creator John Lloyd and head-researcher John Mitchinson. It is a book of \"quite interesting\" obituaries.\n\n\"The QI Book of the Dead\" was first published by Faber and Faber in hardback on 5 November 2009. The idea of the book originated before the television series \"QI\" was broadcast. Mitchinson wrote in an article for the \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper that, \"It first appeared on one of our \"how to make life more interesting\" lists at a time when Stephen Fry's erudite put-downs and the anteater impressions of Alan Davies weren't even gleams in Lloyd's eye.\"\n\nThe book is divided into 10 chapters, covering 68 different people. However, instead of dividing the chapters into subjects normally found in such books, like \"Royalty\", \"Scientists\" and \"Sportsmen\", \"The QI Book of the Dead\" uses \"more diverting categories\". Examples include \"There's Nothing Like a Bad Start in Life\", covering people who had bad childhoods; \"Man Cannot Live by Bread Alone\", about people with unusual diets; and \"Is That All There Is?\" about people interested in life after death.\n\nIan Wolf for the British Comedy Guide was mostly positive with his review, saying: \"\"The QI Book of the Dead\" is definitely an enjoyable read, and makes for a great gift idea. For one thing, it allows us to look back and learn on the mistakes of our ancestors. Amongst those ancestors are Confucius and Nefertiti, whom everyone in the world is related to... interesting, isn't it!\"\n\nHowever, Wolf also wrote that the book made mistakes. He wrote that the book wrongly claimed that Lord Shelburne was Prime Minister, when in fact he was First Lord of the Treasury, with the title of \"Prime Minister\" not being used to describe the leader of the British government until a century after Shelburne died by Henry Campbell-Bannerman.\n\nThe people covered in \"The QI Book of the Dead\" are as follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "55793125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55793125", "title": "TickX", "text": "TickX\n\nTickX is an events and tickets search engine, comparing events in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Spain and The Netherlands .\n\nWhile studying at the University of Manchester, co-founder Steve Pearce wanted to create a single destination for event goers to discover events. Pearce pitched the idea to family friend and future co-founder Sam Coley, a software developer.\n\nIn 2015, TickX received backing from Ministry of Sound, with Pearce and Coley earning nominations as one of Virgin's \"Four young entrepreneurs to watch in 2016\". In the second half of 2017, TickX expanded to the Republic of Ireland and Spain.\n\nIn July, 2017, TickX unveiled the world's first event Chatbot via Facebook Messenger. \n"}
{"id": "38101835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38101835", "title": "Tile Heritage Foundation", "text": "Tile Heritage Foundation\n\nThe Tile Heritage Foundation is an archival library and resource center dedicated to the preservation of ceramic surfacing materials in the United States. It is located in Healdsburg, California. Open to the public by appointment. It was founded in 1987 by Joseph Taylor and Sheila Menzies. The archives catalog information about historic and contemporary tile makers in the United States, and maintains a collection of over 4,000 historic and contemporary tiles, all of them donated. The Foundation is a member supported non-profit organization. Sponsorship, grants, gifts and membership as well as contemporary tile sales support the ongoing work of education, publishing and archiving. They have published works on the history of tile in the US.\n"}
{"id": "38887586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38887586", "title": "Vogue Encyclo", "text": "Vogue Encyclo\n\nVogue Encyclo is a fashion encyclopedia, founded by Vogue Italia (Condé Nast Digital).\n\n"}
{"id": "1582581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582581", "title": "Whitaker's Almanack", "text": "Whitaker's Almanack\n\nWhitaker's is a reference book, published annually in the United Kingdom. The book was originally published by J Whitaker & Sons from 1868 to 1997, then by The Stationery Office until 2003, and then by A & C Black which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Bloomsbury Publishing in 2011. The 150th edition of \"Whitaker's\" was published on 16 November 2017.\n\nJoseph Whitaker began preparing his Almanack in the autumn of 1868. He postponed publication of the first edition on learning of the resignation of Benjamin Disraeli on 1 December 1868, so that he could include details of the new Gladstone administration. At the same time, Whitaker continued to expand the information so that the initially planned 329 pages grew to 370. The first edition of the Almanack appeared on 23 December 1868, priced at 1 shilling, introduced by a short editorial piece written by Joseph Whitaker. It began \"The Editor does not put forward this Almanack as perfect: yet he ventures to think that he has succeeded in preparing a work which will commend itself to those who desire to see improvement in this direction.\" It concluded by inviting critics to suggest ways in which improvements could be made. The \"Manchester Guardian\", reviewing the first edition, described it as \"the largest of the cheap almanacks\" to appear, and noted it contained a great deal more valuable information than other such works. In 2013, the 2014 edition became the first to be published under the new simpler branding of \"Whitaker's\".\n\n\"Whitaker's Almanack\" consists of articles, lists and tables on a wide range of subjects including education, the peerage, government departments, health and social issues, and the environment.\n\nThe largest section is the countries directory, which includes recent history, politics, economic information and culture overviews. Each edition also features a selection of critical essays focusing on events of the previous year. Extensive astronomical data covering the forthcoming year is published at the rear of the book.\n\n\"Whitaker's Almanack\" is not an encyclopaedia but more of a yearbook of contemporary matters and a directory of various establishments in the UK (such as clubs, public bodies and universities).\n\nWhitaker's was prized enough that Winston Churchill took a personal interest in the continued publication of the book after its headquarters were destroyed in The Blitz; a copy is also sealed in Cleopatra's Needle on the north bank of the River Thames.\n\nEach year the \"Almanack\" is published in two formats – the Standard Edition and a shortened Concise Edition. In previous years, a larger-format of the Standard Edition, bound in leather, was produced for libraries. Both editions were redesigned in 1993 and 2004 to increase the page size and improve legibility.\n\nThe \"Almanack\"'s current Executive Editor is Ruth Northey, whilst former editor Hilary Marsden continues to contribute.\n\nThere have been nine editors since 1868:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36780452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36780452", "title": "Wulfsen horse burial", "text": "Wulfsen horse burial\n\nThe Wulfsen horse burial is an early medieval horse burial, consisting of three horses, that was discovered in 1974 in a Saxon grave field in the village of Wulfsen, in the German district of Harburg. The find was rescued as a varnish profile, which is on display in the permanent exhibition of the Archaeological Museum Hamburg in Harburg, Hamburg.\n\nThe archaeological site was located on the northeastern escarpment of a sand pit near Wulfsen. In summer of 1974 a fossil collector observed a discoloration of the soil, which he considered of archaeological interest. He reported his observation to the Museum of the Principality of Lüneburg, which forwarded the message to the Helms-Museum in Hamburg-Harburg being the archaeological authority for the region. An excavation was conducted on the already disturbed burial site, which unearthed 35 human burials and the horse burial, containing the three horses. Due to the sandy soil, preservation of the burials was relatively poor. In total 26 older burials, oriented in north-south direction and nine younger burials oriented in east-west direction were excavated. Except for two arrowheads in a young person's grave, no other grave goods were observed.\n\nThe three horses were buried in a steep-walled pit of by . The bodies of the animals were fully decomposed, only bones and teeth remaining, but the bones were very brittle and fragile. Offerings or grave goods such as bridles were not detected. All the horses were lying on their left side, orientated in south–north direction. Their heads were placed in an upright posture on an elevated part of the pit. The middle horse was lying with its abdomen in a ventral position. The legs of the middle and eastern animal were sharply flexed. The legs of the western horse were lying in a half-extended position; it occupied about half of the pit's space. By use of a working platform, the bones were carefully exposed and soaked with cold glue, the pit was then laminated with lacquer and crêpe paper. The single bones were further secured with wires and pins. Then the pit was filled with a construction foam, secured in a wooden crate and recovered as a block. The entire object consists of a prepared sand layer of about to millimeters thickness with the embedded bone. The poor preservation of the bones complicated zoological investigations. The western horse was likely a mare, the others stallions. Their withers has been between and , which is relatively small compared to today's standards, but was average for those days. The ages of the animals have been determined between five and seven years.\n\nBased on evidence such as mortuary practice, the geographical orientation of remains and their grave goods, the burial was dated to 700–800 AD. The younger burials especially are dated to a period shortly before the wide Christianization of the region, which resulted in fundamental changes of burial practices. The horse burial could not be clearly assigned to one of the warrior's graves, therefore it is unclear whether was an individual burial of the animals or it was an addition to one of the human interments. Funerals of animals, especially of individual horses are well known from many grave fields of the Early Middle Ages. Similar burial sites have been found in Suffolk, England. Triple horse burials, for example, were discovered near Griefstedt (Sömmerda (district)) in Thuringia and Beckum (Warendorf (district)) in North Rhine-Westphalia, but for north-eastern Lower-Saxony it is unprecedented.\n\nA LEGO miniature of the excavation of Wulfsen horse burial was built in 2013 for the special exhibition \"LEGO Zeitreise\" (LEGO time travel) of Archäologische Museum Hamburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "21358560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358560", "title": "Władysław Szafer Institute of Botany", "text": "Władysław Szafer Institute of Botany\n\nThe Władysław Szafer Institute of Botany (Instytut Botaniki im. Władysława Szafera, Polish) in Kraków, Poland is a major European herbarium containing a collection of over 650,000 vascular plants, bryophytes, algae, fungi, lichens, and various plant fossils. The vascular plant specimens are primarily from Central Europe with a specialization in alpine plants. The bryophytes are Polish, Antarctic and subAntarctic, and East African. The fossil plants are largely Central European. Main publications include \"Acta Palaeobotanica\", and the \"Polish Botanical Journal\".\n\nThe herbarium was established in the 1950s by professor of botany and paleobotany, Władysław Szafer, at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków.\n\nWeb address:\n"}
