{"id": "14964738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14964738", "title": "Advaita Ashrama", "text": "Advaita Ashrama\n\nAdvaita Ashrama, Mayavati, is a branch of the Ramakrishna Math, founded on 19 March 1899 at the behest of Vivekananda, by his disciples James Henry Sevier, and Charlotte Sevier. Today it is publishes the original writings of Vivekananda. As an ashram dedicated to the study and practice of Advaita Vedanta, no images or idols are worshipped there, not even of Ramakrishna; and no images were kept in the premises according to the Ashram ideals set by Vivekananda.\n\nAlso referred as the Mayawati Ashram, it is located at an altitude of 1940 meters, 22 km from Champawat in Champawat district, Uttarakhand, and 9 km from the town of Lohaghat. The ashram is a major publication centre of the Ramakrishna Order for books in English and Hindi, mainly through its branch in Kolkata. It also maintains a charitable hospital at Mayavati. Among its important publications are \"The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda\" in English and as well as a Hindi translation, \"The Life of Swami Vivekananda\", and English translations of important Hindu scriptures.\n\nSome of the old manuscripts of the ashram have now been microfilmed and preserved at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) in Delhi.\n\nThe Advaita Ashram has its origins in 1896, when Vivekananda was travelling through the Alps recuperating, and expressed the desire to have a similar place in India, for retreat and study of Vedas.\n\nEarlier, in 1895, James Henry Sevier who had served as a captain in the British Indian Army for five years, and his wife Charlotte Elizabeth Sevier, met Vivekananda in England. Later in 1896, for nearly nine months, they travelled with him through Switzerland, Germany, and Italy. It was in the Alps that Vivekananda, while travelling with the couple that he expressed his desire to have a similar retreat for the monks in the Himalayas. In December 1896, the couple moved to India, with Vivekananda on board a steamer from Naples, Italy, with an objective to find a place near Almora, and set up an Ashram, and arriving at Madras in February 1897. Soon just as Vivekananda left for Calcutta, the couple left for Almora, where they rented a bungalow and this became the residence of Vivekananda and the Seviers for next two years.\nLater when he left for Kashmir, the Sevier couple along with Swami Swarupananda, a monastic disciple of Vivekananda, started travelling to the interior area looking a suitable place, which was eventually found in July 1898, set amidst dense deodar, pine and oak forests; the land which was until then a tea estate was promptly purchased, and decided upon for the new Ashram. Finally, with the help of Swami Swarupananda, the Ashram was set up, along with a small dwelling for the monks, ashramites and the couple themselves, around the same time as the Belur Math was being established near Kolkata, when they moved in on 19 March 1899, which happened to be the birth anniversary of Ramakrishna (Hindu calendar) that year.\n\nAfter the sudden death of its first editor, 24-year-old B. R. Rajam Iyer at Chennai, the publication of the English Journal \"Prabuddha Bharata\" was discontinued for a few months in May 1898. Meanwhile, in Almora, Vivekananda asked the Sevier couple to revive the magazine, and the editorship was given to Swami Swarupananda, who not only became the first head of the Ashram upon its opening on 19 March 1899, but also remained its editor, at its new base hence forth; and the held the position until his death in 1906.\n\nUpon its foundation, Vivekananda sent the following letter, in March 1899, entailing the prospectus of the Ashram:\n\n\"...To give this One Truth a freer and fuller scope in elevating the lives of individuals and leavening the mass of mankind, we start this Advaita Ashrama on the Himalayan heights, the land of its first expiration.\n\nHere it is hoped to keep Advaita free from all superstitions and weakening contaminations. Here will be taught and practised nothing but the Doctrine of Unity, pure and simple; and though in entire sympathy with all other systems, this Ashrama is dedicated to Advaita and Advaita alone.\"\n\nJames Sevier died on 28 October 1900, and was cremated by the nearby Sarada River, according to Hindu traditions as he had wished. Vivekananda visited the Ashram from 3–18 January 1901, primarily to console her, and his place of residence has now been turned into a library. Charlotte Sevier continued to stay at the Ashram for several years.\n\nAdvaita Ashrama publishes many important books in English and Hindi, as well as the English Journal \"Prabuddha Bharata\" which is being published since July 1896, making it the oldest running Journal by Ramakrishna Mission. A list of its most well-known other publications is as follows.\n\n\nThe first three presidents of Advaita Ashrama were also editors of the \"Prabuddha Bharata\". Thereafter, the post of President and Editor were held by different persons. From 1959, the Ashrama President was also called the Editor of \"Prabuddha Bharata\", and the actual editor called the \"joint editor\". From September 1993, the Ashrama President is known as the Managing Editor, and the Editor is known as the Editor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "802070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802070", "title": "Apostolic administrator", "text": "Apostolic administrator\n\nAn apostolic administrator in the Catholic Church is a prelate appointed by the Pope to serve as the ordinary for an apostolic administration. An apostolic administration can either be an area that is not yet a diocese (a stable 'pre-diocesan', usually missionary apostolic administration) or for a diocese, eparchy or similar permanent ordinariate (such a territorial prelature or a territorial abbacy) that either has no bishop (an apostolic administrator \"sede vacante\", as after an episcopal death or resignation) or, in very rare cases, has an incapacitated bishop (apostolic administrator \"sede plena\").\n\nApostolic administrators of stable administrations are equivalent in canon law with diocesan bishops, meaning they have essentially the same authority as a diocesan bishop. This type of apostolic administrator is usually the bishop of a titular see.\n\nAdministrators \"sede vacante\" or \"sede plena\" only serve in their role until a newly chosen diocesan bishop takes possession of the diocese. They are restricted by canon law in what they can do to the diocese they temporarily administer. For example, such an administrator may not sell real estate owned by the diocese. This type of administrator is commonly an auxiliary bishop of the diocese, a priest serving as the vicar general of the diocese, or the ordinary of a neighboring diocese.\n\nNormally when a diocese falls vacant, either the previously appointed Coadjutor bishop takes possession of the see or (lacking such successor) a vicar capitular/diocesan administrator is chosen locally, but the Pope, having full governmental power, can preempt this choice and name an apostolic administrator instead. Sometimes a retiring, promoted or transferred (arch)bishop is designated to be apostolic administrator until his successor is designated and takes office, sometimes the Metropolitan or a fellow suffragan is appointed.\n\nIn May 2015, there were the following stable apostolic administrations, most administered by a (titular or external) bishop.\n\nMost are of the Roman rite; most are in former or current communist countries.\n\nSome apostolic administrations have jurisdiction not only over Latin Rite Catholics, but also over Catholics of other rites, not having their own jurisdictions there:\n\nThe Diocese of Pyongyang, North Korea: its last official bishop, Francis Hong Yong-ho, was imprisoned by the communist regime of Kim Il-sung in 1949 and later disappeared. The Metropolitan Archbishop of Seoul (South Korea) acts as the Apostolic Administrator in Pyongyang, as religion is suppressed in North Korea.\n\nIn addition, the Personal Apostolic Administration of Saint John Mary Vianney is a non-territorial jurisdiction, similar to a personal prelature, which is exempt, i.e. immediately subject to the Holy See, not part of any ecclesiastical province. It is a separate particular church for traditionalist Catholics within the Brazilian Diocese of Campos, a suffragan of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Niterói.\n\nThe personal apostolic administration was formed by Pope John Paul II to administer to a group of traditionalist Catholic priests, using the Tridentine Mass, who reconciled with Rome on January 18, 2002. The group had been formed by bishop Antônio de Castro Mayer and had been associated with the Society of St. Pius X of Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre.\n\nIt has become not unusual that the Pope appoints an Apostolic Administrator to a diocese which is sede vacante, thus replacing the diocesan administrator. Usually, the emeritus bishop will be appointed in such a case. Recently (and in exception to the latter), the archdiocese St. Andrews and Edinburgh had Philip Tartaglia under this procedure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17834310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17834310", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in the United Arab Emirates began before the country gained independence in 1971. The first Bahá'ís arrived in Dubai by 1950, and by 1957 there were four Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in the region of the United Arab Emirates and a regional National Spiritual Assembly of the Arabian Peninsula. Recent estimates count some 75,000 Bahá'ís or 1.6% of the national population - second only to Iran in number of Bahá'ís in the nations of the Middle East - though the World Christian Encyclopedia estimates closer to 51,700, 1.3%, in 2005.\n\nBy 1950 Bahá'ís had arrived in Dubai, and by 1957 there were Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Ras Al Khaymah, and Sharjah, and a regional Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the Arabian Peninsula. This regional national assembly was re-organized for the Southern and Eastern Arabia in 1967, and of South East Arabia in 1974.\n\nIn the 1980s, many anti-Bahá'í polemics were published in local newspapers of the UAE.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. However the current situation of the Bahá'ís in the UAE, while being better than the situation of the Bahá'ís in Iran, (see Persecution of Bahá'ís) is mixed. Many consider the Bahá'ís kafir (infidels), and they lack many basic rights.\n\nCensus figures count Bahá'ís as Muslim and since many Bahá'ís had passports that identify them as Muslims, the Ministry of Education required Bahá'í children to take the prescribed Islamic studies classes. However, 15 percent of the UAE are not Muslim, Christian, or Jewish. Unofficial sources noted by the U.S. Department of State assert that one-third of these are collectively Bahá'í, Parsi, or Sikh. These estimates differ from census figures because census figures do not count \"temporary\" visitors and workers, and Bahá'ís are counted as Muslim. By some other estimates there were 55,000 Bahá'ís (1.95% of the national population) as of 2000, and 75,000 Bahá'ís or 1.6% circa 2008 - second only to Iran in the number of Bahá'ís in the nations of the Middle East though the World Christian Encyclopedia estimated 51,700 in 2005.\n\nRecently, Bahá'ís have been generally able to practise their religion in the country; in 1999 a touring group of youth, a \"Bahá'í Workshop\" (see Oscar DeGruy), with members from many countries including the UAE had performed in India and other places. In February 2001 a group of Bahá'ís travelled to the UAE from Iran to attend a Ruhi Institute Bahá'í study circle, and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi donated land for a Bahá'í cemetery (and other cemetery lands for other religions.)\n\nHowever, as of 2005, the country's long-term Internet service provider at the time, Etisalat, \nblocked some of the most visible websites related to the Bahá'í Faith. The blocking did not extend to most material concerning the Bahá'í Faith on the internet however.\n\n"}
{"id": "34921634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34921634", "title": "Bijoy Krishna Goswami", "text": "Bijoy Krishna Goswami\n\nBijoy Krishna Goswami () (2 August 1841 – 1899) was a prominent Hindu social reformer and religious figure in India during the British period. \n\n"}
{"id": "42442388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42442388", "title": "Brahma from Mirpur-Khas", "text": "Brahma from Mirpur-Khas\n\nThe Brahma from Mirpur Khas is a famous bronze image of the Brahma made in Sindh, in modern Pakistan, dated to the 5th or 6th century, during the Gupta period. It is the earliest known metallic image of Lord Brahma and the only known representative if the school it represents. It has been described as \"an immense artistic creation\" of the Gupta period.\n\nIt was found in a field near Mirpur-Khas as first reported by Henry Cousens in 1929. Some report it as having been found at Brahmanabad.\n\nThe four-headed Brahma bronze statue has a height over 3 feet. Lord Brahma is shown standing with two hands, wearing a dhoti and a yajnopavita but without any ornaments.Vasudeva Sharana Agrawala calls it \"an exceptionally good specimen of the art of metal-casting in this period\". Śrīrāma and Śaṅkara Goyala term is \"true memorial of Gupta metalsmith's artistic genius\". It is said to the best example of Gupta art in Sindh.\n\nThe object suggests that Sindh was a major center of metalworking.\n\nIt used to be at the Karachi Museum, but it is reported that it is no longer there.\n\nBrahma from Mirpur Khas has been widely used by art historians for comparison with other artwork of historical significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3244886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3244886", "title": "Cake of Light", "text": "Cake of Light\n\nCake of Light is the eucharistic host found within Thelema, the religion founded by author and occultist Aleister Crowley in 1904. It contains honey, oil, and particular bodily fluids, and is usually cooked in the shape of a small, flat wafer. It appears by name in two important Thelemic rituals: the Gnostic Mass and the Mass of the Phoenix. However, Crowley thought it was important for magicians to perform a eucharistic ritual of some kind daily (from \"Magick Book 4, Liber ABA\", ch. 20): \nA Eucharist of some sort should most assuredly be consummated daily by every magician, and he should regard it as the main sustenance of his magical life. It is of more importance than any other magical ceremony, because it is a complete circle. The whole of the force expended is completely re-absorbed; yet the virtue is that vast gain represented by the abyss between Man and God.\n\nThe magician becomes filled with God, fed upon God, intoxicated with God. Little by little his body will become purified by the internal lustration of God; day by day his mortal frame, shedding its earthly elements, will become in very truth the Temple of the Holy Ghost. Day by day matter is replaced by Spirit, the human by the divine; ultimately the change will be complete; God manifest in flesh will be his name.\n\nThe overall significance of the cakes is that it is considered to be a eucharist, a symbolic union between the microcosm, Man, and the macrocosm, the Divine; and the consumption of which completes a sacred circle, affirming an intimate connection between the two, which strengthens with each sacrament.\n\nThe Cakes of Light, traditionally composed of meal, honey, leavings of red wine lees, oil of Abramelin, olive oil and fresh blood as per the instructions in \"The Book of the Law\" is a perfume or incense when raw but also a cake when baked (\"burned\")\n\nOlive oil is considered a sacred oil by many cultures and religions of the world. It is also an ingredient in the making of Oil of Abramelin, and the olive noted by Aleister Crowley himself as \"traditionally, the gift of Minerva, the Wisdom of God, the Logos.\n\nAbramelin Oil was considered by Crowley to be representative of the \"whole Tree of Life. The ten Sephiroth are blended into the perfect gold.\" Abramelin Oil is thus also a symbol of the Philosopher's Stone of the Alchemists.\n\nCakes of Light are never mentioned by name in \"The Book of the Law\", however many people interpret the following passages as being instructions for their creation (from III:23-25):\n\nSome commentators have interpreted this to mean that the \"blood\" component mentioned in the second portion of this quote may be formed from menstrual blood or semen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85143", "title": "Catillus", "text": "Catillus\n\nThere are two Catilli in Roman legend:\n\n\nCatillus the Arcadian and his sons Catillus, Coras, and Tiburtus escaped the mass killing at Thebes and arrived at the Aniene Plateau. They drove away the Sicilians who lived there and founded a city named Tibur (now Tivoli) in honor of Tiburtus.\n\nIn Book VII of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the twin brothers, Catillus and Coras, leave Tibur and head for Latium to fight against Aeneas and the Trojans as an ally of Turnus.\n"}
{"id": "2646111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646111", "title": "Criticism of Christianity", "text": "Criticism of Christianity\n\nCriticism of Christianity has a long history stretching back to the initial formation of the religion during the Roman Empire. Critics have attacked Christian beliefs and teachings as well as Christian actions, from the Crusades to modern terrorism. The intellectual arguments against Christianity include the suppositions that it is a faith of violence, corruption, superstition, polytheism, and bigotry.\n\nIn the early years of Christianity, the Neoplatonic philosopher Porphyry emerged as one of the major critics with his book \"Against the Christians\". Porphyry argued that Christianity was based on false prophecies that had not yet materialized. Following the adoption of Christianity under the Roman Empire, dissenting religious voices were gradually suppressed by both governments and ecclesiastical authorities. A millennium later, the Protestant Reformation led to a fundamental split in European Christianity and rekindled critical voices about the Christian faith, both internally and externally. With the Scientific Revolution and the Age of Enlightenment, Christianity experienced additional attacks from major thinkers and philosophers, such as Voltaire, David Hume, Thomas Paine, and the Baron d'Holbach. The central theme of these critiques sought to negate the historical accuracy of the Christian Bible and focused on the perceived corruption of Christian religious authorities. Other thinkers, like Immanuel Kant, launched the first systematic and comprehensive assaults against Christian theology by attempting to refute arguments for theism.\n\nIn modern times, Christianity has faced substantial criticism from a wide array of political movements and ideologies. In the late eighteenth century, the French Revolution saw a number of politicians and philosophers criticizing traditional Christian doctrines, precipitating a wave of secularism in which hundreds of churches were closed down and thousands of priests were deported. Following the French Revolution, prominent philosophers of liberalism and communism, such as John Stuart Mill and Karl Marx, criticized Christian doctrine on the grounds that it was conservative and anti-democratic.Friedrich Nietzsche wrote that Christianity fostered a kind of slave morality that suppressed the desires contained in the human will. The Russian Revolution, the Chinese Revolution, and several other modern revolutionary movements have also led to the criticism of Christian ideas.\n\nThe formal response of Christians to such criticisms is described as Christian apologetics. Philosophers like Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas have been some of the most prominent defenders of the Christian religion since its foundation.\n\nBiblical criticism, in particular higher criticism, covers a variety of methods used since the Enlightenment in the early 18th century as scholars began to apply to biblical documents the same methods and perspectives which had already been applied to other literary and philosophical texts. It is an umbrella term covering various techniques used mainly by mainline and liberal Christian theologians to study the meaning of biblical passages. It uses general historical principles, and is based primarily on reason rather than revelation or faith. There are four primary types of biblical criticism:\n\n\nWithin the abundance of biblical manuscripts exist a number of textual variants. The vast majority of these textual variants are the inconsequential misspelling of words, word order variations and the mistranscription of abbreviations. Text critics such as Bart D. Ehrman have proposed that some of these textual variants and interpolations were theologically motivated. Ehrman's conclusions and textual variant choices have been challenged by some conservative evangelical reviewers, including Daniel B. Wallace, Craig Blomberg, and Thomas Howe.\n\nIn attempting to determine the original text of the New Testament books, some modern textual critics have identified sections as probably not original. In modern translations of the Bible, the results of textual criticism have led to certain verses being left out or marked as not original. These possible later additions include the following:\n\n\nIn \"The Text Of The New Testament\", Kurt and Barbara Aland compare the total number of variant-free verses, and the number of variants per page (excluding orthographic errors), among the seven major editions of the Greek NT (Tischendorf, Westcott-Hort, von Soden, Vogels, Merk, Bover and Nestle-Aland) concluding 62.9%, or 4999/7947, agreement. They concluded, \"Thus in nearly two-thirds of the New Testament text, the seven editions of the Greek New Testament which we have reviewed are in complete accord, with no differences other than in orthographical details (e.g., the spelling of names, etc.). Verses in which any one of the seven editions differs by a single word are not counted. This result is quite amazing, demonstrating a far greater agreement among the Greek texts of the New Testament during the past century than textual scholars would have suspected… In the Gospels, Acts, and Revelation the agreement is less, while in the letters it is much greater.\"\n\nWith the discovery of the Hebrew Bible texts among the Dead Sea Scrolls, questions have been raised about the textual accuracy of the Masoretic text. That is, whether the Masoretic text which forms the basis of the Protestant Old Testament, or other translations such as the Septuagint, Syriac Peshitta, and Samaritan Pentateuch are more accurate.\n\nInconsistencies have been pointed out by critics and skeptics, presenting as difficulties the different numbers and names for the same feature and different sequences for what is supposed to be the same event. Responses to these criticisms include the modern documentary hypothesis, two-source hypothesis (in various guises), and assertions that the Pastoral Epistles are pseudonymous. Contrasting with these critical stances are positions supported by traditionalists, considering the texts to be consistent, with the Torah written by a single source, but the Gospels by four independent witnesses, and all of the Pauline Epistles, except possibly the Hebrews, as having been written by Paul the Apostle.\n\nWhile consideration of the context is necessary when studying the Bible, some find the accounts of the Resurrection of Jesus within the four Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, difficult to reconcile. E. P. Sanders concludes that the inconsistencies make the possibility of a deliberate fraud unlikely: \"A plot to foster belief in the Resurrection would probably have resulted in a more consistent story. Instead, there seems to have been a competition: 'I saw him,' 'So did I,' 'The women saw him first,' 'No, I did; they didn't see him at all,' and so on.\"\n\nHarold Lindsell points out that it is a \"gross distortion\" to state that people who believe in biblical inerrancy suppose every statement made in the Bible is true (opposed to accurate). He indicates there are expressly false statements in the Bible which are reported accurately (for example, Satan is a liar whose lies are accurately reported as to what he actually said). Proponents of biblical inerrancy generally do not teach that the Bible was dictated directly by God, but that God used the \"distinctive personalities and literary styles of the writers\" of scripture and that God's inspiration guided them to flawlessly project his message through their own language and personality.\n\nThose who believe in the inspiration of scripture teach that it is infallible (or inerrant), that is, free from error in the truths it expresses by its character as the word of God. However, the scope of what this encompasses is disputed, as the term includes 'faith and practice' positions, with some denominations holding that the historical or scientific details, which may be irrelevant to matters of faith and Christian practice, may contain errors. Other scholars take stronger views, but for a few verses these positions require more exegetical work, leading to dispute (compare the serious debate over the related issue of \"perspicuity\", attracting biblical and philosophical discussion).\n\nInfallibility refers to the original texts of the Bible, and all mainstream scholars acknowledge the potential for human error in transmission and translation; yet, through use textual criticism modern (critical) copies are considered to \"faithfully represent the original\", and our understanding of the original language sufficiently well for accurate translation. The opposing view is that there is too much corruption, or translation too difficult, to agree with modern texts.\n\nHundreds of years before the time of Jesus, Jewish prophets promised that a messiah would come. Judaism claims that Jesus did not fulfill these prophecies. Other skeptics usually claim that the prophecies are either vague or unfulfilled, or that the Old Testament writings influenced the composition of New Testament narratives. Christian apologists claim that Jesus fulfilled these prophecies, which they argue are nearly impossible to fulfill by chance. Many Christians anticipate the Second Coming of Jesus, when he will fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy, such as the Last Judgment, the general resurrection, establishment of the Kingdom of God, and the Messianic Age (see the article on Preterism for contrasting Christian views).\n\nThe New Testament traces Jesus' line to that of David; however, according to Stephen L. Harris:\n\nChristian preachers counter this argument by stating that these prophecies will be fulfilled by Jesus in the Millennial Reign after the Great Tribulation, according to New Testament prophecies, especially in the Book of Revelation.\n\nThe 16th-century Jewish theologian Isaac ben Abraham, who lived in Trakai, Lithuania, penned a work called \"Chizzuk Emunah\" (\"Faith Strengthened\") that attempted to refute the ideas that Jesus was the Messiah prophesied in the Old Testament and that Christianity was the \"New Covenant\" of God. He systematically identified a number of inconsistencies in the New Testament, contradictions between the New Testament and the Old Testament, and Old Testament prophesies which remained unfulfilled in Jesus' lifetime. In addition, he questioned a number of Christian practices, such as Sunday Sabbath. Written originally for Jews to persuade them not to convert to Christianity, the work was eventually read by Christians. While the well-known Christian Hebraist Johann Christoph Wagenseil attempted an elaborate refutation of Abraham's arguments, Wagenseil's Latin translation of it only increased interest in the work and inspired later Christian freethinkers. \"Chizzuk Emunah\" was praised as a masterpiece by Voltaire.\n\nOn the other hand, Blaise Pascal believed that \"[t]he prophecies are the strongest proof of Jesus Christ\". He wrote that Jesus was foretold, and that the prophecies came from a succession of people over a span of four thousand years. Apologist Josh McDowell defends the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy as supporting Christianity, arguing that prophecies fulfilled by Christ include ones relating to his ancestral line, birthplace, virgin birth, miracles, manner of death, and resurrection. He says that even the timing of the Messiah in years and in relation to events is predicted, and that the Jewish Talmud (not accepting Jesus as the Messiah, see also Rejection of Jesus) laments that the Messiah had not appeared despite the scepter being taken away from Judah.\n\nAnother example is Nazarene in : \"And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.\" The website for Jews for Judaism claims that \"Since a Nazarene is a resident of the city of Nazareth and this city did not exist during the time period of the Jewish Bible, it is impossible to find this quotation in the Hebrew Scriptures. It was fabricated.\" However, one common suggestion is that the New Testament verse is based on a passage relating to \"Nazirites\", either because this was a misunderstanding common at the time, or through deliberate re-reading of the term by the early Christians. Another suggestion is \"that Matthew was playing on the similarity of the Hebrew word \"nezer\" (translated 'Branch' or 'shoot' in and ) with the Greek \"nazoraios,\" here translated 'Nazarene.'\" Christians also suggest that by using an indirect quotation and the plural term prophets, \"Matthew was only saying that by living in Nazareth, Jesus was fulfilling the many Old Testament prophecies that He would be despised and rejected.\" The background for this is illustrated by Philip's initial response in to the idea that Jesus might be the Messiah: \"Nazareth! Can anything good come from there?\"\n\nA fundamental principle of the Christian faith is that Jesus was born of Mary, a virgin. Both Matthew and Luke trace the genealogy of Joseph back to David. According to Jewish tradition, the Messiah must be a descendant of David, but if Jesus was born of a virgin, he cannot be a descendant of David through Joseph. Michael Martin asserts that Mary's virginity is a later addition to Christianity as indicated through Paul's letters. Further, Martin notes that early Christian communities did not seem to have widely believed in the virgin birth. The confusion surrounding the virginity of Mary may result from Septuagint translation of both \"young girl\" and , \"virgin\" into , which usually means virgin. Relying on this translation, Matthew tried to show that Jesus's virgin birth was foretold in Isaiah 7:14-- which refers to an \"almah\" in Hebrew. \n\nCritics argue that the selective invocation of portions of the Old Testament is hypocritical, particularly when those portions endorse hostility towards women and homosexuals, when other portions are considered obsolete. The entire Mosaic Law is described in as a tutor which is no longer necessary, according to some interpretations, see also Antinomianism in the New Testament.\n\nOn the other hand, many of the Old Testament laws are seen as specifically abrogated by the New Testament, such as circumcision, though this may simply be a parallel to Jewish Noahide Laws. See also Split of early Christianity and Judaism. On the other hand, other passages are pro-Law, such as Romans 3:31: \"Do we then make void the law through faith? Certainly not! On the contrary, we establish the law.\" See also Pauline passages opposing antinomianism.\n\nTranslation has given rise to a number of issues, as the original languages are often quite different in grammar as well as word meaning. While the Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy states that inerrancy applies only to the original languages, some believers trust their own translation to be the accurate one. One such group of believers is known as the King-James-Only Movement. For readability, clarity, or other reasons, translators may choose different wording or sentence structure, and some translations may choose to paraphrase passages. Because some of the words in the original language have ambiguous or difficult to translate meanings, debates over the correct interpretation occur.\n\nCriticisms are also sometimes raised because of inconsistencies arising between different English translations of the Hebrew or Greek text. Some Christian interpretations are criticized for reflecting specific doctrinal bias or a variant reading between the Masoretic Hebrew and Septuagint Greek manuscripts often quoted in the New Testament.\n\nCertain interpretations of some moral decisions in the Bible are considered ethically questionable by many modern groups. Some of the passages most commonly criticized include colonialism, the subjugation of women, religious intolerance, condemnation of homosexuality, and support for the institution of slavery in both Old and New Testaments.\n\nChristianity and colonialism are often closely associated because Catholicism and Protestantism were the religions of the European colonial powers and acted in many ways as the \"religious arm\" of those powers. Initially, Christian missionaries were portrayed as \"visible saints, exemplars of ideal piety in a sea of persistent savagery\". However, by the time the colonial era drew to a close in the last half of the twentieth century, missionaries became viewed as “ideological shock troops for colonial invasion whose zealotry blinded them.”\n\nChristianity is targeted by critics of colonialism because the tenets of the religion were used to justify the actions of the colonists. For example, Michael Wood asserts that the indigenous peoples were not considered to be human beings and that the colonisers were shaped by \"centuries of Ethnocentrism, and Christian monotheism, which espoused one truth, one time and version of reality.\"\n\nEarly Christian perspectives of slavery were formed in the contexts of Christianity's roots in Judaism, and as part of the wider culture of the Roman Empire. Both the Old and New Testaments recognize that the institution of slavery existed.\n\nSaint Paul the Apostle in addressing slavery in Ephesians 6:-8 neither condemns slavery nor condones it. Nothing in the passage affirms slavery as a naturally valid or divinely mandated institution. Rather, Paul’s discussion of the duties of Christian slaves and the responsibilities of Christian masters transforms the institution, even if it falls short of calling for outright abolition. St. Augustine thought slavery was a result of sin, but was part of the fallen world and so should be tolerated. However, others opposed it: John Chrysostom explicitly argued that slavery itself was a sin, but he did not advocate for its abolition; Origen called for the practice of manumission after six years as found in the Old Testament; others, such as Gregory of Nyssa, Acacius of Amida, and St. Patrick, called for the complete abolition of slavery. On the other hand, others claim that Orthodox Christianity justified slavery on the ground that it was part of the divinely ordained hierarchical order. Not only there are passages in the Bible enjoining slaves to be submissive (Paul to Ephessians: \"\"slaves, obey your masters with fear and trembling, in singleness of heart, as you obey Christ; not only while being watched, and in order to please them, but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart.\" and to Collosians \"Slaves, obey your earthly masters [kyrioi] according to the flesh in everything, not only while being watched and in order to please them, but wholeheartedly, fearing the Lord [kyrios]\") but more to that, St. John Chrysostom wrote \"The slave should be resigned to his lot, in obeying his master he is obeying God\" while St. Augustine wrote: \"...slavery is now penal in character and planned by that law which commands the preservation of the natural order and forbids disturbance\". \n\nAccording to one view, today and from a human rights perspective, it is difficult to understand why early Christians did not object to the social institution of slavery. It is uncertain whether one can go so far as to criticise Early Christians, including Paul and other authors of Biblical texts, for their active or passive acceptance of slavery. \n\nAccording to Jennifer Glancy, sexual exploitation of slaves in Roman Empire, was helped by Christian morality. Jesus urged his followers to act like slaves, implementing a slave morality. The early Christian theologians were unconcerned about slave morals.\n\nIn the Eastern Roman Empire (Byzantine), a shift in the view of slavery is noticed, which by the 10th century transformed gradually a slave-object into a slave-subject.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, the Christian understanding of slavery has been subjected to significant internal conflict and has endured dramatic change. Nearly all Christian leaders before the late 17th century recognised slavery, within specific biblical limitations, as consistent with Christian theology. The key verse used to justify slavery was Genesis 9:25-27: \"Cursed be Canaan! The lowest of slaves will he be to his brothers. He also said, 'Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem! May Canaan be the slave of Shem.\" which was interpreted to mean that Africans were the descendants of Ham, cursed with \"the mark of Ham\" to be servants to the descendants of Japheth (Europeans) and Shem (Asians). In 1452, Pope Nicholas V instituted the hereditary slavery of captured Muslims and pagans, regarding all non-Christians as \"enemies of Christ.\"\n\nThe \"Curse of Ham\" along with Paul's Epistle to the Ephesians, VI, 5-7 helped American slaveowners to balance their beliefs with slavery. There are plenty other pro-slavery verses in the Old Testament that were often quoted. New Testament was ignored except that reminding that Jesus never condemned slavery and the \"Epistle to Philemon\" in which a runnaway slave was returned to his owner. \nRodney Stark makes the argument in \"For the Glory of God: How Monotheism Led to Reformations, Science, Witch-Hunts, and the End of Slavery\", that Christianity helped to end slavery worldwide, as does Lamin Sanneh in \"Abolitionists Abroad\". These authors point out that Christians who viewed slavery as wrong on the basis of their religious convictions spearheaded abolitionism, and many of the early campaigners for the abolition of slavery were driven by their Christian faith and a desire to realize their view that all people are equal under God. In the late 17th century, anabaptists began to criticize slavery. Criticisms from the Society of Friends, Mennonites, and the Amish followed suit. Prominent among these Christian abolitionists were William Wilberforce, and John Woolman. Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote her famous book, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", according to her Christian beliefs in 1852. Earlier, in Britain and America, Quakers were active in abolitionism. A group of Quakers founded the first English abolitionist organization, and a Quaker petition brought the issue before government that same year. The Quakers continued to be influential throughout the lifetime of the movement, in many ways leading the way for the campaign. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, was instrumental in starting abolitionism as a popular movement.\n\nMany modern Christians are united in the condemnation of slavery as wrong and contrary to God's will. Only peripheral groups such as the Ku Klux Klan and other so-called Christian hate groups on the racist fringes of the Christian Reconstructionist and Christian Identity movements advocate the reinstitution of slavery. Full adherents to reconstructionism are few and marginalized among conservative Christians. With these exceptions, all Christian faith groups now condemn slavery, and see the practice as incompatible with basic Christian principles.\n\nIn addition to aiding abolitionism, many Christians made further efforts toward establishing racial equality, contributing to the Civil Rights Movement. \"The African American Review\" notes the important role Christian revivalism in the black church played in the Civil Rights Movement. Martin Luther King, Jr., an ordained Baptist minister, was a leader of the American Civil Rights Movement and president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, a Christian Civil Rights organization.\n\nMany feminists have accused notions such as a male God, male prophets, and the man-centered stories in the Bible of contributing to a patriarchy. Though many women disciples and servants are recorded in the Pauline epistles, there have been occasions in which women have been denigrated and forced into a second-class status. For example, women were told to keep silent in the churches for \"it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church\". Suffragist Elizabeth Cady Stanton said in \"The Woman's Bible\" that \"the Bible in its teachings degrades women from Genesis to Revelation\".\n\nElizabeth Clark cites early Christian writings by authors such as Tertullian, Augustine, and John Chrysostom as being exemplary of the negative view of women that has been perpetuated in church tradition. Until the latter part of the 20th century, only the names of very few women who contributed to the formation of Christianity in its earliest years were widely known: Mary, the mother of Jesus; Mary Magdalene, disciple of Jesus and the first witness to the resurrection; and Mary and Martha, the sisters who offered him hospitality in Bethany.\n\nHarvard scholar Karen King writes that more of the many women who contributed to the formation of Christianity in its earliest years are becoming known. Further, she concludes that for centuries in Western Christianity, Mary Magdalene has been wrongly identified as the adulteress and repentant prostitute presented in —a connection supposed by tradition but nowhere claimed in the New Testament. According to King, the Gospel of Mary shows that she was an influential figure, a prominent disciple and leader of one wing of the early Christian movement that promoted women's leadership.\n\nKing claims that every sect within early Christianity which had advocated women's prominence in ancient Christianity was eventually declared heretical, and evidence of women's early leadership roles was erased or suppressed.\n\nClassicist Evelyn Stagg and New Testament scholar Frank Stagg in their jointly authored book, \"Woman in the World of Jesus,\" document very unfavorable attitudes toward women that prevailed in the world into which Jesus came. They assert that there is no recorded instance where Jesus disgraces, belittles, reproaches, or stereotypes a woman. They interpret the recorded treatment and attitude Jesus showed to women as evidence that the Founder of Christianity treated women with great dignity and respect. Various theologians have concluded that the canonical examples of the manner of Jesus are instructive for inferring his attitudes toward women. They are seen as showing repeatedly and consistently how he liberated and affirmed women. However, argues that Jesus' reply to his mother in during the wedding at Cana amounted to a blatant violation of the commandment to honor one's parent. \n\nMany critics of Christianity have cited the violent acts of Christian nations as a reason to denounce the religion. Science-fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke said that he could not forgive religions for the atrocities and wars over time. Richard Dawkins makes a similar case in his book, \"The God Delusion\". In the counterargument book \"The Dawkins Delusion?,\" Alister McGrath responds to Dawkins by suggesting that, far from endorsing \"out-group hostility\", Jesus commanded an ethic of \"out-group affirmation\". McGrath agrees that it is necessary to critique religion, but says that Dawkins seems unaware that it possesses internal means of reform and renewal. While Christians may certainly be accused of failing to live up to Jesus' standard of acceptance, it is there at the heart of the Christian ethic.\nPeace, compassion and forgiveness of wrongs done by others are key elements of Christian teaching. However, Christians have struggled since the days of the Church fathers with the question of when the use of force is justified. Such debates have led to concepts such as just war theory. Throughout history, biblical passages have been used to justify the use of force against heretics, sinners and external enemies. Heitman and Hagan identify the Inquisitions, Crusades, wars of religion and antisemitism as being \"among the most notorious examples of Christian violence\". To this list, J. Denny Weaver adds, \"warrior popes, support for capital punishment, corporal punishment under the guise of 'spare the rod and spoil the child', justifications of slavery, world-wide colonialism in the name of conversion to Christianity, the systemic violence of women subjected to men\". Weaver employs a broader definition of violence that extends the meaning of the word to cover \"harm or damage\", not just physical violence per se. Thus, under his definition, Christian violence includes \"forms of systemic violence such as poverty, racism, and sexism\".\n\nAlthough some Christians have relied on Christian teaching to justify their use of force, other Christians have opposed the use of force and violence. Some of the latter have formed sects that have emphasized pacificism as a central tenet of their faith. Christians have also engaged in violence against those that they classify as heretics and non-believers. In \"Letter to a Christian Nation\", critic of religion Sam Harris writes that \"...faith inspires violence in at least two ways. First, people often kill other human beings because they believe that the creator of the universe wants them to do it... Second, far greater numbers of people fall into conflict with one another because they define their moral community on the basis of their religious affiliation...\"\n\nChristian theologians point to a strong doctrinal and historical imperative within Christianity against violence, particularly Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, which taught nonviolence and love of enemies. Weaver says that Jesus' pacifism was \"preserved in the justifiable war doctrine that declares all war as sin even when declaring it occasionally a necessary evil, and in the prohibition of fighting by monastics and clergy as well as in a persistent tradition of Christian pacifism\". Others point out sayings and acts of Jesus that do not fit this description: the absence of any censure of the soldier who asks Jesus to heal his servant, his overturning the tables and chasing the moneychangers from the temple with a rope in his hand, and through his Apostles, baptising a Roman Centurion who is never asked to first give up arms.\n\nHistorically, prohibitions on fighting by monastics and clerics have often been discarded; the notion of military monasticism, emerged in the 12th century, in large part because of the advocacy of St. Bernard of Clairvaux. Bernard - and, once the papacy gave sanction to the idea, the entire Catholic Church - believed that existing Christian methods of serving the Church's ends in war were inadequate, and that a group of dedicated warrior monks could achieve spiritual merit by waging war, rather than despite it. In this view, war against heretics justified means of waging war that fell outside the bounds of just war; for example, the Teutonic Order, which received papal sanction, made frequent use of massacre and the use of violence to compel conversion during the Baltic Crusades. \n\nDuring the 19th century an interpretive model of the relationship between religion and science known today as the conflict theory developed, according to which interaction between religion and science almost inevitably leads to hostility and conflict. A popular example was the misconception that people from the Middle Ages believed that the Earth was flat, and that only science, freed from religious dogma, had shown that it was spherical. This thesis was a popular historiographical approach during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but most contemporary historians of science now reject it.\n\nThe notion of a war between science and religion remained common in the historiography of science during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Most of today's historians of science consider that the conflict thesis has been superseded by subsequent historical research. The framing of the relationship between Christianity and science as being predominantly one of conflict is still prevalent in popular culture.\n\nThe astronomer Carl Sagan, mentioned the dispute between the astronomical systems of Ptolemy (who thought that the sun and planets revolved around the earth) and Copernicus (who thought the earth and planets revolved around the sun). He states in \"\" that Ptolemy's belief was \"supported by the church through the Dark Ages… [It] effectively prevented the advance of astronomy for 1,500 years.\" Ted Peters in \"Encyclopedia of Religion\" writes that although there is some truth in this story, it has been exaggerated and has become \"a modern myth perpetuated by those wishing to see warfare between science and religion who were allegedly persecuted by an atavistic and dogma-bound ecclesiastical authority\". In 1992, the Catholic Church's seeming vindication of Galileo attracted much comment in the media.\n\nThe philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche was a notable critic of the ethics of Christianity. See Philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche#Christianity and morality.\n\nThe ethics in the bible have been criticized, such as the commands in the old testament by God to commit genocide, and to spare no people. The existence of evil has been argued as evidence of no omnipotent omnibenevolent being, however skeptical theism suggests that humans do not have the understanding of the big picture to make an adequate assessment. However, a counter argument by Stephen Maitzen suggests that the ethical inconsistency in the bible that is not followed by most Christians or Jews today, such as the execution of homosexuals, blasphemers, disobedient children, or the punishment for mixing linen and cloth, ultimately undermines the skeptical theism argument. Christian ethics have also been criticized for breeding intolerance (such as anti-semitic views), and for having a repressive nature. Criticism has also been aimed at the core of Christian ethics, the threat of hell.\n\nSome leftists and libertarians, including Christians who disavow the Religious Right, use the term \"Christian fascism\" or \"Christofascism\" to describe what some see as an emerging neoconservative proto-fascism or Evangelical nationalism and possible theocratic sentiment in the United States.\n\nReverend Rich Lang of the Trinity United Methodist Church of Seattle gave a sermon titled \"George Bush and the Rise of Christian Fascism\", in which he said, \"I want to flesh out the ideology of the Christian Fascism that Bush articulates. It is a form of Christianity that is the mirror opposite of what Jesus embodied.\"\n\nConservative Christians are often accused of being intolerant by secular humanists and liberal Christians, claiming that they oppose science that seems to contradict scripture (Creationism, use of birth control, abortion, research into embryonic stem cells, etc.), liberal democracy (separation of church and state), and progressive social policies (rights of people of other races and religions, of women, and of people with different sexual orientations).\n\nGallup polling shows that within the US, trust in organized religion has declined since the 1970s. Phil Zuckerman, a sociology professor, argues that political campaigning against same-sex marriage in churches “is turning off so many people from Christianity,” and responsible for a decline in the number of Christians in the United States.\n\nDavid Kinnaman, president of the Barna Institute, and Gabe Lyons of the Fermi Project published a study of attitudes of 16- to 29-year-old Americans towards Christianity. They found that about 38% of all those who were not regular churchgoers had negative impressions of Christianity, and especially evangelical Christianity, associating it with conservative political activism, hypocrisy, anti-homosexuality, authoritarianism, and judgmentalism. About 17% had \"very bad\" perceptions of Christianity.\n\nThere are three major viewpoints within modern Christianity over the role of women. They are known respectively as Christian feminism, Christian egalitarianism and complementarianism.\n\n\nSome Christians argue that the idea of God as a man is based less on gender but rather on the dominant Patriarchal society of the time in which men acted as leaders and caretakers of the Family. Thus, the idea of God being \"The Father\" is with regards to his relationship with what are \"his children\", Christians.\n\nMost mainline Christians claim that the doctrine of the Trinity implies that God should be called Father and not called Mother, in the same way that Jesus was a man and was not a woman. Jesus tells His followers to address God as Father. He tells his disciples to be merciful as their heavenly Father is merciful. He says the Father will give the Holy Spirit to those who ask and that the Spirit of their Father will speak through them in times of persecution. On Easter Sunday, he directs Mary Magdalene to tell the other disciples, \"I am going to my Father and your Father...\" Mark Brumley points out that behind New Testament language of Divine Adoption and regeneration is the idea that God is our Father because He is the \"source\" or \"origin\" of our new life in Christ. He has saved us through Christ and sanctified us in the Spirit. Brumley claims this is clearly more than a metaphor; the analogy with earthly fatherhood is obvious. God is not merely like a father for Christ’s followers; he is really their Father. Among Christians who hold to this idea, there is a distinct sense that Jesus' treatment of women should imply equality in leadership and marital roles every bit as strongly as the definite male gender of Jesus should imply a name of Father for God. Rather than as antifeminist, they characterize alternative naming as unnecessary and unsupported by the words found in the Bible.\n\nIn 2000, the Southern Baptist Convention voted to revise its \"Baptist Faith and Message\" (Statement of Faith), opposing women as pastors. While this decision is not binding and would not prevent women from serving as pastors, the revision itself has been criticized by some from within the convention. In the same document, the Southern Baptist Convention took a strong position of the subordinating view of woman in marriage: \"A wife is to submit herself \"graciously\" to the servant leadership of her husband. She has the God-given responsibility to respect her husband and to serve as his helper in managing the household and nurturing the next generation.\" (Emphasis added)\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church does not allow female clergy. The Chaldean Catholic Church on the other hand continues to maintain a large number of deaconesses serving alongside male deacons during mass.\n\nIn some evangelical churches, it is forbidden for women to become pastors, deacons or church elders. In support of such prohibitions, the verse is often cited:\n\nPhilosopher David Hume argued against the plausibility of miracles:\n\n<poem>\n1) A miracle is a violation of the known laws of nature;\n2) We know these laws through repeated and constant experience;\n3) The testimony of those who report miracles contradicts the operation of known scientific laws;\n4) Consequently no one can rationally believe in miracles.\n</poem>\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church and the Greek Orthodox Church reject Hume's argument against miracles outright with the teachings of St. Gregory Palamas, who postulated that Reason alone was not sufficient to understand God's energies (activities such as miracles) and essence, but faith was. Of course, when no one would hear anything classified as Christianity but for the communications of other human beings, the question of just where faith has been placed arises. \n\nMiraculous healings through prayers, often involving the \"laying on of hands\", have been reported. However, reliance on faith healing alone can indirectly contribute to serious harm and even death.\nChristian apologists including C.S. Lewis, Norman Geisler and William Lane Craig have argued that miracles are reasonable and plausible.\n\nCelsus found it hard to reconcile Christian human God who was born and matured with his Jewish God who was supposed to be one and unchanging. He asked \"if God wanted to reform humanity, why did he choose to descend and live on earth? How his brief presence in Jerusalem could benefit all the millions of people who lived elsewhere in the world or who had lived and died before his incarnation?\"\n\nOne classical response is Lewis's trilemma, a syllogism popularised by C. S. Lewis that intended to demonstrate the logical inconsistency of both holding Jesus of Nazareth to be a \"great moral teacher\" while also denying his divinity. The logical soundness of this trilemma has been widely questioned.\n\nChristianity has been criticized as seeking to persuade people into accepting its authority through simple fear of punishment or, conversely, through hope of reward after death, rather than through rational argumentation or empirical evidence. Traditional Christian doctrine dictates that, without faith in Jesus Christ or in the Christian faith in general, one is subject to eternal punishment in Hell.\n\nCritics regard the eternal punishment of those who fail to adopt Christian faith as morally objectionable, and consider it an abhorrent picture of the nature of the world. On a similar theme objections are made against the perceived injustice of punishing a person for all eternity for a temporal crime. Some Christians agree (see Annihilationism and Trinitarian Universalism). These beliefs have been considered especially repugnant when the claimed omnipotent God makes, or allows a person to come into existence, with a nature that desires that which God finds objectionable.\n\nIn the Abrahamic religions, Hell has traditionally been regarded as a punishment for wrongdoing or sin in this life, as a manifestation of divine justice. As in the problem of evil, some apologists argue that the torments of Hell are attributable not to a defect in God's benevolence, but in human free will. Although a benevolent God would prefer to see everyone saved, he would also allow humans to control their own destinies. This view opens the possibility of seeing Hell not as retributive punishment, but rather as an option that God allows, so that people who do not wish to be with God are not forced to be. C. S. Lewis most famously proposed this view in his book \"The Great Divorce\", saying: \"There are only two kinds of people in the end: those who say to God, 'Thy will be done,' and those to whom God says, in the end, 'Thy will be done.'\"\n\nHell is not seen as strictly a matter of retributive justice even by the more traditionalist churches. For example, the Eastern Orthodox see it as a condition brought about by, and the natural consequence of, free rejection of God's love.\nThe Roman Catholic Church teaches that hell is a place of punishment brought about by a person's self exclusion from communion with God. In some ancient Eastern Orthodox traditions, Hell and Heaven are distinguished not spatially, but by the relation of a person to God's love.\n\nSome modern critics of the doctrine of Hell (such as Marilyn McCord Adams) claim that, even if Hell is seen as a choice rather than as punishment, it would be unreasonable for God to give such flawed and ignorant creatures as humans the awesome responsibility of their eternal destinies. Jonathan Kvanvig, in his book, \"The Problem of Hell\", agrees that God would not allow one to be eternally damned by a decision made under the wrong circumstances. For instance, one should not always honor the choices of human beings, even when they are full adults, if, for instance, the choice is made while depressed or careless. On Kvanvig's view, God will abandon no person until they have made a settled, final decision, under favorable circumstances, to reject God, but God will respect a choice made under the right circumstances. Once a person finally and competently chooses to reject God, out of respect for the person's autonomy, God allows them to be annihilated.\n\nChristian have sometimes been accused of idolatry, especially in regards in the iconoclastic controversy. However, Orthodox and Roman Catholic Christian forbid worship of icons and relics as divine in themselves, while honouring those represented by them is accepted and philosophically justified by the Second Council of Constantinople.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church teaches that baptism is a necessity. In the 5th century, St. Augustine concluded that infants who die without baptism were consigned to hell. By the 13th century, theologians referred to the \"limbo of infants\" as a place where unbaptized babies were deprived of the vision of God, but did not suffer because they did not know of that which they were deprived, and moreover enjoyed perfect natural happiness. The 1983 Code of Canon Law (1183 §2) specifies that \"Children whose parents had intended to have them baptized but who died before baptism, may be allowed church funeral rites by the local ordinary\". In 2007, the 30-member International Theological Commission revisited the concept of limbo. However, the commission also said that hopefulness was not the same as certainty about the destiny of such infants. Rather, as stated in the Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1257, \"God has bound salvation to the sacrament of Baptism, but he himself is not bound by his sacraments.\" Hope in the mercy of God is not the same as certainty through the sacraments, but it is not without result, as demonstrated in Jesus' statement to the thief on the cross in Luke 23:42-43.\n\nThe concept of limbo is not accepted by the Orthodox Church or by Protestants.\n\nThe idea of atonement for sin is criticized by Richard Dawkins on the grounds that the image of God as requiring the suffering and death of Jesus to effect reconciliation with humankind is immoral. The view is summarized by Dawkins: \"if God wanted to forgive our sins, why not just forgive them? Who is God trying to impress?\" Oxford theologian Alister McGrath maintains that Dawkins is \"ignorant\" of Christian theology, and therefore unable to engage religion and faith intelligently. He goes on to say that the atonement was necessary because of our flawed human nature, which made it impossible for us to save ourselves, and that it expresses God's love for us by removing the sin that stands in the way of our reconciliation with God. Responding to the criticism that he is \"ignorant\" of theology, Dawkins asks, \"Do you have to read up on leprechology before disbelieving in leprechauns?\" and \"[y]es, I have, of course, met this point before. It sounds superficially fair. But it presupposes that there is something in Christian theology to be ignorant about. The entire thrust of my position is that Christian theology is a non-subject.\" Dinesh D'Souza says that Dawkins' criticism \"only makes sense if you assume Christians made the whole thing up.\" He goes on to say that Christians view it as a beautiful sacrifice, and that \"through the extremity of Golgotha, Christ reconciles divine justice and divine mercy.\" Andrew Wilson argues that Dawkins misses the point of the atonement, which has nothing to do with masochism, but is based on the concepts of holiness, sin and grace.\n\nRobert Green Ingersoll suggests that the concept of the atonement is simply an extension of the Mosaic tradition of blood sacrifice and \"is the enemy of morality\". The death of Jesus Christ represents the blood sacrifice to end all blood sacrifices; the resulting mechanism of atonement by proxy through that final sacrifice has appeal as a more convenient and much less costly approach to redemption than repeated animal sacrifice—a common sense solution to the problem of reinterpreting ancient religious approaches based on sacrifice.\n\nThe prominent Christian apologist Josh McDowell, in \"More Than A Carpenter\", addresses the issue through an analogy of a real-life judge in California who was forced to fine his daughter $100 for speeding, but then came down, took off his robe, and paid the fine for her from his billfold, though as in this and other cases, illustrations are only cautiously intended to describe certain aspects of the atonement.\n\nSeveral verses in the New Testament contain Jesus' predictions that the Second Coming would take place within a century following his death. Jesus appears to promise for his followers the second coming to happen before the generation he is preaching to vanishes. This is seen as an essential failure in the teachings of Christ by many critics such as Bertrand Russell.\n\nHowever, Preterists argue that Jesus did not mean his second coming but speaks about demonstrations of his might, formulating this as \"coming in his kingdom\", especially the destruction of the Jerusalem Temple 70 AD, which he foretold, and by which time not all of his disciples were still living. According to this view should be understood in the same way.\n\nMost Christian traditions teach belief in life after death as a central and indispensable tenet of their faith. Critics argue that the Christian conception of the afterlife is inconsistent with that described in the Old Testament. George E. Mendenhall believes there is no concept of immortality or life after death in the Old Testament. The presumption is that the deceased are inert, lifeless, and engaging in no activity.\n\nThe idea of Sheol (\"שׁאול\") or a state of nothingness was shared among Babylonian and Israelite beliefs. \"Sheol, as it was called by the ancient Israelites, is the land of no return, lying below the cosmic ocean, to which all, the mighty and the weak, travel in the ghostly form they assume after death, known as Raphraim. There the dead have no experience of either joy or pain, perceiving no light, feeling no movement.\" Obayashi alludes that the Israelites were satisfied with such a shadowy realm of afterlife because they were more deeply concerned with survival.\n\nBefore Christianity began in the 1st century, the belief in an afterlife was already prevalent in Jewish thinking among the Pharisees and Essenes. The themes of unity and sheol which largely shaped the ancient tradition of Judaism had been undermined when only the most pious of Jews were being massacred during the Maccabean revolt.\n\n\"Gaudium et spes\" claims that the example of Christians may be a contributory factor to atheism, writing, \"…believers can have more than a little to do with the birth of atheism. To the extent that they neglect their own training in the faith, or teach erroneous doctrine, or are deficient in their religious, moral, or social life, they must be said to conceal rather than reveal the authentic face of God and religion.\"\n\nSecular and religious critics have accused many Christians of being hypocritical. Tom Whiteman, a Philadelphia psychologist found that the primary reasons for Christian divorce include adultery, abuse (including substance, physical and verbal abuse), and abandonment whereas the number one reason cited for divorce in the general population was incompatibility.\n\nSome have argued that Christianity is undermined by the inability of Christians to agree on matters of faith and church governance, and the tendency for the content of their faith to be determined by regional or political factors. Schopenhauer sarcastically suggested:\n\nChristians respond that Ecumenism has helped bring together such communities, where in the past mistranslations of Christological Greek terms may have resulted in seemingly different views. Non-denominational Christianity represents another approach towards reducing the divisions within Christianity, although many Christian groups claiming to be non-denominational wind up with similar problems.\n\nIndividuals and groups throughout history have been persecuted by certain Christians (and Christian groups) based upon sex, sexual orientation, race, and religion (even within the bounds of Christianity itself). Many of the persecutors attempted to justify their actions with particular scriptural interpretations. During Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages, important Christian theologians advocated religious persecution to varying degrees. However, Early modern Europe witnessed a turning point in the Christian debate on persecution and toleration. Nowadays all significant Christian denominations embrace religious toleration, and \"look back on centuries of persecution with a mixture of revulsion and incomprehension\".\n\nEarly Christianity was a minority religion in the Roman Empire and the early Christians were themselves persecuted during that time. After Constantine I converted to Christianity, it became the dominant religion in the Roman Empire. Already under the reign of Constantine I, Christian heretics had been persecuted; beginning in the late 4th century AD also the ancient pagan religions were actively suppressed. In the view of many historians, the Constantinian shift turned Christianity from a persecuted into a persecuting religion.\n\nAfter the decline of the Roman Empire, the further Christianization of Europe was to a large extent peaceful. However, encounters between Christians and Pagans were sometimes confrontational, and some Christian kings (Charlemagne, Olaf I of Norway) were known for their violence against pagans. In the late Middle Ages, the appearance of the Cathars and Bogomils in Europe laid the stage for the later witch-hunts. These (probably gnostic-influenced) sects were seen as heretics by the Catholic Church, and the Inquisition was established to counter them.\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, the devastation caused by the partly religiously motivated wars (Thirty Years' War, English Civil War, French Wars of Religion) in Europe in the 17th century gave rise to the ideas of religious toleration, freedom of religion and religious pluralism.\n\nChristians will sometimes point out that in their points of view, the wrongdoings of other Christians are not the fault of their religious scriptures but of those who have wrongly interpreted it. They posit that the mistakes of Christians do not refute the validity of their teachings, but merely proves their weakness and sinful nature, of which they then turn to Christ. Thus, according to them, the \"Word of God\" can still be true and valid without it having been accurately followed. According to Ron Sider, an Evangelical theologian, \"The tragedy is that poll after poll by Gallup and Barna show that evangelicals live just like the world. Contrast that with what the New Testament says about what happens when people come to living faith in Christ. There's supposed to be radical transformation in the power of the Holy Spirit (2 Cor 5:17, 1 Cor 10:13). The disconnect between our biblical beliefs and our practice is just, I think, heart-rending.\"\n\nSimilar arguments are held by Roman Catholics against critics of the Catholic Church, or by other Christians defending their respective Churches. of the Church's structure. Roman Catholics will argue that Popes who were corrupt in the Middle Ages is not the fault of the position of the Papacy or of the fact that there are obedient Priests lower in the hierarchy, but the fault of the individual people who act as \"God's representative on Earth\". Such examples can be seen in Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", where Roman Catholic Clergy who had practiced simony find themselves in the lower circles of hell.\n\nAdolf Hitler's 1920 Nazi Party Platform promoted Positive Christianity—which mixed ideas of racial purity and Nazi ideology with elements of Christianity and removed \"Jewish\" elements.\n\nNazism aimed to transform the subjective consciousness of the German people—their attitudes, values and mentalities—into a single-minded, obedient \"national community\". The Nazis believed they would therefore have to replace class, religious and regional allegiances. Under the \"Gleichschaltung\" process, Hitler attempted to create a unified Protestant Reich Church from Germany's 28 existing Protestant churches. The plan failed, and was resisted by the Confessing Church. Persecution of the Catholic Church in Germany followed the Nazi takeover. Hitler moved quickly to eliminate political catholicism. Amid harassment of the Church, the Reich concordat treaty with the Vatican was signed in 1933, and promised to respect Church autonomy. Hitler routinely disregarded the Concordat, closing all Catholic institutions whose functions were not strictly religious. Clergy, nuns, and lay leaders were targeted, with thousands of arrests over the ensuing years.\n\nHitler was supportive of Christianity in public, yet hostile to it in private. Anti-clericalists like Joseph Goebbels and Martin Bormann saw the conflict with the Churches as a priority concern, and anti-church and anti-clerical sentiments were strong among grassroots party activists. Hitler was born to a practising Catholic mother and an anticlerical father, but after leaving home Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments. According to biographer Alan Bullock, Hitler retained some regard for the organisational power of Catholicism but held private contempt for its central teachings, which he said, if taken to their conclusion, \"would mean the systematic cultivation of the human failure.\":\n\nJoseph Goebbels, the Reich Minister of Propaganda used his position to widely publicise trials of clergy and nuns in his propaganda campaigns, showing the cases in the worst possible light. In 1928, soon after his election to the Reichstag, Goebbels wrote in his diary that National Socialism was a \"religion\" that needed a genius to uproot \"outmoded religious practices\" and put new ones in their place: \"One day soon National Socialism will be the religion of all Germans. My Party is my church, and I believe I serve the Lord best if I do his will, and liberate my oppressed people from the fetters of slavery. That is my gospel.\" As the war progressed, on the \"Church Question\", he wrote \"after the war it has to be generally solved... There is, namely, an insoluble opposition between the Christian and a heroic-German world view\".\n\nHitler's chosen deputy and private secretary, Martin Bormann, was a rigid guardian of National Socialist orthodoxy and saw Christianity and Nazism as \"incompatible\" (mainly because of its Jewish origins), as did the official Nazi philosopher, Alfred Rosenberg. In his \"Myth of the Twentieth Century\" (1930), Rosenberg wrote that the main enemies of the Germans were the \"Russian Tartars\" and \"Semites\" - with \"Semites\" including Christians, especially the Catholic Church.\n\nAccording to Bullock, Hitler considered the Protestant clergy to be \"insignificant\" and \"submissive\" and lacking in a religion to be taken seriously. Hitler attempted to create a unified Protestant Reich Church from 28 separate regional churches through \"Gleichschaltung\". His bid to create a unified Reich Church ultimately failed, and Hitler became disinterested in supporting the so-called \"German Christians\" Nazi aligned movement. Hitler initially lent support to Ludwig Muller, a Nazi and former naval chaplain, to serve as Reich Bishop, but his heretical views against Paul the Apostle and the Semitic origins of Christ and the Bible (see Positive Christianity) quickly alienated sections of the Protestant church. Lutheran Pastor Martin Neimoller created the Confessing Church movement to oppose the Nazification of Protestant churches. Neimoller was arrested by the Gestapo in 1937, and sent to the concentration camps. The Confessing Church seminary was prohibited that same year.\n\nChristian persecution complex is the notion that Christian values and Christians are being oppressed by social groups and governments. According to Elizabeth Castelli, some set the starting point in the middle of the 20th century while others point to the 90's. After 9/11, it accelarated. The concept that Christianity is being oppressed is popular among conservative politicians in contemporary politics in the United States, and they utilize this idea to address issues concerning LGBT people or the ACA’s Contraceptives Mandate, which they perceive as an attack on Christianity.\n\nOthers (like prof Candida Moss and lecturer Paul Cavill ) point out, that this mentality of being persecuted roots back at early Christianity era. it appeared during the era of early Christianity due to internal Christian identity politics. claims that the New Testament teaches that persecutions are inherent to Christianity.\n\nRam Mohan Roy criticized Christian doctrines, and asserted that how \"unreasonable\" and \"self-contradictory\" they are. He further adds that people, even from India were embracing Christianity due to the economic hardship and weakness, just like European Jews were pressured to embrace Christianity, by both encouragement and force.\n\nVivekananda regarded Christianity as \"collection of little bits of Indian thought. Ours is the religion of which Buddhism with all its greatness is a rebel child, and of which Christianity is a very patchy imitation.\"\n\nPhilosopher Dayanand Saraswati, regarded Christianity as \"barbarous religion, and a 'false religion' religion believed only by fools and by the people in a state of barbarism,\" he included that Bible contains many stories and precepts that are immoral, praising cruelty, deceit and encouraging sin.\n\nIn 1956 the Niyogi Committee Report On Christian Missionary Activities was published by the Government of Madhya Pradesh. This influential report on controversial missionary activities in India recommended that suitable controls on conversions brought about through illegal means should be implemented. Also in the 1950s, K.M. Panikkar's work \"Asia and Western Dominance\" was published and was one of the first post-Independence Indian critiques of Christian missions. It argued that the attempt to convert Asia has definitely failed, and that this failure was due to the missionaries' claim of a monopoly of truth which was alien to the Asian mind; their association with imperialism and the attitude of moral and racial superiority of the Christian West.\n\nThe Indian writer and philosopher Ram Swarup was \"most responsible for reviving and re-popularizing\" the Hindu critique of Christian missionary practices in the 1980s. He insisted that monotheistic religions like Christianity \"nurtured among their adherents a lack of respect for other religions\". Other important writers who criticized Christianity from an Indian and Hindu perspective include Sita Ram Goel and Arun Shourie. Arun Shourie urged Hindus to be \"alert to the fact that missionaries have but one goal - that of harvesting us for the church\"; and he wrote that they have \"developed a very well-knit, powerful, extremely well-endowned organizational framework\" for attaining that goal. In his \"widely read and cited\" book \"Missionaries in India\", Shourie tried to build a case that Christian evangelistic methods were cynically calculating and materialistic, and to Shourie, missionary strategizing \"sounded more like the Planning Commission, if not the Pentagon, than like Jesus\".\n\nIndian philosopher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, wrote: \n\nShlomo ben Aderet criticized Christianity, adding that it has lesser form of monotheism, and lacks a unified deity compared to Judaism.\n\nDavid Flusser viewed Christianity as \"Cheaper Judaism\" and highly anti-Judaism. He also highlighted the \"failure of christianity to convert the Jewish people to the new message\" as \"precisely the reason for the strong anti-jewish trend in christianity.\"\n\nProfessor Moshe Halbertal, regards Christianity to be \"idolatrous religion\" and he further adds that the idolatry by Christians \"opened the door to the easing of many other restrictive prohibitions.\"\n\nStephen Samuel Wise in his own words was critical towards the Christian community for their failure to rescue Jews from Europe during Nazi rule. He wrote that: \n\nAccording to the Qu'ran, At-Tawba 31, Christians should follow one God, but they have made multiple.\n\nMuslim scholars have criticized Christianity, usually for its Trinity concept. They argue that this doctrine is an invention, distortion of the idea about God, and presentation of the idea that there are three gods.\n\nSome have argued that Christianity is not founded on a historical Jesus, but rather on a mythical creation. This view proposes that the idea of Jesus was the Jewish manifestation of Hellenistic mystery cults that acknowledged the non-historic nature of their deity using it instead as a teaching device. However, the position that Jesus was not a historical figure is essentially without support among biblical scholars and classical historians, most of whom regard its arguments as examples of pseudo-scholarship.\n\nScholars and historians such as James H. Charlesworth caution against using parallels with life-death-rebirth gods in the widespread mystery religions prevalent in the Hellenistic culture to conclude that Jesus is a purely legendary figure. Charlesworth argues that \"it would be foolish to continue to foster the illusion that the Gospels are merely fictional stories like the legends of Hercules and Asclepius. The theologies in the New Testament are grounded on interpretations of real historical events…\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52575662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52575662", "title": "David ab Owen", "text": "David ab Owen\n\nDavid ab Owen (died 1512) was a Welsh abbot and bishop. His family were from the Glasgoed area of Meifod, Montgomeryshire. He studied at Oxford, graduating with a qualification in Canon and Civil Law. He is thought to have taken his Doctorate in Law.\n\nHe was an abbot of Strata Marcella, and of Strata Florida, and also of Aberconwy at Maenan (sometime after of 1489) where he continued after his appointment to the bishopric of St. Asaph in December 1503.\n\nMany of the Welsh poets of the time, such as Bedo Brwynllys, Dafydd Amharedudd ap Tudur, Guto'r Glyn and Hywel Rheinallt praised his scholarship and learning.\n\nHe died in February 1512, and was buried near the altar in his cathedral church.\n"}
{"id": "7362554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7362554", "title": "Dharmarajika Stupa", "text": "Dharmarajika Stupa\n\nThe Dharmarajika Stupa (), also referred to as the Great Stupa of Taxila, is a Buddhist stupa near Taxila, Pakistan. It dates from the 2nd century CE, and was built to house small bone fragments of the Buddha. The stupa, along with the large monastic complex that later developed around it, forms part of the Ruins of Taxila - which were inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980.\n\nIt has been claimed that that Dharmarajika Stupa was built over the remains of an even older stupa that had been built by the Mauryan emperor King \"Ashoka\" in the 3rd century BCE, though other archeologists alternatively suggest that this is unlikely. Indo-Greek coins found at the site date from the 2nd century BCE, suggesting earliest possible establishment of a religious monument at the site.\n\nSmall stupas that predate the main stupa are found throughout the Dharmarajika site, and surrounded an earlier core stupa in an irregular layout. It is known that the earlier core stupa contained a pathway for circumabulation that was made of plaster, and decorated with shell bangles in geometric patterns. The earlier stupa likely had four gates in axial directions.\n\nThe current stupa was believed to have been established in the 2nd century CE during the Kushan era in order to house relics of the Buddha, which may have been sourced from earlier monuments, and originally buried at the site around 78 CE. Buddhist texts mention that frankincense was used during religious services at Dharmarajika, while the complex was paved with colourful glass tiles.\n\nThe site came under control of Persian Sassanid rule, and suffered a period of stagnation. Large-scale developments took place during the late Kushan and Kidarite era which added numerous monasteries and stupas to the site.\n\nThe site was devastated by the White Huns in the 5th century CE, and then abandoned. Subsequent rulers, such as the Hun king Mihirakula, persecuted the region's Buddhists. Under his reign, over a thousand Buddhist monasteries throughout Gandhara are said to have been destroyed. The White Huns destroyed not only Taxilan sites, but also devastated nearby Peshawar.\n\nThe stupa was excavated by Sir John Marshall in 1913. The stupa had been looted several times prior to Marshall's discovery, and was badly damaged. Marshall noted that a large trench, requiring tremendous effort, was built at some point in the past in order to loot the stupa's precious relics. By 1934, enough of the site had been uncovered that the site's scale could be appreciated. Human skeletons were discovered in the open area immediately south of the stupa, and may be the remains of monks who were killed during the invasion of the White Huns.\n\nThe location of the stupa and its monastic community about 1 kilometre outside of Sirkap aligns with ancient Gandharan beliefs that the Buddha recommended monasteries should be neither \"too far\" nor \"too close\" to adjacent towns. Three distinctive types of masonry in the buildings around the main stupa suggest the contributions of different periods to the building activity.\n\nDharmarajika Stupa is the largest of all stupas in the Taxila region, Surrounding the main mound is a passageway for \"pradakshina\" — the ancient practice of walking around a holy site.\n\nThe stupa's large \"anda\", or hemispherical mound, is damaged − though the plinth of the mound, known as the \"medhi\", is still largely intact. The \"anda\" mound was made of ashlar stone. The stupa's \"harmika\", or fence like structure built atop the \"anda\" mound, has been lost.\n\nThe stupa's southern gateway was initially considered the most important, though the construction of four smaller stupas (termed G7, G8, S7, Q1) to the west of the stupa indicate that this then likely became the preferred entrance for those performing circambulation. Later constructions around the \"Eastern Avenue\" then shifted the preferred route for circambulation to the eastern side of the stupa.\n\nBefore entering the main sacred areas, visitors to the shrine from Sirkap would pass through a large building, now termed building H, that would openly display relics. Visitors likely venerated the relics at building H before entering the main stupa area.\n\nThe stupa was surrounded by a circle of smaller stupas which were built approximately 200 years after the main stupa's construction, and were likely constructed together as part of a project funded by a single patron.\n\nAdditional stupas were built further along the northern portion of the site by various patrons, and date from the Indo-Scythian period. These stupas form a \"Northern Avenue,\" that had several small shrines with devotional images, rendering the Northern Avenue as a processional corridor. Devotional images were likely relegated to the periphery of the complex due to religious conservatives, who were hesitant to fully embrace the new practice of using imagery in religious practice.\n\nUnlike constructions at Sanchi, stupas around the Dharmarajika Stupa were built by individual donors, rather than as part of a communal effort.\n\nEarly monastic cells near the stupa were built as a row of rooms, with a verandah, The verandah style was later dropped in favour of monastic living quarters surrounding quadrangles that were built immediately north, northeast, and east of the stupa approximately 300 years after the stupa's construction.\n\nThe northern monastery consisted of two courtyards that were each built around a large stupa. The smaller eastern courtyard is believed to have housed 13 monks.\n\nMonastery G, located immediately west of the stupa has at least 50 monastic cells, a stupa, and was likely multistoried. Monastery M in the extreme northwest section of the site, and contained its own stupa in a small courtyard. Monastery M is connected to a long residential monastery, oriented in a roughly north-south direction. At the southern edge of this monastery are the remains of two stupas, now termed E1 and E2. E1 was built in a pre-existing cell, while E2 was a more elaborated stupa that contained a small passageway for circambulation. Neither stupa was likely open to the public.\n\nThe site is famous for its bone relics – thought to be those of the Buddha, Much of the stupa's precious relics had been looted by the time it was discovered by Sir John Marshall. A silver casket containing a silver inscription was recovered from the stupa's chapel after discovery, The inscription is written in the ancient Kharosthi script that was once common throughout Gandhara, The inscription states that \"Urusaka\" of \"Noacha\" placed bone relics of the Buddha in his chapel at Dharmarajika in 78 CE.\n\nIn 2016, 2 bone relics from the Dharmarajika Stupa were sent to Sri Lanka for one month. The relics were displayed at important shrines in Polonnaruwa, Colombo, Kandy, and Anuradhapura, and attracted 9.3 million visitors.\n\n18 reliquary vessels were also recovered from smaller stupas surrounding the Dharmarajika Stupa that yielded a wide array of relics, including one that encased a cylindrical piece of gold. Other reliquaries yielded gold jewelry and precious jewels, while others contained items from distant locations such as lapis lazuli from Afghanistan, pearls, and shells − reflecting the large trade networks operating from Taxila. Several coins of the Indo-Greek king Zoilos II were found under the foundation of such a 1st-century BCE stupa.\n\nThe name Dharmarajika comes from Dharmaraja, a name given to Buddha who was the true Dharma Raja (Lord of Law), according to Marshall. It is also believed that ‘Dharmarajika’ is derived from the word ‘Dharmaraja’, a title used by Mauryan emperor Ashoka. The stupa is also popularly known as \"Chir Tope\", or \"Scarred hill\".\n\nThe Dharmarajika Stupa lies about 3 kilometers east of the Taxila Museum, along the PMO Colony Road, northeast of Taxila Cantonment. The stupa was located near the ancient city of Sirkap, which also forms part of the Ruins of Taxila.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9531834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9531834", "title": "Emergency baptism", "text": "Emergency baptism\n\nAn emergency baptism is a baptism administered to a person in danger of death. This can be done by a person not normally authorized to administer the sacraments\n\nIn the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church, the ordinary minister of baptism is a bishop, priest, or deacon (canon 861 §1 of the Code of Canon Law), and in normal circumstances, only the parish priest of the person to be baptized, or someone authorized by the parish priest may do so licitly (canon 530). \"If the ordinary minister is absent or impeded, a catechist or some other person deputed to this office by the local Ordinary, may lawfully confer baptism; indeed, in a case of necessity, any person who has the requisite intention may do so (canon 861 §2), even a non-Catholic or indeed a non-Christian.\n\nBy \"a case of necessity\" is principally meant imminent danger of death because of either illness or an external threat. \"The requisite intention\" is, at the minimum level, the intention \"to do what the Church does\" through the rite of baptism.\n\nThe Latin Rite considers that the effect of the sacrament is not produced by the person who baptizes, but by the Holy Spirit.\n\nIn the Eastern Catholic Churches, a deacon is not considered an ordinary minister of baptism. Administration of the sacrament is reserved, as in the Latin Church, to the parish priest. But, \"in case of necessity, baptism can be administered by a deacon or, in his absence or if he is impeded, by another cleric, a member of an institute of consecrated life, or by any other Christian faithful; even by the mother or father, if another person is not available who knows how to baptize\" (canon 677 of the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches.)\n\nThe discipline of the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodoxy and the Assyrian Church of the East is similar to that of the Eastern Catholic Churches. As opposed to the Catholic Church, however, they require the baptizer, even in cases of necessity, to be of their own faith, on the grounds that a person cannot convey what he himself does not possess, in this case membership in the Church.\n\nSimilar provisions exist throughout the constituent churches of the Anglican Communion, of which the Episcopal Church in the United States of America is one example as below.\n\nFor the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, the 1979 Book of Common Prayer states that \"Holy Baptism is especially appropriate at the Easter Vigil, on the day of Pentecost, on All Saints' Day or the Sunday after All Saints' day, and on the Feast of the Baptism of our Lord . . . It is recommended that, as far as possible, Baptisms be reserved for these occasions or when a bishop is present. If on any one of the above-named days the ministry of a bishop or priest cannot be obtained, the bishop may specially authorize a deacon to preside. In that case, the deacon omits the prayer over the candidates, page 308, and the formula and action which follow.\" The Book of Common Prayer also specifies under the heading \"Emergency Baptism\" the following:\n\n\"\"In case of emergency, any baptized person may administer Baptism according to the following form. Using the given name of the one baptized (if known), pour water on him or her, saying\"\n\n\"I baptize you in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.\n\n\"The Lord's Prayer is then said.\n\n\"\"Other prayers, such as the following, may be added\"\n\n\"Heavenly Father, we thank you that by water and the Holy Spirit you have bestowed on upon this your servant the forgiveness of sin and have raised him to the new life of grace. Strengthen him, O Lord, with your presence, enfold him in the arms of your mercy, and keep him safe forever.\n\n\"\"The person who administers emergency Baptism should inform the priest of the appropriate parish, so that the fact can be properly recorded.\"\n\n\"If the baptized person recovers, the Baptism should be recognized at a public celebration of the Sacrament with a bishop or priest presiding, and the person baptized under emergency conditions, together with the sponsors or godparents, taking part in everything except the administration of the water.\"\n\nFor Methodists and many other Protestant denominations, too, the ordinary minister of baptism is a duly ordained or appointed minister of religion.\n\nThe Roman Ritual declares that a child is not to be baptized while still enclosed (clausus) in its mother's womb, it supposes that the baptismal water cannot reach the body of the child. When, however, this seems possible, even with the aid of an instrument, Benedict XIV declares that midwives should be instructed to confer conditional baptism. The Ritual further says that when the water can flow upon the head of the infant the sacrament is to be administered absolutely; but if it can be poured only on some other part of the body, baptism is indeed to be conferred, but it must be conditionally repeated in case the child survives its birth, It is to be noted that in these last two cases, the rubric of the Ritual supposes that the infant has partly emerged from the womb. For if the fetus was entirely enclosed, baptism is to be repeated conditionally in all cases.\n\nIn case of the death of the mother, the fetus is to be immediately extracted and baptized, should there be any life in it. Infants have been taken alive from the womb well after the mother's death. After the Cæsarean incision has been performed, the fetus may be conditionally baptized before extraction if possible; if the sacrament is administered after its removal from the womb the baptism is to be absolute, provided it is certain that life remains. If after extraction it is doubtful whether it be still alive, it is to be baptized under the condition: \"If thou art alive\". According to Catholic teaching, the fetus is animated by a human soul from the very beginning of its conception. In cases of delivery where the issue is a mass that is not certainly animated by human life, it is to be baptized conditionally: \"If thou art a man.\"\n\nIn 1858, Edgardo Mortara, then six years old, was taken from his Jewish parents by the police of the Papal States. He had reportedly been baptized by a Roman Catholic servant girl of the family while he was ill, because she feared that otherwise he would not be saved if he died.\n\nThe Jewish orphans controversy is a legal dispute that occurred after the Second World War when the Holy See under Pope Pius XII issued instructions that Catholic institutions and families should keep baptized Jewish children in their ranks after they had been rescued from a likely deportation to Auschwitz.\n\nA deathbed conversion is the adoption of a particular religious faith shortly before dying. Making a conversion on one's deathbed may reflect an immediate change of belief, a desire to formalize longer-term beliefs, or to complete a process of conversion already underway.\n"}
{"id": "3313339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313339", "title": "Hakim (title)", "text": "Hakim (title)\n\n' and ' are two Arabic titles derived from the same triliteral root Ḥ-K-M \"appoint, choose, judge\". Compare the Hebrew title hakham.\nHakim density in ancient times were dealing with health..This is the only class of the society which had the knowledge of human physiology and anatomy..this class of the society is khown for their education and for their contribution in the field of health..\n\nThis title is one of the 99 names of Allah.\n\nHakīm (alternative transcription Hakeem) indicates a \"wise man\" or \"physician\", or in general, a practitioner of herbal medicine, especially of Unani and Islamic medicine, like Hakim Ajmal Khan, Hakim Said, Hakim Syed Zillur Rahman, etc.\n\nHakīm was also used more generally during the Islamic Golden Age to refer to polymath scholars who were knowledgeable in religion, medicine, the sciences, and Islamic philosophy.\n\nSome Examples of Hakīm are:\n\n\nHākim (alternative transcription Hakem) means a ruler, governor or judge. As with many titles, it also occurs as a part of the names of many individuals.\n\n\n\nAs with many titles, the word also occurs in many personal names, without any noble or political significance.\n"}
{"id": "57858592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57858592", "title": "Hof Ásatrúarfélagsins", "text": "Hof Ásatrúarfélagsins\n\nHof Ásatrúarfélagsins is a religious building under construction in Reykjavík, Iceland. When finished it will be used by the Heathen organization Ásatrúarfélagið for religious ceremonies, concerts and exhibitions. It is Iceland's first major hof to the Norse gods since the Viking Age. It is located on the southern slope of the hill Öskjuhlíð, close to Reykjavík University. The project has been under development since 2005, but suffered several delays. It has been under construction since 2015.\n\nHof Ásatrúarfélagsins was designed by the Icelandic architect and Ásatrúarfélagið member Magnús Jensson. Jensson wanted the building to look timeless and neither be a Viking Age pastiche nor specifically modern. The aim was to represent a close relationship to earth, sky and sun. The design incorporates numbers and geometry considered sacred by Ásatrúarfélagið, such as the numbers nine, 432,000 and the golden ratio.\n\nThe main part of the building will have an area of 350 square metres and hold a maximum of 250 people. It has an oval shape and an inverted dome on top to let in sunlight which changes on a daily and seasonal basis. It is built into the side of the hill and uses natural rock as one of its walls, allowing water to flow down the stone wall and be collected in pools.\n\nThe design allows the building to be expanded in the future. According to Ásatrúarfélagið's \"allsherjargoði\" Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson, there are preliminary plans for an expansion which would allow Ásatrúarfélagið to provide a facility for international research on subjects related to mythology.\n\nIn 2005, Ásatrúarfélagið decided to sell its house in Reykjavík which it had acquired in 1998. The real-estate value had at this point increased so much that the organization's long-time goal of building a hof in Reykjavík for its activities had become a realistic project. Ásatrúarfélagið originally applied for a plot of land for a religious building in Elliðaárdalur. Reykjavík's mayor Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir instead suggested a location on the hill Öskjuhlíð, which Ásatrúarfélagið accepted in 2006. However, this plot turned out to be within the safety zone of the Reykjavík Airport, so a new location nearby, on the southern slope of the same hill, was assigned in 2008. Ásatrúarfélagið and Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson were especially pleased by the proximity between this location and the Reykjavík University.\n\nThe land was donated by the city, while the construction funds were provided by Ásatrúarfélagið itself. When the building still was on a planning stage, the 2008 Icelandig banking collapse took place, which resulted in substantial financial losses for Ásatrúarfélagið and the hof project was delayed by several years. In January 2015 Magnús Jensson's design for the building was eventually revealed and it was reported that construction was soon to begin. The building was reported to have a construction cost of 130 million Icelandic krónas.\n\nThe building is made of concrete and local wood. Construction broke ground at the solar eclipse of 20 March 2015, with the building originally projected to be finished in the late summer of 2016. However, the complicated design has caused technical problems and further delays. In December 2017 it was expected to be finished by the end of 2018.\n\nThe name used in the media and promotional material, \"hof Ásatrúarfélagsins\", is descriptive and simply means \"The Asatru Fellowship's hall\" or \"The Asatru Fellowship's temple\". The fellowship has asked the public for proposals for the building's official name, but the final decision will be taken shortly before the consecration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29774347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29774347", "title": "Islam in Saint Lucia", "text": "Islam in Saint Lucia\n\nAccording to a 2009 Pew Research Center report, Muslims constitute approximately 0.1% of the population in Saint Lucia.\n"}
{"id": "29482872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29482872", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Egypt", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Egypt\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Egypt is presently composed of an exempt Latin missionary jurisdiction and 14 Eastern Catholic (arch)eparchies (mainly the Coptic Catholic Patriarchate's province), but also yielded over 90 titular sees.\n\n(Exempt, i.e. directly subject to the Holy See) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211143", "title": "List of Christian denominations", "text": "List of Christian denominations\n\nA Christian denomination is a distinct religious body within Christianity, identified by traits such as a name, organization, leadership and doctrine. Individual bodies, however, may use alternative terms to describe themselves, such as church or sometimes fellowship. Divisions between one group and another are defined by authority and doctrine; issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, and papal primacy may separate one denomination from another. Groups of denominations—often sharing broadly similar beliefs, practices, and historical ties—are sometimes known as \"branches of Christianity\" or \"denominational families\" (e.g. Eastern or Western Christianity and their sub-branches).\n\nThis is not a complete list, but aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity. Only those Christian denominations or organizations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable. The denominations or organizations listed are ordered from ancient to contemporary Christianity.\n\nSome groups included on this list do not consider themselves denominations. For example, the Catholic Church considers itself the one true church and the Holy See, as pre-denominational. The Orthodox Church also considers itself the original Church, and pre-denominational. To express further the complexity involved, the Catholic and Orthodox churches were historically one and the same, as evidenced by the fact that they are the only two modern churches in existence to accept all of the first seven ecumenical councils, until differences arose, such as papal authority and dominance, the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the continuance of emperors in the Eastern Roman Empire, and the final and permanent split that occurred during the Crusades with the siege of Constantinople. This also illustrates that denominations can arise not only from religious or theological issues, but political and generational divisions as well.\n\nOther groups that are viewed by non-adherents as denominational are highly decentralized and do not have any formal denominational structure, authority, or record-keeping beyond the local congregation; several groups within the Restoration Movement fall into this category.\n\nSome groups are large (e.g. Catholics, Orthodox, Lutherans, Anglicans or Baptists), while others are just a few small churches, and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list except for the denominational group or movement as a whole (e.g. Church of the East, Oriental Orthodoxy, Lutheranism or the Latter Day Saints). The largest group is the Catholic Church with more than 1.29 billion members. The smallest of these groups may have only a few dozen adherents or an unspecified number of participants in independent churches as described below. As such, specific numbers and a certain size may not define a group as a denomination. However, as a general rule, the larger a group becomes, the more acceptance and legitimacy it gains.\n\nModern movements such as Christian fundamentalism, Pietism, Evangelicalism, the Holiness movement and Pentecostalism sometimes cross denominational lines, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups (as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example). Such subtleties and complexities are not clearly depicted here.\n\nBetween denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called Christian or a Christian denomination as disagreements arise primarily from doctrinal differences between groups. As an example, this list contains groups also known as \"rites\" which many, such as the Catholic Church, would say are not denominations as they are in full papal communion, and thus part of the Catholic Church. For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination. Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at their respective articles.\n\nThere is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies. Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such as \"cult\", or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability. Such considerations often vary from place to place, or culture to culture, where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region, but be widely regarded as a \"dangerous cult\" in another part of the world. Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment about the size, importance, or character of a group or its members.\n\nEarly Christianity is often divided into three different branches that differ in theology and traditions, which all appeared in the 1st century AD. They include Jewish Christianity, Pauline Christianity and Gnostic Christianity. All modern Christian denominations are said to have descended from the Jewish and Pauline Christianities, with Gnostic Christianity dying, or being hunted, out of existence after the early Christian era and being largely forgotten until discoveries made in the late 19th and early twentieth centuries. There are also other theories on the origin of Christianity.\n\nThe following Christian groups appeared between the beginning of the Christian religion and the First Council of Nicaea in 325.\n\nUnlike the previously mentioned groups, the following are all considered to be related to Christian Gnosticism. \n\nThe following are groups of Christians appearing between the First Council of Nicaea, the Great Schism and Proto-Protestantism.\n\nThe Church of the East split from the Parthian Church during the Sassanid Period. It is also called the Nestorian Church or the Church of Persia. Declaring itself separate from the state church of the Roman Empire in 424–427, liturgically, it adhered to the East Syriac Rite. Theologically, it adopted the dyophysite doctrine of Nestorianism, which emphasizes the separateness of the divine and human natures of Jesus. The Church of the East by the 15th century was largely confined to the Eastern Aramaic-speaking Assyrian communities of northern Mesopotamia, in and around the rough triangle formed by Mosul and Lakes Van and Urmia—the same general region where the Church of the East had first emerged between the 1st and 3rd centuries AD.\n\nIts patriarchal lines divided in a tumultuous period from the 16th-19th century, finally consolidated into the Eastern Catholic Chaldean Church (in full communion with the Pope of Rome), and the Assyrian Church of the East. Other minor, modern related splinter groups include the Ancient Church of the East (split 1968 due of rejecting some changes made by Patriarch Shimun XXI Eshai), the Chaldean Syrian Church, and the Mar Thoma Church. Together, the Assyrian, Ancient, Chaldean Syrian, Mar Thoma, and Chaldean Catholic Church comprise over 1.6 million.\n\nAssyrian Christianity comprises churches who keep the traditional Nestorian Christology and ecclesiology of the historical Church of the East after the original church reunited with the Catholic Church, forming the Chaldean Catholic Church in 1552. The Assyrian Church of the East and the Ancient Church of the East together have 0.6 million members. \n\n\nOriental Orthodoxy comprises those Christians who did not accept the Council of Chalcedon in 451. Other denominations often erroneously label these churches \"Monophysite\"; however, as the Oriental Orthodox do not adhere to the teachings of Eutyches, they themselves reject this label, preferring the term Miaphysite. Some of these churches, especially the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria claim origination by Saint Mark and his 1st-century missionary journeys.\n\nHistorically, many of the Oriental Orthodox churches consider themselves collectively to be the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church that Christ founded. Some have considered the Oriental Orthodox communion to be a part of the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church, a view which is gaining increasing acceptance in the wake of ecumenical dialogues. Oriental Orthodoxy forms the fourth largest communion of Christian churches, with approximately 76 million members.\n\nAutonomous churches under their respective autocephalous mother church are indented.\n\n \n\nThe Catholic Church, also known as the Roman Catholic Church, is composed of 24 autonomous \"sui iuris\" particular churches: the Latin Church and the 23 Eastern Catholic Churches. The Catholic Church considers itself the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church that Christ founded, and which Saint Peter initiated along with the missionary work of Saint Paul and others. As such, the Catholic Church does not consider itself a denomination, but rather considers itself pre-denominational, the original Church of Christ. Continuity is claimed based upon apostolic succession with the early Church. The Catholic population exceeds 1.29 billion as of 2016.\n\nThe Latin, or Western Catholic Church, is the largest and most widely known of the 24 \"sui iuris\" churches that together make up the Catholic Church (not to be confused with the Roman Rite, which is one of the Latin liturgical rites, not a particular church). In 2015, the Latin Church composed 1.255 billion members.\n\nAll of the following are particular churches of the Catholic Church. They are all in communion with the Pope as Bishop of Rome and acknowledge his claim of universal jurisdiction and authority. They have some minor distinct theological emphases and expressions (for instance, in the case of those that are of Greek/Byzantine tradition, concerning some non-doctrinal aspects of the Latin view of Purgatory). The Eastern Catholic Churches and the Latin Church (which together compose the worldwide Catholic Church) share the same doctrine and sacraments, and thus the same faith. The total membership of the churches accounts for approximately 18 million members.\n\n\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church consists of jurisdictions in communion with each other. The church has over 250 million members, making it the second largest church. Some of them have a disputed administrative status (i.e. their autonomy or autocephaly is only partially recognized), but all remain in communion with each other as one church. The Orthodox claim continuity (based upon apostolic succession) with the early Church, and consider themselves pre-denominational, being the original Church of Christ before 1054.\n\nThis list is provided in the official order of precedence. Indentation indicates autonomy rather than autocephaly, and autonomous and semi-autonomous churches are listed under their respective autocephalous mother church.\n\nProto-Protestantism refers to individuals and movements that propagated ideas similar to Protestantism before 1517, when Martin Luther (1483–1546) initiated the Protestant Reformation. Major representatives were Peter Waldo (c. 1140–c. 1205), John Wycliffe (1320s–1384), Jan Hus (c. 1369–1415) and the movements they started.\n\nThis list includes a variety of Protestant denominations which separated from the Catholic Church during the Reformation, as well as their further divisions. A denomination labeled \"Protestant\" subscribes to the fundamental Protestant principles—though not always—that is scripture alone, justification by faith alone and the universal priesthood of believers.\n\nThis list gives only an overview, and certainly does not mention all of the Protestant denominations. The exact number of Protestant denominations, including the members of the denominations, is difficult to calculate and depends on definition. A group that fits the generally accepted definition of \"Protestant\" might not officially use the term. Therefore, it should be taken with caution.\n\nThe majority of Protestants are members of just a handful of denominational families: Adventism, Anglicanism, Baptists, Calvinism (Reformed tradition), Lutheranism, Methodism and Pentecostalism.\n\nNondenominational, Evangelical, charismatic, neo-charismatic, independent and other churches are on the rise, and constitute a significant part of Protestant Christianity. The most accepted figure among various authors and scholars includes around 900 million Protestant Christians.\n\nLutherans are a major branch of Protestantism, identifying with the theology of Martin Luther, a German friar, ecclesiastical reformer, and theologian. The whole of Lutheranism has about 70-90 million members.\nAnabaptists trace their origins to the Radical Reformation. The movement is seen as an offshoot of Protestantism, although the view has been challenged by some Anabaptists. There are approximately 2.1 million Anabaptists as of 2015.\n\nAnglicanism has referred to itself as the \"via media\" between Catholicism and Protestantism. It considers itself to be both Catholic and Reformed. Although the use of the term \"Protestant\" to refer to Anglicans was once common, it is controversial today, with some rejecting the label and others accepting it. In Protestantism, Anglicans number over 85 million.\n\n\nAs secessionist churches, these churches are not in full communion with the Anglican Communion. A select few of these churches are recognized by certain individual provinces of the Anglican Communion.\n\nReformed Protestantism, also known as the Reformed tradition, or more commonly Calvinism, is a movement which broke from the Catholic Church in the 16th century. There are from 55-100 million Christians identifying as Reformers.\n\nBaptists emerged as the English Puritans were influenced by the Anabaptists, and along with Methodism, grew in size and influence after they sailed to the New World (the remaining Puritans who traveled to the New World were congregationalists). There are about 75-105 million Baptists.\n\n\n\n\nPietism was an influential movement in Lutheranism that combined its emphasis on Biblical doctrine with the Reformed emphasis on individual piety and living a vigorous Christian life. Although a movement in Lutheranism, influence on Anglicanism, in particular John Wesley, led to the spawning of Methodism.\n\nMethodism emerged out the influence of Pietism within Anglicanism. Some 60-80 million Christians are Methodists.\n\nThe Holiness Movement involves a set of beliefs and practices which emerged from 19th-century Methodism. As of 2015, churches of the movement had an estimated 12 million adherents.\n\nThe Catholic Apostolic churches were born out of the 1830s revival started in London by the teachings of Edward Irving, and out of the resultant Catholic Apostolic Church Movement.\n\nRestorationism and the Restoration Movement seek to restore Christianity along the lines of what is known about the apostolic early church which restorationists see as the search for a more pure and more ancient form of the religion. Restorationism and the Restoration Movement comprise Protestant Christians identifying either with trinitarian or nontrinitarian theologies.\n\nMost Latter Day Saint denominations are derived from the Church of Christ established by Joseph Smith in 1830. The largest worldwide denomination of this movement, and the one publicly recognized as Mormonism, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Some sects, known as the \"Prairie Saints\", broke away because they did not recognize Brigham Young as the head of the church, and did not follow him West in the mid-1800s. Other sects broke away over the abandonment of practicing plural marriage after the 1890 Manifesto. Other denominations are defined by either a belief in Joseph Smith as a prophet or acceptance of the Book of Mormon as scripture. The Latter Day Saints comprise a little over 16 million members collectively.\n\n\n\n\nEvangelicalism is a transdenominational Protestant movement which maintains the belief that the essence of the Gospel consists of the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ's atonement.\n\n\nThese churches are the result of a merger between distinct denominational churches. Churches are listed here when their disparate heritage marks them as inappropriately listed in the particular categories above.\n\nMany churches are non-denominational. These churches have emerged into their own pseudo-denomination, with many similarities. Most of these churches have origins in a historic mainline Protestant denomination.\n\nThese nondenominational Evangelical churches (due to the emergence of video streaming technologies) are multi-site churches, sharing a broadcast some Sundays or all Sundays with multiple church buildings and locations.\n\nThese are denominations, movements, and organizations deriving from mainline Protestantism.\n\nThese groups of Protestant churches and organizations follow Nontrinitarian theology with different interpretations of it.\nThe following are independent and non-mainstream movements, denominations and organizations formed during various times in the history of Christianity by splitting from mainline Catholicism, Eastern or Oriental Orthodoxy, or Protestantism.\n\nThe Independent Catholic churches self-identify as either Western or Eastern Catholic although they are not affiliated with or recognized by the Catholic Church. Independent Catholic and Independent Orthodox churches among others are recognized as part of the Independent Sacramental Movement.\n\nThese churches consider themselves Eastern Orthodox but are not in communion with the main body of Eastern Orthodoxy. Some of these denominations consider themselves as part of True Orthodoxy or the Old Believers as examples.\n\nTrue Orthodoxy, or Genuine Orthodoxy, is a movement of Eastern Orthodox churches that separated from the mainstream Eastern Orthodox Church over issues of ecumenism and Calendar reform since the 1920s.\n\nOld Believers form a sub-type of [Proto-]True Orthodoxy that refused to accepted the liturgical and ritual changes made by Patriarch Nikon of Moscow between 1652 and 1666.\n\nSyncretic Eastern Orthodox churches blend with other denominations outside of Eastern Orthodoxy and are not in communion with the main body of Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nThe following churches affirm a Miaphysite Christological position but are not in communion with any of the ancient Oriental Orthodox Churches for various reasons.\n\n\nThe following churches have a Miaphysite Christological position but used to believe different a Christological position and may accept partial communion with ancient Oriental Orthodox churches for various reasons.\n\nThese are churches which blend with other denominations outside of Oriental Orthodoxy but retain a mostly Miaphysite Christological position, and are not in communion with the main body of the ancient Oriental Orthodox churches.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are Asian-initiated churches from Chinese and Japanese regions that were formed during or still under repression in authoritarian eras in their countries as responses from government crackdowns of their old Christian denominations which were deemed illegal or unrecognized in their countries states atheism or religion.\n\n\n\nParachurch organizations are Christian faith-based organizations that work outside and across denominations to engage in social welfare and evangelism. These organizations are not churches but work with churches or represent a coalition of churches.\n\nA Christian movement is a theological, political, or philosophical interpretation of Christianity that is not generally represented by a specific church, sect, or denomination.\n\nThe relation of New Thought to Christianity is not defined as exclusive; some of its adherents see themselves as solely practising Christianity, while adherents of Religious Science say \"yes and no\" to the question of whether they consider themselves to be Christian in belief and practice, leaving it up to the individual to define oneself spiritually.\n\nThe relation of these movements to other Christian ideas can be remote. They are listed here because they include some elements of Christian practice or beliefs, within religious contexts which may be only loosely characterized as Christian.\n\n"}
{"id": "3518378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3518378", "title": "List of Christian worship music artists", "text": "List of Christian worship music artists\n\nThis is a list of Christian worship music artists or bands. This list includes notable artists or bands that have recorded or been known to perform contemporary worship music at some point in their careers. This includes worship leaders, Christian songwriters, and contemporary Christian music artists. It is not a list of contemporary Christian music artists alone.\n\nBands are listed by the first letter in their name, excluding the words \"a\", \"an\", or \"the\", and individuals are listed by family name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1974234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1974234", "title": "List of members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (LDS Church)", "text": "List of members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (LDS Church)\n\nIn The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (also known as the Quorum of the Twelve, the Council of the Twelve Apostles, or simply the Twelve) is one of the governing bodies in the church hierarchy. The quorum was first organized in 1835 and designated as a body of \"traveling councilors\". The following are the current and previous members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in the LDS Church.\n\nThis list only includes individuals who have served in the Quorum. This list is organized by current Quorum members, original Quorum members, then by date of appointment to the Quorum, and then by last name. Members of the First Presidency, which include the President of the Church and his counselors, are usually not part of the Quorum, and a calling to the First Presidency usually entails leaving the Quorum. Exceptions to this rule are noted. It is also possible to be ordained to the priesthood office of Apostle without automatic membership in the Quorum of the Twelve, or to serve in the First Presidency without having been ordained an Apostle. Such individuals who never became members of the Quorum do not appear in the last section of this page.\n\nThe begin and end dates represent when an individual first joined (typically corresponding to an ordination date) and last belonged to the Quorum. Strictly speaking, members of the First Presidency rejoin the Quorum temporarily when a Church President dies, and before a successor is named. For simplicity, this list does not consider these periods in determining the end date. On occasion, a quorum member has left the Quorum for a time and later rejoined it; this is noted where applicable.\n\nAdditional positions held appears with each member, including, Counselor in the First Presidency (\"First Counselor,\" etc.), President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (\"Quorum President\"), Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles (\"Acting Quorum President\"), President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (\"Church President\"), and Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve. A Quorum President is not a member of the Quorum if he is serving in the First Presidency. In those circumstances, an Acting President is typically called, as noted.\n\nThe following men were ordained to the priesthood office of Apostle but were never members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Some, but not all, served in the First Presidency of the LDS Church.\n\nIn addition, J. Reuben Clark was only a member of the Quorum of the Twelve for one week in 1945 and six days in 1951, which were periods of time when the First Presidency was dissolved due to the death of the President of the Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "37239145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37239145", "title": "List of mosques in Israel", "text": "List of mosques in Israel\n\nThis is the List of mosques in Israel and Palestine.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40037097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40037097", "title": "List of mosques in Taiwan", "text": "List of mosques in Taiwan\n\nAs of February 2018, there are eight mosques in Taiwan. The following table is the list of mosques in Taiwan. Taipei Grand Mosque is the largest and oldest mosque in Taiwan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1652601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1652601", "title": "List of yoga schools", "text": "List of yoga schools\n\nYoga, rather than being the name for a singular lineage or even a specific practice, is a bracket term that covers a number of methodologies, each with a number of schools. Within the major branches of yoga such as haṭha, lāya, rāja, jñāna, and bhakti there are many different schools and lineages, both extant and defunct. Since the late 19th century, a great number of distinct new styles of \"Yoga\" have been introduced by individual teachers. There are also a number of schools and traditions that are occasionally referred to as yoga or yogic for their similar practices despite having no foundation in the Indian tradition such as Shin Shin Tōitsu-dō, and Daoyin.\n\nThe term \"Yoga\" has been used for various philosophies and concepts in the context of Hindu revivalism and Neo-Hindu religious and philosophical movements.\nIndia and other Asian countries are home to thousands of yoga schools which were founded over the last century to further the cause of teaching the ancient Indian art. Below are some that have acquired a respected name for their yoga teacher training programs:\n\nYoga teacher training school located in Ko Pha-ngan (Thailand) and Bali (Indonesia):\n\nThese are partially derived from concepts of Hatha yoga. Some of these yoga styles are gain popularity amongst West audience:\n\nWith the widespread reception of the concept of \"Yoga\" in the west, the term has also been transferred to similar systems of meditation and exercise which are not of Indian origin. However, these yoga concepts don't have the global reach of other popular yoga forms\n\n\n1 - Aatm Yogashala\n2 - Samatva Yogalaya\n3 - Tattvaa Yogashala\n4 - Vishwa Shanti Yoga School\n5 - Shobhana Yog Sadan\n6 - Anuttara Raja Yoga"}
{"id": "43505790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43505790", "title": "Lists of monasteries", "text": "Lists of monasteries\n\nThis is a list of monasteries.\n\n\n\nOrthodox monasteries\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56790500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56790500", "title": "Lynne Avadenka", "text": "Lynne Avadenka\n\nLynne Avadenka is an American artist, specializing in multimedia pieces influenced by the Jewish experience.\n\nBased in Detroit, Avadenka is known as a printmaker and creator of limited edition artist’s books. Her works have been exhibited in numerous collections, including the Library of Congress, the British Library, the Israel Museum, the New York Public Library, the Detroit Institute of Arts, the Museum Meermanno in the Hague, and Yeshiva University Museum.\n"}
{"id": "20155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155", "title": "Marcus Aurelius", "text": "Marcus Aurelius\n\nMarcus Aurelius (; ; 26 April 121 – 17 March 180 AD), called the Philosopher, was Roman emperor from . He was adopted by Antoninus Pius, whose daughter Faustina he married and whom he and his adoptive brother, Lucius Verus, succeeded. He ruled the Roman Empire with Lucius until Lucius' death in 169, and with his son by Faustina, Commodus, from 177. He was the last of the rulers traditionally known as the Five Good Emperors. He was a practitioner of Stoicism, and his personal philosophical writings, which later came to be called \"Meditations\", are a significant source of the modern understanding of ancient Stoic philosophy. \n\nDuring his reign, the Empire defeated a revitalized Parthian Empire in the East; Marcus' general Avidius Cassius sacked the Parthian capital Ctesiphon in 164. In central Europe, Marcus fought the Marcomanni, Quadi, and Sarmatians with success during the Marcomannic Wars, although the threat of the Germanic peoples began to represent a troubling reality for the Empire. The Column and Equestrian Statue of Marcus Aurelius still stand in Rome, where they were erected in celebration of his military victories. Persecution of Christians is said to have increased during his reign. The Antonine Plague, a pandemic that broke out in 165, devastated the population of the Roman Empire and may have been the cause of death for his co-ruler Lucius. Marcus' death in 180 is seen as an end to the Pax Romana, an age of relative peace and stability for the Empire.\n\nThe major sources depicting the life and rule of Marcus are patchy and frequently unreliable. The most important group of sources, the biographies contained in the \"Historia Augusta\", claim to be written by a group of authors at the turn of the 4th century AD, but were in fact written by a single author (referred to here as \"the biographer\") from about 395 AD. The later biographies and the biographies of subordinate emperors and usurpers are unreliable, but the earlier biographies, derived primarily from now-lost earlier sources (Marius Maximus or Ignotus), are much more accurate. For Marcus' life and rule, the biographies of Hadrian, Antoninus, Marcus, and Lucius are largely reliable, but those of Aelius Verus and Avidius Cassius are not.\n\nA body of correspondence between Marcus' tutor Fronto and various Antonine officials survives in a series of patchy manuscripts, covering the period from c. 138 to 166. Marcus' own \"Meditations\" offer a window on his inner life, but are largely undateable, and make few specific references to worldly affairs. The main narrative source for the period is Cassius Dio, a Greek senator from Bithynian Nicaea who wrote a history of Rome from its founding to 229 in eighty books. Dio is vital for the military history of the period, but his senatorial prejudices and strong opposition to imperial expansion obscure his perspective.\n\nSome other literary sources provide specific details: the writings of the physician Galen on the habits of the Antonine elite, the orations of Aelius Aristides on the temper of the times, and the constitutions preserved in the \"Digest\" and \"Codex Justinianus\" on Marcus' legal work. Inscriptions and coin finds supplement the literary sources.\n\nMarcus was born in Rome on 26 April 121. His name at birth was supposedly Marcus Annius Verus, but some sources assign this name to him upon his father's death and adoption by his grandfather, upon his coming of age, or at the time of his marriage. He may have been known as Marcus Annius Catilius Severus, at birth or at some point in his youth, or Marcus Catilius Severus Annius Verus. Upon his adoption by Antoninus as heir to the throne, he was known as Marcus Aelius Aurelius Verus Caesar and, upon his ascension, he was Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus until his death; Epiphanius of Salamis, in his chronology of the Roman emperors \"On Weights and Measures\", calls him \"Marcus Aurelius Verus\".\n\nMarcus' family originated in Ucubi, a small town southeast of Córdoba in Iberian Baetica. The family rose to prominence in the late 1st century AD. Marcus Aurelius' great-grandfather Marcus Annius Verus (I) was a senator and (according to the \"Historia Augusta\") ex-praetor; in 73–74, his grandfather, Marcus Annius Verus (II), was made a patrician. Verus' elder son—Marcus Aurelius' father—Marcus Annius Verus (III) married Domitia Lucilla.\n\nLucilla was the daughter of the patrician P. Calvisius Tullus Ruso. Her mother, also Domitia Lucilla, had inherited a great fortune (described at length in one of Pliny's letters) from her maternal grandfather and her paternal grandfather by adoption. The younger Lucilla would acquire much of her mother's wealth, including a large brickworks on the outskirts of Rome—a profitable enterprise in an era when the city was experiencing a construction boom.\n\nMarcus' sister, Annia Cornificia Faustina, was probably born in 122 or 123. His father probably died in 124, during his praetorship, when Marcus was three years old. Though he can hardly have known his father, Marcus wrote in his \"Meditations\" that he had learned \"modesty and manliness\" from his memories of his father and from the man's posthumous reputation. His mother Lucilla did not remarry.\n\nLucilla, following prevailing aristocratic customs, probably did not spend much time with her son. Instead, Marcus was in the care of \"nurses\". Even so, Marcus credits his mother with teaching him \"religious piety, simplicity in diet\", and how to avoid \"the ways of the rich\". In his letters, he makes frequent and affectionate reference to her; he was grateful that, \"although she was fated to die young, yet she spent her last years with me\".\n\nAfter his father's death, Marcus was raised by his paternal grandfather Marcus Annius Verus, who had always retained the legal authority of \"patria potestas\" over his son and grandson. Technically this was not an adoption, the creation of a new and different \"patria potestas\". Lucius Catilius Severus, described as Marcus' maternal great-grandfather, also participated in his upbringing; he was probably the elder Domitia Lucilla's stepfather. Marcus was raised in his parents' home on the Caelian Hill, a district he would affectionately refer to as \"my Caelian\".\n\nIt was an upscale area, with few public buildings but many aristocratic villas. Marcus' grandfather owned a palace beside the Lateran, where he would spend much of his childhood. Marcus Aurelius thanks his grandfather for teaching him \"good character and avoidance of bad temper\". He was less fond of the mistress his grandfather took and lived with after the death of his wife, Rupilia Faustina. Marcus Aurelius was grateful that he did not have to live with her longer than he did.\n\nMarcus was educated at home, in line with contemporary aristocratic trends; he thanks Catilius Severus for encouraging him to avoid public schools. One of his teachers, Diognetus, a painting master, proved particularly influential; he seems to have introduced Marcus Aurelius to the philosophic way of life. In April 132, at the behest of Diognetus, Marcus took up the dress and habits of the philosopher: he studied while wearing a rough Greek cloak, and would sleep on the ground until his mother convinced him to sleep on a bed.\n\nA new set of tutors—Alexander of Cotiaeum, Trosius Aper, and Tuticius Proculus—took over Marcus' education in about 132 or 133. Little is known of the latter two (both teachers of Latin), but Alexander was a major littérateur, the leading Homeric scholar of his day. Marcus thanks Alexander for his training in literary styling. Alexander's influence—an emphasis on matter over style and careful wording, with the occasional Homeric quotation—has been detected in Marcus Aurelius' \"Meditations\".\n\nIn late 136, Hadrian almost died from a haemorrhage. Convalescent in his villa at Tivoli, he selected Lucius Ceionius Commodus, Marcus' intended father-in-law, as his successor and adopted son \"invitis omnibus\", \"against the wishes of everyone\". While his motives are not certain, it would appear that his goal was to eventually place the then-too-young Marcus on the throne. As part of his adoption, Commodus took the name Lucius Aelius Caesar. His health was so poor that, during a ceremony to mark his becoming heir to the throne, he was too weak to lift a large shield on his own. After a brief stationing on the Danube frontier, Aelius returned to Rome to make an address to the senate on the first day of 138. The night before the speech, however, he grew ill, and died of a haemorrhage later in the day.\n\nOn 24 January 138, Hadrian selected Aurelius Antoninus, the husband of Marcus' aunt Faustina the Elder, as his new successor. As part of Hadrian's terms, Antoninus in turn adopted Marcus and Lucius Verus, the son of Lucius Aelius. Marcus became M. Aelius Aurelius Verus, and Lucius became L. Aelius Aurelius Commodus. At Hadrian's request, Antoninus' daughter Faustina was betrothed to Lucius. Marcus reportedly greeted the news that Hadrian had become his adoptive grandfather with sadness, instead of joy. Only with reluctance did he move from his mother's house on the Caelian to Hadrian's private home.\n\nAt some time in 138, Hadrian requested in the senate that Marcus be exempt from the law barring him from becoming \"quaestor\" before his twenty-fourth birthday. The senate complied, and Marcus served under Antoninus, the consul for 139. Marcus' adoption diverted him from the typical career path of his class. If not for his adoption, he probably would have become \"triumvir monetalis\", a highly regarded post involving token administration of the state mint; after that, he could have served as tribune with a legion, becoming the legion's nominal second-in-command. Marcus probably would have opted for travel and further education instead. As it was, Marcus was set apart from his fellow citizens. Nonetheless, his biographer attests that his character remained unaffected: \"He still showed the same respect to his relations as he had when he was an ordinary citizen, and he was as thrifty and careful of his possessions as he had been when he lived in a private household.\"\n\nAfter a series of suicide attempts, all thwarted by Antoninus, Hadrian left for Baiae, a seaside resort on the Campanian coast. His condition did not improve, and he abandoned the diet prescribed by his doctors, indulging himself in food and drink. He sent for Antoninus, who was at his side when he died on 10 July 138. His remains were buried quietly at Puteoli. The succession to Antoninus was peaceful and stable: Antoninus kept Hadrian's nominees in office and appeased the senate, respecting its privileges and commuting the death sentences of men charged in Hadrian's last days. For his dutiful behavior, Antoninus was asked to accept the name \"Pius\".\n\nImmediately after Hadrian's death, Antoninus approached Marcus and requested that his marriage arrangements be amended: Marcus' betrothal to Ceionia Fabia would be annulled, and he would be betrothed to Faustina, Antoninus' daughter, instead. Faustina's betrothal to Ceionia's brother Lucius Commodus would also have to be annulled. Marcus Aurelius consented to Antoninus' proposal.\n\nAntoninus bolstered Marcus' dignity: Marcus was made consul for 140, with Antoninus as his colleague, and was appointed as a \"seviri\", one of the knights' six commanders, at the order's annual parade on 15 July 139. As the heir apparent, Marcus became \"princeps iuventutis\", head of the equestrian order. He now took the name Caesar: Marcus Aelius Aurelius Verus Caesar. Marcus would later caution himself against taking the name too seriously: \"See that you do not turn into a Caesar; do not be dipped into the purple dye—for that can happen\". At the senate's request, Marcus joined all the priestly colleges (\"pontifices\", \"augures\", \"quindecimviri sacris faciundis\", \"septemviri epulonum\", etc.); direct evidence for membership, however, is available only for the Arval Brethren.\n\nAntoninus demanded that Marcus take up residence in the House of Tiberius, the imperial palace on the Palatine. Antoninus also made him take up the habits of his new station, the \"aulicum fastigium\" or \"pomp of the court\", against Marcus' objections. Marcus would struggle to reconcile the life of the court with his philosophic yearnings. He told himself it was an attainable goal—\"Where life is possible, then it is possible to live the right life; life is possible in a palace, so it is possible to live the right life in a palace\"—but he found it difficult nonetheless. He would criticize himself in the \"Meditations\" for \"abusing court life\" in front of company.\n\nAs quaestor, Marcus would have had little real administrative work to do. He would read imperial letters to the senate when Antoninus was absent, and would do secretarial work for the senators. His duties as consul were more significant: one of two senior representatives of the senate, he would preside over meetings and take a major role in the body's administrative functions. He felt drowned in paperwork, and complained to his tutor, Fronto: \"I am so out of breath from dictating nearly thirty letters\". He was being \"fitted for ruling the state\", in the words of his biographer. He was required to make a speech to the assembled senators as well, making oratorical training essential for the job.\n\nOn 1 January 145, Marcus was made consul a second time. He might have been unwell at this time: a letter from Fronto that might have been sent at this time urges Marcus to have plenty of sleep \"so that you may come into the Senate with a good colour and read your speech with a strong voice\". Marcus had complained of an illness in an earlier letter: \"As far as my strength is concerned, I am beginning to get it back; and there is no trace of the pain in my chest. But that ulcer [...] I am having treatment and taking care not to do anything that interferes with it.\" Marcus Aurelius was never particularly healthy or strong. The Roman historian Cassius Dio, writing of his later years, praised him for behaving dutifully in spite of his various illnesses.\n\nIn April 145 AD, Marcus married Faustina, as had been planned since 138 AD. Since Marcus was, by adoption, Antoninus' son, under Roman law he was marrying his sister; Antoninus would have had to formally release one or the other from his paternal authority (his \"patria potestas\") for the ceremony to take place. Little is specifically known of the ceremony, but it is said to have been \"noteworthy\". Coins were issued with the heads of the couple, and Antoninus, as \"Pontifex Maximus\", would have officiated. Marcus makes no apparent reference to the marriage in his surviving letters, and only sparing references to Faustina.\n\nAfter taking the \"toga virilis\" in 136, Marcus probably began his training in oratory. He had three tutors in Greek, Aninus Macer, Caninius Celer, and Herodes Atticus, and one in Latin, Fronto. The latter two were the most esteemed orators of the day, but probably did not become his tutors until his adoption by Antoninus in 138. The preponderance of Greek tutors indicates the importance of the Greek language to the aristocracy of Rome. This was the age of the Second Sophistic, a renaissance in Greek letters. Although educated in Rome, in his \"Meditations\", Marcus would write his inmost thoughts in Greek.\n\nAtticus was controversial: an enormously rich Athenian (probably the richest man in the eastern half of the empire), he was quick to anger, and resented by his fellow Athenians for his patronizing manner. Atticus was an inveterate opponent of Stoicism and philosophic pretensions. He thought the Stoics' desire for a \"lack of feeling\" foolish: they would live a \"sluggish, enervated life\", he said. Marcus would become a Stoic. He would not mention Herodes at all in his \"Meditations\", in spite of the fact that they would come into contact many times over the following decades.\n\nFronto was highly esteemed: in the self-consciously antiquarian world of Latin letters, he was thought of as second only to Cicero, perhaps even an alternative to him. He did not care much for Atticus, though Marcus was eventually to put the pair on speaking terms. Fronto exercised a complete mastery of Latin, capable of tracing expressions through the literature, producing obscure synonyms, and challenging minor improprieties in word choice.\n\nA significant amount of the correspondence between Fronto and Marcus has survived. The pair were very close. \"Farewell my Fronto, wherever you are, my most sweet love and delight. How is it between you and me? I love you and you are not here.\" Marcus Aurelius spent time with Fronto's wife and daughter, both named Cratia, and they enjoyed light conversation.\n\nHe wrote Fronto a letter on his birthday, claiming to love him as he loved himself, and calling on the gods to ensure that every word he learned of literature, he would learn \"from the lips of Fronto\". His prayers for Fronto's health were more than conventional, because Fronto was frequently ill; at times, he seems to be an almost constant invalid, always suffering—about one-quarter of the surviving letters deal with the man's sicknesses. Marcus asks that Fronto's pain be inflicted on himself, \"of my own accord with every kind of discomfort\".\n\nFronto never became Marcus' full-time teacher, and continued his career as an advocate. One notorious case brought him into conflict with Atticus. Marcus pleaded with Fronto, first with \"advice\", then as a \"favour\", not to attack Atticus; he had already asked Atticus to refrain from making the first blows. Fronto replied that he was surprised to discover Marcus counted Atticus as a friend (perhaps Atticus was not yet Marcus' tutor), and allowed that Marcus might be correct, but nonetheless affirmed his intent to win the case by any means necessary: \"...the charges are frightful and must be spoken of as frightful. Those in particular which refer to the beating and robbing I will describe in such a way that they savour of gall and bile. If I happen to call him an uneducated little Greek it will not mean war to the death.\" The outcome of the trial is unknown.\n\nBy the age of twenty-five (between April 146 and April 147), Marcus had grown disaffected with his studies in jurisprudence, and showed some signs of general malaise. His master, he writes to Fronto, was an unpleasant blowhard, and had made \"a hit at\" him: \"It is easy to sit yawning next to a judge, he says, but to \"be\" a judge is noble work.\" Marcus had grown tired of his exercises, of taking positions in imaginary debates. When he criticized the insincerity of conventional language, Fronto took to defend it. In any case, Marcus' formal education was now over. He had kept his teachers on good terms, following them devotedly. It \"affected his health adversely\", his biographer writes, to have devoted so much effort to his studies. It was the only thing the biographer could find fault with in Marcus' entire boyhood.\n\nFronto had warned Marcus against the study of philosophy early on: \"It is better never to have touched the teaching of philosophy...than to have tasted it superficially, with the edge of the lips, as the saying is\". He disdained philosophy and philosophers, and looked down on Marcus' sessions with Apollonius of Chalcedon and others in this circle. Fronto put an uncharitable interpretation of Marcus' \"conversion to philosophy\": \"In the fashion of the young, tired of boring work\", Marcus had turned to philosophy to escape the constant exercises of oratorical training. Marcus kept in close touch with Fronto, but would ignore Fronto's scruples.\n\nApollonius may have introduced Marcus to Stoic philosophy, but Quintus Junius Rusticus would have the strongest influence on the boy. He was the man Fronto recognized as having \"wooed Marcus away\" from oratory. He was older than Fronto and twenty years older than Marcus. As the grandson of Arulenus Rusticus, one of the martyrs to the tyranny of Domitian (\"r\". 81–96), he was heir to the tradition of \"Stoic Opposition\" to the \"bad emperors\" of the 1st century; the true successor of Seneca (as opposed to Fronto, the false one). Marcus thanks Rusticus for teaching him \"not to be led astray into enthusiasm for rhetoric, for writing on speculative themes, for discoursing on moralizing texts... To avoid oratory, poetry, and 'fine writing.'\"\n\nOn November 30, 147, Faustina gave birth to a girl named Domitia Faustina. She was the first of at least thirteen children (including two sets of twins) that Faustina would bear over the next twenty-three years. The next day, 1 December, Antoninus gave Marcus the tribunician power and the \"imperium\"—authority over the armies and provinces of the emperor. As tribune, he had the right to bring one measure before the senate after the four Antoninus could introduce. His tribunican powers would be renewed with Antoninus' on 10 December 147.\n\nThe first mention of Domitia in Marcus' letters reveals her as a sickly infant. \"Caesar to Fronto. If the gods are willing we seem to have a hope of recovery. The diarrhea has stopped, the little attacks of fever have been driven away. But the emaciation is still extreme and there is still quite a bit of coughing.\" He and Faustina, Marcus wrote, had been \"pretty occupied\" with the girl's care. Domitia would die in 151.\n\nIn 149, Faustina gave birth again, to twin sons. Contemporary coinage commemorates the event, with crossed cornucopiae beneath portrait busts of the two small boys, and the legend \"temporum felicitas\", \"the happiness of the times\". They did not survive long. Before the end of the year, another family coin was issued: it shows only a tiny girl, Domitia Faustina, and one boy baby. Then another: the girl alone. The infants were buried in the Mausoleum of Hadrian, where their epitaphs survive. They were called Titus Aurelius Antoninus and Tiberius Aelius Aurelius.\n\nMarcus steadied himself: \"One man prays: 'How I may not lose my little child', but you must pray: 'How I may not be afraid to lose him'.\" He quoted from the \"Iliad\" what he called the \"briefest and most familiar saying...enough to dispel sorrow and fear\":<poem> leaves,\nthe wind scatters some on the face of the ground;\nlike unto them are the children of men.</poem>\n– \"Iliad\" vi.146\n\nAnother daughter was born on 7 March 150, Annia Aurelia Galeria Lucilla. At some time between 155 and 161, probably soon after 155, Marcus' mother Domitia Lucilla died. Faustina probably had another daughter in 151, but the child, Annia Galeria Aurelia Faustina, might not have been born until 153. Another son, Tiberius Aelius Antoninus, was born in 152. A coin issue celebrates \"fecunditati Augustae\", \"the Augusta's fertility\", depicting two girls and an infant. The boy did not survive long; on coins from 156, only the two girls were depicted. He might have died in 152, the same year as Marcus' sister Cornificia.\n\nBy 28 March 158, when Marcus replied, another of his children was dead. Marcus Aurelius thanked the temple synod, \"even though this turned out otherwise\". The child's name is unknown. In 159 and 160, Faustina gave birth to daughters: Fadilla and Cornificia, named respectively after Faustina's and Marcus' dead sisters.\n\nLucius started his political career as a quaestor in 153. He was consul in 154, and was consul again with Marcus in 161. Lucius had no other titles, except that of \"son of Augustus\". Lucius had a markedly different personality from Marcus: he enjoyed sports of all kinds, but especially hunting and wrestling; he took obvious pleasure in the circus games and gladiatorial fights. He did not marry until 164.\n\nIn 156, Antoninus turned 70. He found it difficult to keep himself upright without stays. He started nibbling on dry bread to give him the strength to stay awake through his morning receptions. As Antoninus aged, Marcus would take on more administrative duties, more still when he became the praetorian prefect (an office that was as much secretarial as military) as Gavius Maximus died in 156 or 157. In 160, Marcus and Lucius were designated joint consuls for the following year. Antoninus may have already been ill.\n\nTwo days before his death, the biographer reports, Antoninus was at his ancestral estate at Lorium, in Etruria, about 19 kilometres (12 mi) from Rome. He ate Alpine cheese at dinner quite greedily. In the night he vomited; he had a fever the next day. The day after that, 7 March 161, he summoned the imperial council, and passed the state and his daughter to Marcus. The emperor gave the keynote to his life in the last word that he uttered when the tribune of the night-watch came to ask the password—\"aequanimitas\" (equanimity). He then turned over, as if going to sleep, and died. His death closed out the longest reign since Augustus, surpassing Tiberius by a couple of months.\n\nAfter Antoninus died in 161, Marcus was effectively sole ruler of the Empire. The formalities of the position would follow. The senate would soon grant him the name Augustus and the title \"imperator\", and he would soon be formally elected as \"Pontifex Maximus\", chief priest of the official cults. Marcus made some show of resistance: the biographer writes that he was \"compelled\" to take imperial power. This may have been a genuine \"horror imperii\", \"fear of imperial power\". Marcus Aurelius, with his preference for the philosophic life, found the imperial office unappealing. His training as a Stoic, however, had made the choice clear that it was his duty.\n\nAlthough Marcus showed no personal affection for Hadrian (significantly, he does not thank him in the first book of his \"Meditations\"), he presumably believed it his duty to enact the man's succession plans. Thus, although the senate planned to confirm Marcus Aurelius alone, he refused to take office unless Lucius received equal powers. The senate accepted, granting Lucius the \"imperium\", the tribunician power, and the name Augustus. Marcus became, in official titulature, Imperator Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus; Lucius, forgoing his name Commodus and taking Marcus' family name, Verus, became Imperator Caesar Lucius Aurelius Verus Augustus. It was the first time that Rome was ruled by two emperors.\n\nIn spite of their nominal equality, Marcus held more \"auctoritas\", or \"authority\", than Lucius. He had been consul once more than Lucius, he had shared in Antoninus' administration, and he alone was \"Pontifex Maximus\". It would have been clear to the public which emperor was the more senior. As the biographer wrote, \"Verus obeyed Marcus...as a lieutenant obeys a proconsul or a governor obeys the emperor.\"\n\nImmediately after their senate confirmation, the emperors proceeded to the Castra Praetoria, the camp of the Praetorian Guard. Lucius addressed the assembled troops, which then acclaimed the pair as \"imperatores\". Then, like every new emperor since Claudius, Lucius promised the troops a special donative. This donative, however, was twice the size of those past: 20,000 sesterces (5,000 denarii) per capita, with more to officers. In return for this bounty, equivalent to several years' pay, the troops swore an oath to protect the emperors. The ceremony was perhaps not entirely necessary, given that Marcus' accession had been peaceful and unopposed, but it was good insurance against later military troubles.\n\nUpon his accession he also devalued the Roman currency. He decreased the silver purity of the denarius from 83.5% to 79%—the silver weight dropping from 2.68 grams to 2.57 grams.\n\nAntoninus' funeral ceremonies were, in the words of the biographer, \"elaborate\". If his funeral followed those of his predecessors, his body would have been incinerated on a pyre at the Campus Martius, and his spirit would have been seen as ascending to the gods' home in the heavens. Marcus and Lucius nominated their father for deification. In contrast to their behavior during Antoninus' campaign to deify Hadrian, the senate did not oppose the emperors' wishes. A \"flamen\", or cultic priest, was appointed to minister the cult of the deified Antoninus, now \"Divus Antoninus\". Antoninus' remains were laid to rest in Hadrian's mausoleum, beside the remains of Marcus' children and of Hadrian himself. The temple he had dedicated to his wife, Diva Faustina, became the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina. It survives as the church of San Lorenzo in Miranda.\n\nIn accordance with his will, Antoninus' fortune passed on to Faustina. (Marcus had little need of his wife's fortune. Indeed, at his accession, Marcus transferred part of his mother's estate to his nephew, Ummius Quadratus.) Faustina was three months pregnant at her husband's accession. During the pregnancy she dreamed of giving birth to two serpents, one fiercer than the other. On 31 August she gave birth at Lanuvium to twins: T. Aurelius Fulvus Antoninus and Lucius Aurelius Commodus. Aside from the fact that the twins shared Caligula's birthday, the omens were favorable, and the astrologers drew positive horoscopes for the children. The births were celebrated on the imperial coinage.\n\nSoon after the emperors' accession, Marcus' eleven-year-old daughter, Annia Lucilla, was betrothed to Lucius (in spite of the fact that he was, formally, her uncle). At the ceremonies commemorating the event, new provisions were made for the support of poor children, along the lines of earlier imperial foundations. Marcus and Lucius proved popular with the people of Rome, who strongly approved of their \"civiliter\" (\"lacking pomp\") behavior. The emperors permitted free speech, evidenced by the fact that the comedy writer Marullus was able to criticize them without suffering retribution. As the biographer wrote, \"No one missed the lenient ways of Pius.\"\n\nMarcus replaced a number of the empire's major officials. The \"ab epistulis\" Sextus Caecilius Crescens Volusianus, in charge of the imperial correspondence, was replaced with Titus Varius Clemens. Clemens was from the frontier province of Pannonia and had served in the war in Mauretania. Recently, he had served as procurator of five provinces. He was a man suited for a time of military crisis. Lucius Volusius Maecianus, Marcus ' former tutor, had been prefectural governor of Egypt at Marcus' accession. Maecianus was recalled, made senator, and appointed prefect of the treasury (\"aerarium Saturni\"). He was made consul soon after. Fronto's son-in-law, Gaius Aufidius Victorinus, was appointed governor of Germania Superior.\n\nFronto returned to his Roman townhouse at dawn on 28 March, having left his home in Cirta as soon as news of his pupils' accession reached him. He sent a note to the imperial freedman Charilas, asking if he could call on the emperors. Fronto would later explain that he had not dared to write the emperors directly. The tutor was immensely proud of his students. Reflecting on the speech he had written on taking his consulship in 143, when he had praised the young Marcus, Fronto was ebullient: \"There was then an outstanding natural ability in you; there is now perfected excellence. There was then a crop of growing corn; there is now a ripe, gathered harvest. What I was hoping for then, I have now. The hope has become a reality.\" Fronto called on Marcus Aurelius alone; neither thought to invite Lucius.\n\nLucius was less esteemed by Fronto than his brother, as his interests were on a lower level. Lucius asked Fronto to adjudicate in a dispute he and his friend Calpurnius were having on the relative merits of two actors. Marcus told Fronto of his reading—Coelius and a little Cicero—and his family. His daughters were in Rome with their great-great-aunt Matidia; Marcus thought the evening air of the country was too cold for them. He asked Fronto for \"some particularly eloquent reading matter, something of your own, or Cato, or Cicero, or Sallust or Gracchus—or some poet, for I need distraction, especially in this kind of way, by reading something that will uplift and diffuse my pressing anxieties.\"\n\nMarcus' early reign proceeded smoothly; he was able to give himself wholly to philosophy and the pursuit of popular affection. Soon, however, he would find he had many anxieties. It would mean the end of the \"felicitas temporum\" (\"happy times\") that the coinage of 161 had proclaimed.\n\nIn the spring of 162, the Tiber overflowed its banks, flooding much of Rome. It drowned many animals, leaving the city in famine. Marcus and Lucius gave the crisis their personal attention. In other times of famine, the emperors are said to have provided for the Italian communities out of the Roman granaries.\n\nFronto's letters continued through Marcus' early reign. Fronto felt that, because of Marcus' prominence and public duties, lessons were more important now than they had ever been before. He believed Marcus was \"beginning to feel the wish to be eloquent once more, in spite of having for a time lost interest in eloquence\". Fronto would again remind his pupil of the tension between his role and his philosophic pretensions: \"Suppose, Caesar, that you can attain to the wisdom of Cleanthes and Zeno, yet, against your will, not the philosopher's woolen cape.\"\n\nThe early days of Marcus' reign were the happiest of Fronto's life: Marcus was beloved by the people of Rome, an excellent emperor, a fond pupil, and, perhaps most importantly, as eloquent as could be wished. Marcus had displayed rhetorical skill in his speech to the senate after an earthquake at Cyzicus. It had conveyed the drama of the disaster, and the senate had been awed: \"Not more suddenly or violently was the city stirred by the earthquake than the minds of your hearers by your speech.\" Fronto was hugely pleased.\n\nOn his deathbed, Antoninus Pius spoke of nothing but the state and the foreign kings who had wronged him. One of those kings, Vologases IV of Parthia, made his move in late summer or early autumn 161. Vologases entered the Kingdom of Armenia (then a Roman client state), expelled its king and installed his own—Pacorus, an Arsacid like himself. The governor of Cappadocia, the frontline in all Armenian conflicts, was Marcus Sedatius Severianus, a Gaul with much experience in military matters.\n\nConvinced by the prophet Alexander of Abonutichus that he could defeat the Parthians easily and win glory for himself, Severianus led a legion (perhaps the IX Hispana) into Armenia, but was trapped by the great Parthian general Chosrhoes at Elegia, a town just beyond the Cappadocian frontiers, high up past the headwaters of the Euphrates. After Severianus made some unsuccessful efforts to engage Chosrhoes, he committed suicide, and his legion was massacred. The campaign had lasted only three days.\n\nThere was threat of war on other frontiers as well—in Britain, and in Raetia and Upper Germany, where the Chatti of the Taunus mountains had recently crossed over the \"limes\". Marcus was unprepared. Antoninus seems to have given him no military experience; the biographer writes that Marcus spent the whole of Antoninus' twenty-three-year reign at his emperor's side and not in the provinces, where most previous emperors had spent their early careers.\n\nMore bad news arrived: the Syrian governor's army had been defeated by the Parthians, and retreated in disarray. Reinforcements were dispatched for the Parthian frontier. P. Julius Geminius Marcianus, an African senator commanding X Gemina at Vindobona (Vienna), left for Cappadocia with detachments from the Danubian legions. Three full legions were also sent east: I Minervia from Bonn in Upper Germany, II Adiutrix from Aquincum, and V Macedonica from Troesmis.\n\nThe northern frontiers were strategically weakened; frontier governors were told to avoid conflict wherever possible. M. Annius Libo, Marcus' first cousin, was sent to replace the Syrian governor. His first consulship was in 161, so he was probably in his early thirties, and, as a patrician, he lacked military experience. Marcus had chosen a reliable man rather than a talented one.\n\nMarcus took a four-day public holiday at Alsium, a resort town on the coast of Etruria. He was too anxious to relax. Writing to Fronto, he declared that he would not speak about his holiday. Fronto replied: \"What? Do I not know that you went to Alsium with the intention of devoting yourself to games, joking, and complete leisure for four whole days?\" He encouraged Marcus to rest, calling on the example of his predecessors (Antoninus had enjoyed exercise in the \"palaestra\", fishing, and comedy), going so far as to write up a fable about the gods' division of the day between morning and evening—Marcus Aurelius had apparently been spending most of his evenings on judicial matters instead of at leisure. Marcus could not take Fronto's advice. \"I have duties hanging over me that can hardly be begged off,\" he wrote back. Marcus Aurelius put on Fronto's voice to chastise himself: \"'Much good has my advice done you', you will say!\" He had rested, and would rest often, but \"—this devotion to duty! Who knows better than you how demanding it is!\"\nFronto sent Marcus a selection of reading material, and, to settle his unease over the course of the Parthian war, a long and considered letter, full of historical references. In modern editions of Fronto's works, it is labeled \"De bello Parthico\" (\"On the Parthian War\"). There had been reverses in Rome's past, Fronto writes, but, in the end, Romans had always prevailed over their enemies: \"Always and everywhere [Mars] has changed our troubles into successes and our terrors into triumphs.\"\n\nOver the winter of 161–162, news that a rebellion was brewing in Syria arrived and it was decided that Lucius should direct the Parthian war in person. He was stronger and healthier than Marcus, the argument went, and thus more suited to military activity. Lucius' biographer suggests ulterior motives: to restrain Lucius' debaucheries, to make him thrifty, to reform his morals by the terror of war, and to realize that he was an emperor. Whatever the case, the senate gave its assent, and, in the summer of 162, Lucius left. Marcus would remain in Rome, as the city \"demanded the presence of an emperor\".\n\nLucius spent most of the campaign in Antioch, though he wintered at Laodicea and summered at Daphne, a resort just outside Antioch. Critics declaimed Lucius' luxurious lifestyle. He had taken to gambling, they said; he would \"dice the whole night through\". He enjoyed the company of actors. Libo died early in the war; perhaps Lucius had murdered him.\n\nIn the middle of the war, perhaps in autumn 163 or early 164, Lucius made a trip to Ephesus to be married to Marcus' daughter Lucilla. Marcus moved up the date; perhaps he had already heard of Lucius' mistress Panthea. Lucilla's thirteenth birthday was in March 163; whatever the date of her marriage, she was not yet fifteen. Lucilla was accompanied by her mother Faustina and Verus' uncle (his father's half-brother) M. Vettulenus Civica Barbarus, who was made \"comes Augusti\", \"companion of the emperors\". Marcus may have wanted Civica to watch over Verus, the job Libo had failed at. Marcus may have planned to accompany them all the way to Smyrna (the biographer says he told the senate he would), but this did not happen. He only accompanied the group as far as Brundisium, where they boarded a ship for the east. He returned to Rome immediately thereafter, and sent out special instructions to his proconsuls not to give the group any official reception.\n\nThe Armenian capital Artaxata was captured in 163. At the end of the year, Lucius took the title \"Armeniacus\", despite having never seen combat; Marcus declined to accept the title until the following year. When Lucius was hailed as \"imperator\" again, however, Marcus did not hesitate to take the \"Imperator II\" with him.\n\nOccupied Armenia was reconstructed on Roman terms. In 164, a new capital, Kaine Polis ('New City'), replaced Artaxata. A new king was installed: a Roman senator of consular rank and Arsacid descent, Gaius Julius Sohaemus. He may not even have been crowned in Armenia; the ceremony may have taken place in Antioch, or even Ephesus. Sohaemus was hailed on the imperial coinage of 164 under the legend : Lucius sat on a throne with his staff while Sohaemus stood before him, saluting the emperor.\n\nIn 163, the Parthians intervened in Osroene, a Roman client in upper Mesopotamia centered on Edessa, and installed their own king on its throne. In response, Roman forces were moved downstream, to cross the Euphrates at a more southerly point. Before the end of 163, however, Roman forces had moved north to occupy Dausara and Nicephorium on the northern, Parthian bank. Soon after the conquest of the north bank of the Euphrates, other Roman forces moved on Osroene from Armenia, taking Anthemusia, a town southwest of Edessa.\n\nIn 165, Roman forces moved on Mesopotamia. Edessa was re-occupied, and Mannus, the king deposed by the Parthians, was re-installed. The Parthians retreated to Nisibis, but this too was besieged and captured. The Parthian army dispersed in the Tigris. A second force, under Avidius Cassius and the III Gallica, moved down the Euphrates, and fought a major battle at Dura.\n\nBy the end of the year, Cassius' army had reached the twin metropolises of Mesopotamia: Seleucia on the right bank of the Tigris and Ctesiphon on the left. Ctesiphon was taken and its royal palace set to flame. The citizens of Seleucia, still largely Greek (the city had been commissioned and settled as a capital of the Seleucid Empire, one of Alexander the Great's successor kingdoms), opened its gates to the invaders. The city was sacked nonetheless, leaving a black mark on Lucius' reputation. Excuses were sought, or invented: the official version had it that the Seleucids broke faith first.\n\nCassius' army, although suffering from a shortage of supplies and the effects of a plague contracted in Seleucia, made it back to Roman territory safely. Lucius took the title Parthicus Maximus, and he and Marcus were hailed as \"imperatores\" again, earning the title 'imp. III'. Cassius' army returned to the field in 166, crossing over the Tigris into Media. Lucius took the title 'Medicus', and the emperors were again hailed as \"imperatores\", becoming 'imp. IV' in imperial titulature. Marcus took the Parthicus Maximus now, after another tactful delay.\n\nDuring the early 160s, Fronto's son-in-law Victorinus was stationed as a legate in Germany. He was there with his wife and children (another child had stayed with Fronto and his wife in Rome). The condition on the northern frontier looked grave. A frontier post had been destroyed, and it looked like all the peoples of central and northern Europe were in turmoil. There was corruption among the officers: Victorinus had to ask for the resignation of a legionary legate who was taking bribes.\n\nExperienced governors had been replaced by friends and relatives of the imperial family. Lucius Dasumius Tullius Tuscus, a distant relative of Hadrian, was in Upper Pannonia, succeeding the experienced Marcus Nonius Macrinus. Lower Pannonia was under the obscure Tiberius Haterius Saturnius. Marcus Servilius Fabianus Maximus was shuffled from Lower Moesia to Upper Moesia when Marcus Iallius Bassus had joined Lucius in Antioch. Lower Moesia was filled by Pontius Laelianus' son. The Dacias were still divided in three, governed by a praetorian senator and two procurators. The peace could not hold long; Lower Pannonia did not even have a legion.\n\nStarting in the 160s, Germanic tribes and other nomadic people launched raids along the northern border, particularly into Gaul and across the Danube. This new impetus westwards was probably due to attacks from tribes further east. A first invasion of the Chatti in the province of Germania Superior was repulsed in 162.\n\nFar more dangerous was the invasion of 166, when the Marcomanni of Bohemia, clients of the Roman Empire since 19 AD, crossed the Danube together with the Lombards and other Germanic tribes. Soon thereafter, the Iranian Sarmatians attacked between the Danube and the Theiss rivers.\n\nThe Costoboci, coming from the Carpathian area, invaded Moesia, Macedonia, and Greece. After a long struggle, Marcus Aurelius managed to push back the invaders. Numerous members of Germanic tribes settled in frontier regions like Dacia, Pannonia, Germany, and Italy itself. This was not a new thing, but this time the numbers of settlers required the creation of two new frontier provinces on the left shore of the Danube, Sarmatia and Marcomannia, including today's Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary. Some Germanic tribes who settled in Ravenna revolted and managed to seize possession of the city. For this reason, Marcus Aurelius decided not only against bringing more barbarians into Italy, but even banished those who had previously been brought there.\n\nLike many emperors, Marcus spent most of his time addressing matters of law such as petitions and hearing disputes, but unlike many of his predecessors, he was already proficient in imperial administration when he assumed power. He took great care in the theory and practice of legislation. Professional jurists called him \"an emperor most skilled in the law\" and \"a most prudent and conscientiously just emperor\". He showed marked interest in three areas of the law: the manumission of slaves, the guardianship of orphans and minors, and the choice of city councillors (\"decuriones\").\n\nMarcus showed a great deal of respect to the Roman Senate and routinely asked them for permission to spend money even though he did not need to do so as the absolute ruler of the Empire. In one speech, Marcus himself reminded the Senate that the imperial palace where he lived was not truly his possession but theirs.\n\nIn 168, he revalued the denarius, increasing the silver purity from 79% to 82%—the actual silver weight increasing from 2.57 grams to 2.67 grams. However, two years later he reverted to the previous values because of the military crises facing the empire.\n\nA possible contact with Han China occurred in 166 when a Roman traveller visited the Han court, claiming to be an ambassador representing a certain Andun (Chinese: 安敦), ruler of Daqin, who can be identified either with Marcus or his predecessor Antoninus. In addition to Republican-era Roman glasswares found at Guangzhou along the South China Sea, Roman golden medallions made during the reign of Antoninus and perhaps even Marcus have been found at Óc Eo, Vietnam, then part of the Kingdom of Funan near the Chinese province of Jiaozhi (in northern Vietnam). This may have been the port city of Kattigara, described by Ptolemy (c. 150) as being visited by a Greek sailor named Alexander and laying beyond the Golden Chersonese (i.e. Malay Peninsula). Roman coins from the reigns of Tiberius to Aurelian have been found in Xi'an, China (site of the Han capital Chang'an), although the far greater amount of Roman coins in India suggests the Roman maritime trade for purchasing Chinese silk was centered there, not in China or even the overland Silk Road running through Persia.\n\nWhen Lucius' army returned from the war with Parthia, it brought with it plague. Cases of \"Antonine Plague\", also known as \"the Plague of Galen\", occurred throughout the Empire for years. The pandemic is believed to have been either smallpox or measles, but the true cause remains undetermined. The epidemic may have claimed the life of Lucius, who died in 169. The disease broke out again nine years later, according to the Roman historian Dio Cassius, causing up to 2,000 deaths a day in Rome, one-quarter of those who were affected, giving the disease a mortality rate of about 25%. The total deaths have been estimated at five million, and the disease killed as much as one-third of the population in some areas and devastated the Roman army.\n\nMarcus died on 17 March 180 due to natural causes in the city of Vindobona (modern Vienna). He was immediately deified and his ashes were returned to Rome, where they rested in Hadrian's mausoleum (modern Castel Sant'Angelo) until the Visigoth sack of the city in 410. His campaigns against Germans and Sarmatians were also commemorated by a column and a temple built in Rome. Some scholars consider his death to be the end of the Pax Romana.\n\nHe was succeeded by his son Commodus, whom he had named Caesar in 166 and with whom he had jointly ruled since 177. Biological sons of the emperor, if there were any, were considered heirs; however, it was only the second time that a \"non-adoptive\" son had succeeded his father, the only other having been a century earlier when Vespasian was succeeded by his son Titus. Historians have criticized the decision, citing Commodus' erratic behavior and lack of political and military acumen. At the end of his history of Marcus' reign, Cassius Dio wrote an encomium to the emperor, and described the transition to Commodus in his own lifetime with sorrow:\n\n...[Marcus] did not meet with the good fortune that he deserved, for he was not strong in body and was involved in a multitude of troubles throughout practically his entire reign. But for my part, I admire him all the more for this very reason, that amid unusual and extraordinary difficulties he both survived himself and preserved the empire. Just one thing prevented him from being completely happy, namely, that after rearing and educating his son in the best possible way he was vastly disappointed in him. This matter must be our next topic; for our history now descends from a kingdom of gold to one of iron and rust, as affairs did for the Romans of that day.\n\nDio adds that from Marcus' first days as counsellor to Antoninius to his final days as emperor of Rome, \"he remained the same [person] and did not change in the least.\" \n\nMichael Grant, in \"The Climax of Rome\", writes of Commodus:\n\nThe youth turned out to be very erratic, or at least so anti-traditional that disaster was inevitable. But whether or not Marcus ought to have known this to be so, the rejections of his son's claims in favour of someone else would almost certainly have involved one of the civil wars which were to proliferate so disastrously around future successions.\n\nMarcus acquired the reputation of a philosopher king within his lifetime, and the title would remain his after death; both Dio and the biographer call him \"the philosopher\". Christians such as Justin Martyr, Athenagoras, and Melito also gave him the title. The last named went so far as to call him \"more philanthropic and philosophic\" than Antoninus and Hadrian, and set him against the persecuting emperors Domitian and Nero to make the contrast bolder. \"Alone of the emperors,\" wrote the historian Herodian, \"he gave proof of his learning not by mere words or knowledge of philosophical doctrines but by his blameless character and temperate way of life.\" Iain King concludes that Marcus' legacy is tragic, because the emperor's \"Stoic philosophy—which is about self-restraint, duty, and respect for others—was so abjectly abandoned by the imperial line he anointed on his death\".\n\nIn the first two centuries of the Christian era, it was local Roman officials who were largely responsible for the persecution of Christians. In the second century, the emperors treated Christianity as a local problem to be dealt with by their subordinates. The number and severity of persecutions of Christians in various locations of the empire seemingly increased during the reign of Marcus. The extent to which Marcus himself directed, encouraged, or was aware of these persecutions is unclear and much debated by historians. According to Edward Gibbon, with the onset of the Germanic war, his treatment of the Christians degraded with increased persecutions uncharacteristic of the previous years of his reign and those of his predecessors.\n\nMarcus married his first cousin Faustina in 145. During their 30-year marriage, they had at least 13 children, including two sets of twins. One son and four daughters outlived their father:\n\nWhile on campaign between 170 and 180, Marcus wrote his \"Meditations\" in Greek as a source for his own guidance and self-improvement. The original title of this work, if it had one, is unknown. \"Meditations\"–as well as other titles including \"To Himself\"–were adopted later. He had a logical mind and his notes were representative of Stoic philosophy and spirituality. \"Meditations\" is still revered as a literary monument to a government of service and duty. According to Hays, the book was a favourite of Christina of Sweden, Frederick the Great, John Stuart Mill, Matthew Arnold, and Goethe, and is admired by modern figures such as Wen Jiabao and Bill Clinton. It has been considered by many commentators to be one of the greatest works of philosophy.\n\nIt is not known how widely Marcus' writings were circulated after his death. There are stray references in the ancient literature to the popularity of his precepts, and Julian the Apostate was well aware of his reputation as a philosopher, though he does not specifically mention \"Meditations\". It survived in the scholarly traditions of the Eastern Church and the first surviving quotes of the book, as well as the first known reference of it by name (\"Marcus' writings to himself\") are from Arethas of Caesarea in the 10th century and in the Byzantine Suda (perhaps inserted by Arethas himself). It was first published in 1558 in Zurich by Wilhelm Xylander (ne Holzmann), from a manuscript reportedly lost shortly afterwards. The oldest surviving complete manuscript copy is in the Vatican library and dates to the 14th century.\n\nThe Equestrian Statue of Marcus Aurelius in Rome is the only Roman equestrian statue which has survived into the modern period. This is perhaps due to it being wrongly identified during the Middle Ages as a depiction of the Christian emperor Constantine the Great and hence was spared destruction, unlike some other statues associated with paganism. Crafted of bronze in circa 175 AD, it stands and is now located in the Capitoline Museums of Rome. The emperor's hand is outstretched in an act of clemency offered to a bested enemy, while his weary facial expression due to the stress of leading Rome into nearly constant battles perhaps represents a break with the classical tradition of sculpture.\n\nThe victory column of Marcus Aurelius, established in Rome either in his last few years of life or after his reign and completed in 193 AD, was built to commemorate his victory over the Sarmatians and Germanic tribes in 176 AD. A spiral of carved reliefs wraps around the column, showing scenes from his military campaigns. A statue of Marcus had stood atop the column but disappeared during the Middle Ages. It was replaced with a statue of Saint Paul, in 1589 by pope Sixtus V. The columns of Marcus Aurelius and Trajan are often compared by scholars given how they are both Doric in style, had a pedestal at the base, had sculpted friezes depicting their respective military victories, and a statue on top.\n\nAll citations to the \"Historia Augusta\" are to individual biographies, and are marked with a \"HA\". Citations to the works of Fronto are cross-referenced to C.R. Haines' Loeb edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "18157111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18157111", "title": "Mark Gayn", "text": "Mark Gayn\n\nMark Gayn (\"né\" Mark Julius Ginsbourg; 21 April 1909–17 December 1981) was an American and Canadian journalist, who worked for \"The Toronto Star\" for 30 years.\n\nMark Julius Ginsbourg was born in 1909 in Barim, Manchuria, in the Qing Empire (today Balin [], Yakeshi in Inner Mongolia, China) to Russian-Jewish parents who had migrated from the Russian Empire. He went to school in Vladivostok in the Soviet Union and then in Shanghai, China. He was accepted to Pomona College in Claremont, California, in the United States where he majored in political science. Following his graduation from Pomona, he entered the School of Journalism at Columbia University, graduating in 1934.\n\nGinsbourg got into his career in the 1930s as a stringer (journalism) for \"Washington Post\" in the Shanghai. He returned to the U.S. shortly after World War II broke out in Europe, changing his name to Gayn to prevent Japanese reprisals against his brother Sam, who remained in Japanese-occupied Shanghai. Gayn also went on to write for \"Collier's\" and was arrested in the FBI raid on the offices of the Institute for Pacific Relations' \"Amerasia\" office in June 1945.\n\nHowever, the charges were dropped shortly thereafter—the \"New York Times\" described him as \"quickly vindicated in the courts.\" The State Department refused to admit his Hungarian-born wife Suzanne Lengvary to the United States, on the grounds of her alleged Communist sympathies, so he moved to Canada and continued his work as a foreign affairs correspondent.\n\nHe filed reports on North Korean dictator Kim Il Sung's repression and, as one of the first Western journalists admitted into China in the mid-1960s, he managed to criticize the country's Maoist regimentation.\n\nWithin the U.S., Gayn's work appeared within the \"New York Times\" as well as in \"Newsweek\" and in \"Time\" magazine.\n\nAt the time of his death from cancer on December 17, 1981, Gayn was still the senior foreign affairs correspondent for the \"Toronto Star\" in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nDuring his life, Mark Gayn wrote four books: \"The Fight for the Pacific\" published in 1942, \"Journey From the East: An Autobiography\" published in 1944, \"Japan Diary\" published in 1948 and republished in 1989 and \"New Japan Diary\" which was published after his death in December 1981.\n\nThe Mark Gayn Papers—covering his 50 years as a journalist—were given to the Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library at the University of Toronto before his death in 1981.\n"}
{"id": "358965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358965", "title": "Muezzin", "text": "Muezzin\n\nA muezzin (; from , ) is the person appointed at a mosque to lead and recite the call to prayer for every event of prayer and worship in the mosque. The mu'addhin's post is an important one, and the community depends on him for an accurate prayer schedule.\n\nThe professional mu'addhin is chosen for his good character, voice and skills to serve at the mosque. However, the mu'addhin is not considered a cleric, but in a position comparable to a Christian verger. When calling to prayer, the mu'addhin faces the qiblah, the direction of the Ka'bah in Makkah, while reciting the \"adhan\".\n\nThe call of the mu'addhin is considered an art form, reflected in the melodious chanting of the adhan. In Turkey, there is an annual competition to find the country's best mu'addhin.\n\nHistorically, a mu'addhin would have recited the call to prayer atop the minarets in order to be heard by those around the mosque. Now, mosques often have loudspeakers mounted on the top of the minaret and the mu'addhin will use a microphone, or the mu'addhin recording is played, allowing the call to prayer to be heard at great distances without climbing the minaret.\n\nThe institution of the mu'addhin has existed since the time of Muhammad. The first mu'addhin was Bilal ibn Ribah, who walked the streets to call the believers to come to prayer. Although many of the customs associated with the mu'addhin remained undecided at the time of Muhammad's death, including which direction one should choose for the calling, where it should be performed, and the use of trumpets, flags or lamps, all of these are elements of the mu'addhin's role during the adhan.\n\nAfter minarets became customary at mosques, the office of mu'addhin in cities was sometimes given to a blind man, who could not see down into the inner courtyards of the citizens' houses and thus could not violate privacy. Whether factual or not, the blindness of mu'addhin is claimed as almost universal at certain periods by Jose Saramago in his novel concerning historical epistemology, The History of the Siege of Lisbon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42267433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42267433", "title": "Multana Singh", "text": "Multana Singh\n\nShahzada Multana Singh Bahadur (1819 - 1846) was the fifth son of Ranjit Singh, Maharaja of Sikh Empire.\n\nMultana Singh’s mother was Maharani Ratan Kaur, but he was said to be the son of a Muslim slave girl in the household of Mai Nakkain, by an attendant in the harem. He was procured by Ratan Kaur and presented to and accepted by Ranjit Singh as her son.\n\nHe died in 1846.\n"}
{"id": "36453396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36453396", "title": "Niguma", "text": "Niguma\n\nNiguma is considered one of the most important and influential yoginis and Vajrayana teachers of the 10th or 11th century in India. She was a dakini, and one of the two female founders of the Shangpa Kagyu school of Vajrayana Buddhism, along with dakini Sukhasiddhi. Her birth name was Shrijnana (or Palgyi Yéshé in Tibetan). Like many of the mahasiddhas and Tantric practitioners of the time, Niguma was known by several names both during her lifetime and afterwards. She was called Yogini Vimalashri, or Vajradhara Niguma, or Jñana (wisdom) Dakini Adorned with Bone (ornaments), or The Sister referring to her purported relationship to the great Buddhist teacher and adept Naropa. She was also sometimes called Nigupta, which is explained by the historical Buddhist scholar Taranatha as follows: \"The name Nigu accords with the Indian language, which is Nigupta, and is said to mean 'truly secret' or 'truly hidden.' In fact, it is the code-language of the dakinis of timeless awareness.\"\n\nThere is often confusion between the biographical details of Niguma's life and spiritual accomplishments and that of the renowned Vajrayana teacher and mahasiddha Naropa. While the biographical information for Niguma is scarce, what is available often offers details that are identical with the biography of Naropa. While not much can be confirmed about the historical details of Niguma's life, what does remain is the corpus of her teachings and her impact on the founding of the Shangpa Kagyu Buddhist spiritual lineage, known as one of the \"“Eight Great Chariots of the Practice Lineages” (Wylie, \"sgrub brgyud shing rta chen po brgyad\"), meaning one of the eight great Buddhist spiritual traditions that eventually were transmitted from India to Tibet . The importance of the dakini Niguma as a spiritual practitioner, teacher, and lineage founder continues to the present day.\n\nAs secret, or hidden, as her name implies, there are only a few facts known about Niguma's life. This may partially be because of genuine lack of sources from both India and Tibet as well as the nature of the dakini. One author offers this explanation: \n\nWhat most sources agree upon is that Niguma was born into a rich Brahmin family in the town (or monastery) of Peme in Kashmir in the 10th or 11th century. Her father was named Santivarman (Tib.: \"Zhi ba’i go cha\") and her mother was called Shrimati (Tib.: \"dPal gyi blo gros ma\"). According to different sources, Niguma was either the sister or consort of Naropa. Her family relationship with Naropa is not entirely clear from the existing sources. One scholar who has done extensive research presents and discusses the available evidence and concludes that Niguma was indeed Naropa's older sister, not his wife or consort.\n\nNiguma was considered an emanation of the great dakini Mandarava, Guru Rinpoche's foremost Indian disciple.\n\nThere is almost no information about Niguma's teachers in the extant sources. As one scholar writes: \n\nThus, from the perspective of the spiritual lineage, it is said that Niguma's spiritual realization originates directly from the Buddha Vajradhara, rather than from any living human teachers.\n\nThere is some evidence that the great dakini and Vajrayana teacher Sukhasiddhi may have been a student of Niguma's. Other evidence indicates that they may never have met even while living during the same time period. Both Niguma and Sukhasiddhi were teachers of Khyungpo Neljor, and both Niguma and Sukhasiddhi are credited with the formation of the Shangpa Kagyu lineage of Vajrayana Buddhism.\n\nThe great meditation master and translator, Marpa Lotsawa received teachings from Niguma on at least two occasions. Marpa is said to have visited Niguma each time he traveled to India. Sources say that he sought out Niguma on the advice of Naropa. The story is told thusly, in \"The Life of Marpa\":\n\nAnother source says that Marpa's first visit to Niguma was suggested by Naropa and that a later visit to Niguma was suggested by Shantibhadra. During the first meeting, Marpa received the \"Catuhpitha\" empowerment and instructions. During his second visit with Niguma, he received prophecy about meeting Naropa again, even though Naropa had already died.\n\nNiguma had many important students during her lifetime. The Tibetan meditation master Khyungpo Neljor () stands out both for his intensive travel to seek teachings and transmissions from qualified masters and also for receiving the entire corpus of teachings from Niguma that would become the basis of the Shangpa Kagyu lineage. Khyungpo Neljor traveled to Nepal and India seeking teachings and transmissions from a variety of teachers, including Niguma. Some of Niguma's realization, and teaching style, can be seen in the description of Khyngpo Neljor meeting Niguma for the first time. While in India studying with various teachers, Khyungpo Neljor asked those he met if there were any teachers who had met the Buddha Vajradhara. He was told that Niguma had. So, he sought out Niguma in order to receive even higher levels of teaching from her. He found the dakini Niguma in the Sosa charnal ground of eastern India. It is traditional for a student to request teachings and transmissions three times before they are bestowed. When Khyungpo Neljor first requested transmissions, Niguma is said to have replied in the code-language of the dakinis: \"I am a flesh-eating dakini!\" One source says that she claimed to be the queen of the cannibals. Finally when Khyngpo Neljor again asked for transmissions, Niguma demanded gold from him. He had been traveling with great amounts of gold in order to make offerings to any teacher he met. When he offered the gold to Niguma, she threw it up into the air and it scattered throughout the forest. Then,\n\nKhungpo Neljor then returned to Tibet, and established a monastery at Zhangzhong in the Shang region in western Tsang. This was his main seat, and he became known as the Lama of Shang. Although he was reputed to have founded hundreds of monasteries and had thousands of students, he passed the teachings of Niguma to only one of his students, Mochok Rinchen Tsondru. The Shangpa lineage is often referred to as the \"secret lineage\" because Niguma instructed Khyungpo Neljor to transmit the teachings to only one student for the first seven generations beginning with Vajradhara and Niguma. Niguma then passed the lineage to Khyungpo Neljor who passed it to Mokchokpa Rinchen Tsondru (1110-1170). After that, Niguma's lineage went to Wonton Kyergngpa (or Chokyi Senge, 1143-1216), Sangye Nyenton (or Rigongpa, 1175-1247/1255?), and Drogon Sangye Tonpa (1207-1278). At this point, the lineage stream was opened up and teachings and practices were given to many others.\n\nThe famous architect, scholar, and yogi Thang Tong Gyalpo (1385–1464CE or 1361–1485CE\n) was one of Niguma's students, yet in a unique way. He was instructed by Niguma in a vision two to three centuries after she lived. He is well known for being a great Buddhist adept, a yogi, physician, blacksmith, architect, and a pioneering civil engineer. He is considered a reincarnation of Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen and founded the Iron Chain lineage () of the Shangpa Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism which was founded by Niguma.\n\nThe legacy of Niguma's teachings and spiritual practices is still available today within the Shangpa Kagyu tradition. Included in the corpus are songs and prayers (including aspiration prayers), a sadhana cycle called \"The Six Dharmas of Niguma\" (see below), mahamudra practices, as well as unique sadhana practice cycles for Chakrasamvara, and Hevajra.\n\nLike other early Indian mahasiddhas, Niguma is known for her oral teachings in the form of songs. Here are both songs to Niguma and songs by Niguma.\n\nNiguma brought forth a tantric sadhana cycle, a cohesive set of spiritual practices, referred to properly as the \"Vajra Lines of the Six Dharmas\", sometimes also referred to as the \"Six Yogas of Niguma\". This is a parallel to the more well known \"Six Yogas of Naropa\". Yet, for both Niguma's and Naropa's Vajrayana sadhana cycles, it is more accurate to use the term \"six dharmas\". \n\nThe \"Six Dharmas of Niguma\" are classified as completion stage (\"rdzogs rim\") practices focusing on controlling and refining the channels, winds, and energies of the subtle body.\n\nDetails of the sadhana cycle brought forth by Niguma can be found in \"Selected Works of the Dalai Lama: The Tantric Yogas of Sister Niguma\" compiled, edited, and translated by Glenn H. Mullin, 1985, Snow Lion Publications.\n\nAdditional details of the \"Nigh Chosdrug\", or \"Six Yogas of Sister Niguma\" can be found here:http://yoniversum.nl/daktexts/niguchos.html\n\nAn interesting comparison of \"The Six Dharmas of Niguma\" with \"The Six Dharmas of Naropa\" can be found in \"Niguma, Lady of Illusion\" by Sarah Harding, pp. 135–136.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31584958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584958", "title": "Orebites", "text": "Orebites\n\nThe Orebites () were followers of the Hussites in Eastern Bohemia. The founders took part in the procession on Mount Oreb near Třebechovice pod Orebem. Later most of the noble supporters belonged to the East Bohemian church known as the \"Bohemian Brethren\". The ideological founder of the Orebites was a priest named Ambrož Hradecký. Leaders included Hynek Krušina of Lichtenburg and Diviš Bořek of Miletínek, captain of the Hussites in Eastern and Central Bohemia. The Orebites were instrumental in the burning of the Benedictine monastery in Mnichovo Hradiště in the early summer of 1420, and in the autumn of that year they supported the rest of the Hussites at the Battle of Vyšehrad. In 1423 they merged with the \"Sirotci\" of Jan Žižka.\n"}
{"id": "6101429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6101429", "title": "Page of Cups", "text": "Page of Cups\n\nPage of Cups (or Jack or Knave of Cups) is a card used in Latin suited playing cards which include tarot decks. It is part of what tarot card readers call the \"Minor Arcana\"\n\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nThis card can represent a sweet-natured child who loves home life and family but may struggle in school. This child enjoys the arts and is very spiritual. The child may be psychic. \n\nThis page has a powerful imagination, as well. Creativity and vision are among this person's blessings. \n\nAs a situation it represents an opportunity for artistic or creative learning and expansion.\n"}
{"id": "641576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641576", "title": "Pana Wave", "text": "Pana Wave\n\nThe Pana-Wave Laboratory () is a Japanese new religious group or \"Shinshūkyō\". Estimates of membership range from several hundred to 1,200.\n\nPana-Wave is an offshoot of a religious group called Chino-Shoho (\"True Law of Chino\") based in Shibuya, Tokyo, founded by a woman called Yuko Chino in 1977 and combining elements of Christianity, Buddhism and New Age doctrines. \n\nIn the mid 1980s, members calling themselves the \"scientific faction\", and warning of the evils of electromagnetic waves (which the group claimed were causing catastrophic environmental destruction and climate change) built the Pana-Wave Laboratory in Fukui Prefecture in an area they believed was less at risk from electromagnetic pollution. Members started to dress only in white in the mid 1990s, in the belief that this would protect them from harmful \"scalar electromagnetic waves\", which they claimed were being used against them by communists to try to kill their leader. \n\nIn 1994 the group formed a convoy of white vans which traveled around rural Japan searching for a place least at risk from harmful electromagnetic radiation and away from power lines, and setting up camp in remote locations for months on end and covering everything in white. They also took their leader Chino when she was ill with cancer into the mountains of Japan to search for a safe place where waves couldn't harm her anymore. They believed that if the waves got to their leader that all of mankind would all at once be destroyed.\n\nThey first attracted attention in March 2003, when they attempted (and failed) to capture Tama-chan, an Arctic seal which had become a national celebrity in Japan since showing up in Tama River in Tokyo the previous year. The group believed that the seal had been led astray by electromagnetic waves, and claimed that doomsday would somehow be averted if the seal was returned to Arctic waters. They had even built two swimming pools, lined in white, in a compound in Yamanashi Prefecture in which to hold the seal until it could be transferred to the Arctic. \n\nThe group made national headlines in April when the convoy was ordered by police to move on from a road in Gifu Prefecture and refused, resulting in a stand-off which was reported in the national media. Pana-Wave alleged that a close encounter with an undiscovered 10th planet, predicted for 15 May that year, would cause the Earth's poles to flip over and lead to catastrophic earthquakes and tsunamis which would destroy most of humankind, and that they were looking for a safe location to ride out the catastrophe. TV images showed members dressed completely in white, complete with white hoods, surgical masks and white boots. Their vehicles were decorated with swirl patterns which they believed neutralised the invisible waves, and even the steering wheel was covered in white plaster. Nearby trees, bushes and crash barriers were also covered in white fabric. TV crews were first shunned by members who feared that TV cameras were emitting harmful waves, but were later allowed closer as long as they covered themselves and their equipment in white material.\n\nThis camp was eventually broken up by three hundred police, some in riot gear, who threatened to arrest them for obstructing traffic. The convoy moved on, setting up camp intermittently, but many in Japan were unnerved by the group, which evoked memories of Aum Shinrikyo, a religious terrorist group which carried out the deadly sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway in 1995, and the convoy continued being turned away from village after village. In the lead-up to the supposed doomsday, some one hundred riot police and TV crew followed the highly photogenic convoy around rural Japan for several weeks to keep tabs on their activities. \n\nOn 14 May, the day before the predicted doomsday, police raided twelve locations associated with the group on the pretext of minor vehicle registration offences. However, nothing was found which suggested that they posed a danger to society. \n\nWhen the May 15 doomsday passed with nothing more serious than a minor earthquake in Tokyo which injured one boy who fell off his bed and broke an arm, a member thought to be Chino's second-in-command made a statement that they believed that they had miscalculated the date, and a new date of May 22 was set. However, as this date again passed without incident, media attention faded and the group sank back into obscurity.\n\nOn 25 October 2006, Chino died aged 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "3680358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680358", "title": "Pothippu", "text": "Pothippu\n\nThe Pothippu is one of the sub-sections of Arul Nool, which was the secondary scripture of Ayyavazhi. It is a form of prayer called 'Mappu Kettal'. The author of the content is unknown.\n"}
{"id": "1640352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640352", "title": "Quindecimviri sacris faciundis", "text": "Quindecimviri sacris faciundis\n\nIn ancient Rome, the quindecimviri sacris faciundis were the fifteen (\"quindecim\") members of a college (\"collegium\") with priestly duties. Most notably they guarded the Sibylline Books, scriptures which they consulted and interpreted at the request of the Senate. This \"collegium\" also oversaw the worship of any foreign gods which were introduced to Rome.\n\nOriginally these duties had been performed by \"duumviri\" (or \"duoviri\"), two men of patrician status. Their number was increased to ten by a Licinio-Sextian law in 367 BC, which also required for half of the priests to be \"plebs\". During the Middle Republic, members of the college were admitted through co-option.\n\nAt some point in the third century BC, several priesthoods, probably including the \"quindecimviri\", began to be elected through the voting tribes.\n\n"}
{"id": "16825135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16825135", "title": "Religion in Solomon Islands", "text": "Religion in Solomon Islands\n\nReligious makeup of the population of Solomon Islands as of 2007:\n\nAn estimated 5 percent of the population, consisting primarily of the Kwaio community on the island of Malaita, practice indigenous animistic religions. Groups that together constitute less than 5 percent of the population include the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community and other Muslims, the Baha'i Faith, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Unification Church, and indigenous churches that have broken away from the major Christian denominations. There are believed to be members of other religious groups within the foreign community who were free to practice, but they are not known to proselytize or hold public religious ceremonies. According to the most recent reports, there are approximately 350 Muslims.\n\nChristianity was brought to the country in the 19th and early 20th centuries by missionaries representing several Western denominations. Some foreign missionaries continue to work in the country. Except for the Roman Catholic Church, whose clergy is approximately 45 percent foreign, the clergy of the established churches is nearly entirely indigenous.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. The US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2623640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623640", "title": "Religious fanaticism", "text": "Religious fanaticism\n\nReligious fanaticism is uncritical zeal or with an obsessive enthusiasm related to one's own, or one's group's, devotion to a religion – a form of human fanaticism which could otherwise be expressed in one's other involvements and participation, including employment, role, and partisan affinities.\n\nSteffen gives several features associated with religious fanaticism or extremism:\n\n\nEver since Christianity was established, some of those in authority have sought to expand and control the church, often through the fanatical use of force. Grant Shafer says, \"Jesus of Nazareth is best known as a preacher of nonviolence\"\n, although in Matthew 10:34 he says, \"Think not that I am come to send peace on earth; I came not to send peace, but a sword.\"\nThe start of Christian fanatic rule came with the Roman Emperor Constantine I as Catholicism. Ellens says, \"When Christianity came to power in the empire of Constantine, it proceeded almost to viciously repress all non-Christians and all Christians who did not line up with official Orthodox ideology, policy, and practice\". An example of Christians who didn't line up with Orthodox ideology is the Donatists, who \"refused to accept repentant clergy who had formerly given way to apostasy when persecuted\".\nFanatic Christian activity, as Catholicism, continued into the Middle Ages with the Crusades. These wars were attempts by the Catholics, sanctioned by the Pope, to reclaim the Holy Land from the Muslims. However many Catholics see the crusades as a just war in self-defense. Charles Selengut, in his book \"Sacred Fury: Understanding Religious Violence\", said:\n\nThe Crusades were very much holy wars waged to maintain Christianity's theological and social control. On their way to conquering the Holy Land from the Muslims by force of arms, the crusaders destroyed dozens of Jewish communities and killed thousands because the Jews would not accept the Christian faith. Jews had to be killed in the religious campaign because their very existence challenged the sole truth espoused by the Christian Church.\n\nShafer adds that, \"When the crusaders captured Jerusalem in 1099, they killed Muslims, Jews, and native Christians indiscriminately\".\nAnother prominent form of fanaticism according to some came a few centuries later with the Spanish Inquisition. The Inquisition was the monarchy's way of making sure their people stayed within Catholic Christianity. Selengut said, \"The inquisitions were attempts at self-protection and targeted primarily \"internal enemies\" of the church\". The driving force of the Inquisition was the Inquisitors, who were responsible for spreading the truth of Christianity. Selengut continues, saying:\n\nThe inquisitors generally saw themselves as educators helping people maintain correct beliefs by pointing out errors in knowledge and judgment... Punishment and death came only to those who refused to admit their errors ... during the Spanish Inquisitions of the fifteenth century, the clear distinction between confession and innocence and remaining in error became muddled... The investigators had to invent all sorts of techniques, including torture, to ascertain whether ... new converts' beliefs were genuine.\n\nExtremism within Islam goes back to the 7th century to the Kharijites. From their essentially political position, they developed extreme doctrines that set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shiʿa Muslims. The Kharijites were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to Takfir, whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed them worthy of death.\nSayyid Qutb, a figurehead of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, was influential in promoting a Pan-Islamist ideology in the 1960s. When Qutb was executed by the Egyptian government, Ayman al-Zawahiri formed the organization Egyptian Islamic Jihad to replace the government with an Islamic state that would reflect Qutb's ideas for Islamic revival. The Qutbist ideology has been influential in jihadist movements that seek to overthrow secular governments, and Qutb's books have been frequently been cited by Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki.\n\nSince Osama bin Laden's fatwa in 1998, radical jihad has increasingly become an internationally recognized term. Bin Laden's concept, though, is very different from the actual meaning of the term. In the religious context, \"jihad\" most nearly means \"working urgently for a certain godly objective, generally an imperialist one\". The word jihad in Arabic means 'struggle'. The struggle can be a struggle of implementing the Islamic values in daily activities, a struggle with others to counter arguments against Islam, or self-defense when physically attacked because of belief in Islam. According to Steffen, there are portions of the Qur'an where military jihad is used. As Steffen says, though, \"Jihad in these uses is always defensive. Not only does ‘jihad' not endorse acts of military aggression, but ‘jihad' is invoked in Qur'anic passages to indicate how uses of force are always subject to restraint and qualification\". This kind of jihad differs greatly from the kind most commonly discussed today.\n\nThomas Farr, in an essay titled \"Islam's Way to Freedom\", says that, \"Even though most Muslims reject violence, the extremists' use of sacred texts lends their actions authenticity and recruiting power\". (Freedom 24) He goes on to say, \"The radicals insist that their central claim – God's desire for Islam's triumph – requires no interpretation. According to them, true Muslims will pursue it by any means necessary, including dissimulation, civil coercion, and the killing of innocents\". (Freedom 24)\n\nAccording to certain observers this disregard for others and rampant use of violence is markedly different from the peaceful message that jihad is meant to employ. Although fanatic jihadists have committed many terroristic acts throughout the world, perhaps the best known is the September 11 attacks. According to Ellens, the al-Qaeda members who took part in the terrorist attacks did so out of their belief that, by doing it, they would \"enact a devastating blow against the evil of secularized and non-Muslim America. They were cleansing this world, God's temple\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28329", "title": "Solomon", "text": "Solomon\n\nSolomon (; , \"Shlomoh),\" also called Jedidiah (Hebrew \"Yedidyah\"), was, according to the Hebrew Bible, Quran, and Hadiths, a fabulously wealthy and wise king of Israel who succeeded his father, King David. The conventional dates of Solomon's reign are circa 970 to 931 BCE, normally given in alignment with the dates of David's reign. He is described as the third king of the United Monarchy, which would break apart into the northern Kingdom of Israel and the southern Kingdom of Judah shortly after his death. Following the split, his patrilineal descendants ruled over Judah alone.\n\nAccording to the Talmud, Solomon is one of the 48 prophets. In the Quran, he is considered a major prophet, and Muslims generally refer to him by the Arabic variant Sulayman, son of David.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible credits him as the builder of the First Temple in Jerusalem, beginning in the fourth year of his reign, using the vast wealth he and his father had accumulated. He dedicated the temple to Yahweh, the God of Israel. He is portrayed as great in wisdom, wealth and power beyond either of the previous kings of the country, but also as a king who sinned. His sins included idolatry, marrying foreign women and, ultimately, turning away from Yahweh, and they led to the kingdom's being torn in two during the reign of his son Rehoboam.\n\nSolomon is the subject of many other later references and legends, most notably in the 1st-century apocryphal work known as the Testament of Solomon. In the New Testament, he is portrayed as a teacher of wisdom excelled by Jesus, and as arrayed in glory, but excelled by \"the lilies of the field\". In later years, in mostly non-biblical circles, Solomon also came to be known as a magician and an exorcist, with numerous amulets and medallion seals dating from the Hellenistic period invoking his name.\n\nThe life of Solomon is primarily described in the second Book of Samuel, and by 1 Chronicles and 1 Kings. His two names mean \"peaceful\" and \"friend of God\", both appropriate to the story of his rule.\n\nThe conventional dates of Solomon's reign are derived from biblical chronology and are set from c. 970 to 931 BCE. Regarding the Davidic dynasty, to which King Solomon belongs, its chronology can be checked against datable Babylonian and Assyrian records at a few points, and these correspondences have allowed archaeologists to date its kings in a modern framework. According to the most widely used chronology, based on that by Old Testament professor Edwin R. Thiele, the death of Solomon and the division of his kingdom would have occurred in the spring of 931 BCE.\n\nSolomon was born in Jerusalem, the second born child of David and his wife Bathsheba, widow of Uriah the Hittite. The first child (unnamed in that account), a son conceived adulterously during Uriah's lifetime, had died as a punishment on account of the death of Uriah by David's order. Solomon had three named full brothers born to Bathsheba: Nathan, Shammua, and Shobab, besides six known older half-brothers born of as many mothers. \n\nThe biblical narrative shows that Solomon served as a peace offering between God and David, due to his adulterous relationship with Bathsheba. In an effort to hide this sin, for example, he sent the woman's husband to battle, hoping that he would be killed there. After he died, David was finally able to marry his wife. As punishment, the first child, who was conceived during the adulterous relationship, died. Solomon was born after David was forgiven. It is this reason why his name, which means peace, was chosen. Some historians cited that Nathan the Prophet brought up Solomon as his father was busy governing the realm. This could also be attributed to the notion that the prophet held great influence over David because he knew of his adultery, which was considered a grievous offense under the Mosaic Law. It was only during Absalom's rebellion when Solomon started spending more time at David's side.\n\nAccording to the First Book of Kings, when David was old, \"he could not get warm\". \"So they sought a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunamite, and brought her to the king. The young woman was very beautiful, and she was of service to the king and attended to him, but the king knew her not.\"\n\nWhile David was in this state, court factions were maneuvering for power. David's heir apparent, Adonijah, acted to have himself declared king, but was outmaneuvered by Bathsheba and the prophet Nathan, who convinced David to proclaim Solomon king according to his earlier promise (not recorded elsewhere in the biblical narrative), despite Solomon being younger than his brothers.\n\nSolomon, as instructed by David, began his reign with an extensive purge, including his father's chief general, Joab, among others, and further consolidated his position by appointing friends throughout the administration, including in religious positions as well as in civic and military posts. It is said that Solomon ascended to the throne when he was only about fifteen.\n\nSolomon greatly expanded his military strength, especially the cavalry and chariot arms. He founded numerous colonies, some of which doubled as trading posts and military outposts.\n\nTrade relationships were a focus of his administration. In particular he continued his father's very profitable relationship with the Phoenician king Hiram I of Tyre (see 'wealth' below); they sent out joint expeditions to the lands of Tarshish and Ophir to engage in the trade of luxury products, importing gold, silver, sandalwood, pearls, ivory, apes and peacocks. Solomon is considered the most wealthy of the Israelite kings named in the Bible.\n\nSolomon was the biblical king most famous for his wisdom. In 1 Kings he sacrificed to God, and God later appeared to him in a dream asking what Solomon wanted from God. Solomon asked for wisdom. Pleased, God personally answered Solomon's prayer, promising him great wisdom because he did not ask for self-serving rewards like long life or the death of his enemies.\nPerhaps the best known story of his wisdom is the Judgment of Solomon; two women each lay claim to being the mother of the same child. Solomon easily resolved the dispute by commanding the child to be cut in half and shared between the two. One woman promptly renounced her claim, proving that she would rather give the child up than see it killed. Solomon declared the woman who showed compassion to be the true mother, entitled to the whole child.\n\nSolomon was traditionally considered the author of several biblical books, \"including not only the collections of Proverbs, but also of Ecclesiastes and the Song of Solomon and the later apocryphal book the Wisdom of Solomon.\"\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, the Israelite monarchy gained its highest splendour and wealth during Solomon's reign of 40 years. In a single year, according to , Solomon collected tribute amounting to 666 talents (18,125 kilograms) of gold. Solomon is described as surrounding himself with all the luxuries and the grandeur of an Eastern monarch, and his government prospered. He entered into an alliance with Hiram I, king of Tyre, who in many ways greatly assisted him in his numerous undertakings.\n\nFor some years before his death, David was engaged in collecting materials for building a temple in Jerusalem as a permanent home for Yahweh and the Ark of the Covenant. Solomon is described as undertaking the construction of the temple, with the help of an architect, also named Hiram, and other materials, sent from King Hiram of Tyre.\n\nAfter the completion of the temple, Solomon is described in the biblical narrative as erecting many other buildings of importance in Jerusalem. For 13 years, he was engaged in the building of a royal palace on Ophel (a hilly promontory in central Jerusalem). This complex included buildings referred to as:\nas well as his own residence and a residence for his wife, Pharaoh's daughter.\n\nSolomon also constructed great works for the purpose of securing a plentiful supply of water for the city, and the Millo (Septuagint, \"Acra\") for the defense of the city. However, excavations of Jerusalem have shown a distinct lack of monumental architecture from the era, and remains of neither the Temple nor Solomon's palace have been found.\n\nSolomon is also described as rebuilding cities elsewhere in Israel, creating the port of Ezion-Geber, and constructing Palmyra in the wilderness as a commercial depot and military outpost. Although the location of the port of Ezion-Geber is known, no remains have ever been found. More archaeological success has been achieved with the major cities Solomon is said to have strengthened or rebuilt, for example, Hazor, Megiddo and Gezer. These all have substantial ancient remains, including impressive six-chambered gates, and ashlar palaces; however it is no longer the scholarly consensus that these structures date to the time, according to the Bible, when Solomon ruled.\n\nAccording to the Bible, during Solomon's reign, Israel enjoyed great commercial prosperity, with extensive traffic being carried on by land with Tyre, Egypt, and Arabia, and by sea with Tarshish, Ophir, and South India.\n\nAccording to the biblical account, Solomon had 700 wives and 300 concubines. The wives were described as foreign princesses, including Pharaoh's daughter and women of Moab, Ammon, Edom, Sidon and of the Hittites. His marriage to Pharaoh's daughter appears to have cemented a political alliance with Egypt whereas he clung to his other wives and concubines \"in love\".\n\nThe only wife mentioned by name is Naamah the Ammonite, mother of Solomon's successor, Rehoboam. The biblical narrative notes with disapproval that Solomon permitted his foreign wives to import their national deities, building temples to Ashtoreth and Milcom.\n\nIn the branch of literary analysis that examines the Bible, called higher criticism, the story of Solomon falling into idolatry by the influence of Pharaoh's daughter and his other foreign wives is \"customarily seen as the handiwork of the 'deuteronomistic historian(s)'\", who are held to have written, compiled, or edited texts to legitimize the reforms of Hezekiah's grandson, King Josiah who reigned from ca 641 BCE to 609 BCE (over 280 years after Solomon's death according to Bible scholars). Scholarly consensus in this field holds that \"Solomon's wives/women were introduced in the 'Josianic' (customarily Dtr) edition of Kings as a theological construct to blame the schism [between Judah and the Northern Kingdom of Israel] on his misdeeds\".\n\nIn a brief, unelaborated, and enigmatic passage, the Hebrew Bible describes how the fame of Solomon's wisdom and wealth spread far and wide, so much so that the queen of Sheba decided that she should meet him. The queen is described as visiting with a number of gifts including gold, spices and precious stones. When Solomon gave her \"all her desire, whatsoever she asked,\" she left satisfied (1 Kings 10:10).\n\nWhether the passage is simply to provide a brief token, foreign witness of Solomon's wealth and wisdom, or whether there is meant to be something more significant to the queen's visit is unknown; nevertheless the visit of the Queen of Sheba has become the subject of numerous stories.\n\nSheba is typically identified as Saba, a nation once spanning the Red Sea on the coasts of what are now Eritrea, Somalia, Ethiopia and Yemen, in Arabia Felix. In a Rabbinical account (e.g. Targum Sheni), Solomon was accustomed to ordering the living creatures of the world to dance before him (Rabbinical accounts say that Solomon had been given control over all living things by Yahweh), but one day upon discovering that the mountain-cock or hoopoe (Aramaic name: \"nagar tura\") was absent, he summoned it to him, and the bird told him that it had been searching for somewhere new (see: ).\n\nThe bird had discovered a land in the east, exceedingly rich in gold, silver, and plants, whose capital was called \"Kitor\" and whose ruler was the Queen of Sheba, and the bird, on its own advice, was sent by Solomon to request the queen's immediate attendance at Solomon's court.\n\nAn Ethiopian account from the 14th century (\"Kebra Nagast\") maintains that the Queen of Sheba had sexual relations with King Solomon and gave birth by the Mai Bella stream in the province of Hamasien, Eritrea. The Ethiopian tradition has a detailed account of the affair. The child was a son who went on to become Menelik I, King of Axum, and founded a dynasty that would reign as the first Jewish, then Christian Empire of Ethiopia for 2,900+ years (less one usurpation episode, an interval of c. 133 years until a legitimate male heir regained the crown) until Haile Selassie was overthrown in 1974. Menelik was said to be a practicing Jew who was given a replica of the Ark of the Covenant by King Solomon; and, moreover, that the original was switched and went to Axum with him and his mother, and is still there, guarded by a single priest charged with caring for the artifact as his life's task.\n\nThe claim of such a lineage and of possession of the Ark has been an important source of legitimacy and prestige for the Ethiopian monarchy throughout the many centuries of its existence, and had important and lasting effects on Ethiopian culture as a whole. The Ethiopian government and church deny all requests to view the alleged ark.\n\nSome classical-era Rabbis, attacking Solomon's moral character, have claimed instead that the child was an ancestor of Nebuchadnezzar II, who destroyed Solomon's temple some 300 years later.\n\nAccording to Solomon's \"wives turned his heart after other gods\", their own national deities, to whom Solomon built temples, thus incurring divine anger and retribution in the form of the division of the kingdom after Solomon's death ().\nAccording to and , it was because of these sins that \"the Lord punishes Solomon by removing 10 of the 12 Tribes of Israel from the Israelites.\nNear the end of his life, Solomon was forced to contend with several enemies, including Hadad of Edom, Rezon of Zobah, and one of his officials named Jeroboam who was from the tribe of Ephraim.\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, Solomon is the last ruler of a united Kingdom of Israel. He dies of natural causes at around 60 years of age. Upon Solomon's death, his son, Rehoboam, succeeds him. However, ten of the Tribes of Israel refuse to accept him as king, splitting the United Monarchy in the northern Kingdom of Israel under Jeroboam, while Rehoboam continues to reign over the much smaller southern Kingdom of Judah. Henceforth the two kingdoms are never again united.\n\nKing Solomon is one of the central biblical figures in Jewish heritage that have lasting religious, national and political aspects. As the builder of the First Temple in Jerusalem and last ruler of the united Kingdom of Israel before its division into the northern Kingdom of Israel and the southern Kingdom of Judah, Solomon is associated with the peak \"golden age\" of the independent Kingdom of Israel as well as a source of judicial and religious wisdom. According to Jewish tradition, King Solomon wrote three books of the Bible:\n\nThe Hebrew word \"To Solomon\" (which can also be translated as \"by Solomon\") appears in the title of two hymns, 72 and 127, in the book of Psalms (\"Tehillim\"), suggesting to some that Solomon wrote them.\n\nRabbinical tradition attributes the \"Wisdom of Solomon\" to Solomon, although this book was probably written in the 2nd century BCE. In this work, Solomon is portrayed as an astronomer. Other books of wisdom poetry such as the \"Odes of Solomon\" and the \"Psalms of Solomon\" also bear his name. The Jewish historian Eupolemus, who wrote about 157 BCE, included copies of apocryphal letters exchanged between Solomon and the kings of Egypt and Tyre.\n\nThe Gnostic \"Apocalypse of Adam\", which may date to the 1st or 2nd century, refers to a legend in which Solomon sends out an army of demons to seek a virgin who had fled from him, perhaps the earliest surviving mention of the later common tale that Solomon controlled demons and made them his slaves. This tradition of Solomon's control over demons appears fully elaborated in the early pseudographical work called the \"Testament of Solomon\" with its elaborate and grotesque demonology.\n\nHistorical evidence of King Solomon other than the biblical accounts has been so minimal that some scholars have understood the period of his reign as a 'Dark Age' (Muhly 1998). The first-century Romano-Jewish scholar Josephus in \"Against Apion\", citing Tyrian court records and Menander, gives a specific year during which King Hiram I of Tyre sent materials to Solomon for the construction of the Temple. However, no material evidence indisputably of Solomon's reign has been found. Yigael Yadin's excavations at Hazor, Megiddo, Beit Shean and Gezer uncovered structures that he and others have argued date from Solomon's reign, but others, such as Israel Finkelstein and Neil Silberman, argue that they should be dated to the Omride period, more than a century after Solomon.\n\nAccording to Finkelstein and Silberman, authors of \"The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts\", at the time of the kingdoms of David and Solomon, Jerusalem was populated by only a few hundred residents or less, which is insufficient for an empire stretching from the Euphrates to Eilath. According to \"The Bible Unearthed\", archaeological evidence suggests that the kingdom of Israel at the time of Solomon was little more than a small city state, and so it is implausible that Solomon received tribute as large as 666 talents of gold per year. Although both Finkelstein and Silberman accept that David and Solomon were real inhabitants of Judah about the 10th century BCE, they claim that the earliest independent reference to the Kingdom of Israel is about 890 BCE, and for Judah about 750 BCE. They suggest that because of religious prejudice, the authors of the Bible suppressed the achievements of the Omrides (whom the Hebrew Bible describes as being polytheist), and instead pushed them back to a supposed golden age of Judaism and monotheists, and devotees of Yahweh. Some Biblical minimalists like Thomas L. Thompson go further, arguing that Jerusalem became a city and capable of being a state capital only in the mid-7th century. Likewise, Finkelstein and others consider the claimed size of Solomon's temple implausible.\n\nThese views are criticized by William G. Dever, and André Lemaire, among others. Lemaire states in \"Ancient Israel: From Abraham to the Roman Destruction of the Temple\" that the principal points of the biblical tradition of Solomon are generally trustworthy, although elsewhere he writes that he could find no substantiating archaeological evidence that supports the Queen of Sheba's visit to king Solomon, saying that the earliest records of trans-Arabian caravan voyages from Tayma and Sheba unto the Middle-Euphrates etc. occurred in the mid-8th century BCE, placing a possible visit from the Queen of Sheba to Jerusalem around this time – some 250 years later than the timeframe traditionally given for king Solomon's reign. Kenneth Kitchen argues that Solomon ruled over a comparatively wealthy \"mini-empire\", rather than a small city-state, and considers 666 gold talents a modest amount of money. Kitchen calculates that over 30 years, such a kingdom might have accumulated up to 500 tons of gold, which is small compared to other examples, such as the 1,180 tons of gold that Alexander the Great took from Susa. Similarly Kitchen and others consider the temple of Solomon a reasonable and typically sized structure for the region at the time. Dever states \"that we now have direct Bronze and Iron Age parallels for every feature of the 'Solomonic temple' as described in the Hebrew Bible\".\n\nSome scholars have charted a middle path between minimalist scholars like Finkelstein, Silberman, and Philip Davies (who believes that “Solomon is a totally invented character”) on the one hand, and maximalist scholars like Dever, Lemaire, and Kitchen on the other hand. For instance, the archaeologist Avraham Faust has argued that biblical depictions of Solomon date to later periods and do overstate his wealth, buildings, and kingdom, but that Solomon did have an acropolis and ruled over a polity larger than Jerusalem. In particular, his archaeological research in regions near Jerusalem, like Sharon, finds commerce too great not to be supported by a polity and such regions probably were ruled loosely by Jerusalem. Scholars like Lester Grabbe also believe that there must have been a ruler in Jerusalem during this period and that he likely built a temple, although the town was quite small.\n\nThe archaeological remains that are considered to date from the time of Solomon are notable for the fact that Canaanite material culture appears to have continued unabated; there is a distinct lack of magnificent empire, or cultural development – indeed comparing pottery from areas traditionally assigned to Israel with that of the Philistines points to the latter having been significantly more sophisticated. However, there is a lack of physical evidence of its existence, despite some archaeological work in the area. This is not unexpected because the area was devastated by the Babylonians, then rebuilt and destroyed several times.\n\nLittle archaeological excavation has been done around the area known as the Temple Mount, in what is thought to be the foundation of Solomon's Temple, because attempts to do so are met with protests by the Muslim authorities.\n\nThe biblical passages that understand Tarshish as a source of King Solomon's great wealth in metals – especially silver, but also gold, tin and iron (Ezekiel 27) – were linked to archaeological evidence from silver-hoards found in Phoenicia in 2013. The metals from Tarshish were reportedly obtained by Solomon in partnership with King Hiram of Phoenician Tyre (Isaiah 23), and the fleets of Tarshish-ships that sailed in their service, and the silver-hoards provide the first recognized material evidence that agrees with the ancient texts concerning Solomon's kingdom and his wealth (see 'wealth' below).\n\nPossible evidence for the described wealth of Solomon and his kingdom was discovered in ancient silver-hoards, which were found in Israel and Phoenicia and recognized for their importance in 2003. The evidence from the hoards shows that the Levant was a center of wealth in precious metals during the reign of Solomon and Hiram, and matches the texts that say the trade extended from Asia to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nFrom a critical point of view, Solomon's building of a temple for Yahweh should not be considered an act of particular devotion to Yahweh because Solomon is also described as building places of worship for a number of other deities. Some scholars and historians argue that Solomon's apparent initial devotion to Yahweh, described in passages such as his dedication prayer (), were written much later, after Jerusalem had become the religious centre of the kingdom, replacing locations such as Shiloh and Bethel. Some scholars believe that passages such as these in the Books of Kings were not written by the same authors who wrote the rest of the text, instead probably by the Deuteronomist. Such views have been challenged by other historians who maintain that there is evidence that these passages in Kings are derived from official court records at the time of Solomon and from other writings of that time that were incorporated into the canonical books of Kings.\n\nKing Solomon sinned by acquiring many foreign wives and horses because he thought he knew the reason for the biblical prohibition and thought it did not apply to him. When King Solomon married the daughter of the Egyptian Pharaoh, a sandbank formed which eventually formed the \"great nation of Rome\" – the nation that destroyed the Second Temple (Herod's Temple). Solomon gradually lost more and more prestige until he became like a commoner. Some say he regained his status while others say he did not. In the end however, he is regarded as a righteous king and is especially praised for his diligence in building the Temple.\n\nThe Seder Olam Rabba holds that Solomon's reign was not in 1000 BCE, but rather in the 9th century BCE, during which time he built the First Temple in 832 BCE. However, the 1906 Jewish Encyclopedia gives the more common date of \"971 to 931 B.C.\".\n\nChristianity has traditionally accepted the historical existence of Solomon, though some modern Christian scholars have also questioned at least his authorship of those biblical texts ascribed to him. Such disputes tend to divide Christians into traditionalist and modernist camps.\n\nOf the two genealogies of Jesus given in the Gospels, Matthew mentions Solomon, but Luke does not. Some commentators see this as an issue that can be reconciled while others disagree. For instance, it has been suggested that Luke is using Joseph's genealogy and Matthew is using Mary's, but Darrell Bock states that this would be unprecedented, \"especially when no other single woman appears in the line\". Other suggestions include the use by one of the royal and the other of the natural line, one using the legal line and the other the physical line, or that Joseph was adopted.\n\nJesus makes reference to Solomon, using him for comparison purposes in his admonition against worrying about your life. This account is recorded in Matthew 6:29 and the parallel passage in Luke 12:27\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, Solomon is commemorated as a saint, with the title of \"Righteous Prophet and King\". His feast day is celebrated on the Sunday of the Holy Forefathers (two Sundays before the Great Feast of the Nativity of the Lord).\n\nThe staunchly Catholic King Philip II of Spain sought to model himself after King Solomon. Statues of King David and Solomon stand on either side of the entrance to the basilica of El Escorial, Philip's palace, and Solomon is also depicted in a great fresco at the center of El Escorial's library. Philip identified the warrior-king David with his own father Charles V, and himself sought to emulate the thoughtful and logical character which he perceived in Solomon. Moreover, the structure of the Escorial was inspired by that of Solomon's Temple.\n\nIn Islamic tradition, Solomon is venerated as a Prophet and a Messenger of God, as well as a divinely appointed monarch, who ruled over the Kingdom of Israel. As in Judaism, Islam recognizes Solomon as the son of King David, who is also considered a Prophet and a King but, refuses the claim that Solomon turned to idolatry. One of the enslaved Jinn escaped his enslavement, instead, and took over his kingdom and posed as Solomon, while others thought indeed he became a ruthless king.\n\nThe Qur’an ascribes to Solomon a great level of wisdom, knowledge and power. He knew the \"Mantiq al-tayr\" (, language of the birds). Solomon was also known in the Islam to have other supernatural abilities bestowed upon him by Allah, after a special request by Solomon himself, such as controlling the wind, ruling over the Jinn, including demons, and the hearing of distant speeches by ants:\n\nThe Qur’an mentions Solomon 17 times.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, Solomon is regarded as one of the lesser prophets along with David, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, along with others. Baha'is see Solomon as a prophet who was sent by God to address the issues of his time. Baha'ullah wrote about Solomon in the \"Hidden Words\". He also mentions Solomon in the \"Tablet of Wisdom\", where he is depicted as a contemporary of Pythagoras.\n\nA well-known story in the collection \"One Thousand and One Nights\" describes a genie who had displeased King Solomon and was punished by being locked in a bottle and thrown into the sea. Since the bottle was sealed with Solomon's seal, the genie was helpless to free himself, until freed many centuries later by a fisherman who discovered the bottle. In other stories from the \"One Thousand and One Nights\", protagonists who had to leave their homeland and travel to the unknown places of the world saw signs which proved that Solomon had already been there. Sometimes, protagonists discovered words of Solomon that were intended to help those who were lost and had unluckily reached those forbidden and deserted places.\n\nAccording to the Rabbinical literature, on account of his modest request for wisdom only, Solomon was rewarded with riches and an unprecedented glorious realm, which extended over the upper world inhabited by the angels and over the whole of the terrestrial globe with all its inhabitants, including all the beasts, fowl, and reptiles, as well as the demons and spirits. His control over the demons, spirits, and animals augmented his splendor, the demons bringing him precious stones, besides water from distant countries to irrigate his exotic plants. The beasts and fowl of their own accord entered the kitchen of Solomon's palace, so that they might be used as food for him, and extravagant meals for him were prepared daily by each of his 700 wives and 300 concubines, with the thought that perhaps the king would feast that day in her house.\n\nA magic ring called the \"Seal of Solomon\" was supposedly given to Solomon and gave him power over demons or Jinn. The magical symbol said to have been on the Seal of Solomon which made it efficacious is often considered to be the \"Star of David\" though this emblem (also known as the Shield of David) is known to have been associated with Judaism only as recently as the 11th century CE while the five pointed star (pentagram) can be found on jars and other artifacts from Jerusalem dating back to at least the 2nd and 4th centuries BCE and is more likely to have been the emblem found on the ring purportedly used by King Solomon to control the Jinn or demons. Asmodeus, king of demons, was one day, according to the classical Rabbis, captured by Benaiah using the ring, and was forced to remain in Solomon's service. In one tale, Asmodeus brought a man with two heads from under the earth to show Solomon; the man, unable to return, married a woman from Jerusalem and had seven sons, six of whom resembled the mother, while one resembled the father in having two heads. After their father's death, the son with two heads claimed two shares of the inheritance, arguing that he was two men; Solomon decided that the son with two heads was only one man. The Seal of Solomon, in some legends known as the Ring of Aandaleeb, was a highly sought after symbol of power. In several legends, different groups or individuals attempted to steal it or attain it in some manner.\n\nOne legend concerning Asmodeus (see: ) goes on to state that Solomon one day asked Asmodeus what could make demons powerful over man, and Asmodeus asked to be freed and given the ring so that he could demonstrate; Solomon agreed but Asmodeus threw the ring into the sea and it was swallowed by a fish. Asmodeus then swallowed the king, stood up fully with one wing touching heaven and the other earth, and spat out Solomon to a distance of 400 miles. The Rabbis claim this was a divine punishment for Solomon's having failed to follow three divine commands, and Solomon was forced to wander from city to city, until he eventually arrived in an Ammonite city where he was forced to work in the king's kitchens. Solomon gained a chance to prepare a meal for the Ammonite king, which the king found so impressive that the previous cook was sacked and Solomon put in his place; the king's daughter, Naamah, subsequently fell in love with Solomon, but the family (thinking Solomon a commoner) disapproved, so the king decided to kill them both by sending them into the desert. Solomon and the king's daughter wandered the desert until they reached a coastal city, where they bought a fish to eat, which just happened to be the one which had swallowed the magic ring. Solomon was then able to regain his throne and expel Asmodeus. The element of a ring thrown into the sea and found back in a fish's belly also appeared in Herodotus' account of Polycrates, the tyrant of Samos from c. 538 BCE to 522 BCE.\n\nIn another familiar version of the legend of the Seal of Solomon, Asmodeus disguises himself. In some myths, he's disguised as King Solomon himself, while in more frequently heard versions he's disguised as a falcon, calling himself Gavyn (Gavinn or Gavin), one of King Solomon's trusted friends. The concealed Asmodeus tells travelers who have ventured up to King Solomon's grand lofty palace that the Seal of Solomon was thrown into the sea. He then convinces them to plunge in and attempt to retrieve it, for if they do they would take the throne as king.\n\nOther magical items attributed to Solomon are his key and his Table. The latter was said to be held in Toledo, Spain during Visigoth rule and was part of the loot taken by Tarik ibn Ziyad during the Umayyad Conquest of Iberia, according to Ibn Abd-el-Hakem's \"History of the Conquest of Spain\". The former appears in the title of the Lesser Key of Solomon, a grimoire whose framing story is Solomon capturing demons using his ring, and forcing them to explain themselves to him. In \"The Book of Deadly Names\", purportedly translated from Arabic manuscripts found hidden in a building in Spain, the \"King of the Jinn\" Fiqitush brings 72 Jinn before King Solomon to confess their corruptions and places of residence. Fiqitush tells King Solomon the recipes for curing such corruptions as each evil Jinn confesses.\n\nAngels also helped Solomon in building the Temple; though not by choice. The edifice was, according to rabbinical legend, miraculously constructed throughout, the large heavy stones rising and settling in their respective places of themselves. The general opinion of the Rabbis is that Solomon hewed the stones by means of a \"shamir\", a mythical worm whose mere touch cleft rocks. According to Midrash Tehillim, the shamir was brought from paradise by Solomon's eagle; but most of the rabbis state that Solomon was informed of the worm's haunts by Asmodeus. The shamir had been entrusted by the prince of the sea to the mountain rooster alone, and the rooster had sworn to guard it well, but Solomon's men found the bird's nest, and covered it with glass. When the bird returned, it used the shamir to break the glass, whereupon the men scared the bird, causing it to drop the worm, which the men could then bring to Solomon.\n\nEarly adherents of the Kabbalah portray Solomon as having sailed through the air on a throne of light placed on an eagle, which brought him near the heavenly gates as well as to the dark mountains behind which the fallen angels \"Uzza\" and \"Azzazel\" were chained; the eagle would rest on the chains, and Solomon, using the magic ring, would compel the two angels to reveal every mystery he desired to know.\n\nAccording to one legend, while traveling magically, Solomon noticed a magnificent palace to which there appeared to be no entrance. He ordered the demons to climb to the roof and see if they could discover any living being within the building but they found only an eagle, which said that it was 700 years old, but that it had never seen an entrance. An elder brother of the eagle, 900 years old, was then found, but it also did not know the entrance. The eldest brother of these two birds, which was 1,300 years old, then declared it had been informed by its father that the door was on the west side, but that it had become hidden by sand drifted by the wind. Having discovered the entrance, Solomon found an idol inside that had in its mouth a silver tablet saying in Greek (a language not thought by modern scholars to have existed 1000 years before the time of Solomon) that the statue was of \"Shaddad, the son of 'Ad\", and that it had \"reigned over a million cities, rode on a million horses, had under it a million vassals and slew a million warriors\", yet it could not resist the angel of death.\n\nSolomon's throne is described at length in Targum Sheni, which is compiled from three different sources, and in two later Midrash. According to these, there were on the steps of the throne twelve golden lions, each facing a golden eagle. There were six steps to the throne, on which animals, all of gold, were arranged in the following order: on the first step a lion opposite an ox; on the second, a wolf opposite a sheep; on the third, a tiger opposite a camel; on the fourth, an eagle opposite a peacock, on the fifth, a cat opposite a cock; on the sixth, a sparrow-hawk opposite a dove. On the top of the throne was a dove holding a sparrow-hawk in its claws, symbolizing the dominion of Israel over the Gentiles. The first midrash claims that six steps were constructed because Solomon foresaw that six kings would sit on the throne, namely, Solomon, Rehoboam, Hezekiah, Manasseh, Amon, and Josiah. There was also on the top of the throne a golden candelabrum, on the seven branches of the one side of which were engraved the names of the seven patriarchs Adam, Noah, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Job, and on the seven of the other the names of Levi, Kohath, Amram, Moses, Aaron, Eldad, Medad, and, in addition, Hur (another version has Haggai). Above the candelabrum was a golden jar filled with olive-oil and beneath it a golden basin which supplied the jar with oil and on which the names of Nadab, Abihu, and Eli and his two sons were engraved. Over the throne, twenty-four vines were fixed to cast a shadow on the king's head.\n\nBy a mechanical contrivance the throne followed Solomon wherever he wished to go. Supposedly, due to another mechanical trick, when the king reached the first step, the ox stretched forth its leg, on which Solomon leaned, a similar action taking place in the case of the animals on each of the six steps. From the sixth step the eagles raised the king and placed him in his seat, near which a golden serpent lay coiled. When the king was seated the large eagle placed the crown on his head, the serpent uncoiled itself, and the lions and eagles moved upward to form a shade over him. The dove then descended, took the scroll of the Law from the Ark, and placed it on Solomon's knees. When the king sat, surrounded by the Sanhedrin, to judge the people, the wheels began to turn, and the beasts and fowls began to utter their respective cries, which frightened those who had intended to bear false testimony. Moreover, while Solomon was ascending the throne, the lions scattered all kinds of fragrant spices. After Solomon's death, Pharaoh Shishak, when taking away the treasures of the Temple (I Kings xiv. 26), carried off the throne, which remained in Egypt until Sennacherib conquered that country. After Sennacherib's fall Hezekiah gained possession of it, but when Josiah was slain by Pharaoh Necho, the latter took it away. However, according to rabbinical accounts, Necho did not know how the mechanism worked and so accidentally struck himself with one of the lions causing him to become lame; Nebuchadnezzar, into whose possession the throne subsequently came, shared a similar fate. The throne then passed to the Persians, whose king Darius was the first to sit successfully on Solomon's throne after his death; subsequently the throne came into the possession of the Greeks and Ahasuerus.\n\nMasonic rituals refer to King Solomon and the building of his Temple. Masonic Temples, where a Masonic Lodge meets, are an allegorical reference to King Solomon's Temple.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858711", "title": "Stefan Reif", "text": "Stefan Reif\n\nStefan Reif (born 21 January 1944) is professor emeritus at the University of Cambridge. He was born in Edinburgh. He has a PhD from University College London and a Doctor of Literature from Cambridge.\n\nStefan Reif graduated at the University of London with first class honours in Hebrew and Aramaic (1964) and obtained his Ph.D. at Jews’ College and at University College London (1969) for an edition of a seventeenth-century Hebrew liturgical manuscript. He was awarded the William Lincoln Shelley Studentship (1967).\n\nFormer Head of the Oriental Division of the University Library.\nThe University Library established the Genizah Research Unit in 1974 and Reif directed it until retirement in 2006. He was elected to a personal chair in medieval Hebrew studies and to a fellowship at St John’s College at the University of Cambridge in 1998, and obtained the Litt.D. there in 2002. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Haifa in 2014 for his Genizah work, his research into Jewish liturgy and his encouragement of young scholars. He has written or edited fifteen volumes, as well as almost four hundred articles and reviews, and organized various international conferences. Among his most important studies are \"Shabbethai Sofer and his Prayer-book\" (1979), \"Judaism and Hebrew Prayer (\"1993), \"Hebrew Manuscripts at Cambridge University Library\" (1997), \"A Jewish Archive from Old Cairo\" (2000), \"Why Medieval Hebrew Studies?\" (2001), \"Problems with Prayers\" (2006) and \"Jewish Prayer Texts from the Cairo Genizah\" (2015–16).\n\nReif was president of the Hebraica Libraries’ Group (198l–84); the Jewish Historical Society of England (1991–92); the British Association for Jewish Studies (1992); the Cambridge Theological Society (2002–04); and the National Council on Orientalist Library Resources, (2004-5). He is a trustee of the Cambridge Traditional Jewish Congregation and a senior academic consultant to the Universities of Haifa and Tel Aviv in Israel. He is on the International Advisory Committees of the ISDCL and of the periodical Ginzei Qedem, and is an Honorary Fellow of the Mekize Nirdamim Society for the Publication of Ancient Hebrew Manuscripts. Reif is a popular lecturer and has addressed many audiences in Europe, Israel, the United States and Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "640852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640852", "title": "Tennin", "text": "Tennin\n\nTennin (天人), which may include tenshi (天使), ten no tsukai (天の使い, lit. \"heavenly messenger\"), hiten (飛天, lit. \"flying heaven\") and the specifically female tennyo (天女) are spiritual beings found in Japanese Buddhism that are similar to western angels, nymphs or fairies. They were seemingly imported from Chinese Buddhism, which was itself influenced by the concepts of heavenly beings found in Indian Buddhism and Chinese Taoism. \n\n\"Tennin\" are mentioned in Buddhist sutras, and these descriptions form the basis for depictions of the beings in Japanese art, sculpture, and theater. They are usually pictured as unnaturally beautiful women dressed in ornate, colorful kimonos (traditionally in five colors), exquisite jewelry, and flowing scarves that wrap loosely around their bodies. They usually carry lotus blossoms as a symbol of enlightenment or play musical instruments such as the biwa, or flute.\n\n\"Tennin\" are believed to live in the Buddhist heaven as the companions to the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. Some legends also make certain \"tennin\" solitary creatures living on mountain peaks. Pilgrims sometimes climb these mountains in order to meet the holy spirits.\n\n\"Tennin\" can fly, a fact generally indicated in art by their colored or feathered kimonos, called \"hagoromo\" (羽衣, lit. \"feather dress\"). In some legends, \"tennin\" are unable to fly without these kimonos (and thus cannot return to heaven). More rarely, they are shown with feathered wings. In a Noh play \"Hagoromo\", which bears a number of similarities to the Western swan maiden legends, \"tennyo\" come to the earth and take off their \"hagoromo\". A fisherman spies them and hides their clothes in order to force one to marry him. After some years he tells his wife what he did, and she finds her clothes and returns to heaven. The legend says it occurred on the beach of Miho no Matsubara, now a part of the city of Shizuoka.\n\n"}
{"id": "50780010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780010", "title": "The Babylon Bee", "text": "The Babylon Bee\n\nThe Babylon Bee is a satirical evangelical Christian website. The site publishes satirical stories focusing on well- known pastors, celebrities, and politicians.\nIt was created by Adam Ford and was launched on March 1, 2016. In 2018, Ford sold the website to Seth Dillon. As part of the deal, Kyle Mann, who had been head writer since September 2016, became editor in chief.\n\n\"The Babylon Bee\" copies the style of the \"The Onion\". It has published a spin-off book satirizing the Christian self-help industry: \"How to Be a Perfect Christian: Your Comprehensive Guide to Flawless Spiritual Living\".\n"}
{"id": "58965634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58965634", "title": "The Bamboo Cradle", "text": "The Bamboo Cradle\n\nThe Bamboo Cradle is a biographical story written by Avraham (Allan) Schwartzbaum about his adopted Taiwanese daughter who was converted to Judaism, Devorah.\n\nFirst published in 1988, the inspirational story tracks the story of Avraham and Barbara Schwartzbaum as they become more devout Jews after adopting a foundling in a Taiwan train station.\n\nAllan Schwartzbaum is in Taiwan as a visiting professor from the United States on a Fullbright scholarship teaching sociology. After nine years of marriage, he and his wife remain childless. He finds an abandoned baby in a train station and turns her in to the station manager. He and his wife end up tracking down the abandoned baby's whereabouts and adopt her.\n"}
{"id": "55939985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55939985", "title": "Three-self formula", "text": "Three-self formula\n\nThe three-self formula or three-self principle is a missiological strategy to establish indigenous churches. It was first coined in the late-19th century by various missions theorists, and is still used today in certain contexts such as in the Three-Self Patriotic Movement in mainland China.\n\n<section begin=early-history />\nThe three principles of self-governance, self-support (i.e., financial independence from foreigners), and self-propagation (i.e., indigenous missionary work) were first articulated by Henry Venn, General Secretary of the Church Missionary Society from 1841 to 1873, and Rufus Anderson, foreign secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. The principles were drafted formally during an 1892 conference in Shanghai of Christian missions reflecting an almost unilateral agreement that the future of the Chinese church depended on the indigenization of the leadership, and the finding of sufficiently Chinese modes of worship. Dixon Edward Hoste, head of the China Inland Mission, was known for putting the same principles into practice in the effort of assisting the Chinese to establish their own indigenous churches during the early 20th Century.<section end=early-history /> \n\nThe Three-Self Patriotic Movement in mainland China, now the officially sanctioned form of Protestant Christianity in China, adopted these principles as foundational for its establishment.\n\nThe mission historian David Bosch has argued that there needs to now be a fourth \"self,\" self-theologizing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211484", "title": "Tinku", "text": "Tinku\n\nTinku, a Bolivian Aymara tradition, began as a form of ritualistic combat. In the Aymara language, it means “meeting-encounter.” During this ritual, men and women from different communities will meet and begin the festivities by dancing. The women will then form circles and begin chanting while the men proceed to fight each other; rarely the women will join in the fighting as well. Large tinkus are held in Potosí during the first few weeks of May.\n\nThe story behind this cultural dance is that long ago, the Spanish conquistadors made the indigenous people their slaves. Tinku dance costumes are colorful and decorative. Women wear a dress, abarcas, and a hat and men wear an undershirt, pants, jacket, sandals (abarcas), and hard helmet like hats. Even though the people were slaves, they loved to dance, and would often fight, but never really hurting each other.\n\nBecause of the rhythmic way the men throw their fists at each other, and because they stand in a crouched stance going in circles around each other, a dance was formed. This dance, the Festive Tinku, simulates the traditional combat, bearing a warlike rhythm. The differences between the Andean tradition and the dance are the costumes, the role of women, and the fact that the dancers do not actually fight each other. The Festive Tinku has become a cultural dance for all of Bolivia, although it originated in Potosí.\n\nThe Bolivian tradition began with the indigenous belief in Pachamama, or Mother Nature. The combat is in praise of Pachamama, and any blood shed throughout the fighting is considered a sacrifice, in hopes of a fruitful harvest and fertility. Because of the violent nature of the tradition there have been fatalities, but each death is considered a sacrifice which brings forth life, and a donation to the land that fertilizes it. The brawls are also considered a means of release of frustration and anger between the separate communities. Tinkus usually last two to three days. During this time, participants will stop every now and then to eat, sleep, or drink.\n\nDuring the brawl itself, men will often carry rocks in their hands to have greater force in their punches, or they will just throw them at opponents. Sometimes, especially in the town of Macha in Potosí, where the brawl gets the most violent, men will wrap strips of cloth with shards of glass stuck to them around their fists to cause greater damage. Slingshots and whips are also used, though not as much as hand-to-hand combat. The last day of the fight is considered the most violent and police almost always have to separate the mass of bloody men and women.\n\nMen attend tinkus wearing traditional monteras, or thick helmet-like hats made of thick leather, resembling helmets from the Conquistadors. These helmets are often painted and decorated with feathers. Their pants are usually simple black or white with traditional embroidering near their feet. Often the men wear wide thick belts tied around their waist and stomach for more protection.\n\nThe Festive Tinku, a much more pleasant experience than a ceremonial tinku, has many differences. It has been accepted as a cultural dance in the whole nation of Bolivia. Tinku music has a loud constant drum beat to give it a native warlike feel, while charangos, guitars, and zampoñas (panpipes) play melodies. The dancers perform with combat like movements, following the heavy beat of the drum.\n\nFor men, the costumes are more colorful. Their monteras are usually decorated with long colorful feathers. Tinku Suits, or the outfits men wear during Festive Tinku performances, are usually made with bold colors to symbolize power and strength, instead of the neutral colors worn in ceremonial tinkus that help participants blend in. Women wear long embroidered skirts and colorful tops. Their costumes are completed by extravagant hats, painted and decorated with various long and colorful feathers and ribbons. Men and women wear walking sandals so they can move and jump easily.\n\nThe dance is performed in a crouching stance, bending at the waist. Arms are thrown out and there are various kicks, while the performers move in circles following the beat of the drum. Every jump from one foot to the next is followed by a hard stomp and a thrown fist to signify the violence from the ceremonial tinku. Many times the dancers will hold basic and traditional instruments in their hands that they will use as they stomp, just to add more noise for a greater effect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4708150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708150", "title": "Toltecayotl", "text": "Toltecayotl\n\nToltecayotl is a Nahuatl word derived from \"tōltēcātl\" which as used by the Nahuas to refer to the members of the Toltec civilization that preceded them in the basin of Mexico, as well as a generalized meaning of \"artisan\".\n\nThe introduction and dissemination of that title in the academic world is due to anthropologist Miguel León Portilla who, in 1980, published a book titled \"Tōltēcayōtl, aspects of the Nahuatl culture\".\n\nLeón Portilla's interpretation of the concept of Toltecayotl is based on a set of principles that were collected in the \"Huēhuehtlahtōlli\" or 'book of the ancient words', which includes traditional parliaments preserved by oral tradition and other documents. The main are the following:\n\n\"Toltequity\" is also the generic name given to the tōltēca knowledge, or knowledge left by the ancient inhabitants of Tollan-Xicocotitlan Tula (\"Tollan-Xicocotitlan\") (Hidalgo, Mexico). Not used in University environments, nor in archaeological analysis (see \"Tōltēcayōtl, aspects of the Nahuatl culture\" from Miguel León-Portilla, anthropologist and Mexican historian and leading authority in the field of thought and literature Nahuatl. Since 1988 he is emeritus researcher at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.)\n\nThe historical validity of toltequity as such tends to be controversial, historians do not even agree in the Toltec city which is known as such, Tula is usually considered (the settlement known as the \"Chico\") as the base around year 550, and is closely related to the Quetzalcoatl history, while there are four origins, all agree in that he was a King, son of Mixcōātl and Chimalma, and who later was worshipped as God, and later would become one of the main gods in the Anahuac. While the Toltec gave rise to the founding of a legendary city called Tula or Tōllan (\"Tōl-+-tlan\" = Capital, the name of the Toltec city itself was \"Xicocotitlan\").\n\nToltec was a generic name applied to all Mesoamerica inhabitants of. Derived from the root \"tol-\", which meant originally 'stem, Reed', which gave birth to the name of the city of Tula or \"Tollan\" ('(place with abundant) reeds') and due to the cultural tradition of the Toltec City (originally ' inhabitant of Tula') came to acquire the sense of 'educated person'. Toltec ideas received the name of tōltēcayōtl 'toltequity' and were made up of religious, artistic and scientific formulas that reflected the Mesoamerican cosmovision.\n\nThe definition of the Toltecs as a historical or ethnic group is a fact established by researchers in a round table in 1941. Currently, new age groups claim very disparate things to justify the native use of the term Toltec:\n\n<poem> </poem >\n\n<poem> </poem >\n\n<poem> </poem >\n\n<poem> </poem >\n\n<poem> </poem >\n\nCurrently, the term \"Toltec\" is used by various New Age groups and by neo-nagualism practitioners. On the other hand, groups who claim to rescue the national identity roots assert without proof, having recuperated the original use of the name, applying it to anyone who follows the Toltec life principles; these are not validated by the Popper's falsifiability principle\n\nThe idea of neo-shamanism groups, derived from the author Carlos Castaneda, is summarized in that a lifestyle can be lived with respect for elders, to obtain knowledge and preserve it without harming others.\n\nFrom the neo-shamanism movement point of view, Ken Eagle mentions in his book similar topics as Carlos Castaneda, with the exception that makes connection with elements of the army of United States (Rangers) rather than the term originally used by Castaneda, Stalkers. In the book the Toltec path also recounts situations that appear to be alien channels, which removes historical seriousness from the term.\n\nCarlos Castaneda refers generically to the Toltec as \"secret conservators\" in his book \"The Second Ring of Power\", and in recent years a movement has been created divided into two parts, on the one hand the books by Don Miguel Ruiz, that shows a series of ideas or moral principles, and on the other hand a series of courses New Age type, that advertises on the handling of a return to the roots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8445173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8445173", "title": "Way of the Celestial Masters", "text": "Way of the Celestial Masters\n\nThe Way of the Celestial Masters is a Chinese Daoist movement that was founded by Zhang Daoling in 142 CE. At its height, the movement controlled a theocratic state in what is now Sichuan.\n\nIn 142 CE Zhang Daoling announced that Laozi had appeared to him and commanded him to rid the world of decadence and establish a new state consisting only of the ‘chosen people.’ Zhang became the first Celestial Master, and began to spread his newly founded movement throughout the province of Sichuan. The movement was initially called the \"Way of the Five Pecks of Rice\", because each person wishing to join was required to donate five pecks of rice. The movement spread rapidly, particularly under his son and grandson Zhang Lu. Their rebellion against the Han dynasty is known as the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion. After the success of the rebellion in 184, they founded the theocratic state of Zhang Han in the Hanzhong Valley of Sichuan, enjoying full independence.\n\n正一 Zhengyi included in their religious liturgy, the Daoist writings of the Han, Laozi, the 3 caves and 7 parts. 方士 Fangshi originated in southern China. Sin was punished by ailments in the view of the Heavenly Masters. The Shangqing syncretized the Heavenly Masters with fangshi. Buddhism, Fangshi, and Heavenly Masters were synchronized in Lingbao.\n\nThe 180 precepts of the Celestial Masters were rules on morality. Stocking up riches was banned by Daoism.\n\nA 173 AD Sichuan stele provides physical proof for the Celestial Masters existence at its oldest. China's southeastern area may have seen the spraed of Celestial Masters in the Six Dynasties. At the start of their existence a large amount of religious text canon was already written by the Celestial Masters. Celestial Masters used an 精室 \"essential chamber\" for ceremonies. Specific attire was worn by Daoists. Celestial Master collectives had secretaries assigned to them on the basis of their population. Clerics of the Celestial Masters were referred to as 黃赤祭酒 \"libationers of the yellow and red\" in the era of the Six dynasties. There were stationery clerics and roving clerics. Distinctions between different social groups in civilization were recognized and utilized accordingly by the Celestial Masters. The Celestial Masters did not find monastic lifestyle attractive and rather passed down their teachings to their biological heirs. Children and widows were part of the Celestial Master groups. Tablets were clutched and prostrations were conducted by clerics. The Dadaojia Lingjie denounced the Yellow Turbans who were enemies of the Celestial Masters. A ritual master of the Celestial Masters may have been a 齋官 fast officer. Daoist Lingbao and Celestial Masters may have overlapped in customs with the Daoist Louguan ceremonies.\n\nBuilding temples, effigies and fasting was practiced by Daoists to gain blessings.\n\n寇謙之 Kou Qianzhi was the leader of the Celestial Masters north branch.\n\nCelestial Masters north branch under Kou Qianzhi worshipped divinities described in the 魏書 Book of Wei. Yin Xi and the Elder Lord are abesnt from the Celestial Masters of Kou Qianzhi.\n\nShandong, Hebei, Henan, Shaanxi, and Shanxi were where the Celestial Masters northern branch operated, while Louguan and Guanzhong Daoism developed around Henan, Shanxi and Shaanxi. Celestial Masters are not believed to be connected with stele founded in Shaanxi.\n\nAn anti Buddhist plan was concocted by the Celestial Masters under Kou Qianzhi along with Cui Hao under the Taiwu Emperor. The Celestial Masters of the north urged the persecution of Buddhists under the Taiwu Emperor in the Northern Wei, attacking Buddhism and the Buddha as wicked and as anti stability and anti family. Anti Buddhism was the position of Kou Qianzhi. There was no ban on the Celestial Masters despite the nofullfilment of Cui Hao and Kou Qianzhi's agenda in their anti Buddhist campaign.\n\n太上老君 Taishang Laojun was the Celestial Masters' main deiity.\n\nIn the Southern dynasties 正一經 Zhengyi Jing was part of the religious canon of the Celestial Masters. In the Tang and Sui DAoists reconciled the Zhengyi jing with the religious texts of the Lingbao.\n\nCelestial Masters and the nobility of northern China subdued the nobility of southern China during the Eastern Jin and Western Jin in Jiangnan in particular.\n\nThe Celestial Master canon was not found among the religious texts in the Lingbao caves.\n\nThe ceremonies of the Celestial Masters, Sanhuang, Lingbao, and Shangqing were categorized and grouped by Lu Xiujing.\n\nIn the Eastern Han the Celesial Masters spread to the northwest. Celestial Masters believed in communication with spirits.\n\nReligious canon was divided into 七部 7 sections during the Southern dynasties by the Celestial Masters. Non specific designations were used for the divinities of the most sublime station by the Celestial Masters. 道門定制 Daomen dingzhi was a religious texts composed in the Song dynasty. Buddhism, Celestial Masters and fangshi all contributed to the religious canon of Lingbao. Celestial Master petitions to divinities were copied by the canon of the Lingbao and fangshi rites were also copied by them. Sichuan was the origin of the Celestial Masters. Different beliefs were hed by the different groups of Daoists. 天師治儀 Tianshi zhiyi.\n\nIn 215, Zhang Lu submitted to Cao Cao, the ruler of the Wei Kingdom, surrendering his state in exchange for gaining state religion status for Tianshi Daoism. Zhang was given a title and land, as were several other family members and generals. His daughter was married to Cao Cao’s son, Cao Yu. His followers were forced to resettle in other parts of China, with one group being sent to the Chang'an area, and another being sent to Luoyang. Zhang relocated to the Han court until the Han Dynasty changed to the Wei. He then used his own popularity as a religious leader to lend legitimacy to the Wei, proclaiming that the Wei court had inherited divine authority from the Tao church, as well as from Confucian laws.\n\nThe collapse of the Wei Kingdom in 260 CE, along with the fall of Northern China to the Huns in 317, further scattered adherents to the Celestial Master. The Celestial Masters later reemerged in the 4th and 5th centuries as two distinct offshoots, the Northern and Southern Celestial Masters.\n\nCelestial Masters had prophecy rituals banned since what happens in the future it was supposed to be just known already by the member without rituals.\n\nFor the water, earth, and heaven officials, Celestial Masters wrote the 三官手書 sanguan shoushu.\n\nAfter the fall of Luoyang to non-Chinese invaders in 311, the remnants of the court fled to Jiankang (modern-day Nanjing) and established a new state known as the Eastern Jin dynasty. Among the court members who fled were members of the Celestial Masters. There is also evidence that after Zhang Lu’s submission to Cao Cao, numerous adherents fled south from Sichuan. These various followers of The Way of the Celestial Master coalesced to form a distinct form of Celestial Master Daoism known as the Southern Celestial Masters. The Southern Celestial Masters lasted as a distinct movement into the fifth century.\n\nKou Qianzhi, who was raised in a Celestial Master family, received two visions of Laozi in 415 and in 423. In 424, he brought the work that resulted from these visions to the court of the Northern Wei dynasty. The rulers put his works into practice, and Kou became the Celestial Master of the Daoist theocracy of the Northern Wei. After Kou died in 448, the prime minister, Cui Hao, became power hungry and began to insult the Wei rulers. Unhappy with his insubordination, the rulers had Cui executed in 450, and ended the Daoist theocracy.\n\nDuring the Yuan Dynasty, the Zhengyi Dao School of Daoism claimed lineage to the Celestial Masters. They became one of the two leading schools of Daoism in China, along with Quanzhen Dao. Zhengyi Daoists became common in the Jiangxi, Jiangsu, and Fujian provinces of China, as well as in Taiwan.\n\nZhang Yucai, the Celestial Master (38th) draw a handscroll of a dragon. Zhang Sicheng was the 39th and succeeded him.\n\nCelestial Master teachings and Daoxue were mixed together by Yu Ji, whose teacher was 吳澄 Wu Cheng.\n\nDaoism's biggest known conceptions are folk religion, the Celestial Masters and Quanzhen Daoism in the modern era since Wang Changyue launched a renaissance of the Quanzhen.\n\nThe Celestial Masters have survived into the 20th century. In 1949, after the communists gained power in the mainland, the Celestial Master fled to Taiwan. After the death of the 64th Master, a succession dispute arose between different branches of the family in Taiwan and mainland China.\n\nIn fact, the Way of the Celestial Masters have flourished during the reign of Communism. They regularly ordain priests at the Zhengyi Monastery at the Celestial Master’s Mansion in Mainland China.\n\nThe Way of the Celestial Masters have tribes worldwide, including the United States. Their western United States branch is headed by Grandmaster Jerry Alan Johnson and is known as the Temple of the Celestial Cloud.\n\nEach of the three different eras of the Celestial Masters had distinct beliefs. However, because the Southern and Northern Celestial Masters both descended directly from the initial movement founded by Zhang Daoling, there are many beliefs that are shared. A number of texts exist that give insight into early Celestial Master practice, in particular the \"Taiping Jing\" and the \"Xiang'er\" commentary to the Laozi.\n\nThe foundation of Daoist belief is that there is an energy source known as qi that pervades all things. The human body also contains qi, but it only has a limited amount of qi. Qi could be lost from the body through things such as sweating and ejaculation. The Celestial Masters shared these foundational Daoist beliefs, but modified them slightly.\n\nOne such change was that illness was caused by sin. This was because sin caused qi to leave the body. In order to cure any illness, repentance was a crucial factor in ensuring that the loss of qi could be staunched. Repentance could be accomplished by spending time in a 'Chamber of Silence,' and reflecting on one's sins, or by beating one's breasts and kowtowing to heaven. Illness could also be cured in other ways as well, among them using medicinal herbs and by listening to ritual music. Eating very little was also of extreme importance, and an ideal diet would consist of no food at all, but only noncorporeal things such as air, which the person could absorb through meditation.\n\nSexual practices (known as heqi, or 'The Union of the Breaths') were not part of Celestial Master Daoism. While the School of the Naturalists (and offshoot schools) advocate not ejaculating during sex in order to 'nourish the brain,' the Celestial Masters frowned upon this, and simply advocated celibacy as a way to avoid losing qi. In addition, the Celestial Masters thought that the macrobiotic method of stealing a woman's qi to replenish the man's own qi was completely wrong, and should not be practiced.\n\nThe Celestial Masters were the first group of organized Daoists. Before their foundation, Daoism did not exist as an organized religion. Being the first organized religious Daoists, the Celestial Masters are the ancestors of subsequent Daoist movements such as the Shangqing and Lingbao movements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5434223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5434223", "title": "World Literacy Crusade", "text": "World Literacy Crusade\n\nWorld Literacy Crusade (WLC) is a non-profit organisation formed in 1992 by the Rev. Alfreddie Johnson to fight illiteracy, and supported by the Church of Scientology. The group uses \"study technologies\" and \"drug rehabilitation technologies\" developed by L. Ron Hubbard, the Church's founder. It has been characterized as a \"Scientology front group\", and has been promoted by celebrity Scientologists such as Isaac Hayes and Anne Archer.\n\nThe LA Times reported in 2008 that about 100 protestors gathered outside of the World Literacy Crusade offices after being sold fake low cost housing vouchers for as much as $1500. Officials at WLC admitted to selling the free vouchers, but stated they did not know they were fake. The Compton, Californian offices of the WLC housed a drug detox program using “dry heat sweat therapy”. In 2015 the executive director of WLC, Hanan Islam and her adult children were arrested for Medi-Cal fraud and insurance fraud for billing for this detox program.\n"}
{"id": "186411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186411", "title": "Yuanfen", "text": "Yuanfen\n\nYuán () or Yuanfen (; Vietnamese: duyên phận), \"fateful coincidence,\" is a concept in the Chinese folk religion describing good and bad chances and potential relationships. It can also be translated as \"destiny, luck as conditioned by one's past,\" or \"natural affinity among friends.\" It is comparable to the concept of \"karma\" in Buddhism, but \"yuanfen\" is interactive rather than individual. The driving forces and causes behind \"yuánfèn\" are said to be actions done in previous incarnations. \n\nScholars Yang Kuo-shu and David Ho have analysed the psychological advantages of this belief: by assigning causality of negative events to \"yuanfen\" beyond personal control, people tend to maintain good relationships, avoid conflict, and promote social harmony; likewise, when positive events are seen as result of \"yuanfen\", personal credit is not directly assigned, which reduces pride on one side of the relationship and envy and resentment on the other.\n\nYang Kuo-shu and David Ho trace the origins of the term to traditional Buddhism and observe that \"yuan \" or \"yuanfen\" are important concepts in maintaining social harmony in personal relationships and group solidarity because they attribute cause or \"fateful coincidence\" to an outside factor beyond the control or responsibility of individuals. Yang and Ho's research found that these concepts are still very much alive in Chinese social life and culture among university students. The concepts of \"yuan \"and \"yuanfen \"and beliefs in predestination and fatalism have waned, and belief in yuan has waned as well, but continuity with past conceptions is still strong.\n\nMarc Moscowitz, an anthropologist, finds that \"yuanfen\" appears frequently in contemporary popular music. Here \"yuanfen\" refers to a “karmic relationship” with someone who was known in a previous life and is used to explain the end of a relationship that was not destined to work out.\n\n\nThe proverb: 百世修來同船渡，千載修得共枕眠 (Traditional)/百世修来同船渡，千载修得共枕眠 (Simplified) (pinyin: bǎi shì xiū lái tóng chuán dù, qiān zǎi xiū dé gòng zhěn mián).\n\n\n\"Affinity occasion\" could be a good translation of \"yuánfèn\" since \"yuánfèn\" really depends on the probability or a number of chances of meeting (or seeing) someone in the real world at any given time and space/place, however, although in reality haven't yet known each other for very long time, both persons felt as if they have already known each other for a very long time.\n\nThe concept of \"synchronicity\" from the Swiss psychologist Carl Jung is a good English translation of \"yuanfen\". The French writer Émile Deschamps claims in his memoirs that in 1805, he was treated to some plum pudding by a stranger named Monsieur de Fontgibu. Ten years later, the writer encountered plum pudding on the menu of a Paris restaurant and wanted to order some, but the waiter told him that the last dish had already been served to another customer, who turned out to be de Fontgibu. Many years later, in 1832, Deschamps was at a dinner and once again ordered plum pudding. He recalled the earlier incident and told his friends that only de Fontgibu was missing to make the setting complete—and in the same instant, the now senile de Fontgibu entered the room.\n\nOften \"yuánfèn\" is said to be the equivalent of \"fate\" (as is with the title of a 1984 movie, given the western name \"Behind the Yellow Line\", starring Leslie Cheung) or \"destiny\". However, these words do not have the element of the past playing a role in deciding the outcome of the uncertain future. The most common Chinese term for \"fate\" or \"destiny\" is \"mìngyùn\" (Traditional Chinese character: 命運; Simplified Chinese character: 命运), literally \"the turn of events in life\".\n\n\"Providence\" and \"predestination\" are not exact translations, because these words imply that the things happen by the will of God or gods, whereas \"yuánfèn\" does not necessarily involve divine intervention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17617076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17617076", "title": "Yunju Temple", "text": "Yunju Temple\n\nYunju Temple () is a Buddhist temple located in Fangshan District, 70 kilometers southwest of Beijing and contains the world's largest collection of stone Buddhist sutra steles in the world. Yunju Temple also contains one of only two extant woodblocks for the Chinese Buddhist Tripitaka in the world and rare copies of printed and manuscript Chinese Buddhist Tripitakas. It also has many historic pagodas dating from the Tang and Liao Dynasty.\n\nThe exact year Yunju Temple was built is unknown; however construction started during the Northern Qi Dynasty (550 CE – 570 CE). Around 611 CE, a high priest named Jingwan (? - 639 CE) made a vow to engraved Buddhist sutras on stone steles to insure Buddhism's future survival because of the challenges Chinese Buddhism had recently faced during the anti-Buddhist campaigns of Emperor Taiwu of Northern Wei and Emperor Wu of Northern Zhou. Venerable Jingwan therefore set in motion a movement to engraved Buddhist sutras on stone steles that continued for over a thousand years; the last stone sutra stele engraved is dated to 1691 CE --- although by that time. the belief in the impending disaster of the Degenerate Age had subsided. The stone sutra steles varied in size and were engraved on both sides. In addition to text, they were also engraved sometimes with images of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas as well as Siddhaṃ Letters. The collection of stone sutra steles is also sometimes called the Fangshan Stone Sutra. Venerable Jingwan initially vowed to engrave the entire Tripitaka; at least ten titles still survive today. His successors continued his work. One of them was involved in the engraving of the oldest extant copy (dated to 661 CE) of Tripitaka Master Xuanzang’s 649 CE translation of the Heart Sutra. During the Sui and Tang Dynasties, donors oftentimes determined which sutra to engraved on the stone stele; hence many sutras were engraved multiple times. Royal patronage began in the Sui Dynasty (see below for rediscovery of Buddha relics). During the Tang Dynasty, Princess Jinxian (ca. 713 - 755 CE) petition Emperor Xuanzong to donate over 4,000 manuscript scrolls of the Buddhist Tripitaka and land to support Yunju Temple's engraving of stone sutra steles. There is still a pagoda commemorating Princess Jinxian's support on the top of Fangshan mountain. During the Liao Dynasty, royal patronage attempted to complete the engraving of the incomplete Mahayana sutras and missing Mahayana titles. Also during this time, royal patronage attempted to engrave on stone stele the entire Liao Dynasty's Khitan Tripitaka (). Because the Sui and Tang Dynasty manuscripts on which the Sui and Tang Dynasty stone steles were based as well as the printed copies of the Khitan Tripitaka on which the Liao Dynasty stone sutras were based have largely disappeared, this makes the Fangshan stone sutras of Yunju Temple a rare treasure house of Buddhist sutras. Since these stone steles were engraved with an eye on fidelity to the original, they can be used to potentially correct later printed Tripitakas. Since Venerable Jingwan's time a total of nine caves were excavated and filled with stone sutra steles, two underground depository rooms were also excavated and numerous temple halls were added and repaired. The most famous cave is Cave No. 5 popularly known as Leiyin Cave (）. This cave is opened for public viewing and is a large cave covered with stone sutra steles on four walls with an area for Buddhist ceremonies. Formerly a statue of Maitreya, the next Buddha was enshrined here but it was removed by unknown persons during the early 1940s. Based on inscriptions on a stone stele found in a refreshment/rest stop pavilion donated by a Ming Dynasty Buddhist stating the presence of Buddha relics or śarīra in Leiyin Cave, on November 27, 1981, archaeologists rediscovered the flesh śarīra (of Buddha) donated by Emperor Yangdi of the Sui Dynasty dated to April 8, 616 CE.<br><br>\nIn total, 1,122 Buddhist sutras in 3572 volumes were produced at the temple consisting of over 14,200 stone steles engraved on both sides.<br><br>\nThere are also over 22,000 scrolls of rare printed or manuscript sutras kept at Yunju Temple. The Ming Dynasty's Yongle Southern Tripitaka (1420 CE) and Yongle Northern Tripitaka (1440 CE) are stored here as well as individual printed sutras and manuscripts.<br><br>\nYunju Temple also has one of only two extant complete woodblocks of the Chinese Tripitaka in the world : namely the Qianlong Tripitaka (1733). Carved on over 77,000 blocks, it attracts a large number of visitors. <br><br>\nYunju Temple also has two bone relics of the Buddha (śarīra) available for public viewing. <br><br>\nIn the early 1940s, a significant portion of the temple was destroyed; however substantial portions have since been restored.\n<br><br>\n\nThere were originally six halls in the temple, arranged from east to west. On both sides of the halls, there was accommodation for guests and dormitories for monks. \n\nThe temple contains a total of twelve pagodas from the Tang and Liao dynasties and three tomb pagodas from the Qing dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "34533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34533", "title": "Zoroastrianism", "text": "Zoroastrianism\n\nZoroastrianism, or Mazdayasna, is one of the world's oldest religions that remains active. It is a monotheistic faith (i.e. a single creator god), centered in a dualistic cosmology of good and evil and an eschatology predicting the ultimate destruction of evil. Ascribed to the teachings of the Iranian-speaking prophet Zoroaster (also known as Zarathustra), it exalts a deity of wisdom, Ahura Mazda (\"Wise Lord\"), as its Supreme Being. Major features of Zoroastrianism, such as messianism, judgment after death, heaven and hell, and free will have influenced other religious systems, including Second Temple Judaism, Gnosticism, Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism.\n\nWith possible roots dating back to the second millennium BCE, Zoroastrianism enters recorded history in the 5th-century BCE. Along with a Mithraic Median prototype and a Zurvanist Sassanid successor, it served as the state religion of the pre-Islamic Iranian empires for more than a millennium, from around 600 BCE to 650 CE. Zoroastrianism was suppressed from the 7th century onwards following the Muslim conquest of Persia of 633–654. Recent estimates place the current number of Zoroastrians at around 190,000, with most living in India and in Iran; their number is declining. In 2015, there were reports of up to 100,000 converts in Iraqi Kurdistan. Besides the Zoroastrian diaspora, the older Mithraic faith Yazdânism is still practised amongst Kurds.\n\nThe most important texts of the religion are those of the \"Avesta\", which includes the writings of Zoroaster known as the Gathas, enigmatic poems that define the religion's precepts, and the Yasna, the scripture. The full name by which Zoroaster addressed the deity is: Ahura, The Lord Creator, and Mazda, Supremely Wise. The religious philosophy of Zoroaster divided the early Iranian gods of Proto-Indo-Iranian tradition, but focused on responsibility, and did not create a devil \"per se\". Zoroaster proclaimed that there is only one God, the singularly creative and sustaining force of the Universe, and that human beings are given a right of choice. Because of cause and effect, they are responsible for the consequences of their choices. The contesting force to Ahura Mazda was called Angra Mainyu, or angry spirit. Post-Zoroastrian scripture introduced the concept of Ahriman, the Devil, which was effectively a personification of Angra Mainyu.\n\nZoroastrianism's creator Ahura Mazda, through the Spenta Mainyu (Good Spirit, \"Bounteous Immortals\") is an all-good \"father\" of \"Asha\" (Truth, \"order, justice\"), in opposition to \"Druj\" (\"falsehood, deceit\") and no evil originates from \"him\". \"He\" and his works are evident to humanity through the six primary Amesha Spentas and the host of other Yazatas, through whom worship of Mazda is ultimately directed. Spenta Mainyu adjoined unto \"truth\", oppose the Spirit's opposite, Angra Mainyu and its forces born of Akəm Manah (\"evil thinking\").\n\nZoroastrianism has no major theological divisions, though it is not uniform; modern-era influences having a significant impact on individual and local beliefs, practices, values and vocabulary, sometimes merging with tradition and in other cases displacing it. In Zoroastrianism, the purpose in life is to \"be among those who renew the world...to make the world progress towards perfection\". Its basic maxims include:\n\n\nThe name \"Zoroaster\" is a Greek rendering of the name \"Zarathustra\". He is known as \"Zartosht\" and \"Zardosht\" in Persian and \"Zaratosht\" in Gujarati. The Zoroastrian name of the religion is \"Mazdayasna\", which combines \"Mazda-\" with the Avestan language word \"yasna\", meaning \"worship, devotion\". In English, an adherent of the faith is commonly called a Zoroastrian or a Zarathustrian. An older expression still used today is \"Behdin\", meaning \"The best Religion | Beh < Middle Persian Weh (good) + Din < Middle Persian dēn < Avestan Daēnā\". In Zoroastrian liturgy the term is used as a title for an individual who has been formally inducted into the religion in a \"Navjote\" ceremony.\n\nThe term \"Mazdaism\" () is a typical 19th century construct, taking \"Mazda-\" from the name Ahura Mazda and adding the suffix \"-ism\" to suggest a belief system. The March 2001 draft edition of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" also records an alternate form, \"Mazdeism\", perhaps derived from the French \"Mazdéisme\", which first appeared in 1871.\n\nZoroastrian philosophy is identified as having been known to Italian Renaissance Europe through an image of Zoroaster in Raphael's \"School of Athens\" by Giorgio Vasari in 1550. The first surviving reference to Zoroaster in English scholarship is attributed to Thomas Browne (1605–1682), who briefly refers to the prophet in his 1643 \"Religio Medici\", followed by the \"Oxford English Dictionary's\" record of the 1743 (Warburton, \"Pope's Essay\"). The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" records use of the term \"Zoroastrianism\" in 1874 in Archibald Sayce's \"Principles of Comparative Philology\".\n\nZoroastrians believe that there is one universal, transcendent, supreme god, Ahura Mazda, or the \"Wise Lord\". (\"Ahura\" means \"Being\" and \"Mazda\" means \"Mind\" in a sacred Old Iranian language called Avestan). Zoroaster keeps the two attributes separate as two different concepts in most of the Gathas and also consciously uses a masculine word for one concept and a feminine for the other, as if to distract from an anthropomorphism of his divinity. Zoroaster claimed that Ahura Mazda is almighty, though not omnipotent.\n\nOther scholars assert that since Zoroastrianism's divinity covers both being and mind as immanent entities, it is better described as a belief in an immanent self-creating universe with consciousness as its special attribute, thereby putting Zoroastranism in the pantheistic fold where it can be easily traced to its shared origin with Indian Brahmanism. In any case, Ahura Mazda's creation—evident is widely agreed as \"asha\", truth and order—is the antithesis of chaos, which is evident as \"druj\", falsehood and disorder. The resulting conflict involves the entire universe, including humanity, which has an active role to play in the conflict.\n\nIn Zoroastrian tradition, the \"chaotic\" is represented by Angra Mainyu (also referred to as \"Ahriman\"), the \"Destructive Principle\", while the benevolent is represented through Ahura Mazda's Spenta Mainyu, the instrument or \"Bounteous Principle\" of the act of creation. It is through Spenta Mainyu that transcendental Ahura Mazda is immanent in humankind, and through which the Creator interacts with the world. According to Zoroastrian cosmology, in articulating the Ahuna Vairya formula, Ahura Mazda made His ultimate triumph evident to Angra Mainyu. As expressions and aspects of Creation, Ahura Mazda emanated the Amesha Spentas (\"Bounteous Immortals\"), that are each the hypostasis and representative of one aspect of that Creation. These Amesha Spenta are in turn assisted by a league of lesser principles, the Yazatas, each \"Worthy of Worship\" and each again a hypostasis of a moral or physical aspect of creation.\n\nZoroastrian theology includes a duty to protect nature. This has led some to proclaim it as the \"world's first ecological religion.\" Some have argued that, since the protections are part of a ritual, they stem from theology rather than ecology. Others have responded that, since as one of its strongest precepts the scripture calls for the protection of water, earth, fire and air it is, in effect, an ecological religion: \"It is not surprising that Mazdaism ... is called the first ecological religion. The reverence for Yazatas (divine spirits) emphasizes the preservation of nature (Avesta: Yasnas 1.19, 3.4, 16.9; Yashts 6.3–4, 10.13).\" However, this particular assertion is undermined in that Zoroastrians have a duty to exterminate \"evil\" species.\n\nThe religion states that active participation in life through good deeds is necessary to ensure happiness and to keep chaos at bay. This active participation is a central element in Zoroaster's concept of free will, and Zoroastrianism rejects all forms of monasticism. Ahura Mazda will ultimately prevail over the evil Angra Mainyu or Ahriman, at which point the universe will undergo a cosmic renovation and time will end. In the final renovation, all of creation—even the souls of the dead that were initially banished to \"darkness\"—will be reunited in Ahura Mazda, returning to life in the undead form. At the end of time, a savior-figure (a Saoshyant) will bring about a final renovation of the world (\"frashokereti\"), in which the dead will be revived.\n\nIn Zoroastrian tradition, life is a temporary state in which a mortal is expected to actively participate in the continuing battle between truth and falsehood. Prior to being born, the \"urvan\" (soul) of an individual is still united with its \"fravashi\" (guardian spirit), which has existed since Mazda created the universe. During life, the \"fravashi\" acts as a guardian and protector. On the fourth day after death, the soul is reunited with its \"fravashi\", in which the experiences of life in the material world are collected for the continuing battle in the spiritual world. For the most part, Zoroastrianism does not have a notion of reincarnation, at least not until the final renovation of the world. Followers of Ilm-e-Kshnoom in India believe in reincarnation and practice vegetarianism, two principles unknown to Orthodox Zoroastrianism, although Zoroaster was himself a vegetarian.\nIn Zoroastrianism, water (\"apo\", \"aban\") and fire (\"atar\", \"azar\") are agents of ritual purity, and the associated purification ceremonies are considered the basis of ritual life. In Zoroastrian cosmogony, water and fire are respectively the second and last primordial elements to have been created, and scripture considers fire to have its origin in the waters. Both water and fire are considered life-sustaining, and both water and fire are represented within the precinct of a fire temple. Zoroastrians usually pray in the presence of some form of fire (which can be considered evident in any source of light), and the culminating rite of the principle act of worship constitutes a \"strengthening of the waters\". Fire is considered a medium through which spiritual insight and wisdom is gained, and water is considered the source of that wisdom.\n\nA corpse is considered a host for decay, i.e., of \"druj\". Consequently, scripture enjoins the safe disposal of the dead in a manner such that a corpse does not pollute the good creation. These injunctions are the doctrinal basis of the fast-fading traditional practice of ritual exposure, most commonly identified with the so-called Towers of Silence for which there is no standard technical term in either scripture or tradition. Ritual exposure is only practiced by Zoroastrian communities of the Indian subcontinent, in locations where it is not illegal and diclofenac poisoning has not led to the virtual extinction of scavenger birds. Other Zoroastrian communities either cremate their dead, or bury them in graves that are cased with lime mortar.\n\nWhile the Parsees in India have traditionally been opposed to proselytizing, and even considered it a crime for which the culprit may face expulsion, Iranian Zoroastrians have never been opposed to conversion, and the practice has been endorsed by the Council of Mobeds of Tehran. While the Iranian authorities do not permit proselytizing within Iran, Iranian Zoroastrians in exile have actively encouraged missionary activities, with The Zarathushtrian Assembly in Los Angeles and the International Zoroastrian Centre in Paris as two prominent centres. As in many other faiths, Zoroastrians are encouraged to marry others of the same faith, but this is not a requirement.\n\nThe roots of Zoroastrianism are thought to have emerged from a common prehistoric Indo-Iranian religious system dating back to the early 2nd millennium BCE. The prophet Zoroaster himself, though traditionally dated to the 6th century BCE, is thought by many modern historians to have been a reformer of the polytheistic Iranian religion who lived in the 10th century BCE. Zoroastrianism as a religion was not firmly established until several centuries later. Zoroastrianism enters recorded history in the mid-5th century BCE. Herodotus' \"The Histories\" (completed \"c.\" 440 BCE) includes a description of Greater Iranian society with what may be recognizably Zoroastrian features, including exposure of the dead.\n\n\"The Histories\" is a primary source of information on the early period of the Achaemenid era (648–330 BCE), in particular with respect to the role of the Magi. According to Herodotus i.101, the Magi were the sixth tribe of the Medes (until the unification of the Persian empire under Cyrus the Great, all Iranians were referred to as \"Mede\" or \"Mada\" by the peoples of the Ancient World), who appear to have been the priestly caste of the Mesopotamian-influenced branch of Zoroastrianism today known as Zurvanism, and who wielded considerable influence at the courts of the Median emperors.\n\nFollowing the unification of the Median and Persian empires in 550 BCE, Cyrus the Great and, later, his son Cambyses II curtailed the powers of the Magi after they had attempted to sow dissent following their loss of influence. In 522 BCE, the Magi revolted and set up a rival claimant to the throne. The usurper, pretending to be Cyrus' younger son Smerdis, took power shortly thereafter. Owing to the despotic rule of Cambyses and his long absence in Egypt, \"the whole people, Persians, Medes and all the other nations\" acknowledged the usurper, especially as he granted a remission of taxes for three years (Herodotus iii. 68).\n\nDarius I and later Achaemenid emperors acknowledged their devotion to Ahura Mazda in inscriptions, as attested to several times in the Behistun inscription, and appear to have continued the model of coexistence with other religions. Whether Darius was a follower of Zoroaster has not been conclusively established, since devotion to Ahura Mazda was (at the time) not necessarily an indication of an adherence to Zoroaster's teaching. A number of the Zoroastrian texts that today are part of the greater compendium of the Avesta have been attributed to that period. This calendar attributed to the Achaemenid period is still in use today. Additionally, the divinities, or yazatas, are present-day Zoroastrian angels (Dhalla, 1938).\n\nAccording to later Zoroastrian legend (\"Denkard\" and the \"Book of Arda Viraf\"), many sacred texts were lost when Alexander the Great's troops invaded Persepolis and subsequently destroyed the royal library there. Diodorus Siculus's \"Bibliotheca historica\", which was completed circa 60 BCE, appears to substantiate this Zoroastrian legend (Diod. 17.72.2–17.72.6). According to one archaeological examination, the ruins of the palace of Xerxes bear traces of having been burned (Stolze, 1882). Whether a vast collection of (semi-)religious texts \"written on parchment in gold ink\", as suggested by the \"Denkard\", actually existed remains a matter of speculation, but is unlikely. Given that many of the \"Denkard\"s statements-as-fact have since been refuted by scholars, the tale of the library is widely accepted to be fictional (Kellens, 2002).\n\nAlexander's conquests largely displaced Zoroastrianism with Hellenistic beliefs, though the religion continued to be practiced many centuries following the demise of the Achaemenids in mainland Persia and the core regions of the former Achaemenid Empire, most notably Anatolia, Mesopotamia, and the Caucasus. In the Cappadocian kingdom, whose territory was formerly an Achaemenid possession, Persian colonists, cut off from their co-religionists in Iran proper, continued to practice the faith [Zoroastrianism] of their forefathers; and there Strabo, observing in the first century B.C., records (XV.3.15) that these \"fire kindlers\" possessed many \"holy places of the Persian Gods\", as well as fire temples. Strabo furthermore relates, were \"noteworthy enclosures; and in their midst there is an altar, on which there is a large quantity of ashes and where the magi keep the fire ever burning.\" It was not until the end of the Parthian period (247 – 224) that Zoroastrianism would receive renewed interest.\n\nAs late as the Parthian period, a form of Zoroastrianism was without a doubt the dominant religion in the Armenian lands. The Sassanids aggressively promoted the Zurvanite form of Zoroastrianism, often building fire temples in captured territories to promote the religion. During the period of their centuries long suzerainty over the Caucasus, the Sassanids made attempts to promote Zoroastrianism there with considerable successes, and it was prominent in the pre-Christian Caucasus (especially modern-day Azerbaijan).\n\nDue to its ties to the Christian Roman Empire, Persia's arch-rival since Parthian times, the Sassanids were suspicious of Roman Christianity, and, after the reign of Constantine the Great, sometimes persecuted it. The Sassanid authority clashed with their Armenian subjects in the Battle of Avarayr ( 451), making them officially break with the Roman Church. But the Sassanids tolerated or even sometimes favored the Christianity of the Church of the East. The acceptance of Christianity in Georgia (Caucasian Iberia) saw the Zoroastrian religion there slowly but surely decline, but as late the 5th century it was still widely practised as something like a second established religion.\n\nMost of the Sassanid Empire was overthrown by the Arabs over the course of 16 years in the 7th century. Although the administration of the state was rapidly Islamicized and subsumed under the Umayyad Caliphate, in the beginning \"there was little serious pressure\" exerted on newly subjected people to adopt Islam. Because of their sheer numbers, the conquered Zoroastrians had to be treated as \"dhimmis\" (despite doubts of the validity of this identification that persisted down the centuries), which made them eligible for protection. Islamic jurists took the stance that only Muslims could be perfectly moral, but \"unbelievers might as well be left to their iniquities, so long as these did not vex their overlords.\" In the main, once the conquest was over and \"local terms were agreed on\", the Arab governors protected the local populations in exchange for tribute.\n\nThe Arabs adopted the Sassanid tax-system, both the land-tax levied on land owners and the poll-tax levied on individuals, called \"jizya\", a tax levied on non-Muslims (i.e., the \"dhimmi\"s). In time, this poll-tax came to be used as a means to humble the non-Muslims, and a number of laws and restrictions evolved to emphasize their inferior status. Under the early orthodox caliphs, as long as the non-Muslims paid their taxes and adhered to the \"dhimmi\" laws, administrators were enjoined to leave non-Muslims \"in their religion and their land.\" (Caliph Abu Bakr, qtd. in ).\n\nUnder Abbasid rule, Muslim Iranians (who by then were in the majority) increasingly found ways to taunt Zoroastrians, and distressing them became a popular sport. For example, in the 9th century, a deeply venerated cypress tree in Khorasan (which Parthian-era legend supposed had been planted by Zoroaster himself) was felled for the construction of a palace in Baghdad, away. In the 10th century, on the day that a Tower of Silence had been completed at much trouble and expense, a Muslim official contrived to get up onto it, and to call the \"adhan\" (the Muslim call to prayer) from its walls. This was made a pretext to annex the building. Another popular means to distress Zoroastrians was to maltreat dogs, as these animals are sacred in Zoroastrianism. Such baiting, which was to continue down the centuries, was indulged in by all; not only by high officials, but by the general uneducated population as well.\n\nUltimately, Muslim scholars like Al-Biruni found little records left of the belief of, for instance, the Khawarizmians, because figures like Qutayba ibn Muslim “extinguished and ruined in every possible way all those who knew how to write and read the Khawarizmi writing, who knew the history of the country and who studied their sciences.” As a result, “these things are involved in so much obscurity that it is impossible to obtain an accurate knowledge of the history of the country since the time of Islam...”\n\nThough subject to a new leadership and harassment, the Zoroastrians were able to continue in their former ways. But there was a slow but steady social and economic pressure to convert. The nobility and city-dwellers were the first to convert, with Islam more slowly being accepted among the peasantry and landed gentry. \"Power and worldly-advantage\" now lay with followers of Islam, and although the \"official policy was one of aloof contempt, there were individual Muslims eager to proselytize and ready to use all sorts of means to do so.\"\n\nTwo decrees in particular encouraged the transition to a preponderantly Islamic society. The first edict, adapted from an Arsacid and Sassanid one (but in those to the advantage of Zoroastrians), was that only a Muslim could own Muslim slaves or indentured servants. Thus, a bonded individual owned by a Zoroastrian could automatically become a freeman by converting to Islam. The other edict was that if one male member of a Zoroastrian family converted to Islam, he instantly inherited all its property.\n\nIn time, a tradition evolved by which Islam was made to appear as a partly Iranian religion. One example of this was a legend that Husayn, son of the fourth caliph Ali and grandson of Islam's prophet Muhammad, had married a captive Sassanid princess named Shahrbanu. This \"wholly fictitious figure\" was said to have borne Husayn a son, the historical fourth Shi'a imam, who claimed that the caliphate rightly belonged to him and his descendants, and that the Umayyads had wrongfully wrested it from him. The alleged descent from the Sassanid house counterbalanced the Arab nationalism of the Umayyads, and the Iranian national association with a Zoroastrian past was disarmed. Thus, according to scholar Mary Boyce, \"it was no longer the Zoroastrians alone who stood for patriotism and loyalty to the past.\" The \"damning indictment\" that becoming Muslim was Un-Iranian only remained an idiom in Zoroastrian texts.\n\nWith Iranian (especially Persian) support, the Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads in 750, and in the subsequent caliphate government—that nominally lasted until 1258—Muslim Iranians received marked favor in the new government, both in Iran and at the capital in Baghdad. This mitigated the antagonism between Arabs and Iranians, but sharpened the distinction between Muslims and non-Muslims. The Abbasids zealously persecuted heretics, and although this was directed mainly at Muslim sectarians, it also created a harsher climate for non-Muslims. Although the Abbasids were deadly foes of Zoroastrianism, the brand of Islam they propagated throughout Iran became in turn ever more \"Zoroastrianized\", making it easier for Iranians to embrace Islam.\n\nDespite economic and social incentives to convert, Zoroastrianism remained strong in some regions, particularly in those furthest away from the Caliphate capital at Baghdad. In Bukhara (in present-day Uzbekistan), resistance to Islam required the 9th-century Arab commander Qutaiba to convert his province four times. The first three times the citizens reverted to their old religion. Finally, the governor made their religion \"difficult for them in every way\", turned the local fire temple into a mosque, and encouraged the local population to attend Friday prayers by paying each attendee two dirhams. The cities where Arab governors resided were particularly vulnerable to such pressures, and in these cases the Zoroastrians were left with no choice but to either conform or migrate to regions that had a more amicable administration.\n\nThe 9th century came to define the great number of Zoroastrian texts that were composed or re-written during the 8th to 10th centuries (excluding copying and lesser amendments, which continue for some time thereafter). All of these works are in the Middle Persian dialect of that period (free of Arabic words), and written in the difficult Pahlavi script (hence the adoption of the term \"Pahlavi\" as the name of the variant of the language, and of the genre, of those Zoroastrian books). If read aloud, these books would still have been intelligible to the laity. Many of these texts are responses to the tribulations of the time, and all of them include exhortations to stand fast in their religious beliefs. Some, such as the \"Denkard\", are doctrinal defenses of the religion, while others are explanations of theological aspects (such as the Bundahishn's) or practical aspects (e.g., explanation of rituals) of it. About sixty such works are known to have existed, of which some are known only from references to them in other works.\n\nIn Khorasan in the northeastern Iran, a 10th-century Iranian nobleman brought together four Zoroastrian priests to transcribe a Sassanid-era Middle Persian work titled \"Book of the Lord\" (\"Khwaday Namag\") from Pahlavi script into Arabic script. This transcription, which remained in Middle Persian prose (an Arabic version, by al-Muqaffa, also exists), was completed in 957 and subsequently became the basis for Firdausi's \"Book of Kings\". It became enormously popular among both Zoroastrians and Muslims, and also served to propagate the Sassanid justification for overthrowing the Arsacids (i.e., that the Sassanids had restored the faith to its \"orthodox\" form after the Hellenistic Arsacids had allowed Zoroastrianism to become corrupt).\n\nAmong migrations were those to cities in (or on the margins of) the great salt deserts, in particular to Yazd and Kerman, which remain centers of Iranian Zoroastrianism to this day. Yazd became the seat of the Iranian high priests during Mongol Il-Khanate rule, when the \"best hope for survival [for a non-Muslim] was to be inconspicuous.\" Crucial to the present-day survival of Zoroastrianism was a migration from the northeastern Iranian town of \"Sanjan in south-western Khorasan\", to Gujarat, in western India. The descendants of that group are today known as the \"Parsis\"—\"as the Gujaratis, from long tradition, called anyone from Iran\"—who today represent the larger of the two groups of Zoroastrians.\n\nThe struggle between Zoroastrianism and Islam declined in the 10th and 11th centuries. Local Iranian dynasties, \"all vigorously Muslim,\" had emerged as largely independent vassals of the Caliphs. In the 16th century, in one of the early letters between Iranian Zoroastrians and their co-religionists in India, the priests of Yazd lamented that \"no period [in human history], not even that of Alexander, had been more grievous or troublesome for the faithful than 'this millennium of the demon of Wrath'.\"\n\nZoroastrianism has survived into the modern period, particularly in India, where it has been present since about the 9th century.\n\nToday Zoroastrianism can be divided in three different sects or dominions: restorationists, progressives and traditionalists (or isolationists). Traditionalists or isolationists are almost solely Parsis and accept, beside the Gathas and Avesta, also the Middle Persian works called 'Nasks of the Sassanians'. They generally do not allow conversion to the faith. Therefore, for someone to be a Zoroastrian, they must be born of Zoroastrian parents. Some traditionalists recognize the children of mixed marriages as Zoroastrians.\n\nFrom the 19th century onward, the Parsis gained a reputation for their education and widespread influence in all aspects of society.\nThey played an instrumental role in the economic development of the region over many decades; several of the best-known business conglomerates of India are run by Parsi-Zoroastrians, including Tata, Godrej, Wadia families, and others.\n\nThough the Armenians share a rich history affiliated with Zoroastrianism (that eventually declined with the advent of Christianity), reports indicate that there were Zoroastrian Armenians in Armenia until the 1920s.\n\nA comparatively minor population persisted in Central Asia, the Caucasus, and Persia, and an expatriate community has formed in the United States (some from India), and to a lesser extent in the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. Many of these are titled restorationists, progressives or \"reformists\". Progressives generally accept the Yashts and the Visperad texts of the Avesta as obligatory, along with the Gathas. Restorationists refer only to the compositions of Zoroaster, and thus only consider the Gathas, the other texts only having value as far as they elaborate on some Gathic point and do not contradict the Gathic teaching.\n\nAt the request of the government of Tajikistan, UNESCO declared 2003 a year to celebrate the \"3000th anniversary of Zoroastrian culture\", with special events throughout the world. In 2011 the Tehran Mobeds Anjuman announced that for the first time in the history of Iran and of the Zoroastrian communities worldwide, women had been ordained in Iran and North America as mobedyars, meaning women mobeds (Zoroastrian priests). The women hold official certificates and can perform the lower-rung religious functions and can initiate people into the religion.\n\nSome scholars believe that key concepts of Zoroastrian eschatology and demonology influenced the Abrahamic religions. On the other hand, Zoroastrianism itself inherited ideas from other belief systems and, like other \"practiced\" religions, accommodates some degree of syncretism. Zoroastrian influences on Hungarian, Slavic, Ossetian, Turkic and Mongol mythologies have also been noted, all of which bearing extensive light/dark dualisms and possible sun god theonyms related to Hvare-khshaeta.\n\nThe religion of Zoroastrianism is closest to Vedic religion. Some historians believe that Zoroastrianism, along with similar philosophical revolutions in South Asia were interconnected strings of reformation against a common Indo-Aryan thread. Many traits of Zoroastrianism can be traced back to the culture and beliefs of the prehistorical Indo-Iranian period, that is, to the time before the migrations that led to the Indo-Aryans and Iranics becoming distinct peoples. Zoroastrianism consequently shares elements with the historical Vedic religion that also has its origins in that era. An example is the relation of the Avestan word \"Ahura\" (\"Ahura Mazda\") and the Vedic Sanskrit word \"Asura\" (\"demon; evil demigod\"), and \"Daeva\" (\"demon\") and \"Deva\" (\"god\"). They are descended from a common Proto-Indo-Iranian religion. Vedic religious texts are replete with people from far flung countries practising or leaving Aryan teachings.\n\nZoroastrianism is often compared with Manichaeism. Nominally an Iranian religion, it has its origins in Middle-Eastern Gnosticism. Superficially such a comparison seems apt, as both are dualistic and Manichaeism adopted many of the Yazatas for its own pantheon. Gherardo Gnoli, in \"The Encyclopaedia of Religion\", says that \"we can assert that Manichaeism has its roots in the Iranian religious tradition and that its relationship to Mazdaism, or Zoroastrianism, is more or less like that of Christianity to Judaism\".\n\nThey are however quite different. Manichaeism equated evil with matter and good with spirit, and was therefore particularly suitable as a doctrinal basis for every form of asceticism and many forms of mysticism. Zoroastrianism, on the other hand, rejects every form of asceticism, has no dualism of matter and spirit (only of good and evil), and sees the spiritual world as not very different from the natural one (the word \"paradise\", or \"pairi.daeza\", applies equally to both.)\n\nManichaeism's basic doctrine was that the world and all corporeal bodies were constructed from the substance of Satan, an idea that is fundamentally at odds with the Zoroastrian notion of a world that was created by God and that is all good, and any corruption of it is an effect of the bad. From what may be inferred from many Manichean texts and a few Zoroastrian sources, the adherents of the two religions (or at least their respective priesthoods) despised each other intensely.\n\nMany aspects of Zoroastrianism are present in the culture and mythologies of the peoples of the Greater Iran, not least because Zoroastrianism was a dominant influence on the people of the cultural continent for a thousand years. Even after the rise of Islam and the loss of direct influence, Zoroastrianism remained part of the cultural heritage of the Iranian language-speaking world, in part as festivals and customs, but also because Ferdowsi incorporated a number of the figures and stories from the Avesta in his epic \"Shāhnāme\", which in turn is pivotal to Iranian identity.\n\nThe Avesta is the religious book of Zoroastrians that contains a collection of sacred texts. The history of the Avesta is found in many Pahlavi texts. According to tradition, Ahura Mazda created the twenty-one nasks which Zoroaster brought to Vishtaspa. Here, two copies were created, one which was put in the house of archives, and the other put in the Imperial treasury. During Alexander's conquest of Persia, the Avesta was burned, and the scientific sections that the Greeks could use were dispersed among themselves.\n\nUnder the reign of King Valax of the Arsacis Dynasty, an attempt was made to restore the Avesta. During the Sassanid Empire, Ardeshir ordered Tansar, his high priest, to finish the work that King Valax had started. Shapur I sent priests to locate the scientific text portions of the Avesta that were in the possession of the Greeks. Under Shapur II, Arderbad Mahrespandand revised the canon to ensure its orthodox character, while under Khosrow I, the Avesta was translated into Pahlavi.\n\nThe compilation of these ancient texts was successfully established underneath the Mazdean priesthood and the Sassanian emperors. Only a fraction of the texts survive today. The later manuscripts all date from this millennium, the latest being from 1288, 590 years after the fall of the Sassanian Empire. The texts that remain today are the Gathas, Yasna, Visperad and the Vendidad. Along with these texts is the communal household prayer book called the Khordeh Avesta, which contains the Yashts and the Siroza. The rest of the materials from the Avesta are called \"Avestan fragments\".\n\nMiddle Persian and Pahlavi works created in the 9th and 10th century contain many religious Zoroastrian books, as most of the writers and copyists were part of the Zoroastrian clergy. The most significant and important books of this era include the Denkard, Bundahishn, Menog-i Khrad, Selections of Zadspram, Jamasp Namag, Epistles of Manucher, Rivayats, Dadestan-i-Denig, and Arda Viraf Namag. All Middle Persian texts written on Zoroastrianism during this time period are considered secondary works on the religion, and not scripture. Nonetheless, these texts have a strong influence on the religion.\n\nZoroastrianism was founded by Zoroaster (or Zarathustra), later deemed a prophet, in ancient Iran. The precise date of the founding of Zoroastrianism is uncertain.\nZoroaster was born in either Northeast Iran or Southwest Afghanistan. He was born into a culture with a polytheistic religion, which included animal sacrifice and the ritual use of intoxicants, quite similar to early forms of Hinduism in India. Zoroaster's birth and early life are little documented. What is known is recorded in the Gathas—the core of the Avesta, which contains hymns thought to be composed by Zoroaster himself. Born into the Spitama clan, he worked as a priest. He had a wife, three sons, and three daughters.\n\nZoroaster rejected the religion of the Bronze Age Iranians, with their many gods and oppressive class structure, in which the Karvis and Karapans (princes and priests) controlled the ordinary people. He also opposed animal sacrifices and the use of the hallucinogenic Haoma plant (possibly a species of ephedra) in rituals, but held the rooster as a \"symbol of light\" and associated it with \"good against evil\" because of his heraldic actions.\n\nAccording to Zoroastrian belief, when Zoroaster was 30 years old, he went into the Daiti river to draw water for a Haoma ceremony; when he emerged, he received a vision of Vohu Manah. After this, Vohu Manah took him to the other six Amesha Spentas, where he received the completion of his vision. This vision radically transformed his view of the world, and he tried to teach this view to others. Zoroaster believed in one creator God, teaching that only one God was worthy of worship. Some of the deities of the old religion, the \"Daevas\" (\"Devas\" in Sanskrit), appeared to delight in war and strife. Zoroaster said these were evil spirits, workers of Angra Mainyu.\n\nZoroaster's ideas were not taken up quickly; he originally only had one convert: his cousin Maidhyoimanha. The local religious authorities opposed his ideas, considering that their faith, power, and particularly their rituals, were threatened by Zoroaster's teaching against over-ritualising religious ceremonies. Many did not like Zoroaster's downgrading of the Daevas to evil spirits. After 12 years of little success, Zoroaster left his home.\n\nIn the country of King Vishtaspa in Bactria, the king and queen heard Zoroaster debating with the religious leaders of the land and decided to accept Zoroaster's ideas as the official religion of their kingdom. Zoroaster died in his late 70s. Very little is known of the time between Zoroaster and the Achaemenian period, except that Zoroastrianism spread to Western Iran. By the time of the founding of the Achaemenid Empire, Zoroastrianism was already a well-established religion.\n\nHumata, Hukhta, Huvarshta (Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds) are the basic tenets of the religion.\nIn Zoroastrianism, Ahura Mazda is the beginning and the end, the creator of everything that can and cannot be seen, the Eternal, the Pure and the only Truth. In the Gathas, the most sacred texts of Zoroastrianism thought to have been composed by Zoroaster himself, the prophet acknowledged devotion to no other divinity besides Ahura Mazda.\n\n\"Daena\" (\"din\" in modern Persian) is the eternal Law, whose order was revealed to humanity through the \"Mathra-Spenta\" (\"Holy Words\"). \"Daena\" has been used to mean religion, faith, law, and even as a translation for the Hindu and Buddhist term Dharma, to which it is related. The latter is often interpreted as \"duty\" but can also mean social order, right conduct, or virtue. The metaphor of the \"path\" of \"Daena\" is represented in Zoroastrianism by the muslin undershirt \"Sudra\", the \"Good/Holy Path\", and the 72-thread \"Kushti\" girdle, the \"Pathfinder\".\n\n\"Daena\" should not be confused with the fundamental principle \"asha\" (Vedic \"rta\"), the equitable law of the universe, which governed the life of the ancient Indo-Iranians. For these, \"asha\" was the course of everything observable—the motion of the planets and astral bodies; the progression of the seasons; and the pattern of daily nomadic herdsman life, governed by regular metronomic events such as sunrise and sunset.\n\nAll physical creation (\"geti\") was thus determined to run according to a master plan—inherent to Ahura Mazda—and violations of the order (\"druj\") were violations against creation, and thus violations against Ahura Mazda. This concept of \"asha\" versus the \"druj\" should not be confused with the good-versus-evil battle evident in western religions, for although both forms of opposition express moral conflict, the \"asha\" versus \"druj\" concept is more systemic and less personal, representing, for instance, chaos (that opposes order); or \"uncreation\", evident as natural decay (that opposes creation); or more simply \"the lie\" (that opposes truth and righteousness). Moreover, in his role as the one uncreated creator of all, Ahura Mazda is not the creator of \"druj\", which is \"nothing\", anti-creation, and thus (likewise) uncreated. Thus, in Zoroaster's revelation, Ahura Mazda was perceived to be the creator of only the good (Yasna 31.4), the \"supreme benevolent providence\" (Yasna 43.11), that will ultimately triumph (Yasna 48.1).\nIn this schema of \"asha\" versus \"druj\", mortal beings (both humans and animals) play a critical role, for they too are created. Here, in their lives, they are active participants in the conflict, and it is their \"duty\" to defend order, which would decay without counter\"action\". Throughout the Gathas, Zoroaster emphasizes deeds and actions, and accordingly asceticism is frowned upon in Zoroastrianism. In later Zoroastrianism, this was explained as fleeing from the experiences of life, which was the very purpose that the \"urvan\" (most commonly translated as the \"soul\") was sent into the mortal world to collect. The avoidance of any aspect of life, which includes the avoidance of the pleasures of life, is a shirking of the responsibility and duty to oneself, one's \"urvan\", and one's family and social obligations.\n\nCentral to Zoroastrianism is the emphasis on moral choice, to choose the responsibility and duty for which one is in the mortal world, or to give up this duty and so facilitate the work of \"druj\". Similarly, predestination is rejected in Zoroastrian teaching. Humans bear responsibility for all situations they are in, and in the way they act toward one another. Reward, punishment, happiness, and grief all depend on how individuals live their lives.\n\nIn Zoroastrianism, good transpires for those who do righteous deeds. Those who do evil have themselves to blame for their ruin. Zoroastrian morality is then to be summed up in the simple phrase, \"good thoughts, good words, good deeds\" (\"Humata\", \"Hukhta\", \"Hvarshta\" in Avestan), for it is through these that \"asha\" is maintained and \"druj\" is kept in check.\n\nThrough accumulation, several other beliefs were introduced to the religion that, in some instances, supersede those expressed in the Gathas. In the late 19th century, the moral and immoral forces came to be represented by \"Spenta Mainyu\" and its antithesis \"Angra Mainyu\", the \"good spirit\" and \"evil spirit\" emanations of Ahura Mazda, respectively. Although the names are old, this opposition is a modern Western-influenced development popularized by Martin Haug in the 1880s, and was, in effect, a realignment of the precepts of Zurvanism (Zurvanite Zoroastrianism), which had postulated a \"third\" deity, \"Zurvan\", to explain a mention of twinship (\"Yasna\" 30.3) between the moral and immoral. Although Zurvanism had died out by the 10th century, the critical question of the \"twin brothers\" mentioned in \"Yasna\" 30.3 remained, and Haug's explanation provided a convenient defence against Christian missionaries, who disparaged the Parsis for their \"dualism\". Haug's concept was subsequently disseminated as a Parsi interpretation, thus corroborating Haug's theory, and the idea became so popular that it is now almost universally accepted as doctrine.\n\nZoroastrianism developed the abstract concepts of heaven and hell, as well as personal and final judgment, all of which are only alluded to in the Gathas. \"Yasna\" 19, which has only survived in a Sassanid era (<nowiki>[</nowiki>–650 CE<nowiki>]</nowiki> \"Zend\" commentary on the \"Ahuna Vairya\" invocation), prescribes a Path to Judgment known as the \"Chinvat Peretum\" or \"Chinvat bridge\" (\"cf:\" As-Sirāt in Islam), which all souls had to cross, and judgment (over thoughts, words, and deeds performed during a lifetime) was passed as they were doing so. However, the Zoroastrian personal judgment is not final. At the end of time, when evil is finally defeated, all souls will be ultimately reunited with their Fravashi. Thus, Zoroastrianism can be said to be a universalist religion with respect to salvation.\n\nIn addition, and strongly influenced by Akkadian and Babylonian practices, the Achaemenids popularized shrines and temples, hitherto alien forms of worship. In the wake of Achaemenid expansion, shrines were constructed throughout the empire and particularly influenced the role of Mithra, Aredvi Sura Anahita, Verethragna and Tishtrya, all of which, in addition to their original (proto-)Indo-Iranian functions, now also received Perso-Babylonian functions.\n\nAccording to the Zoroastrian creation myth, Ahura Mazda existed in light and goodness above, while Angra Mainyu existed in darkness and ignorance below. They have existed independently of each other for all time, and manifest contrary substances. Ahura Mazda first created seven abstract heavenly beings called \"Amesha Spentas\", who support him and represent beneficent aspects, along with numerous \"yazads\", lesser beings worthy of worship. He then created the universe itself in order to ensnare evil. Ahura Mazda created the floating, egg-shaped universe in two parts: first the spiritual (\"menog\") and 3,000 years later, the physical (\"getig\"). Ahura Mazda then created Gayomard, the archetypical perfect man, and the first bull.\n\nWhile Ahura Mazda created the universe and humankind, Angra Mainyu, whose instinct is to destroy, miscreated demons, evil \"yazads\", and noxious creatures (\"khrafstar\") such as snakes, ants, and flies. Angra Mainyu created an opposite, evil being for each good being, except for humans, which he found he could not match. Angra Mainyu invaded the universe through the base of the sky, inflicting Gayomard and the bull with suffering and death. However, the evil forces were trapped in the universe and could not retreat. The dying primordial man and bull emitted seeds. From the bull's seed grew all beneficial plants and animals of the world, and from the man's seed grew a plant whose leaves became the first human couple. Humans thus struggle in a two-fold universe trapped with evil. The evils of this physical world are not products of an inherent weakness, but are the fault of Angra Mainyu's assault on creation. This assault turned the perfectly flat, peaceful, and ever day-lit world into a mountainous, violent place that is half night.\n\nZoroastrianism also includes beliefs about the renovation of the world and individual judgment (cf. general and particular judgment), including the resurrection of the dead.\n\nIndividual judgment at death is by the Bridge of Judgment, which each human must cross, facing a spiritual judgment. Humans' actions under their free will determine the outcome. One is either greeted at the bridge by a beautiful, sweet-smelling maiden or by an ugly, foul-smelling old woman. The maiden leads the dead safely across the bridge to the Amesha Spenta Good Mind, who carries the dead to paradise. The old woman leads the dead down a bridge that narrows until the departed falls off into the abyss of hell.\n\nZoroastrian hell is reformative; punishments fit the crimes, and souls do not rest in eternal damnation. Hell contains foul smells and evil food, and souls are packed tightly together although they believe they are in total isolation.\n\nIn Zoroastrian eschatology, a 3,000-year struggle between good and evil will be fought, punctuated by evil's final assault. During the final assault, the sun and moon will darken and humankind will lose its reverence for religion, family, and elders. The world will fall into winter, and Angra Mainyu's most fearsome miscreant, Azi Dahaka, will break free and terrorize the world.\n\nThe final savior of the world, Saoshyant, will be born to a virgin impregnated by the seed of Zoroaster while bathing in a lake. Saoshyant will raise the dead – including those in both heaven and hell – for final judgment, returning the wicked to hell to be purged of bodily sin. Next, all will wade through a river of molten metal in which the righteous will not burn. Heavenly forces will ultimately triumph over evil, rendering it forever impotent. Saoshyant and Ahura Mazda will offer a bull as a final sacrifice for all time, and all humans will become immortal. Mountains will again flatten and valleys will rise; heaven will descend to the moon, and the earth will rise to meet them both.\n\nHumanity requires two judgments because there are as many aspects to our being: spiritual (\"menog\") and physical (\"getig\").\n\nThe Zarathushtri also practice traditional head covering ritual similar to that of Judaism. It is vital to the practice, and according to Hoshang Bhadha,\nZoroastrian communities comprise two main groups of people: those of South Asian Zoroastrian background known as Parsis (or Parsees), and those of Central Asian background. According to a survey in 2004 by the Zoroastrian Associations of North America, the number of Zoroastrians worldwide was estimated at between 124,000 and 190,000. The number is imprecise because of wildly diverging counts in Iran. India's 2011 Census found 57,264 Parsi Zoroastrians.\n\nSmall Zoroastrian communities may be found all over the world, with a continuing concentration in Western India, Central Iran, and Southern Pakistan. Zoroastrians of the diaspora are primarily located in Great Britain and the former British colonies, particularly Canada and Australia, as well as in the American state of California where they form part of the Iranian American community.\n\nIndia is considered to be home to the largest Zoroastrian population in the world. When the Islamic armies, under the first Caliphs, invaded Persia, those locals who were unwilling to convert to Islam sought refuge, first in the mountains of Northern Iran, then the regions of Yazd and its surrounding villages. Later, in the ninth century CE, a group sought refuge in the western coastal region of India, and also scattered to other regions of the world.\nFollowing the fall of the Sassanid Empire in 651 CE, many Zoroastrians migrated. Among them were several groups who ventured to Gujarat on the western shores of the Indian subcontinent, where they finally settled. The descendants of those refugees are today known as the Parsis. The year of arrival on the subcontinent cannot be precisely established, and Parsi legend and tradition assigns various dates to the event.\n\nIn the Indian census of 2001, the Parsis numbered 69,601, representing about 0.006% of the total population of India, with a concentration in and around the city of Mumbai. Due to a low birth rate and high rate of emigration, demographic trends project that by 2020 the Parsis will number only about 23,000 or 0.002% of the total population of India. The Parsis would then cease to be called a community and will be labeled a \"tribe\". By 2008, the birth-to-death ratio was 1:5; 200 births per year to 1,000 deaths.\nIn Pakistan, they number fewer than 1,700, mostly living in Karachi.\n\nIran's figures of Zoroastrians have ranged widely; the last census (1974) before the revolution of 1979 revealed 21,400 Zoroastrians.\nSome 10,000 adherents remain in the Central Asian regions that were once considered the traditional stronghold of Zoroastrianism, i.e., Bactria (see also Balkh), which is in Northern Afghanistan; Sogdiana; Margiana; and other areas close to Zoroaster's homeland.\nIn Iran, emigration, out-marriage and low birth rates are likewise leading to a decline in the Zoroastrian population. Zoroastrian groups in Iran say their number is approximately 60,000. According to the Iranian census data from 2011 the number of Zoroastrians in Iran was 25,271.\n\nCommunities exist in Tehran, as well as in Yazd, Kerman and Kermanshah, where many still speak an Iranian language distinct from the usual Persian. They call their language Dari (not to be confused with the Dari of Afghanistan). Their language is also called \"Gavri\" or \"Behdini\", literally \"of the Good Religion\". Sometimes their language is named for the cities in which it is spoken, such as \"Yazdi\" or \"Kermani\". Iranian Zoroastrians were historically called \"Gabr\"s, originally without a pejorative connotation but in the present-day derogatorily applied to all non-Muslims.\n\nMore recently the Zoroastrian faith has gained strength among the Kurds in Iraq and claims to have 100,000 followers. Zoroastrians currently seek official status for their religion in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nNorth America is thought to be home to 18,000–25,000 Zoroastrians of both South Asian and Iranian background. A further 3,500 live in Australia (mainly in Sydney).\nAs of 2012, the population of Zoroastrians in USA was 15,000, making it the third largest Zoroastrian population in the World after those of India and Iran.\n\n"}
