{"id": "18845884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18845884", "title": "Abutaleb", "text": "Abutaleb\n\nAbutaleb is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "9974811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9974811", "title": "Alexander Zaïd", "text": "Alexander Zaïd\n\nAlexander Zaïd (1886 − 10 July 1938) was one of the founders of the Jewish defense organizations Bar Giora and Hashomer, and a prominent figure of the Second Aliyah.\n\nZaïd was born in 1886 in Zima, a town in Irkutsk Oblast, Siberia. His father had been deported from Vilna to Siberia due to revolutionary activity and his mother was a Subbotnik. In 1889, the family moved to Irkutsk. In 1901 they returned to Vilna, where his father remarried. Two years later, the father died, too. The orphaned teenager met Michael Helpern, a First Aliyah pioneer sent to Vilna to promote immigration to Palestine. Zaid moved to Palestine in 1904, under the auspices of the Zionist Labour Movement. He worked at the winery in Rishon Letzion, where he met Israel Shochat, as a construction worker in Ben Shemen and a stonemason in Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1907, he helped establish the first Jewish watchmen's organization, the clandestine \"Bar-Giora\". Two years later, in 1909, he was one of the founders of Hashomer, a Jewish defense organization, to safeguard the Jewish agricultural settlements in Palestine.\n\nZaid and his wife Tzippora were founders of Kibbutz Kfar Giladi in the Galilee, which became a center of Hashomer's underground activity. In 1926, following the establishment of the Haganah, David Ben-Gurion demanded that Hashomer become subordinate to the new organization and transfer its weapons to it. Zaid and his wife supported this move, but most members of Kfar Giladi were opposed to it. As a result, the Zaids were forced to leave the kibbutz with their four young children. Zaid moved to Sheikh Abreik in the Valley of Jezreel, where he worked as a watchman, overseeing the lands of the JNF. The residents of the Arab village at the site had been evicted a few years earlier when the Sursuk family of Beirut sold the land. The locality was known to have archaeological importance but had never been excavated. In 1936, Zaid reported that he had found a breach in the wall of one of the known caves which led to another cave decorated with inscriptions. This led to the excavation of the site and its identification as Beit She'arim.\n\nZaïd survived two attacks by Arabs, but on the night of 10 July 1938, he was killed. He was ambushed by an Arab gang while on his way to meet members of kibbutz Alonim. The killer was Qassem Tabash, a Bedouin from the al-Hilaf tribe. In 1942, the Palmach killed Tabash in retaliation. Zaïd was survived by his wife and four children.\n\nOn a hilltop overlooking the Jezreel Valley is a bronze statue of Alexander Zaïd on horseback sculpted by David Polus. Givat Zaid and Beit Zaid were named after him. The poet Alexander Penn dedicated his poem, \"Adamah, Admati\" (\"Land, My Land\") to Alexander Zaïd.\n\nRare video of Alexander Zaid's Family in the 1930's\n"}
{"id": "10993235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10993235", "title": "Andre Mack", "text": "Andre Mack\n\nAndré Hueston Mack (born December 25, 1972) is an American sommelier, winemaker, and author. He is the first African American to win the title of Best Young Sommelier in America (2003), and was the runner-up for the title of Best Sommelier in North America in 2004.\n\nDespite a successful career with Citicorp Investment Services, in the early 2000s Andre Mack decided to leave his \"desk job\" to pursue his passion for wine. Mack began to study wine in earnest while working at The Palm in San Antonio, Texas. During his time working as a sommelier there, Mack discovered the joys of introducing guests to the little-known vineyards that first attracted him to the business and \"the instant gratification of a guest's reaction.\" He left The Palm to work as head sommelier with the team that opened Bohanan's Prime Steaks and Seafood in San Antonio. In 2003, at the age of 30, he competed and won the title of Best Young Sommelier in America, awarded by the Chaine des Rotisseurs. He was the first African American sommelier to do so. Gaining exposure, Thomas Keller offered Mack a position on the opening team of his New York restaurant, Per Se. He accepted the offer and spent three years as head sommelier one of New York's few four-star restaurants, where he worked to manage a 2500-selection award-winning wine list and consulted regularly with Chef Keller on menu and pairing development. His wine lists have also received recognition by \"Wine Spectator\", and he has been featured in \"Food & Wine\", \"Wine & Spirits\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"Black Enterprise\". He was honored in 2007 with \"The Network Journal\"'s 40-Under-Forty Achievement Award. \n\nMack is an ardent wine educator who has been invited to host seminars and lead panel discussions at several food and wine gatherings including The Food & Wine Classic in Aspen, Colorado and the Newport Mansions Wine and Food Festival. He also curates wines for Club W, a wine club for a new generation of drinkers, to continue his mission of making wine more accessible.\nSince 2008, Mack has been married to author Phoebe Damrosch, whose \"New York Times\" notable book, \"Service Included: Four-Star Secrets of an Eavesdropping Waiter\", detailed their courtship and collaboration during the early years of Per Se. As of early 2013, Mack is in the process of writing his own book, a culinary activity and coloring book that\npulls together some of the most innovative chefs, ingredients, and technique.\n\nMack appeared as a guest judge along with two Michelin stars chef David Kinch on episode 4 (entitled \"Daring Pairings\") of Season 1 of the ABC reality show \"The Taste\", which aired on February 12, 2013.\n\nIn 2007 Mack founded Maison Noir Wines (formerly named Mouton Noir Wines until a dispute with Chateau Mouton Rothschild) after having forged relationships with growers and winemakers from Oregon over many years.\n\nBased on the success of the wine labels he created for Maison Noir Wines, in 2011 Mack established Get Fraiche Cru, a boutique graphic design firm, for which he serves as creative director. He has worked with clients such as Joel Gott, Palm Bay Imports, and Charles & Charles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32985146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32985146", "title": "Anne Wafula Strike", "text": "Anne Wafula Strike\n\nAnne Wafula Strike MBE (born 8 May 1969) is a Harlow-based British Paralympic wheelchair racer. Born in Mihuu, Kenya, she contracted polio at the age of two, resulting in a later Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital diagnosis of below T7 paralysis. Arriving in the UK in April 2000, she was introduced to wheelchair racing in 2002 and in 2004 became the first Kenyan wheelchair racer to represent her country, competing in the T53 400m finals at the Paralympics in Athens. Following a successful application for British citizenship in 2006, she became a member of Team GB and, after reclassification, now competes in the T54 racing category as a British athlete. A past winner of the BBC's 'My Story' competition, her autobiography \"In my Dreams I Dance\" was published by HarperCollins in 2010.\n\nShe was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2014 Birthday Honours for services to disability sport and charity. In January 2017, while on a CrossCountry train, she was unable to reach a toilet on time due to sitting in a wheelchair. She lost control of her bladder and urinated into her clothing. In the aftermath, she criticised CrossCountry for failing to provide a working disabled accessible toilet on the train.\n\nAnne has one child - named Timothy - with her husband Norman.\n\n"}
{"id": "340963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340963", "title": "Aslan Maskhadov", "text": "Aslan Maskhadov\n\nAslan (Khalid) Aliyevich Maskhadov (; ; 21 September 1951 – 8 March 2005) was a leader of the Chechen terrorism movement and the third President of the unrecognized Chechen Republic of Ichkeria.\n\nHe was credited by many with the Chechen victory in the First Chechen War, which allowed for the establishment of the de facto independent Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. Maskhadov was elected President of Chechnya in January 1997. Following the start of the Second Chechen War in August 1999, he returned to leading the guerrilla resistance against the Russian army. He was killed in Tolstoy-Yurt, a village in northern Chechnya, in March 2005.\n\nOn 21 September 1951, Aslan Aliyevich Maskhadov was born in Karaganda Region of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic (SSR) of the Soviet Union, in the small village of Shakai, during the mass deportation of the Chechen people ordered in 1944 by Joseph Stalin. His family was of the Alaroy teip. In 1957, his family returned to Chechnya where they settled in Zebir-Yurt, Nadterechny District.\n\nMaskhadov joined the Soviet Army, trained in the neighbouring Georgian SSR and graduated from the Tbilisi Artillery School in 1972. He then graduated with honours from the Leningrad Kalinin Higher Artillery in 1981. He was posted to Hungary with a self-propelled artillery regiment until 1986 and then from 1986 in the Baltic Military District. He served from 1990 as the chief of staff of Soviet missile and artillery forces in Vilnius, capital of the Lithuanian SSR. In January 1991, Maskhadov participated in the January Events, the seizure of the television tower by Soviet troops (which he regretted later), but didn't participate in the assault itself. During his service in the Soviet Army, he was presented with two Orders For Service to Homeland. Maskhadov retired from the Soviet Army in 1992 with the rank of a colonel and returned to his native land. He was at the head of ChRI civil defence from late 1992 to November 1993.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, in the summer of 1993, Maskhadov took part in raids on the armed opposition against the government of Dzhokhar Dudayev in the Urus-Martan, Nadterechny, and Gudermes districts. An unsuccessful anti-Dudayev mutiny in November 1993 resulted in the dismissal of Viskhan Shakhabov as chief of staff of the Chechen armed forces, Maskhadov was appointed as the acting chief of staff and, in March 1994, as the chief of staff.\n\nIn December 1994, when the First Chechen War broke out, he was the senior military figure on the Chechen side during the war and was widely seen as being instrumental to the Chechen victory over the Russian forces. As the First Deputy Chairman of the ChRI State Defence Council (ChRI President Dudayev was the chairman) and the chief of staff, Maskhadov organised defence of the Chechen capital during the Battle of Grozny. Maskhadov commanded the city from the Presidential Palace in Grozny, where on one occasion a Russian bunker buster bomb landed 20 meters from him but failed to explode. In February 1995, Dudayev promoted Aslan to Divisional General.\n\nBeginning in June 1995, Maskhadov took part in peace talks in Grozny to resolve the crisis in Chechnya. In June 1996, at the negotiations in Nazran, Ingushetia, Maskhadov, on behalf of the ChRI administration, signed the Protocol of the Commission's Meeting on Ceasefire and Measures to Resolve the Armed Conflict in the CRI. In August 1996, after Grozny's seizure by Chechen units he repeatedly held talks with Alexander Lebed and on 31 August 1996, the signing of the Khasav-Yurt Accord took place, a ceasefire agreement, and peace treaty which marked the end of the First Chechen War. \n\nOn 17 October 1996, Maskhadov was appointed Prime Minister of Ichkeria, while he also remained Chief of Staff and Defence Minister. Maskhadov nominated himself for President of Ichkeria on 3 December 1996, for the January 1997 free democratic presidential and parliamentary elections held in Chechnya under the aegis of the OSCE, running primarily against Shamil Basayev and Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev.\n\nThe elections were conducted on the basis of the Chechen constitution adopted in March 1992, according to which the Chechen Republic was an independent state. Representatives of more than 20 countries, as well as the United Nations and the OSCE, attended the elections as observers.\n\nRunning with Vakha Arsanov, who became his vice president, Mashkadov won a majority of 60% of the votes and was congratulated by the Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who pledged to work towards rebuilding relations with Chechnya. Maskhadov was inaugurated on 12 February 1997, and at the same time he assumed the office of prime minister and abolished the office of Defence Minister he had occupied since late 1996. Maskhadov remained commander-in-chief of the republican armed forces. On 12 May 1997, Maskhadov then attained the apex of his political career when he signed a peace treaty with Yeltsin at the Kremlin.\n\nBy the end of 1996, when Maskhadov assumed his office, nearly half a million people (40% of Chechya prewar population) had been internally displaced and lived in refugee camps or overcrowded villages. The economy was destroyed and the warlords had no intention to disband their militias. Under such circumstances, Maskhadov's political fortunes began to wane. His political standing within Chechnya became increasingly insecure as he lost control to Basayev and other warlords. Even his Vice-President Arsanov became his political enemy. Just like in the years before the First Chechen War under Dudayev, the years of Chechen independence were notorious for organized crime, including kidnapping, leading to several public executions of criminals.\n\nMaskhadov attempted with only limited success to curb the growth of Wahhabism and other fundamentalist Muslim groups supported by Basayev, producing a split in the Chechen separatist movement between Islamic fundamentalism and Chechen nationalists. In February 1999, as a concession to radical Islamists, Maskhadov introduced Islamic Sharia law. The Sharia courts that were established sentenced people to death, flogging, executing people for crimes such as adultery.\n\nMaskhadov survived assassination attempts on his life three times, on 23 July 1998, 21 March and 10 April 1999, in which the attackers used anti-tank missiles and bombs. Russian secret services were officially blamed.\n\nIn the summer of 1999, Maskhadov condemned an attempt by Basayev and Ibn Al-Khattab to spread war to the neighboring republic of Dagestan (known as the Invasion of Dagestan). This raid, and the Russian Apartment Bombings, were both blamed on the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. On 1 October 1999, the then Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin declared the authority of President Maskhadov and his parliament illegitimate. Putin sent Russian forces into Chechnya, and his promise of a quick and decisive victory propelled him to the Russian Presidency.\n\nOn 11 October 1999, Maskhadov outlined a peace plan offering a crackdown on renegade warlords, the offer was rejected by the Russian side. In response, President Maskhadov declared a \"gazavat\" (holy war) to confront the approaching Russian army. Soon, martial law was declared in Ichkeria and reservists were called, and the building of his Presidential Palace was one of the supposed targets of the disastrous Grozny ballistic missile attack on 23 October 1999.\n\nMaskhadov was one of the main commanders in the Battle of Grozny (1999–2000) along with Shamil Basayev, Ruslan Gelayev, Ibn Al-Khattab, Aslambek Ismailov and Khunkarpasha Israpilov. Maskhadov along with his men launched daring counter-attacks against the Russian troops while fighting in Grozny and also effectively used the sewer systems to attack Russian troops from behind. After a meeting with top rebel commanders, Maskhadov and others agreed to withdraw from Grozny and continue to attack Russian forces in the cities and towns surrounding the city. Maskhadov was the first to withdraw because of his importance to the rebel cause and because he was the official President of Chechnya. As Maskhadov and his men retreated, they set up a vast amount of booby traps and landmines to hinder Russian forces and make most of Grozny impassable.:\n\nAfter Chechen forces' withdrawal from Grozny following another battle for the city, Maskhadov returned to a life of a guerrilla leader, living in hiding as Russia's second most wanted man after Basayev, with Russia placing a $10 million bounty on his capture. He was seen as the official political leader of the separatist forces during the war, but it is unclear what kind of a military role he played. Maskhadov offered his readiness for unconditional peace talks with Moscow several times in 2000 alone, continuing in the following years, but his appeals for a political solution were always ignored by the Russian side.\n\nMaskhadov advocated armed resistance to what he saw as a Russian occupation of Chechnya but condemned attacks on civilians. He allegedly supported the assassination of pro-Russian Chechen President Akhmad Kadyrov in Chechnya, whilst condemning the Russian assassination of Chechen separatist ex-President Yandarbiyev in Qatar in 2004. Maskhadov often denied responsibility for the increasingly brutal terrorist acts against Russian civilians by Basayev's followers, continually issuing denunciations of such incidents through spokesmen abroad, such as Akhmed Zakayev in London. However, on 24 October 2002, radio communications were intercepted from Maskhadov's messages wherein he called for intensification of terrorist activities and sabotage in Russian territory. Evidence for Maskhadov's complicity in the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis was provided by its two principal perpetrators, Movsar Barayev and Abu Said. Although he initially denied responsibility for the 2004 Nazran raid, in which 98 police officers/troops were killed, in July 2004 Maskhadov publicly accepted responsibility for the attacks. In the same month, Maskahdov promised similar attacks would happen, and vowed that the winner of Chechnya's upcoming presidential election would be illegitimate and would be attacked if necessary. He described the rebels behind the Beslan school siege as \"madmen\" driven out of their senses by Russian acts of brutality and called the terrorist attack an atrocity.\n\nOn 15 January 2005, Maskhadov issued a special order to stop all military operations except those in self-defense, both inside and outside Chechnya, until the end of February (the date marking the anniversary of the Stalin's Vainakh deportations of 1944) as a gesture of good will, and again called for a negotiated end to the Chechen conflict. Umar Khambiev, his designated negotiator, said that the separatists were no longer seeking independence, but only \"guarantees for the existence of the Chechen nation\". This surprise, unilateral ceasefire was supported by Basayev but flatly rejected by the Russian and pro-Russian leaders who, once again, refused to negotiate. Maskhadov's order to temporarily cease all offensive actions was largely followed by the rebel movement, except in Dagestan.\n\nOn 8 March 2005, less than a month after Maskhadov announced the cease-fire, the head of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) Nikolay Patrushev announced that special forces attached to the FSB had \"today carried out an operation in the settlement of Tolstoy-Yurt, as a result of which the international jihadist and leader of armed groups Maskhadov was killed, and his closest comrades-in-arms detained\". He said the special operations unit had wanted to take Maskhadov alive for interrogation, but claim that they killed him accidentally with a grenade thrown into a bunker where Maskhadov was hiding. Akhmed Zakayev, one of his closest allies who acted as his spokesman and foreign minister, told a Russian radio station that it was probable that Maskhadov had indeed been killed; he indicated later that a new Chechen leader could be chosen within days. Vladimir Putin awarded those responsible for the killings with medals. Shortly after Maskhadov's death, the Chechen rebel council announced that Abdul-Halim Sadulayev had assumed the leadership.\n\nFour Chechens, Vakhit Murdashev, Viskhan Hadzhimuradov, Skanarbek Yusupov and Ilias Iriskhanov, were captured by the special operation. According to the ballistic evidence at their trial in the Supreme Court of the Chechen Republic, Maskhadov was killed by a shot from the pistol of Viskhan Hadzhimuradov, his nephew and bodyguard. Hadzhimuradov testified that he does not remember whether he shot Maskhadov or not since he was stunned by an explosion but after the capture Hadzhimuradov reportedly said: \"My uncle always told me to shoot him if he is wounded and his capture is imminent. He said that if he is taken prisoner, he would be mistreated like Saddam Hussein had been\".\n\nOn 24 April 2006, the General Procurator's Office of Russia officially refused to turn the remains of Aslan Maskhadov over to his relatives for burial. The refusal was described as legal: Maskhadov A. A., in connection with terrorism, was criminally responsible for many separate serious crimes on the territory of the Russian Federation. Taking this into account, it was decided to suppress Maskhadov's activities and Maskhadov was being pursued for our protection. The burial of such persons is carried out in accordance with the rules concerning the burial of those whose death was a result of the suppression of their terrorist actions, affirmed by the government of the Russian Federation on 20 March 2003, in Order No. 164. In this case, the body is not handed over for burial, and the location of the burial is not communicated.\n\nMaskhadov's family has been campaigning for the release of his remains or a disclosure of what happened to his body.\n\nHe married at the age of 17. His wife Kusama holds a graduate degree in teaching. They had two children: a son, Anzor, who took part in military action during the First Russian-Chechen War, and a daughter, Fatima.\n"}
{"id": "6960207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6960207", "title": "Barbadians", "text": "Barbadians\n\nBarbadians, or Bajans, are the people who are identified with the country of Barbados, be it the citizens of the country or their descendants in the Barbadian diaspora. This connection may be residential, legal, historical, or cultural. For most Barbadians, several (or all) of these connections exist and are collectively the source of their identity. Barbadians are a multi-ethnic and multicultural society of various different ethnic, religious and national origins.\n\nMany Barbarians now live overseas and outside of Barbados; the majority have migrated to Anglophone countries, including 37,780 Barbadians in Canada, some 19,000 in the United Kingdom, around 65,000 in the United States and some 500–1,000 Barbadians in Liberia. In addition to Anglophone countries other groups of Barbadians have moved to Latin countries including: Brazil, Cuba and Panama.\n\nSee: List of famous Barbarian people\n\n"}
{"id": "56666478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56666478", "title": "Barbara í Gongini", "text": "Barbara í Gongini\n\nBarbara í Gongini (born June 12, 1966) is a Faroese-Danish avant-garde fashion designer from Fuglafjørður, Faroe Islands.\n\nBarbara í Gongini is a Faroese avant-garde fashion designer who was born in Fuglafjørður and grew up in the old part of Tórshavn, the capital city of the Faroe Islands . \nAs a child, she always had an inclination for the arts and design, which led her to study painting, art and textile construction, graduating in 1990.\n\nGongini completed her design education at Denmark’s School of Design, at the Institute of Unica Design, in 1996.\n\nGrowing up with the values of the Faroe Islands, a small community that places focus on using the most of raw natural resources, influenced Gongini’s approach to fashion, inspiring her to create designs that are rich in multi-functional elements, so that they can be reused and transformed.\n\nGongini’s first clothing collection was made from fabric residue and launched in 2000, when she was still part of the Könrøg movement. Könrøg was an artist collective formed by 10 Danish artists between 2001-2006, in response to the Antwerp Six designer collective that existed in the ‘80s. \n\nIn the early 2000s, she was also part of the team behind the Könrøg clothing store in Copenhagen, which at the time was known as the capital’s most hip shop with Danish designer clothes and Alternative fashion, for those who dared to stand out. Gongini stopped working for Könrøg in 2004 in order to focus on her design career, while the store closed down two year later, in 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Gongini established her namesake label, with the brand name stylised as BARBARA I GONGINI. In the early days, the BARBARA I GONGINI collections were created for both men and women, focusing on androgyny and multifunctionality. The menswear line only became separate starting with the Autumn/Winter 2013 collection, which was presented at the Copenhagen Fashion Week. \nIn her fashion designs, she makes extensive use of draping and layering techniques, often creating asymmetrical garments that can be worn in multiple ways. Juxtaposition and deconstruction play a central part, with Gongini predominantly using black and non-colors ‘to allow fabrics and textures to speak as color instead’.\nShe combines a variety of natural and recycled textiles, sometimes mixing several types of materials, such as wool, leather, cotton and plastic, in a single garment. Gongini’s leather garments are often treated to give a dramatic texture that is reminiscent of the Faroese landscape. Her designs are available at the BARBARA I GONGINI headquarters showroom in Copenhagen and in specialized avant-garde clothing stores worldwide.\nGongini’s avant-garde design philosophy means that the collections are not trend-based, but focus on ‘nurturing a longevity formula’. She often compares her collections to new chapters to turn to in a story, describing them as ‘numerical’. As a proponent of the zero-waste wardrobe, she seeks to lengthen the life-cycle of garments through innovative designs called ‘multiways’.\n\nAlthough her fashion collections integrate sustainability principles and she has been said to be ‘ahead of her time when it comes to sustainability’, Gongini is known for making exceptions ‘if a few materials do not quite meet the standards’, in order not to compromise on design.\nNominated for the Danish Fashion Award Committee’s Ethical Award in 2010, she was also selected to represent Denmark at the Nordic Eco Fashion and Product Design Exhibition in Berlin.\n\nHer runway collections were first shown at the Paris Fashion Week in 2017. At this time, she also presented the film MODULE MODULAR, a video collaboration with director and photographer Mikkel Völcker.\n\nIn 2018, Barbara í Gongini was awarded the Faroese Cultural Prize, the highest distinction that a person of culture can receive in the Faroe Islands.\n\nDuring her career, Gongini has been an active participant in the Nordic art discourse, joining interdisciplinary collaborations showcased around the world. Notable examples include “The Weather Diaries”, an exhibition which was part of the third Nordic Fashion Biennale, shown at the Museum Angewandte Kunst in Frankfurt and the Nordic Heritage Museum in Seattle, Washington, and “Outer Dark”, a collaboration that saw her work exhibited next to household avant-garde fashion names such as Yohji Yamamoto, Martin Margiela and Alexander McQueen.\n\nBarbara I Gongini’s designs have been spotted on celebrities such as Florence Welch of Florence and the Machine, in her 2012 music video for Never Let Me Go, as well as on Lenny Kravitz, Rihanna and Chelsea Wolfe\n\n"}
{"id": "2982482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2982482", "title": "Carl and Clarence Aguirre", "text": "Carl and Clarence Aguirre\n\nClarence and Carl Aguirre (born April 21, 2002) are former conjoined twins born in Silay, Philippines. They were conjoined at the top of the head (vertical craniopagus). In 2003 they were brought to the United States by their mother Arlene in the hope of having them surgically separated. A revolutionary new process was used in separating the twin boys. Because \"marathon\" surgical operations have historically led to a high rate of mortality and morbidity, Clarence and Carl's doctors chose to separate them in several smaller operations, allowing the twins to recuperate after each surgery.\n\nIn October 2003, tissue expanders (pouches filled with saline) were implanted under the boys' scalps. This is common practice in separating conjoined twins, as it creates more skin that can be used to cover the twins' wounds after separation. Over the next ten months, the brothers underwent several more operations to tease apart their joined skulls and brains. On August 4, 2004, the final surgery was completed. All of these operations were performed at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, New York by a team led by Dr. James T. Goodrich, a pediatric neurosurgeon and Dr. David A. Staffenberg, a plastic surgeon. They received most of their post-operative rehabilitation at Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, New York (Westchester County).\n\nBy December 2005, Clarence could walk short distances unassisted, and Carl could walk with a walker. As of August 2014 both boys and their mother live in a donated house in Scarsdale, New York. The twins continue to attend physical therapy at Blythedale. Goodrich says there was some degeneration of Carl’s right parietal lobe: he takes medication to control seizures, can utter just a word or two at a time, and has limited use of his left arm and leg. Both must still wear helmets to protect their brains; when they are fully grown, their skulls will be patched.\n\n"}
{"id": "7574258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7574258", "title": "Casa Natal del General Santander", "text": "Casa Natal del General Santander\n\nThe Casa Natal del General Santander (lit., \"Birth house of General Santander\") is the birthplace of the Colombian General Francisco de Paula Santander, and is where he lived until the age of 13.\n\nIt is in the municipality of Villa del Rosario in Cúcuta, along the International Highway to Venezuela.\n\nThe building now holds a museum that contains many of Santander's possessions, including his uniform and swords. The house is in the Park of the Great Colombia, which also contains the historic church of Cúcuta (where the Colombian Constitution of 1821 was written and signed), and the House of the Bagatela, the seat of Colombia's government in its early years.\n"}
{"id": "45092623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45092623", "title": "Chrisann Brennan", "text": "Chrisann Brennan\n\nChrisann Brennan (born September 29, 1954) is an American painter and writer who wrote the autobiography \"The Bite in the Apple\" about her relationship with Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. They had one child, Lisa Brennan-Jobs.\n\nBrennan was born in Dayton, Ohio, in 1954, one of four daughters of James Richard Brennan and Virginia Lavern Rickey. Chrisann was named after the flower chrysanthemum. Brennan notes in her memoir that she is \"dyslexic, which has had the effect of making me differently wired, creative, and a voracious problem solver— bright, but more than slightly clueless to convention.\"\n\nHer father worked for Sylvania and the family lived in a number of places including Colorado Springs and Nebraska. They eventually settled in Sunnyvale, California. Her parents divorced after their move to Buffalo, New York. Brennan attended Homestead High School in Cupertino, California, where she met Steve Jobs during the early months of 1972.\n\nBrennan and Jobs's relationship began in 1972 while they were students in high school together. Brennan remained involved with Jobs while he was at Reed College. Brennan (who was now a senior at Homestead High School) did not have plans to attend college, and was supportive of Jobs when he told her he planned to drop out of Reed. He continued to attend by auditing classes, but Brennan stopped visiting him. Jobs later asked her to come and live with him in a house he rented near the Reed campus, but she refused. He had started seeing other women, and she was interested in someone she met in her art class. Brennan speculates that the house was Jobs' attempt to make their relationship monogamous again.\n\nIn mid-1973, Jobs moved back to the San Francisco Bay Area. Brennan states by this point that their \"relationship was complicated. I couldn't break the connection and I couldn't commit. Steve couldn't either.\" Jobs hitchhiked and worked around the West Coast and Brennan would occasionally join him. At the same time, Brennan notes, \"little by little, Steve and I separated. But we were never able to fully let go. We never talked about breaking up or going our separate ways and we didn't have that conversation where one person says it's over.\" They continued to grow apart, but Jobs would still seek her out, and visit her. They remained involved with each other while continuing to see other people.\n\nBy early 1974, Jobs was living what Brennan describes as a \"simple life\" in a Los Gatos cabin, working at Atari, and saving money for his impending trip to India. Brennan visited him twice at the cabin. Brennan's memories of this cabin consist of Jobs reading \"Be Here Now\" (and giving her a copy), listening to South Indian music, and using a Japanese meditation pillow. Brennan felt that he was more distant and negative towards her. Brennan states in her memoir that she met with Jobs right before he left for India and that he tried to give her $100 that he had earned at Atari. She initially refused to accept it but eventually accepted the money.\n\nAfter Brennan graduated from high school Jobs invited her to come and see him at the All One Farm, a commune in Oregon. While she did not spend much time with Jobs (who was recovering from an illness), Brennan was deeply influenced by the experience of meeting and working with the people that she met there.\n\nIn early 1975, Brennan became involved with a Zen Buddhist community in Los Altos, where she accidentally bumped into Jobs (whom she had not seen since the All One Farm). It was through this community that they would both meet and work with the Zen master Kobun. Jobs and Brennan began to spend more time together, although she noted that his behavior with her was more aloof than in the past. Brennan notes their lives were on different paths as she was deeply involved in her art program at Foothill College where she studied under Gordon Holler while Jobs was working with \"Kobun and Woz.\" She also fell in love with Greg Calhoun (Jobs' former Reed classmate) who had come to visit from the All One Farm. Brennan moved to the All One Farm and lived for a while with Calhoun in a renovated chicken coop. They eventually moved back to the Bay Area to earn money for a trek to India. Jobs helped them find a home to rent, though he was opposed to their traveling together to India. After Brennan and Calhoun had earned enough money to go, Jobs drove them to the airport and gave them advice about how to survive in India. Brennan traveled for a year through India with Calhoun, though their relationship ended by the time she returned to the United States.\n\nAfter her return from India, Brennan visited Jobs, whom she now considered just a friend, at his parents' home, where he was still living. It was during this period that Jobs and Brennan fell in love again, as Brennan noted changes in him that she attributes to Kōbun Chino Otogawa, whom she was also still following. It was also at this time that Jobs displayed a prototype Apple computer for Brennan and his parents in their living room. Brennan notes a shift in this time period, where the two main influences on Jobs were Apple and Kobun. By the early 1977, she and Jobs would spend time together at her home at Duveneck Ranch in Los Altos, which served as a hostel and environmental education center. Brennan also worked there as a teacher for inner city children who came to learn about the farm.\n\nAs Jobs and Apple became more successful, his relationship with Brennan grew more complex. In 1977 Brennan, Daniel Kottke, and Jobs moved into a house near the Apple office in Cupertino. Brennan notes that Jobs wanted the three of them to live together because, \"Steve told me that he didn't want to get a house with just the two of us because it felt insufficient to him. Steve wanted his buddy Daniel to live with him because he believed it would break up the intensity of what wasn't working between us. Our relationship was running hot and cold. We were completely crazy about each other and utterly bored in turns. I had suggested to Steve that we separate, but he told me that he just couldn't bring himself to say good-bye.\" In addition, Jobs initially suggested that all three of them each have separate rooms. They were still involved with each other, but even then Brennan states that in her memory of the time, \"I recalled how awful he was becoming and how I was starting to flounder.\" When she moved into the house, she had initially planned to commit to becoming an artist. However, she also needed to find work and eventually took a position at Apple in the Shipping Department (where she was part of a team that tested, assembled, and shipped Apple IIs with Mark Johnson and Bob Martinengo whom she enjoyed working with). She also took art classes at nearby De Anza College.\n\nBrennan's relationship with Jobs was deteriorating as his position with Apple grew and she began to consider ending the relationship. In October 1977, Brennan was approached by Apple employee #5, Rod Holt, who asked her to take \"a paid apprenticeship designing blueprints for the Apples.\" Both Holt and Jobs felt that it would be a good position for her, given her artistic abilities. Brennan's decision, however, was overshadowed by the fact that she realized she was pregnant and that Jobs was the father. It took her a few days to tell Jobs, whose face, according to Brennan \"turned ugly\" at the news. According to Brennan, at the beginning of her third trimester, Jobs said to her: \"I never wanted to ask that you get an abortion. I just didn't want to do that.\" He also refused to discuss the pregnancy with her. Brennan, herself, felt confused about what to do. She was estranged from her mother and afraid to discuss the matter with her father. She also did not feel comfortable with the idea of having an abortion. She chose instead to discuss the matter with Kobun, who encouraged her to have and keep the baby as he would lend his support. Meanwhile, Holt was waiting for her decision on the internship. Brennan states that Jobs continued to encourage her to take the internship, stating that she could \"be pregnant and work at Apple, you can take the job. I don't get what the problem is.\" Brennan however notes that she \"felt so ashamed: the thought of my growing belly in the professional environment at Apple, with the child being his, while he was unpredictable, in turn being punishing and sentimentally ridiculous. I could not have endured it.\" Brennan thus turned down the internship and decided to leave Apple. She states that Jobs told her \"If you give up this baby for adoption, you will be sorry\" and \"I am never going to help you.\"\n\nNow alone, Brennan was on welfare and cleaning houses to earn money. She would sometimes ask Jobs for money but he always refused. Brennan hid her pregnancy for as long as she could, living in a variety of homes, and continuing her work with Zen meditation. At the same time, according to Brennan, Jobs \"started to seed people with the notion that I slept around and he was infertile, which meant that this could not be his child.\" A few weeks before she was due, Brennan was invited to have her baby at the All One Farm in Oregon and Brennan accepted the offer.\n\nAt the age of 23, Brennan gave birth to her daughter, Lisa Brennan, on May 17, 1978. Jobs initially did not come for the birth. He eventually did so after he was contacted by Robert Friedland, their mutual friend and owner of the All One Farm. While distant, Jobs worked with her on a name for the baby. Brennan suggested the name \"Lisa\" and notes that Jobs was very attached to the name \"Lisa\" while he \"was also publicly denying paternity.\" She would discover later that Jobs was preparing to unveil a new kind of computer that he wanted to give a female name. She states that she never gave him permission to use the baby's name for a computer and he hid the plans from her. Jobs also worked with his team to come up with the phrase, \"Local Integrated Software Architecture\" as an alternative explanation for the Apple Lisa (decades later, however, Jobs admitted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that \"obviously, it was named for my daughter\").\n\nBrennan did explore adoption both before and after Lisa's birth but ultimately decided to become a single parent. Once, while staying with friends in the Bay Area, Jobs stopped by to see her. Brennan states that they went for a walk when Jobs said to her, \"I am really sorry. I'll be back, this thing with Apple will be over when I'm about thirty. I am really, really sorry.\" Around the same time, she met with Kobun who distanced himself from her and did not fulfill his promise to help her once the baby was born.\n\nBrennan would come under intense criticism from Jobs, who claimed that \"she doesn't want money, she just wants me.\" According to Brennan, Apple's Mike Scott wanted Jobs to give her money, while other Apple executives \"advised him to ignore me or fight if I tried to go after a paternity settlement.\" Brennan also notes that later, after Jobs was forced out of Apple, \"he apologized many times over for this behavior. He said that he never took responsibility when he should have and that he was sorry.\" By this time, Jobs had developed a strong relationship with Lisa, who wanted her name changed and Jobs agreed. So he had her name on her birth certificate changed from Lisa Brennan to Lisa Brennan-Jobs.\n\nWhen Lisa was a baby and Jobs continued to deny paternity, a DNA paternity test was given that established him as Lisa's father. He was required to give Brennan $385 a month and return the money she had received from welfare. Jobs gave her $500 a month at the time when Apple went public, and Jobs became a millionaire. Brennan worked as a waitress in Palo Alto. Later, Brennan agreed to give an interview with Michael Moritz for \"Time Magazine.\" It would be for its 1982 Time Person of the Year special (released on January 3, 1983). She decided to be honest about her relationship with Jobs. The \"Time\" magazine issue had a lifelong impact on Brennan. Rather than give Jobs the \"Person of the Year\" award, \"Time\" offered the award of \"Machine of the Year: The Computer Moves In.\" In the issue, Jobs questioned the reliability of the paternity test (which stated that the \"probability of paternity for Jobs, Steven... is 94.1%\"). Jobs responded by arguing that \"28% of the male population of the United States could be the father.\" \"Time\" also noted that \"the baby girl and the machine on which Apple has placed so much hope for the future share the same name: Lisa.\" After this issue, Brennan \"didn't pay much attention to Steve's career again.\"\"\n\nOver the years, however, Brennan and Jobs developed a working relationship to co-parent Lisa, particularly after he was forced out of Apple. Brennan credits the change in him to the influence of his newly found biological sister, Mona Simpson, who worked to repair the relationship between Lisa and Jobs.\n\nAccording to \"Fortune\", Brennan wrote a letter to Jobs in 2005, and another in 2009, in which she said she would abandon writing her memoirs if Jobs would supply her with financial compensation of $28 million USD for the suffering she went through as a single mother.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, Brennan decided to finish her formal education and began to study at the California College of Arts and Crafts (where she was able to transfer her units from Foothill College). She asked Jobs to pay her tuition. He agreed to this request and according to Brennan was quite happy to do so, as part of his developing relationship with Lisa. In 1989, she transferred to the San Francisco Art Institute.\n\nBrennan is currently a painter who lives in Monterey, California. She describes her art as \"light encoded paintings\" and works mostly on commission for either private or corporate parties. She has also created murals for the Ronald McDonald House, Los Angeles County Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, and Packard Children's Hospital. Brennan states that painting is \"a language for me. Letters are form, and paintings are documents for information. When I mix those two, I'm happy. It gets me out of the normal way, which is what I want to do.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33524011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33524011", "title": "Darcy Richardson", "text": "Darcy Richardson\n\nDarcy G. Richardson (born December 6, 1955) is an American author, historian and political activist.\n\nHe was the Reform Party of Florida's nominee for governor in 2018. In the 2012 presidential election, Richardson challenged incumbent Barack Obama for the Democratic nomination for president of the United States in five state primaries.\n\nRichardson is the author of \"A Nation Divided: The 1968 Presidential Campaign\", published in 2002. The book describes in detail the \"Clean for Gene\" phenomenon that led to President Lyndon B. Johnson's startling withdrawal from the race and Robert F. Kennedy's resulting candidacy, as well as the campaigns of Republican Richard M. Nixon and others. He has also authored four books of a planned seven volume series on the history of third party politics in the United States, with a heavy focus on progressive movements. The first volume, \"Others: Third-Party Politics From the Nation's Founding to the Rise and Fall of the Greenback-Labor Party\" earned a \"\" Outstanding Academic Title (OAT) award for 2005.\n\nRichardson has contributed articles to numerous publications and is the co-founder of a blog called Uncovered Politics, which focuses on insurgent candidates and third party politics.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1992, Richardson served as the National Chairman of The New Democrats, a Progressive reformist group that included Eugene McCarthy and Gary Hart.\n\nAlthough a registered Democrat and elected Montgomery County precinct committeeman at the time, Richardson was nominated to run for the position of Pennsylvania Auditor General in 1980 on the Philadelphia-based Consumer Party's ballot line. In that race he finished third with 48,783 votes.\n\nIn 1988, the Consumer Party again nominated Richardson, this time to run for U.S. Senate. That same year, Richardson was the national campaign manager of former Senator Eugene McCarthy's presidential campaign. McCarthy was also running on the Consumer Party ticket. Richardson was later a senior advisor to McCarthy's final presidential campaign, in which he ran as a candidate in the 1992 Democratic primaries.\n\nRichardson was a candidate for the lieutenant governor of Florida in 2010, running with independent gubernatorial candidate Farid Khavari.\n\nOn October 21, 2011, Richardson filed as a candidate in the 2012 New Hampshire Democratic primary and became the first Democrat to file in a primary against President Barack Obama. A total of 14 Democrats, including Obama, eventually filed for the primary ballot. Richardson stated in an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\" that he decided to enter the race after failing to convince former Labor Secretary Robert Reich to mount a bid. Richardson also noted his campaign was to be national in scope, with plans to file in numerous other states where ballot access laws would allow him to either pay a qualifying fee or gather signed petitions. In addition to New Hampshire, he qualified for a spot on the Missouri, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas Democratic primary ballots, and accumulated 41,730 votes at the end of the primary season.\n\nIn April 2012, Richardson suspended his presidential campaign, and announced plans to support Reform Party presidential candidate and former Louisiana governor Buddy Roemer in the general election. After Roemer ended his campaign, Richardson backed Roseanne Barr's presidential campaign and organized a Florida chapter of the Peace and Freedom Party.\n\nOn June 22, 2018, Richardson became the Reform Party of Florida's nominee for governor, later choosing Nancy Argenziano as his running mate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46865179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46865179", "title": "Edgar Budischowsky", "text": "Edgar Budischowsky\n\nEdgar Budischowsky is a West German firearm designer, whose designs were produced by Korriphilia in Germany, and Norton Armament in the United States.\n\nAmong his creations were the TP-70 double-action pocket pistol in .22 and .25 calibre, based on an amalgamation of Colt and Walther designs. It was later produced by Norton of Mount Clemens, Michigan, as the TP-22, or \"Budischowsky\" from 1973-1977; the Michigan models were of better quality than later models made in Floria and Utah.\n\nHis most prominent design was the delayed blowback HSP-701, which was produced in Heidelberg at high prices, made to measure, and very low volumes of around 30 pistols produced per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "51026291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51026291", "title": "Eduardo Sirotsky Melzer", "text": "Eduardo Sirotsky Melzer\n\nEduardo Sirotsky Melzer is chairman and president of Grupo RBS and owner of the business conglomerate RBS, one of the largest multimedia communications companies in Brazil. He is also chairman of e.Bricks Digital and shareholder of e.Bricks Ventures, a venture capital and private equity company with operations in Brazil and abroad.\n\nIn 1998, Melzer graduated with a degree in Business Administration from the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), and in 2002, completed an MBA from Harvard University.\n\nHe began his career in Brazil in the financial and franchising markets, reaching the master franchiser office at the multinational Sweet Sweet Way, and also participated in projects for consulting firm Booz Allen & Hamilton.\n\nIn the United States, he was a senior analyst at Delphi Corporation and CEO of Box Top Media, a media company located in New York.\n\nIn 2008, Melzer attended the Effective Strategies for Media Companies and the Building and Leading Customer Centric Organizations at Harvard Business School.\n\nMelzer was member of the Board of Ethics of the National Council for Advertising Self-Regulation (Conar), and the Executive Council of the Standard Norms (CENP), in 2009.\n\nEduardo Melzer joined Grupo RBS in 2004 as CEO for the domestic market, became vice-president of market and business development in 2008, and executive vice-president of Grupo RBS in 2010. Melzer is the grandson of the company founder, Mauricio Sirotsky Sobrinho.\n\nTwo years later, in 2012, Melzer became executive chairman of Grupo RBS, a position in which he succeeded his uncle Nelson Pacheco Sirotsky.\n\nEduardo Sirotsky Melzer assumed the role of CEO of Grupo RBS on July 3, 2012 in a ceremony held in Porto Alegre. \nHis office was announced in May 2012 as part of a planned succession process. In 2016, he also began acting as chairman of the board of directors.\n\nIn 2006, he received the Caboré Award in the Professional Vehicle category.\n\nHe was the 2009 Professional highlight of the Brazilian Advertising Association (ABP) in the Executive Vehicle category.\n\nTwo years later, he received the 2011 Coletiva.Net Award in the Marketing Management/Communication/Communication Group category.\n\nIn 2015, he received the Merit Award in Administration from the Regional Management Council of Rio Grande do Sul (CRA-RS).\n\nAlso in 2015, he was chosen to be part of the list of leaders at Cambridge Institute for Family Enterprise. This list brings together 25 individuals on an annual basis who are taking on leading roles in family enterprises and who are considered good examples for society.\n\n"}
{"id": "3908689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908689", "title": "Elvy Robichaud", "text": "Elvy Robichaud\n\nElvy Robichaud (born April 3, 1951 in Tracadie-Sheila, New Brunswick) is a former Canadian politician. He last served in 2006 as the member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick for Tracadie-Sheila.\n\nRobichaud was educated at the University of Moncton where he received Bachelor of Physical Education, Bachelor of Education and Master of Education degrees. He was a school principal and later a hospital administrator through the 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nWhile at the University of Moncton he was involved in student government and was elected to Tracadie municipal council in 1983 serving one three-year term. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick in a by-election in 1994. A Progressive Conservative, he was the first of his party to win a seat in the area since 1912. His party was struggling at the time and was a third party in the legislature.\n\nHe was re-elected in 1995 when his party regained the status of official opposition under the leadership former federal cabinet minister Bernard Valcourt. When Valcourt resigned as leader in 1997, Robichaud served as interim leader until the election of Bernard Lord and as leader of the opposition from Valcourt's resignation until Lord won a seat in a by-election in 1998.\n\nRobichaud was again elected in 1999 and his party was victorious across the province. He was sworn into the cabinet as Minister of Education and served as education minister until 2001 when he was shuffled into the health portfolio.\n\nRobichaud was again re-elected in 2003 and continued in the cabinet. On January 31, 2006 he announced he would not run again and would step down from the cabinet the next time it was shuffled. He left the cabinet following the shuffle on February 14, 2006.\n\nFor the 2006 New Brunswick election he served as Conservative campaign chairman.\n"}
{"id": "19004387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19004387", "title": "Ganymede (mythology)", "text": "Ganymede (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Ganymede or Ganymedes (; ; Greek: , \"Ganymēdēs\") is a divine hero whose homeland was Troy. He was the son of Tros of Dardania, from whose name \"Troy\" was supposedly derived, and of Callirrhoe, the daughter of the river god Scamander. Ganymede was the brother of Ilus, Assaracus and Cleopatra. Homer describes Ganymede as the most beautiful of mortals, and in one version of the myth Zeus falls in love with his beauty and abducts him in the form of an eagle to serve as cup-bearer in Olympus. \n\nThe myth was a model for the Greek social custom of \"paiderastía\", the socially acceptable romantic relationship between an adult male and an adolescent male. The Latin form of the name was Catamitus (and also \"Ganymedes\"), from which the English word \"catamite\" is derived.\n\nGanymede was abducted by Zeus from Mount Ida, near Troy in Phrygia. Ganymede had been tending sheep, a rustic or humble pursuit characteristic of a hero's boyhood before his privileged status is revealed. Zeus either summoned an eagle or turned into an eagle himself to transport the youth to Mount Olympus.\nIn the \"Iliad\", Zeus is said to have compensated Ganymede's father Tros by the gift of fine horses, \"the same that carry the immortals\", delivered by the messenger god Hermes. Tros was consoled that his son was now immortal and would be the cupbearer for the gods, a position of much distinction. Walter Burkert found a precedent for the Ganymede myth on an Akkadian seal that depicts the hero-king Etana riding heavenwards on an eagle.\n\nIn Olympus, Zeus granted him eternal youth and immortality and the office of cupbearer to the gods, who was relived of her duties as cupbearer upon her marriage to the Herakles. Edmund Veckenstedt associated Ganymede with the genesis of the intoxicating drink mead, which had a traditional origin in Phrygia. All the gods were filled with joy to see the youth, except for Hera, Zeus's consort, who regarded Ganymede as a rival for her husband's affection. Zeus later put Ganymede in the sky as the constellation Aquarius ( the \"water-carrier\" or \"cup-carrier\"), which is associated with that of the Eagle (Aquila). A moon of Jupiter, the planet named after Zeus's Roman counterpart, was named Ganymede by the German astronomer Simon Marius.\nPlato accounts for the pederastic aspect of the myth by attributing its origin to Crete, where the social custom of \"paiderastía\" was supposed to have originated (see \"Cretan pederasty\"). Athenaeus ecorded a version of the myth were Ganymede was abducted by the legendary King Minos to serve as his cupbearer instead of Zeus. Some authors have equated this version of the myth to Cretan pederasty practices, as recorded by Strabo and Ephoros, that involved abduction of a youth by an older lover for a period of two months before the youth was able to re-enter society as a man. Xenophon portrays Socrates as denying that Ganymede was the \"catamite\" of Zeus, and instead asserting that the god loved him for his \"psychē\", \"mind\" or \"soul,\" giving the etymology of his name as \"ganu-\", \"taking pleasure,\" and \"mēd-\", \"mind.\" Xenophon's Socrates points out that Zeus did not grant any of his lovers immortality, but that he did grant immortality to Ganymede.\n\nIn poetry, Ganymede became a symbol for the beautiful young male who attracted homosexual desire and love. He is not always portrayed as acquiescent: in the \"Argonautica\" of Apollonius of Rhodes, Ganymede is furious at the god Eros for having cheated him at the game of chance played with knucklebones, and Aphrodite scolds her son for \"cheating a beginner.\" The Augustan poet Virgil portrays the abduction with pathos: the boy's aged tutors try in vain to draw him back to Earth, and his hounds bay uselessly at the sky. The loyal hounds left calling after their abducted master is a frequent motif in visual depictions, and is referenced also by Statius:\nHere the Phrygian hunter is borne aloft on tawny wings, Gargara’s range sinks downwards as he rises, and Troy grows dim beneath him; sadly stand his comrades; vainly the hounds weary their throats with barking, pursue his shadow or bay at the clouds.\"\"\n\nOne of the earliest depictions of Ganymede is a red-figure krater by the Berlin Painter in the Musée du Louvre. Zeus pursues Ganymede on one side, while on the other side the youth runs away, rolling along a hoop while holding aloft a crowing cock. In fifth-century Athens, vase-painters often depicted the mythological story, which was so suited to the all-male symposium or formal banquet. The Ganymede myth was treated in recognizable contemporary terms, illustrated with common behavior of homoerotic courtship rituals, as on a vase by the \"Achilles Painter\" where Ganymede also flees with a cock. Ganymede is usually depicted as a well-developed, muscular young man.\nLeochares (about 350 BCE), a Greek sculptor of Athens who was engaged with Scopas on the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus cast a (lost) bronze group of Ganymede and the Eagle, a work that was held remarkable for its ingenious composition, which boldly ventured to the verge of what is allowed by the laws of sculpture, and also for its charming treatment of the youthful form as it soars into the air. It is apparently . Such Hellenistic gravity-defying feats were influential in the sculpture of the Baroque.\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\" (1599), a comedy of mistaken identity in the magical setting of the Forest of Arden, Celia, dressed as a shepherdess, becomes \"Aliena\" (Latin \"stranger\", Ganymede's sister) and Rosalind, because she is \"more than common tall\", dresses up as a boy, Ganymede, a well-known image to the audience. She plays on her ambiguous charm to seduce Orlando, but also (involuntarily) the shepherdess Phoebe. Thus behind the conventions of Elizabethan theater in its original setting, the young boy playing the girl Rosalind dresses up as a boy and is then courted by another boy playing Phoebe.\n\nWhen painter-architect Baldassare Peruzzi included a panel of \"The Rape of Ganymede\" in a ceiling at the Villa Farnesina, Rome, (\"ca\" 1509–1514), Ganymede's long blond hair and girlish pose make him identifiable at first glance, though he grasps the eagle's wing without resistance. In Antonio Allegri Correggio's \"Ganymede Abducted by the Eagle\" (Vienna) Ganymede's grasp is more intimate. Rubens' version portrays a young man. But when Rembrandt painted the \"Rape of Ganymede\" for a Dutch Calvinist patron in 1635, a dark eagle carries aloft a plump cherubic baby (Paintings Gallery, Dresden) who is bawling and urinating in fright. A 1685 statue of Ganymede and Zeus entitled \"Ganymède Médicis\" by Pierre Laviron stands in the gardens of Versailles.\n\nExamples of Ganymede in 18th century France have been studied by Michael Preston Worley. The image of Ganymede was invariably that of a naive adolescent accompanied by an eagle and the homoerotic aspects of the legend were rarely dealt with. In fact, the story was often \"heterosexualized.\" Moreover, the Neoplatonic interpretation of the myth, so common in the Italian Renaissance, in which the rape of Ganymede represented the ascent to spiritual perfection, seemed to be of no interest to Enlightenment philosophers and mythographers. Jean-Baptiste Marie Pierre, Charles-Joseph Natoire, Guillaume II Coustou, Pierre Julien, Jean-Baptiste Regnault and others contributed images of Ganymede to French art during this period.\n\n\nMy first thought, my first flash was that it was a beautiful woman... The angel was beautiful, with a face dominated by immense, lustrous green eyes and framed by golden ringlets, and with a bow mouth and full lips and brilliant white teeth.\nAnd only then, only after I had felt that first rush of improbable carnal lust, did it occur to me that this angel was a man.\n\n\nGanymede is named by various ancient Greek and Roman authors:\n\n"}
{"id": "576844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576844", "title": "George Spelvin", "text": "George Spelvin\n\nGeorge Spelvin, Georgette Spelvin, and Georgina Spelvin are traditional pseudonyms used in programs in American theater. The reasons for the use of an alternate name vary. Actors who do not want to be credited, or whose names would otherwise appear twice because they are playing more than one role in a production, may adopt a pseudonym. Actors who are members of the AFL-CIO trade union of professional actors known as Actors' Equity Association, but are working under a non-union contract and wish to avoid the significant penalties ranging from substantial fines to revocation of union membership that could result from working under non-union contracts, also use pseudonyms.\n\nIn some plays, this name has appeared in cast lists as the name of an actor (or actress) portraying a character who is mentioned in the dialogue but never turns up onstage: with the role credited to \"George Spelvin\", the audience is not forewarned that the character never makes an entrance. The name is said to have first appeared on a cast list in 1886 in \"Karl the Peddler\", a play by Charles A. Gardiner. The 1927 musical play \"Strike Up the Band\" by George S. Kaufman and George and Ira Gershwin features a character named George Spelvin. The name can also be used when one actor is playing what appear to be two characters, but is later revealed as being one person with two names or identities. Because of the pseudonym, the audience is not clued-in that the two seemingly separate characters are meant to be the same person. This is especially useful in murder mysteries.\n\n\"Georgina Spelvin\" has fallen out of general use since it was adopted as a screen name by pornographic actress Shelley Graham, who was credited by that name in \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" (1973) and her subsequent films.\n\nAnother example of the name being used occurred in Players de Noc's production of \"The Full Monty\", about a group of men who try their luck as male strippers. A member of the production's orchestra, not wanting members of his church to find he was involved with such a risqué play, had his name credited as George Spelvin.\n\nThe one-act play \"The Actor's Nightmare\" by Christopher Durang features a main character named George Spelvin, and the January 27, 1942, episode of \"Fibber McGee and Molly\" (\"The Blizzard\") features a visit by a stranger calling himself George Spelvin (played by Frank Nelson).\n\nThe columnist Westbrook Pegler used this name in his writings; one of his books of collected columns is titled \"George Spelvin, American\".\n\nThe name was used in the \"I Love Lucy\" episode \"Don Juan is Shelved\", in the \"Mama's Family\" episode \"Fangs A Lot, Mama\" as the author of a book called \"A Nun's Life\", and as the name of a character villain voiced by Peter Serafinowicz in the \"Tragical History\" episode of \"Archer\". \n\nThe name may also be used for a character who never delivers a line, and thus any member of the stage crew might be filling in the role. For example, a person makes a delivery to a character onstage: the doorbell rings, the delivery is made, and the delivery carrier disappears, with no words spoken.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "948842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948842", "title": "Greg Stafford", "text": "Greg Stafford\n\nFrancis Gregory Stafford (February 9, 1948 – October 11, 2018), usually known as Greg Stafford, was an American game designer, publisher, and practitioner of shamanism.\n\nStafford is most famous as the creator of the fantasy world of Glorantha, but he is also a prolific games designer. He was designer of \"Pendragon\", he was co-designer of the \"RuneQuest\", Ghostbusters, Prince Valiant and \"HeroQuest\" role-playing systems, founder of the role-playing game companies Chaosium and Issaries, designer of the \"White Bear and Red Moon\", \"Nomad Gods\", \"King Arthur’s Knights\" and \"Elric\" board games, and co-designer of the \"King of Dragon Pass\" computer game.\n\nGreg Stafford began wargaming after picking up a copy of \"U-Boat\" by Avalon Hill, and in 1966 as a freshman at Beloit College he started writing about the fantasy world of Glorantha. After rejection from a publisher, Stafford created \"White Bear and Red Moon\" set in Glorantha, and after three different companies were unable to publish the game he created Chaosium. He derived the name partly from his home, which was near the Oakland Coliseum, and combining \"coliseum\" with \"chaos.\"\n\n\"White Bear and Red Moon\" (1975) was Chaosium's first published game, and was also Stafford's first professional game. Stafford designed the board game \"Nomad Gods\". Stafford also designed the wargames \"\" (1977) and \"King Arthur's Knights\" (1978).\n\nStafford wanted the world of Glorantha to be part of an original role-playing game; this ultimately resulted in Steve Perrin's \"RuneQuest\" (1978), which was set in Glorantha.\n\nStafford and Lynn Willis simplified the \"RuneQuest\" rules into the 16-page \"Basic Role-Playing\" (1980). He designed the miniatures game \"Merlin\". Stafford considers his Arthurian chivalric role-playing game \"King Arthur Pendragon\" (1985) his masterpiece. He co-designed the \"Ghostbusters\" role-playing game (1986). \n\nStafford designed the \"\" roleplaying game (1989), which featured a strong storytelling basis and other innovations. Stafford decided to produce a fiction line for \"Call of Cthulhu\" after he realized that many Lovecraft fans of the early 1990s had never actually read Lovecraft's fiction but were only familiar with him through \"Call of Cthulhu\". Stafford co-designed the computer game \"King of Dragon Pass\" (1999).\n\nStafford left Chaosium in 1998, taking all of the rights for Glorantha, and founded the game company Issaries.\n\nStafford approached Robin Laws to create a new game based on Glorantha, which became known as \"Hero Wars\", published in 2000 as the first fully professional product for Issaries. Stafford published the second edition in 2003 under the name he always wanted \"HeroQuest\", as Milton Bradley's trademark on the name had lapsed. Stafford moved to Mexico in 2004, bringing production from Issaries to an end.\n\nWhen Hasbro let the \"RuneQuest\" trademark lapse, Stafford picked up the rights to the game and licensed Mongoose Publishing to publish a new edition in 2006. After White Wolf acquired the rights to \"\"Pendragon\"\", it was republished in 2005 by White Wolf. Their ArtHaus imprint published \"The Great Pendragon Campaign\" (2006), in which Stafford detailed the massive RPG campaign from the years 485 to 566. After Nocturnal Games picked up the rights to \"Pendragon\", Stafford created a 5.1 edition of \"Pendragon\" (2010).\n\nHe moved from Berkeley, California to Arcata, California in 2007, having lived in the San Francisco Bay Area for some years.\n\nIn June 2015, it was announced that Greg and Sandy Petersen had returned to Chaosium Inc., Stafford taking the positions of President and CEO.\n\nGreg Stafford's interest in roleplaying and gaming originated in his adolescent fascination with mythology. During his adolescent years he read anything he could find on the subject, and when he exhausted the libraries, he started to write his own stories in his freshman year at Beloit College, in 1966. This was the start of the world of Glorantha.\n\nStafford's 1974 board game \"White Bear and Red Moon\" had featured the violent struggle between several cultures in the Dragon Pass region of Glorantha. The heart of the game was a conflict between the barbarian Kingdom of Sartar and the invading Lunar Empire, a theme which has remained central to Gloranthan publications since then.\n\nAs Stafford was founding his company Chaosium, the game \"Dungeons & Dragons\" (and the concept of tabletop role-playing games) was gaining great popularity. Role-players were keen to use the \"White Bear and Red Moon\" setting in such games. So Chaosium published \"RuneQuest\", written by \"Steve Perrin, Ray Turney, and Friends\". Stafford left Chaosium in 1998.\n\nFor some years, Stafford slowly wrote several novels set in Glorantha. Novels that he is known to have been working on are \"Harmast's Saga\", \"Arkat's Saga\", and his \"Lunar novel\".\n\nHe was one of the designers on the Glorantha-based video game \"King of Dragon Pass\".\n\nStafford was a practicing shaman and member of the board of directors of \"Shaman's Drum\", a journal of experiential shamanism. He had some short articles of Arthurian interest published. Stafford lived in Mexico for 18 months, tutoring English as a foreign language, and exploring places of archeological and shamanic interest.\n\nFantasy author David A. Hargrave pays homage to Stafford in the Arduin series of supplements, the most widely known example of this being the Stafford's Star Bridge 9th-Level mage spell (Arduin I, page 41).\n\nStafford was inducted in the Origins Award hall of fame in 1987.\n\nIn 1999 \"Pyramid\" magazine named Greg Stafford one of The Millennium's Most Influential Persons, \"at least in the realm of adventure gaming.\"\n\nStafford won the Diana Jones Award in 2007, for \"The Great Pendragon Campaign\", published by White Wolf and in 2015 for \"Guide to Glorantha\", coauthored with Jeff Richard and Sandy Petersen and published by Moon Design Publications\n\nHe was honored as a \"famous game designer\" by being featured as the king of hearts in Flying Buffalo's 2011 Famous Game Designers Playing Card Deck.\n\n"}
{"id": "45486286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45486286", "title": "Gregory Burke (curator)", "text": "Gregory Burke (curator)\n\nGregory Burke is a museum director, writer and curator. In 2013, he was named executive director & CEO of the Mendel Art Gallery, Saskatoon, Canada and the Remai Modern Art Gallery of Saskatchewan.\n\nBurke was the director of The Power Plant, Toronto, Ontario from 2005 to 2011 and director of the Govett-Brewster Art Gallery, New Plymouth, New Zealand from 1998 to 2005.\n\nBurke has published over 100 texts and curated over 90 exhibitions since the late 1980s, including solo exhibitions for artists Michael Snow, Rosemarie Trockel, Thomas Hirschhorn, Lawrence Weiner, Ian Wallace, Christopher Williams, Goldin+Senneby, Pae White, Sam Durant, Simon Starling, Candice Breitz, Scott Lyall, Derek Sullivan and Len Lye. Burke has organized major exhibitions of Asian art, such as \"Mediarena: Contemporary Art from Japan\" (2004) and \"Transindonesia\" (2005). In 2009, he curated \"Universal Code: Art and Cosmology in the Information Age\" (2009), which won the Ontario Association of Art Galleries’s \"Exhibition of the Year\" award.\n\nBurke curated his native New Zealand’s inaugural pavilion at the Venice Biennale in 2001, and was the New Zealand Commissioner in 2005. He was a curator for the SITE Santa Fe International Biennial in 2008. In 2014, Burke co-curated (with Peggy Gale) La Biennale de Montréal BNLMTL 2014, \"Lʼavenir (looking forward),\" co-produced with Musée d'art contemporain de Montréal.\n\nBurke has written for Art + Text, ArtAsiaPacific, Artforum and Art & Australia. He is on the board of directors of Art Metropole, the editorial advisory committee for ARTAND Australia, and is a member of CIMAM (ICOM Committee of International Museums and Collections of Modern and Contemporary Art).\n\nBurke announced the Mendel Art Gallery would close on June 7, 2015 for the transition to the C$80 million Remai Modern Art Gallery of Saskatchewan, which opened in October 2017.\n"}
{"id": "48988031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48988031", "title": "History of human settlement in the Ural Mountains", "text": "History of human settlement in the Ural Mountains\n\nThe Ural Mountains extend from the Arctic Ocean in the north to the Ural River and northwestern Kazakhstan in the south over a distance of , the boundary between Europe and Asia. Human occupation begins in the Paleolithic and continues to this day.\n\nEarliest presence is documented for the \"Homo neanderthalensis\". Although no Neanderthal fossils were ever discovered, stone tools found at \"Byzovaya\", that date to 33,000 years ago are attributed to the Mousterian culture.\n\nIndigenous people, that migrated in the prehistoric era belong to the Ural-Altaic language families, such as Finno-Ugric, Komi, Udmurts, Khants, Mansi; Samoyeds - Nenets; Tyurks - Bashkirs and Volga Tatars. The name \"Uralic\" derives from the fact that areas where these languages are spoken spread on both sides of the Ural Mountains. Also, the original homeland (Urheimat) is commonly hypothesized to lie in the vicinity of the Urals. Proto-Uralic is the reconstructed language ancestral to the Uralic language family. The language was originally spoken in a small area about 7,000 to 2,000 years BCE (estimates vary), and expanded to differentiated proto-languages. The exact location of the area or Urheimat is not known and various strongly differing proposals have been advocated, but the vicinity of the Ural Mountains is usually assumed.\n\nIndo-European settlers of the Southern Ural region arrive during the Bronze Age and the middle of the first millennium BCE. Colonization by the Russian Empire including Ukrainians, Germans and other peoples begins during the 16th century.\n\nEarliest finds are Mousterian stone tools from 33,000 years ago. Upper Paleolithic rock paintings and drawings of the Kapova Cave, Burzyansky District of Bashkortostan in the southern Ural mountains are 16,000 years old. Artwork comparison suggests a commonality of cultural processes from the Atlantic to the Ural in the Paleolithic era. Identified are more than 50 drawings by S. Lyahnitskogo of the Russian Geological Institute and the Russian Geographical Society. Drawings are executed with ochre - natural pigments on the basis of animal fat, that depict mammoths, horses and other animals, complex characters and anthropomorphic figures.\n\nIndo-European Bronze Age cultures have converged on the southern Ural region:\n\nTrade of the prestigious bronze artifacts from Lake Baikal to the Mycenaean world in the West via Ural waterways correlated with the development of the Southern Ural proto-urban civilization from Arkaim via Sintashta to Andronovo culture.\n\nEstonian, Finno-Ugric tribes, Samoyedic peoples and other Uralic peoples had by the second millennium BCE accomplished settlement consolidation of the Middle Ural and Northern Ural according to the Proto-Uralic homeland hypotheses.\n\nBy the II millennium BCE Ural has become a source for resources in North Asia. In the Southern Ural the Andronovo culture and Srubna culture were succeeded by the Scythians and Sarmatians.\n\nA study on DNA variation among ancient Europeans found that, of the 6 samples extracted from Srubna culture sites for whom a Y-DNA hapogroup could be tested, all belonged to haplogroup R1a, and four of them to subclade R1a-Z93, which is common among modern-day Indo-Iranians.\n\nAuthors of classical antiquity developed the concept of the Riphean Mountains - an area of which the location is uncertain. the Riphean Mountains referred to the Ural Mountains.\n\nThe Ural was considered the boundary between two worlds: the civilized Europe and distant, mysterious Asia. Where the world's civilizations converge. Fate of nations indelible marked on the precipice of history and culture of Eurasia.\n\nBy the early common Era great Migrations of nomads from the east - Huns, Avars, Slavs, and Bulgars. via the Ural steppes ascended into Eastern Europe and Central Europe significantly influencing the indigenous peoples of the southern Ural region - the Bashkirs and Bulgars.\n\nThe complex archaeological cultures appeared in the Urals during the Middle Ages, characterized by ethnic descendants as the Sarmatians and Huns. At the same time the ancestors of the Hungarians - ancient Magyars, (Kushnarenkovo and Karayakupovo archaeological cultures), and ancestors of the Bashkirs - ancient Badzhgards (Turbasli archaeological culture) formed in the Southern Ural. The Southern Ural was the legendary birthplace of Great Hungary (Magna Hungaria) and the country of the Bashkirs - the Badzhgard (Bashkurd).\nThe migrations of Avars-Warhonits, Turks of Ashina, the Pechenegs, the Guzs, the Hungarians-Magyars, and Kipchaks nomads from the Southern Ural region or passing through the Southern Ural towards the west and Central Europe began during the early Medieval period.\nThe Northern and Middle Ural maintains a continuous population and economy - Khants, Udmurts, Komi, Nenets, Mansi, Fins, etc. resume their semi-Neolithic lifestyle.\n\nBashkirs and Turkic people are the new indigenous people of the Southern Ural region. But the descendants of the Bulgars from Volga and Ural there are mostly modern Volga Tatars, Chuvash and part of Bashkirs. The hordes of Mongols arrive during the 13th century, followed by the Jochi Ulus, the Golden Horde and the Nogai Horde.\n\nKnown to medieval Russians as the Stone Belt, the Urals were reached in the early 12th century by colonists and fur traders from Novgorod. Colonization developed rapidly in the late 16th century. The first iron works were established in the 1630s, and metallurgy was encouraged by Peter the Great. In the late 18th and early 19th centuries the Ural area was a major iron producer, but its relative importance declined in the late 19th century.\n\nCossacks settled in the Southern Ural along the river Yaik during the colonial period. The Bashkir wars against the Tsarist autocratic regime and the colonizers take place in the Ural. The last major uprising was associated with the name of Don Cossack - Yemelyan Pugachev and his companions - Salavat Yulaev.\n\nUnder the first two Five-Year Plans (1929–39), the tremendous industrial development of the Urals was based on Ural iron ore and coking coal shipped by rail from the Kuznetsk Basin. During World War II, industries were transplanted from European USSR to the Urals, strategically situated in the heart of the USSR. Since the war, coking coal from the Qaraghandy Basin, Kuznetsk coal, and hydroelectric power have supported the metallurgical industry, which has been enormously expanded.\n\nThe Urals industrial area (c.290,000 sq mi/751,100 km), a major Russia metallurgical region, is in the central and S Urals and the adjacent lowlands. Huge industrial centers are found at Yekaterinburg, Magnitogorsk, Chelyabinsk, Perm, Berezniki, Nizhni Tagil, Orsk, Orenburg, Ufa, and Zlatoust.\n\nHistory decreed that on the threshold of the third millennium, in spite of the significantly depleted natural resources, Ural continues to play an important role in the fate of the Russian Federation. From here we went many democratic initiatives of our time. Ural nominated from among themselves the leaders of the reform and the first President of Russia - Boris Yeltsin.\n\n"}
{"id": "32731886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32731886", "title": "Ibn Thabit", "text": "Ibn Thabit\n\nIbn Thabit is an anonymous Hip hop musician from Libya known for his anti-government songs. Thabit has been living in Libya where any form of dissent was banned by law in Muammar Gaddafi's regime and could have resulted in his being arrested and imprisoned, the primary reason for his using an epithet to preserve his anonymity. Ibn Thabit's music is considered to have given a voice to Libyans who wish to express themselves politically and non-violently despite being disenfranchised. Dissenting cultural figures have been arrested and tortured in a number of countries during the Arab Spring.\n\nIbn Thabit considers himself to be an ordinary Libyan who is \"speaking the thoughts of many Libyan youth\". He claims that he is inspired by the people, telling a journalist from the Danish newspaper \"Information\" that he was more affected by conversations with fellow Libyans than by anything else. Not much is known about him other than that he is young, male and Libyan. He is thought to be from Tarhunah. Ibn Thabit was one of the early critics of Gaddafi in 2011, the nascent movement building up to a full-fledged civil war, part of the Arab Spring.\n\nPopular music of kind produced by Ibn Thabit represents the cultural face of the 2011 Libyan civil war. One of his works praises the city of Benghazi.\n\nIbn Thabit has his own website with support from people abroad on which many of his own songs and others produced in collaboration are freely available for download. On his website, Ibn Thabit claims that to have been \"attacking Gaddafi\" with music since 2008, when he posted his first song, \"Moammar - the coward\", on the internet.\n\nLyrics of a song \"Al-Soo'al\" released by Ibn Thabit on YouTube on 27 January 2011, weeks before the riots began in Libya are indicative of the rebel sentiment. Ibn Thabit's music is featured in a compilation of Arabic Spring resistance rap songs by Khala labelled \"Khala's Mixtape Volume 1\".\n\nIbn Thabit has also podcast about reconciliation, an important though controversial subject on the Free Libya Podcast. Ibn Thabit uses the internet and social media such as Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, webcasting, podcasting and other means to spread his music and message. He regularly tweets about his music, news and broadcasts messages to the general populace. Ibn Thabit is the first Libyan blogger to blog in Amazigh, a language spoken by the Berber peoples of North Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "17528862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17528862", "title": "Isi Metzstein", "text": "Isi Metzstein\n\nIsi Israel Metzstein OBE (7 July 1928 – 10 January 2012) was a German-born architect who worked at Gillespie, Kidd & Coia and taught at the Glasgow School of Art. He became known for his postwar architectural designs working in the European modernist style of Le Corbusier and the American Frank Lloyd Wright.\nIsi Metzstein was born in the Mitte district of Berlin in 1928, one of five children. His parents, Efraim and Rachel Metzstein, were Polish Jews who had moved to Germany in 1920. Isi had an older sister, Lee, an older brother, Josef, a twin sister, Jenny, and a younger brother, Leo, In 1933, Isi's father, Efraim, died leaving his mother to raise the five children on her own.\n\nIn November 1938, after Kristallnacht had seen Isi's school set on fire, his mother saw to it that her children were kept safe by sending the 11-year-old Isi and his siblings to Britain on the Kindertransport. With his brothers and sisters scattered around the UK, Isi was taken in by a family in Hardgate, Clydebank before they could all be reunited once more, eventually settling in Glasgow.\n\nAfter leaving Hyndland School in 1945, Isi's professional career as an architect began with taking evening classes in architecture at the Glasgow School of Art and an apprenticeship under Jack Coia at Gillespie, Kidd & Coia. Whilst at the Glasgow School of Art, Isi met Andy MacMillan and the two became friends, often going for drinks together in the Kings Arms on Elmbank Street.\n\nWhen Andy MacMillan joined the firm in 1954, the pair designed many churches, colleges & schools together in the Modernist style.\n\nIn 1969, Isi began teaching at the Glasgow School of Art. and became Professor of Architecture at the University of Edinburgh in 1984 before returning to teach in Glasgow in 1991.\n\n\n\nIsi married Danielle Kahn in 1967 and the pair had three children, Mark, Saul and Ruth.\n\nHe died on 10 January 2012 at their home in Hillhead, Glasgow.\n\nWriting of Isi Metzstein's passing for Architectural Review, Clare Wright noted that:\"With a change of ethos post war, Coia ceded much of the design control to the young Isi and Andy. An early project for St Paul’s Church in Glenrothes (1957) is a modest building of simple form and materials, yet exhibits an extraordinary quality of light and monumental presence which owed much to Le Corbusier. The sixteen churches that followed formed a distinctive body of work. Combining functional requirements with resonant symbolism, they were the perfect vehicle for developing an architectural philosophy, which reached its most mature expression in the design for St Peter’s Seminary at Cardross.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9247239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9247239", "title": "John Kendrew (inventor)", "text": "John Kendrew (inventor)\n\nJohn Kendrew (1748-1800), a Darlington Quaker, is best known for having invented the first effective process for the mechanical spinning of flax. With Thomas Porthouse, a local clockmaker, he built a working machine and together in 1787 they patented the design in both England and Scotland. They licensed the technology to others, and subsequently each built their own mill - Kendrew's being near Haughton le Skerne on the NE outskirts of Darlington. After Kendrew's death, Porthouse took out his own patent, as did others and most flax mills were technological descendants of the Kendrew/Porthouse design. \n\nBy 1776, Kendrew, a self-taught mechanic, had erected a water driven mill on the river Skerne, at Low Mill, just south of Darlington Bridge, for the purpose of grinding spectacle lenses in large numbers.After that date he was frequently described as an 'optician'. This mill continued in operating after his death, and achieved contemporary fame, though claims that it was the first of its kind in the country cannot be upheld. \n"}
{"id": "43195919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43195919", "title": "Krassimir Ivandjiiski", "text": "Krassimir Ivandjiiski\n\nKrassimir Ivanov Ivandjiiski (, born 15 June 1947) is a former Soviet-era Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Trade official who, since 1994, has been the publisher and editor-in-chief of the Bulgarian political news website, \"Strogo Sekretno\" (; English \"Top Secret\"). Krassimir is also the father of Daniel Ivandjiiski, founder of the U.S.-based financial website, Zero Hedge.\n\nIvandjiiski was born on 15 June 1947 in Vrabevo, Bulgaria. He graduated from the English college in Sofia in 1966 and, in 1971, graduated from the Warsaw University of Planning and Economics with an M.Sc. in Foreign Trade. From 1973, Ivandjiiski worked at the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Trade. In 1975, he was an international correspondent for the \"Rabotnichesko Delo\" newspaper. From 1978 to 1982, he was head of the Bulgarian \"Offices for Central Europe: Prague, Warsaw, and Vienna\"; and from 1985 to 1990, was head of the Bulgarian \"Offices for Africa: Zimbabwe and Ethiopia\". \n\nAfter the fall of communism in Eastern Europe, from 1991, Ivandjiiski states that he headed a political and economic think-tank group (the name of the group(s) are not given). From 1984 to 1994, he also states that he was a guest professor in geopolitics, geoeconomics and international relations (the names of the universities are not given). \n\nSince 1994, Ivandjiiski has been the publisher and editor-in-chief of the website \"Strogo Sekretno\" (; English \"Top Secret\"), and monthly publication \"Bulgarian Confidential\". \"Strogo Sekretno\" describes itself as: \"Above all, Top Secret is a national political newspaper. It is the only independent newspaper in Bulgaria, which is the only real alternative to manipulated mass media.\"\n\nIvandjiiski's profile on Strogo Sekretno (Bulgarian: Строго секретно; English \"Top Secret\"), describes him as: \"Married, one son - leading world financial and economic expert\", however, his son is not named. A September 2009 article by New York (magazine), stated that his son is Daniel Ivandjiiski, the founder of the U.S.-based financial website, Zero Hedge. \n\nA 27 March 2012 complaint, named Daniel K. Ivandjiiski of the website, Zero Hedge, as a co-conspirator in a civil suit alleging a \"short and distort\" stock manipulation scheme regarding the GEROVA Financial Group, in which Daniel was vindicated with the SEC prosecuting several major GEROVA investors and company executives in September 2015, who were sentenced to jail in 2017, named his father as Krassimir Ivandjiski, and re-printed translated material from the \"Strogo Sekretno\" website regarding his profile. The complaint stated that in March 2012, the owner of the \"zerohedge.com\" domain name, \"ABC Media Limited\", was registered at the same Sofia, Bulgaria, P.O. Box 814, as the correspondence for \"strogosekretno.com\" website\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3115367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115367", "title": "Leland Jensen", "text": "Leland Jensen\n\nLeland Jensen (22 August 1914 – 6 August 1996) was the founder of a Bahá'í sect called the Bahá'ís Under the Provisions of the Covenant (BUPC). Jensen initially supported the claim of Mason Remey to be the successor to Shoghi Effendi in 1960, resulting in his excommunication from the mainstream Bahá'í community. Jensen went on to propagate his own teachings among a group of followers that observers say probably never exceeded 200, but declined in size significantly from 1990-1996. During his lifetime adherents were mostly concentrated in Montana, with smaller groups in other US states.\n\nJensen gained national attention when on April 26, 1980 he led a group of followers into fallout shelters, expecting an apocalyptic nuclear holocaust. He went on to predict that Halley's Comet would enter earth's orbit on April 29, 1986, and collide with the earth exactly one year later. With Jensen's approval, in the early 1990s his companion Neal Chase made a total of 18 disconfirmed prophecies that pertained to small-scale disasters that he claimed would lead step-by-step towards the Apocalypse, as well as dates for a nuclear attack on New York City by middle Eastern terrorists.\n\nJensen was a third generation Bahá'í on his mother's side. He and his wife, Opal, received doctorates in natural medicine, becoming chiropractic doctors. They attended the School of Drugless Physicians and graduated in 1944. Opal was the valedictorian and Jensen graduated with distinction (cum laude).\n\nAfter they graduated, and after practicing for a while, they moved to St. Louis. In 1953 Shoghi Effendi launched the Ten Year Crusade, which aimed at bringing the message of Bahá'u'lláh to the entire world. Jensen and his wife gave up their practice and went to two tiny islands in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Madagascar. The first island was the French island of Réunion, which practiced Catholicism as the State Religion. He then stayed six months in Mauritius. Jensen and his wife were the first Bahá'ís to visit these islands, and therefore received the title of Knights of Bahá'u'lláh. More than 200 Bahá'ís received the title after moving to areas designated by Shoghi Effendi. His wife Opal died in 1990.\n\nWhen Shoghi Effendi died in 1957 there were no eligible appointees who met the required conditions for successorship, and he died without having appointed a successor. Mason Remey was among the nine Hands of the Cause elected as an interim authority until the election of the first Universal House of Justice in 1963. However, in 1960 Remey declared himself to be the successor of Shoghi Effendi, and expected the allegiance of the world's Bahá'ís. Subsequently, he and his followers were unanimously declared Covenant breakers by the Hands. They reasoned that he lacked a formal appointment from Shoghi Effendi, and that the office was scripturally restricted to male descendants of Bahá'u'lláh. Almost the whole Bahá'í world rejected his claim, but he gained the support of a small but widespread group of Bahá'ís. Jensen was among these first supporters of Remey. In 1964 he moved to Missoula, Montana with his wife where they opened a chiropractic clinic.\n\nIn 1969 Jensen was convicted of \"a lewd and lascivious act\" for sexually molesting a 15-year-old female patient, and served four years of a twenty-year sentence in the Montana State Prison. He claimed to be wrongly convicted, and later taught his followers that his prison stay was instrumental towards fulfilling prophecy. It was in prison that Jensen claimed to have a revelation, and converted several dozen inmates to his idea of being the \"Establisher\" of the Bahá'í Faith, stemming from his belief that the majority of Bahá'ís had followed the wrong leadership and that he was chosen to re-establish a divinely sanctioned order.\n\nHe recruited many followers in prison, and after his parole in 1973 he founded the BUPC. By 1979, his apocalyptic prophecy was receiving national press coverage and he had attracted followers in Wyoming, Colorado, and Arkansas.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1995 Jensen, and his companion Neal Chase, made twenty specific predictions centering nuclear attacks, worldwide catastrophes, and some smaller scale disasters. Jensen himself set two of the dates, while Chase set the other 18. Between 1980 and 1996, four researchers took part in group activities and even stayed the night in three BUPC fallout shelters in 1980.\n\nIn 1979, approximately 6 years after being released from prison, Jensen began teaching his followers that on April 29, 1980 a nuclear holocaust would kill a third of the world's population, and that over the next twenty years, the planet would be ravaged until in the year 2000 \"God's Kingdom\" would be established and a thousand years of peace would follow. On the fateful night, Jensen led a group of followers into fallout shelters in Missoula, Montana.\n\nThe disconfirmed prophecy resulted in Jensen losing several contingents of adherents, and his response was that he was right all along. Over the following years Jensen used several types of explanations, as noted by researcher Robert Balch,\n\nJensen's followers had made substantial commitments to the prediction, building shelters, writing letters to government agencies and newspapers, and distributed thousands of leaflets urging fellow Missoulians to build fall-out shelters. To them the disconfirmation was \"painfully obvious\", and researchers used them as a case study in cognitive dissonance.\n\nOn the day after Jensen's failed prophecy, the local newspaper of Missoula, Montana, the \"Missoulian\", published the following on April 30, 1980:\n\nWhen asked by a UPI reporter Jensen did not express concern that the prediction might not come true, remarking \"There will be a nuclear holocaust some day.\"\n\nAfter the 1980 event, Jensen introduced the idea that the seven-year Tribulation had begun on the date of his prediction of a nuclear holocaust, and thus committed himself to another event happening on the same date in 1987. In 1985 he made the prediction that Halley's Comet would enter Earth's orbit on April 29, 1986, and collide with the Earth exactly one year later. In the interim year, he taught that the comet would break apart, pelt the Earth with debris, and produce massive earthquakes. The new prophecy rekindled his followers, who became excited with the new idea.\n\nAs opposed to the first prediction, this time his followers made very little commitments to the prophecy, and began making disclaimers even before the 1986 event. When the members gathered on the night before the comet was supposed to enter Earth's orbit, nobody mentioned the comet. Jensen later said that the massive earthquakes were fulfilled by a \"spiritual earthquake\" when one of his important followers defected and left him.\n\nBy the 1990s one of Jensen's students had become a protoge and began making his own prophecies with Jensen's approval. Throughout the 1990s Neal Chase made a total of 18 predictions which pertained to small-scale disasters that he claimed would lead step-by-step towards apocalypse, as well as dates for a nuclear attack on New York City by middle Eastern terrorists. He based these predictions on Biblical prophecies, evidence from Hopi prophecies, planetary conjunctions, dreams, numerological coincidences, Nostradamus, and psychics. After each failed prediction, the BUPC adherents carried on as usual, giving disclaimers to future predictions, and focusing on Jensen's other teachings.\n\nJensen taught that the leadership of the mainstream Bahá'í community had gone astray, and that Mason Remey was the next rightful heir to leadership after Shoghi Effendi. Jensen considered himself restoring the rightful leadership, which he believed had been passed to Remey's adopted son Pepe Remey. Pepe denied this claim and refused association with Jensen's group, thus leaving Jensen's followers with no clear scripturally sanctioned leadership.\n\nJensen's followers consisted of roughly 150 people leading up to 1980, but declined in size significantly following the disconfirmed prophecy, with almost all of the believers outside of Montana eventually rejecting Jensen's teachings. In 1994 a membership phone list showed 66 members in Missoula, Montana, and less than 20 in other states.\n\nAs Jensen's own chosen successor, Pepe Remey, refused to participate in his new sect and died in 1994. Jensen approached old age with disconfirmed prophecies, declining membership, and no Guardian to speak of when he died in 1996. A schism over leadership of the group in 2001 resulted in other defections and an unresolved court battle for control of funds.\n\nHaving worked in a print shop while in college, Jensen became a self-publisher. The Bahá'í Publishers Under the Provisions of the Covenant published several of his and other books. A few of his more notable books are: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4233309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4233309", "title": "List of Academy Award Best Actress winners by age", "text": "List of Academy Award Best Actress winners by age\n\nThis is a list of winners of the Academy Award for Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role, presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) to an actress who has delivered an outstanding performance while working within the film industry. More popularly known as the Academy Award (or the Oscar) for Best Actress, this award was initially presented at the 1st Academy Awards ceremony for 1927–1928 and was most recently presented at the 90th Academy Awards ceremony for 2017. Throughout the past 90 years, accounting for ties and repeat winners, AMPAS has presented a total of 91 Best Actress awards to 75 different actresses. This list is current as of the 90th Academy Awards ceremony held on March 4, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16129609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16129609", "title": "List of Maronites", "text": "List of Maronites\n\nThis list of Maronites includes prominent Maronites figures who are notable in their areas of expertise.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11548323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11548323", "title": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: C", "text": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: C\n\n\"Parent article:\" List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people;<br>\n\"Siblings:\"<br>\n\nThis is a partial list of confirmed famous people who were or are gay, lesbian or bisexual. Famous people who are simply rumored to be gay, lesbian or bisexual, are not listed.\n\nThe historical concept, definition and terminology of sexual orientation varies and has changed greatly over time; for example the word \"gay\" wasn't used to describe sexual orientation until the mid 20th century. A number of different classification schemes have been used to describe sexual orientation since the mid-19th century, and scholars have often defined the term \"sexual orientation\" in divergent ways. Indeed, several studies have found that much of the research about sexual orientation has failed to define the term at all, making it difficult to reconcile the results of different studies. However, most definitions include a psychological component (such as the direction of an individual's erotic desire) and/or a behavioural component (which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s). Some prefer to simply follow an individual's self-definition or identity. See homosexuality and bisexuality for criteria that have traditionally denoted lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people.\n\nThe high prevalence of people from the West on this list may be due to societal attitudes towards homosexuality. The Pew Research Center's 2003 Global Attitudes Survey found that \"[p]eople in Africa and the Middle East strongly object to societal acceptance of homosexuality. But there is far greater tolerance for homosexuality in major Latin American countries such as Mexico, Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil. Opinion in Europe is split between West and East. Majorities in every Western European nation surveyed say homosexuality should be accepted by society, while most Russians, Poles and Ukrainians disagree. Americans are divided – a thin majority (51 percent) believes homosexuality should be accepted, while 42 percent disagree.\"\n"}
{"id": "7004434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7004434", "title": "List of state visits made by King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden", "text": "List of state visits made by King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden\n\nSince acceding to the throne of Sweden in 1973, King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden has made a number of state and official visits. He usually hosts one or two visiting heads of state each year.\n"}
{"id": "7629764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7629764", "title": "Lucidor", "text": "Lucidor\n\nLars (Lasse) Johansson (1638 – August 13, 1674), usually referred to under his pseudonym Lucidor, was a Swedish baroque poet. He is remembered for his burlesque poetry that is seen as foreshadowing that of Johan Runius and, especially, Carl Michael Bellman, and for his dramatic death in a tumultuous brawl at the Fimmelstången tavern in Gamla stan in Stockholm. Lasse Johansson wrote under several different pseudonyms, but of these \"Lucidor\" (or \"Lucidor den olycklige\", \"Lucidor the Unfortunate\", as he called himself on occasion) is the one under which he is commonly known today.\n\nLars Johansson was born in Stockholm. His father was a naval officer and his grandfather was admiral Lars Strusshielm, who was appointed head of a Swedish naval shipyard in Pomerania in 1638. A few years later, Strusshielm's daughter and son-in-law followed him to Pomerania, where Lars Johansson and his four siblings grew up. Both parents were dead by 1650, and the grandfather died in 1653. Lasse spent four years, from 1655 to 1659 at the university of Greifswald and from early 1659 at the university in Leipzig, where he was expelled just before Christmas 1659, after a brawl with the town guards. His biography during the following years is unclear, but he travelled to France, possibly as a tutor, and is said to have lived in poverty in Stockholm. He may have spent time with a travelling group of comedians, and is reported to have returned to Stockholm with these in 1668. During the winter 1668/69, he was enrolled as a student in Uppsala, but appeared to have spent his time there as a language tutor for students; an appointment as a teacher of modern languages fell through.\n\nA significant part of his modest income appears to have come from writing occasional poetry for weddings and burials. One piece brought him in trouble: \"Giliare Kwaal\" (\"A suitor's sufferings\"), a poem for the wedding in November 1669 of the powerful nobleman Conrad Gyllenstierna to Märta Christina Ulfsparre. Lucidor had previously written a well-received poem for the wedding of Conrad's brother Christoffer Gyllenstierna. \"Giliare Kwaal\", however, was received as libel by Conrad Gyllenstierna, who reported the author to Svea hovrätt, the appeal court. The poet was arrested and spent several months in prison until the process was finally at an end in the summer of 1670. Neither the town court in Stockholm nor the appeal court found the poem libellous, but the sentence still warned the poet to \"use his pencil more carefully hereafter\". The Lucidor scholar Stina Hansson explains the problems with the poem in that the author did not follow the conventions for which motifs were conventional for addressee of a particular social standing, and had broken the rules by using a style more suitable for occasional poetry in a bourgeois setting. After his run-in with the Gyllenstierna, Lucidor became much more careful in exactly following the conventions in this respect.\n\nLucidor's best remembered poem, the ballad \"Skulle Jag sörja då wore Jag tokot\" (\"If I would mourn, I would be crazy\") is traditionally said to have been written during his time in prison.\n\nLucidor was killed in a bar brawl-turned-duel with a Lieutenant Arvid Christian Storm.\n\nThree of Lucidor's religious songs were published in 1685 under the name \"Lucida intervalla\", edited by Haquin Spegel. These remained part of the hymn book of the Church of Sweden into the 20th century. In 1689, Johan Andersin, an accountant who had been a friend of Lucidor, published a collection of his poetry with the title \"Helicons blomster/ plåckade ok wid åtskillige tillfällen utdelte af Lucidor den olycklige\", subtitled \"det är alle de poëtiske skriffter som författade blefne af Lasse Johanson\".\n\n\"Helicons blomster\" was republished in 1835, and a new collection including some additional poems was published in 1865. Modern editions have been published by Fredrik sandwall in 1914-30 and by Stina Hansson in 1997.\n\nLucidor was not highly appreciated in the 18th century, but Carl Michael Bellman is known to have been familiar with Lucidor and refers to him and Runius together in one of his \"Epistles of Fredman\" (No 24):\n\nThe interest in Lucidor was re-awakened in the romantic period. The main authors influencing the image of Lucidor were Per Daniel Amadeus Atterbom, Oscar Levertin and (in the early 20th century) Erik Axel Karlfeldt.\n\nIn the late 20th century, Lucidor has been the topic of a novel by Torbjörn Säfve.\n\nThe musicologist and musician Martin Bagge (who is also known as an interpreter of the works of Bellman) has published a collection of Lucidor's poems with musical annotation, and a CD recording them. It has been known that many of Lucidor's poems were written to be sung but no melodies have been preserved. Assuming that Lucidor borrowed melodies popular in his time (as many other poets of the time, and later Bellman, did), Bagge has attempted to reconstruct the music by matching the metrics with hymns and other songs with which the poet would have been familiar.\n\n"}
{"id": "15822899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15822899", "title": "Man", "text": "Man\n\nA man is a male human. The term \"man\" is usually reserved for an adult male, with the term \"boy\" being the usual term for a male child or adolescent. However, the term \"man\" is also sometimes used to identify a male human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as \"men's basketball\".\n\nLike most other male mammals, a man's genome typically inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father. The male fetus produces larger amounts of androgens and smaller amounts of estrogens than a female fetus. This difference in the relative amounts of these sex steroids is largely responsible for the physiological differences that distinguish men from women. During puberty, hormones which stimulate androgen production result in the development of secondary sexual characteristics, thus exhibiting greater differences between the sexes. However, there are exceptions to the above for some transgender and intersex men.\n\nThe English term \"man\" is derived from a Proto-Indo-European root \"*man-\" (see Sanskrit/Avestan \"manu-\", Slavic \"mǫž\" \"man, male\"). More directly, the word derives from Old English \"mann.\" The Old English form had a default meaning of \"adult male\" (which was the exclusive meaning of \"wer\"), though it could also signify a person of unspecified gender. The closely related Old English pronoun \"man\" was used just as it is in Modern German to designate \"one\" (e. g., in the saying \"man muss mit den Wölfen heulen\").\nThe Old English form is derived from Proto-Germanic \"*mannz\", \"human being, person\", which is also the etymon of German \"Mann\" \"man, husband\" and \"man\" \"one\" (pronoun), Old Norse \"maðr\", and Gothic \"manna\". According to Tacitus, the mythological progenitor of the Germanic tribes was called \"Mannus\". \"*Manus\" in Indo-European mythology was the first man, see Mannus, Manu (Hinduism).\n\nThe term manhood is used to describe the period in a human male's life after he has transitioned from boyhood, having passed through puberty, usually having attained male secondary sexual characteristics, and symbolises a male's coming of age. The word \"man\" is used to mean any adult male. In English-speaking countries, many other words can also be used to mean an adult male such as \"guy\", \"dude\", \"buddy\", \"bloke\", \"fellow\", \"chap\" and sometimes \"boy\" or \"lad\". The term \"manhood\" is associated with masculinity and virility, which refer to male qualities and male gender roles.\n\nHumans exhibit sexual dimorphism in many characteristics, many of which have no direct link to reproductive ability, although most of these characteristics do have a role in sexual attraction. Most expressions of sexual dimorphism in humans are found in height, weight, and body structure, though there are always examples that do not follow the overall pattern. For example, men tend to be taller than women, but there are many people of both sexes who are in the mid-height range for the species.\n\nSome examples of male secondary sexual characteristics in humans, those acquired as boys become men or even later in life, are:\n\nIn mankind, the sex of an individual is generally determined at the time of fertilization by the genetic material carried in the sperm cell. If a sperm cell carrying an X chromosome fertilizes the egg, the offspring will typically be female (XX); if a sperm cell carrying a Y chromosome fertilizes the egg, the offspring will typically be male (XY). Persons whose anatomy or chromosomal makeup differ from this pattern are referred to as intersex.\n\nThis is referred to as the XY sex-determination system and is typical of most mammals, but quite a few other sex-determination systems exist, including some that are non-genetic.\n\nThe term \"primary sexual characteristics\" denotes the kind of gamete the gonad produces: the ovary produces egg cells in the female, and the testis produces sperm cells in the male. The term \"secondary sexual characteristics\" denotes all other sexual distinctions that play indirect roles in uniting sperm and eggs. Secondary sexual characteristics include everything from the specialized male and female features of the genital tract, to the brilliant plumage of male birds or facial hair of humans, to behavioral features such as courtship.\n\nBiological factors are not sufficient determinants of whether a person considers themselves a man or is considered a man. Intersex individuals, who have physical or genetic features considered to be mixed or atypical for one sex or the other, may use other criteria in making a clear determination. There are also transgender and transsexual men, who were assigned as female at birth, but identify as men; there are varying social, legal and individual definitions with regard to these issues. (See trans man.)\n\nThe male sex organs are part of the reproductive system, consisting of the penis, testicles, vas deferens, and the prostate gland. The male reproductive system's function is to produce semen which carries sperm and thus genetic information that can unite with an egg within a woman. Since sperm that enters a woman's uterus and then fallopian tubes goes on to fertilize an egg which develops into a fetus or child, the male reproductive system plays no necessary role during the gestation. The concept of fatherhood and family exists in human societies. The study of male reproduction and associated organs is called andrology.\n\nIn mammals, the hormones that influence sexual differentiation and development are androgens (mainly testosterone), which stimulate later development of the ovary. In the sexually undifferentiated embryo, testosterone stimulates the development of the Wolffian ducts, the penis, and closure of the labioscrotal folds into the scrotum. Another significant hormone in sexual differentiation is the anti-Müllerian hormone, which inhibits development of the Müllerian ducts.\n\nIn general, men suffer from many of the same illnesses as women. In comparison to women, men suffer from slightly more illnesses. Male life expectancy is slightly lower than female life expectancy, although the difference has narrowed in recent years.\n\nFor males during puberty, testosterone, along with gonadotropins released by the pituitary gland, stimulates spermatogenesis, along with the full sexual distinction of a human male from a human female, while women are acted upon by estrogens and progesterone to produce their sexual differences from the human male.\n\nMasculinity has its roots in genetics (see gender). Therefore, while masculinity looks different in different cultures, there are common aspects to its definition across cultures. In the past, and still among traditional and non-Western cultures, the most common and definitive sign of becoming a man is getting married. Modern American manhood is less tied to marriage itself, but some qualities traditionally associated with it, such as the \"triple Ps\" of \"protecting, providing, and procreating,\" are still considered signs of having achieved manhood. \n\nSometimes gender scholars will use the phrase \"hegemonic masculinity\" to distinguish the most dominant form of masculinity from other variants. In the mid-twentieth century United States, for example, John Wayne might embody one form of masculinity, while Albert Einstein might be seen as masculine, but not in the same \"hegemonic\" fashion. \n\nAnthropology has shown that masculinity itself has social status, just like wealth, race and social class. In western culture, for example, greater masculinity usually brings greater social status. Many English words such as \"virtue\" and \"virile\" (from the Indo-European root \"vir\" meaning \"man\") reflect this. An association with physical or moral strength is implied. Masculinity is associated more commonly with adult men than with boys.\n\nA great deal is now known about the development of biological masculine characteristics, such as the hormonal changes that make it possible for men to grow a beard. The process of sexual differentiation specific to the reproductive system of \"Homo sapiens\" produces a female by default. The SRY gene on the Y chromosome, however, interferes with the default process, causing a chain of events that, all things being equal, leads to testes formation, androgen production, and a range of both pre-natal and post-natal hormonal effects covered by the terms \"masculinization\" or \"virilization\". Because masculinization redirects biological processes from the default female route, it is more precisely called \"defeminization\".\n\nThere is an extensive debate about how children develop gender identities.\n\nIn many cultures displaying characteristics not typical to one's gender may become a social problem for the individual. Among men, the exhibition of feminine behavior may be considered a sign of homosexuality, while the same is for a woman who exhibits masculine behavior. Within sociology such labeling and conditioning is known as gender assumptions and is a part of socialization to better match a culture's mores. The corresponding social condemnation of excessive masculinity may be expressed in terms such as \"machismo\" or \"testosterone poisoning.\"\n\nThe relative importance of the roles of socialization and genetics in the development of masculinity continues to be debated. While social conditioning obviously plays a role, it can also be observed that certain aspects of the masculine identity exist in almost all human cultures.\n\nThe historical development of gender role is addressed by such fields as behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology, human ecology and sociobiology. All human cultures seem to encourage the development of gender roles, through literature, costume and song. Some examples of this might include the epics of Homer, the King Arthur tales in English, the normative commentaries of Confucius or biographical studies of Muhammad. More specialized treatments of masculinity may be found in works such as the \"Bhagavad Gita\" or bushido's \"Hagakure\".\n\nWell into prehistoric culture, men are believed to have assumed a variety of social and cultural roles which are likely similar across many groups of humans. In hunter-gatherer societies, men were often if not exclusively responsible for all large game killed, the capture and raising of most or all domesticated animals, the building of permanent shelters, the defense of villages, and other tasks where the male physique and strong spatial-cognition were most useful. Some anthropologists believe that it may have been men who led the Neolithic Revolution and became the first pre-historical ranchers, as a possible result of their intimate knowledge of animal life.\n\nThroughout history, the roles of men have changed greatly. As societies have moved away from agriculture as a primary source of jobs, the emphasis on male physical ability has waned. Traditional gender roles for working men typically involved jobs emphasizing moderate to hard manual labor (see Blue-collar worker), often with no hope for increase in wage or position. For poorer men among the working classes, the need to support their families, especially during periods of industrial change and economic decline, forced them to stay in dangerous jobs working long arduous hours, often without retirement. Many industrialized countries have seen a shift to jobs which are less physically demanding, with a general reduction in the percentage of manual labor needed in the work force (see White-collar worker). The male goal in these circumstances is often of pursuing a quality education and securing a dependable, often office-environment, source of income.\n\nThe Men's Movement is in part a struggle for the recognition of equality of opportunity with women, and for equal rights irrespective of gender, even if special relations and conditions are willingly incurred under the form of partnership involved in marriage. The difficulties of obtaining this recognition are due to the habits and customs recent history has produced. Through a combination of economic changes and the efforts of the feminist movement in recent decades, men in some societies now compete with women for jobs that traditionally excluded women. Some larger corporations have instituted tracking systems to try to ensure that jobs are filled based on merit and not just on traditional gender selection. Assumptions and expectations based on sex roles both benefit and harm men in Western society (as they do women, but in different ways) in the workplace as well as on the topics of education, violence, health care, politics, and fatherhood – to name a few. Research has identified anti-male sexism in some areas which can result in what appear to be unfair advantages given to women.\n\nThe Parsons model was used to contrast and illustrate extreme positions on gender roles. Model A describes total separation of male and female roles, while Model B describes the complete dissolution of barriers between gender roles. The examples are based on the context of the culture and infrastructure of the United States. However, these extreme positions are rarely found in reality; actual behavior of individuals is usually somewhere between these poles. The most common 'model' followed in real life in the United States and Great Britain is the 'model of double burden'.\n\nSome positions and titles are reserved for men only. For example, the position of Pope and Bishop in the Roman Catholic Church. Also the priesthood is exclusively male in the Catholic Church and also some other religious traditions. Men are often given priority for the position of monarch (King in the case of a man) of a country, as it usually passes to the eldest male child upon succession.\n\nMedical:\n\nDynamics:\n\nPolitical:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48350265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48350265", "title": "Marius Aam", "text": "Marius Aam\n\nMarius Aam (born 14 November 1980) is a retired Norwegian football defender who notably played in Tippeligaen for Aalesund.\n\nHe started his career in Aalesund, and played first-tier fotball for them in Tippeligaen 2003 and 2005. He was not a first-team regular, and quit the team in early 2006. The next season, he fielded for Ålesund's second best club at the time, Skarbøvik IF.\n\nLeaving Skarbøvik ahead of the 2009 season, he later featured for sixth-tier club Hessa. He also made a comeback in Skarbøvik.\n"}
{"id": "274364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274364", "title": "Martin Guerre", "text": "Martin Guerre\n\nMartin Guerre, a French peasant of the , was at the center of a famous case of imposture. Several years after Martin Guerre had left his wife, child, and village, a man claiming to be him reappeared. He lived with Guerre's wife and son for three years. \n\nThe false Martin Guerre was eventually suspected of the impersonation. He was tried, discovered to be a man named Arnaud du Tilh, and executed. The real Martin Guerre had returned during the trial. The case continues to be studied and dramatized to this day.\n\nMartin Daguerre was born around 1524 in the Basque town of Hendaye. In 1527, his family moved to the village of Artigat in the Pyrenees of southwestern France. They changed their name to Guerre. When he was about fourteen years old, Martin married Bertrande de Rols, the daughter of a well-off family. The marriage was childless for eight years until a son was born.\n\nAccused of stealing grain from his father, Martin abruptly disappeared in 1548.\nRoman Catholic canon law did not allow his abandoned wife to remarry. (The Protestant Huguenots who were then winning converts in France would have allowed such a remarriage.)\n\nOn the summer of 1556, a man arrived in Artigat who claimed to be the long-gone Martin Guerre. By his similar looks and detailed knowledge of Guerre's life, he convinced most of the villagers. Martin Guerre's uncle and four sisters, as well as his wife Bertrande, believed the man was Guerre, as he claimed, although doubts remained.\n\nThe \"new\" Martin Guerre lived for three years with Bertrande and her son; they had two children together, with one daughter surviving. \"Martin\" claimed the inheritance of Guerre's father, who had died. He sued Guerre's paternal uncle Pierre Guerre for part of the inheritance.\n\nPierre Guerre, who had married Bertrande's widowed mother during Martin Guerre's long absence, became suspicious. He and his wife tried to convince Bertrande that the new Martin was an impostor. A soldier who passed through Artigat claimed the man was a fraud: he said the true Martin had lost a leg in the war. Pierre and his sons-in-law attacked the new Martin with a club, but Bertrande intervened.\n\nIn 1559, villagers accused the new Martin of arson and of impersonating the real Martin Guerre. With Bertrande remaining on his side, he was acquitted in 1560.\n\nIn the meantime, Pierre Guerre had been asking around and believed he had uncovered the identity of the impostor: Arnaud du Tilh, nicknamed \"Pansette\"\",\" a man with a poor reputation from the nearby village of Tilh, in the region of Sajas. Pierre initiated a new case against the man by falsely claiming to act in Bertrande's name (only the wronged wife could bring the suit). He and his wife, Bertrande's mother, pressured Bertrande to support the charge. Eventually she agreed.\n\nIn 1560, the case was tried in Rieux. Bertrande testified that at first she had honestly believed the man to be her husband, but that she had since realized that he was a fraud. Both Bertrande and the accused independently related an identical story about their intimate life from before 1548.\n\nThe man claiming to be Martin then challenged her: if she would swear that he was not her husband, he would gladly agree to be executed – Bertrande remained silent. After hearing from more than 150 witnesses, with many testifying they recognized Martin Guerre (including his four sisters), many others testifying to Arnaud du Tilh's identity, and others refusing to take a side, the accused impostor was convicted and sentenced to death by beheading.\n\nThe condemned man immediately appealed to the \"Parlement\" of Toulouse. Officials arrested Bertrande and Pierre on charges of possible false accusation and, in the case of Pierre, soliciting perjury. The new Martin eloquently argued his case, and the judges in Toulouse tended to believe his version of the story: that Bertrande was pressured to perjury by the greedy Pierre Guerre. The accused had to undergo detailed questioning about his past; his statements were double-checked, and no contradictions were found.\n\nThen, dramatically, a man appeared in Toulouse during the trial, with a wooden leg, claiming to be the true Martin Guerre. When asked about the married couple's past, the man had forgotten some details and was not able to answer the questions as well as the alleged impostor; however, when the two men were both presented to the Guerre family, the case was closed: Pierre, Bertrande, and Martin's four sisters all agreed that the newly arrived man was the true Martin Guerre.\n\nThe impostor Arnaud du Tilh, who maintained his innocence, was convicted and sentenced to death for adultery and fraud; the public sentencing on 12 September 1560 was attended by Michel de Montaigne. Afterward, the condemned confessed: he had learned about Guerre's life after two men had confused him with Guerre; he had then decided to take Guerre's place, with two conspirators helping him with the details. He apologized to all involved, including Bertrande, for having deceived them. He was hanged in front of Martin Guerre's house in Artigat four days later.\n\nDuring his long absence from Artigat, the real Martin Guerre had moved to Spain, where he served in the militia for a cardinal, and next in the army of Pedro de Mendoza. As part of the Spanish army, he was sent to Flanders and participated in the Spanish attack on St. Quentin on 10 August 1557. There, he was wounded, and his leg had to be amputated.\n\nGuerre lived for years in a monastery before returning to his wife and family. The reason for his return at the time of the trial is unknown. Initially, he rejected his wife's apologies, maintaining that she should have known better than to take another man.\n\nTwo contemporary accounts of the case were written: \"Histoire Admirable\" by Guillaume Le Sueur and the better-known \"Arrest Memorable\" by Jean de Coras, one of the trial judges in Toulouse.\n\nIn 1983, Princeton University history professor Natalie Zemon Davis published a detailed exploration of the case in her book \"The Return of Martin Guerre\". She argued that Bertrande had silently or explicitly agreed to the fraud because she needed a husband in that society, and she was treated well by Arnaud. Davis noted as evidence for this theory the improbability of a woman's mistaking a stranger for her husband, Bertrande's support for Arnaud until (and even partially during) the trial, and their shared story of intimacy, likely prepared in advance.\n\nThe historian Robert Finlay has criticized Davis's conclusions, arguing that Bertrande was duped (as most of her contemporaries believed, including the trial judges) after her husband's long absence. He thought that Davis attempted to read-in a modern societal model of an independent woman making her own choices onto the historical account. He points to the improbability of Bertrande's charging her own accomplice with fraud, as she would run the risk of having to defend herself against charges of adultery or false accusation.\n\nDavis responded to Finlay's arguments in her article \"On the Lame\" in the same issue of \"The American Historical Review\" in June 1988.\n\nThe unusual story has continued to fascinate and inspire many writers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9389326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9389326", "title": "Nikita Borisov", "text": "Nikita Borisov\n\nNikita Borisov is a cryptographer and computer security researcher, currently an associate professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). His notable work includes one of the first cryptanalyses of the WEP wireless encryption protocol together with Ian Goldberg and David Wagner, and the design of the Off-the-Record Messaging protocol with Goldberg.\n\nBorisov received a B. Math in computer science and pure math in 1997 from the University of Waterloo. He received an M.S. and a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley in 2002 and 2005, respectively.\n\nBorisov is an avid runner and completed the Illinois Marathon in April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "56679575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56679575", "title": "Obama-Trump voters", "text": "Obama-Trump voters\n\nIn the United States, Obama-Trump voters (also known as Trump Democrats) voted for Democratic Party nominee Barack Obama in the 2008 and/or 2012 presidential elections, but later defected from their party to vote for Republican Party nominee Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nA study by the Democracy Fund Voter Study Group found that 9.2% of Obama voters voted for Trump in 2016. According to the American National Election Study, 13% of Trump voters had voted for Obama in 2012. Some analysts have argued that these voters had a disproportionately large impact on the 2016 election because they were concentrated in key swing states in the Midwest, while others have said that they were actually \"Obama Republicans\" rather than Democrats to begin with. A May 2017 analysis by Global Strategy Group estimated that Obama-Trump voters accounted for more than two-thirds of Hillary Clinton's loss.\n\nDana Milbank has disputed both the quantity and the significance of Obama-Trump voters in deciding the outcome of the 2016 election. Milbank argued in an August 2017 \"Washington Post\" column that the number of such voters was initially overstated, and that most of them were Republicans who only defected from their party to vote for Obama, not Democrats who defected to support Trump. Nate Cohn responded to Milbank's criticism by arguing that Milbank's focus on national data obscured the magnitude of Democratic defection to support Trump. Cohn noted that when looking specifically at white Obama voters with no higher education than a high school diploma, Clinton only won 74% (based on data from the Democracy Fund Voter Study Group) or 78% (based on the Cooperative Congressional Election Study (CCES)).\nShortly before the 2016 election, the \"New York Times\" reported that Obama voters who now planned to vote for Trump felt that Trump was now the embodiment of the \"change\" they had hoped for when they voted for Obama. Multiple focus groups of Obama-Trump voters convened by the Roosevelt Institute and Democracy Corps in early 2017 showed that, in general, these voters wanted to change the status quo, and had skeptical views of Congressional Republicans and their proposals. The same focus groups also indicated that these voters hoped that President Trump would help reduce health care costs for working-class Americans, and that they were anxious about some immigrant groups. A survey conducted by the Democracy Fund Voter Study Group found that Obama-Trump voters generally had liberal views on economic issues, but conservative views on social issues. Data from the CCES indicate that 75% of Obama-Trump voters supported repealing the Affordable Care Act.\n\nA September 2017 poll found that 70% of Obama-Trump voters approved of the job Trump was doing as president. This figure was significantly lower than the 88% approval rating among all Trump voters. Similarly, the percent of voters who disapprove of Trump's performance in this poll was much higher among Obama-Trump voters (22%) than among Trump voters as a whole (9%).\n"}
{"id": "47933889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47933889", "title": "Particular social group", "text": "Particular social group\n\nParticular social group (PSG) is one of five categories that may be used to claim refugee status according to two key United Nations documents: the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees. The other four categories are race, religion, nationality, and political opinion. As the most ambiguous and open-ended of the categories, the PSG category has been the subject of considerable debate and controversy in refugee law. Note that just as with the other four categories, membership in a PSG is not sufficient grounds for being granted refugee status. Rather, to be granted refugee status, one must both demonstrate membership in one of the five categories (race, religion, nationality, particular political opinion, and particular social group) and a \"nexus\" between that membership and persecution one is facing or risks facing.\n\nPSG determination is part of the general refugee determination process in most countries that are signatories to the 1951 Convention. In particular, these decisions are made by the immigration bureaucracies, immigration courts, and the general courts (to which immigration decisions may need to be appealed). Past decisions create guidelines and precedents for future decisions in the same country. In general, decisions in one country do not create precedents for decisions in other countries, but there is some influence through the influence on periodically updated UNHCR guidelines and through lawyers' use of these cases. Two particularly seminal decisions influencing PSG determination worldwide have been \"Matter of Acosta\" (1985, United States), and \"Ward\" (1993, Canada).\n\nExamples of PSGs identified in various countries include women (and various subsets thereof), homosexuals and others with non-mainstream sexual orientations, specific families, and the poor.\n\nIn 2002, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) published updated guidance for the interpretation of the PSG category.\n\n\nThe UNHCR document identified two approaches have been used to determine membership in and legitimacy of PSGs:\n\n\nThe UNHCR document provides the following guidance regarding the interpretation of the protected characteristic approach:\n\nA particular social group is a group of persons who share a common characteristic other than their risk of being persecuted, or who are perceived as a group by society. The characteristic will often be one which is innate, unchangeable, or which is otherwise fundamental to identity, conscience or the exercise of one’s human rights.\n\nThe UNHCR document offered the following additional guidelines regarding PSG membership:\n\n\nThe application of the PSG criterion in the United States is governed by decisions and clarifications made by the Board of Immigration Appeals as well as the United States courts of appeals. Officials and judges have considerable interpretive latitude in determining PSG status.\n\nIn \"Matter of Acosta\" (1985), the Board of Immigration Appeals interpreted the 1951 Convention to come up with a rule of thumb for determining what constitutes a PSG for the purpose of the Convention. BIA compared it to the other four grounds for refugee status, and noted that two of them (race and nationality) were based on characteristics that one \"cannot\" change, whereas the other two (religion and political opinion) were based on characteristics one \"should not be required to change\". Generalizing from this, they argued that for a group to qualify as a PSG for the purpose of refugee status, it must be either a characteristic one cannot change or a characteristic one should not be required to change. This approach would be characterized by the UNHCR in 2002 as the \"protected characteristics\" approach.\n\nDrawing on the 2002 UNHCR guidelines, a series of decisions by BIA made 2008 onward gave importance to two additional criteria for defining a PSG: particularity and social visibility. However, unlike the UNHCR guidelines, which suggested social visibility as a way to identify PSGs that might get filtered out by the protected characteristics approach, the BIA decisions endorsed the logic that these criteria need to be met over and above the protected characteristic criterion.\n\n\nThe BIA decisions received criticism from many angles. Some critics argued that the notions of particularity and social visibility had been conflated, and that the decision left unclear whether social visibility ought to be interpreted as literal or figurative visibility.\n\nRefugee law in Australia is decided \"de facto\" by refugee tribunals and the Federal Court of Australia. As with the United States, judges have considerable interpretive latitude and decisions create precedents for further decisions.\n\nOne of the distinguishing features of the PSG definition in Australia has been the \"discretion\" requirement, particularly in connection with sexuality. While the Australian courts have generally accepted that if somebody needs to hide his or her political or religious beliefs in order be free from persecution, that itself counts as persecution, the same logic was not applied to homosexuality or other non-standard sexual orientations. The courts have upheld the view that sexuality is not something that one needs to openly disclose, so if one can be free from persecution by hiding it, then one does not qualify for refugee status. This contradicts the view expressed in UNHCR documents, where it is said that people's ability to prevent persecution by hiding their status does not undermine the case for persecution.\n\nThe Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada is responsible for guidelines related to determining refugee status, including criteria for membership in a particular social group. The IRB and various scholars of Canadian refugee law have identified two key Supreme Court of Canada decisions that have helped delineate the definition of PSG: \"Canada (Attorney General) v. Ward\" (1993) and \"Chan v. Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration)\" (1995).\n\nThe \"Ward\" decision cited the Supreme Court's use of tests in \"Mayers\", \"Cheung\", and the United States' \"Matter of Acosta\" to identify three possible categories of PSGs:\n\n\nThe IRB has identified the Supreme Court of Canada's decision in \"Ward\" as providing an interpretative foundation for PSG membership.\n\nThe categories identified in \"Ward\" were further clarified in \"Chan\":\n\n\nPSGs identified in Canadian jurisprudence include the family, homosexuals, trade unions, the poor, women subject to abuse or coercion of various kinds, and others.\n\nAsylum cases are first processed by the Home Office. They may be appealed to the First-Tier Tribunal of the Immigration and Asylum Chambers. The unsuccessful side may appeal to the Upper Tribunal. The unsuccessful side may then appeal to the Court of Appeal. Precedents may be set by previous decisions at each stage.\n\nAsylum decisions in the UK based on particular social groups have stressed the need to make a two-fold case:\n\n\nIn 1999, the House of Lords in the United Kingdom granted asylum to two Pakistani women based on severe violence they faced at their husbands' hands and their fears of false charges of adultery. The case established \"three\" necessary conditions for women to get asylum for domestic violence based on particular social group status:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46939982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46939982", "title": "Pedro Pardo de Cela", "text": "Pedro Pardo de Cela\n\nPedro Pardo de Cela Rodriguez de Aguiar e Ribadeneyra (died October 3, 1483) was a fifteenth century Marshal of Galicia, son of Joam Nunes Pardo, señor de la Torre Cela and Doña Teresa Rodriguez de Aguiar.\n\nHe was beheaded on October 3, 1483, along with his son Peter, in front of the cathedral of Mondoñedo by order of the Catholic Monarchs.\n\nPedro Pardo de Cela was a feudal lord. Supporter of the Infanta Joanna la Beltraneja, the death of her father, Henry IV of Castile faced the policy of the new kings of Castile, Isabella I of Castile and her husband, Ferdinand II of Aragon.\n\nHe was married to the daughter of the first Earl of Lemos, Isabel Perez Osorio. The latter came with his uncle, Pedro Enríquez, bishop of Mondoñedo, city of Mondoñedo, where Pardo de Cela was merino representing the House of Lemos. Bishop Pedro Enriquez gave her wedding dowry in 1441 all the revenues of the bishopric, except those needed for their livelihood, made up most of the castles and fortresses of the bishopric dependent, counting among them the reconstructed castle Frouxeira . Bishop Pedro Enriquez had previously been cantor of the Cathedral of Orense, the son of Enrique Enriquez, brother Fadrique Enríquez of Castile, Duke of Arjona.\n\nHe died a bishop in 1445, he moved to Vivero, where he became mayor in 1474 obtaining the title of marshal. Buy the \"casa do Carballo of Galdo,\" head of his morgado. In the year 1476 it is removed from the hall by the Catholic Monarchs. In 1478 he was expelled from Vivero and the Catholic Monarchs wrote to the municipalities of Santa Marta de Ortigueira and Mondoñedo so they would not allow their entry. Ask for a letter of \"safe harbor\" to the Kings and took refuge in the Castle gives Frouxeira, where he is strong with \"the other two Pedros\", Pedro de Bolaño and Pedro de Miranda, and defeat the Spanish troops, commanded by Fernando Cunha, son of the Count of Buendia, and Luis de Mudarra, who came to Galicia in September 1480 to \"pacify\" the Kingdom.\n\nPedro Pardo de Cela's last will was found in 2013, and it revealed that many of the stories told about him were not true.\n\n"}
{"id": "2032398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2032398", "title": "Percy and Florence Arrowsmith", "text": "Percy and Florence Arrowsmith\n\nPercy Arrowsmith (March 13, 1900 – June 15, 2005) and Flo(rence) Arrowsmith (October 31, 1904 – April 9, 2007) were, until Percy's death, a long time married couple residing in Hereford, England.\n\nOn June 1, 2005 they erroneously made it into the \"Guinness Book of Records\" for the longest marriage for a living couple and the oldest aggregate age of a married couple. They had been married for 80 years, having married in Hereford in 1925, three years after they met.\n\nHowever, \"Le Monde\" newspaper revealed that one couple in France was even older than the Arrowsmiths: André Léon Alphonse Debry (June 15, 1898 - August 31, 2005) and Marguerite Pingaud (October 10, 1903 - January 2006) were married on August 12, 1924 and celebrated their 81st wedding anniversary in August 2005 shortly before the husband's death.\n\nPercy died only exactly two weeks later on at age 105 and Florence died almost two years afterwards at age 102.\n\n"}
{"id": "29042216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29042216", "title": "Peter Andreevich Tkachev", "text": "Peter Andreevich Tkachev\n\nPeter Andreevich Tkachev was a Russian weapons engineer for TsNIITochMash. He is known to have worked on and modifiy various weapons such as the AO-38, AO-46, AO-62 and AO-63 assault rifles as well as developing the Balanced Automatics Recoil System (BARS) used in the AK-107.\n"}
{"id": "5259531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259531", "title": "Pierre Louis de Saffon", "text": "Pierre Louis de Saffon\n\nPierre Louis de Saffon (1724, France – August 1784, Demerara) was a French duellist that escaped to exile in the Dutch colony of Demerara, now in Guyana, only to later become a wealthy land owner. He had fought his brother in a duel and killed him. He fled to Demerara where he became a penitent exile and later developed into a wealthy planter. He thought it best to leave a lasting memorial of his sorrow for having killed his brother and named two of his estates Le Repentir—the repentant, and La Penitence—the penitent. His will, dated 25 February 1784, and written in French, instructed that the revenue from his estate, after other bequests, be bestowed in perpetuity for the maintenance of 10 poor destitute orphans until they reached the age of 16 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1599208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599208", "title": "Pierrette Ringuette", "text": "Pierrette Ringuette\n\nPierrette Ringuette (born December 31, 1955), also formerly known as Pierrette Ringuette-Maltais, is a Canadian Senator.\n\nRinguette, a businesswoman and professor, was the first francophone woman to be elected to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick. She sat in the body as a member of the New Brunswick Liberal Party beginning in 1987.\n\nIn the 1993 federal election, she won a seat in the House of Commons of Canada as the Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for Madawaska—Victoria by defeating Progressive Conservative Cabinet Minister Bernard Valcourt.\n\nShe was defeated in the subsequent 1997 federal election, one of a number of Maritime Liberal MPs who lost their seats that year.\n\nAfter her electoral defeat, she joined Canada Post Corporation in a senior position as manager of the international trade development unit.\n\nOn December 12, 2002, she was appointed to the Senate on the recommendation of Prime Minister Jean Chrétien.\n\nOn January 29, 2014, Liberal Party leader Justin Trudeau announced all Liberal Senators, including Ringuette, were removed from the Liberal caucus, and would continue sitting as Independents. The Senators referred to themselves as the Senate Liberal Caucus even though they are no longer members of the parliamentary Liberal caucus.\n\nRinguette announced, on February 2, 2016 that she was leaving the Senate Liberal caucus to sit as an Independent saying, in a statement, that \"Canadians have been clear in their desire for a non-partisan Senate. The status quo is not acceptable.\"\n\nShe has a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Moncton and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Ottawa. She has completed the coursework for a Master of Industrial Relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36684084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36684084", "title": "Prabhatsinh Pratapsinh Chauhan", "text": "Prabhatsinh Pratapsinh Chauhan\n\nPrabhatsinh Pratapsinh Chauhan is a member of the 15th Lok Sabha of India. He represented the Panchmahal constituency of Gujarat and is a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) political party.\n\nChauhan was educated at Educated at \"Shri K.K. High School\", Vejalpur in Panchmahal. Highest qualification attained by him is HSSC (10th). He was an agriculturist, educationist & social worker before joining politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "30071346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30071346", "title": "Raymond Gniewek", "text": "Raymond Gniewek\n\nRaymond Gniewek (born November 13, 1931 in East Meadow, New York ) is an American violinist. He served as concertmaster of the Metropolitan Opera orchestra for 43 years; upon his appointment in 1957 he was the youngest person to ever hold the post. He has also had a career as a soloist. His final performance as concertmaster with the orchestra was a concert performance in Carnegie Hall of Béla Bartók's \"Bluebeard's Castle\" in 2000. Gniewek is a native of New York City, where he began his musical education; he continued at the Eastman School of Music, studying with Andre de Ribaupierre and Joseph Knitzer, becoming concertmaster of the Eastman Rochester Orchestra and associate concertmaster of Rochester Philharmonic under Erich Leinsdorf. Other teachers were the Canadian violinist Albert Pratz and Raphael Bronstein of New York City.\n\nGniewek is currently married to soprano Judith Blegen. He was formerly married to ballet dancer and Pilates instructor Lolita San Miguel. His sister is Cecilia Brauer who plays celesta and glass harmonica in the Met Orchestra.\n"}
{"id": "25428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25428", "title": "Roman Polanski", "text": "Roman Polanski\n\nRajmund Roman Thierry Polański (; born 18 August 1933) is a French-Polish film director, producer, writer, and actor. Since 1978, he has been a fugitive from the U.S. criminal justice system, having fled the country while awaiting sentencing in his sexual abuse case, where he pleaded guilty to statutory rape.\n\nPolanski was born in Paris, and his Polish-Jewish parents moved the family back to Poland in 1937, when he was four. Two years later Poland was invaded by Nazi Germany and the USSR starting World War II and the Polanski's found themselves trapped in the Kraków Ghetto. After his mother and father were taken in raids, Polanski spent his formative years in foster homes under an adopted identity, trying to survive the Holocaust.\nPolanski's first feature-length film, \"Knife in the Water\" (1962), was made in Poland and was nominated for a United States Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. He has since received five more Oscar nominations, along with two BAFTAs, four Césars, a Golden Globe Award and the Palme d'Or of the Cannes Film Festival in France. In the United Kingdom he directed three films, beginning with \"Repulsion\" (1965). In 1968 he moved to the United States and cemented his status by directing the horror film \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968).\n\nA turning point in his life took place in 1969, when his pregnant wife, Sharon Tate, and four friends were brutally murdered by members of the Manson Family. Following her death, Polanski returned to Europe and eventually continued directing. He made \"Macbeth\" (1971) in England and back in Hollywood, \"Chinatown\" (1974), which was nominated for eleven Academy Awards.\n\nIn 1977, Polanski was arrested and charged with drugging and raping a 13-year-old girl. He subsequently pled guilty to the lesser offence of unlawful sex with a minor. After spending 42 days undergoing psychiatric evaluation in prison in preparation for sentencing, Polanski, who had expected to be put on probation, learned that the judge planned to imprison him, so he fled to Paris.\n\nIn Europe, Polanski continued to make films, including \"Tess\" (1979), starring Nastassja Kinski. It won France's César Awards for Best Picture and Best Director, and received three Oscars. He later produced and directed \"The Pianist\" (2002), a drama a Jewish-Polish musician escaping Nazi persecution, starring Adrien Brody and Emilia Fox. The film won three Academy Awards including Best Director, along with numerous international awards. He also directed \"Oliver Twist\" (2005), a story which parallels his own life as a \"young boy attempting to triumph over adversity\". He was awarded Best Director for \"The Ghost Writer\" (2010) at the 23rd European Film Awards.\n\nIn 2018, in light of the #MeToo and Time's Up movements, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences voted to expel Polanski from its membership because of the statutory rape case and several other accusations of child sexual abuse made against him.\n\nPolanski was born in Paris; he was the son of Bula (née Katz-Przedborska) and Ryszard Polański, a painter and manufacturer of sculptures, who had changed his family name from Liebling. His mother had a daughter, Annette, by her previous husband. Annette managed to survive Auschwitz, where her mother died, and left Poland forever for France. Polański's father was Jewish and originally from Poland; Polański's mother, born in Russia, had been raised Roman Catholic and was of half Jewish ancestry. Polański's parents were both agnostics. Polański, influenced by his education in the People's Republic of Poland, said \"I'm an atheist\" in an interview about his film, \"Rosemary's Baby\".\n\nThe Polański family moved back to the Polish city of Kraków in 1936, and were living there when World War II began with the invasion of Poland. Kraków was soon occupied by the German forces, and the racist and anti-Semitic Nuremberg Laws made the Polańskis targets of persecution, forcing them into the Kraków Ghetto, along with thousands of the city's Jews. Around the age of six, he attended primary school for only a few weeks, until \"all the Jewish children were abruptly expelled,\" writes biographer Christopher Sandford. That initiative was soon followed by the requirement that all Jewish children over the age of twelve wear white armbands with a blue Star of David imprinted for visual identification. After he was expelled, he would not be allowed to enter another classroom for the next six years. Polanski then witnessed both the ghettoization of Kraków's Jews into a compact area of the city, and the subsequent deportation of all the ghetto's Jews to German death camps. He watched as his father was taken away. He remembers from age six, one of his first experiences of the terrors to follow:\n\nHis father was transferred, along with thousands of other Jews, to Mauthausen, a group of 49 German concentration camps in Austria. His mother was taken to Auschwitz, and was killed soon after arriving. The forced exodus took place immediately after the German liquidation of the Kraków ghetto, a true-life backdrop to Polanski's film \"The Pianist\" (2002). Polanski, who was then hiding from the Germans, remembered seeing his father being marched off with a long line of people. Polanski tried getting closer to his father to ask him what was happening, and managed to get within a few yards. His father saw him, but afraid his son might be spotted by the German soldiers, whispered (in Polish), \"Get lost!\"\n\nPolański escaped the Kraków Ghetto in 1943 and survived by assuming the name Romek Wilk, with the help of some Polish Roman Catholic families. One such good Samaritan was a Mrs. Sermak, who promised Polański's father that she would shelter him. Polański attended church, learned to recite Catholic prayers by heart, and behaved outwardly as a Roman Catholic, although he was never baptized. His efforts to blend into a Catholic household failed miserably at least once, when the parish priest visiting the family posed questions to him one-on-one about the catechism, and ultimately said, \"You aren't one of us\", he said. The punishment for helping a Jew in German-occupied Poland was death.\n\nAs he roamed the countryside trying to survive in a Poland now occupied by German troops, he witnessed many horrors, such as being \"forced to take part in a cruel and sadistic game in which German soldiers took shots at him for target practice.\" Author Ian Freer concludes that Polanski's constant childhood fears and dread of violence have contributed to the \"tangible atmospheres he conjures up on film.\"\n\nBy the time the war ended in 1945, a fifth of the Polish population had been killed, with the vast majority of the victims being civilians. Of those deaths, 3 million were Polish Jews, which accounted for 90% of the country's Jewish population. According to Sandford, Polanski would use the memory of his mother, her dress and makeup style, as a physical model for Faye Dunaway's character in his film \"Chinatown\" (1974).\n\nAfter the war, he was reunited with his father and moved back to Kraków. His father remarried 21 December 1946 to Wanda Zajączkowska (a woman Polanski had never liked) and died of cancer in 1984. Time repaired the family contacts; Polanski visited them in Kraków, and relatives visited him in Hollywood and Paris. Polanski recalls the villages and families he lived with as relatively primitive by European standards:\nHe stated that \"you must live in a Communist country to really understand how bad it can be. Then you will appreciate capitalism.\" He also remembered events at the war's end and his reintroduction to mainstream society when he was 12, forming friendships with other children, such as Roma Ligocka, Ryszard Horowitz and his family.\n\nPolanski's fascination with cinema began very early, when he was around age four or five. He recalls this period in an interview:\nAfter the war, he watched films, either at school or at a local cinema, using whatever pocket money he had. Polanski writes, \"Most of this went on the movies, but movie seats were dirt cheap, so a little went a long way. I lapped up every kind of film.\" As time went on, movies became more than an escape into entertainment, as he explains:\n\nPolanski attended the National Film School in Łódź, the third-largest city in Poland. In the 1950s, Polanski took up acting, appearing in Andrzej Wajda's \"Pokolenie\" (\"A Generation\", 1954) and in the same year in Silik Sternfeld's \"Zaczarowany rower\" (\"Enchanted Bicycle\" or \"Magical Bicycle\"). Polanski's directorial debut was also in 1955 with a short film \"Rower\" (\"Bicycle\"). \"Rower\" is a semi-autobiographical feature film, believed to be lost, which also starred Polanski. It refers to his real-life violent altercation with a notorious Kraków felon, Janusz Dziuba, who arranged to sell Polanski a bicycle, but instead beat him badly and stole his money. In real life, the offender was arrested while fleeing after fracturing Polanski's skull, and executed for three murders, out of eight prior such assaults which he had committed. Several other short films made during his study at Łódź gained him considerable recognition, particularly \"Two Men and a Wardrobe\" (1958) and \"When Angels Fall\" (1959). He graduated in 1959.\n\nPolanski's first feature-length film, \"Knife in the Water\", was also one of the first significant Polish films after the Second World War that did not have a war theme. Scripted by Jerzy Skolimowski, Jakub Goldberg, and Polanski, \"Knife in the Water\" is about a wealthy, unhappily married couple who decide to take a mysterious hitchhiker with them on a weekend boating excursion. \"Knife in the Water\" was a major commercial success in the West and gave Polanski an international reputation. The film also earned its director his first Academy Award nomination (Best Foreign Language Film) in 1963. Leon Niemczyk, who played Andrzej, was the only professional actor in the film. Jolanta Umecka, who played Krystyna, was discovered by Polanski at a swimming pool.\n\nPolanski left then-communist Poland and moved to France, where he had already made two notable short films in 1961: \"The Fat and the Lean\" and \"Mammals\". While in France, Polanski contributed one segment (\"La rivière de diamants\") to the French-produced omnibus film, \"Les plus belles escroqueries du monde\" (English title: \"The Beautiful Swindlers\") in 1964. (He has since had the segment removed from all releases of the film.) However, Polanski found that in the early 1960s, the French film industry was xenophobic and generally unwilling to support a rising filmmaker of foreign origin.\n\nPolanski made three feature films in England, based on original scripts written by himself and Gérard Brach, a frequent collaborator. \"Repulsion\" (1965) is a psychological horror film focusing on a young Belgian woman named Carol (Catherine Deneuve) who suffers from a physical and emotional dread of sexual intercourse. The film's themes, situations, visual motifs, and effects clearly reflect the influence of early surrealist cinema as well as horror movies of the 1950s—particularly Luis Buñuel's \"Un chien Andalou\", Jean Cocteau's \"The Blood of a Poet\", Henri-Georges Clouzot's \"Diabolique\" and Alfred Hitchcock's \"Psycho\".\n\n\"Cul-de-sac\" (1966) is a bleak nihilist tragicomedy filmed on location in Northumberland. The tone and premise of the film owe a great deal to Samuel Beckett's \"Waiting for Godot\", along with aspects of Harold Pinter's \"The Birthday Party\".\n\n\"The Fearless Vampire Killers\" (1967) (known by its original title, \"Dance of the Vampires\" in most countries outside the United States) is a parody of vampire films. The plot concerns a buffoonish professor and his clumsy assistant, Alfred (played by Polanski), who are traveling through Transylvania in search of vampires. \"The Fearless Vampire Killers\" was Polanski's first feature to be photographed in color with the use of Panavision lenses, and included a striking visual style with snow-covered, fairy-tale landscapes, similar to the work of Soviet fantasy filmmakers. In addition, the richly textured color schemes of the settings evoke the paintings of the Belarusian-Jewish artist Marc Chagall, who provides the namesake for the innkeeper in the film. The film was written for Jack MacGowran, who played the lead role of Professor Abronsius.\n\nPolanski met Sharon Tate while making the film; she played the role of the local innkeeper's daughter. They were married in London on 1968. Shortly after they married, Polanski, with Tate at his side during a documentary film, described the demands of young movie viewers who he said always wanted to see something \"new\" and \"different\".\n\nParamount studio head Robert Evans brought Polanski to America ostensibly to direct the film \"Downhill Racer\", but told Polanski that he really wanted to him to read the horror novel \"Rosemary's Baby\" by Ira Levin to see if a film could be made out of it. Polanski read it non-stop through the night and the following morning decided he wanted to write as well as direct it. He wrote the 272-page screenplay for the film in slightly longer than three weeks. The film, \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968), was a box-office success and became his first Hollywood production, thereby establishing his reputation as a major commercial filmmaker. The film, a horror-thriller set in trendy Manhattan, is about Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia Farrow), a young housewife who is impregnated by the devil. Polanski's screenplay adaptation earned him a second Academy Award nomination.\n\nOn 9 August 1969, while Polanski was working in London, his wife, Sharon Tate, and four other people were murdered at the Polanskis' residence in Los Angeles by cult leader Charles Manson's followers.\n\nPolanski adapted \"Macbeth\" into a screenplay with the Shakespeare expert Kenneth Tynan. Jon Finch and Francesca Annis played the main characters. Hugh Hefner and Playboy Productions funded the 1971 film, which opened in New York and was screened in Playboy Theater. Hefner was credited as executive producer, and the film was listed as a \"Playboy Production\". It was controversial because of Lady Macbeth's being nude in a scene, and received an X rating because of its graphic violence and nudity. In his autobiography, Polanski wrote that he wanted to be true to the violent nature of the work, and that he had been aware that his first project following Tate's murder would be subject to scrutiny and probable criticism regardless of the subject matter; if he had made a comedy he would have been perceived as callous.\n\nWritten by Polanski and previous collaborator Gérard Brach, \"What?\" (1973) is a mordant absurdist comedy loosely based on the themes of \"Alice in Wonderland\" and Henry James. The film is a rambling shaggy dog story about the sexual indignities that befall a winsome young American hippie woman hitchhiking through Europe.\n\nPolanski returned to Hollywood in 1973 to direct \"Chinatown\" (1974) for Paramount Pictures. The film is widely considered to be one of the finest American mystery crime movies, inspired by the real-life California Water Wars, a series of disputes over southern California water at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nIt was nominated for 11 Academy Awards, including those for actors Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway. Robert Towne won for Best Original Screenplay. It also had actor-director John Huston in a supporting role, and was the last film Polanski directed in the United States. In 1991, the film was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being \"culturally, historically or aesthetically significant\" and it is frequently listed as among the best in world cinema.\n\nPolanski returned to Paris for his next film, \"The Tenant\" (1976), which was based on a 1964 novel by Roland Topor, a French writer of Polish-Jewish origin. In addition to directing the film, Polanski also played a leading role of a timid Polish immigrant living in Paris. Together with \"Repulsion\" and \"Rosemary's Baby\", \"The Tenant\" can be seen as the third installment in a loose trilogy of films called the \"Apartment Trilogy\" that explore the themes of social alienation and psychic and emotional breakdown.\n\nIn 1978, Polanski became a fugitive from American justice and could no longer work in countries where he might face arrest or extradition.\n\nHe dedicated his next film, \"Tess\" (1979), to the memory of his late wife, Sharon Tate. It was Tate who first suggested he read \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\", which she thought would make a good film; he subsequently expected her to star in it. Nearly a decade after Tate's death, he met Nastassja Kinski, a model and aspiring young actress who had already been in a number of European films. He offered her the starring role, which she accepted. Her father was Klaus Kinski, a leading German actor, who had introduced her to films.\n\nBecause the role required having a local dialect, Polanski sent her to London for five months of study and to spend time in the Dorset countryside to get a flavor of the region. In the film, Kinski starred opposite Peter Firth and Leigh Lawson.\n\"Tess\" was shot in the north of France instead of Hardy's England and became the most expensive film made in France up to that time. Ultimately, it proved a financial success and was well received by both critics and the public. Polanski won France's César Awards for Best Picture and Best Director and received his fourth Academy Award nomination (and his second nomination for Best Director). The film received three Oscars: best cinematography, best art direction, best costume design, and was nominated for best picture.\n\nAt the time, there were rumors that Polanski and Kinski became romantically involved, but she says the rumors are untrue; they were never lovers or had an affair. She admits that \"there was a flirtation. There \"could\" have been a seduction, but there was not. He had respect for me.\" She also recalls his influence on her while filming: \"He was really a gentleman, not at all like the things I had heard. He introduced me to beautiful books, plays, movies. He educated me.\" On an emotional level, she said years later that \"he was one of the people in my life who cared, ... who took me seriously and gave me a lot of strength.\" She told David Letterman more about her experience working with Polanski during an interview.\n\nIn 1981, Polanski directed and co-starred (as Mozart) in a stage production of Peter Shaffer's play \"Amadeus\", first in Warsaw, then in Paris. The play was again directed by Polanski, in Milan, in 1999.\n\nNearly seven years passed before Polanski's next film, \"Pirates\", a lavish period piece starring Walter Matthau as Captain Red, which the director intended as an homage to the beloved Errol Flynn swashbucklers of his childhood. Captain Red's henchman, Jean Baptiste, was played by Cris Campion. The film is about a rebellion the two led on a ship called the \"Neptune\", in the seventeenth century. The screenplay was written by Polanski, Gérard Brach, and John Brownjohn. The film was shot on location in Tunisia, using a full-sized pirate vessel constructed for the production. It was a financial and critical failure, recovering a small fraction of its production budget and garnering a single Academy Award nomination.\n\n\"Frantic\" (1988) was a Hitchcockian suspense-thriller starring Harrison Ford and the actress/model Emmanuelle Seigner, who later became Polanski's wife. The film follows an ordinary tourist in Paris whose wife is kidnapped. He attempts, hopelessly, to go through the Byzantine bureaucratic channels to deal with her disappearance, but finally takes matters into his own hands.\n\nPolanski followed this with the dark psycho-sexual film \"Bitter Moon\" (1992), followed by a film of the acclaimed play \"Death and the Maiden\" (1994) starring Sigourney Weaver.\n\nIn 1997, Polanski directed a stage version of his 1967 film \"The Fearless Vampire Killers\", which debuted in Vienna followed by successful runs in Stuttgart, Hamburg, Berlin, and Budapest. On 1998, Polanski was elected a member of the Académie des Beaux-Arts.\n\n\"The Ninth Gate\" is a thriller based on the novel \"El Club Dumas\" by Arturo Perez-Reverte and starring Johnny Depp. The movie's plot is based on the idea that an ancient text called \"The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows\", authored by Aristide Torchia along with Lucifer, is the key to raising Satan.\n\nIn 2001, Polanski filmed \"The Pianist\", an adaptation of the World War II autobiography of the same name by Polish-Jewish musician Władysław Szpilman. Szpilman's experiences as a persecuted Jew in Poland during World War II were reminiscent of those of Polanski and his family. While Szpilman and Polanski escaped the concentration camps, their families did not, eventually perishing.\n\nWhen Warsaw, Poland, was chosen for the 2002 premiere of \"The Pianist\", \"the country exploded with pride.\" According to reports, numerous former communists came to the screening and \"agreed that it was a fantastic film.\"\n\nIn May 2002, the film won the \"Palme d'Or\" (Golden Palm) award at the Cannes Film Festival, as well as Césars for Best Film and Best Director, and later the 2002 Academy Award for Best Director. Because Polanski would have been arrested in the United States, he did not attend the Academy Awards ceremony in Hollywood. After the announcement of the Best Director Award, Polanski received a standing ovation from most of those present in the theater. Actor Harrison Ford accepted the award for Polanski, and then presented the Oscar to him at the Deauville Film Festival five months later in a public ceremony. Polanski later received the Crystal Globe award for outstanding artistic contribution to world cinema at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival in 2004.\n\n\"Oliver Twist\" is an adaptation of Charles Dickens' novel, written by \"The Pianist\"s Ronald Harwood and shot in Prague. Polanski said in interviews that he made the film as something he could show his children, and that the life of the young scavenger mirrored his own life, fending for himself in World War II Poland.\n\n\"The Ghost Writer\", a thriller focusing on a ghostwriter working on the memoirs of a character based loosely on former British prime minister Tony Blair, swept the European Film Awards in 2010, winning six awards, including best movie, director, actor and screenplay. When it premiered at the 60th Berlinale in February 2010, Polanski won a Silver Bear for Best Director, and in February 2011, it won four César Awards, France's version of the Academy Awards.\n\nThe film is based on a novel by British writer Robert Harris. Harris and Polanski had previously worked for many months on a film of Harris's earlier novel \"Pompeii\", a novel that was actually inspired by Polanski's \"Chinatown\". They had completed a script for \"Pompeii\" and were nearing production when the film was cancelled due to a looming actors' strike in September 2007. After that film fell apart, they moved on to Harris's novel, The Ghost, and adapted it for the screen together.\n\nThe cast includes Ewan McGregor as the writer and Pierce Brosnan as former British Prime Minister Adam Lang. The film was shot on locations in Germany.\n\nIn the United States, film critic Roger Ebert included it in his top 10 pick for 2010, and states that \"this movie is the work of a man who knows how to direct a thriller. Smooth, calm, confident, it builds suspense instead of depending on shock and action.\" Co-star Ewan McGregor agrees, saying about Polanski that \"he's a legend... I've never examined a director and the way that they work, so much before. He's brilliant, just brilliant, and absolutely warrants his reputation as a great director.\"\nPolanski shot \"Carnage\" in February/March 2011. The film is a screen version of Yasmina Reza's play \"God of Carnage\", a comedy about two couples who meet after their children get in a fight at school, and how their initially civilized conversation devolves into chaos. It stars Kate Winslet, Jodie Foster, Christoph Waltz and John C. Reilly. Though set in New York, it was shot in Paris. The film had its world premiere on 9 September 2011 at the Venice Film Festival and was released in the United States by Sony Pictures Classics on 16 December 2011.\n\nCo-stars Jodie Foster and Kate Winslet commented about Polanski's directing style. According to Foster, \"He has a very, very definitive style about how he likes it done. He decides everything. He decided every lens. Every prop. Everything. It's all him.\" Winslet adds that \"Roman is one of the most extraordinary men I've ever met. The guy is 77 years old. He has an effervescent quality to him. He's very joyful about his work, which is infectious. He likes to have a small crew, to the point that, when I walked on the set, my thought was, 'My God, this is it?'\" Also noting that style of directing, New York Film Festival director Richard Pena, during the American premiere of the film, called Polanski \"a poet of small spaces... in just a couple of rooms he can conjure up an entire world, an entire society.\"\n\nPolanski makes an uncredited cameo appearance as a neighbor.\n\nPolanski's French-language adaptation of the award-winning play \"Venus in Fur\", stars his wife Emmanuelle Seigner and Mathieu Amalric. Polanski worked with the play's author, David Ives, on the screenplay. The film was shot from December 2012 to February 2013 in French and is Polanski's first non-English language feature film in forty years. The film premiered in competition at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival on 25 May 2013.\n\nPolanski's \"Based on a True Story\" is an adaptation of the French novel by bestselling author Delphine de Vignan. The film follows a writer (Emmanuelle Seigner) struggling to complete a new novel, while followed by an obsessed fan (Eva Green). It started production in November 2016 from a script adapted by Polanski and Olivier Assayas. It premiered out of competition at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival on 27 May 2017 and opened in France on 1 November 2017.\n\nPolanski will next direct \"J'accuse\", a film about the notorious Dreyfus affair in the 19th century, starring Jean Dujardin as French officer Georges Picquart. The film tells the true story of Picquart's struggle from 1896-1906 to expose the truth about the doctored evidence that got Alfred Dreyfus, one of the few Jewish members of the French Army's general staff, wrongly convicted of passing military secrets to the German Empire and sent to Devil's Island. The film is written by Robert Harris, who is working with Polanski for the third time. It is set to go into production in the fall of 2018, co-starring Louis Garrel as Dreyfus, Mathieu Amalric, Olivier Gourmet and Polanski's wife Emmanuelle Seigner. It will be produced by Alain Goldman's Legende Films and distributed by Gaumont.\n\nAlthough set in Paris, the film was first scheduled to shoot in Warsaw in 2014, for economic reasons. However, production was postponed after Polanski moved to Poland for filming and the U.S. Government filed extradition papers. The Polish government eventually rejected them, by which time new French film tax credits had been introduced, allowing the film to shoot on location in Paris. It was budgeted at 60 million euros and was again set to start production in July 2016, however its production was postponed as Polanski waited on the availability of a star, whose name was not announced. In a 2017 interview Polanski discussed the difficulty of the project:\nPolanski's first wife, Barbara Lass (née Kwiatkowska), was a Polish actress who also starred in Polanski's 1959 \"When Angels Fall\". The couple were married in 1959 and divorced in 1961.\n\nPolanski met rising actress Sharon Tate while filming \"The Fearless Vampire Killers\", and during the production, the two of them began dating. On 1968, Polanski married Tate in London.\n\nIn August 1969, while Polanski was in Europe working on a film, Tate was murdered along with four of their friends at their home in Los Angeles by members of Charles Manson's 'family,' a group of young, mostly female followers. Tate was pregnant at the time of her murder.\n\nManson, along with members of his 'family', was arrested in late 1969, and eventually tried and found guilty in 1971 of 27 counts, including first-degree murder, an event now called the Manson murders. Because at the time it was one of the most \"horrific crimes in modern history,\" the crime and trial of Manson and his followers became a media sensation, leading to movies, documentaries and bestselling books.\n\nPolanski has said that his absence on the night of the murders is the greatest regret of his life. In his autobiography, he wrote, \"Sharon's death is the only watershed in my life that really matters\", and commented that her murder changed his personality from a \"boundless, untroubled sea of expectations and optimism\" to one of \"ingrained pessimism ... eternal dissatisfaction with life\". In his autobiography, Polanski described his brief time with Tate as the best years of his life.\n\nPolanski was also left with a very negative impression of the press, which he felt was interested in sensationalizing the lives of the victims, and indirectly himself, to attract readers. He was shocked by the lack of sympathy expressed in various news stories:\n\nAmong the media-generated sensationalism were rumors that claimed Tate and her visitors were taking drugs, despite the coroner's announcing that no traces of drugs or nicotine were found after Tate's autopsy. For years afterward, notes Sandford, \"reporters openly speculated about the Polanskis' home life\" and their personalities in order to create more media gossip about the private lives of Hollywood celebrities.\n\nIn 1989, Polanski married French actress Emmanuelle Seigner, who is 33 years younger than he. They have two children, daughter Morgane and son Elvis. Polanski and his children speak Polish at home.\n\nOn 11 March 1977, three years after making \"Chinatown,\" Polanski was arrested at Jack Nicholson's home for the sexual assault of 13-year-old Samantha Gailey, who was modeling for Polanski during a \"Vogue\" magazine photo shoot around the pool. Polanski was indicted on six counts of criminal behavior, including rape. At his arraignment, he pleaded not guilty to all charges. Many executives in Hollywood came to his defense. Gailey's attorney next arranged a plea bargain in which five of the six charges would be dismissed, and Polanski accepted.\n\nAt the time of the incident, Nicholson was out of town making a film, but his steady girlfriend, actress Anjelica Huston, had dropped by unannounced to pick up some items. She heard Polanski in the other room say \"We'll be right out.\" Polanski then came out with Gailey and he introduced her to Huston, and they chatted about Nicholson's two large dogs which were sitting nearby. Huston recalled Gailey was wearing platform heels and appeared quite tall.\n\nAfter a brief conversation, Polanski had packed up his camera gear and Huston saw them drive off in his car. Huston told police the next day, after Polanski was arrested, that she \"had witnessed nothing untoward\" and never saw them together in the other room. Gailey learned afterwards that Huston had recently broken up with Nicholson, but stopped by to pick up some belongings.\nAs a result of the plea bargain, Polanski pleaded guilty to the charge of \"unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor,\" and was ordered to undergo 90 days of psychiatric evaluation at California Institution for Men at Chino. Upon release from prison after 42 days, Polanski agreed to the plea bargain, his penalty to be time served along with probation. However, he learned afterward that the judge, Laurence J. Rittenband, had told some friends that he was going to disregard the plea bargain and sentence Polanski to 50 years in prison: \"I'll see this man never gets out of jail,\" he told Polanski's friend, screenwriter Howard E. Koch. Gailey's attorney confirmed the judge changed his mind after he personally met with the judge in his chambers:\nPolanski was told by his attorney that \"the judge could no longer be trusted...\" and that the judge's representations were \"worthless\". Polanski decided not to appear at his sentencing. He told his friend, director Dino De Laurentis, \"I've made up my mind. I'm getting out of here.\" On the day before sentencing in 1978, Polanski left the country on a flight to London, where he had a home. One day later, he left for France. As a French citizen, he has been protected from extradition and has lived mostly in France since then. However, since he fled the United States before final sentencing, the charges are still pending.\n\nIn 1988, Gailey sued Polanski. Among other things, the suit alleged sexual assault, false imprisonment, seduction of a minor, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. In 1993, Polanski agreed to settle with his victim. In August 1996, Polanski still owed her $604,416; court filings confirm that the settlement was completed by 1997 via a confidential financial arrangement. The victim, now married and going by the name Samantha Geimer, stated in a 2003 interview with Larry King that the police and media had been slow at the time of the assault to believe her account, which she attributed to the social climate of the era. In 2008, she stated, \"I don't wish for him to be held to further punishment or consequences.\" \n\nOn 26 September 2009, Polanski was arrested while in Switzerland at the request of United States authorities. The arrest brought renewed attention to the case and stirred controversy, particularly in the United States and Europe. Polanski was defended by many prominent individuals, including Hollywood celebrities and European artists and politicians, who called for his release. American public opinion was reported to run against him, however, and polls in France and Poland showed that strong majorities favored his extradition to the United States.\n\nPolanski was jailed near Zürich for two months, then put under house arrest at his home in Gstaad while awaiting decision of appeals fighting extradition. On 12 July 2010, the Swiss rejected the United States' request, declared Polanski a \"free man\" and released him from custody. He remains the subject of an Interpol red notice issued in 2005 at the request of the United States.\n\nDuring a television interview on 10 March 2011, Geimer blamed the media, reporters, the court, and the judge for having caused \"way more damage to me and my family than anything Roman Polanski has ever done\", and opined that the judge was using her and Polanski for the media exposure.\n\nIn January 2014, newly uncovered emails from 2008 by a Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge, Larry P. Fidler, indicated that if Polanski returned to the United States for a hearing, the conduct of the judge who had originally presided over the case, Laurence A. Rittenband, might require that Polanski be freed. These emails were related to a 2008 documentary film by Marina Zenovich. In late October 2014, Polanski was questioned by prosecutors in Kraków.\n\nOn 30 October 2015, Polish judge Dariusz Mazur denied a request by the United States to extradite Polanski (a dual French-Polish citizen) for a full trial, claiming that it would be \"obviously unlawful.\" The Kraków prosecutor's office declined to challenge the court's ruling, agreeing that Polanski had served his punishment and did not need to face a U.S. court again. However, Poland's national justice ministry took up the appeal, arguing that sexual abuse of minors should be prosecuted regardless of the suspect's accomplishments or the length of time since the suspected crime took place. In a December 2016 decision, the Supreme Court of Poland dismissed the government's appeal, holding that the prosecutor general had failed to prove misconduct or flagrant legal error on the part of the lower court.\n\nPreparations for a movie he was working on about the Dreyfus affair had been stalled by the extradition request.\n\nOn 3 May 2018 Roman Polanski was removed from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, with the decision referencing the case.\n\nIn 2008, the documentary film by Marina Zenovich, \"\", was released in Europe and the United States where it won numerous awards. The film focuses on the judge in the case and the possible reasons why he changed his mind. It includes interviews with people involved in the case, including the victim, Geimer, and the prosecutor, Roger Gunson. Geimer said that the judge \"didn't care what happened\" to her or Polanski, but \"was orchestrating some little show,\" while Gunson added, \"I'm not surprised that Polanski left under those circumstances, ... it was going to be a real circus.\"\n\nFormer Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney David Wells, whose statements were the most damning against Polanski, and who said he advised the judge to imprison Polanski, admitted that he lied about those statements, and said that to the press to \"play up\" his own role.\n\nIn December 2009, a California appellate court discussed the film's allegations as it denied Polanski's request to have the case dismissed. While saying it was \"deeply concerned\" by the allegations, and that the allegations were \"in many cases supported by considerable evidence,\" it also found that \"(e)ven in light of our fundamental concern about the misconduct ... flight was not Polanski's only option. It was not even his best option.\" It said dismissal of the case, which would erase Polanski's guilty plea, would not be an \"appropriate result,\" and that he still had other legal options.\n\nIn September 2011, the documentary film \"\" had its world premiere in Zürich, Switzerland. During an interview in the film, he offers his apology to Geimer: \"She is a double victim: My victim, and a victim of the press.\" On this occasion, he collected the lifetime achievement award he was to have received at the time of his arrest two years earlier.\n\nIn 2004, Polanski sued \"Vanity Fair\" magazine in London for libel. A 2002 article in the magazine claimed that Polanski promised he would \"make another Sharon Tate out of you\" in an attempt to seduce a Scandinavian model while he was travelling to Tate's funeral. He received supporting testimony from Mia Farrow, and \"Vanity Fair\" \"was unable to prove that the incident occurred.\" Polanski was awarded £50,000 in damages plus some of his legal costs.\n\nIn December 2017, Polanski filed a NIS 1.5 million suit in Herzliya Magistrates' Court against Israeli journalist and filmmaker Matan Uziel. Polanski maintained that Uziel, through his website, www.imetpolanski.com, falsely reported that five women had come forward to accuse him of raping them. Polanski was suing for libel and defamation of character. Herzliya Magistrates' Court rejected Polanski's request to be exempt from appearing in court after filing the libel suit. While Polanski gave various reasons for his inability to appear, the presiding judge, Gilad Hess, dismissed these one by one and ordered Polanski to pay Uziel NIS 10,000 in costs. In November 2018, it was published that Polanski decided to drop the lawsuit, and was ordered by the court to pay Uziel NIS 30,000 (USD 8,000) for court costs. The court accepted Uziel's request that the suit not be dropped, but rather that it be rejected, making Polanski unable to sue Uziel again over the same issue in the future. \n\nIn 2010, British actress Charlotte Lewis said that Polanski had \"forced himself\" on her while she was auditioning for a role in Paris in 1983, when she was 16. In 1999, however, Lewis gave a very different account of events in an interview with the UK's \"News of the World\", which was unearthed by the French daily \"Libération\". In that interview, Lewis asserted that she actually had a six-month tryst with Polanski when she was 17: \"I knew that Roman had done something bad in the United States, but I wanted to be his mistress,\" Lewis said, according to \"Liberation\". \"I wanted him probably more than he wanted me.\" In addition, Lewis never mentioned any sexual abuse, and she said that their relationship ended when Polanski introduced her to Warren Beatty, and she claimed that they soon began an affair. Furthermore, she was cast in Polanski's 1986 film \"Pirates\", appeared at the Cannes film festival on his arm years after the alleged incident, and in an interview the year of the film's release, Lewis stated, \"I'd love to have had a romantic relationship with [Polanski], and a physical one. You can't help falling in love with him. But he didn't want me that way.\"<ref name=\"Pape_5/17/2010\"></ref>\n\nIn October 2017, a woman named Renate Langer interviewed by Swiss police said Polanski raped her in Gstaad when she was 15, in 1972. That same month, Marianne Barnard accused Polanski of having assaulted her in 1975, when she was 10 years old.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>These movies are part of his \"Apartment Trilogy\".\n\n\n\nNew York Film Critics Circle Awards\n\nVenice Film Festival\n\n"}
{"id": "36044476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36044476", "title": "Seth Morris", "text": "Seth Morris\n\nSeth Morris (born May 21, 1970) is an American actor, comedian, and writer known for his recurring roles on programs such as \"Go On\", \"Happy Endings\", \"The Hotwives of Orlando\", \"Kroll Show\", and \"Childrens Hospital\".\n\nMorris is originally from Marin County, California - the younger of two boys - and attended Novato High School. After graduating, not knowing what he wanted to do, he went back and forth between traveling and community college. This included a stint at UC Santa Cruz and a six-month bicycling trip across the country, from San Francisco to Florida.\n\nMorris has worked numerous odd jobs including working with developmentally disabled people at group homes, teaching kids and a health food / yoga store in NYC.\n\nMorris started a career in comedy after moving to New York City in 1983, performing at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre (UCB) as an improviser and sketch comedian.\n\nHe later moved to LA and became the first Artistic Director of the theater's Los Angeles division for many years and was a member of the four-man sketch group \"The Naked Babies\" with comedians Rob Corddry, Brian Huskey, and John Ross Bowie. After stepping down from that position, he started out as the first staff writer hired by Funny or Die.\n\nHe currently writes and appears with a recurring role on Corddry's Adult Swim series \"Childrens Hospital\". Morris also recurred as Scotty on the ABC comedy series \"Happy Endings\" and as Danny on the NBC comedy series \"Go On\". Other programs Morris appeared in regularly included \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", the HBO sketch series \"Funny or Die Presents\", and the MTV prank show \"Damage Control\".\n\nMorris has also made numerous guest appearances on comedy programs such as \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"Parks and Recreation\", \"The League\", \"Reno 911!\", \"Crossballs\", \"It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia\", \"Maron\", \"How I Met Your Mother\", \"Broad City\", \"Big Lake\", \"Human Giant\", and \"Nick Swardson's Pretend Time\". He has appeared in films such as \"The Dictator\", \"Step Brothers\", \"\", and \"I Love You, Man\". In 2012, Morris starred in the comedic web series \"First Dates with Toby Harris\", produced by Yahoo! and Funny or Die.\n\nMorris is a frequent writer and director for the humor website Funny Or Die. He is also known for his regular appearances on the \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" podcast and television series, most often playing Bob Ducca, the hypochondriac ex-stepfather of host Scott Aukerman. Morris also hosted his own podcast on the Earwolf podcasting network, \"Affirmation Nation with Bob Ducca\", which debuted in 2011, ran for 144 episodes, and stopped airing on February 29, 2012. As of October 1, 2014, \"Affirmation Nation\" released its first of a new run of episodes. However, on May 6, 2015 he published the last episode of \"Affirmation Nation\". He wrote for the Comedy Central sketch series \"Kroll Show\". Morris has also costarred in the Hulu series \"The Hotwives of Orlando.\"\n"}
{"id": "38880509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880509", "title": "Soho Pam", "text": "Soho Pam\n\nPamela Jennings (1964–2012), known as Soho Pam, was a homeless English woman who became well known in Soho, London where she begged. She was much loved for her affectionate, polite manner and was the subject of artists and authors.\n\nShe was born in Carshalton, Surrey, on 19 April 1964. Her siblings Michael and Susan, said that she was enthusiastic but accident-prone. She worked as a carer, shopgirl and played the bell lyre. She had mental health problems and, when her mother died in 1998, she became homeless and estranged from her remaining family.\n\nAs a homeless person, she needed £7 every day to pay for a bed in the hostel in Pimlico which she used. To finance this and her habits of gambling and smoking, she regularly begged in the nearby district of Soho where she became familiar to the bohemian community in drinking establishments such as the French House.\n\nShe was generally welcomed for her cheerful and affectionate nature, thanking benefactors with hugs and soft salutations such as \"cuddle cuddle\" and \"love you\". One exception was at the famous Coach and Horses where the landlord, Norman Balon, would chase her away. When he retired in 2006, she said, \"I’ll miss looking in the window to check whether he's in or not\". The new landlord, Alistair Choat, was more friendly, allowing her two visits per day and inviting her to his wedding. He said that her manner was especially polite and engaging, \"It was her very gentle approach, she would never demand anything and she would just ask sweetly. She had this rocking motion, where she would rock on her feet and then chat, and she would always be counting the money she had in her hand, over and over and over. Most importantly, she was quite petite, she was quite childlike, but she was always very polite, so she just ingratiated people.\"\n\nArtists and authors such as Clayton Littlewood featured her in their work and she sold postcard portraits of herself painted by Rupert Shrive in 2005. She was addicted to tobacco and would scavenge cigarette butts for it. She gambled away her spare cash on fruit machines and by betting on dog racing but, when she had winnings, she was generous to her friends in the area. One friend who became close and looked after her was Sally Thomas. She would help Pam shop for clothes and reported that Pam became very nervous when leaving the familiar territory of Soho.\n\nShe gave up drinking around 2000 but later seemed to suffer from liver failure, giving her a jaundiced yellow skin which attracted attention that she enjoyed. The singer Suggs said that she'd been seen applying yellow make-up and so this may have been a ruse. He has written a song about her called \"Pam the Hawk\" and said, \"She was an incredible character with a remarkable talent for getting money out of you. They say certain film stars have 'it', well if there is an 'it' for street people, she had it.\"\n\nShe was diagnosed with cancer by an ambulance medic outside the Bar Italia. She moved into sheltered housing in Maida Vale and had radiotherapy but died on 18 December 2012. Her funeral was at East Finchley Cemetery and then a wake was held back in Soho at the Coach and Horses. It was full to overflowing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40952906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40952906", "title": "Theodor Szehinskyj", "text": "Theodor Szehinskyj\n\nTheodor Szehinskyj (February 14, 1924 – 2014) was an alleged World War II war criminal. He was born in Mallnow, Poland. He was a member of an SS Totenkopf Battalion and is accused of having been a guard in three concentration camps in Germany, Poland and Ukraine. Szehinskyj emigrated to the United States after the war, but was named as a war criminal by the United States Department of Justice in 2000, subsequently had his citizenship revoked, and is facing attempts to deport him from the country. He is on the Simon Wiesenthal Center's list of most wanted Nazi war criminals.\n\nThe Szehinskyj family were Ukrainians resident in Poland. Fluent in both Polish and Ukrainian, he grew up on his parents' farm in Mallnow and worked there after completing seven grades of school. After the Soviets occupied Mallnow during World War II and collectivized agriculture, he left his farm and moved to Lvov, where he was captured by the Germans in early 1942. He was transported to Vienna and worked intermittently on a farm in Austria. From 1943 to early 1945 he allegedly served in the Waffen-SS belonging SS Totenkopf Division in the concentration camps of Gross-Rosen, Sachsenhausen and Warsaw. He was allegedly involved in the transport of prisoners from the Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Mauthausen concentration camp shortly before the war ended in 1945. In 1950 Szehinskyj emigrated with his wife and daughter to the United States and worked as a machinist for General Electric. His US citizenship was revoked in 2000. He was ordered deported in 2003, but remained in the United States until his death in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "22284360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22284360", "title": "Vane Ivanović", "text": "Vane Ivanović\n\nIvan \"Vane\" Stefan Ivanović (9 June 1913 – 4 April 1999) was a Yugoslav-British athlete, shipowner, political activist, diplomat, writer and philanthropist. One of the founders of the European Movement and the consul general of Monaco in London, he devoted most of his life to the idea of Yugoslav unity.\n\nVane (pronounced \"Vahnay\") Ivanović (pronounced \"Ivanovich\") was born in 1913 in Osijek, Austria-Hungary to a Jewish Croat father and a Serb mother. His father, Ivan Rikard Ivanović, was originally born with the surname Kraus but like so many Jewish families feeling persecuted by the Austro-Hungarian Empire, they changed their name and converted to Catholicism. Ivan Rikard subsequently became a representative in Croatia's Sabor (Assembly). His mother, Milica (b. 26 February 1888) was a sister of Dušan Popović, a leading Serb politician in the ruling Croat-Serb Coalition. Svetozar Pribićević, the other leading Serb in the Coalition, was the best man at Rikard and Milica's wedding in July 1912, while Ivan Lorković, member of Ivan Rikard Ivanović's party and the leading Croat in the Coalition, was Ivanović's godfather. Ivanović had a younger brother, Vladimir, born 1917, and a younger sister, Daška Ivanović (pronounced \"Dashka\"), born in 1915.\n\nWhereas his family background clearly contributed to the development of Ivanović's strong Yugoslav identity, his life in Britain and the education he received there at Westminster School and at Peterhouse, Cambridge (where he read Economics) made him a staunch Anglophile. A rather dandyish figure who often supported an impressive cigar, Ivanović appeared to Serbs and Croats an English gentleman who spoke a slightly archaic Croat; to the British he was considered a no less exotic 'Eastern gentleman'. Despite spending much time in Britain, Ivanović never sought to be naturalised, although he did not hold a Yugoslav passport either. He was also the proud owner of two Dalmatian dogs. In 1930, Ivanović, later a member of the British Dalmatian Club, took a pair to Dalmatia -- where the breed originated from -- as a present for his stepfather.\n\nA well-known athlete, Ivanović was a member of the Yugoslav team at the 1936 Summer Olympics held in Berlin, running the 110-metre and 400-metre hurdles. He was the undisputed Yugoslav champion in both disciplines throughout the 1930s. At the event, he was among the number of athletes who refused to give Hitler the Nazi salute. In 110m he reached the semi-finals in Berlin and in 400m hurdles he held the Yugoslav record for 17 years, from 1936 until 1953.\n\nIvanović maintained his love of sport throughout his life. His only concession to age (in his 80s) was to cut back his runs around Hyde Park to alternate days. He was also an avid scuba diver. One of the pioneers of the sport, he contributed greatly to its development in Europe and the Bahamas. He wrote a number of books on spearfishing, of which one in particular, \"Modern Spearfishing\" (1974), remains a classic among diving enthusiasts.\n\nAfter his parents' divorce in the early 1920s, Ivanović's mother remarried Božidar \"Božo\" Banac (pronounced \"Borgia Banatz\") in London on 9 November 1921. Banac lived in London where he ran a shipping business, Jugoslovenski Lloyd, Ltd., (Yugoslav Lloyd), then Yugoslavia's largest shipping company which operated vessels in the Atlantic, Adriatic and Mediterranean waters. Ivanović and his siblings then moved in with their new stepfather. Banac, a native of Dubrovnik and a believer in Yugoslav unity, had helped the creation and activities of the Yugoslav Committee, a group of Habsburg Croat, Slovene and Serb politicians and intellectuals also based in London. In 1937 he was made director of his stepfather's company.\n\nIn 1914, Banac had placed his ships at the disposal of the British war effort. The family did the same at the outbreak of World War II, when Ivanović, acting on behalf of his then ailing stepfather, placed 10 out of the 22 steamers owned by Yugoslav Lloyd in the service of the Ministry of War Transport. Thus, Banac and Ivanović were the first shipowners from a neutral country to join the Allies.\n\nAfter the invasion of Yugoslavia by Germany, Italy, and their external and internal allies in April 1941, Ivanović organized other Yugoslav shipowners into the \"Yugoslav Shipping Committee\". Their aim was to prevent the capture of the Yugoslav mercantile fleet, still in neutral waters, by the Nazis.\n\nIn the summer of 1943, Ivanović joined the Yugoslav section of the Political Warfare Executive (PWE) the propaganda arm of Britain's Special Operations Executive. Even though most of the fleet of Yugoslav Lloyd had either been sunk or captured by this point, there were still enough independently owned Yugoslavian ships participating in the Allied effort under flags of convenience.\n\nIn his memoirs, Ivanović explained why he did not return to his occupied country to join Josip Broz Tito's or Draža Mihailović's resistance movements: \"I had no desire to forget the enemy and engage in a fratricidal war among my fellow countrymen, especially as I did not wholly agree with either side.\" He spent the rest of the war between London, Bari and Cairo and was eventually demobilized as a Major in the British army. Because of the Communist seizure of power in Yugoslavia, he remained in Britain as a political refugee. In April 1945, Bozidar \"Bozo\" Banac, Ivanović's stepfather died.\n\nAfter the war, and despite the fact that most of his pre-war fleet had been either destroyed or nationalized by the new Yugoslav authorities, Ivanović resumed a successful career in shipping.\n\nIn February 1949 Ivanović's biological father died in Genoa-Quinto, Italy. That same year his sister was remarried to Lt. Col. Neil McLean, DSO, who had also been a member of Special Operations Executive during the war. That same year Ivanović founded the \"Benevolent Association of Free Citizens of Yugoslavia\", a charity financed mainly by himself. Through this organization and as a private individual he helped innumerable refugees, students, artists and political dissidents escape Tito's dictatorship.\n\nDuring the Cold War years, along with other like-minded Yugoslavs, Ivanović organized many discussions about the fate of his homeland, which led to the two-volume collection \"A Democratic Alternative\", published in 1963, which warned that the establishment of independent states in the Balkans would spawn 'fatal conflicts'. Ivanović would continue to help his fellow countrymen right up until his death, sponsoring a number of postgraduate students who fled the 1990s conflict in Yugoslavia, and was also one of the founders of Jean Monnet's European Movement, heading the Yugoslav Committee for more than three decades.\n\nIn 1967, Ivanović was appointed by Prince Rainier III to the post of consul general of Monaco in London. His mother, Milica, subsequently moved there permanently and died in Monaco three years later. In 1977, he published his auto-biography entitled: \"LX, Memoirs of a Yugoslav\".\n\nIn 1982, the final memorandum of the \"Democratic Alternative\" argued that Yugoslavia could only survive as a democratic community of sovereign nations, and that any other scenario would almost inevitably lead to a civil war. Ivanović lived long enough to witness the awful fulfillment of this prophecy with the outbreak of the Yugoslav wars. In 1990 Ivanović became a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. He died in London on 4 April 1999. His father liked to point out that Ivanović was the first Yugoslav in the family. Born on the eve of unification, he died as its last remnants collapsed.\n\nIn 1939 Ivanović married June Fisher with whom he had two sons, Ivan Božidar (\"Božo\") and Andrija; and one daughter, Minja. His son Božo succeeded him as director of Ivanovic & Co. and as Consul of Monaco upon his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53474624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53474624", "title": "Yarrow Mamout", "text": "Yarrow Mamout\n\nYarrow Mamout (c. 1736 – January 19, 1823) was a former slave, entrepreneur, and property owner in Georgetown, Washington, DC. Mamout has been described as a brickmaker, a jack of all trades, a charcoal maker, a ship loader, and a basket weaver.\n\nMamout was enslaved and taken to Annapolis from Guinea in 1752. He was originally from West Africa of the Fulani people and spoke the Fula language and rudimentary English. Because he could read and write in Arabic and could also write his name in English, historians believe he came from a wealthy Muslim family.\n\nSamuel Beall and his son kept him in slavery. Beall owned a plantation in Takoma Park.\n\nAfter 44 years of being slave, Mamout gained freedom at the age of 60.\n\nHe made enough money to purchase 3324 Dent Place NW in the early 1800s and was a financier who lent funds to merchants. He also owned stock in the Columbia Bank of Georgetown.\n\nThere are two known portraits of Mamout, painted by James Alexander Simpson and Charles Willson Peale.\n"}
