{"id": "38316545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38316545", "title": "1938 in philosophy", "text": "1938 in philosophy\n\n1938 in philosophy\n\nSeptember 2 – B. F. Skinner's ground-breaking book The Behavior of Organisms was first published. Of the 800 copies in the first printing, only 548 had been sold by 1946.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1126818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126818", "title": "1995 Brixton riot", "text": "1995 Brixton riot\n\nThe Brixton riots of 1995 began on 13 December after the death of a black 26-year-old, Wayne Douglas, in police custody. Douglas had allegedly robbed a couple in bed at knifepoint hours earlier. Trouble broke out after what had been a peaceful protest outside the Brixton Police Station where the death occurred. With several hundred people involved, the riot resulted in damage to property and vehicles in the area. Police sealed off a three-kilometre (2 mile) area around Brixton in south London.\n\nThe riot lasted for five hours. 22 people were arrested and charged with public order offences, theft and criminal damage. Three police officers were hurt.\n\nThe then-Deputy Prime Minister, Michael Heseltine, condemned the riots and said \"efforts to improve Brixton would continue\".\n\nWayne Douglas was in police custody to be questioned about a burglary. Police reported that he collapsed in Brixton Police Station. The police statement said that Douglas died after collapsing while being questioned. Although the post-mortem on Douglas revealed that he had died of heart failure, the inquest into his death showed that he had been held face-down with his hands cuffed behind his back on four different occasions. The post-mortem also revealed that Douglas had suffered from heart disease.\n\nThe picketing of Brixton Police Station over the death of Douglas reportedly developed into a march down Brixton Road (Brixton High Street). Violence was triggered by a standoff between the police and about 100 demonstrators. Witnesses have reported hearing groups of black youths shouting \"Killers, killers\" at the police. Some eyewitness accounts describe the police presence at the demonstration as \"incredibly heavy-handed\".\n\nThe BBC reported that \"hundreds\" of black and white youths participated in the riot. Rioters attacked police, ransacked shops and burned cars. According to the police \"Officers were wearing protective clothing because we had reports of missiles being thrown.\" In an attempt to contain the riot around 50 police officers in riot gear formed lines to close Brixton's main road (Brixton Road), preventing anyone from entering the area. The street had been the scene of rioting in 1981. Police also sealed off a two-mile area around the centre of Brixton and closed Brixton and Stockwell stations. A police helicopter was dispatched over Brixton. It was reported that shots were fired as the centre of the demonstration moved into the area of the Ritzy Cinema. It was also reported that a crowd of at least ten rioters pulled a police motorcyclist from his machine. The Dogstar, Coldharbour Lane was among the businesses attacked by the rioters. Formerly The Atlantic, a predominantly black pub, and recently refurbished. The riot later developed into what police called \"sporadic pockets of trouble in the area around Brixton town centre\". The police stated that \"We gave them every opportunity to move off peacefully but they hadn't done so.\"\n\nOne police officer suffered a broken shoulder, fractured ribs and bruising during the riots. He praised the Territorial Support Group for protecting him from rioters after he was knocked off his motorbike and beaten.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that local residents were outraged by the death of a black man in police custody and saw the riots as expression of alienation in an impoverished area devastated by race riots in 1981. It quotes Harold Douglas, 39, as saying: \n\nLast night happened because the only time a black man is seen and listened to is when he comes out on the street...They cause a million pounds of damage and then people start taking notice.\nAt a news conference at the time, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Condon is quoted to have said:\n\nIt was not Brixton rioting last night. It was a small minority of thugs and criminals who, as ever, were looking for the opportunity to embark on criminal activities.\nA local resident at the time stated:\n\nLocal people are not only pissed off with the death of Wayne Douglas but the whole gentrification of Brixton. Council houses and houses occupied by squatters are being sold off and local pubs like the Atlantic, traditionally run by black people, was opened last week by yuppies as 'The Dog Star'. In anger this was smashed, looted and burnt out. The £33 million City Challenge development including CCTV is only of benefit to big business not local stallholders.\nSchNews quoted another local resident, identified as 'Joyce', as saying:\n\nPeople were putting up barricades. There were hundreds of people involved, mostly young black and white people and they were local, they weren't outsiders. This was a combination of black people dying in police custody and the way Brixton is at the moment. The place is being yuppified with City Challenge while unemployed centres, adventure playgrounds and libraries are getting shut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407652", "title": "29th century", "text": "29th century\n\nThe 29th century of the Anno Domini (common era) will span from January 1, 2801 – December 31, 2900 of the Gregorian calendar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1881501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881501", "title": "Al-Dhahabi", "text": "Al-Dhahabi\n\nAl-Dhahabi (Full name: Shams al-Dīn Abū ʿAbdallāh Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn ʿUthmān ibn Qāymāẓ ibn ʿAbdallāh al-Turkumānī al-Fāriqī al-Dimashqī al-Shāfiʿī, ), known also as Ibn al-Dhahabī (5 October 1274 – 3 February 1348), a Shafi‘i Muhaddith and historian of Islam.\n\nAl-Dhahabi was born in Damascus on 5 October 1274. His family was of Turkmen descent, originally lived in Mayyafariqin, northeast of Diyar bakr. At some point, they moved to Damascus. He sometimes identified himself as Ibn al-Dhahabi (son of the goldsmith) in reference to his father's profession. He began his study of hadith at age eighteen, travelling from Damascus to Baalbek, Homs, Hama, Aleppo, Nabulus, Cairo, Alexandria, Jerusalem, Hijaz, and elsewhere, after which he returned to Damascus, where he taught and authored many works and achieved wide renown as a perspicuous critic and expert examiner of the hadith, encyclopedic historian and biographer, and foremost authority in the canonical readings of the Qur'an. He studied under more than 100 women. His most important teacher at Baalbek included a woman, Zaynab bint ʿUmar b. al-Kindī.\n\nHe lost his sight two years before he died, leaving three children: his eldest daughter Amat al-`Aziz and his two sons `Abd Allah and Abu Hurayra `Abd al-Rahman. The latter taught the hadith masters Ibn Nasir-ud-din al-Damishqi and Ibn Hajar, to whom he transmitted several works authored or narrated by his father.\n\nAmong al-Dhahabi's most notable teachers in hadith, fiqh and aqida:\n\n\nDhahabi authored nearly a hundred works, some of them of considerable size. His work regarding the practice of prophetic medicine was straightforward in its presentation, but also categorized by the author as alternative medicine. Much of it consisted of an integration of medicine as understood from the revelations of the Muslim prophet Muhammad and the practices of Pre-Islamic Arabia with Ancient Greek medicine, quoting heavily from the ideas and terminologies of Hippocrates and Ibn Sina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193829", "title": "Alabama Claims", "text": "Alabama Claims\n\nThe \"Alabama\" Claims were a series of demands for damages sought by the government of the United States from the United Kingdom in 1869, for the attacks upon Union merchant ships by Confederate Navy commerce raiders built in British shipyards during the American Civil War. The claims focused chiefly on the most famous of these raiders, the , which took more than sixty prizes before she was sunk off the French coast in 1864.\n\nAfter international arbitration endorsed the American position in 1872, Britain settled the matter by paying the United States $15.5 million, ending the dispute and leading to a treaty that restored friendly relations between Britain and the United States. That international arbitration established a precedent, and the case aroused interest in codifying public international law.\n\nThe British Prime Minister Lord Palmerston and Foreign Secretary Lord John Russell failed to stop the \"Alabama\" from putting to sea from the shipyards of John Laird Sons and Company in Birkenhead. The United States Legation in London had explicitly opposed this, and the American Minister to Britain, Charles Francis Adams, charged that the ship was bound for the Confederacy, where it would be used against the United States.\n\nThough both the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary were thought to favor the Confederacy at the time of \"Alabama\" construction, British public opinion was divided on the issue, and MPs such as Richard Cobden campaigned against it. The subsequent departure of the \"Alabama\" proved to be publicly embarrassing, and Palmerston and Russell were later forced to admit that the ship should not have been allowed to depart. The Government had requested advice from the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, Sir Alexander Cockburn, who ruled that her release did not violate Britain's neutrality, because she was not outfitted with guns at the time that they left British ports.\n\nIn the next year, Britain detained two ironclad warships constructed in Birkenhead and destined for the Confederacy. As a result of the uproar over the \"Alabama\", Palmerston instructed the British Admiralty to tender an offer for the purchase of the ships. They had been bought by a go-between, Monsieur Bravay of Paris (who had ordered their construction as intermediary for Confederate principals).\n\nIn what was called the \"Alabama\" Claims, in 1869 the United States claimed direct and collateral damage against Great Britain. In the particular case of the \"Alabama\", the United States claimed that Britain had violated neutrality by allowing five warships to be constructed, especially the \"Alabama\", knowing that it would eventually enter into naval service with the Confederacy.\n\nOther particulars included the following: In the summer of 1862, the British-built steam warship \"Oreto\", later renamed the CSS \"Florida\", was delivered to Nassau in the Bahamas with the secret understanding that it would be later transferred to the Confederate States Navy. British Royal Navy Admiral George Willes Watson (1827–1897) aided the transfer, and Watson's actions were reviewed by the tribunal.\n\nOther warships included the (built at Alexander Stephen and Sons in Glasgow), (built at John Laird and Sons, like the \"Alabama\"), and (built at J & W Dudgeon in London).\n\nSenator Charles Sumner of Massachusetts, the chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, originally wanted to ask for $2 billion in damages, or alternatively, the ceding of Canada to the United States. When American Secretary of State William H. Seward negotiated the Alaska Purchase in 1867, he intended it as the first step in a comprehensive plan to gain control of the entire northwest Pacific Coast. Seward was a firm believer in \"Manifest Destiny\", primarily for its commercial advantages to the United States. Seward expected the West Coast Province of British Columbia to seek annexation to the United States and thought Britain might accept this in exchange for the \"Alabama\" claims. Soon other U.S. politicians endorsed annexation, with the goal of annexing British Columbia, the central Canadian Red River Colony (later Manitoba), and eastern Nova Scotia, in exchange for dropping the damage claims.\n\nThe idea reached a peak in the spring and summer of 1870, with American expansionists, Canadian separatists, and British anti-imperialists seemingly combining forces. The plan was dropped for several reasons: London continued to stall, American commercial and financial groups pressed Washington for a quick settlement of the dispute in cash, the Dominion of Canada offered to have British Columbia enter the Canadian Confederation on very generous terms, which bolstered nationalist sentiment in British Columbia that already favored fealty to the British Empire, Congress became preoccupied with Reconstruction, and most Americans showed little interest in territorial expansion after the long years, expenses and losses of the Civil War.\n\nIn 1871, Hamilton Fish, President Ulysses S. Grant's Secretary of State, worked out an agreement with British representative Sir John Rose to create a commission in Washington comprising six members from the British Empire and six members from the United States. Its assignment was to resolve the \"Alabama\" claims, refinancing, and other international disputes between Canada and the United States by treaty. On March 8, 1871, the Treaty of Washington was signed at the State Department and the U.S. Senate ratified the treaty on May 24, 1871. In accord with the treaty, an international arbitration tribunal met in Geneva. The treaty included the settlement process for the \"Alabama\" Claims, settled disputed Atlantic fisheries and the San Juan Boundary (concerning the Oregon boundary line). Britain and the United States became perpetual allies after the treaty, with Britain having expressed regret over the \"Alabama\" damages.\n\nThe tribunal was composed of representatives:\n\nNegotiations had taken place in Suitland, Maryland, at the estate of businessman Samuel Taylor Suit. The tribunal session was held in a reception room of the Town Hall in Geneva, Switzerland. This has been named .\n\nThe final award of $15,500,000 formed part of the Treaty of Washington and was paid out by Great Britain in 1872. This was balanced against damages of $1,929,819 paid by the United States to Great Britain for illegal Union blockade practices and ceded fishing privileges.\n\nThis established the principle of international arbitration, and launched a movement to codify public international law with hopes for finding peaceful solutions to international disputes. The arbitration of the \"Alabama\" claims was a precursor to the Hague Convention, the League of Nations, the World Court, and the United Nations. The Soviet Union carefully studied the \"Alabama\" claims when assessing whether it could claim damages in response to Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War.\n\nAccording to Vladimir Nabokov, the core incident has a legacy in literary reference, being used as a plot device in \"Anna Karenina\", by Leo Tolstoy. In one early passage, Stiva Oblonsky has a dream that may show his having read of the Alabama Claims through the \"Kölnische Zeitung\". and in the Jules Verne novel \"Around the World in Eighty Days\" Inspector Fix warns Phileas Fogg that the riot they encounter in San Francisco may be connected to the claim.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1186070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186070", "title": "Alice Auma", "text": "Alice Auma\n\nAlice Auma (1956 – 17 January 2007) was an Acholi spirit-medium who, as the head of the Holy Spirit Movement (HSM), led a millennial rebellion against the Ugandan government forces of President Yoweri Museveni from August 1986 until November 1987. The primary spirit she purportedly channelled was that of a dead army officer called \"Lakwena\", meaning messenger, which the Acholi believe to be a manifestation of the Christian Holy Spirit. The combined persona of Alice Auma channelling the spirit Lakwena is often referred to as \"Alice Lakwena\".\n\nAuma was born in 1956. Remaining childless after two marriages, she moved away from her hometown. She eventually converted to Christianity but, on 25 May 1985, she reportedly went insane, unable to either hear or speak, later claiming to have been possessed by the spirit Lakwena. Her father took her to eleven different witches, but none alleviated her condition. Alice claimed Lakwena then guided her to Paraa National Park, where she disappeared for 40 days and returned a spirit-medium, a traditional ethnic religious role.\n\nBefore the defeat of Tito Okello, Auma was one of many spirit-mediums working near the town of Gulu as a minor oracle and spiritual healer. She worked in the midst of the chaos of the anti-National Resistance Army (NRA) insurgency of the Uganda People's Democratic Army and the increasingly brutal counterinsurgency of the NRA. Legend in the later movement holds that on 6 August 1986, Lakwena ordered Auma to stop her work as a diviner and healer, which was pointless in the midst of war, and create a Holy Spirit Movement (HSM) to fight evil and end the bloodshed. This divine mission required the retaking of the capital of Kampala. Thus the Acholi would redeem themselves from the violence they had collectively imposed on the civilians of the Luwero triangle, and would initiate a paradise on earth. A letter to local missionaries explained the transition:\n\nThe good Lord who had sent the Lakwena decided to change his work from that of a doctor to that of a military commander for one simple reason: it is useless to cure a man today only that he be killed the next. So it became an obligation on his part to stop the bloodshed before continuing his work as a doctor.\n\nAuma claimed that Lakwena required that she be possessed by numerous other spirits to achieve its goals. This was unusual in Acholi spirit-behavior. \n\nAt this time, there was a perceived spiritual crisis in the area coinciding with the threat posed by occupying southern forces. The increased level of societal tension and number of deaths were attributed to witchcraft. Moreover, many soldiers fleeing back into Acholi after their defeat at Kampala refused traditional purification ceremonies. These rituals were believed to protect the community from the vengeful spirits of the people the soldiers had killed, but the elders found that they no longer had the authority to force compliance with the convention.\n\nAfter a series of spectacular victories, Auma led the Holy Spirit Movement (HSM) south out of Acholiland towards Kampala. There, she garnered much support from other ethnic groups that had grievances with the Museveni government. However, subsequent military setbacks suffered by the HSM prompted some followers to accuse Auma of being a witch and of using spirits for destructive ends. As the HSM suffered its final defeat under artillery fire in the forests near Kampala, Auma fled and claimed Lakwena had left her.\n\nAuma lived in the Ifo refugee camp near Dadaab in northern Kenya for the remainder of her life, and claimed to have been abandoned by the spirits. In November 2004, she was implicated in child trafficking from Gulu to the refugee camp. In 2006, she claimed to have discovered a cure for HIV/AIDS. Auma died on 17 January 2007, after having been sick for about a week with an unknown illness claimed to be HIV/AIDS.\n\nAlice is believed to be the cousin of Joseph Kony, the leader of the Lord's Resistance Army.\n\nAlthough Auma's practice as a medium immediately after returning to Gulu was not particularly successful, the tale of Paraa became the central text of the HSM. In particular Lakwena's discourse that the insurgency was a rebellion of nature deserves explication. According to the story, Lakwena first held court with all the animals of the park to explore the theme of the ongoing war in the south and the destruction of the environment by warring parties:Lakwena said to the animals: \"You animals, God sent me to ask you whether you bear responsibility for the bloodshed in Uganda.\" The animals denied blame, and the buffalo displayed a wound on his leg, and the hippopotamus displayed a wound on his arm.\n\nLakwena then questioned the water about the war:Lakwena said to the waterfall: \"Water, I am coming to ask you about the sins and bloodshed in this world.\" And the water said: \"The people with two legs kill their brothers and throw their bodies into the water.\" The spirit asked the water what it did with the sinners, and the water said: \"I fight against the sinners, for they are the ones to blame for the bloodshed. Go and fight against the sinners, because they throw their brothers into the water.\"\n\nAfter briefly returning home, Lakwena led Auma to Mount Kilak to deal with the issue of witchcraft. The mountain greeted their arrival with large explosionsThe spirit Lakwena said to the mountain or to the rock: \"God has sent me to find out why there is theft in the world.\" The mountain answered: \"I have gone nowhere and have stolen no one’s children. But people come here to me and name the names of those whom I should kill [by casting spells]. Some ask me for medicine [to bewitch]. This is the sin of the people. I want to give you water to heal diseases. But you must fight against the sinners.\"\n\nIn the climax to the story, God himself specifies who is to blame for all of the suffering and bloodshed:God said that there was a tribe in Uganda that was hated everywhere. This tribe was the Acholi. And God ordered that a lamb be offered, so that they should repent their sins and to put an end to the bloodshed in Acholi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1704164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704164", "title": "Andreas Maislinger", "text": "Andreas Maislinger\n\nAndreas Maislinger (born 26 February 1955 in St. Georgen near Salzburg, Austria) is an Austrian historian and founder of the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service and Braunau Contemporary History Days.\n\nMaislinger studied law and political science in Salzburg and political science and eastern-European history in Vienna, with study visits in, amongst others, Frankfurt am Main and Innsbruck. During his studies in Salzburg, Maislinger advocated for Austrian participation in the International Youth Meeting Center in Oświęcim/Auschwitz; Austrian president Rudolf Kirchschläger declined. Kirchschläger later acknowledged the value of Maislinger's proposal of civilian service for reconciliation and atonement related to the Holocaust.\n\nIn 1980 he received his doctorate for a dissertation on the problems of Austrian defence policy. He subsequently held posts at the Institute for Political Science at the University of Innsbruck, the University of New Orleans as visiting assistant professor, the Humboldt University of Berlin for a research visit, and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1982 he co-founded the working group of independent peace initiatives of Austria and in 1986 he became a member of the founding committee of the Austrian-Israeli society Tirol. Until 1996, he published columns in the \"Jüdische Rundschau\" (Jewish Review).\n\nTogether with Andreas Hörtnagl, Maislinger founded the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service (AHMS). He successfully pleaded for the legal establishment of this kind of alternative to mandatory military service, aiming at promoting education and raising awareness about the Holocaust.\n\nOn September 1, 1992 the first young Austrian started his AHMS at the Museum Auschwitz-Birkenau. Since then more the 500 AHMS representatives worked in 23 countries worldwide. Prominent supporters of this program include Simon Wiesenthal, Teddy Kollek, Ari Rath and Gerhard Röthler.\n\n1998 he founded the Austrian Service Abroad with Andreas Hörtnagl and in 2001 Michael Prochazka became the second vice-chairman.\n\nIn October and November 2009 Andreas Maislinger made a 3-week lecturing and promoting tour through Canada and the United States.\n\nAs a reaction to the participation of the FPÖ (Austrian Freedom Party) in the Austrian federal government in 2000, Maislinger suggested that the city of Braunau am Inn should establish a \"House of Responsibility\" in the birth house of Adolf Hitler.\n\nSince 1992, Maislinger has served as the scientific director of the annual Braunau Contemporary History Days in Braunau am Inn.\n\nHe also participates actively in projects promoting gifted children.\n\nSince 2003 he is in charge of the Georg Rendl Symposion. He had founded the symposium to familiarise people with the life and works of the painter and author Georg Rendl, whom Maislinger had already met as a child in his hometown St. Georgen/Salzburg.\n\nIn 2006 he initiated the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Award, rewarding people who actively contribute to the remembrance of the Holocaust.\n\nIn 2005 Maislinger received the Decoration of Honour in Silver for Services to the Republic of Austria from the president of Austria, Heinz Fischer, and the Medal of Merit of the state of Tirol from Herwig van Staa and Luis Durnwalder.\n\nOn 8 November 2009 Andreas Maislinger was awarded with a Lifetime Achievement Award for \"his 10 year fight to obtain official recognition of alternative, philanthropic service\" at the Annual Dinner of the Los Angeles Museum of the Holocaust together with Holocaust survivor and producer of \"Schindler's List\" Branko Lustig.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290497", "title": "Authenticity (reenactment)", "text": "Authenticity (reenactment)\n\nIn historical reenactment, authenticity (sometimes referred to as the A-factor or simply A) is a measure of how close an item, prop, action, weapon, or custom is to what would actually have been used or done in the time period being depicted.\n\nFor example, in most northern European medieval reenactment cotton is an \"inauthentic\" material—as opposed to wool or linen—though it would be \"authentic\" in more modern periods and events, such as American Civil War reenactment or World War II reenactment. Likewise, pop culture references and talking about modern events or objects (e.g., wrist watches, mobile phones, or President Donald Trump) is inauthentic.\n\nGenerally, the ratio of events and groups enforcing strict authenticity to those permitting (limited) inauthenticity among the participating reenactors is estimated to be half-half, i.e., there are approximately as many groups enforcing historical accuracy as there are permitting a more liberal use of the term \"authentic\". This does, however, vary from country to country.\n\nIn the US, reenactors are commonly divided (or self-divide) into three categories, based on the level of concern for authenticity.\n\nSome, called \"Farbs\" or \"polyester soldiers\" are reenactors who spend relatively little of their time or money maintaining authenticity with regard to uniforms, accessories, or even period behavior. The 'Good Enough' attitude is pervasive among farbs, although even casual observers may be able to point out flaws. \nThe origin of the word \"farb\" (and the derivative adjective \"farby\") is unknown, though it appears to date to early centennial reenactments in 1960 or 1961. Some think that the origin of the word is a truncated version of \"Far be it from authentic.\" An alternative definition is \"Far Be it for me to question/criticise\", or \"Fast And Researchless Buying\". Some early reenactors assert the word derives from German \"Farbe\", color, because inauthentic reenactors were over-colorful compared with the dull blues, greys or browns of the real Civil War uniforms that were the principal concern of American reenactors at the time the word was coined, or the German \"farbische\", manufactured, indicating obviously modern items. According to Mr. Burton K. Kummerow, a member of \"The Black Hats, CSA\" reenactment group in the early 1960s, he first heard it used as a form of fake German to describe a fellow reenactor. The term was picked up by George Gorman of the 2nd North Carolina at the Centennial Manassas Reenactment in 1961, and has been used by reenactors ever since.\n\nAnother group of reenactors often is called \"Mainstream.\" These reenactors are somewhere between farb and authentic. They are more common than either farbs or authentics.\n\nMost mainstream reenactors make an effort at appearing authentic, but may come out of character in the absence of an audience. Visible stitches are likely to be sewn in a period-correct manner, but hidden stitches and undergarments may not be period-appropriate. Food consumed before an audience is likely to be generally appropriate to the time-period, but it may not be seasonally and locally appropriate. Modern items, such as air mattresses and sleeping bags, are sometimes used \"after hours\" or in a hidden fashion. The common attitude is to put on a good show, but that accuracy need only go as far as others can see.\n\nAt the other extreme from farbs are \"hard-core authentics\" or \"progressives,\" as they prefer to be called, sometimes derisively called \"stitch counters\" Hard-cores generally seek an \"immersive\" reenacting experience, trying to live, as much as possible, as someone of their chosen time period might have. This includes eating seasonally and regionally appropriate food, sewing inside seams and undergarments in a period-appropriate manner, and staying in character throughout an event.\nHard-core reenactors generally value thorough research, and sometimes deride mainstream reenactors for perpetuating inaccurate \"reenactorisms\".\n\nTo make their equipment authentic, a reenactor must first decide on the time period, geographic location, and social status they wish to portray. The collection of clothing and equipment is typically called a \"kit\" and the fictional alter ego is called a \"persona\".\n\nSometimes when a person has interests that a single persona can't reasonably encompass, for the sake of being authentic, they might create more than one persona. For example, someone might be interested in Norse (\"Viking\") cultures but also be interested in economics and social history that led to the Landsknecht, might create two separate personae and kits. They can then choose the persona they will portray according to which hobby they want to do, the location of the reenactment, or the weather (cultures that wore a lot of wool and fur are more popular to reenact in winter than summer).\n\nSince authenticity of certain equipment vary between periods and regions, it can be difficult to ensure an entire set or \"kit\" of clothing and gear is authentic for a particular historical persona. Most organized societies have recognized norms for kit and garb for their historic and regional specialty. A key philosophy is to research items in advance, vs. buying things and then trying to \"fit them in\" to the time and place being reenacted. For example, the Vikings are not known to have used plate armour, but some would try to justify it because the earlier Roman Army did. Or a person might try to pass off an interesting Polish hat by claiming their French persona had traveled to Poland. Such tactics serve to confuse an uneducated audience, however, since many will simply assume that if everyone is portraying Vikings, French pikemen, Prussians grenadiers, etc. that they are also wearing and using items common to that era and people.\n\nAuthenticity can apply to other things. For example, a card game, song, or military tactic is authentic if known to be popular during the period.\n\nThe quest for authentic clothes and equipment often requires archaeological evidence and other historical sources that reveal what was used at the time. A reenactor may become a scholar of history in pursuit of an accurate persona. Many time-periods now have on-line discussion boards where reenactors and historians argue the merits of various items, how to make them, or where to purchase them.\n\nSeveral factors commonly limit the attainable level of authenticity. These include:\n\n\nThe specific German approach of Authenticity (reenactment) is less about replaying a certain event, but to allow an immersion in a certain era. Historic city festivals and events are quite important to build up local communities and contribute to the self-image of municipalities. Events in monuments or on historical sites are less about the events related to them but as mere staffage for the immersion experience.\n\nThe strictness with which authenticity is enforced varies widely with different events and groups. While some consider only documented historical use to be authentic, and ban all inauthentic gear and behaviour from reenactment activities, others permit materials that plausibly could have existed, others permit inauthentic materials that can't be seen by the public, and still others only require that \"it has to look authentic from 10 meters away\" (i.e. from a distant audience's perspective).\n\nSimilarly, many groups permit equipment combined from a wider range of centuries than what could be considered historically accurate (e.g. 12th century soldiers wearing barbute helmets). This sometimes results from safety rules that require protective gauntlets and helmets, even when this interferes with historical accuracy.\n\nIn addition to mixing multiple centuries of a general period in a single event (usually to ensure a larger number of participants), some events feature more than a single period, especially if the event strongly focuses on combat displays or battles. In such cases, it is not unusual that the same reenactor participates in more than one show, sometimes with only slightly altered gear (depending on how strictly authenticity is enforced).\nA typical example is a \"clankie\" (a reenactor in full plate armour) removing his armour, picking up a round shield and participating in a Dark Age battle.\n\nMany groups, especially in medieval reenactment, heavily promote the use of \"market speech\", i.e., talking in a way that \"sounds\" appropriate for the period. Inauthentic equipment and behaviour is often referred to via descriptive phrases like \"pocket dragon\" (for a lighter or box of matches) and \"horseless carriage\" (for a car or other engine-powered vehicle) to circumvent strict enforcement of authentic speech. Other groups expect reenactors to stay fully in-character throughout an event, and refrain from commenting on non-period items. To adequately explain activities to an audience, many such groups designate one or two people as \"interpreters\" who can step out of character to discuss things from a modern perspective.\n\nOther ways to circumvent the need for authentic equipment include \"hiding\" plastic bottles (usually by wrapping them in cloths or furs), using \"bindings\" (long straps of cloth or fur) to make inauthentic footgear look more adequate, or simply hiding coolboxes inside wooden chests.\n\nFor safety and comfort, authenticity is usually restricted to designated public areas, thus allowing for the use of portable toilets and inauthentic tenting by reenactors outside these areas.\n\nA typical issue among strictly authentic reenactors is the inclusion of female combatants, as this is a clash between authenticity (there were no female combatants in most reenacted periods) and modern concepts of sexual equality.\n\nSimilarly some groups enforce authentic hairstyles (e.g., 20th century soldiers are usually not expected to wear long hair or beards) and often (inauthentic) jewelry is not permitted—although in combat reenactment this is often more of a safety issue than a question of authenticity.\n\n"}
{"id": "5030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5030", "title": "Bloody Sunday (1972)", "text": "Bloody Sunday (1972)\n\nBloody Sunday – sometimes called the Bogside Massacre – was an incident on 30 January 1972 in the Bogside area of Derry, Northern Ireland, when British soldiers shot 28 unarmed civilians during a peaceful protest march against internment. Fourteen people died: thirteen were killed outright, while the death of another man four months later was attributed to his injuries. Many of the victims were shot while fleeing from the soldiers and some were shot while trying to help the wounded. Other protesters were injured by rubber bullets or batons, and two were run down by army vehicles. The march had been organised by the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association (NICRA). The soldiers involved were members of the 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment, also known as \"1 Para\".\n\nTwo investigations have been held by the British government. The Widgery Tribunal, held in the immediate aftermath of the incident, largely cleared the soldiers and British authorities of blame. It described the soldiers' shooting as \"bordering on the reckless\", but accepted their claims that they shot at gunmen and bomb-throwers. The report was widely criticised as a \"whitewash\". The Saville Inquiry, chaired by Lord Saville of Newdigate, was established in 1998 to reinvestigate the incident. Following a 12-year inquiry, Saville's report was made public in 2010 and concluded that the killings were both \"unjustified\" and \"unjustifiable\". It found that all of those shot were unarmed, that none was posing a serious threat, that no bombs were thrown, and that soldiers \"knowingly put forward false accounts\" to justify their firing. On the publication of the report, British prime minister David Cameron made a formal apology on behalf of the United Kingdom. Following this, police began a murder investigation into the killings.\n\nBloody Sunday was one of the most significant events of \"the Troubles\" because a large number of civilians were killed, by forces of the state, in full view of the public and the press. It was the highest number of people killed in a single shooting incident during the conflict. Bloody Sunday increased Catholic and Irish nationalist hostility towards the British Army and exacerbated the conflict. Support for the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) rose and there was a surge of recruitment into the organisation, especially locally.\n\nThe City of Derry was perceived by many Catholics and Irish nationalists in Northern Ireland to be the epitome of what was described as \"fifty years of Unionist misrule\": despite having a nationalist majority, gerrymandering ensured elections to the City Corporation always returned a unionist majority. At the same time the city was perceived to be deprived of public investment – rail routes to the city were closed, motorways were not extended to it, a university was opened in the relatively small (Protestant-majority) town of Coleraine rather than Derry and, above all, the city's housing stock was in an appalling state. The city therefore became a significant focus of the civil rights campaign led by organisations such as Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association (NICRA) in the late 1960s and it was in Derry that the so-called Battle of the Bogside – the event that more than any other pushed the Northern Ireland administration to ask for military support for civil policing – took place in August 1969.\n\nWhile many Catholics initially welcomed the British Army as a neutral force, in contrast to what was regarded as a sectarian police force, relations between them soon deteriorated.\n\nIn response to escalating levels of violence across Northern Ireland, internment without trial was introduced on 9 August 1971. There was disorder across Northern Ireland following the introduction of internment, with 21 people being killed in three days of rioting. In Belfast, soldiers of the Parachute Regiment shot dead 11 Catholic civilians in what became known as the Ballymurphy Massacre. On 10 August, Bombardier Paul Challenor became the first soldier to be killed by the Provisional IRA in Derry, when he was shot by a sniper on the Creggan estate. A further six soldiers had been killed in Derry by mid-December 1971. At least 1,332 rounds were fired at the British Army, who also faced 211 explosions and 180 nail bombs, and who fired 364 rounds in return.\n\nIRA activity also increased across Northern Ireland with thirty British soldiers being killed in the remaining months of 1971, in contrast to the ten soldiers killed during the pre-internment period of the year. Both the Official IRA and Provisional IRA had established no-go areas for the British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) in Derry through the use of barricades. By the end of 1971, 29 barricades were in place to prevent access to what was known as Free Derry, 16 of them impassable even to the British Army's one-ton armoured vehicles. IRA members openly mounted roadblocks in front of the media, and daily clashes took place between nationalist youths and the British Army at a spot known as \"aggro corner\". Due to rioting and damage to shops caused by incendiary devices, an estimated total of worth of damage had been done to local businesses.\n\nOn 18 January 1972, Brian Faulkner, Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, banned all parades and marches in Northern Ireland until the end of the year.\n\nOn 22 January 1972, a week before Bloody Sunday, an anti-internment march was held at Magilligan strand, near Derry. The protesters marched to a new internment camp there, but were stopped by soldiers of the Parachute Regiment. When some protesters threw stones and tried to go around the barbed wire, paratroopers drove them back by firing rubber bullets at close range and making baton charges. The paratroopers badly beat a number of protesters and had to be physically restrained by their own officers. These allegations of brutality by paratroopers were reported widely on television and in the press. Some in the Army also thought there had been undue violence by the paratroopers.\n\nNICRA intended, despite the ban, to hold another anti-internment march in Derry on Sunday 30 January. The authorities decided to allow it to proceed in the Catholic areas of the city, but to stop it from reaching Guildhall Square, as planned by the organisers. The authorities expected that this would lead to rioting. Major General Robert Ford, then Commander of Land Forces in Northern Ireland, ordered that the 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment (1 Para), should travel to Derry to be used to arrest possible rioters. The arrest operation was codenamed 'Operation Forecast'. The Saville Report criticised General Ford for choosing the Parachute Regiment for the operation, as it had \"a reputation for using excessive physical violence\". The paratroopers arrived in Derry on the morning of the march and took up positions in the city. Brigadier Pat MacLellan was the operational commander and issued orders from Ebrington Barracks. He gave orders to Lieutenant Colonel Derek Wilford, commander of 1 Para. He in turn gave orders to Major Ted Loden, who commanded the company who launched the arrest operation.\n\nThe protesters planned on marching from Bishop's Field, in the Creggan housing estate, to the Guildhall, in the city centre, where they would hold a rally. The march set off at about 2:45pm. There were 10,000–15,000 people on the march, with many joining along its route. Lord Widgery, in his now discredited tribunal, said that there were only 3,000 to 5,000.\n\nThe march made its way along William Street but, as it neared the city centre, its path was blocked by British Army barriers. The organisers redirected the march down Rossville Street, intending to hold the rally at Free Derry Corner instead. However, some broke off from the march and began throwing stones at soldiers manning the barriers. The soldiers fired rubber bullets, CS gas and water cannon to try to disperse the rioters. Such clashes between soldiers and youths were common, and observers reported that the rioting was not intense.\n\nSome of the crowd spotted paratroopers hiding in a derelict three-story building overlooking William Street, and began throwing stones at the windows. At about 3:55pm, these paratroopers opened fire. Civilians Damien Donaghy and John Johnston were shot and wounded while standing on waste ground opposite the building. These were the first shots fired. The soldiers claimed Donaghy was holding a black cylindrical object, but the Saville Inquiry concluded that all of those shot were unarmed.\n\nAt 4:07pm, the paratroopers were ordered to go through the barriers and arrest rioters. The paratroopers, on foot and in armoured vehicles, chased people down Rossville Street and into the Bogside. Two people were knocked down by the vehicles. Brigadier MacLellan had ordered that only one company of paratroopers be sent through the barriers, on foot, and that they should not chase people down Rossville Street. Colonel Wilford disobeyed this order, which meant there was no separation between rioters and peaceful marchers.\n\nThe paratroopers disembarked and began seizing people. There were many claims of paratroopers beating people, clubbing them with rifle butts, firing rubber bullets at them from close range, making threats to kill, and hurling abuse. The Saville Report agreed that soldiers \"used excessive force when arresting people […] as well as seriously assaulting them for no good reason while in their custody\".\n\nOne group of paratroopers took up position at a low wall about in front of a rubble barricade that stretched across Rossville Street. There were people at the barricade and some were throwing stones at the soldiers, but none were near enough to hit them. The soldiers fired on the people at the barricade, killing six and wounding a seventh.\n\nA large group of people fled or were chased into the car park of Rossville Flats. This area was like a courtyard, surrounded on three sides by high-rise flats. The soldiers opened fire, killing one civilian and wounding six others. This fatality, Jackie Duddy, was running alongside a priest, Father Edward Daly, when he was shot in the back.\n\nAnother group of people fled into the car park of Glenfada Park, which was also a courtyard-like area surrounded by flats. Here, the soldiers shot at people across the car park, about 40–50 yards away. Two civilians were killed and at least four others wounded. The Saville Report says it is \"probable\" that at least one soldier fired from the hip towards the crowd, without aiming.\n\nThe soldiers went through the car park and out the other side. Some soldiers went out the southwest corner, where they shot dead two civilians. The other soldiers went out the southeast corner and shot four more civilians, killing two.\n\nAbout ten minutes had elapsed between the time soldiers drove into the Bogside and the time the last of the civilians was shot. More than 100 rounds were fired by the soldiers.\n\nSome of those shot were given first aid by civilian volunteers, either on the scene or after being carried into nearby homes. They were then driven to hospital, either in civilian cars or in ambulances. The first ambulances arrived at 4:28pm. The three boys killed at the rubble barricade were driven to hospital by the paratroopers. Witnesses said paratroopers lifted the bodies by the hands and feet and dumped them in the back of their APC, as if they were \"pieces of meat\". The Saville Report agreed that this is an \"accurate description of what happened\". It says the paratroopers \"might well have felt themselves at risk, but in our view this does not excuse them\".\n\nIn all, 26 people were shot by the paratroopers; 13 died on the day and another individual died of his injuries four months later. Most of the fatalities were killed in four main areas: the rubble barricade across Rossville Street, the courtyard car park of Rossville Flats (on the north side of the flats), the courtyard car park of Glenfada Park, and the forecourt of Rossville Flats (on the south side of the flats).\n\nAll of the soldiers responsible insisted that they had shot at, and hit, gunmen or bomb-throwers. The Saville Report concluded that all of those shot were unarmed and that none were posing a serious threat. It also concluded that none of the soldiers fired in response to attacks, or threatened attacks, by gunmen or bomb-throwers.\n\nThe casualties are listed in the order in which they were killed.\n\n\n\nThirteen people were shot and killed, with another man later dying of his wounds. The official army position, backed by the British Home Secretary the next day in the House of Commons, was that the paratroopers had reacted to gun and nail bomb attacks from suspected IRA members. Apart from the soldiers, all eyewitnesses—including marchers, local residents, and British and Irish journalists present—maintain that soldiers fired into an unarmed crowd, or were aiming at fleeing people and those tending the wounded, whereas the soldiers themselves were not fired upon. No British soldier was wounded by gunfire or reported any injuries, nor were any bullets or nail bombs recovered to back up their claims.\n\nOn 2 February 1972, the day that 12 of those killed were buried, there was a general strike in the Republic. It was described as the biggest general strike in Europe since the Second World War relative to population. Memorial services were held in Catholic and Protestant churches, as well as synagogues, throughout the Republic. The same day, irate crowds burned down the British embassy on Merrion Square in Dublin. Anglo-Irish relations hit one of their lowest ebbs with the Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Patrick Hillery, going to the United Nations Security Council in New York to demand the involvement of a UN peacekeeping force in the Northern Ireland conflict.\n\nIn the days following Bloody Sunday, Bernadette Devlin, the independent Irish nationalist Member of Parliament for Mid Ulster, expressed anger at what she perceived as British government attempts to stifle accounts being reported about the shootings. Having witnessed the events firsthand, she was infuriated that Speaker Selwyn Lloyd consistently denied her the chance to speak in Parliament about the shootings, although parliamentary convention decreed that any MP witnessing an incident under discussion would be granted an opportunity to speak about it in Parliament.\nDevlin slapped Reginald Maudling, the Secretary of State for the Home Department in the Conservative government, when he made a statement to Parliament that the British Army had fired only in self-defence.\nShe was temporarily suspended from Parliament as a result.\n\nTwo days after Bloody Sunday, the British Parliament adopted a resolution for a tribunal into the shootings, resulting in Prime Minister Edward Heath commissioning the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Widgery, to undertake it. Many witnesses intended to boycott the tribunal as they lacked faith in Widgery's impartiality, but were eventually persuaded to take part. Widgery's quickly-produced report—completed within 10 weeks (on 10 April) and published within 11 weeks (on 19 April)—supported the Army's account of the events of the day. Among the evidence presented to the tribunal were the results of paraffin tests, used to identify lead residues from firing weapons, and that nail bombs had been found on the body of one of those killed. Tests for traces of explosives on the clothes of eleven of the dead proved negative, while those of the remaining man could not be tested as they had already been washed. Most witnesses to the event disputed the report's conclusions and regarded it as a whitewash. It has been argued that firearms residue on some deceased may have come from contact with the soldiers who themselves moved some of the bodies, or that the presence of lead on the hands of one (James Wray) was easily explained by the fact that his occupation involved the use of lead-based solder.\n\nAlthough there were many IRA men—both Official and Provisional—at the protest, it is claimed they were all unarmed, apparently because it was anticipated that the paratroopers would attempt to \"draw them out\". March organiser and MP Ivan Cooper had been promised beforehand that no armed IRA men would be near the march. One paratrooper who gave evidence at the tribunal testified that they were told by an officer to expect a gunfight and \"We want some kills\". In the event, one man was witnessed by Father Edward Daly and others haphazardly firing a revolver in the direction of the paratroopers. Later identified as a member of the Official IRA, this man was also photographed in the act of drawing his weapon, but was apparently not seen or targeted by the soldiers. Various other claims have been made to the Saville Inquiry about gunmen on the day.\n\nAn inquest into the deaths was held in August 1973. The city's coroner, Hubert O'Neill, a retired British Army major, issued a statement at the completion of the inquest. He declared:\n\nSeveral months after Bloody Sunday, the 1st Battalion Parachute Regiment—again under Lt Col Derek Wilford—were involved in another controversial shooting incident. On 7 September, 1 Para raided houses and the headquarters of the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) in the Protestant Shankill area of Belfast. Two Protestant civilians were shot dead and others wounded by the paratroopers, who claimed they were returning fire at loyalist gunmen. This sparked angry demonstrations by local Protestants, and the UDA declared: \"Never has Ulster witnessed such licensed sadists and such blatant liars as the 1st Paras. These gun-happy louts must be removed from the streets\". A unit of the British Army's Ulster Defence Regiment refused to carry out duties until 1 Para was withdrawn from the Shankill.\n\nAt the end of 1972, Lt Col Wilford, who was directly in charge of the soldiers involved in Bloody Sunday, was awarded the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn 1992, John Major, writing to John Hume stated: \"The Government made clear in 1974 that those who were killed on 'Bloody Sunday' should be regarded as innocent of any allegation that they were shot whilst handling firearms or explosives\". In 2007, General (then Captain) Sir Mike Jackson, adjutant of 1 Para on Bloody Sunday, said: \"I have no doubt that innocent people were shot\". This was in sharp contrast to his insistence, for more than 30 years, that those killed on the day had not been innocent. In 2008 a former aide to British prime minister Tony Blair, Jonathan Powell, described Widgery as a \"complete and utter whitewash\".\nIn 1998, Lt Col Derek Wilford expressed his anger at Tony Blair's intention of setting up the Saville inquiry, stating that he was proud of his actions on Bloody Sunday. Two years later in 2000 during an interview with the BBC, Wilford said: \"There might have been things wrong in the sense that some innocent people, people who were not carrying a weapon, were wounded or even killed. But that was not done as a deliberate malicious act. It was done as an act of war\".\n\nAlthough British prime minister John Major rejected John Hume's requests for a public inquiry into the killings, his successor, Tony Blair, decided to start one. A second commission of inquiry, chaired by Lord Saville, was established in January 1998 to re-examine Bloody Sunday. The other judges were John Toohey QC, a former Justice of the High Court of Australia who had worked on Aboriginal issues (he replaced New Zealander Sir Edward Somers QC, who retired from the Inquiry in 2000 for personal reasons), and Mr Justice William Hoyt QC, former Chief Justice of New Brunswick and a member of the Canadian Judicial Council. The hearings were concluded in November 2004, and the report was published 15 June 2010. The Saville Inquiry was a more comprehensive study than the Widgery Tribunal, interviewing a wide range of witnesses, including local residents, soldiers, journalists and politicians. Lord Saville declined to comment on the Widgery report and made the point that the Saville Inquiry was a judicial inquiry into Bloody Sunday, not the Widgery Tribunal.\n\nEvidence given by Martin McGuinness, a senior member of Sinn Féin and later the deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland, to the inquiry stated that he was second-in-command of the Derry City brigade of the Provisional IRA and was present at the march. A claim was made at the Saville Inquiry that McGuinness was responsible for supplying detonators for nail bombs on Bloody Sunday. Paddy Ward claimed he was the leader of the Fianna Éireann, the youth wing of the IRA in January 1972. He claimed that McGuinness, the second-in-command of the IRA in the city at the time, and another anonymous IRA member gave him bomb parts on the morning of 30 January, the date planned for the civil rights march. He said his organisation intended to attack city-centre premises in Derry on the day when civilians were shot dead by British soldiers. In response McGuinness rejected the claims as \"fantasy\", while Gerry O'Hara, a Sinn Féin councillor in Derry stated that he and not Ward was the Fianna leader at the time.\n\nMany observers allege that the Ministry of Defence acted in a way to impede the inquiry. Over 1,000 army photographs and original army helicopter video footage were never made available. Additionally, guns used on the day by the soldiers that could have been evidence in the inquiry were lost by the MoD. The MoD claimed that all the guns had been destroyed, but some were subsequently recovered in various locations (such as Sierra Leone and Beirut) despite the obstruction.\n\nBy the time the inquiry had retired to write up its findings, it had interviewed over 900 witnesses, over seven years, making it the biggest investigation in British legal history. The cost of this process has drawn criticism; as of the publication of the Saville Report being .\nThe inquiry was expected to report in late 2009 but was delayed until after the general election on 6 May 2010.\n\nThe report of the inquiry was published on 15 June 2010. The report concluded, \"The firing by soldiers of 1 PARA on Bloody Sunday caused the deaths of 13 people and injury to a similar number, none of whom was posing a threat of causing death or serious injury.\" Saville stated that British paratroopers \"lost control\", fatally shooting fleeing civilians and those who tried to aid civilians who had been shot by the British soldiers. The report stated that British soldiers had concocted lies in their attempt to hide their acts. Saville stated that the civilians had not been warned by the British soldiers that they intended to shoot. The report states, contrary to the previously established belief, that no stones and no petrol bombs were thrown by civilians before British soldiers shot at them, and that the civilians were not posing any threat.\n\nThe report concluded that an Official IRA sniper fired on British soldiers, albeit that on the balance of evidence his shot was fired \"after\" the Army shots that wounded Damien Donaghey and John Johnston. The Inquiry rejected the sniper's account that this shot had been made in reprisal, stating the view that he and another Official IRA member had already been in position, and the shot had probably been fired simply because the opportunity had presented itself. Ultimately the Saville Inquiry was inconclusive on Martin McGuinness's role, due to a lack of certainty over his movements, concluding that while he was \"engaged in paramilitary activity\" during Bloody Sunday, and had probably been armed with a Thompson submachine gun, there was insufficient evidence to make any finding other than they were \"sure that he did not engage in any activity that provided any of the soldiers with any justification for opening fire\".\n\nRegarding the soldiers in charge on the day of Bloody Sunday, the Saville Inquiry arrived at the following findings:\n\n\nReporting on the findings of the Saville Inquiry in the House of Commons, the British prime minister David Cameron said:Mr Speaker, I am deeply patriotic. I never want to believe anything bad about our country. I never want to call into question the behaviour of our soldiers and our army, who I believe to be the finest in the world. And I have seen for myself the very difficult and dangerous circumstances in which we ask our soldiers to serve. But the conclusions of this report are absolutely clear. There is no doubt, there is nothing equivocal, there are no ambiguities. What happened on Bloody Sunday was both unjustified and unjustifiable. It was wrong.\n\nFollowing the publication of the report, a murder investigation was begun by the Police Service of Northern Ireland's Legacy Investigation Branch. On 10 November 2015, a 66-year-old former member of the Parachute Regiment was arrested for questioning over the deaths of William Nash, Michael McDaid and John Young.\n\nHarold Wilson, then the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons, reiterated his belief that a united Ireland was the only possible solution to Northern Ireland's Troubles. William Craig, then Stormont Home Affairs Minister, suggested that the west bank of Derry should be ceded to the Republic of Ireland.\n\nWhen it was deployed on duty in Northern Ireland, the British Army was welcomed by Roman Catholics as a neutral force there to protect them from Protestant mobs, the RUC and the B-Specials. After Bloody Sunday many Catholics turned on the British army, seeing it no longer as their protector but as their enemy. Young nationalists became increasingly attracted to violent republican groups. With the Official IRA and Official Sinn Féin having moved away from mainstream Irish republicanism towards Marxism, the Provisional IRA began to win the support of newly radicalised, disaffected young people.\n\nIn the following twenty years, the Provisional Irish Republican Army and other smaller republican groups such as the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) stepped up their armed campaigns against the state and those seen as being in service to it. With rival paramilitary organisations appearing in both the nationalist/republican and unionist/loyalist communities (such as the Ulster Defence Association (UDA), Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), etc. on the loyalist side), the Troubles cost the lives of thousands of people.\n\nIn his speech to the House of Commons on the Inquiry, British prime minister David Cameron stated: \"These are shocking conclusions to read and shocking words to have to say. But you do not defend the British Army by defending the indefensible.\" He acknowledged that all those who died were unarmed when they were killed by British soldiers, and that a British soldier had fired the first shot at civilians. He also said that this was not a premeditated action, though \"there was no point in trying to soften or equivocate\" as \"what happened should never, ever have happened\". Cameron then apologised on behalf of the British Government by saying he was \"deeply sorry\".\n\nA survey conducted by Angus Reid Public Opinion in June 2010 found that 61 per cent of Britons and 70 per cent of Northern Irish agreed with Cameron's apology for the Bloody Sunday events.\n\nStephen Pollard, solicitor representing several of the soldiers, said on 15 June 2010 that Saville had cherry-picked the evidence and did not have justification for his findings.\nIn 2012 an actively serving British army soldier from Belfast was charged with inciting hatred by a surviving relative of the deceased, due to their online use of social media to promote sectarian slogans about the killings while featuring banners of the Parachute Regiment logo.\n\nIn January 2013, shortly before the annual Bloody Sunday remembrance march, two Parachute Regiment flags appeared in the loyalist Fountain, and Waterside, Drumahoe areas of Derry. The display of the flags was heavily criticised by nationalist politicians and relatives of the Bloody Sunday dead. The Ministry of Defence also condemned the flying of the flags. The flags were removed to be replaced by Union Flags. In the run up to the loyalist marching season in 2013 the flag of the Parachute Regiment appeared alongside other loyalist flags in other parts of Northern Ireland. In 2014 loyalists in Cookstown erected the flags in opposition, close to the route of a St.Patrick's Day parade in the town.\n\nPaul McCartney (who is of Irish descent) recorded the first song in response only two days after the incident. The single, entitled \"Give Ireland Back to the Irish\", expressed his views on the matter. This song was one of few McCartney released with Wings to be banned by the BBC.\n\nThe 1972 John Lennon album \"Some Time in New York City\" features a song entitled \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\", inspired by the incident, as well as the song \"The Luck of the Irish\", which dealt more with the Irish conflict in general. Lennon, who was of Irish descent, also spoke at a protest in New York in support of the victims and families of Bloody Sunday.\n\nIrish poet Thomas Kinsella's 1972 poem \"Butcher's Dozen\" is a satirical and angry response to the Widgery Tribunal and the events of Bloody Sunday.\n\nBlack Sabbath's Geezer Butler (also of Irish descent) wrote the lyrics to the Black Sabbath song \"Sabbath Bloody Sabbath\" on the album of the same name in 1973. Butler stated, \"…the Sunday Bloody Sunday thing had just happened in Ireland, when the British troops opened fire on the Irish demonstrators… So I came up with the title 'Sabbath Bloody Sabbath', and sort of put it in how the band was feeling at the time, getting away from management, mixed with the state Ireland was in.\"\n\nThe Roy Harper song \"All Ireland\" from the album \"Lifemask\", written in the days following the incident, is critical of the military but takes a long term view with regard to a solution. In Harper's book (\"The Passions of Great Fortune\"), his comment on the song ends \"…there must always be some hope that the children of 'Bloody Sunday', on both sides, can grow into some wisdom\".\n\nBrian Friel's 1973 play \"The Freedom of the City\" deals with the incident from the viewpoint of three civilians.\n\nIrish poet Seamus Heaney's \"Casualty\" (published in \"Field Work,\" 1981) criticizes Britain for the death of his friend.\n\nThe incident has been commemorated by Irish band, U2, in their 1983 protest song \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\".\n\nChristy Moore's song \"Minds Locked Shut\" on the album \"Graffiti Tongue\" is all about the events of the day, and names the dead civilians.\n\nThe events of the day have been dramatised in two 2002 television films, \"Bloody Sunday\" (starring James Nesbitt) and \"Sunday\" by Jimmy McGovern.\n\nThe Celtic metal band Cruachan addressed the incident in a song \"Bloody Sunday\" from their 2004 album \"Folk-Lore\".\n\nWillie Doherty, a Derry-born artist, has amassed a large body of work which addresses the troubles in Northern Ireland. \"30 January 1972\" deals specifically with the events of Bloody Sunday.\n\nIn mid-2005, the play \"\", a dramatisation based on the Saville Inquiry, opened in London, and subsequently travelled to Derry and Dublin. The writer, journalist Richard Norton-Taylor, distilled four years of evidence into two hours of stage performance by Tricycle Theatre. The play received glowing reviews in all the British broadsheets, including \"The Times\": \"The Tricycle's latest recreation of a major inquiry is its most devastating\"; \"The Daily Telegraph\": \"I can't praise this enthralling production too highly… exceptionally gripping courtroom drama\"; and \"The Independent\": \"A necessary triumph\".\n\nIn October 2010, T with the Maggies released the song \"Domhnach na Fola\" (Irish for \"Bloody Sunday\"), written by Mairéad Ní Mhaonaigh and Tríona Ní Dhomhnaill on their debut album.\n\nIrish professional wrestler Finn Bálor named one of his signature manoeuvres, a lifting single underhook DDT, \"Bloody Sunday\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2677379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677379", "title": "Bric-à-brac", "text": "Bric-à-brac\n\nBric-à-brac or bric-a-brac (origin French), first used in the Victorian era, refers to lesser objets d'art forming collections of curios, such as elaborately decorated teacups and small vases, compositions of feathers or wax flowers under glass domes, decorated eggshells, porcelain figurines, painted miniatures or photographs in stand-up frames, and so on. \n\nIn middle-class homes bric-à-brac was used as ornament on mantelpieces, tables, and shelves, or was displayed in curio cabinets: sometimes these cabinets have glass doors to display the items within while protecting them from dust. Today, \"bric-à-brac\" refers to a selection of items of modest value, often sold in street markets and charity shops, and may be more commonly known in colloquial English as \"knick knacks.\"\n\nEdith Wharton and Ogden Codman, Jr., in \"The Decoration of Houses\" (1897), distinguished three gradations of quality in such \"household ornaments\": \"bric-à-brac\", \"bibelots\" (trinkets) and \"objets d'art\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58441497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58441497", "title": "Charalambos Bouras", "text": "Charalambos Bouras\n\nCharalambos Bouras (Greek: Χαράλαμπος Μπούρας, 17 July 1933 - 27 July 2016) was a major Greek restoration architect, engineer and professor of architectural history. Amongst his most notable contributions are his restoration work on the Acropolis of Athens, Brauron and the monastery of Hosios Loukas as well as the collection of his books and scientific articles.\n\nBouras received a diploma in Architectural Engineering from the National Technical University of Athens in Greece at 1952. In the following years he joined the Greek Archaeological Service as a member of the Directorate of Restoration of Ancient and Historic Monuments. In this role, he undertook the study and restoration of the fifth-century B.C.E. stoa at the Sanctuary of Artemis at Brauron (1961–1962). He then continued his studies at the Université de Paris (École Pratique des Hautes Études) under the supervision of André Grabar, receiving a doctorate at 1964. Meanwhile, he received another doctorate from the Polytechnic School of Thessaloniki (1966). He then became one of the founding members and President of the Acropolis Restoration Service, coauthored the first volume on the Europa Nostra's restoration of the Parthenon and issued his book on the Nea Moni of Chios.\n\nCharalambos Bouras was born in Preveza on 17 July 1933. He grew up in Chios, where his family moved when his father (a state chemist) was transferred there.\n\nHe was married to fellow architect and Byzantinist Laskarina Philippidou (Boura), who died early. At a second marriage, he married archaeologist Kornilia Hadjiaslani, with whom he acquired a son, Nikias.\n\nBouras died in Athens on July 27, 2016. He was buried on July 29, at the First Cemetery of Athens.\n\nCharalambos Bouras was awarded the following order:\n\n"}
{"id": "37484595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37484595", "title": "Chris Braithwaite", "text": "Chris Braithwaite\n\nChris Braithwaite, also known as Chris Jones (1885 - 9 September 1944), was a black Barbadian who was leader of the Colonial Seamen's Association in the 1930s.\n\nBorn in Barbados, Braithwaite went to sea with the British merchant navy as a teenager and travelled the world as a sailor. He then settled in Chicago and founded a family, before rejoining the Merchant Navy during World War I. After World War I he lived in New York City for a while, before moving to settle in London, working for the Shipping Federation. He married a white woman, Edna, from Stepney, and they lived in Stepney.\n\nBraithwaite became a member of the National Union of Seamen, and in 1930 joined the Seamen's Minority Movement, a rank-and-file group organised by the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB). Taking the pseudonym \"Chris Jones\" to avoid victimisation by his employer, Braithwaite had joined the CPGB by 1931. He helped distribute the \"Negro Worker\", and with Arnold Ward helped launch the Negro Welfare Association, publicising the case of the Scottsboro Boys. In 1933 he followed George Padmore in resigning from the CPGB in protest at the implicit shift away from anti-imperialism involved with the emerging \"Popular Front\" strategy.\n\nIn 1935, opposing the new British Shipping (Assistance) Act 1935, Braithwaite founded the Colonial Seamen's Association - which included Asian seamen alongside other black colonial seamen. He became organising secretary of the International African Service Bureau (IASB), established in May 1937, whose members included Padmore, C. L. R. James, Jomo Kenyatta, Amy Ashwood Garvey and I. T. A. Wallace-Johnson. Braithwaite wrote a monthly column, \"Seamen's Notes\", for the IASB journal, \"International African Opinion\". Braithwaite, Padmore and James continued to oppose the CPGB, turning up together to heckle CPGB meetings. Braithwaite and Padmore worked with the Independent Labour Party (ILP) and with ILP intellectuals like Reginald Reynolds and Ethel Mannin.\n\nHe died from pneumonia on 9 September 1944, survived by his wife and six children.\n\n"}
{"id": "33112483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33112483", "title": "Coins in the Bible", "text": "Coins in the Bible\n\nA number of coins are mentioned in the Bible, and they have proved very popular among coin collectors.\n\nSpecific coins mentioned in the Bible include the widow's mite, the tribute penny and the thirty pieces of silver, though it is not always possible to identify the exact coin that was used.\n\nThe coin referred to in the lesson of the widow's mite was a \"lepton\", the smallest and least valuable coin in circulation in Palestine.\n\nThe tribute penny was the coin that was shown to Jesus when he made his famous speech \"Render unto Caesar...\" It is usually thought that the coin was a Roman denarius with the head of Tiberius. However, it has been suggested that the coin may have instead been an Antiochan tetradrachm bearing the head of Tiberius, with Augustus on the reverse or the denarius of Augustus with Caius and Lucius on the reverse. Coins of Julius Caesar, Mark Antony and Germanicus are also considered possibilities.\n\nThe coin in the fish's mouth mentioned in Matthew 17 is usually thought to be a Tyrian shekel.\n\nAccording to the Gospel of Matthew 26:15, the price for which Judas Iscariot betrayed Jesus was thirty pieces of silver. Scholars disagree on the identity of the coins involved. Donald Wiseman suggests two possibilities for the identity of the coins used to pay Judas. They may have been tetradrachms of Tyre, usually referred to as Tyrian shekels (about 1.38 troy ounces), or they may have been staters from Antioch, which bore the head of Augustus. Alternatively, they may have been Ptolemaic tetradrachms.\n"}
{"id": "2684468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684468", "title": "Coty, Inc.", "text": "Coty, Inc.\n\nCoty, Inc. is a multinational beauty company founded in 1904 by François Coty. With its subsidiaries, it develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes fragrances, cosmetics, skin care, nail care, and both professional and retail hair care products. Coty owns around 77 brands as of 2018.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Francois Coty dropped a bottle of his fragrance \"La Rose Jacqueminot\" on a countertop at the Grands Magasins du Louvre, the Parisian department store. Attracted by the scent, customers swarmed the area demanding to buy the perfume. Coty's entire stock was gone in a few minutes and the store offered him a place on the selling floor for his products. After this incident, he became a major part of the perfume industry.\n\nCoty and Coty International were sold in 1963 to Chas. Pfizer & Co. for about US$26 million and became divisions in the pharmaceuticals company's consumer products group. In 1965, Coty introduced Imprevu, its first new perfume in 25 years. This became the leading Coty fragrance by the end of 1968.\n\nCoty and Coty International were united in 1973. Among the new products introduced in the early 1970s were the Styx, Sweet Earth, and Wild Musk fragrances and the Equatone beauty-treatment line. The production facility was moved from New York City to Sanford, North Carolina, at this time. Coty products were being marketed to franchised accounts, including distributors, independent drugstores, mass merchandisers, and department stores. Results were not meeting expectations, however, for the subsidiary was reported to be on the block in 1974 for possibly as little as $20 million—less than Pfizer had paid a decade earlier.\n\nCoty was purchased in 1992 by Benckiser Consumer Products, the U.S. arm of a family-owned German household-products giant named Joh. A. Benckiser GmbH (now known as JAB Holding Company). In 1993, Benckiser merged into Coty its Quintessence Inc. unit, which it had acquired the previous year. Coty, Inc., grew into a US$1.5-billion-a-year company in 1996, when Benckiser made its Lancaster Group a Coty division. (The existing Coty, renamed Coty Beauty, became the other division.) Lancaster, founded in Monaco in 1946 and acquired from SmithKline Beecham plc in 1990.\n\nDuring the year of 1998, 45 percent of the company's sales were in mass fragrances, 24 percent in mass cosmetics, and 31 percent in prestige-market beauty products. Fifty-five percent of sales volume came from Western Europe and 30 percent from North America.\n\nIn May 2005, Unilever announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to sell its global prestige fragrance business, Unilever Cosmetics International (UCI), to Coty. However, several major brands were sold to Elizabeth Arden.\n\nUnilever reportedly received a consideration of US$800 million in cash at the closing, with the opportunity for further deferred payments contingent upon future sales.\n\nThe business included the perfume licenses for Calvin Klein, Cerruti, Vera Wang, Chloé and Lagerfeld, as well as a manufacturing and distribution center in Mount Olive, New Jersey, which was later closed in June 2007 as operations were transferred to the existing Coty-Sanford, North Carolina, facility.\n\nSales for the global prestige fragrance business for 2004 were in excess of $600 million (€490m). In December 2007, Coty announced the acquisition of DLI Holding Corp.\n\nThe Calgon and Healing Garden brands were purchased by Ascendia Brands on 9 February 2007.\n\nIn August 2009, Coty, Inc., announced that it had entered into a license agreement with global lifestyle brand GUESS?, Inc., to develop and market new GUESS fragrance lines. As part of the partnership, Coty would also distribute existing GUESS fragrances, effective January 2010.\n\nIn November 2010, Coty, Inc., announced that Coty has entered into an agreement to acquire philosophy, inc., from the Carlyle group. In early 2011, Coty, Inc., announced that it had officially concluded the acquisitions of Dr. Scheller Cosmetics, OPI Products, Inc., and TJoy.\n\nIn July 2012, Coty, Inc., appointed Michele Scannavini as the new CEO. Scannavini has been president of Coty Prestige for the last 10 years.\n\nOn June 13, 2013, Coty, Inc., became a public company via the initial public offering of its Class A shares on the NYSE. Coty raised $1.0 billion in the largest consumer IPO since Arcos Dorados' $1.3 billion IPO in 2011. The company operates in three segments: fragrances, color cosmetics and skin and body care.\n\nIn June 2014, Coty discontinued TJoy. On September 29, 2014, Michele Scannavini had stepped down from the CEO position, and Bart Becht named interim CEO.\n\nOn July 9, 2015, Coty announced it had reached a definitive agreement to purchase some of Procter & Gamble's beauty brands for $12.5 billion in a deal that would more than double its sales and transform it into one of the world’s largest cosmetics companies.\n\nIn October 2015, Coty acquired leading global digital marketing platform Beamly, providing Coty with a step change across digital marketing capabilities.\n\nIn November 2015, Coty acquired Hypermarcas’ Beauty & Personal Care Business, providing Coty a strong position in Brazilian beauty & personal care market, the third-largest beauty market in the world.\n\nIn July 2016, Coty named Camillo Pane as CEO and member of the Coty Board, each effective as of the day following the closing of the merger with P&G Specialty Beauty.\n\nIn October 2016, Coty completed its merger with P&G Specialty Beauty Business, transforming Coty into one of the world’s leading beauty companies with the number one position in fragrances, and number two and three positions in salon hair and color cosmetics, respectively.\n\nIn October 2016, the company confirmed it had reached an agreement with Lion Capital LLP to buy Good Hair Day (GHD), a manufacturer of hair care products, for $522 million in cash. GHD will be run by its existing management team. The sale was completed on 21 November 2016.\n"}
{"id": "40323369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40323369", "title": "Delmer Brown", "text": "Delmer Brown\n\nDelmer Myers Brown (November 20, 1909November 9, 2011) was an American academic, historian, author, translator and Japanologist. He was a professor of Japanese history at the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nBrown was born on November 20, 1909 in Harrisonville, Missouri and grew up in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1925, he moved with his family to Santa Ana, California. He attended Santa Ana Junior College and then Stanford University, where he graduated with a degree in history in 1932.\n\nInstead of going to law school, as originally planned, Brown took a position teaching English at a prestigious Japanese Imperial \"Higher School\" in Kanazawa, Ishikawa, Japan. It was there that he met and married Mary Nelson Logan in 1934.\n\nDuring World War II, Brown served as an intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy.\n\nBrown earned his Ph.D. in Japanese history from Stanford in 1946.\n\nIn 1987, Mary died after 53 years of marriage. Brown was widowed twice more; by Margaret Young Brown in 2003 and Louise K. Weamer in 2010. He is survived by his companion Pauline Howland, two sisters, a son and three step-children, two granddaughters, and six great-grandchildren.\n\nBrown died on November 9, 2011 following a stroke.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1977, Brown was a member of the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley. He was chairman of the history department from 1957 to 1961 and 1971 to 1975.\n\nBrown was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship in Japan from 1959 to 1960.\n\nIn 1998, Brown started the process of establishing the Japanese Historical Text Initiative (JHTI), which is a searchable online database of Japanese historical documents and English translations. It is part of the Center for Japanese Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. The development of JHTI involved negotiations with the University of Tokyo Press and Japan's National Institute of Japanese Literature.\n\nIn an overview of writings by and about Brown, OCLC/WorldCat lists roughly 40+ works in 80+ publications in 4 languages and 1,500+ library holdings. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "45716501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45716501", "title": "Edward E. Baptist", "text": "Edward E. Baptist\n\nEdward E. Baptist (born 1970) is an American academic and writer. He is a Professor of History at Cornell University, located in Ithaca, New York, where he specializes in the history of the 19th-century United States, and particularly the South. Thematically, he has been interested in the history of capitalism, and has also been interested in digital humanities methodologies. He is the author of numerous books.\n\nBaptist was born in 1970 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, but grew up in Durham, North Carolina. He graduated from Georgetown University and in 1997 earned his doctorate from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.\n\nBaptist is a Professor of History at Cornell University. His areas of interest are 19th-century United States and especially the history of enslavement in America. Baptist is the author of many articles and books including \"\" and the award-winning \"Creating an Old South\".\n\nIn September 2014, Baptist's work came to prominence when \"The Economist\" magazine gave his book \"The Half Has Never Been Told\" an unfavorable review for characterizing slave owners negatively. The review generated widespread outrage against the publication and resulted in a rare withdrawal of the article and an apology from the magazine. Baptist penned a response in \"Politico\" magazine, in which he states:\n\nHad the \"Economist\" actually engaged the book's arguments, the reviewer would have had to confront the scary fact that the unrestrained domination of market forces can sometimes amplify existing forms of oppression into something more horrific. No wonder the \"Economist\" abandoned its long-standing intellectual commitments in favor of sloppy old paternalism on Sept. 4, because if it hadn't, Mr./Ms. Anonymous might have had to admit that market fundamentalism doesn't always provide the best solution for every economic or social problem.\"The Half Has Never Been Told\" received mixed reviews from academics. A number of historians, including Eric Foner of Columbia University and Daina Ramey Berry of the University of Texas at Austin, have praised the book. A number of economic historians have been critical of \"The Half Has Never Been Told.\"\n\nBaptist supports replacing Andrew Jackson with Harriet Tubman on the United States twenty-dollar bill. When Howard Kittell, the CEO of the Andrew Jackson Foundation, claimed that the Indian Removal Act was \"within the mainstream thinking,\" Baptist refuted that \"At the time, there were alternatives, there were congressmen who suggested alternatives. The Indian Removal Act was contested, there were lots of folks who opposed it.\" He concluded, \"Harriet Tubman is what's good about America...Andrew Jackson is what's problematic about our history.\"\n\nIn 2017 Baptist was awarded a prestigious Guggenheim Fellowship for a new project on the history of the policing of African Americans from Jamestown to Ferguson.\n\nHe lives in Ithaca, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9383089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9383089", "title": "Eric John Holmyard", "text": "Eric John Holmyard\n\nEric John Holmyard (1891–1959) was an English science teacher at Clifton College, and historian of science and technology. \n\nHolmyard studied at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge and was a member of the Royal Asiatic Society. His scholarly work included rectification of accounts of the history of alchemy, particularly in relation with Islamic science. He translated texts from Arabic and Latin, and wrote extensively on Geber. He was responsible with D. C. Mandeville for the re-attribution of the alchemical text \"De Mineralibus\" to an origin in Avicenna. Holmyard served as the founding editor of the scientific review and history of science journal \"Endeavour\".\n\nAs a textbook author, he pioneered an approach to science teaching that included historical material. \"His historicized science books were an enormous and long-term commercial success, with \"Elementary Chemistry\" (1925) alone selling half-a-million copies by 1960.\"\n\nHe taught both Nevill Mott and Charles Coulson at Clifton, but his personal influence on them as scientists was low (in Coulson's case, even negative). Holmyard also published best seller, A Higher School Inorganic Chemistry, along with W.G. Palmer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9606724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9606724", "title": "Ernst Kris", "text": "Ernst Kris\n\nErnst Kris (April 26, 1900 – February 27, 1957) was an Austrian psychoanalyst and art historian.\n\nKris was born in 1900 to Leopold Kris, a lawyer, and Rosa Schick in Vienna, Austria-Hungary.\n\nKris not only practiced as a psychoanalyst, he also worked as an art historian and published articles on art history. As a psychoanalyst, he made some important contributions to the psychology of the artist and the psychoanalytic interpretation of works of art and caricature. In the review \"Imago\" he published his first psychoanalytic study, \"Ein geisteskranker Bildhauer\" (A mentally ill sculptor) on Franz Xaver Messerschmidt.\n\nDuring the end of the 1910s and the beginning of the 1920s, Kris studied art history under Max Dvořák and Julius von Schlosser at the Department of Art History at the University of Vienna, from which he received his doctorate in 1922. One of the professors was Emanuel Loewy, a friend of Sigmund Freud.\n\nIn 1927 Kris married Marianne Rie, the daughter of another friend of Freud, Oscar Rie. They had two children.\nKris and his wife both became psychoanalysts and Kris began to publish psychoanalytic papers.\n\nA year later, in 1928, Kris intensified his working relationship with Freud, and he became a member of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society. Between 1930 and 1938, Kris worked as a lecturer at the Vienna Psychoanalytic Institute.\n\nIn 1933, Freud asked Kris to become editor of the Imago magazine, in which he published a paper relating art to psychology in 1936. He argued that the difference between the artist and the psychotic is that the artist can return from the world of his imagination to the real world, while the psychotic cannot.\n\nIn 1938, Kris fled to England, after Hitler invaded Austria. In England he became a lecturer and training analyst at the London Institute of Psychoanalysis, until 1940. In London, he also established a working relationship with art historian Ernst Gombrich concerning the art of caricature. At the same time, Kris analyzed Nazi radio broadcasts for the BBC, as his friend Gombrich also did.\n\nIn 1940, Kris and his family moved to New York, where he became a visiting professor at the New School for Social Research, where he founded the \"Research Project on Totalitarian Communication\" (1941–44) alongside Hans Speier. In 1943 he began to work as a lecturer at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and the College of the City of New York.\n\nIn 1945 he co-founded the journal \"The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child\" with Anna Freud and Marie Bonaparte.\n\nIn 1946, Kris became a fellow of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and an associate of the American Psychological Association. He also became a member of the editorial board of the Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association.\n\nKris dedicated the last years of his life to the psychoanalytic theory, ego psychology, early childhood development and a theory of psychoanalytic technique.\n\nKris was one of the first developers of the new ego psychology, a school of psychoanalysis that originated in Freud's ego-superego-id model.\nHe proposed a new way to enter the unconscious; not via a fast and immediate entrance, but via exploration by the surface. It consists of exposing defense mechanisms and not of exploring the id.\n\nKris died in New York City in 1957.\n\nSome of his most influential articles, articles in books or books are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24507284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24507284", "title": "Ernst Sars", "text": "Ernst Sars\n\nJohan Ernst Welhaven Sars (11 October 1835 – 27 January 1917) was a Norwegian professor, historian, author and editor. His main work was \"Udsigt over den norske Historie\", four volumes issued from 1873 to 1891. He co-edited the magazines \"Nyt norsk Tidskrift\" from 1877 to 1878, and \"Nyt Tidsskrift\" from 1882 to 1887. He was politically active for the Liberal Party of Norway and among the party's most central theoreticians.\n\nSars was born in the parish of Kinn (now Flora) in Nordre Bergenhus Amt (now Sogn og Fjordane), Norway. He was the son of Michael Sars (1805–1869) and Maren Cathrine Welhaven (1811–1898). His father was vicar at Kinn Church and at Manger Church and was professor of zoology at the University of Christiania from 1854. His mother was a sister of poet Johan Sebastian Welhaven and author Elisabeth Welhaven.\n\nHe was a brother of singer Eva Sars and zoologist Georg Ossian Sars. He was a cousin of architect Hjalmar Welhaven as well as a brother-in-law of explorer and scientist Fridtjof Nansen and musician Thorvald Lammers. He was not married, and lived along with his brother at their mother's residence until she died in 1898. He died at Aker in 1917.\n\nSars attended the Bergen Cathedral School from 1849. In 1853 he moved to Christiania (now Oslo) as a student. \nHe initiated studies in medicine, but he started to study history. In 1856, he was awarded the Crown Prince's gold medal (\"Kronprinsens gullmedalje\") for having written a prize-winning treatise on the Kalmar Union.\nHe spent the summers 1858 and 1859 in Copenhagen, in order to copy Norwegian documents in Danish archives. He wrote a pioneering work on Norway during the union with Denmark (), published in four parts between 1858 and 1865. He was appointed as an assistant at the National Archival Services of Norway () from 1860 to 1874.\n\nAfter having received a scholarship he lectured at the University of Kristiania from 1870, where he first introduced the subject positivism, and later lectured on Norwegian history. His main work was \"Udsigt over den norske Historie\", a continuous treatment of Norwegian history from the Viking era to contemporary times, which was published in four volumes between 1873 and 1891. The first volume of the series established Sars among the leading intellectuals in Norway. It earned him an extraordinary professorship in 1874, after a Parliamentary decision.\n\nSars co-edited the magazines \"Nyt norsk Tidskrift\" (with Jens Lieblein) from 1877 to 1878, and \"Nyt Tidsskrift\" (with Olaf Skavlan) from 1882 to 1887. He took part in politics, and was active for the Liberal Party, along with Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson. After his publication of \"Historisk Indledning til Grundloven\" (Historical Introduction to the Constitution) in 1882, he was regarded among the Liberal Party's most central theoreticians. He also regarded the dissolution of the union between Sweden and Norway to be the only practical solution to the conflicts with Sweden. He wrote the work \"Norges politiske historie 1815–85\", published between 1899 and 1904, and continued lecturing until 1911.\n"}
{"id": "2490200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2490200", "title": "Evolutionary ethics", "text": "Evolutionary ethics\n\nEvolutionary ethics is a field of inquiry that explores how evolutionary theory might bear on our understanding of ethics or morality. The range of issues investigated by evolutionary ethics is quite broad. Supporters of evolutionary ethics have claimed that it has important implications in the fields of descriptive ethics, normative ethics, and metaethics.\n\nDescriptive evolutionary ethics consists of biological approaches to morality based on the alleged role of evolution in shaping human psychology and behavior. Such approaches may be based in scientific fields such as evolutionary psychology, sociobiology, or ethology, and seek to explain certain human moral behaviors, capacities, and tendencies in evolutionary terms. For example, the nearly universal belief that incest is morally wrong might be explained as an evolutionary adaptation that furthered human survival.\n\nNormative (or prescriptive) evolutionary ethics, by contrast, seeks not to explain moral behavior, but to justify or debunk certain normative ethical theories or claims. For instance, some proponents of normative evolutionary ethics have argued that evolutionary theory undermines certain widely held views of humans' moral superiority over other animals.\n\nEvolutionary metaethics asks how evolutionary theory bears on theories of ethical discourse, the question of whether objective moral values exist, and the possibility of objective moral knowledge. For example, some evolutionary ethicists have appealed to evolutionary theory to defend various forms of moral anti-realism (the claim, roughly, that objective moral facts do not exist) and moral skepticism.\n\nThe first notable attempt to explore links between evolution and ethics was made by Charles Darwin in \"The Descent of Man\" (1871). In Chapters IV and V of that work Darwin set out to explain the origin of human morality in order to show that there was no absolute gap between man and animals. Darwin sought to show how a refined moral sense, or conscience, could have developed through a natural evolutionary process that began with social instincts rooted in our nature as social animals.\n\nNot long after the publication of Darwin's \"The Descent of Man\", evolutionary ethics took a very different—and far more dubious—turn in the form of Social Darwinism. Leading Social Darwinists such as Herbert Spencer and William Graham Sumner sought to apply the lessons of biological evolution to social and political life. Just as in nature, they claimed, progress occurs through a ruthless process of competitive struggle and \"survival of the fittest,\" so human progress will occur only if government allows unrestricted business competition and makes no effort to protect the \"weak\" or \"unfit\" by means of social welfare laws. Critics such as Thomas Henry Huxley, G. E. Moore, William James, and John Dewey roundly criticized such attempts to draw ethical and political lessons from Darwinism, and by the early decades of the twentieth century Social Darwinism was widely viewed as discredited.\n\nThe modern revival of evolutionary ethics owes much to E. O. Wilson's 1975 book, \"Sociobiology: The New Synthesis\". In that work, Wilson argues that there is a genetic basis for a wide variety of human and nonhuman social behaviors. In recent decades, evolutionary ethics has become a lively topic of debate in both scientific and philosophical circles.\n\nThe most widely accepted form of evolutionary ethics is descriptive evolutionary ethics. Descriptive evolutionary ethics seeks to explain various kinds of moral phenomena wholly or partly in genetic terms. Ethical topics addressed include altruistic behaviors, an innate sense of fairness, a capacity for normative guidance, feelings of kindness or love, self-sacrifice, incest-avoidance, parental care, in-group loyalty, monogamy, feelings related to competitiveness and retribution, moral \"cheating,\" and hypocrisy.\n\nA key issue in evolutionary psychology has been how altruistic feelings and behaviors could have evolved, in both humans and nonhumans, when the process of natural selection is based on the multiplication over time only of those genes that adapt better to changes in the environment of the species. Theories addressing this have included kin selection, group selection, and reciprocal altruism (both direct and indirect, and on a society-wide scale). Descriptive evolutionary ethicists have also debated whether various types of moral phenomena should be seen as adaptations which have evolved because of their direct adaptive benefits, or spin-offs that evolved as side-effects of adaptive behaviors.\n\nNormative evolutionary ethics is the most controversial branch of evolutionary ethics. Normative evolutionary ethics aims at defining which acts are right or wrong, and which things are good or bad, in evolutionary terms. It is not merely \"describing\", but it is \"prescribing\" goals, values and obligations. Social Darwinism, discussed above, is the most historically influential version of normative evolutionary ethics. As philosopher G. E. Moore famously argued, many early versions of normative evolutionary ethics seemed to commit a logical mistake that Moore dubbed the \"naturalistic fallacy\". This was the mistake of defining a normative property, such as goodness, in terms of some non-normative, naturalistic property, such as pleasure or survival.\n\nMore sophisticated forms of normative evolutionary ethics need not commit either the naturalistic fallacy or the is-ought fallacy. But all varieties of normative evolutionary ethics face the difficult challenge of explaining how evolutionary facts can have normative authority for rational agents. \"Regardless of why one has a given trait, the question for a rational agent is always: is it right for me to exercise it, or should I instead renounce and resist it as far as I am able?\"\n\nEvolutionary theory may not be able to tell us what is morally right or wrong, but it might be able to illuminate our use of moral language, or to cast doubt on the existence of objective moral facts or the possibility of moral knowledge. Evolutionary ethicists such as Michael Ruse, E. O. Wilson, Richard Joyce, and Sharon Street have defended such claims.\n\nSome philosophers who support evolutionary meta-ethics use it to undermine views of human well-being that rely upon Aristotelian teleology, or other goal-directed accounts of human flourishing. A number of thinkers have appealed to evolutionary theory in an attempt to debunk moral realism or support moral skepticism. Sharon Street is one prominent ethicist who argues that evolutionary psychology undercuts moral realism. According to Street, human moral decision-making is \"thoroughly saturated\" with evolutionary influences. Natural selection, she argues, would have rewarded moral dispositions that increased fitness, not ones that track moral truths, should they exist. It would be a remarkable and unlikely coincidence if \"morally blind\" ethical traits aimed solely at survival and reproduction aligned closely with independent moral truths. So we cannot be confident that our moral beliefs accurately track objective moral truth. Consequently, realism forces us to embrace moral skepticism. Such skepticism, Street claims, is implausible. So we should reject realism and instead embrace some antirealist view that allows for rationally justified moral beliefs.\n\nDefenders of moral realism have offered two sorts of replies. One is to deny that evolved moral responses would likely diverge sharply from moral truth. According to David Copp, for example, evolution would favor moral responses that promote social peace, harmony, and cooperation. But such qualities are precisely those that lie at the core of any plausible theory of objective moral truth. So Street's alleged \"dilemma\"—deny evolution or embrace moral skepticism—is a false choice.\n\nA second response to Street is to deny that morality is as \"saturated\" with evolutionary influences as Street claims. William Fitzpatrick, for instance, argues that \"[e]ven if there is significant evolutionary influence on the content of many of our moral beliefs, it remains possible that many of our moral beliefs are arrived at partly (or in some cases wholly) through autonomous moral reflection and reasoning, just as with our mathematical, scientific and philosophical beliefs.\" The wide variability of moral codes, both across cultures and historical time periods, is difficult to explain if morality is as pervasively shaped by genetic factors as Street claims.\n\nAnother common argument evolutionary ethicists use to debunk moral realism is to claim that the success of evolutionary psychology in explaining human ethical responses makes the notion of moral truth \"explanatorily superfluous.\" If we can fully explain, for example, why parents naturally love and care for their children in purely evolutionary terms, there is no need to invoke any \"spooky\" realist moral truths to do any explanatory work. Thus, for reasons of theoretical simplicity we should not posit the existence of such truths and, instead, should explain the widely held belief in objective moral truth as \"an illusion fobbed off on us by our genes in order to get us to cooperate with one another (so that our genes survive).\"\n\nHere again the central question is whether the influence of evolution on morality is as pervasive as the critics of moral realism claim. If, as seems likely, there are important aspects of morality that cannot be explained in genetic terms, appeals to moral truth may not be explanatory fifth-wheels.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54612529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54612529", "title": "Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition", "text": "Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition\n\nFrozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition is a book by Owen Beattie and John Geiger, first published in 1987 by Bloomsbury Publishing. The book focuses on the dramatic events surrounding the Franklin Expedition of 1845-1848, led by Sir John Franklin, as well as the scientific work and forensic testing on the bodies of three perfectly preserved Victorian seamen 138 years after their deaths, solving the mysteries of the Franklin Expedition. In 2004, the authors substantially revised the book, adding an Epilogue and altering and updating the text. Margaret Atwood wrote an introduction. In 2017, the authors added a new Afterword to the Canadian edition, and a new Foreword by Wade Davis was added.\n\n\"Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition\" has two parts, each covering a certain aspect of the Franklin Expedition. Part One focuses on the history of the expedition and the circumstances that led to its disastrous result, based on the findings of Owen Beattie and his team. On 19 May 1845, Sir John Franklin and a crew of 128 men, along with the HMS Terror and HMS Erebus, set sail from Greenhithe, England in search of the Northwest Passage. The Northwest Passage is a shipping route through the Arctic archipelago to the Pacific Ocean and was very sought after by the Admiralty and many sailors, due to its economic value as it was a short route connecting the Atlantic ocean and the Pacific ocean. In an effort to traverse the passage, the two ships became icebound on the coast of King William Island in the Canadian Arctic and the entire expedition was lost with only fragmentary evidence that gave clues to the fate of Franklin and his men. In 1981, Owen Beattie, an associate Professor of Anthropology at the University of Alberta, led a team of scientists to King William Island where they planned to retrace the steps of dying Franklin crewmen 133 years before. Beattie and his team successfully discovered fragmentary remains such as human bones of Franklin crewmen and through scientific analysis, had found cut marks on the bones, corroborating past Inuit accounts of cannibalism being practised among the dying Franklin crewmen. Further forensic analysis on the bones also led to the discovery of high lead levels, which led to the theory that the Franklin crewmen had succumbed to lead poisoning. The discovery of lead in the bones would lead Beattie and his team to Beechey Island to exhume the graves of three Franklin crewmen to determine the origins of lead in the expedition and the effect it had on the crewmen.\n\nPart Two of the book focuses on the exhumation of the three graves on Beechey Island and the autopsies performed on the exhumed bodies of the crewmen to further determine the cause of death. Each grave included a headstone which provided important details such as name, age and year of death and the graves were of Petty Officer John Torrington, Able-bodied Seaman John Hartnell and Royal Marine William Braine. Beattie had obtained exhumation and reburial permits from the government of the Northwest Territories, notification of permission from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and clearance from the Chief Medical Officer. In the book, Beattie and Geiger provide extensive details on the investigation and autopsy work along with photographs of the bodies and the gravesite for later restoration. After careful exhumation, the bodies were shown to be remarkably well preserved, due to the surrounding permafrost, allowing for testing on preserved tissue. The autopsies determined that tuberculosis, scurvy and lead poisoning were large factors in the deaths of these men. Near the gravesite, Beattie had discovered a pile of tin cans, which was the storage for food on the Franklin expedition. Through forensic testing, the lead soldering found on the cans matched the lead found in the bodies, determining that lead from the cans had contaminated the food supply and caused the deaths of many in the Franklin expedition. There is a portion of the book in which Beattie and Geiger use the evidence to theoretically reconstruct the final hours of the three Franklin crewmen in a way they believe may have happened as well as theoretical descriptions of how the burial processes transpired on Beechey Island in 1846.\n\n\"Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition\" became a bestseller in the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany and was published in seven countries. Roy Herbert of \"New Scientist\" states \"The account of the Franklin voyage and its aftermath and then the account of the recent exhumations and autopsies- are enthralling\". Peter Gorner of the \"Chicago Tribune\" described it as \"Chilling...The scientists' exhumations, autopsies and reburials-replete with haunting photos- will keep you up nights turning pages\". Jacket blurbs were provided by Margaret Atwood, who described the research as \"A remarkable piece of forensic deduction.\", and by William S. Burroughs who called the book \"A cautionary tale of scholarly merit.\"\n\n\"Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition\" has inspired a number of writers, including Margaret Atwood in her short story \"The Age of Lead\" from Wilderness Tips and Mordecai Richler in his novel Solomon Gursky Was Here. \n"}
{"id": "53836723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53836723", "title": "Geoff Manning", "text": "Geoff Manning\n\nGeoffrey Haydon Manning (1926 – 12 September 2018) was an Australian author and historian, commonly known as Geoff Manning, known particularly for his books on South Australian placenames: first edition \"Romance of Place Names of South Australia\" 1986 followed by \"Manning's Place Names of South Australia\" 1990 and his final illustrated edition of 1,400 pages, \"The Place Names Of Our Land: A South Australian Anthology\".\n\nManning was born in Waikerie, South Australia, a son of carpenter Richard Baker Manning (1896–1936) and his wife Grace Maud Manning, née Hein (1901– ).\n\nHe was employed by the Savings Bank of South Australia until his retirement in 1982, since when he has written on local history.\nHis fully indexed work on South Australian placenames has been digitized by the State Library of South Australia and is, with his collection of significant articles from South Australian newspapers freely available on-line. His works on South Australian placenames contains much information supplemental to, and correcting, the much earlier \"Nomenclature of South Australia\" (1908) by Rodney Cockburn (1877–1932) and \"What's in a Name\", a revised edition by his son Stewart Cockburn.\n\nHaydon R. Manning, political scientist of Flinders University, is a son.\n\n"}
{"id": "5596127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5596127", "title": "Gonfalon", "text": "Gonfalon\n\nThe gonfalon, gonfanon, gonfalone (from the early Italian \"confalone\") is a type of heraldic flag or banner, often pointed, swallow-tailed, or with several streamers, and suspended from a crossbar in an identical manner to the ancient Roman vexillum. It was first adopted by Italian medieval communes, and later, by local Guilds, Corporations and Districts. The difference between a gonfanon with long tails and a standard is that a gonfanon displays the device on the non-tailed area, and the standard displays badges down the whole length of the flag.\n\nA gonfalon can include a badge or coat of arms, or decoration. Today, every Italian comune (municipality) has a gonfalon sporting its coat of arms. The gonfalon has long been used for ecclesiastical ceremonies and processions. The papal \"ombrellino\", a symbol of the pope, is often mistakenly called \"gonfalone\" by the Italians because the pope's ceremonial umbrella was often depicted on the banner.\n\n\"Gonfalone\" was originally the name given to a neighbourhood meeting in medieval Florence, each neighbourhood having its own flag and coat of arms, leading to the word Gonfalone eventually becoming associated with the flag.\n\nGonfalons are also used in some university ceremonies, such as those at The College of New Jersey, University of Chicago,\nRowan University, Rutgers University, Princeton University, University of Toronto, Loyola University New Orleans and the University of St. Thomas.\n\nA Gonfalon of State (Dutch: \"Rijksvaandel\" or \"Rijksbanier\") is part of the Regalia of the Netherlands. The banner is made of silk and it has been painted with the souvereign's coat of arms as they were in the 19th. century. The Gonfalon of State is only used when a new king or queen is sworn in.\n\nA picture of a gonfalon is itself a heraldic charge in the coat of arms of the Counts Palatine of Tübingen and their cadet branches.\n\nGonfalons had great significance as Christian religious objects in Europe during the Medieval period,  especially in central Italy. These religious objects consisted of a cloth, usually of canvas but occasionally of silk, supported by a wooden frame with a T-shaped support on the back, and a long pole to hold up the banner during ceremonies and processions. The banners were painted with tempera or oil paints, sometimes on both sides. Images on the gonfalons included the patron saints of cities, villages, confraternities or guilds, the Virgin and Child, Jesus Christ, God the Father, plague saints, and the Virgin Mary as Queen of Heaven, Mediatrix, Theotokos, or Madonna of Mercy. Because these banners were often associated with a particular group, highly unusual and individual iconography could appear.\n\nThese gonfalons were often commissioned and kept by confraternities, lay religious groups who gathered together for devotional purposes such as the singing of hymns \"(laudae)\", the performance of charitable works, or flagellation. The banners would be either displayed on the wall of the oratory or packed away until they were needed for their primary use, religious processions. During processions, the banner would be carried on its pole by members of the confraternity. This devotional act of carrying the banner in procession was believed to be a holy act of worship, and it was hoped that the act would gain divine favour from God, Jesus, Mary, and the saints portrayed on the banner. From the thirteenth to the sixteenth centuries, plague banners were produced and carried in processions as a way to plead for divine intercession to prevent or cure the plague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10283540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10283540", "title": "Helen Cam", "text": "Helen Cam\n\nHelen Maud Cam, , FRHistS (22 August 1885 – 9 February 1968) was an English historian of the Middle Ages\n\nCam was born at Abingdon, Berkshire (now Oxfordshire). Educated at home by her father William Herbert Cam, the headmaster of Abingdon School, she did her undergraduate degree at Royal Holloway College gaining a First in History there, and later an MA in Anglo-Saxon and Frankish studies at the University of London, after a fellowship year at Bryn Mawr College This degree led to her first book, \"Local Government in Francia and England, 768–1034\" (1912).\n\nAfter teaching at Cheltenham Ladies' College and Royal Holloway, she became a fellow of Girton College, Cambridge in 1921. In 1948 she took up the Zemurray Radcliffe Professorship at Harvard, a position she held until her retirement in 1954.\n\nCam's focus was on local administration, as opposed to the constitutional and legal history of the dominant historians of the age, Stubbs and Maitland. Though an admirer of both, she greatly expanded on and revised the work of these men. Her work was of great scholarly value, but she was also able to write successfully for a wider audience, illustrated best by her \"England before Elizabeth\" (1950). She also had an interest in historical fiction, expressed in \"Historical Novels\" (1961). She strongly resented the whitewashing of particular historical figures, such as Richard III.\n\nIn 1945 she was elected to the British Academy, the third woman to be elected to the fellowship, and in the same year she became the first woman to deliver the Raleigh Lecture there. Cam was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1950. She received honorary doctorates from Smith College, Mount Holyoke College, the University of North Carolina, and Oxford. She acted as vice-president both of the Selden Society and of the Royal Historical Society. In 1957 she was appointed CBE.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7845163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7845163", "title": "Henock Trouillot", "text": "Henock Trouillot\n\nHenock Trouillot (1923 - 1988) was a Haitian historian, playwright, and novelist. He wrote historical and sociological books, such as:\n\n\nHe was the uncle of Michel-Rolph Trouillot, the anthropologist and historical theorist.\n"}
{"id": "3977310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977310", "title": "Historic recurrence", "text": "Historic recurrence\n\nHistoric recurrence is the repetition of similar events in history. The concept of historic recurrence has variously been applied to the overall history of the world (e.g., to the rises and falls of empires), to repetitive patterns in the history of a given polity, and to any two specific events which bear a striking similarity. Hypothetically, in the extreme, the concept of historic recurrence assumes the form of the Doctrine of Eternal Recurrence, which has been written about in various forms since antiquity and was described in the 19th century by Heinrich Heine and Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nNevertheless, while it is often remarked that \"History repeats itself\", in cycles of less than cosmological duration this cannot be strictly true. In this interpretation of recurrence, as opposed perhaps to the Nietzschean interpretation, there is no metaphysics. Recurrences take place due to ascertainable circumstances and chains of causality. An example of the mechanism is the ubiquitous phenomenon of multiple independent discovery in science and technology, which has been described by Robert K. Merton and Harriet Zuckerman.\n\nG.W. Trompf, in his book \"The Idea of Historical Recurrence in Western Thought\", traces historically recurring patterns of political thought and behavior in the west since antiquity. If history has lessons to impart, they are to be found \"par excellence\" in such recurring patterns.\n\nHistoric recurrences of the \"striking-similarity\" type can sometimes induce a sense of \"convergence\", \"resonance\" or \"déjà vu\". \n\nPrior to the theory of historic recurrence that was offered by Polybius, a Greek Hellenistic historian (ca 200 – ca 118 BCE), ancient western thinkers who had thought about recurrence had largely been concerned with cosmological rather than historic recurrence. Western philosophers and historians who have discussed various concepts of historic recurrence include Polybius, the Greek historian and rhetorician Dionysius of Halicarnassus (c. 60 BCE – after 7 BCE), Luke the Evangelist, Niccolò Machiavelli (1469–1527), Giambattista Vico (1668–1744), Arnold J. Toynbee (1889–1975). An eastern concept that bears a kinship to western concepts of historic recurrence is the Chinese concept of the Mandate of Heaven, by which an unjust ruler will lose the support of Heaven and be overthrown.\n\nG.W. Trompf describes various historic paradigms of historic recurrence, including paradigms that view types of large-scale historic phenomena variously as \"cyclical\"; \"fluctuant\"; \"reciprocal\"; \"re-enacted\"; or \"revived\". He also notes \"[t]he view proceeding from a belief in \"the uniformity of human nature\" [Trompf's emphasis]. It holds that because human nature does not change, the same sort of events can recur at any time.\" \"Other minor cases of recurrence thinking,\" he writes, \"include the isolation of any two specific events which bear a very \"striking similarity\" [his emphasis], and the preoccupation with \"parallelism\" [his emphasis], that is, with resemblances, both general and precise, between separate sets of historical phenomena.\"\n\nG.W. Trompf notes that most western concepts of historic recurrence imply that \"the past teaches lessons for... future action\"—that \"the same... sorts of events which have happened before... will recur...\" One such recurring theme was early offered by Poseidonius (a Greek polymath, native to Apamea, Syria; ca 135–51 BCE), who argued that dissipation of the old Roman virtues had followed the removal of the Carthaginian challenge to Rome's supremacy in the Mediterranean world. The theme that civilizations flourish or fail according to their responses to the human and environmental challenges that they face, would be picked up two thousand years later by Toynbee. Dionysius of Halicarnassus (c. 60 BCEafter 7 BCE), while praising Rome at the expense of her predecessors—Assyria, Media, Persia, and Macedonia—anticipated Rome's eventual decay. He thus implied the idea of recurring decay in the history of world empires—an idea that was to be developed by the Greek historian Diodorus Siculus (1st century BCE) and by Pompeius Trogus, a 1st-century BCE Roman historian from a Celtic tribe in Gallia Narbonensis.\n\nBy the late 5th century, Zosimus (also called \"Zosimus the Historian\"; fl. 490s–510s: a Byzantine historian who lived in Constantinople) could see the writing on the Roman wall, and asserted that empires fell due to internal disunity. He gave examples from the histories of Greece and Macedonia. In the case of each empire, growth had resulted from consolidation against an external enemy; Rome herself, in response to Hannibal's threat posed at Cannae, had risen to great-power status within a mere five decades. With Rome's world dominion, however, aristocracy had been supplanted by a monarchy, which in turn tended to decay into tyranny; after Augustus Caesar, good rulers had alternated with tyrannical ones. The Roman Empire, in its western and eastern sectors, had become a contending ground between contestants for power, while outside powers acquired an advantage. In Rome's decay, Zosimus saw history repeating itself in its general movements.\n\nThe ancients developed an enduring metaphor for a polity's evolution: they drew an analogy between an individual human's life cycle, and developments undergone by a body politic. This metaphor was offered, in varying iterations, by Cicero (106–43 BCE), Seneca (c. 1 BCE – 65 CE), Florus (c. 74 CE – ca 130 CE), and Ammianus Marcellinus (between 325 and 330 CE – after 391 CE). This social-organism metaphor would recur centuries later in the works of Émile Durkheim (1858–1917) and Herbert Spencer (1820–1903).\n\nNiccolò Machiavelli, about to analyze the vicissitudes of Florentine and Italian politics between 1434 and 1494, described recurrent oscillations between \"order\" and \"disorder\" within states:\n\nMachiavelli accounts for this oscillation by arguing that \"virtù\" (valor and political effectiveness) produces peace, peace brings idleness (\"ozio\"), idleness disorder, and disorder \"rovina\" (ruin). In turn, from \"rovina\" springs order, from order \"virtù\", and from this, glory and good fortune. Machiavelli, as had the ancient Greek historian Thucydides, saw human nature as remarkably stable—steady enough for the formulation of rules of political behavior. Machiavelli wrote in his \"Discorsi\":\n\nIn 1377 the Islamic scholar Ibn Khaldun observed that new dynasties achieve social cohesion and expand to the limit, but then become sedentary, wedded to luxury, enslaved by their desires. Joshua S Goldstein suggests that empires, analogously to an individual's midlife crisis, experience a political midlife crisis: after a period of expansion in which all earlier goals are realized, overconfidence sets in, and regimes are then likely to attack or threaten their nearest rival; Goldstein cites four examples: the British Empire and the Crimean War; the German Second Reich and World War I; the USSR and the Cuban Missile Crisis; the United States and the Vietnam War. Suggestions that the European Union is suffering a political midlife crisis have been put forward by Gideon Rachman (2010), Roland Benedikter (2014), and Natalie Nougayrede (2017). \n\nDavid Hackett Fischer has identified four waves in European history, each of some 150-200 years' duration. Each wave begins with prosperity, leading to inflation, inequality, rebellion and war, and resolving in a long period of equilibrium. For example, 18th-century inflation led to the Napoleonic wars and later the Victorian equilibrium.\n\nSir Arthur Keith's theory of a species-wide amity-enmity complex suggests that human conscience evolved as a duality: people are driven to protect members of their in-group, and to hate and fight enemies who belong to an out-group. Thus an endless, useless cycle of \"ad hoc\" \"isms\" arises.\n\nOne of the recurrence patterns identified by G.W. Trompf involves \"the isolation of any two specific events which bear a very \"striking similarity\"\". The Spanish-American philosopher George Santayana observed that \"Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.\" Karl Marx, having in mind the respective coups d'état of Napoleon I (1799) and his nephew Napoleon III (1851), wrote acerbically in 1852: \"Hegel remarks somewhere that all facts and personages of great importance in world history occur, as it were, twice. He forgot to add: the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce.\" \n\nHowever, Poland's Adam Michnik believes that history is not just about the past because it is constantly recurring, and not as farce, as Marx had it, but as itself: \"The world\", writes Michnik, \"is full of inquisitors and heretics, liars and those lied to, terrorists and the terrorized. There is still someone dying at Thermopylae, someone drinking a glass of hemlock, someone crossing the Rubicon, someone drawing up a proscription list.\" Poland's Catholic Primate, Stanisław Szczepanowski, is murdered by his former friend, King Bolesław the Bold (1079), and England's Catholic Primate, Thomas Becket, is murdered at the behest of his former friend, King Henry II (1170); Chinese Emperor Kublai Khan's attempted conquest of Japan (1274, 1281) is frustrated by typhoons (the original \"kamikaze\", \"divine wind\"), and Spanish King Philip II's attempted conquest of England (1588) is frustrated by a hurricane; Hernán Cortes's fateful 1519 entry into Mexico's Aztec Empire is reputedly facilitated by the natives' identification of him with their god Quetzalcoatl, who had been predicted to return that very year, and English Captain James Cook's fateful entry into Hawaii (1778), during the annual Makahiki festival honoring the fertility and peace god Lono, is reputedly facilitated by the natives' identification of Cook with Lono, who had left Hawaii, promising to return on a floating island, evoked by Cook's ship under full sail. \n\nIn 1812 French Emperor Napoleon—born a Corsican outsider—unprepared for an extended winter campaign, invades the Russian Empire, precipitating the fall of the French Empire; and in 1941 German \"Führer\" Adolf Hitler—born an Austrian outsider—unprepared for an extended winter campaign—invades the Russian Empire's Soviet successor ruled by Joseph Stalin—born a Georgian outsider—precipitating the fall of the German Thousand-Year Reich.\n\nPolities ignore Jan Bloch's 1898 warnings of the railroad-mobilized, industrialized, stalemated, attritional total war, World War I, that is on the way and will destroy an appreciable part of mankind; and polities ignore geologists', oceanographers', atmospheric scientists', biologists', and climatologists' warnings of the climate-change tipping point that is on course to destroy all of mankind.\nBritish novelist Martin Amis observes that recurring patterns of imperial ascendance-and-decline are mirrored in the novel: novels seem to follow the political power. In the 19th century, when Britain was ascendant on the planet, British novels were huge and tried to express what the whole society was. British hegemony waned with World War II and ended after the war. The British novel was then some 225 pages long and centered on narrower subjects such as career setbacks or marriage setbacks: the British novel's \"great tradition\" increasingly looked depleted. Ascendance had passed to the United States, and Americans such as Saul Bellow, Norman Mailer, Philip Roth, and John Updike began writing huge novels.\n\n"}
{"id": "25531320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25531320", "title": "History of pound sterling in Oceania", "text": "History of pound sterling in Oceania\n\nThe pound sterling was the currency of many, but not all parts of the British Empire. This article looks at the history of the pound sterling in the Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific region.\n\nThe British victory at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815 heralded the beginning of a new world order in which Britain would be the supreme world power for the next one hundred years. At the time of Waterloo, the British Empire consisted of the New World territories in the West Indies and North America which had been retained following the loss of the Thirteen Colonies. In addition to this, there was the penal colony of New South Wales, the Rock of Gibraltar at the entrance to the Mediterranean Sea, and the territories controlled by the British East India Company. Victory in the Napoleonic Wars brought spoils to Britain which added more territories such as Malta, British Guiana, and Mauritius to the empire. It was the beginning of a golden era for Britain, and the new Royal Mint at Tower Hill coined a new gold sovereign in 1817. At the same time, the Spanish Empire was in decline with revolutions underway in the New World. The silver Spanish pieces of eight that had formed the staple international currency for nearly four hundred years were mostly minted at the New World mints at Potosí, Mexico, and Lima. The supplies of these silver dollars were cut off due to revolutionary wars, and since Britain had formally adopted a successful gold specie standard in 1821, the British government decided in 1825 to introduce the sterling coinage in all of its colonies. An imperial order-in-council was issued to set ratings for the sterling coinage against the already-circulating Spanish and other foreign coins, for the purposes of facilitating the transition to sterling.\n\nWhile this measure was remarkably unsuccessful in the British North American colonies and initially in some of the British West Indies, the situation in New South Wales was different due to the absence of any already fully entrenched monetary system. As such, the British sterling currency was adopted in New South Wales with relative ease, and as this region of British influence expanded over the course of the nineteenth century to incorporate the rest of the Australian continent, New Zealand and a large number of Pacific islands, the British sterling currency followed.\n\nFrom the latter half of the 19th century until the outbreak of the First World War, a monetary union, based on the British gold sovereign existed in a part of the British Empire. This sterling part of the British Empire mainly consisted of Australia, New Zealand, the British Islands in the Pacific, British Southern Africa, British West Africa, the British West Indies, Gibraltar, Malta, and the South Atlantic territories. It had been the plan of the British government in 1825 to have sterling coinage circulating in all of the British colonies. But, by the 1860s, the British government had given up trying to impose sterling coinage in territories such as Canada, Newfoundland, British India, and Hong Kong against resistance from existing entrenched practices, just as the British East India Company has similarly given up trying to impose the rupee on the Straits Settlements. Eventually even India and the Straits Settlements adopted a sterling exchange standard, leaving only Canada, Newfoundland, British Honduras, and Hong Kong totally outside the sterling system.\n\nThis sterling monetary union existed throughout much the same period that the Latin Monetary Union existed, and in both cases, the First World War was the major factor that signalled the end of the union. In both cases, the union was maintained by virtue of the gold specie standard. During the period of monetary union, a standard issue of sterling coinage, minted at the Royal Mint at Tower Hill, London circulated in the United Kingdom, Australia and its dependencies such as Papua New Guinea, New Zealand and its dependencies such as Western Samoa, as well as in Fiji and the British Western Pacific Territories. As regards paper money, banknotes were issued by banks in England, Scotland, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nIn 1910, Australia introduced its own coinage in the likeness of sterling coinage. It was much the same as the United Kingdom's coinage, differing mainly in the use of distinctive Australian symbols on the reverse. At the same time, the law prohibited Australian banks from issuing banknotes, and such authority was reserved for the newly formed Commonwealth Bank. This left an interesting situation in which Australian private banknotes were limited to circulation in New Zealand, and such Australian notes were marked with the words New Zealand. This action by Australia in issuing its own national variety of sterling coinage had no practical effect on the monetary union as such. Initially, these Australian coins were minted at the Royal Mint at Tower Hill, London, despite the fact that there were three Royal Mint branches operating in Australia at that time. The reason was that these Australian branch mints, in Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth, only had the facilities to mint gold sovereigns. However, by 1916, the Australian varieties of sterling coinage were being minted locally.\n\nWith the suspension of gold coin payouts on the outbreak of the First World War, the binding factor was removed and paper money in the respective territories became unanchored and hence free to float, to the extent that the common coinage would permit. In the case of Australia, there was no complication because distinct Australian coins already existed. In the case of New Zealand and Fiji, the situation could have potentially proved to be problematic, but the issue didn't arise until the Great Depression.\n\nThe Great Depression was the catalyst that forced more dramatic shifts in the exchange rates between the various pound units, and by 1934 both New Zealand and Fiji began to issue their own varieties of the sterling coinage.\n\nAustralia returned to the gold standard in 1925 in conjunction with the United Kingdom and South Africa. As in the case of the United Kingdom, there was no return to a gold specie standard, but rather the introduction of a gold bullion standard. This once again formally locked the pound in Australia to parity with the pound in the United Kingdom. During the period between 1914 and 1925, the telegraphic money transfers between London and Australia had deviated somewhat from parity, but at that time, it was merely seen as a temporary hitch due to the emergency and the suspension of the gold standard. Nobody considered the Australian pound as such to be a separate currency from sterling. \nHowever, in 1929 the Great Depression struck, and the raw producing nations in the southern hemisphere, such as Argentina, Chile, Australia, and New Zealand were the first to feel the effects. The Australian banks that controlled the exchanges with London began to sell the Australian unit at a discount in order to increase the competitiveness of their exports to London. The gold standard in Australia was simultaneously abandoned and the Australian pound was now at a 25% discount to the pound sterling.\n\nWhen the United Kingdom itself then abandoned the gold standard in 1931, this opened up certain questions for the first time. What does an Australian pound mean if it is not connected to gold? It was decided after 1931 to formally peg the Australian pound at a fixed 25% discount to the pound sterling and to define it as just that. Hence, the Australian pound maintained its close connection with the pound sterling and when the Second World War broke out in 1939, Australia joined the sterling area which was an emergency wartime measure designed to protect the pound sterling's external value, principally against the US dollar.\n\nIn 1966, the Australian pound was decimalized at a rate of two new Australian dollars. When the pound sterling was devalued in 1967, the Australian unit did not follow suit but continued to peg to sterling at a new fixed rate. In 1971 Australia changed its peg to the US dollar and in June 1972, the sterling area as an exchange control area was shrunk to include only the British Isles. In September 1972, Australia responded by amending its own exchange control legislation accordingly, and with the floating of the British unit, which began in June 1972, all former connection between the two currencies had effectively come to an end.\n\nUnlike Australia, in the critical period between 1914 and the Great Depression, New Zealand did not have anything that corresponded to a central bank or a monetary authority. New Zealand's link to the pound sterling was purely through the gold specie standard, and when the gold specie standard was suspended at the outbreak of the First World War, the linkage was based on nothing other than existing practice. The banks controlled telegraphic transfers between New Zealand and London, and so the exchange rate was entirely in their hands. New Zealand was now effectively on a sterling exchange standard, controlled by the largely Australian trading banks, and this sterling exchange standard became a gold exchange standard for the period between 1925 and 1931 when the United Kingdom was on a gold bullion standard. \n\nIt wasn't however until the Great Depression that the Australian banks created any substantial divergence from the traditional one-to-one parity between the London pound and the New Zealand pound. Australian and New Zealand raw exports to London were badly hit by the depression, and in an attempt to sustain demand, the Australian banks decided to sell the New Zealand pound at a 9% discount, taking the exchange rate to 110 New Zealand pounds to 100 pounds sterling by 1931. As this was new territory in the history of money, the situation became somewhat confused because a state of affairs now existed in which the exchange rate between Australia and New Zealand was at par and did not correspond to their respective exchange rates with London. \nBy 1933 the situation had settled to a state of affairs in which the New Zealand pound and the Australian pound were both at a 20% discount with respect to the London pound, taking the exchange rate to New Zealand 125 pounds equaling 100 pounds sterling. New Zealand joined the sterling area in 1939 at the outbreak of the Second World War and in 1948, the New Zealand pound once again returned to parity with the pound sterling.\n\nIn 1967, New Zealand decimalised its pound into two new New Zealand dollars and later that year, when the pound sterling was devalued, New Zealand took the opportunity to realign its new dollar to parity with the Australian dollar.\n\nIn 1971, New Zealand changed its peg to the US dollar, and in 1972, just like the United Kingdom and Australia, New Zealand ended its sterling area-based exchange control laws.\n\nFrom its earliest days as a British colony, British sterling coinage circulated in Fiji, supplemented by locally produced paper money. In 1917, as a wartime emergency measure, the Fijian treasury issued paper money for Fiji in lieu of British gold sovereigns. During the Great Depression of the 1930s, Australian and New Zealand banks devalued the pound in their respective territories in order to bolster their exports to the UK. These same banks controlled the exchange rate for Fiji, and in 1933 the Fijian pound was devalued to £1.2.2 Fijian = £1 sterling in order to bring it into line with the devalued New Zealand pound, even though the New Zealand pound would very shortly devalue further to bring it into line with the devalued Australian pound. At the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, the sterling area was set up as an exchange control area for the purposes of protecting the external value of the pound sterling, principally against the US dollar. Fiji immediately joined the sterling area.\n\nWhen the pound sterling was devalued on 20 November 1967, Fiji immediately followed suit. However, over the next week, Fiji considered the adverse effects that this devaluation would have on imports to Fiji while keeping an eye on how Australia and New Zealand were going to respond to the situation. On 28 November 1967, Fiji decided to partially revalue its pound, hence resulting in a sterling exchange rate of £104.10.0 Fijian = £100 sterling. This had the effect of bringing the Fijian pound closer to its original relationship to Australian and New Zealand pounds prior to the upheavals which took place in the exchange rates at the time of the Great Depression. In 1969, the Fijian pound was replaced by the Fijian dollar at a rate of 1 Fijian pound = 2 Fijian dollars such that the new Fijian dollar was approximately equal to the new dollars in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn June 1972 the United Kingdom unilaterally ended its sterling area-based exchange control laws and floated the pound sterling. On 30 June 1972, Fiji enacted with similar legislation, thus ending any formal relationship between the British and the Fijian units.\n\nThe British governor on Fiji also had responsibility for other groups of Pacific islands in his capacity as High Commissioner for the Western Pacific. This jurisdiction included the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, the Anglo-French condominium known as the New Hebrides, Nauru, the Pitcairn Islands, the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, and the Kingdom of Tonga. In the mid-1930s there was confusion on these territories as to whether or not the pound unit of account represented a pound sterling or an Australian pound. Clarification was requested and it was decided that all sterling accounts in these territories, with the exception of the Pitcairn Islands, should be taken to mean the Australian pound. In the case of the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, this was confirmed by King's regulations in 1935. Territories under direct Australian jurisdiction such as Papua New Guinea also used the Australian pound, while territories under New Zealand jurisdiction, such as Western Samoa and the Cook Islands, as well as the Pitcairn Islands used the New Zealand pound. Hence there were now a total of three different pound units in use in the Australasian and Pacific region, none of them being equal to the pound sterling. There was the Australian pound, the Fijian pound, and the New Zealand pound. However, the New Zealand pound, as stated above, did return to parity with the pound sterling in 1948.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37388677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37388677", "title": "Industrial Heritage Association of Ireland", "text": "Industrial Heritage Association of Ireland\n\nThe Industrial Heritage Association of Ireland (IHAI) is an all-Ireland body set up in 1996 to foster a greater understanding and appreciation of sites, monuments and items of machinery that together constitute Ireland's industrial heritage and to encourage its protection by the relevant statutory authorities. The IHAI functions as a link between government organisations, NGOs, and individuals working in the field of industrial heritage. By providing opportunities for open discussion and debate the IHAI advances awareness, enjoyment, and conservation of the many facets of industrial heritage.\n\nOne of the main objectives of the IHAI is the establishment of a national inventory of industrial sites. To this end, the Heritage Council assisted by publishing \"Recording and Conserving Ireland’s Industrial Heritage: An Introductory Guide to help public bodies, professionals, voluntary organisations and site owners in the identification, recording, conservation and protection of industrial sites\".\n\nThe IHAI engages with the public through conferences, workshops, field tours, lectures and publications, special-interest societies, as well as government and non-governmental organisations. Their conferences have covered a range of topics and the papers presented have been published by the IHAI, the most recent being \"Archaeology of Irish Industry: Recent Excavations\" (2009). Other titles include \"The Industrial Heritage of North East Ireland\" (2002); \"Power from Steam\" (1998); and \"Taking Stock of Ireland’s Industrial Heritage\" (1998).\n\nThe IHAI produces a Newsletter three times a year chronicling the activities of the IHAI and the industrial heritage sector in Ireland generally. Past newsletters are available to the general public on the IHAI website and are a source of information on publications relating to aspects of Ireland’s industrial heritage. \n\n"}
{"id": "30983631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983631", "title": "Institute for Study of the Jewish Question", "text": "Institute for Study of the Jewish Question\n\nThe Institute for Study of the Jewish Question or Institute for Research of the Jewish Question (\"Institut zur Erforschung der Judenfrage\") was a Nazi Party-political institution, founded in April 1939. Conceived as a branch of a projected elite university of the party under the direction of Alfred Rosenberg, it officially opened in Frankfurt am Main in March 1941, during the Second World War, and remained in existence until the end of the war, in 1945.\n\nIt should not be confused either with Goebbels's propaganda ministry, the ' (Institute for the Study of the Jewish Question), later renamed to ' (Anti-Semitic Action) and then again to \"\" (Anti-Jewish Action). In occupied France, the \"Institut d'étude des questions juives\" (Institute for the Study of Jewish Affairs) was a propaganda institution established in Paris in 1943 by the German military command.\n\nWhen the Institute was founded, the official journal \"\"Ziel und Weg\" (i.e. \"Goal and Way\"\") of the National Socialist German Doctors' League (NSDÄB), which was led by Leonardo Conti, welcomed the new institution and demanded: \"The Half-Jew has to be treated like the Full-Jew ... so that he is no danger for the protection of the racial value of the European peoples.\"\n\nThe institute cooperated with Walter Frank's \"Reich Institute for the History of the New Germany\", especially with its \"Research Department for the Jewish question\" which was led by the demographer Dr. Friedrich Burgdörfer, who had published the pamphlet \"Are the White Nations Dying? The Future of the White and the Colored Nations in the Light of Biological Statistics\" which became the origin of the White genocide conspiracy theory.\n\nThe institute's journal \"The World-Struggle. Monthly for Global Politics, Racial Culture and the Jewish Question in all Countries\" (Der Weltkampf. Monatsschrift für Weltpolitik, völkische Kultur und die Judenfrage aller Länder) was edited by Ernst Graf zu Reventlow; contributors included Gregor Schwartz-Bostunitsch and Johann von Leers.\n\nIts effective aim was information-gathering for propaganda purposes in support of anti-Semitic policy and, later, the Holocaust. The institute became the recipient of looted books and other cultural materials from Jewish libraries and institutions in the occupied territories.\n\nThe Institute's main librarian was Dr. , a scholar of Hebrew and Jewish studies, former Roman Catholic Vicar and alumnus of the Pontifical Biblical Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "10813115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10813115", "title": "Jacob Chikuhwa", "text": "Jacob Chikuhwa\n\nDr. Jacob Wilson Chikuhwa is an author and leading political and cultural historian of Zimbabwe. Now retired and living in Sweden, he is the author of thirteen books on Zimbabwe, and is a lecturer and painter. Chikuhwa also operates the Chiedza Business Consultancy, a company based in Stockholm, Sweden which offers seminars in business management.\n\nIn 1959, Edgar Whitehead's government of Southern Rhodesia banned the ANC (African National Congress) and arrested nearly 500 leaders including one of young Jacob Chikuhwa's teachers. Shortly thereafter, the National Democratic Party against minority rule was formed and lasted less than two years. When the NDP was banned, the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) was formed and Jacob Chikuhwa was a member of the youth league involved in political activities against colonial rule.\n\nChikuhwa was arrested in 1964 for his involvement in the resistance. Following his release from detention, he escaped into Zambia and later got a scholarship to study in the former Soviet Union where he received degrees in Economics and International Relations from the Kiev Institute of National Economy in Ukraine. Dr. Chikuhwa sought political asylum in Sweden where he attended the University of Stockholm. In the mid 1970s he became the publicity secretary for ZANU in Northern Europe, establishing a monthly Journal Zimbabwe Chimurenga/Impi yeNkululeko (Zimbabwe Revolution). He returned to Zimbabwe in 1981, following decolonization, but left again in 1989 to return to Sweden.\n\nBecause of his close contact with Zimbabwean government officials dating back to his detention and time in exile, Dr. Chikuhwa published his first book on Zimbabwe in 1998. Dr. Chikuhwa was in Zimbabwe when the opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) participated in the June 2000 parliamentary election, and March 2002 presidential election, and has described being tortured by ZANU-PF officials for his MDC involvement during that period. He has since returned to Sweden where he became MDC Representative in Scandinavia and now writes full-time and lectures on Zimbabwe, in the US and Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "4078753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4078753", "title": "John Mahama", "text": "John Mahama\n\nJohn Dramani Mahama (; born 29 November 1958) is a Ghanaian politician who served as President of Ghana from 24 July 2012 to 7 January 2017. He previously served as Vice President of Ghana from 2009 to 2012, and took office as President on 24 July 2012 following the death of his predecessor, John Atta Mills. Mahama is a communication expert, historian, and writer. He was a Member of Parliament from 1997 to 2009 and Minister of Communications from 1998 to 2001. He is a member of the National Democratic Congress.\n\nMahama is the first vice president to have ascended to the presidency due to the death of his predecessor, John Atta Mills, and is the first head of state of Ghana to have been born after Ghana's independence. He was elected to serve a full term as President in the December 2012 election. He contested re-election for a second term in the 2016 election, but was defeated in the first round by New Patriotic Party candidate Nana Akufo-Addo, whom he had defeated four years prior. This makes him the first president in the history of Ghana to not have won a second term.\n\nA member of the Gonja ethnic group, Mahama hails from Bole in the Northern region. Mahama was born in Damongo in the Damango-Daboya constituency of Northern region into a political tradition dating back to the country's First Republic. His father, Emmanuel Adama Mahama, a wealthy rice farmer and teacher, was the first Member of Parliament for the West Gonja constituency and the first Regional Commissioner of the Northern Region during the First Republic under Ghana's first president, Kwame Nkrumah. Mahama's father also served as a senior presidential advisor during Ghana's Third Republic under Hilla Limann.\n\nMahama started his primary education at the Accra Newtown Experimental School (ANT1) and completed his O'levels education at Achimota School and his A'levels education at Ghana Secondary School (Tamale, Northern region).He proceeded to the University of Ghana, Legon, receiving a bachelor's degree in history in 1981 and a postgraduate diploma in communication studies in 1986. As a student, he was a member of Commonwealth Hall (Legon). He also studied at the Institute of Social Sciences in Moscow in the Soviet Union, specializing in social psychology; he obtained a postgraduate degree in 1988.\n\nAfter completing his undergraduate education, Mahama taught history at the secondary school level for a few years. Upon his return to Ghana after studying in Moscow, he worked as the Information, Culture and Research Officer at the Embassy of Japan in Accra between 1991 and 1995. From there he moved to the anti-poverty non-governmental organisation (NGO) Plan International's Ghana Country Office, where he worked as International Relations, Sponsorship Communications and Grants Manager between 1995 and 1996. In 1993, he participated in a professional training course for Overseas Public Relations Staff, organized by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Tokyo. He also participated in a management development course organized by Plan International (RESA) in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nMahama was first elected to the Parliament of Ghana in the 1996 elections to represent the Bole/Bamboi Constituency for a four-year term. In April 1997, Mahama was appointed Deputy Minister of Communications. He was promoted to the post of Minister of Communications in November 1998, serving in that post until January 2001, when the ruling National Democratic Congress (NDC) handed over power to the New Patriotic Party's government.\n\nIn 2000, Mahama was re-elected for another four-year term as the Member of Parliament for the Bole/Bamboi Constituency. He was again re-elected in 2004 for a third term. From 2001 to 2004, Mahama served as the Minority Parliamentary Spokesman for Communications. In 2002, he was appointed the Director of Communications for the NDC. That same year, he served as a member of the team of International Observers selected to monitor Zimbabwe's Parliamentary Elections. As an MP, he was a member of Standing Orders Committee as well as the Transport, Industry, Energy, Communications, Science and Technology Committee of Parliament.\n\nMahama served as the Deputy Minister of Communications between April 1997 and November 1998. During his tenure as Minister of Communications, Mahama also served as the Chairman of the National Communications Authority, in which capacity he played a key role in stabilising Ghana's telecommunications sector after it was deregulated in 1997. As a minister, he was a founding member of the Ghana AIDS Commission, a member of the implementation committee of the 2000 National Population Census and a deputy chairman of the Publicity Committee for the re-introduction of the Value Added Tax (VAT).\n\nContinuing to expand his interest and involvement in international affairs, in 2003 Mahama became a member of the Pan-African Parliament, serving as the Chairperson of the West African Caucus until 2011. He was also a member of European and Pan African Parliaments' Ad-hoc Committee on Cooperation. In 2005 he was, additionally, appointed the Minority Spokesman for Foreign Affairs. He is a member of the UNDP Advisory Committee on Conflict Resolution in Ghana.\n\nOn 7 January 2009, Mahama became the Vice-President of Ghana. He also served as the Chairman of the National Economic Management Team, the Armed Forces Council of Ghana, the Decentralisation and Implementation Committee and the Police Council of Ghana in this capacity.\n\nIn line with Ghana's constitution, Mahama became President of Ghana on 24 July 2012 on the death of his predecessor, John Atta Mills. In July 2012, he became the Ghana's first president to have served at all levels of political office (Ghanaian and Pan-African MP, Deputy Minister, Minister, Vice-President and President). He said in parliament upon being sworn in:\nThis is the saddest day in our nation's history. Tears have engulfed our nation and we are deeply saddened and distraught and I'm personally devastated, I've lost a father, I've lost a friend, I've lost a mentor and a senior comrade. Ghana is united in grief at this time for our departed president.\n\nAs a result of his elevation to the presidency, Mahama made political history by becoming the first Ghanaian head of state to have been born after Ghana's declaration of independence on 6 March 1957. The National Democratic Congress (NDC) held a Special National Delegates Congress on 30 August 2012 and endorsed President John Dramani Mahama as its 2012 presidential candidate. President Mahama, the sole candidate of the party, polled 2, 767 votes, representing 99.5% of total votes cast, to pick the slot for the party. Mahama has stated that his administration is deeply committed to continuing the Better Ghana Agenda started under President Mills.\n\nMahama won the December 2012 general election with 50.70% of the total valid votes cast and a 3% winning margin beating his nearest rival, Nana Akufo-Addo of the main opposition New Patriotic Party, who polled a close 47.74%. This was just barely enough to win the presidency without the need for a runoff. In addition, Mahama won the majority of valid votes cast in eight out of Ghana's ten administrative regions. Thirteen African Heads of State, one Prime Minister, two Vice-Presidents and 18 government delegations across the world attended his inaugural ceremony at the Black Star Square in Accra on 7 January 2013, when Mahama was sworn-in to begin his own four-year term.\n\nAfter his investiture, the opposition New Patriotic Party led by its 2012 presidential candidate Nana Akufo-Addo, running mate Dr Mahamudu Bawumia and the party chairman Jacob Otanka Obetsebi-Lamptey, challenged the election results, alleging irregularities, malpractices, omissions and violations. The petition was heard by nine justices of the Supreme Court of Ghana. After eight months of hearing, the Court on 29 August 2013 dismissed the petition by a majority opinion.\n\nMahama is one of Africa’s most-followed leaders on the social networking sites, Twitter and Facebook. In May 2013, he stated that all of West Africa is under the threat of Islamist militancy.\n\nOn 30 March 2014, he was elected to preside over ECOWAS. On 26 June 2014, he was elected Chairperson of the African Union’s (AU’s) High-Level African Trade Committee (HATC).\n\nOn 21 January 2016 on the occasion of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Mahama became co-chair of the Sustainable Development Goals Advocates group which consists of 17 eminent persons assisting the UN Secretary-General in the campaign to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that world leaders unanimously adopted in September 2015. With a mandate to support the Secretary-General in his efforts to generate momentum and commitment to achieve the SDGs by 2030, the SDG Advocates have been working to promote the universal sustainable development agenda, to raise awareness of the integrated nature of the SDGs, and to foster the engagement of new stakeholders in the implementation of these Goals.\n\nOn 9 December 2016, Mahama was defeated by the main opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo, to whom he conceded defeat earlier that day. Mahama polled 44.4% of the valid votes cast compared to Akufo-Addo's 53.5%.\n\nIn December 2016, he was part of part of the ECOWAS mediation team to resolve the post-election political impasse in The Gambia between the defeated incumbent, Yahya Jammeh and declared winner, Adam Barrow.\n\nMahama is married to Lordina Mahama (née Effah, 6 March 1963). Mahama has five children named Shafik, Shahid, Sharaf, Jesse and Farida. He is a Christian, born and raised a Presbyterian but is now a member of the Assemblies of God, Ghana by marriage. His family is multi-faith, consisting of Christians and Muslims. Being a staunch campaigner for sustainability, he has a keen interest in environmental affairs, particularly the problem of single-use plastic waste pollution in Africa, which he committed himself to addressing during his tenure as Vice President.\n\nOver the course of his career, Mahama has written for several newspapers and other publications both locally and internationally. As a Parliamentarian, Mahama wrote \"Mahama's Hammer\", a semi-regular column in a Ghanaian newspaper. His essays have also been published in the \"Daily Graphic\", \"Ebony\", \"Huffington Post\", the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\", the \"New York Times\" and \"The Root\". Additionally, he was a featured speaker at the TEDx Great Pacific Garbage Patch Conference in Santa Monica. Mahama is also a devotee of Afrobeat music, especially that of Fela Kuti. Apart from his hobby of reading, Mahama also has a passionate interest in innovation particularly the use of technology in agriculture being a farmer himself. In particular, he is interested in finding the most effective ways to improve agricultural productivity and works to encourage more young people to see farming as a viable business and not a subsistence activity. This has translated into his passion to see the Savanna Accelerated Development Authority (SADA) create new opportunities for people living in the Savanna areas of the country, which includes the three Northern Regions, and the Volta Region. Even on official assignments outside of country, Mahama likes to take advantage of opportunities to visit agricultural establishments and update himself on current trends and developments. He also takes keen interest in the opportunities for simplifying and making tasks easier with the use of information and communications technology, and considers the ICT industry one of the sectors that can play a significant role in economic transformation and job creation. He's an avid fan of motor biking and owns about 5 of them.\n\nMahama's first book, a memoir called \"My First Coup d'État and Other True Stories From the Lost Decades of Africa\", was published by Bloomsbury on 3 July 2012. The most promising son of an affluent government minister, he spends his childhood shuttling in his father's chauffeur-driven cars, from his elite boarding school Achimota School in Accra to his many homes. He recalls in its first chapter the day in 1966 when he learned of the ousting of Ghana's founding president, Kwame Nkrumah, in a military coup: \"When I look back on my life it's clear to me that this moment marked the awakening of my consciousness. It changed my life and influenced all the moments that followed.\"\n\nIt was revealed in 2016 that Mahama accepted a Ford Expedition from a construction firm bidding for a lucrative government contract in 2012, while he was serving as Vice President. The Burkinabe contractor who had previously constructed a wall at the Ghanaian Embassy in Ouagadougou was at the time looking to get a road-building contract in Ghana's Volta region; this contractor later secured the contract. Under Mahama's presidency in 2014, massive corruption was discovered at Ghana’s Savannah Accelerated Development Authority (SADA). The authority had misappropriated millions of dollars allocated to it. SADA paid GH₵32,498,000 to ACICL, a business owned by Ghana's Roland Agambire, Mahama's close confidante, to plant five million trees in the savannah zone, but could only account for about 700,000 trees. It was also discovered that SADA spent GH¢15 million on guinea fowl, but could only account for a few of the birds.In 2015 it was again discovered that the contract for the rebranding of 116 Metro Mass Transit (MMT) buses at a cost of Gh₵3,600,000 was sole sourced and awarded to a company named “\"Smarttys,\"” owned by a member of the ruling NDC activist Selassie Ibrahim. It was revealed that the rebranding of the buses cost the government Gh₵3,600,000 which at the time was more than the cost of the 116 buses.\n\nMahama received an honorary doctorate in the field of Public Administration, from the Ekiti State University of Nigeria, formerly affiliated to the Obafemi Awolowo University in \"recognition of his politico-socio economic development of Ghana and Africa at various stages of his political career. Later the same university passed a resolution to name its Faculty of Management Science after him.\n\nThe Cuban government, recognising Mahama's relentless advocacy for the Cuban cause, namely for the lifting of the 50-year economic embargo on the communist country and for the freedom of the detained Cuban five by the United States government, conferred on him the Friendship Medal. The General Council of Assemblies of God, Ghana honoured Mahama with its Daniel Award. The Graduate School of Governance and Leadership also awarded him the African Servant Leadership Award while the Institute of Public Relations recognized Mahama with a prize for his leadership acumen and technocratic flair. In 2013, the Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA) conferred on Mahama the Africa Award for Excellence in Food Security and Poverty Reduction. In March 2016, University of Aberdeen held a special convocation to confer an honorary degree of Doctors of Laws (LLD) on President John Mahama.\n\nMahama has also attended numerous conferences and won many fellowships, including a study as a visiting scholar at The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States. He is also a Bill Gates Fellow. He was awarded the Great Cross of the National Order of Benin, the highest award in Benin, by President Yayi Boni.\n\nIn February 2017, Mahama received the 2016 African Political Leader of the Year Award from the African Leadership Magazine in South Africa.\n\n\n2016\n"}
{"id": "56333716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56333716", "title": "Joost Augusteijn", "text": "Joost Augusteijn\n\nJoost Augusteijn (born 24 July 1960, Amsterdam) is a Dutch historian and lecturer. He was formerly a lecturer in Modern Irish History at Trinity College Dublin and Queen's University Belfast. He currently is an Associate professor of European History at Leiden University\n\nAugusteijn earned his PhD at the University of Amsterdam on the history of the Irish Republican Army. He has written many books including 'Patrick Pearse: The Making of a Revolutionary' and 'The Irish Revolution'.\n"}
{"id": "31755650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31755650", "title": "Jules Schelvis", "text": "Jules Schelvis\n\nJules Schelvis (7 January 1921 – 3 April 2016) was a Dutch historian, writer, Holocaust survivor, and Nazi hunter. He lost his wife and most of his family during The Holocaust. Schelvis was a plaintiff and expert witness during the trial of John Demjanjuk.\n\nSchelvis was rounded up in Amsterdam along with his family on 26 May 1943 during the occupation of the Netherlands by Nazi Germany. He was deported to Westerbork and after 6 days boarded the Holocaust train to Sobibor. The journey lasted for 4 days. At the ramp, Schelvis was separated from his family and selected to join the work unit sent to Lublin Reservation labour camp in Dorohucza to build latifundia of General Plan Ost. The Poles and Dutchmen, covered in lice, received one litre of soup per day, and sometimes dog meat. From there he was sent to the Radom Ghetto, to work in the weapons factory, where he witnessed the ghetto liquidation action on 8 November 1943. He was sent on a death march to Tomaszów Mazowiecki. From there he eventually reached Vaihingen near Stuttgart, where he was liberated by the French army on 8 April 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "49297574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49297574", "title": "Karl Brandi", "text": "Karl Brandi\n\nKarl Maria Prosper Laurenz Brandi (20 May 1868 – 9 March 1946) was a German historian.\n\nIn 1890–91, he wrote his dissertation on the Reichenauer documents: \"Die Reichenauer Urkundenfälschungen\", which served as Volume 1 of \"Quellen und Forschungen zur Geschichte der Abtei Reichenau\". He followed his teacher to Berlin in 1891–95. The Munich Historical Commission directed him to complete the posthumous works on August von Druffel's contributions to imperial history and the Council of Trent, \"Monumenta Tridentina\". In 1895 he completed his own habilitation in Göttingen. From 1902 until his retirement in 1936, and again, from the outbreak of World War II until shortly before his death, he held a professorship for German History at the University of Göttingen. His study of the court of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, maintaining it was an amalgamation of Burgundian and Spanish traditions is considered a ground breaking, although problematic, shift in the study of the importance of Charles' reign.\n\n"}
{"id": "46428778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46428778", "title": "Konstantin Shteppa", "text": "Konstantin Shteppa\n\nKonstantin Feodosyevich Shteppa, , also Step(p)a (3 December 1896, Lokhvytsia, Poltava Governorate — 19 November 1958, New York City) was a Soviet and American historian of German-Ukrainian descent. He studied history of the Byzantine Empire, the Orthodox Church, late medieval history of Ukraine and the history of Stalin's purge. Being an NKVD informant, he switched allegiance to SD during World War II and immigrated to the US after the war.\n\nBorn into a family of an Orthodox priest of German descent in Ukraine. He studied history in Petrograd University, was a White Army officer during the Civil War. He was able to conceal his anti-Soviet past and became a prominent Soviet historian, head of the Chair of Antiquity and the Middle Age in Kiev University, later dean of the historical faculty in the same university, deputy of Kiev city council. He co-authored with Oleksander Ohloblyn several propaganda articles against the \"Russian imperial chauvinism and local nationalism\".\n\nFrom 1927 to 1938 he was an NKVD informant. In February 1938 he was arrested for his alleged anti-Soviet sentiments. While he was in prison, his baby daughter died of hunger. In 1939 he was released without explication and restored to his professor position in the University; Ukrainian historians blame him of continued cooperation with NKVD.\n\nDuring the German occupation he shortly worked as head of education department in the city administration and head of Kiev University (which was dissolved soon afterwards). He conflicted with the mayor of Kiev, Volodymyr Bahaziy and his supporters, a group of pro-Melnyk Ukrainian nationalists, which resulted in their arrest and execution, as well as banishment of the city newspaper \"The Ukrainian Word\". As a result, Shteppa was appointed editor-in-chief of the newly created newspaper \"The New Ukrainian Word\" (which, contrary to the dissolved one, was published in Russian). The newspaper took an open pro-German stance and criticized the \"nationalist\" policy of the previous city administration.\n\nAt the end of the war Shteppa worked in mass media of general Andrei Vlasov's movement. His son Erasm was conscripted to Wehrmacht in 1944, was captured by the Soviets and spent subsequent 20 years in prison before he was able to emigrate to Germany.\n\nShortly after the war he met Fritz Houtermans, a renowned physicist who had been his cell mate in 1938. The latter provided him and his family permits to stay in Germany. Later they co-authored a book \"Russian Purge and the Extraction of Confession\", which was published under the pseudonyms of Beck and Godin in order to protect their many friends and colleagues back in the USSR.\n\nIn early 1950s Shteppa himself managed to emigrate to the US with the rest of his family, where he worked as a history professor, published articles and books on the Soviet and Russian history. His role in persecutions of Ukrainian nationalists in Kiev under the German occupation was never forgotten and forgiven by them. Oleksander Ohloblyn ignores Shteppa in his publications on the modern Ukrainian historiography.\n\nShteppa's daughter Aglaia Gorman published a book of reminiscences about the family's history.\n\n"}
{"id": "17088758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17088758", "title": "Leonard C. Bruno", "text": "Leonard C. Bruno\n\nLeonard C. Bruno (born 1944) was the Science Manuscript Historian and subject specialist in the Manuscript Division at the Library of Congress. Amongst his books are reference guides to the library's collections in the history of science. After more than forty years of service at the Library of Congress he retired in June 2012.\n\nHis career at the Library of Congress began with a temporary writing and research position in the Library of Congress' Science and Technology and Business Division in 1969. Twenty-six years later shifted to work in the Library of Congress' manuscript division. As the manuscripts historian for science at the Library of Congress he was primarily responsible for the exhibition and acquisition of the papers of scientists. He was instrumental in the digitization and exhibition of the Wright Brothers's papers and the acquisition of Carl Sagan's Papers.\n\nHis work has been reviewed in journals such as \"Technology and Culture\", and \"Isis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671", "title": "Lesser Poland", "text": "Lesser Poland\n\nLesser Poland (, ) is a historical region (\"dzielnica\") of Poland; its capital is the city of Kraków.\n\nIt should not be confused with the modern Lesser Poland Voivodeship, which covers only the south-western part of Lesser Poland (darker rose on map to the right). \n\nHistorical Lesser Poland was much bigger than the current voivodeship that bears its name. It reached from Bielsko-Biała in the south-west as far as to Siedlce in the north-east. It consisted of the three voivodeships of Kraków, Sandomierz and Lublin. \n\nIt comprised almost 60,000 km in area; today's population in this area is about 9,000,000 inhabitants. Its landscape is mainly hilly, with the Carpathian Mountains in the south; it is located in the basin of the upper Vistula River. It has been noted for its mighty aristocracy (\"magnateria\") and rich nobility (\"szlachta\").\n\nIn the wider sense (see Lesser Poland Province of the Polish Crown), Lesser Poland from the 14th century also encompassed Red Ruthenia. From the 16th century it included Podlachia, Podolia and parts of modern Ukraine.\n\nIn the era of partitions, the southern part, known as Galicia, was sometimes also called Lesser Poland. As a result of this long-lasting division, many inhabitants of the northern part of the pre-partition region of Poland (including those in such cities as Lublin, Radom, Kielce and Częstochowa) do not recognize their Lesser Polish identity. \nHowever, while Lublin \"(Lubelskie)\" was declared an independent Voivodeship as early as 1474, it still has speakers of the Lesser Polish dialect. In addition, it has various local traditions as well as cuisine that have been carried forward since the time of Lesser Poland.\n\nLesser Poland lies in the area of the upper confluence of the Vistula river and covers a large upland, including the Świętokrzyskie Mountains with the Kraków-Częstochowa Upland further west, Małopolska Upland, Sandomierz Basin, and Lublin Upland. Unlike other historical parts of the country, such as Kujawy, Mazovia, Podlachia, Pomerania, or Greater Poland, Lesser Poland is mainly hilly, with Poland's highest peak, Rysy, located within the borders of the province. Flat are northern and central areas of the province – around Tarnobrzeg, Stalowa Wola, Radom and Siedlce, also valleys of the main rivers – the Vistula, the Pilica, and the San. Apart from Rysy, there are several other peaks located in the province – Pilsko, Babia Góra, Turbacz, as well as Łysica in the Świętokrzyskie Mountains. Southern part of the province is covered by the Carpathian Mountains, which are made of smaller ranges, such as Pieniny, Tatry, and Beskidy.\n\nAlmost whole area is located in the Vistula Basin, with the exception of western and southern parts, belonging to the Odra and Dunaj Basins. Main rivers of the province are the Vistula, upper Warta, Soła, Skawa, Raba, Dunajec, Wisłok, Wisłoka, San, Wieprz, Przemsza, Nida, Kamienna, Radomka, and Pilica. Major lakes of the province are: Lake Rożnów, Lake Czchów, Lake Dobczyce, Lake Czorsztyn, Lake Czaniec, Lake Międzybrodzie, Lake Klimkówka and Żywiec Lake. Most of them are man-made reservoirs.\n\nLesser Poland stretches from the Carpathians in the south to Pilica and Liwiec rivers to the north. It borders Mazovia to the north, Podlaskie to the northeast, Red Ruthenia to the east, Slovakia to the south, Silesia to the west, and Greater Poland to the northwest. Currently, the region is divided between Polish voivodeships – Lesser Poland Voivodeship (whole), Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship (whole), Silesian Voivodeship (eastern half), Podkarpackie Voivodeship (western part), Masovian Voivodeship (southern part), Łódź Voivodeship (southeastern corner), and Lublin Voivodeship (western part).\n\nIn Silesian Voivodeship, the border between Silesia and Lesser Poland is easy to draw, because with few exceptions, it goes along boundaries of local counties. In the south, it goes along western boundary of ancient Duchy of Teschen, with the borderline along the Biała river, where Zwardoń, Milówka, and Rajcza are in Lesser Poland. Bielsko-Biała is a city made of two parts – Lesser Poland's Biala (also called \"Biala Krakowska\"), makes eastern half of the city, and only in 1951 it merged with Silesian Bielsko. Further north, the border goes along western boundaries of cities of Jaworzno, and Sosnowiec, along the Przemsza and Brynica rivers. Then it goes northwest, leaving Czeladź, Siewierz, Koziegłowy, Blachownia, Kłobuck and Krzepice within Lesser Poland. From Krzepice, the border goes eastwards, towards Koniecpol, and along the Pilica river, with such towns as Przedborz, Opoczno, Drzewica, Białobrzegi, and Kozienice within Lesser Poland. East of Białobrzegi, the boundary goes mainly along the Radomka river, to the Vistula. East of the Vistula, the boundary goes north of Łaskarzew and Żelechów, and south of Mazovian town of Garwolin, turning northwest. Extreme northern point of the province is marked by the Liwiec river, with both Siedlce, and Łuków being part of Lesser Poland. The line then goes south, with Miedzyrzec Podlaski being part of historical Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and Radzyń Podlaski as well as Parczew left in Lesser Poland.\n\nBetween the Vistula and the Bug Rivers, eastern border of Lesser Poland goes west of Leczna, but east of Krasnystaw and Szczebrzeszyn, both of which historically belong to Red Ruthenia. Further south, Lesser Poland includes Frampol, and Biłgoraj, which lies in the southeastern corner on Lesser Poland's historical Lublin Voivodeship, close to the border with Red Ruthenia. The border then goes west of Biłgoraj, turning south, towards Leżajsk (which belongs to Red Ruthenia). Boundary between Lesser Poland and Red Ruthenia was described by Ukrainian historian and geographer Myron Korduba along the line Dukla – Krosno – Domaradz – Czudec – Krzeszów nad Sanem. Lesser Poland border towns were: Rudnik, Kolbuszowa, Ropczyce, Sędziszów Małopolski, Strzyżów, Jasło, Gorlice, and Biecz. Southern border of Lesser Poland goes along the Carpathian Mountains, and with minor changes, it has not changed for centuries. Cities of Leżajsk, Rzeszów, Sanok, Brzozów, and Krosno do not belong to historical Lesser Poland, as they are part of Red Ruthenia (Lwów Voivodeship).\n\nHistorically, Lesser Poland was divided into two lands - Kraków Land and Sandomierz Land, both of which emerged after the Testament of Bolesław III Krzywousty. In the 14th century, Sandomierz Voivodeship and Kraków Voivodeship were created, and in 1474, Lublin Voivodeship was carved of three Sandomierz Voivodeship counties, located on the right bank of the Vistula. Historian Adolf Pawiński, who in the late 19th century was director of Polish Central Archives of Historical Records, estimated in his book \"Polska XVI wieku pod względem geograficzno-statystycznym\", that the size of Kraków Voivodeship was 19,028 km. Sandomierz Voivodeship had the area of 25,762 km., and Lublin Voivodeship - 11,033 km. Together with the Duchy of Siewierz (607 km.), and the parts of Spiš that belonged to Poland after the Treaty of Lubowla (1211 km.), total area of Lesser Poland was 57,640 square kilometers. Apart from the three historic lands, Lesser Poland has other smaller regions, such as Podhale, Ponidzie, and Zagłębie Dąbrowskie.\n\nZygmunt Gloger in his work \"Historical geography of land of ancient Poland\" (\"Geografia historyczna ziem dawnej Polski\") states that according to a Polish custom, whenever a new village was formed next to an older one, the name of the new entity was presented with an adjective \"little\" (or \"lesser\"), while the old village was described as \"greater\". The same procedure was used in naming these two Polish provincesthe \"older\" one, the cradle of the Polish state, was called \"Greater Poland\", while her \"younger sister\", which became part of Poland a few years later, was called \"Lesser Poland\". The name Greater Poland (\"Polonia Maior\") was for the first time used in 1242, by princes Boleslaw and Przemysław I, who named themselves \"Duces Majoris Poloniae\" (\"Princes of the Older Poland\"). Lesser Poland, or \"Polonia Minor\", appeared for the first time in historical documents in 1493, in the Statutes of Piotrków, during the reign of King Jan Olbracht, to distinguish this province from Greater Poland (\"Polonia Maior\").\n\nIn the first years of Polish statehood, southern Lesser Poland was inhabited by the West Slavic tribe of Vistulans, with two major centers in Kraków and Wiślica. Their land, which had probably been part of Great Moravia, and Bohemia, was annexed by Mieszko I of Poland some time in the late 10th century. Cosmas of Prague in his \"Chronicle of Bohemians\" wrote: \"Polish prince Mieszko, a cunning man, seized by ruse the city of Kraków, killing with sword all Czechs he found there\". Northern part of Lesser Poland (Lublin and Sandomierz) was probably inhabited by another tribe, the Lendians, and dr Antoni Podraza, historian of the Jagiellonian University claims that ancient division of Lesser Poland into two major parts – Land (Duchy) of Kraków, and Land (Duchy) of Sandomierz, is based on the existence of two Slavic tribes in the area. However, exact location of the Lendians has not been determined to this day. Some historians speculate that they occupied Red Ruthenia, and their center was in Przemyśl.\nAround the year 1000, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kraków was created, and its borders covered whole area of Lesser Poland. During the reign of Casimir I the Restorer, Kraków for the first time became the capital of Poland (around 1040), since Greater Poland and Silesia, with main Polish urban centers, such as Gniezno and Poznań were ravaged by Duke Bretislaus I of Bohemia. In 1138, following the Testament of Bolesław III Krzywousty, the country was divided between his sons (see also Fragmentation of Poland). Bolesław III Wrymouth created the Seniorate Province, which, among others, consisted of Kraków. At the same time, Lesser Poland was divided into two parts, when its eastern part formed the Duchy of Sandomierz, carved by the ruler for his son Henry of Sandomierz.\nDuring the fragmentation period, both lands of Lesser Poland were frequently ruled by the same prince. Among them were Bolesław IV the Curly, Mieszko III the Old, Casimir II the Just, Leszek I the White, Bolesław V the Chaste, Leszek II the Black, Władysław I the Elbow-high, and King of Bohemia, Wenceslaus II of Bohemia, who united Lesser Poland in 1290/1291. The province was pillaged during the Mongol invasion of Poland, when a combined army of Kraków and Sandomierz was destroyed by Baidar in the Battle of Chmielnik. The loss was so heavy that Norman Davies wrote: \"At Chmielnik, the assembled nobility of Małopolska perished to a man.\" During their 1241, 1259, and 1287 invasions, the Mongols burned major cities of Lesser Poland, killing thousands of people. Furthermore, the province, especially its northeastern part, was often raided by the Lithuanians, Rusyns, Yotvingians, and Old Prussians. The city of Lublin suffered most frequently – among others, it was burnt by the Rusyns in 1244, the Lithuanians 1255, the Prussians in 1266, and the Yotvingians in 1282. Another center of the province, Sandomierz, was destroyed by the Tartars in 1260, and burnt by the Lithuanians in 1349.\n\nUnlike other Polish provinces, especially Silesia, Lesser Poland did not undergo further fragmentation, and in the early 14th century became the core of the reunited nation (together with Greater Poland). The period of nation's fragmentation came to a symbolic end on 30 January 1320, when Władysław I the Elbow-high was crowned as King of Poland. The ceremony took place in Kraków's Wawel Cathedral, and the king of the reunited country decided to choose Kraków as the capital. Through 14th and 15th centuries, Lesser Poland's position as the most important province of the nation was cemented. It became visible during the reign of Casimir III the Great, who favored less known Lesser Poland's noble families, at the expense of Greater Poland's nobility. The reign of Casimir the Great was a period of growing prosperity of Lesser Poland. With high density of population, fertile soils and rich deposits of minerals (especially salt in Bochnia and Wieliczka, as well as lead in Olkusz), the province was the richest part of Poland. After annexation of Red Ruthenia, Lesser Poland lost its status of the borderland, and both regions created an economic bridge between Poland and the ports of the Black Sea. The king, who drew Jewish settlers from across Europe to his country, built several castles along western border of Lesser Poland, with the most notable ones in Skawina, Pieskowa Skała, Będzin, Lanckorona, Olkusz, Lelów, Bobolice, Krzepice, Ogrodzieniec, Ojców, Olsztyn, Bobolice, Mirów (see also Eagle Nests Trail). Furthermore, he built or strengthened castles in other parts of the province, such as Szydlow, Chęciny, Wiślica, Radom, Niedzica, Opoczno, Lublin, Sandomierz, as well as the Wawel Castle. Also, during his reign (1333–1370), Casimir the Great founded on Magdeburg rights several cities, urbanizing hitherto rural province. Among major Lesser Poland's cities founded by the King, there are:\n\nIn the Kingdom of Poland, Lesser Poland was made of three voivodeships – Kraków Voivodeship, Sandomierz Voivodeship, and Lublin Voivodeship, created in 1474 out of eastern part of the Sandomierz Voivodeship. Borders of the province remained unchanged until 1772. The only exception was large part of contemporary Upper Silesia (the area around Bytom, Toszek, Siewierz, and Oświęcim), which belonged to Duchy of Kraków until 1179. In that year, prince of Kraków Casimir II the Just, handed these lands to Prince of Opole Mieszko I Tanglefoot. The Duchy of Siewierz, ruled since 1443 by the Archbishop of Kraków, merged with Lesser Poland in 1790. Other Silesian realms lost in 1179, also returned to Lesser Poland – Duchy of Zator (in 1513), and Duchy of Oświęcim (1564). Both duchies merged into a Silesian County of the Kraków Voivodeship, and shared the fate of Lesser Poland. Apart from Jews, among other ethnic minorities of the province were the Walddeutsche, who settled the borderland of Lesser Poland and Red Ruthenia (14th through 17th centuries). In the Middle Ages, the Germans inhabited several cities of Lesser Poland, especially Kraków and Sandomierz (see Rebellion of wójt Albert).\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, Lesser Poland gradually became the center of Polish statehood, with Kraków being the capital of the country from the mid-11th century until 1596. Its nobility ruled Poland when Queen Jadwiga was too young to control the state, and the Union of Krewo with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania was the brainchild of Lesser Poland's szlachta.\n\nIn the 15th and 16th centuries, Lesser Poland remained the most important part of the country. After the death of Casimir the Great, Lesser Poland's nobility promoted Louis I of Hungary as the new king, later supporting his daughter Jadwiga of Poland in exchange for Privilege of Koszyce. Since Jadwiga, crowned on 16 October 1384, was too young to rule the country, Poland was in fact governed by the Lesser Poland's nobility, who decided to find her a husband, Grand Duke of Lithuania, Jogaila. Consequently, unions of Poland and Lithuania at Krewo and Horodło were the brainchildren of Lesser Poland's nobility, among whom the most influential individuals were Spytek z Melsztyna, and cardinal Zbigniew Olesnicki. Other famous Lesser Poland's families are Lubomirski family, Kmita family, Tarnowski family, Potocki family, Sobieski family, Koniecpolski family, Ossolinski family, Poniatowski family.\n\nSince Lesser Poland was the most important province of the country, several important events took place on its territory. In 1364, Casimir the Great called the Congress of Kraków, and in 1401, the Union of Vilnius and Radom was signed. In 1505 in Radom, the Sejm adopted the Nihil novi title, which forbade the King to issue laws without the consent of the nobility. In the same year, also in the same city, Polish law was codified in the Łaski's Statute, and the Crown Tribunal (the highest appeal court in the Crown of the Polish Kingdom) held its sessions in Lublin. In 1525, the Treaty of Kraków was signed, ending the Polish–Teutonic War. Lesser Poland also is home to the oldest Polish university – the Jagiellonian University, founded in 1364 by Casimir the Great, and several outstanding figures of early Polish culture were born here, such as Jan Kochanowski, Mikołaj Rej, Jan z Lublina, Mikołaj Gomółka, Maciej Miechowita, Marcin Kromer, Łukasz Górnicki, and Mikołaj Radomski.\n\nIn the 16th century, Lesser Poland retained its position as the most important province of the country. As no major conflicts took place on its territory, it was the center of Renaissance in Poland. The province was home to numerous scholars, writers and statesmen, and it was here where Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was created in 1569 (see Union of Lublin). In the Commonwealth, Lesser Poland proper was the base of the Province of Lesser Poland, which covered southern lands of the vast country. The province was made of Lesser Poland itself, also Red Ruthenia, Volhynia, Podolia, and Ukrainian voivodeships – Kijów Voivodeship, Czernihów Voivodeship, and Bracław Voivodeship, which, until 1569, had been part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nThe period in Polish history known as the Polish Golden Age was very fortunate for Lesser Poland. Kings of the Jagiellonian dynasty, especially Sigismund I the Old (himself born in Lesser Poland's Kozienice), and his son Sigismund II Augustus (born in Kraków), resided in Kraków, which was the capital of the immense Polish – Lithuanian Commonwealth. Lesser Poland's prosperity was reflected in numerous examples of Renaissance architecture complexes, built across the province. In 1499, hiherto Gothic Wawel Castle was damaged in a fire, and a few years later, Sigismund I, with help of the best native and foreign artists (such as Francesco the Florentine, Bartholomeo Berrecci or Niccolo Castiglione) refurbished the complex into a splendid Renaissance palace. Furthermore, in the early 16th century, several palaces were built in Lesser Poland – in Drzewica, Szydłowiec, Ogrodzieniec, and Pieskowa Skała. The province became rich mostly due to the grain trade, conducted along the Vistula, and among cities which prospered in the 16th century, there are Kraków, Sandomierz, Lublin, Kazimierz Dolny, Pilzno, Tarnów, Radom, Biecz. In later years of the 16th century, further palaces were built or remodelled in Baranow Sandomierski, and Niepołomice.\n\nIn the early 16th century, Protestant Reformation spread across the Commonwealth, and Lesser Poland became one of early centers of the movement, when students from Wittenberg brought the news to Cracow. In the first years of the century, professor of Jagiellonian University Jakub of Iłża (Jakub z Ilzy, died 1542) became one of the main promoters of the movement in the region. He actively supported the notions of Martin Luther, and in 1528 was called to the Bishop of Kraków's court. Convinced of heresy, he was forced to leave Poland in 1535. Reformation soon became very popular among Lesser Poland's nobility, especially Calvinism, and according to one estimate, some 20% of local szlachta converted from Roman Catholicism. They were attracted by Calvinism's democratic character, and Lesser Poland's center of the movement was set in the town of Pińczów, which came to be known as \"Sarmatian Athens\". It was in Pińczów, where a local nobleman converted a Roman Catholic parish into a Protestant one, opened a Calvinist Academy, and published its Antitrinitarian confession in 1560 and in 1561. Several Calvinist synods took place in Lesser Poland – the first one in Słomniki (1554), Pińczów (the first united Synod of Poland and Lithuania – 1556 1561), and Kraków (1562). In 1563, also in Pińczów, the so-called Brest Bible was translated into Polish language. In 1570, the Sandomierz Agreement was signed by a number of Protestant groups, with the exception of the Polish Brethren, another religious group very influential in Lesser Poland. The Brethren had their center in Lesser Poland's village of Raków, where a main Arian printing press, as well as a college, known as Akademia Rakowska (\"Gymnasium Bonarum Artium\") founded in 1602 were located. Among distunguished European scholars associated with the school, there were Johannes Crellius, Corderius, and Valentinus Smalcius (who translated into German the Racovian Catechism).\n\nIn 1572, the Jagiellon dynasty died out, and next year, Henry III of France became first elected king of the country. After his short reign, and War of the Polish Succession (1587–88), which also took place in Lesser Poland, the new ruler was Stephen Báthory of Poland, who died in 1586. The ruler from Transylvania was followed by Sigismund III Vasa of Sweden, whose election marked gradual decline of the province. Sigismund's eyes were set on Sweden, and for many years he concentrated his efforts on a futile attempt to regain his former Swedish throne (see Polish–Swedish union, War against Sigismund). Therefore, Lesser Poland, located in southwestern corner of the Commonwealth, began to lose its importance, which was marked in 1596, when Sigismund moved his permanent residence, court and the crown headquarters to centrally-located Warsaw.\nEven though first half of the 17th century was filled with wars, all major conflicts did not reach Lesser Poland, and the province continued to prosper, which was reflected in its castles and palaces, such as the enormous Krzyztopor. Apart from minor wars, such as Zebrzydowski Rebellion, and Kostka-Napierski Uprising, the province remained safe. Cossacks of the Khmelnytsky Uprising reached as far west as Zamość and Lwów, but did not enter Lesser Poland. The province did not witness other wars, such as Polish–Swedish War (1626–29), Polish–Muscovite War (1605–18), Polish–Ottoman War (1620–21), and Smolensk War. Nevertheless, Lesser Poland's nobility took active part in these conflicts – Marina Mniszech, the daughter of Voivode of Sandomierz, Jerzy Mniszech, was wife of False Dmitriy I, as well as False Dmitriy II. Furthermore, Lesser Poland's lands, especially its northeastern part, became a base for Polish troops, fighting the Cossacks, and King John II Casimir Vasa often stayed in Lublin with his court, preparing military campaigns in Ukraine. The situation changed with the outbreak of the Russo-Polish War (1654–1667). In October 1655, the Russo-Cossack armies under Ivan Vyhovsky entered eastern Lesser Poland, reaching the Vistula, and pillaging Lublin, Puławy, and Kazimierz Dolny. The invaders quickly retreated, but a few months later, Lesser Poland was flooded by the Swedes.\n\nSwedish invasion of Poland had catastrophic consequences for the hitherto prosperous province. The attackers, supported by their allies from Transylvania, seized whole Lesser Poland, reaching as far south as Nowy Targ, Nowy Sącz, and Żywiec. All major cities were looted and burned, and some of them, like Radom, did not recover until the 19th century. The Swedes captured and pillaged Sandomierz (where they destroyed the Royal Castle, and after the invasion, the city never recovered), Opoczno, Lublin, Kazimierz Dolny Pilzno, Szydlow, Szydłowiec, Tarnów, Kielce, Kraśnik, and Kraków. The invaders seized the capital of Lesser Poland after a short siege, and their occupation of the province was confirmed after their victories in the Battle of Wojnicz, and the Battle of Golab. In those years, one of the most important and symbolic events in the history of the nation took place in Lesser Poland. It was the Siege of Jasna Góra, which, according to some accounts, turned the course of the war. Furthermore, following the Treaty of Radnot, Lesser Poland was invaded in January 1657 by George II Rákóczi, whose troops caused more destruction. Foreign armies were not chased out of Lesser Poland until 1657, Kraków itself was recaptured on 18 August 1657. After these invasions, the province was ruined, with hundreds of villages, towns and cities burned. The population decreased (the urban population by nearly half), the peasantry starved, and like other parts of the Commonwealth, Lesser Poland was devastated. The period of peace lasted for about forty years, when in 1700, another major conflict, the Great Northern War began. Lesser Poland once again became a battleground, with Battle of Kliszów taking place there in 1702, and the Sandomierz Confederation formed in 1704.\n\nAfter the conflict, Lesser Poland began a recovery, which was hampered by several other factors. Province's cities frequently burned (Lublin 1719, Nowy Targ 1784, Nowy Sącz, Dukla 1758, Wieliczka 1718, Miechów 1745, Drzewica), there also were numerous outbreaks of plagues and typhus (in 1707–1708, some 20,000 died in Kraków and its area)\n\nLesser Poland was one of main centers of the Bar Confederation. On 21 June 1786 in Kraków, local confederation was announced, and on the same day Voievode of Kraków, Michal Czarnocki, urged his citizens to join the movement. Soon afterwards, Kraków was captured by the Russian troops, and the center of Lesser Poland's insurgency moved to the mountainous south – areas around Dukla and Nowy Sącz. During the Confederation, several battles and skirmishes took place there. In 1770, after the Battle of Iwonicz, the Russians ransacked Biecz. The movement ended in 1772, and its decline was connected with the Partitions of Poland. Another local center of the movement was Jasna Góra Monastery in Częstochowa, which was defended by Kazimierz Pulaski for almost two years (1770–1772).\n\nThe Partitions of Poland began earlier in Lesser Poland than in other provinces of the country. In 1769, Austrian Empire annexed a small territory of Spisz, and next year, the towns of Czorsztyn, Nowy Sącz and Nowy Targ. In 1771, the Russians and the Prussians agreed on the first partition of the country, and in early 1772, Austrian Emperor Maria Theresa decided to join the two powers. In the first partition of the Commonwealth, the Austrians seized the territory which would later be called Galicia, and which included southwestern corner of Lesser Poland (south of the Vistula river), with Żywiec, Tarnów, and Biecz, but without major urban centers of the province, such as Kraków, Sandomierz, Radom, Lublin, Częstochowa, and Kielce.\n\nSecond Partition of Poland (1793) did not result in significant changes of boundaries in the area, as the Austrian Empire did not participate in it. However, the Prussians moved on, and in 1793 they annexed northwestern corner of the province, together with the city of Częstochowa, and its vicinity, which became part of the newly created province of South Prussia. Therefore, in late 1793, Lesser Poland was already divided between three countries – Austrian Empire (south of the Vistula), Kingdom of Prussia (Częstochowa and northwestern corner), and still existing Commonwealth. After the Third Partition (1795), most of Lesser Poland was annexed by Austria, with all major cities. Prussia managed to seize a small, western part of the province, with the towns of Siewierz, Zawiercie, Będzin, and Myszków, calling this land New Silesia, while the Austrians decided to name newly acquired lands of northern Lesser Poland West Galicia. In 1803, West Galicia was merged with Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria, but retained some autonomy. Lesser Poland was one of major centers of Polish resistance against the occupiers. On 24 March 1794 in Kraków, Tadeusz Kościuszko announced the general insurrection (see Kosciuszko Uprising), mobilising all able males of Lesser Poland. Two weeks later, Battle of Raclawice took place, ending with a Polish victory. The uprising was suppressed by combined Prusso – Russian forces, and among battles fought in Lesser Poland, there is Battle of Szczekociny.\n\nDuring Napoleonic Wars, the Duchy of Warsaw was created by Napoleon Bonaparte out of Polish lands which had been granted to Prussia in the Partitions. In 1809, after the Polish–Austrian War, and the Treaty of Schönbrunn, the Duchy was expanded, when northern Lesser Poland was added to its territory (with Kielce, Radom, and Lublin). Following the Congress of Vienna, Duchy of Warsaw was turned into Russian-ruled Congress Poland, and historical capital of the province, Kraków, was turned into Free City of Kraków, which also included the towns of Trzebinia, Chrzanów, Jaworzno, and Krzeszowice. In Congress Poland, the lands of Lesser Poland were initially divided between four palatinates – Palatinate of Kraków (with capital in Kielce), Palatinate of Sandomierz (with capital in Radom), Palatinate of Lublin, and Palatinate of Podlasie (with capital in Siedlce), (see also Administrative division of Congress Poland). Later, the palatinates were turned into governorates. Thus, Russian part of Lesser Poland was divided into Kielce Governorate, Lublin Governorate, Radom Governorate, Siedlce Governorate, and Piotrków Governorate (western counties, with Częstochowa and industrial area of Zagłębie Dąbrowskie). Borders of these administrative units did not reflect historical boundaries of the province.\nMost of the November Uprising, which began in 1830, missed Lesser Poland, as major battles took place in the area around Warsaw. In early 1831, when Russian forces advanced into Congress Poland, some skirmishes took place in northern counties of the province – at Puławy, Kurow, and Kazimierz Dolny. In early 1846, a group of Polish patriots attempted a failed uprising in the Free City of Kraków. The insurrection was quickly suppressed by the Austrian troops, and as a result, the Free City was annexed by the Austrian Empire. In the same year, Austrian part of Lesser Poland was witness to a massacre of Polish nobility by the peasantry, known as Galician slaughter. The peasants, led by Jakub Szela, murdered about 1000 nobles, and destroyed about 500 manors. These events took place in three counties – Sanok, Jasło and Tarnów.\n\nNorthern and central Lesser Poland (the part of the province which was taken by the Russian Empire) was one of the main centers of the January Uprising (1863–1864). In the first days of the insurrection, skirmishes with the Russian Army took place in such towns, as Łuków, Kraśnik, Szydłowiec, Bodzentyn, and Suchedniów. Since the Poles were poorly armed, the Russians did not have major problems with them, and soon afterwards, the insurrectionists decided to organize military camps. Among biggest camps in Lesser Poland, there were Ojców (3000 soldiers), and Wąchock, where Marian Langiewicz gathered up to 1500 people. The uprising died out by early spring of 1864, and among counties where it continued for the longest time, was the extreme northeastern corner of Lesser Poland, around Łuków, where reverend Stanisław Brzóska was active. Since Russian military supremacy was crushing, the Poles were forced to limit their actions to guerrilla warfare. Among the biggest battles which took place in Lesser Poland there are: Battle of Szydłowiec (23 January 1863); Battle of Miechów (17 February 1863); Battle of Małogoszcz (24 February 1863); Battle of Staszów (17 February 1863); Battle of Pieskowa Skała (4 March 1863); two Battles of Opatów (25 November 1863, 21 February 1864).\n\nAs a result of their support of the failed insurrection, several Lesser Poland's towns lost their charters and were turned into villages. Among them were Kraśnik, Bodzentyn, Opatów, Iłża, Małogoszcz, Wąchock, Busko-Zdrój, Jędrzejów, Cmielow, Zwoleń, Drzewica, Wierzbica, Czeladź, Kazimierz Dolny, Wolborz, Stopnica, Daleszyce, Wiślica, Pajęczno, Lipsko, Pacanów, Ożarów, Wolbrom, Proszowice, Nowe Miasto Korczyn, Włoszczowa, Przysucha, Opole Lubelskie.\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Lesser Poland remained one of the centers of Polish culture, especially the city of Kraków, where Jagiellonian University was one of only two Polish-language colleges of that period (the other one was University of Lwów). Another significant center of national culture was the town of Puławy, where in the late 18th century, a local palace owned by Czartoryski family became a museum of Polish national memorabilia and a major cultural and political centre. A number of prominent artists, both representing Romanticism, and Positivism was born in Lesser Poland, including Wincenty Pol (born in Lublin), Stefan Żeromski (born near Kielce), Aleksander Świętochowski (born near Łuków in extreme northeast corner of Lesser Poland), Walery Przyborowski (born near Kielce), Piotr Michałowski, Helena Modjeska, Henryk Wieniawski (born in Lublin), Leon Wyczolkowski (born near Siedlce), Juliusz Kossak (born in Nowy Wiśnicz), Jozef Szujski (born in Tarnów). In the early 20th century, Lesser Poland, especially its part which belonged to Austria-Hungary, was a center of a cultural movement called Young Poland. Many artists associated with the movement were born in Lesser Poland, with the most prominent including Wladyslaw Orkan, Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Xawery Dunikowski, Jacek Malczewski, Jozef Mehoffer, and Stanisław Wyspiański.\n\nSince Austrian part of Poland enjoyed a wide autonomy, the province of Galicia, whose western part was made of Lesser Poland, became a hotbed of Polish conspirational activities. In anticipation of a future war, Galician Poles, with help of their brethren from other parts of the divided country, created several paramilitary organizations, such as Polish Rifle Squads, and Riflemen's Association. The capital of Lesser Poland, Kraków, was a key center of pro-independence movements, with such individuals, as Józef Piłsudski, being actively involved in those activities. In August 1914, after the outbreak of World War I, Pilsudski's Legions crossed the Austrian – Russian border north of Kraków, and entered Congress Poland. However, the Pilsudski and his soldiers were disappointed to see that the inhabitants of Kielce did not welcome them with joy. The division of Lesser Poland was more visible than ever.\nDuring World War I, Lesser Poland became one of main theaters of the Eastern Front. Russian push into the territory of Austria – Hungary resulted in the Battle of Galicia. Among other major battles which took place in Lesser Poland, there are the Battle of the Vistula River, and the Gorlice-Tarnów Offensive. After Russian troops had retreated east, whole province was under control of the Austrians and the Germans, and northern Lesser Poland was part of the German-sponsored Kingdom of Poland (1916–1918). In later stages of the conflict, the divided province once again became a center of Polish independence movement. An independent Polish government was re-proclaimed in northern Lesser Poland's city of Lublin, on 7 November 1918. Soon afterwards, it formed the basis of the new government of the country. In other parts of the province, other governments were formed – Polish Liquidation Commission in Kraków, also the short-lived Republic of Tarnobrzeg.\n\nThe division of Lesser Poland along the Vistula river, which lasted from 1772 until 1918, is visible even today. For more than 100 years, southern Lesser Poland (Kraków, Tarnów, Biala Krakowska, and Nowy Sącz) was administered by Austria, while northern, larger part of the province (Częstochowa, Sosnowiec, Kielce, Radom, Lublin, Sandomierz) was forcibly part of the Russian Empire. Inhabitants of Austrian part of Poland enjoyed limited autonomy, with Polish language institutions, such as Jagiellonian University. At the same time, Russian-controlled Poland was subject to Russification. As a result of decades of this division, most inhabitants of the areas stolen by Russia are not aware of their Lesser Poland's heritage. Furthermore, current administrative boundaries of the country still reflect the defunct border between the former Russian and Austria–Hungarian Empires.\nIn 1918, when Second Polish Republic was created, whole historical Lesser Poland became part of restored Poland. The historical area of the province was divided between four voivodeships: Kraków Voivodeship (whole), Kielce Voivodeship (whole), Lwów Voivodeship (northwestern corner), and Lublin Voivodeship (western part). Furthermore, in the counties of central Lesser Poland, another administrative unit, Sandomierz Voivodeship was planned, but due to the outbreak of World War II, it was never created. Boundaries between two major Lesser Poland voivodeships – Kraków, and Kielce, were the same as pre-1914 boundaries of Austria-Hungary, and Russia. Nevertheless, in the interbellum period, the notion of Lesser Poland was frequently associated only with former Austrian province of Galicia. Therefore, Western Galicia to the San river, was called \"Western Lesser Poland\", while Eastern Galicia, east of the San, with the city of Lwów, was called \"Eastern Lesser Poland\" (voivodeships of Tarnopol, Stanisławów, and Lwów).\n\nIn late 1918, Lesser Poland emerged as one of main centers of fledgling Polish administration and independence movement. According to historian Kazimierz Banburski of Tarnów's District Museum, Tarnów was the first Polish city which became independent, after 123 years of oppression. On 31 October 1918, at 8 am, Tarnów's inhabitants began disarming demoralized Austrian soldiers, and after three hours, the city was completely in Polish hands. On 28 October 1918, Polish Liquidation Committee was created in Kraków. A few days later, socialist peasants founded the Republic of Tarnobrzeg. In the night of 6/7 November 1918, \"Polish People's Republic\" was proclaimed in Lublin, by Ignacy Daszynski and other activists. In 1919, the legislative election took place in Lesser Poland without major problems.\n\nAt that time Lesser Poland, like other provinces of the country, faced several problems. Even though major post-World War I conflicts (such as Polish–Soviet War) did not take place there, it suffered from unemployment, overpopulation, and poverty, especially in towns and countryside. Furthermore, Polish government had to connect parts of the hitherto divided country. There was no direct rail link between Kraków, and Kielce, Radom, and Lublin, and until 1934, when line from Kraków to Tunel was opened, all travelers had to go via Sosnowiec – Maczki. Lack of rail communication between former Austrian and former Russian parts of Lesser Poland is visible even today. Between Kraków and Dęblin, there are only two rail bridges along the Vistula. Residents of the province tried to improve their conditions using legal means, but when it turned out to be impossible, they took to fighting (1923 Kraków riot, 1937 peasant strike in Poland). As if to exacerbate the desperate situation, Lesser Poland witnessed a catastrophic flood in 1934, after which the government decided to construct dams on local rivers.\n\nEven though Lesser Poland's countryside was almost exclusively Polish, its towns and cities were inhabited by numerous Jews, whose communities were very vibrant. In Kraków, Jews made 25% of the population, in Lublin – 31%, in Kielce – 30%, and in Radom – 32%. Apart from the Jews, and Gypsies scattered in the south, there were no other significant national minorities in interbellum Lesser Poland.\n\nSince Lesser Poland was safely located in the middle of the country, away from both German and Soviet border, in the mid-1930s Polish government initiated one of the most ambitious project of the Second Polish Republic – Central Industrial Region, which was located almost exclusively in Lesser Poland. Even though the project was never completed, several plants were constructed, both in Old-Polish Industrial Region, and in other counties of the province. The brand new city of Stalowa Wola was established in dense forests, around a steel mill. In the late 1930s, Lesser Poland was quickly changing, as construction of several factories, and job opportunities caused influx of rural inhabitants to the towns. Such towns, as Dębica, Starachowice, Puławy, or Kraśnik, quickly grew, with their population rising. Earlier, in 1927, Lesser Poland's Dęblin became a major center of Polish aviation, when Polish Air Force Academy was opened there, and in Mielec, PZL Mielec was opened, which was the largest aerospace manufacturer in Poland. Central Industrial Region, however, did not affect western counties of Lesser Poland, which had already been urbanized and industrialized (Biala Krakowska, Żywiec, Kraków, Jaworzno, Zagłębie Dąbrowskie, Zawiercie, and Częstochowa). The government of Poland planned further investments, such as a major East – West rail line, linking Volhynia, and Upper Silesia, but they never materialized. Desperate situation and lack of jobs caused thousands of inhabitants of Lesser Poland (especially from its southern part) to leave their land, mostly for the United States of America, but also Brazil, and Canada.\n\nLesser Poland remained a center of Polish culture, with Kraków's Jagiellonian University, AGH University of Science and Technology, and Catholic University of Lublin, which was opened in 1918. Several important figures of interbellum political, military, and cultural life of Poland were born in Lesser Poland. Among them were Wincenty Witos, Władysław Sikorski, Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, Józef Haller, Władysław Belina-Prażmowski, Tadeusz Kutrzeba, Feliks Koneczny, Stefan Żeromski, Tadeusz Peiper, Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska, Witold Gombrowicz, Jan Kiepura, Stefan Jaracz. In 1920, in Lesser Poland's town of Wadowice, Karol Wojtyla, the future Pope John Paul II, was born.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, armed forces of Nazi Germany attacked Poland (see: Invasion of Poland). Lesser Poland, due to its proximity to the then-border with Germany, became a battleground on the first day of the invasion. The Germans attacked the province both in its northwest (area west of Częstochowa), and in the south (Podhale), along the border with Slovakia, Third Reich's ally.\n\nLesser Poland was defended by the following Polish armies:\n\n\nAfter a few days the Battle of the Border was lost, and forces of German Army Group South advanced deep into Lesser Poland's territory. Polish troops resisted fiercely, and among major battles in initial stages of the war, which took place in Lesser Poland, there are Battle of Mokra, Battle of Jordanów, and Battle of Węgierska Górka. By 6 September, Polish forces were in general retreat and Marshal of Poland Edward Rydz-Śmigły ordered all troops to fall back to the secondary lines of defences at the Vistula and San Rivers. German units entered Częstochowa on 3 September (where on the next day they murdered hundreds of civilians), Kielce on 5 September, Kraków on 6 September, and Radom on 8 September (see also Battle of Radom). Within a week, almost whole Lesser Poland was under Nazi occupation. Northeastern part of the province, the area of Lublin, was held by the Poles until 17 September, but eventually, and after fierce battles (see Battle of Tomaszów Lubelski), all Lesser Poland was firmly under Nazi control. First draft of Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact stipulated that northeastern Lesser Poland (east of the Vistula river) was to be occupied by the Soviet Union, and forces of the Red Army reached the area of Lublin after 20 September, but withdrew east on 28 September.\n\nOn 12 October 1939, upon a decree of Adolf Hitler, General Government, a separate region of the Greater German Reich was created, with Hans Frank as its Governor-General. Its capital was established in Kraków, and it covered most of the area of historical Lesser Poland, except for its western counties, which were directly incorporated into Nazi Germany's Upper Silesia Province (Będzin, Sosnowiec, Zawiercie, Biała, Żywiec, Chrzanów, Olkusz).\n\nIn Lesser Poland, like in all provinces of the occupied country, the Nazis ruled with savage brutality, killing hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, both Polish and Jewish (see: World War II crimes in Poland, Occupation of Poland (1939–1945), Holocaust in Nazi-occupied Poland, Nazi crimes against ethnic Poles, German AB-Aktion in Poland, Sonderaktion Krakau). The Auschwitz concentration camp, located at the border of Lesser Poland and Upper Silesia, was opened on 14 June 1940, and on 1 October 1941, the Germans opened Majdanek concentration camp on the outskirts of Lublin. The third concentration camp in Lesser Poland was in Kraków's district of Płaszów. In late 1939 and early 1940, in Lesser Poland's spa of Zakopane, and in Kraków, several Gestapo–NKVD Conferences took place, during which the mutual cooperation between Nazi Germany and Soviet Union was discussed.\n\nAnti-Nazi resistance was particularly strong in Lesser Poland, and it was in the extreme northwestern corner of the province (around Opoczno), that armed struggle against the occupiers began in late 1939 and early 1940 (see Henryk Dobrzański). Structures of the Home Army were well-developed in the region. Lesser Poland's independent areas of the Home Army were located in Kraków, Kielce-Radom, and Lublin. During Operation Tempest in mid-1944, several Lesser Poland's towns were liberated, also uprising in Kraków was prepared, but never realized. Apart from the Home Army, other resistance groups were strong in the province, such as pro-Communist Armia Ludowa, peasant's Bataliony Chłopskie, and right-wing National Armed Forces, with its Holy Cross Mountains Brigade.\n\nIn all major Lesser Poland's cities, Jewish ghettos were opened, with the biggest ones in Kraków, and Lublin. At first the Nazis were planning to create a so-called \"reservation\" for European Jews, located around Lesser Poland's town of Nisko (see Nisko Plan), but they changed the plan, and decided to murder all Jews. Condemned to death, Jews in Lesser Poland took to fighting (see Częstochowa Ghetto Uprising), but their efforts failed. As a result of The Holocaust in Poland, once thriving and numerous Jewish population of Lesser Poland was decimated.\n\nIn the summer of 1944, after Lvov–Sandomierz Offensive, Red Army pushed the Wehrmacht from eastern Lesser Poland. The city of Lublin was captured by the Soviets on 22 July 1944, Stalowa Wola – on 1 August, and Sandomierz, on the left bank of the Vistula – on 18 August. The front line stabilized along the Vistula for about six months (with some bridgeheads on the western bank on the Vistula – see Battle of Studzianki), and in early 1945, Soviet Vistula–Oder Offensive began, which pushed Germans to the gates of Berlin. The Soviets entered Kielce on 15 January, Częstochowa – on 17 January, and Kraków on 19 January. On 27 January, the Red Army entered Sosnowiec. In took the Soviets much longer to clear the areas in the mountains – they did not enter Żywiec until 5 April 1945.\n\nTogether with the Red Army, NKVD and Soviet authorities followed, whose purpose was to make Poland a Communist country, with a puppet government, formed as Polish Committee of National Liberation. Since 1 August 1944, the provisional government was officially headquartered in Lesser Poland's Lublin. Thousands of people took to the forests, to continue their fight for free Poland (see Anti-communist resistance in Poland (1944–46)). Lesser Poland again was one of the main centers of the resistance. Several skirmishes took place in the province, including Battle of Kuryłówka. The Communists did not hesitate to kill those rebels they captured (Public execution in Dębica (1946)), and by 1947, the resistance movement was crushed. The last Polish cursed soldier, Józef Franczak, was killed in 1963 near Świdnik in northeastern Lesser Poland. Also, all victims of the 1951 Mokotów Prison execution were members of Lesser Poland's branch of Freedom and Independence. Another well-known anti-Communist fighter from Lesser Poland is Józef Kuraś, who was active in the southern region of Podhale.\n\nIn early 1945, the lands of Lesser Poland were divided between three voivodeships – those of Kraków, Lublin, and Kielce. Since summer 1945, several counties were transferred to neighboring voivodeships – eastern Lesser Poland (Dębica, Jasło, Mielec) became part of Rzeszów Voivodeship, while western counties of Będzin and Zawiercie were transferred to Katowice Voivodeship. In 1950, the city of Częstochowa became part of Katowice Voivodeship, and next year, the city of Bielsko-Biała was created out of Lesser Poland's Biala Krakowska, and Upper Silesia's Bielsko. The new city became part of Katowice Voivodeship. Lesser Poland was further divided in 1975, when territorial reform was carried out (see Voivodeships of Poland (1975–1988)). Counties were abolished, and several small voivodeships were created, in such Lesser Poland's towns and cities, as Tarnobrzeg, Tarnów, Nowy Sącz, Bielsko-Biała, Radom, Częstochowa, and Siedlce.\n\nThe government of Communist Poland invested in heavy industry, following the pre-1939 idea of Central Industrial Area. In Kraków, a new district of Nowa Huta was constructed in the 1950s. In Częstochowa and Zawiercie, the steelworks were significantly expanded, and in early 1970, the government initiated construction of Katowice Steelworks, which, despite its name, is located in Lesser Poland's Dąbrowa Górnicza. To connect Katowice Steelworks with Soviet plants, in late 1970s Broad Gauge Metallurgy Line was opened, which crossed Lesser Poland from west to east. Among other major factories, opened in Lesser Poland during Communist rule, there are:\n\nOther Lesser Poland's major plants were significantly expanded after 1945, including Żywiec Brewery, Okocim Brewery, Fablok, Łucznik Arms Factory, FŁT-Kraśnik, Jaworzno Power Station, Siersza Power Plant, Huta Stalowa Wola, Janina Coal Mine, Sobieski Coal Mine, Zaklady Azotowe Tarnów-Mościce. Furthermore, in early 1950s significant sulfur resources were discovered in Tarnobrzeg, as a result of which Siarkopol company was founded, and the city of Tarnobrzeg quickly grew. In 1975, coal was discovered northeast of Lublin, and soon afterwards, Bogdanka Coal Mine and Piaski Coal Mine were opened.\n\nBetween 1971 and 1977, Central Trunk Line was opened, which goes along western boundary of the province, and which connects Kraków and Katowice, with Warsaw. In the early 1980s, construction of a highway between Kraków and Katowice began. The 61-kilometer road is now run by Stalexport Autostrada Małopolska, and is part of A4 highway.\n\nResidents of Lesser Poland frequently protested against Communist government. Major centers of anti-Communist resistance were in Kraków, Nowa Huta, Radom, and Lublin. Among major protests that took place in the province were 1968 Polish political crisis (with Kraków as one of major centers of protests), June 1976 protests (in Radom), Lublin 1980 strikes, 31 August 1982 demonstrations in Poland (in several locations), 1988 Polish strikes (with Stalowa Wola as one of major centers). Several anti-Nazi, and anti-Communist leaders hailed from Lesser Poland: Jan Piwnik, Emil August Fieldorf, Leopold Okulicki, Ryszard Siwiec, Stanisław Pyjas, Hieronim Dekutowski, Andrzej Gwiazda, Andrzej Czuma.\n\nA number of key personalities of Communist government were born in Lesser Poland, including Józef Cyrankiewicz, Bolesław Bierut, Edward Gierek, Wojciech Jaruzelski, Czesław Kiszczak, Stanisław Kania, Hilary Minc, Edward Ochab, Michał Rola-Żymierski, Józef Oleksy.\n\nAmong prominent personalities of Polish cultural life of the 20th century, who were born in Lesser Poland, there are: Xawery Dunikowski, Witold Gombrowicz, Gustaw Herling-Grudziński, Sławomir Mrożek, Tadeusz Kantor, Jan Kanty Pawluśkiewicz, Marek Kondrat, Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska, Krzysztof Penderecki, Zbigniew Preisner, Leon Schiller, Jerzy Stuhr, Jan Sztaudynger, Grzegorz Turnau, Jerzy Turowicz.\n\nIn 1998, the government of Poland carried out administrative reform of the country. For the first time in history, Lesser Poland Voivodeship was created, with capital in Kraków, and area of 15,108 square kilometers. The new province covers only a small, southwestern part of historical Lesser Poland.\n\nToday, Lesser Poland is divided between several voivodeships: whole Lesser Poland Voivodeship, whole Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, western half of Lublin Voivodeship, western part of Subcarpathian Voivodeship, eastern half of Silesian Voivodeship, southern part of Mazovian Voivodeship and southeastern corner of Łódź Voivodeship (around Opoczno).\n\nThere were suggestions that Lesser Poland voivodeship should stretch from Bielsko-Biała, to Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski and Sandomierz. Furthermore, creation of Old Poland Voivodeship was proposed, on the historical lands of northern Lesser Poland. Also, since about half of territory of current Silesian Voivodeship belongs to historical Lesser Poland, there are suggestions to rename it into \"Silesian – Lesser Poland Voivodeship\".\n\nThe list is based on the Polish Central Statistical Office list of 100 biggest cities of Poland, as for 30 June 2008.\nIn the Kingdom of Poland and Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, several other locations used to be important urban centers of Lesser Poland, but in the course of the time, their significance declined. The main example is Sandomierz, which for hundreds of years was one of the most important cities of Poland, but now is a town of 25,000. Other examples of historically important places, which are now little towns or villages are:\n\nHistory of industry in Lesser Poland goes back to prehistoric times, when in Świętokrzyskie Mountains, first bloomeries were constructed. In the Middle Ages, first plants were opened in that area, and as a result, Old-Polish Industrial Region was created, which was a major industrial region of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. In the 17th century, first Polish blast furnaces were constructed in Samsonów by Italian engineer Hieronim Caccio. Apart from iron products, used for military purposes, Old-Polish Industrial Region also manufactured charcoal and glass. In 1782, in Poland there were 34 bloomeries, out of which 27 were located in Old-Polish Industrial Region. Another major industrial area of Lesser Poland is Zagłębie Dąbrowskie, where in the 16th century, lead, silver, and zinc were found. As early as in the 15th century, coal was exctracted in Trzebinia – Siersza, and in the following centuries, especially in the 19th century, several coal mines and steel mills were opened in Zagłębie and in Zagłębie Krakowskie (first coal mine in Jaworzno was opened in 1792). In nearby Olkusz, the history of zinc mining dates to the 12th century when Casimir II the Just set up a mining settlement. Also, in the towns of Wieliczka and Bochnia, salt mines were established in the 12th and 13th centuries (see Bochnia Salt Mine, Wieliczka Salt Mine).\n\nIn the 20th century, natural resources were also discovered in central and eastern counties Lesser Poland.\nIn 1964, the world's largest open-pit sulfur mine was opened in Machów near Tarnobrzeg. Other sulfur deposits in the area of Tarnobrzeg are Jeziorko, Grzybów-Gacki, and Grębów-Wydza. The mine at Machów is now closed. In the late 1960s, eastern Lesser Poland became one of three coal basins of the country, when Lublin Basin was created. Major coal mine in the area is KWK Bogdanka near Łęczna, which is the only coal mine in Poland which has continuously generated a profit. Other Polish coal mines located in Lesser Poland are those found in western part of the province, along the boundary with Upper Silesia – KWK Janina in Jaworzno, KWK Sobieski, and also in Jaworzno. Copper and silver are extracted in Myszków (see Myszków mine).\n\nIn the late 1930s, the government of the Second Polish Republic created Central Industrial Region, which was almost exclusively located in Lesser Poland. Currently, within borders of the province, there are following industrial regions:\n\nIn 2009, Polityka weekly made its own list of 500 biggest Polish companies. According to the list, second biggest company of the country was Polska Grupa Energetyczna, which, as Polityka stated, is headquartered in Lublin. Third biggest company of Poland in 2009 was \"Fiat Auto Poland\" from Bielsko-Biała. Other Lesser Polish companies which ranked high were: \"BP Poland\" from Kraków (ranked 12th), \"Emperia Holding\" from Lublin (ranked 26th), Kolporter Holding from Kielce (ranked 43rd), and Żywiec Brewery (ranked 44th). Other major companies of Lesser Poland are \"Azoty Tarnów\", Bank BPH, Bogdanka Coal Mine, Carlsberg Polska, Comarch, \"Dębica SA\", \"Huta Częstochowa\", \"Huta Katowice\", Fablok, FŁT-Kraśnik, Huta Stalowa Wola, \"Instal-Lublin\", Janina Coal Mine, Jaworzno Power Station, Kozienice Power Station, Łucznik Arms Factory, \"Nowiny Cement Plant\" near Kielce, Połaniec Power Station, PZL Mielec, PZL-Świdnik, Sobieski Coal Mine, Tadeusz Sendzimir Steelworks.\n\nSince the lands of historical Lesser Poland belong now to different voivodeships, unemployment rate differs from one region to another. In January 2010, in Poland the unemployment rate was 12,7%. In Silesian Voivodeship, eastern half of which is Lesser Poland, it was 9,9%, in Lesser Poland Voivodeship – 10,5%, in Subcarpathian Voivodeship – 16,3%, in Holy Cross Voivodeship – 15,5%, in Lublin Voivodeship – 13,6%, and in Mazovian Voivodeship (southern part of which is Lesser Poland) – 9,6%. In Lesser Poland's cities, the best situation was in Kraków (as for November 2009), where 4,1% had no job. In Bielsko-Biała, the rate was 5,7%, in Lublin – 8,8%, in Siedlce – 9,1%, in Tarnów – 9,2%, in Nowy Sącz – 10%, in Kielce and Częstochowa – 10,1%, in Jaworzno – 10,2%, in Dąbrowa Górnicza – 10,3%, in Sosnowiec – 12,2%, and in Tarnobrzeg – 14,3%. The worst situation on the job market (as for November 2009) was in Radom, where unemployment rate was 20,9% (it made Radom second worst city county of the nation, only after Grudziądz).\n\nSeveral European roads (see International E-road network) cross Lesser Poland. The most important one is the European route E40, which goes from west to east, across whole Europe. In Lesser Poland, the E40 goes from Jaworzno, via Kraków and Tarnów, towards eastern border of the country. Another main European road in Lesser Poland is the E77, which goes from north to south, via Radom, Kielce and Kraków, to southern border of Poland at Chyżne. Third major European road in Lesser Poland is the E30, which crosses the territory of the province in its extreme northeast corner, in Siedlce. Apart from these roads, Lesser Poland is crossed by the following European routes:\n\nWithin borders of historical Lesser Poland, there are two airports – John Paul II International Airport Kraków – Balice, and Katowice International Airport, which is located in the village of Pyrzowice, on the border between Lesser Poland and Upper Silesia. Pyrzowice is part of Gmina Ożarowice, which after Partitions of Poland, and Congress of Vienna belonged to Będzin County of the Russian Empire. In the interbellum, the area of future airport belonged to Lesser Poland's Kielce Voivodeship, and in 1945, was transferred to Katowice Voivodeship (initially \"Silesian-Dąbrowa Voivodeship\"). In 1998, Ożarowice, together with the airport, was attached to Tarnowskie Góry County, despite the fact that it is not located in Upper Silesia\n\nFurther airports in Lesser Poland will be opened in the future – Lublin – Świdnik, Kielce – Obice, and Radom – Sadków. Also, Rzeszów-Jasionka Airport is located on eastern border of the province.\n\nRailroad network of Lesser Poland is very unevenly distributed. It is very dense in the west, along the border with Upper Silesia, and sparse in the east, especially along the Vistula, and around Lublin. All major cities of the province are connected with each other, however traveling from Kraków to Lublin is time-consuming, as trains have to take an extended route, via Kielce, Radom, and Dęblin. Also, there is no direct connection between Tarnów and Kielce, as these cities belonged to different countries before 1918. Underdevelopment of the railroads in northern and eastern Lesser Poland is the result of the policy of the Russian Empire. For military reasons, the Russians were not interested in construction of a dense network of lines along the border with Germany and Austria-Hungary, allowing only the construction of narrow-gauge connections. Along the Vistula, between Kraków and Dęblin (the distance of some 320 kilometers), there are only four rail bridges – in Dęblin (rebuilt after the war, in 1947), in Sandomierz (built in 1928), in Tarnobrzeg-Nagnajów (built in 1961, together with a road bridge), and in Zaduszniki (built in 1979 for the Broad Gauge Metallurgy Line). In Kraków itself, there are three rail bridges over the Vistula.\n\nAmong rail hubs of Lesser Poland, there are Bielsko-Biała, Chabówka, Częstochowa, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Dębica, Dęblin, Jaworzno-Szczakowa, Kalwaria Zebrzydowska Lanckorona, Kielce, Koniecpol, Kozłów, Kraków, Lublin, Łuków, Muszyna, Nowy Sącz, Oświęcim, Siedlce, Spytkowice, Skarżysko-Kamienna, Stalowa Wola, Stróże, Sucha Beskidzka, Radom, Tarnów, Trzebinia, Tunel, Zawiercie, and Żywiec.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the Communist government built the broad-gauge Broad Gauge Metallurgy Line, which crosses Lesser Poland from west to east along the Vistula.\n\nThe historical capital of Lesser Poland – Kraków – is regarded as the cultural capital of Poland, while Zakopane is considered the winter capital of Poland. In 1978, UNESCO placed Kraków's Old Town on the list of World Heritage Sites. From Sandomierz to Kraków goes the re-established Lesser Polish Way, one of the routes of the medieval Way of St. James. Every year, hundreds of thousands of tourists come to Lesser Poland, to see its historic cities – Sandomierz, Kazimierz Dolny, Zakopane, Biecz, Opatów, Szydłów, Lublin, and Kraków. Famous Jasna Góra Monastery in Częstochowa, spiritual capital of the country, attracts hundreds of thousands of pilgrims, as well as Auschwitz concentration camp (also placed on the UNESCO World Heritage Sites List). Lesser Poland has many museums, the city of Kraków itself has about sixty of them. Among the most famous are The Czartoryski Museum, The Galicia Jewish Museum, The National Museum, Kraków, Polish Aviation Museum, Sukiennice Museum, and Wawel Castle. There are museums in other locations of the province, such as Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, Bielsko-Biała Museum, Holy Father John Paul II Family Home in Wadowice, \"Jacek Malczewski Museum in Radom\", \"Lublin Museum\", \"Museum of Częstochowa\", \"Museum of Sandomierz Diocese\", \"Museum of Żywiec Brewery\", \"Museum of Zagłębie in Będzin\", Przypkowscy Clock Museum, \"Regional Museum in Wiślica\", \"Regional Museum in Siedlce\", \"Tytus Chałubiński Tatra Museum in Zakopane\".\n\nAmong other major places of interest of the province are: Baranów Sandomierski Castle, Będzin Castle, Chęciny Castle, Czarnolas, Dunajec river castles, Kalwaria Zebrzydowska park (UNESCO World Heritage Sites List), Krzyżtopór, Lipnica Murowana, Lublin Castle, Łysa Góra, Maczuga Herkulesa, Majdanek concentration camp, Niedzica Castle, Ogrodzieniec, Pieskowa Skała, Temple of the Sibyl, Trail of the Eagles' Nests, Wieliczka Salt Mine (UNESCO World Heritage Sites List), Wooden Churches of Southern Lesser Poland (UNESCO World Heritage Sites List). Furthermore, thousands of tourists come to Radom in northern Lesser Poland, to watch the popular, biannual Radom Air Show. Lesser Poland has a number of open-air museums – \"Góra Birów\" in Kraków-Częstochowa Upland, \"Museum of Kielce Village\" in Kielce, \"Museum of Lublin Village\" in Lublin, \"Museum of Folk Culture\" in Kolbuszowa, \"Museum of Radom Village\" in Radom, \"Vistula River Etnographic Park\" in Babice, \"Nowy Sącz Etnographic Park\" in Nowy Sącz, \"Orawa Etnographic Park\" in Zubrzyca Górna, \"Chabówka Rolling-Stock Heritage Park\" in Chabówka. The Małopolska Institute of Culture, located in Kraków, promotes the activities of regional museums and smaller sites of interest.\n\nLesser Poland is famous for its underground waters and spas, such as Busko-Zdrój, Solec-Zdrój, Nałęczów, Muszyna, Szczawnica, Piwniczna, Wysowa-Zdrój, Rabka, Swoszowice, Żegiestów, Krzeszowice, Wieliczka, and Krynica-Zdrój. Mountains and resorts of the province make it a major center of Polish tourism – Tatra National Park is visited by around 3 million tourists every year.\n\nThe following National Parks are located in Lesser Poland:\n\nLesser Poland is home to Poland's oldest university – Kraków's Jagiellonian University, which was established in 1364. For centuries, it was the only college of the province, and of the whole country. In December 1918, John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin was opened, becoming second university of Lesser Poland. In 1944, also in Lublin, Maria Curie-Skłodowska University was established.\n\nThere are several technical universities in Lesser Poland – Kraków's AGH University of Science and Technology, and University of Technology, as well as University of Bielsko-Biała, Częstochowa University of Technology, Lublin University of Technology, Kazimierz Pułaski Technical University of Radom, and Kielce University of Technology.\n\nFuture teachers may study at Pedagogical University of Cracow, or Jan Długosz University in Częstochowa, and future physicians at Jagiellonian University Medical College, and Medical University of Lublin. Other state colleges are Jan Kochanowski University in Kielce, Pontifical University of John Paul II in Kraków, Agricultural University of Cracow, University of Life Sciences in Lublin, and Cracow University of Economics. Unique in the country is the Polish Air Force Academy, located in Dęblin. Among private colleges of Lesser Poland, there is Wyższa Szkoła Biznesu – National-Louis University in Nowy Sącz.\n\nSince Lesser Poland ceased to exist as a unified region in the late 18th century, during the Partitions of Poland, most of its inhabitants are not aware of their heritage. Even the residents of Jaworzno, a city which for centuries belonged to Kraków Land and only in 1975 was transferred to Katowice Voivodeship (see Voivodeships of Poland (1975–98)), are not familiar with their Lesser Polish roots. In a poll in April 2011, 57% of Jaworzno's inhabitants stated that their city is historically tied with Lesser Poland, but as many as 36% said their city is tied with Upper Silesia. Polish linguist Jan Miodek emphasizes the fact that linguistically, Będzin is closer to Myślenice than to Tarnowskie Góry, only 20 km away. Miodek wrote that even though Upper Silesia and Lesser Poland's Zagłębie Dąbrowskie are industrially and administratively tied, both regions are culturally and linguistically different from each other. Residents of Zagłębie Dąbrowskie are known for their dislike of Upper Silesians, whom they call \"hanysy\", while the Silesians call them \"gorole\". In recent years, more inhabitants of Zagłębie become aware of their Lesser Poland's heritage, Also, after Partitions of Poland, when Austrian province of Galicia was created, the cities of Rzeszów and Przemyśl, which are part of historical Red Ruthenia, became to be associated with Lesser Poland. Therefore, currently the notion of Lesser Poland most commonly applies to the two voivodeships which in the past belonged to Austrian Empire – Lesser Poland Voivodeship, and Subcarpathian Voivodeship\n\nAmong several Lesser Poland's regional organizations, one of the most important is \"Stowarzyszenie Gmin i Powiatów Małopolski\" (\"The Association of Villages and Counties of Lesser Poland\"). It publishes a magazine called \"Wspólnota Małopolska\" (\"Lesser Polish Community\"), and every year it chooses a \"Lesser Polish Person of the Year\" (among winners are John Paul II, Anna Dymna, and Stanisław Dziwisz). \"The Association of Villages and Counties of Lesser Poland\" has over 120 members from four Polish voivodeships. Among members are cities of Kraków, Częstochowa, Bielsko-Biała, Tarnów, and Przemyśl.\n\nArguably, the most famous product of Lesser Polish cuisine is the bagel, which was invented in Kraków. Other famous food specialties of the province are oscypek (EU Protected Geographical Status), slivovitz from the village of Łącko, bublik, papal cream cake from Wadowice, Lisiecka Sausage (EU Protected Geographical Status), and Bryndza Podhalańska. Among other popular products that are made in Lesser Poland, there are beers (Browary Lubelskie, Żywiec Beer, and Okocim Beer), pastas and snacks from Lublin's Lubella, Kielce Mayonnaise, coffee substitute beverage INKA from Skawina, chocolates from Kraków's Wawel Factory, juices from Tymbark, vodka Żołądkowa Gorzka produced in Lublin, and Chopin produced in Siedlce.\n\nFolk costumes from Lesser Poland are widely known across the country – a dancing couple, dressed in traditional Kraków costume (Krakowiacy), is presented on the logo of renowned Żywiec beer, and Podhale is one of few Polish regions, where people regularly wear their traditional costumes. Both Kraków and Podhale folk costumes are among most popular garbs in Poland. Other folk costumes from the region are those of Zagłębie Dąbrowskie, Sandomierz, Rzeszów, Częstochowa, Kielce, Radom (regarded as the most traditional of all Polish costumes), Opoczno, Holy Cross Mountains, Nowy Sącz, and Lublin. There are several folk festivals in Lesser Poland, such as \"On the frontier of Lesser Poland and Mazovia\" (in Opoczno), \"Folk Festival of Józef Myszka\" (in Museum of Radom Village in Iłża), annual \"Days of Lesser Poland's Cultural Heritage\", \"Week of the Beskidy Culture\" (in several locations), Wianki in Kraków, \"Festival of Old Music and Culture\" in Niepołomice, \"Festival of Folk Bands and Folk Singers\" in Kazimierz Dolny, \"International Folklore Meetings of Ignacy Wachowiak\" in Lublin, \"International Festival of Folklore of Mountain Lands\" in Zakopane, Jewish Culture Festival in Kraków. Krakowiak is one of Polish national dances, other popular Lesser Poland's folk dances are \"Zbójnicki\" from Podhale and dances from Lublin. Among Lesser Poland's customs are Lajkonik, and Kraków szopka.\n\nSeveral renowned sportspeople and entertainers come from Lesser Poland. Among them are some of the most famous personalities of contemporary Polish sports – boxer Tomasz Adamek, Formula 1 driver Robert Kubica, swimmer Paweł Korzeniowski, skier Justyna Kowalczyk, tennis player Agnieszka Radwańska, football and volleyball stars Jakub Błaszczykowski, Artur Boruc, and Piotr Gruszka. Among late and retired sports stars who were born in the region, there also are Polish Sportspersonalities of the Year: tennis player and Wimbledon finalist Jadwiga Jędrzejowska, skier Józef Łuszczek, ski jumper Stanisław Marusarz, and driver Sobiesław Zasada.\n\nKraków's major association football teams – KS Cracovia, and Wisła Kraków, are multiple champions of the country, also Stal Mielec won Polish championship twice (1973, 1976), and Garbarnia Kraków once (1931). Other popular football teams from Lesser Poland are Zagłębie Sosnowiec (four time Polish Cup winner), Górnik Łęczna, Korona Kielce, Motor Lublin, Radomiak Radom, Raków Częstochowa, Stal Stalowa Wola, and Sandecja Nowy Sącz.\n\nBesides association football, Lesser Poland's teams were multiple national champions in other sports:\n\n\nMajor sports venues of the province are Stadion Miejski in Kraków, Kielce City Stadium, Marshal Józef Piłsudski Stadium in Kraków, Miejski Stadion Sportowy \"KSZO\" w Ostrowcu Sw., Stadion Ludowy in Sosnowiec, Dębowiec Sports Arena in Bielsko-Biała, \"Hala Legionów\" in Kielce, \"Hala Globus\" in Lublin, \"Arena Częstochowa\", \"Kielce Racetrack\", \"Hala Sportowa MOSiR\" in Radom, Wielka Krokiew in Zakopane.\n\nAmong popular rock music bands from Lesser Poland, there are Budka Suflera, Golec uOrkiestra, Maanam, and Zakopower. From Lesser Poland hail composers Jan Kanty Pawluśkiewicz, and Krzysztof Penderecki, as well as singers Basia, Ewa Demarczyk, Justyna Steczkowska, Grzegorz Turnau, Maciej Zembaty. Major music festivals in the province are: \"Coke Live Music Festival\" in Kraków, \"Celtic Music Festival ZAMEK\" in Będzin, \"Film Music Festival\" in Kraków, \"Gaude Mater\" in Częstochowa, \"Boyscout's Festival of School Music\" in Kielce, \"Summer with Chopin\" in Busko-Zdrój, \"Festiwal of Shanties\" in Kraków, and \"Festival of Student Song\" in Kraków.\n\nLesser Polish dialect is spoken in southeastern corner of Poland, both in lands which belong to historical Lesser Poland, and in areas which are not part of the province (around Sieradz and Łęczyca). On the other hand, as seen on the map, Lesser Polish dialect is not spoken in extreme northeast of Lesser Poland, in Siedlce and vicinity, where people rather speak Masovian dialect. Descending from the language of the Vistulans, it is the most numerous dialectal group in modern Poland. According to Wincenty Pol, it is divided into three subdivisions: Sandomierz dialect, Lublin dialect, and Sanok dialect.\n\nIn the Middle Ages and Renaissance, Lesser Polish dialect, together with Greater Polish dialect, contributed to creation of standard Polish, it also greatly influenced Silesian language (see Dialects of the Polish language), as well as dialects of Polish used in southern part of Kresy Wschodnie. Later on, however, its importance diminished and was replaced by Masovian dialect, which became the leading dialect of Polish. After Partitions of Poland, when Lesser Poland was divided between Austria and Russia, northern areas of the province took over many features of the Masovian dialect, while Lesser Polish dialect in Austrian province of Galicia was heavily influenced by German.\n\nAccording to Multimedia Guide to Polish Dialects, a webpage maintained by University of Warsaw, Lesser Polish dialect is divided into the following subdialects:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44291139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44291139", "title": "Martin Nag", "text": "Martin Nag\n\nMartin Gunnar Nag (30 July 1927 – 2 May 2015) was a Norwegian literary historian, literary critic, poet, essayist, translator and biographer. He was born in Stavanger.\n\nHe was a specialist on Slavic literature, and has translated Russian, Bulgarian and Czech literature into Norwegian language. Among his books are \"Uro, Rød lørdag\" from 1976 and \"Steingjerde\" from 1991. He has published works on Norwegian writers, such as Knut Hamsun, Sigbjørn Obstfelder, Rudolf Nilsen, Nordahl Grieg and Alexander Kielland, as well as Russian writers, including Dostoyevsky, Turgenev and Tolstoy. Not appointed to the academic position he desired, he was nonetheless a government scholar from 1987.\n\nNag issued his last book in the spring of 2015. He died in Oslo, Norway near the age of 88.\n"}
{"id": "3959352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959352", "title": "Napoleon Săvescu", "text": "Napoleon Săvescu\n\nNapoleon Săvescu (born June 24, 1946) is a Romanian-American physician known for being the supporter of some controversial theories regarding the origins and history of Dacians and Romanians. He is also the founder of the New York City-based \"Dacia Revival International Society\", which since 2000 is the organizer of the annually-held International Congress of Dacology.\n\nHis most famous theory says that the Romanians are not descendants of the Roman colonists and assimilated Dacians, as mainstream historians say, but that they are the descendants of only the Dacians, who spoke a language close to Latin. \n\nOther controversial theories of his include the Dacians (or their ancestors) developing of the first alphabet in the world (see the Tărtăria tablets), the first set of laws or the Dacian conquest of Western Europe, India, Iraq, Japan and the Americas.\n\nHis theories are, however, disregarded by historical journals and most historians, e.g. Mircea Babeş, Lucian Boia and Alexandra Tomiţă, who label these theories as pseudoscience and protochronistic and consider that there is not enough scientific evidence to support them.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26336250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26336250", "title": "Nationella dräkten", "text": "Nationella dräkten\n\nNationella dräkten (, \"the national costume\") is a historic Swedish costume, designed by King Gustav III and introduced in 1778. It was designed for the nobility and the middle class with the intention of limiting rising consumption and import of luxury within fashion, which was considered a drain on the economy and detrimental to society because of ensuing poverty. A masculine and a feminine costume were designed. The woman's version of the costume was to have a lasting effect, modified several times later, as the official costume of the Royal Court.\n\nPresented by Gustav III in 1778 without legislative action to make them mandatory, the costumes by royal recommendation were to be the official clothing of the nobility and the middle class (burghers). The clergy and peasant estates were excluded from the recommendation.\n\nIn motivating the reform and the name of the costume, the king stressed the importance of getting his Swedish subjects to stop emulating expensive foreign fashions. The idea stirred interest abroad, and especially in France opinions varied. Voltaire had this to say about it:\n\nBoth the female and male costumes had specific color requirements for court functionaries: black with red trim regularly, and light blue with white trim for formal occasions. Other persons were free to choose their own color combinations as long as they maintained the twotone design.\n\nThe female costume followed the fashion of the era, except for its collar and sleeves which were inspired by the Renaissance. It never caught on with a broader feminine populace, at first only being used at the Royal Court in the presence of the monarch. \n\nAfter the death of Gustav III, it became the official uniform worn at court by ladies in waiting and a customary dress for women formally presented at Court. The design of the dress subsequently continued to follow current fashions as time went on, but the basic look of the characteristic, vertically striped sleeves has been kept, and a specific color rule developed: black or very dark blue with white trim. The dress was used for women being presented at Court until 1952, and is still in use by Swedish ladies-in-waiting on formal occasions.\n\nThe male costume was much more original and included details from the Renaissance and the Caroline period of Swedish history. It was used at Court and by many officials during the reigns of Gustav III and his son Gustav IV Adolph and later also was in limited use as a sort of folk costume for townsmen in Stockholm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "404505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404505", "title": "Peace treaty", "text": "Peace treaty\n\nA peace treaty is an agreement between two or more hostile parties, usually countries or governments, which formally ends a state of war between the parties. It is different from an armistice, which is an agreement to stop hostilities, or a surrender, in which an army agrees to give up arms, or a ceasefire or truce in which the parties may agree to temporarily or permanently stop fighting.\n\nA treaty's content usually depends on the nature of the conflict being concluded. In the case of large conflicts between numerous parties there may be one international treaty covering all issues or separate treaties signed between each party.\n\nThere are many possible issues which may be included in a peace treaty. Some of these may be:\n\nIn modern times certain intractable conflict situations may first be brought to a ceasefire and are then dealt with via a peace process where a number of discrete steps are taken on each side to eventually reach the mutually desired goal of peace and the signing of a treaty. A peace treaty also is often not used to end a civil war, especially in cases of a failed secession, as it implies mutual recognition of statehood. In cases such as the American Civil War, it usually ends when the armies of the losing side surrender and the government collapse. By contrast, a successful secession or declaration of independence is often formalized by means of a peace treaty.\n\nTreaties are often ratified in territories deemed neutral in the previous conflict and delegates from these neutral territories act as witnesses to the signatories.\n\nSince its founding after World War II the United Nations has sought to act as a forum for resolution in matters of international conflict.\nA number of international treaties and obligations are involved in which member states seek to limit and control behavior during wartime. This has meant that the action of declaring war is very likely infrequent to be undertaken. \n\nSince the end of the Second World War, which had been more shocking than the First World War, the United Nations system has been established and Article 2, paragraph 4 - 9, of the UN Charter, has banned the use of military force. The UN Charter allows only two exceptions: \"military measures by UN Security Council resolutions\" and \"exercise of self-defense\" in countries subjected to armed attacks in relation to the use of force by States. Under the current UN system, war is only triggered by the enforcement of military measures under UN Security Council resolutions, or the exercise of self-defense rights against illegal armed attacks. In other words, the use of the term 'war' itself is being abandoned in the current international law system. Therefore, if the use of military force arises, it is called 'international armed conflict' instead of 'war'. The fact that the current international law system avoids the use of the term war also avoids the conclusion of a peace treaty based on the existence of war. A peace treaty was not signed after the end of the Iraq war in 2003, and only the UN Security Council Resolution 1483, adopted on May 22, 2003, stipulated the postwar Iraqi regime for the stability and security of Iraq exclusively. \n\nOne of the UN roles in peace processes is to conduct post-conflict elections. Post-conflict elections on the whole are thought to have no effect, or even a negative effect, on peace after civil war. However, when peace agreements transform rebel groups into political parties, the effect on peace is positive, specifically if international interveners use these moments of power distribution to hold the former combatants to the terms of their peace agreement.\n\nProbably the earliest recorded peace treaty, although rarely mentioned or remembered, was between the Hittite Empire and the Hayasa-Azzi confederation, circa 1350 BC. More famously, one of the earliest recorded peace treaties was concluded between the Hittite and Egyptian empires after the ca.1274 BC Battle of Kadesh (see Egyptian-Hittite peace treaty). The battle took place in what is modern-day Syria, the entire Levant being at that time contested between the two empires. After an extremely costly four-day battle, in which neither side gained a substantial advantage, both sides claimed victory. The lack of resolution led to further conflict between Egypt and the Hittites, with Ramesses II capturing the city of Kadesh and Amurru in his 8th year as king. However, the prospect of further protracted conflict between the two states eventually persuaded both their rulers, Hatusiliš III and Ramesses, to end their dispute and sign a peace treaty. Neither side could afford the possibility of a longer conflict since they were threatened by other enemies: Egypt was faced with the task of defending her long western border with Libya against the incursion of Libyan tribesmen by building a chain of fortresses stretching from Mersa Matruh to Rakotis, while the Hittites faced a more formidable threat in the form of the Assyrian Empire, which \"had conquered Hanigalbat, the heartland of Mitanni, between the Tigris and the Euphrates\" rivers that had previously been a Hittite vassal state.\n\nThe peace treaty was recorded in two versions, one in Egyptian hieroglyphs, and the other in Akkadian using cuneiform script; both versions survive. Such dual-language recording is common to many subsequent treaties. This treaty differs from others, however, in that the two language versions are worded differently. Although the majority of the text is identical, the Hittite version claims that the Egyptians came suing for peace, while the Egyptian version claims the reverse. The treaty was given to the Egyptians in the form of a silver plaque, and this \"pocket-book\" version was taken back to Egypt and carved into the Temple of Karnak.\n\nThe Treaty was concluded between Ramesses II and Hatusiliš III in Year 21 of Ramesses' reign (c.1258 BC). Its eighteen articles call for peace between Egypt and Hatti and then proceed to maintain that their respective gods also demand peace. It contains many elements found in more modern treaties, but is more far-reaching than later treaties' simple declaration of the end of hostilities. It also contains a mutual-assistance pact in the event that one of the empires should be attacked by a third party, or in the event of internal strife. There are articles pertaining to the forced repatriation of refugees and provisions that they should not be harmed; this might be thought of as the first extradition treaty. There are also threats of retribution, should the treaty be broken.\n\nThis treaty is considered of such importance in the field of international relations that a reproduction of it hangs in the United Nations headquarters.\n\nFamous examples include the Treaty of Paris (1815), signed after Napoleon's defeat at the Battle of Waterloo, and the Treaty of Versailles, formally ending the First World War conflict between Germany and the Western Allies. This is held to have ended World War I completely, but in fact that did not happen until the Allies concluded peace with the Ottoman Empire in 1920 through the Treaty of Sèvres. The Versailles treaty is possibly the most notorious of peace treaties, in that it is \"blamed\" by many historians for the rise of National Socialism in Germany and the eventual outbreak of the Second World War in 1939. The costly reparations that Germany was forced to pay the victors, the fact that Germany had to accept sole responsibility for starting the war, and the harsh restrictions on German rearmament were all listed in the treaty and caused massive resentment in Germany. Whether the Treaty of Versailles can be blamed for starting another war or not, it shows the difficulties involved in making peace. It might be noted that no such conflict resulted from the more punitive settlement with the Ottomans.\n\nAnother famous example would be the series of peace treaties known as the Peace of Westphalia. It initiated modern diplomacy, involving the modern system of nation-states. Subsequent wars were no longer over religion, but rather revolved around issues of state. This allowed Catholic and Protestant powers to ally, leading to a number of major realignments.\n\nThe Korean War is an example of a war which was stopped by the 1953 but it was not closed with a peace treaty. This means that the Korean War has never technically ended. \nRespecting the latest example of peace treaty, in order to end the Vietnam War, on January 27, 1973, the United States declared the peace treaty among the USA, North Vietnam, South Vietnam. It was signed with the name as 'Paris Peace Accords' \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14354202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14354202", "title": "Revolutionary integrationism", "text": "Revolutionary integrationism\n\nRevolutionary Integrationism is an analysis, philosophy, and program for resolving the \"black question\"—the problem of the superoppression of blacks, and their liberation—in the United States.\n\nRevolutionary Integrationism has its origins in the fight against slavery by Frederick Douglass and other abolitionists before the Civil War, and in the \"New Negro\" movement in the 1900s-1910s around the \"Crisis\" journal's 1919 articles by NAACP field marshal Walter White and other of his writings, Carrie Clifford, Alfred Kreymborg, and especially, the black Communist poet Claude McKay, Max Eastman's and Crystal Eastman's \"Liberator\", as well as A. Philip Randolph's and Chandler Owen's \"Messenger.\" In the 1930s through 1960s, the \"RI\" doctrine was developed in the main by Trotskyists--Max Shachtman, Oliver Cox, Daniel Guérin, Richard S. Fraser, James Robertson, as well as by non-Trotskyists such as James Baldwin. These activists argued that the struggle for equality by blacks in the United States was the main current in black history, and that equality could only be accomplished via a socialist revolution by the entire working class. They disagreed with the opinion of socialist thinkers like Leon Trotsky and C.L.R. James in the 1930s, and with George Breitman and the majority of the Socialist Workers Party (US) in the late 1950s. Such thinkers argued that Black nationalism was a transitional demand toward socialism. They also disagreed with Joseph Stalin and his followers in the Communist Party USA (CPUSA), who initiated this adaptation to black nationalism within the U.S. Marxist movement.\n\nRevolutionary integrationism disputes the assertion of these thinkers, and other Leftists and liberals, that blacks in America potentially constitute a \"nation\", that blacks require separate organizations from whites, and that such organizations might constitute a separate or autonomous second \"vanguard\", which would cooperate, but not be integrated into, a \"white\" Marxist American vanguard party.\n\nRevolutionary Integrationists argue that equality rather than national liberation should be advocated by revolutionary socialists, that this equality can be accomplished through a class struggle of black and white workers and that such a revolution can be led by members of both races. It was most strongly opposed during the 1960s to the ideas of Malcolm X, the Black Panther Party and other Black Nationalist organizations.\n\nA central part of this idea is the rejection of the possibility of African Americans forming a distinct nation in the United States.\n\nThe Revolutionary Integrationists argue that:\n\nRadical integrationism argues that it is impossible, contra the assertions of liberal assimilationists such as Gunnar Myrdal and the early Martin Luther King, for blacks to be integrated into a \"capitalist\" U.S. society. Integration, it is argued, can only be achieved in a socialist society. Revolutionary integrationism must not be confused with \"cultural\" assimilation, either. Culturally, as Randolph Bourne and James Baldwin argued, the culture of America itself must change, for genuine \"integration\" to take place. Thus leading black workers must be educated to see the fight for socialism as integral to their own struggle for emancipation, and fully integrated into the rank and file and leadership of a future U.S. Bolshevik-Leninist party. In turn,this process of racial integration must be fully integrated into the transitional demands made by socialists. Such demands as worker control of hiring, organize the South, organize unions of the unemployed, organize the unorganized, full employment through public works, armed self-defense of black neighborhoods (\"block patrols\") must be fully taken up by Leninists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRandolph Bourne, \"Transnational America,\"\nSidney Finkelstein, \"Art and Society\" International Publishers, 1947.\n\nO'Reilly, Kenneth, \"Racial Matters\": The FBI's Secret File on Black America, 1960 - 1972, New York: The Free Press, 1989. Cited by Gary Foley, J. Edgar Hoover and the American Civil Rights Movement, at \n"}
{"id": "28310855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28310855", "title": "Rusty Frank", "text": "Rusty Frank\n\nRusty Frank is an American tap dancer, producer, writer, choreographer, lindy hopper, historian and tap-dance preservationist.\n\nRusty Frank was born in Hollywood, California and raised in Los Angeles. She began dancing at age six, inspired as a child by watching classic American films of the 1930s and '40s, especially those of Shirley Temple. Frank attended the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she majored in Environmental Planning and Public Policy and graduated with double honors. She then attended the University of San Francisco, where she received her Master's degree in Public Administration.\n\nRusty Frank runs the largest swing dance program in Los Angeles through her swing dance school, Lindy by the Sea, and her weekly swing dance, Rusty's Rhythm Club.\n\nIn 1989, Frank founded On Tap, through which she produces instructional-historical tap and swing dance DVDs.\n\nWhile attending college, Frank began dancing in stage productions, and her first show was \"Minnie's Boys,\" followed by \"Stan Freberg Presents The United States of America.\" In 1978, she moved to San Francisco, California and by the early 1980s was appearing regularly in musical shows, including: \"Dames At Sea,\" \"Babes In Arms,\" \"42nd Street\" with Diablo Civic Light Opera (DLOC), \"5,6,7,8,\" and \"Mack And Mabel.\"\n\nShe has tap danced professionally over the years with The San Francisco Tap Troupe, Six Feet a Tap Trio (Wayne Doba, Rodney Price), Pedal Extremities (Walter Freeman, Mark Mendonca, Michael Rainey), Tapology (Patti Meagher), The Rhythm Rascals (Walter Freeman), Mulligan and Whitmore \"Tops in Taps\" (Chester Whitmore), The Rhythm Pals (Alfred Desio), and with Greg Gast.\n\nIn 1989, 1990 and 1991, Frank produced, directed, and danced in an all-star tap revue \"Jazz Tap!\" featuring the Nicholas Brothers, Savion Glover, Arthur Duncan, Jeni LeGon and Brenda Bufalino. The show was performed at Kimball's East and the Sun Valley Lodge (where the movie Sun Valley Serenade took place).\n\nIn 1996, she began learning the Lindy Hop after she saw the English dance group The Jiving Lindy Hoppers perform. She partnered with Simon Selmon and moved to the United Kingdom for two years. She and Selmon made many appearances on television, in movies, on the radio, at festivals and special events. The team's high point came when they toured fifty-one European cities as the dance act for the big band stage show \"In The Mood – A Tribute to Glenn Miller\".\n\nIn the US, Frank has performed at such prestigious venues as Broadway's 42nd Street, at the Hollywood Bowl, at Disneyland and at the world-famous Derby in Hollywood.\n\nCurrently, she regularly performs her tap dance routines at downtown Los Angeles's 1920s-themed nightclub Maxwell DeMille's Cicada Club, housed inside the historic 1928 art deco James Oviatt Building. She teaches private and group dance lessons in Los Angeles and at international dance camps, works on her tap documentary and produces instructional dance DVDs.\n\nIn 1990, Rusty's book \"TAP! The Greatest Tap Dance Stars and Their Stories, 1900–1955\", was published in hardcover by William Morrow Press and in In March 1995, was reissued in soft cover by Da Capo Press. Actor and tap dancer Gregory Hines wrote the foreword to the book, for which she interviewed 30 tap-dance luminaries, including Ann Miller, Shirley Temple and Donald O'Connor. She has contributed to the Smithsonian Institution's Jazz Oral History project, along with the Encyclopædia Britannica, the Oxford Encyclopedia of Dance, The American National Biography, the Great Danish Encyclopedia, the jazz history \"Jazz: The First Century\", published by William Morrow and Company, and \"Discover Jazz,\" published by Pearson.\n\nRusty is producing a one-hour television special, \"TAP! Tempo of America\". She was the recipient of a National Endowment for the Arts grant to aid in making this dance documentary.\n\nShe has also appeared in numerous dance documentaries, including the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers box set documentary for Warner Home Video, the BBC's \"Fascinating Rhythms – The Story of Tap\", and \"This Joint is Jumpin\"' for Bravo. Rusty Frank is featured in Alive and Kicking, a feature-length documentary that takes an inside look into the people and culture of the Lindy Hop resurgence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59104000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59104000", "title": "Susan Myra Kingsbury", "text": "Susan Myra Kingsbury\n\nSusan Myra Kingsbury (October 18, 1870 – November 28, 1949) was an American professor of economics and a pioneer of social research.\n\nSusan was born in San Pablo, California in 1870, the daughter of Willard Belmont Kingsbury, M.D., and Helen Shuler née DeLamater, and was raised in Stockton, California. Her father died when she was six, leaving Helen to raise Susan and her brother. Helen was dean of women at the College of the Pacific, where Susan would matriculate then graduate with honors in 1890. From 1892–1900 she was a history teacher at Lowell High School in San Francisco, while tending to her ailing mother. She graduated with an A.M. in sociology from Stanford University in 1899, Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nFollowing the death of her mother, she moved to New York to study colonial economic history at Columbia University. In 1904, she taught history for a year at Vassar College. She graduated from Columbia with a Ph.D. in 1905, with a dissertation titled \"An Introduction to the Records of the Virginian Company of London.\" During her stay in London (1903–04), her readings inspired a personal interest in social reform. In 1906 she published the first of what would become a four volume set titled \"Records of the Virginian Company of London\", with the final volume being completed in 1933.\n\nDr. Kingsbury became director of investigation for the Massachusetts Commission on Industrial and Technical Education for a year beginning in 1905. The next year she accepted a position as instructor in history and economics at Simmons University, becoming head of the department. She gained the rank of associate professor in 1907. The same year she was also named director of research for the \"Women's Educational and Industrial Union\" in Boston. She served as president of the New England History Teachers Association in 1911. From 1911–13, she directed a national study of the opportunities for women in social service.\n\nHer various publications, including \"Labor Laws and Their Enforcement\" (1911) and \"Economic Efficiency of College Women\" (1911) caught the attention of Martha Carey Thomas, president of Bryn Mawr College. After listening to an address by Dr. Kingsbury in 1912, Thomas invited her to come to work at the College. In 1915 Dr. Kingsbury became director of the \"Carola Woerishoffer Graduate Department of Social Economy and Social Research\" at the college. This was the first graduate department in the country to train students for careers in social service.\n\nIn 1919 she helped found the American Association of Schools of Social Work in 1919, and served as vice president of the American Economic Association and the American Sociological Society. She and Thomas founded the Bryn Mawr Summer School for Women Workers in 1921. Susan was chairman of Pennsylvania's first minimum wage board and for nearly a decade served as chairman for the American Association of University Women Committee on Economic and Legislative Status on Women. During 1921–22 she toured China and India, then the Soviet Union in 1929–30, 1932, and 1936 to research conditions for women and children. She published her results of the Russia visits as co-author in 1935. She retired as professor emeritus of social economy at Bryn Mawr College in 1936.\n\nHer published works include:\n"}
{"id": "907995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907995", "title": "Venus of Tan-Tan", "text": "Venus of Tan-Tan\n\nThe Venus of Tan-Tan is an alleged artifact found in Morocco. It and its contemporary, the Venus of Berekhat Ram, have been claimed as the earliest representations of the human form. Critics, notably Professor Stanley Ambrose of the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, contend the rock's shape is the result of natural weathering and erosion which coincidentally produced a remotely human-like object, i.e., a geofact.\n\nThe object is a 6cm-long piece of quartzite rock dated to the Middle Acheulean period, between 300,000 and 500,000 years ago, which some have interpreted as a depiction of the human form, gender indeterminate and faceless. It was discovered in 1999, during an archaeological survey by Lutz Fiedler, state archaeologist of Hesse, Germany, in a river terrace deposit on the north bank of the Draa River a few kilometers south of the Moroccan town of Tan-Tan.\n\nAccording to its discoverer and others, e.g.Robert Bednarik, the object had been created by natural geological processes giving it a general human-like shape that was recognized by early man and was taken as a manuport. Then it was accentuated by carving it with a stone-wedge; \"a greasy substance\" on the stone's surface containing iron and manganese may be remnants of red ochre pigments used by humans to further accentuate the human-like form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4041205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4041205", "title": "Walsall Anarchists", "text": "Walsall Anarchists\n\nThe Walsall Anarchists were a group of anarchists arrested on explosive charges in Walsall in 1892.\n\nRecent research into police files has revealed that the bombings were instigated by Auguste Coulon, an \"agent provocateur\" of Special Branch Inspector William Melville, who would go on to become an early official of what became MI5.\n\nOn 6 January 1892, Joe Deakin, an anarchist from Walsall, was arrested on Tottenham Court Road, London on his way to the Autonomie Club. He was remanded in custody at Great Marlborough Street Magistrates Court the next day on a charge of manufacturing bombs. Following this court appearance, Inspector Melville went to Walsall and that evening arrested Victor Cails, a Frenchman, and Fred Charles at the Socialist Club in Goodall Street, Walsall. Later William Ditchfield and John Westley were arrested in Walsall and Jean Battola, an Italian, was arrested in London. Deakin and Battola were taken to Walsall to stand trial. They were all jointly charged with bomb making. At their first appearance at the Walsall police court, the prosecution asked for a week's remand on the grounds that \"[t]he authorities both in Walsall and London had received very important information with reference to what he might call a widespread conspiracy throughout the country.\"\n\nThe evidence presented was as follows:\n\nAll six were remanded in custody, although no explosives were actually found and there was no evidence as regards the other three defendants.\n\nUnder the false belief that Charles was a police spy, Deakin made a confession. However, his confession also implicated Auguste Coulon, a French anarchist, who worked as an assistant in the school set up by Louise Michel for the education of the children of the foreign socialists in London. He was also involved in trying to organise chemistry classes and translating and circulating information about bomb making. The police also arrested a Swiss inventor called Cavargna, who had invented some small explosive shells for exterminating rabbits in Australia. He was released after two days. A further person named McCormack, who had been recently expelled from the socialist club in Walsall, offered his services to the police, who soon decided he was unreliable. He went to Birmingham where he sold his story to the newspaper and got drunk on the proceeds. Arrested for being drunk and disorderly, he promptly declared in court next day that he had been employed by the police to fabricate evidence against the Walsall Anarchists. Charles Mowbray and David Nicholl were soon also arrested on conspiracy charges.\n\nFollowing his release, Nicholl was raising money for the Walsall anarchists when, by chance, Coulon's brother let slip that Coulon himself was a police agent. The defence brought up the situation at the police court and gave Coulon's address asking why he had not been arrested as well. After Nicholl had set up an anarchist defence fund, Edward Carpenter set up one which raised money in socialist circles. Their different political outlook was especially noticeable as regards to what extent they felt the whole trial was a case of police provocation.\n\nThe case aroused media attention, particularly around two texts: the \"Means of Emancipation\" and \"The Anarchist Feast at The Opera\"the latter was a detailed account of how to cause the maximum amount of carnage in an opera house by rupturing the gas supply and leaving incendiary devices in the seats, while the miscreant could make their escape. Following three bombings in Paris, the correspondent for \"The Times\" made the connection: 'Anarchists should not be regarded as members of a political party, and it should not be possible for an Anarchist to hurry away from Paris to find an asylum in Brussels, in Geneva or in London.' Ravachol was arrested for two of these bombings, and promptly made a confession.\n\nThe climate of the trial was not conducive to a sober consideration of the facts\"The Anarchist Feast at The Opera\" was read out as if it were the views of the defendants. The defense did not argue that it was a police plot. Charles, Cails and Battola were found guilty; Deakin guilty but with a recommendation for mercy; and Westley and Ditchfield not guilty. Those found guilty were allowed to make a statement, whereupon the first three stated they thought it was a police plot. Charles, Battola and Cails were given ten years each, and Deakin five. Although the judge denied he was punishing them for being anarchists, \"The Times\" was more to the point:\n\n'Alas! Alas! Ten years for Charles, it is too bad. An evil conscience makes them cowards.' wrote Edward Carpenter following the trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "44755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44755", "title": "William of Tyre", "text": "William of Tyre\n\nWilliam of Tyre (; 1130 – 29 September 1186) was a medieval prelate and chronicler. As archbishop of Tyre, he is sometimes known as William II to distinguish him from his predecessor, William I, the Englishman and former Prior of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, who was Archbishop of Tyre from 1127 to 1135. He grew up in Jerusalem at the height of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, which had been established in 1099 after the First Crusade, and he spent twenty years studying the liberal arts and canon law in the universities of Europe.\n\nFollowing William's return to Jerusalem in 1165, King Amalric made him an ambassador to the Byzantine Empire. William became tutor to the king's son, the future King Baldwin IV, whom William discovered to be a leper. After Amalric's death, William became chancellor and archbishop of Tyre, two of the highest offices in the kingdom, and in 1179 William led the eastern delegation to the Third Council of the Lateran. As he was involved in the dynastic struggle that developed during Baldwin IV's reign, his importance waned when a rival faction gained control of royal affairs. He was passed over for the prestigious Patriarchate of Jerusalem, and died in obscurity, probably in 1186.\n\nWilliam wrote an account of the Lateran Council and a history of the Islamic states from the time of Muhammad. Neither work survives. He is famous today as the author of a history of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. William composed his chronicle in excellent Latin for his time, with numerous quotations from classical literature. The chronicle is sometimes given the title \"Historia rerum in partibus transmarinis gestarum\" (\"History of Deeds Done Beyond the Sea\") or \"Historia Ierosolimitana\" (\"History of Jerusalem\"), or the \"Historia\" for short. It was translated into French soon after his death, and thereafter into numerous other languages. Because it is the only source for the history of twelfth-century Jerusalem written by a native, historians have often assumed that William's statements could be taken at face value. However, more recent historians have shown that William's involvement in the kingdom's political disputes resulted in detectable biases in his account. Despite this, he is considered the greatest chronicler of the crusades, and one of the best authors of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Kingdom of Jerusalem was founded in 1099 at the end of the First Crusade. It was the third of four Christian territories to be established by the crusaders, following the County of Edessa and the Principality of Antioch, and followed by the County of Tripoli. Jerusalem's first three rulers, Godfrey of Bouillon (1099–1100), his brother Baldwin I (1100–1118), and their cousin Baldwin II (1118–1131), expanded and secured the kingdom's borders, which encompassed roughly the same territory as modern-day Israel, Palestine, and Lebanon. During the kingdom's early decades, the population was swelled by pilgrims visiting the holiest sites of Christendom. Merchants from the Mediterranean city-states of Italy and France were eager to exploit the rich trade markets of the east.\n\nWilliam's family probably originated in either France or Italy, since he was very familiar with both countries. His parents were likely merchants who had settled in the kingdom and were \"apparently well-to-do\", although it is unknown whether they participated in the First Crusade or arrived later. William was born in Jerusalem around 1130. He had at least one brother, Ralph, who was one of the city's burgesses, a non-noble leader of the merchant community. Nothing more is known about his family, except that his mother died before 1165.\n\nAs a child William was educated in Jerusalem, at the cathedral school in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. The \"scholaster\", or school-master, John the Pisan, taught William to read and write, and first introduced him to Latin. From the \"Historia\" it is clear that he also knew French and possibly Italian, but there is not enough evidence to determine whether he learned Greek, Persian, and Arabic, as is sometimes claimed.\n\nAround 1145 William went to Europe to continue his education in the schools of France and Italy, especially in those of Paris and Bologna, \"the two most important intellectual centers of twelfth-century Christendom.\" These schools were not yet the official universities that they would become in the 13th century, but by the end of the 11th century both had numerous schools for the arts and sciences. They were separate from the cathedral schools, and were established by independent professors who were masters of their field of study. Students from all over Europe gathered there to hear lectures from these masters. William studied liberal arts and theology in Paris and Orléans for about ten years, with professors who had been students of Thierry of Chartres and Gilbert de la Porrée. He also spent time studying under Robert of Melun and Adam de Parvo Ponte, among others. In Orléans, one of the pre-eminent centres of classical studies, he read ancient Roman literature (known simply as \"the Authors\") with Hilary of Orléans, and learned mathematics (\"especially Euclid\") with William of Soissons. For six years, he studied theology with Peter Lombard and Maurice de Sully. Afterwards, he studied civil law and canon law in Bologna, with the \"Four Doctors\", Hugo de Porta Ravennate, Bulgarus, Martinus Gosia, and Jacobus de Boragine. William's list of professors \"gives us almost a who's who of the grammarians, philosophers, theologians, and law teachers of the so-called Twelfth-Century Renaissance\", and shows that he was as well-educated as any European cleric. His contemporary John of Salisbury had many of the same teachers.\n\nThe highest religious and political offices in Jerusalem were usually held by Europeans who had arrived on pilgrimage or crusade. William was one of the few natives with a European education, and he quickly rose through the ranks. After his return to the Holy Land in 1165, he became canon of the cathedral at Acre. In 1167 he was appointed archdeacon of the cathedral of Tyre by Frederick de la Roche, archbishop of Tyre, with the support of King Amalric.\n\nAmalric had come to power in 1164 and had made it his goal to conquer Egypt. Egypt had been invaded by King Baldwin I fifty years earlier, and the weak Fatimid Caliphate was forced to pay yearly tribute to Jerusalem. Amalric turned towards Egypt because Muslim territory to the east of Jerusalem had fallen under the control of the powerful Zengid sultan Nur ad-Din. Nur ad-Din had taken control of Damascus in 1154, six years after the disastrous siege of Damascus by the Second Crusade in 1148. Jerusalem could now expand only to the southwest, towards Egypt, and in 1153 Ascalon, the last Fatimid outpost in Palestine, fell to the crusaders. Nur ad-Din, however, also wished to acquire Egypt, and sent his army to hinder Amalric's plans. This was the situation in the east when William returned from Europe. In 1167 Amalric married Maria Comnena, grand-niece of Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus, and in 1168 the king sent William to finalize a treaty for a joint Byzantine-crusader campaign against Egypt. The expedition, Amalric's fourth, was the first with support from the Byzantine navy. Amalric, however, did not wait for the fleet to arrive. He managed to capture Damietta, but within a few years he was expelled from Egypt by one of Nur ad-Din's generals, Saladin, who would later become Jerusalem's greatest threat.\n\nMeanwhile, William continued his advancement in the kingdom. In 1169 he visited Rome, possibly to answer accusations made against him by Archbishop Frederick, although if so, the charge is unknown. It is also possible that while Frederick was away on a diplomatic mission in Europe, a problem within the diocese forced William to seek the archbishop's assistance.\n\nOn his return from Rome in 1170 he may have been commissioned by Amalric to write a history of the kingdom. He also became the tutor of Amalric's son and heir, Baldwin IV. When Baldwin was thirteen years old, he was playing with some children, who were trying to cause each other pain by scratching each other's arms. \"The other boys gave evidence of pain by their outcries,\" wrote William, \"but Baldwin, although his comrades did not spare him, endured it altogether too patiently, as if he felt nothing  ...  It is impossible to refrain from tears while speaking of this great misfortune.\" William inspected Baldwin's arms and recognized the possible symptoms of leprosy, which was confirmed as Baldwin grew older.\n\nAmalric died in 1174, and Baldwin IV succeeded him as king. Nur ad-Din also died in 1174, and his general Saladin spent the rest of the decade consolidating his hold on both Egypt and Nur ad-Din's possessions in Syria, which allowed him to completely encircle Jerusalem. The subsequent events have often been interpreted as a struggle between two opposing factions, a \"court party\" and a \"noble party.\" The \"court party\" was led by Baldwin's mother, Amalric's first wife Agnes of Courtenay, and her immediate family, as well as recent arrivals from Europe who were inexperienced in the affairs of the kingdom and were in favour of war with Saladin. The \"noble party\" was led by Raymond III of Tripoli and the native nobility of the kingdom, who favoured peaceful co-existence with the Muslims. This is the interpretation offered by William himself in the \"Historia\", and it was taken as fact by later historians. Peter W. Edbury, however, has more recently argued that William must be considered extremely partisan as he was naturally allied with Raymond, who was responsible for his later advancement in political and religious offices. The accounts of the 13th-century authors who continued the \"Historia\" in French must also be considered suspect, as they were allied to Raymond's supporters in the Ibelin family. The general consensus among recent historians is that although there was a dynastic struggle, \"the division was not between native barons and newcomers from the West, but between the king's maternal and paternal kin.\"\n\nMiles of Plancy briefly held the regency for the underaged Baldwin IV. Miles was assassinated in October 1174, and Raymond III was soon appointed to replace him. Raymond named William chancellor of Jerusalem, as well as archdeacon of Nazareth, and on 6 June 1175, William was elected archbishop of Tyre to replace Frederick de la Roche, who had died in October 1174. William's duties as chancellor probably did not take up too much of his time; the scribes and officials in the chancery drafted documents and it may not have even been necessary for him to be present to sign them. Instead he focused on his duties as archbishop. In 1177 he performed the funeral services for William of Montferrat, husband of Baldwin IV's sister Sibylla, when the patriarch of Jerusalem, Amalric of Nesle, was too sick to attend.\n\nIn 1179, William was one of the delegates from Jerusalem and the other crusader states at the Third Lateran Council; among the others were Heraclius, archbishop of Caesarea, Joscius, bishop of Acre and William's future successor in Tyre, the bishops of Sebastea, Bethlehem, Tripoli, and Jabala, and the abbot of Mount Sion. Patriarch Amalric and Patriarch of Antioch Aimery of Limoges were unable to attend, and William and the other bishops did not have sufficient weight to persuade Pope Alexander III of the need for a new crusade. William was, however, sent by Alexander as an ambassador to Emperor Manuel, and Manuel then sent him on a mission to the Principality of Antioch. William does not mention exactly what happened during these embassies, but he probably discussed the Byzantine alliance with Jerusalem, and Manuel's protectorate over Antioch, where, due to pressure from Rome and Jerusalem, the emperor was forced to give up his attempts to restore a Greek patriarch. William was absent from Jerusalem for two years, returning home in 1180.\n\nDuring William's absence a crisis had developed in Jerusalem. King Baldwin had reached the age of majority in 1176 and Raymond III had been removed from the regency, but as a leper Baldwin could have no children and could not be expected to rule much longer. After the death of William of Montferrat in 1177, King Baldwin's widowed sister Sibylla required a new husband. At Easter in 1180, the two factions were divided even further when Raymond and his cousin Bohemond III of Antioch attempted to force Sibylla to marry Baldwin of Ibelin. Raymond and Bohemond were King Baldwin's nearest male relatives in the paternal line, and could have claimed the throne if the king died without an heir or a suitable replacement. Before Raymond and Bohemond arrived, however, Agnes and King Baldwin arranged for Sibylla to be married to a Poitevin newcomer, Guy of Lusignan, whose older brother Aimery of Lusignan was already an established figure at court.\n\nThe dispute affected William, since he had been appointed chancellor by Raymond and may have fallen out of favour after Raymond was removed from the regency. When Patriarch Amalric died on 6 October 1180, the two most obvious choices for his successor were William and Heraclius of Caesarea. They were fairly evenly matched in background and education, but politically they were allied with opposite parties, as Heraclius was one of Agnes of Courtenay's supporters. It seems that the canons of the Holy Sepulchre were unable to decide, and asked the king for advice; due to Agnes' influence, Heraclius was elected. There were rumours that Agnes and Heraclius were lovers, but this information comes from the partisan 13th-century continuations of the \"Historia\", and there is no other evidence to substantiate such a claim. William himself says almost nothing about the election and Heraclius' character or his subsequent patriarchate, probably reflecting his disappointment at the outcome.\n\nWilliam remained archbishop of Tyre and chancellor of the kingdom, but the details of his life at this time are obscure. The 13th-century continuators claim that Heraclius excommunicated William in 1183, but it is unknown why Heraclius would have done this. They also claim that William went to Rome to appeal to the Pope, where Heraclius had him poisoned. According to Peter Edbury and John Rowe, the obscurity of William's life during these years shows that he did not play a large political role, but concentrated on ecclesiastical affairs and the writing of his history. The story of his excommunication, and the unlikely detail that he was poisoned, were probably an invention of the Old French continuators. William remained in the kingdom and continued to write up until 1184, but by then Jerusalem was internally divided by political factions and externally surrounded by the forces of Saladin, and \"the only subjects that present themselves are the disasters of a sorrowing country and its manifold misfortunes, themes which can serve only to draw forth lamentations and tears.\"\n\nHis importance had dwindled with the victory of Agnes and her supporters, and with the accession of Baldwin V, infant son of Sibylla and William of Montferrat. Baldwin was a sickly child and he died the next year. In 1186 he was succeeded by his mother Sibylla and her second husband Guy of Lusignan, ruling jointly. William was probably in failing health by this point. Rudolf Hiestand discovered that the date of William's death was 29 September, but the year was not recorded; whatever the year, there was a new chancellor in May 1185 and a new archbishop of Tyre by 21 October 1186. Hans E. Mayer concluded that William died in 1186, and this is the year generally accepted by scholars.\n\nWilliam's foresight about the misfortunes of his country was proven correct less than a year later. Saladin defeated King Guy at the Battle of Hattin in 1187, and went on to capture Jerusalem and almost every other city of the kingdom, except the seat of William's archdiocese, Tyre. News of the fall of Jerusalem shocked Europe and plans were made to send assistance. According to Roger of Wendover, William was present at Gisors in France in 1188 when Henry II of England and Philip II of France agreed to go on crusade: \"Thereupon the king of the English first took the sign of the cross at the hands of the Archbishop of Rheims and William of Tyre, the latter of whom had been entrusted by our lord the pope with the office of legate in the affairs of the crusade in the western part of Europe.\" Roger was however mistaken; he knew that an unnamed archbishop of Tyre was present and assumed it must have been the William whose chronicle he possessed, although the archbishop in question was actually William's successor Joscius.\n\nWilliam reports that he wrote an account of the Third Council of the Lateran, which does not survive. He also wrote a history of the Holy Land from the time of Muhammad up to 1184, for which he used Eutychius of Alexandria as his main source. This work seems to have been known in Europe in the 13th century but it also does not survive. August C. Krey thought William's Arabic sources may have come from the library of the Damascene diplomat Usama ibn Munqidh, whose library was looted by Baldwin III from a shipwreck in 1154. Alan V. Murray, however, has argued that, at least for the accounts of Persia and the Turks in his chronicle, William relied on Biblical and earlier medieval legends rather than actual history, and his knowledge \"may be less indicative of eastern ethnography than of western mythography.\"\n\nWilliam's great work is a Latin chronicle, written between 1170 and 1184. It contains twenty-three books; the final book, which deals with the events of 1183 and the beginning of 1184, has only a prologue and one chapter, so it is either unfinished or the rest of the pages were lost before the whole chronicle began to be copied. The first book begins with the conquest of Syria by Umar in the seventh century, but otherwise the work deals with the advent of the First Crusade and the subsequent political history of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. It is arranged, but was not written, chronologically; the first sections to be written were probably the chapters about the invasion of Egypt in 1167, which are extremely detailed and were likely composed before the Fatimid dynasty was overthrown in 1171. Much of the \"Historia\" was finished before William left to attend the Lateran Council, but new additions and corrections were made after his return in 1180, perhaps because he now realized that European readers would also be interested in the history of the kingdom. In 1184 he wrote the Prologue and the beginning of the twenty-third book.\n\nWilliam had access to the chronicles of the First Crusade, including Fulcher of Chartres, Albert of Aix, Raymond of Aguilers, Baldric of Dol, and the \"Gesta Francorum\", as well as other documents located in the kingdom's archives. He used Walter the Chancellor and other now-lost works for the history of the Principality of Antioch. From the end of Fulcher's chronicle in 1127, William is the only source of information from an author living in Jerusalem. For events that happened in William's own lifetime, he interviewed older people who had witnessed the events about which he was writing, and drew on his own memory.\n\nWilliam's classical education allowed him to compose Latin superior to that of many medieval writers. He used numerous ancient Roman and early Christian authors, either for quotations or as inspiration for the framework and organization of the \"Historia\". His vocabulary is almost entirely classical, with only a few medieval constructions such as \"loricator\" (someone who makes armour, a calque of the Arabic \"zarra\") and \"assellare\" (to empty one's bowels). He was capable of clever word-play and advanced rhetorical devices, but he was prone to repetition of a number of words and phrases. His writing also shows phrasing and spelling which is unusual or unknown in purely classical Latin but not uncommon in medieval Latin, such as:\n\nDespite his quotations from Christian authors and from the Bible, William did not place much emphasis on the intervention of God in human affairs, resulting in a somewhat \"secular\" history. Nevertheless, he included much information that is clearly legendary, especially when referring to the First Crusade, which even in his own day was already considered an age of great Christian heroes. Expanding on the accounts of Albert of Aix, Peter the Hermit is given prominence in the preaching of the First Crusade, to the point that it was he, not Pope Urban II, who originally conceived the crusade. Godfrey of Bouillon, the first ruler of crusader Jerusalem, was also depicted as the leader of the crusade from the beginning, and William attributed to him legendary strength and virtue. This reflected the almost mythological status that Godfrey and the other first crusaders held for the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the late twelfth century.\n\nWilliam gave a more nuanced picture of the kings of his own day. He claimed to have been commissioned to write by King Amalric himself, but William did not allow himself to praise the king excessively; for example, Amalric did not respect the rights of the church, and although he was a good military commander, he could not stop the increasing threat from the neighbouring Muslim states. On a personal level, William admired the king's education and his interest in history and law, but also noted that Amalric had \"breasts like those of a woman hanging down to his waist\" and was shocked when the king questioned the resurrection of the dead.\n\nAbout Amalric's son Baldwin IV, however, \"there was no ambiguity\". Baldwin was nothing but heroic in the face of his debilitating leprosy, and he led military campaigns against Saladin even while still underaged; William tends to gloss over campaigns where Baldwin was not actually in charge, preferring to direct his praise towards the afflicted king rather than subordinate commanders. William's history can be seen as an \"apologia\", a literary defense, for the kingdom, and more specifically for Baldwin's rule. By the 1170s and 1180s, western Europeans were reluctant to support the kingdom, partly because it was far away and there were more pressing concerns in Europe, but also because leprosy was usually considered divine punishment.\n\nWilliam was famously biased against the Knights Templar, whom he believed to be arrogant and disrespectful of both secular and ecclesiastical hierarchies, as they were not required to pay tithes and were legally accountable only to the Pope. Although he was writing decades later, he is the earliest author to describe the actual foundation of the Templar order. He was generally favourable towards them when discussing their early days, but resented the power and influence they held in his own time. William accused them of hindering the Siege of Ascalon in 1153; of poorly defending a cave-fortress in 1165, for which twelve Templars were hanged by King Amalric; of sabotaging the invasion of Egypt in 1168; and of murdering Assassin ambassadors in 1173.\n\nCompared to other Latin authors of the twelfth century, William is surprisingly favourable to the Byzantine Empire. He had visited the Byzantine court as an official ambassador and probably knew more about Byzantine affairs than any other Latin chronicler. He shared the poor opinion of Alexius I Comnenus that had developed during the First Crusade, although he was also critical of some of the crusaders' dealings with Alexius. He was more impressed by Alexius' son John II Comnenus; he did not approve of John's attempts to bring the crusader Principality of Antioch under Byzantine control, but John's military expeditions against the Muslim states, the common enemy of both Greeks and Latins, were considered admirable. Emperor Manuel, whom William met during his visits to Constantinople, was portrayed more ambivalently, much like King Amalric. William admired him personally, but recognized that the Empire was powerless to help Jerusalem against the Muslim forces of Nur ad-Din and Saladin. William was especially disappointed in the failure of the joint campaign against Egypt in 1169. The end of the \"Historia\" coincides with the massacre of the Latins in Constantinople and the chaos that followed the coup of Andronicus I Comnenus, and in his description of those events, William was certainly not immune to the extreme anti-Greek rhetoric that was often found in Western European sources.\n\nAs a medieval Christian author William could hardly avoid hostility towards the kingdom's Muslim neighbours, but as an educated man who lived among Muslims in the east, he was rarely polemical or completely dismissive of Islam. He did not think Muslims were pagans, but rather that they belonged to a heretical sect of Christianity and followed the teachings of a false prophet. He often praised the Muslim leaders of his own day, even if he lamented their power over the Christian kingdom; thus Muslim rulers such as Mu'in ad-Din Unur, Nur ad-Din, Shirkuh, and even Jerusalem's ultimate conqueror Saladin are presented as honourable and pious men, characteristics that William did not bestow on many of his own Christian contemporaries.\n\nAfter William's death the \"Historia\" was copied and circulated in the crusader states and was eventually brought to Europe. In the 13th century, James of Vitry had access to a copy while he was bishop of Acre, and it was used by Guy of Bazoches, Matthew Paris, and Roger of Wendover in their own chronicles. However, there are only ten known manuscripts that contain the Latin chronicle, all of which come from France and England, so William's work may not have been very widely read in its original form. In England, however, the \"Historia\" was expanded in Latin, with additional information from the \"Itinerarium Regis Ricardi\", and the chronicle of Roger Hoveden; this version was written around 1220.\n\nIt is unknown what title William himself gave his chronicle, although one group of manuscripts uses \"Historia rerum in partibus transmarinis gestarum\" and another uses \"Historia Ierosolimitana\". The Latin text was printed for the first time in Basel in 1549 by Nicholas Brylinger; it was also published in the \"Gesta Dei per Francos\" by Jacques Bongars in 1611 and the \"Recueil des historiens des croisades\" (RHC) by Auguste-Arthur Beugnot and Auguste Le Prévost in 1844, and Bongars' text was reprinted in the \"Patrologia Latina\" by Jacques Paul Migne in 1855. The now-standard Latin critical edition, based on six of the surviving manuscripts, was published as \"Willelmi Tyrensis Archiepiscopi Chronicon\" in the \"Corpus Christianorum\" in 1986, by R. B. C. Huygens, with notes by Hans E. Mayer and Gerhard Rösch. The RHC edition was translated into English by Emily A. Babcock and August C. Krey in 1943 as \"A History of Deeds Done Beyond the Sea,\" although the translation is sometimes incomplete or inexact.\n\nA translation of the \"Historia\" into Old French, made around 1223, was particularly well-circulated and had many anonymous additions made to it in the 13th century. In contrast to the surviving Latin manuscripts, there are \"at least fifty-nine manuscripts or fragments of manuscripts\" containing the Old French translation. There are also independent French continuations attributed to Ernoul and Bernard le Trésorier. The translation was sometimes called the \"Livre dou conqueste\"; it was known by this name throughout Europe as well as in the crusader Kingdom of Cyprus and in Cilician Armenia, and 14th-century Venetian geographer Marino Sanuto the Elder had a copy of it. The French was further translated into Spanish, as the \"Gran Conquista de Ultramar\", during the reign of Alfonso the Wise of Castile in the late 13th century. The French version was so widespread that the Renaissance author Francesco Pipino translated it back into Latin, unaware that a Latin original already existed. A Middle English translation of the French was made by William Caxton in the 15th century.\n\nWilliam's neutrality as an historian was often taken for granted until the late twentieth century. August C. Krey, for example, believed that \"his impartiality  ...  is scarcely less impressive than his critical skill.\" Despite this excellent reputation, D. W. T. C. Vessey has shown that William was certainly not an impartial observer, especially when dealing with the events of the 1170s and 1180s. Vessey believes that William's claim to have been commissioned by Amalric is a typical ancient and medieval \"topos\", or literary theme, in which a wise ruler, a lover of history and literature, wishes to preserve for posterity the grand deeds of his reign. William's claims of impartiality are also a typical \"topos\" in ancient and medieval historical writing.\n\nHis depiction of Baldwin IV as a hero is an attempt \"to vindicate the politics of his own party and to blacken those of its opponents.\" As mentioned above, William was opposed to Baldwin's mother Agnes of Courtenay, Patriarch Heraclius, and their supporters; his interpretation of events during Baldwin's reign was previously taken as fact almost without question. In the mid twentieth century, Marshall W. Baldwin, Steven Runciman, and Hans Eberhard Mayer were influential in perpetuating this point of view, although the more recent re-evaluations of this period by Vessey, Peter Edbury and Bernard Hamilton have undone much of William's influence.\n\nAn often-noted flaw in the \"Historia\" is William's poor memory for dates. \"Chronology is sometimes confused, and dates are given wrongly\", even for basic information such as the regnal dates of the kings of Jerusalem. For example, William gives the date of Amalric's death as 11 July 1173, when it actually occurred in 1174.\n\nDespite his biases and errors, William \"has always been considered one of the greatest medieval writers.\" Runciman wrote that \"he had a broad vision; he understood the significance of the great events of his time and the sequence of cause and effect in history.\" Christopher Tyerman calls him \"the historian's historian\", and \"the greatest crusade historian of all,\" and Bernard Hamilton says he \"is justly considered one of the finest historians of the Middle Ages\". As the \"Dictionary of the Middle Ages\" says, \"William's achievements in assembling and evaluating sources, and in writing in excellent and original Latin a critical and judicious (if chronologically faulty) narrative, make him an outstanding historian, superior by medieval, and not inferior by modern, standards of scholarship.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "45405134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45405134", "title": "Willy Cohn", "text": "Willy Cohn\n\nWilly Cohn (12 December 1888 in Breslau – 29 November 1941 in Kaunas, Lithuania) was a German historian and teacher. During the Nazi era, he documented the Jewish life in Breslau in his diaries, until he and his family were deported to German-occupied Lithuania and killed.\n\nCohn's diaries, translated into English and condensed, were published in 2012 as \"No Justice in Germany: The Breslau Diaries, 1933-1941\" by Stanford University Press. Along with Victor Klemperer, Cohn was one of the most important chroniclers of the crimes of the Nazi regime against the Jewish people.\n\nWilly Cohn came from a wealthy Jewish merchant family in Breslau. Starting in 1906, he studied history in Breslau and Heidelberg. He completed his degree in 1909 with a dissertation about the Norman-Sicilian fleet, which was published in Breslau in 1910. Cohn took the examination to qualify as a gymnasium teacher, although he aspired to pursue an academic career at the University of Breslau. He was unable to realize his plans because of discrimination against Jewish academics. Cohn became a teacher at Breslau's gymnasium in 1919. One of those students was the historian Walter Laqueur, who in 1996 called attention to Cohn's diaries.\nDespite increasing repression after the Nazis came to power, Cohn still felt connected to Germany and remained in Breslau with his second wife and two daughters. In his diaries, he documented life under Nazi rule and the subsequent destruction of Breslau's Jewish community, then the third largest in Germany. As the persecution of Jews in Germany grew worse, the Cohns considered emigration. Cohn and his wife visited Palestine in 1937, but it offered no employment prospects to Cohn, who was not healthy enough to perform physical labor. When they wanted to flee after the Kristallnacht in 1938, it was too late; after the outbreak of the Second World War, the Nazi regime no longer allowed emigration. The Cohns endured the Nazi reign of terror in Breslau; they were arrested on November 21, 1941 and deported to German-occupied Lithuania. A few days later, on November 29, 1941, Cohn and his family were shot in the Ninth Fort, together with 2000 other Jews from Breslau and Vienna. In 2010, a plaque commemorating Cohn was unveiled on Wrocław's Market Square.\n\nCohn's diaries are preserved in the Central Archives for the History of the Jewish People in Jerusalem and were first published in December 2006. Cohn is considered along with Victor Klemperer as one of the most important chroniclers of the crimes of the Nazis against the Jewish people.\n\nCohn left a record of everyday Jewish life in Germany after 1933, under conditions of gradually increasing economic, social and cultural oppression. Acknowledging the threat from the Nazi regime in his diaries, he wrote in August 1935: \"From now on, I plan to record our Jewish fate more intently; perhaps it will be of interest to later generations\". His condensed diaries were published in English in 2012 by Stanford University Press as \"No Justice in Germany: The Breslau Diaries, 1933-1941\". The review at H-Net noted:\n\nIt is rare that such perceptive and comprehensive accounts of this time period survive, and Conrads and Kronenberg [the editor and the translator] help fulfill Cohn's desire to inform future generations about his experiences. Similar to Victor Klemperer's diary, Cohn's detailed account describes what it was like to be a Jew living in the Third Reich. (...) The condensed diaries and helpful background information should certainly encourage a wider readership and general audience.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620241", "title": "Yitzhak Ben-Zvi", "text": "Yitzhak Ben-Zvi\n\nYitzhak Ben-Zvi ( \"Yitshak Ben-Tsvi\"; 24 November 188423 April 1963) was a historian, Labor Zionist leader and the second and longest-serving President of Israel.\n\nBorn in Poltava in the Russian Empire (today in Ukraine), Ben-Zvi was the eldest son of Zvi Shimshelevich, who later took the name Shimshi. Shimshi was a leading Zionist activist and one of the organizers of the first Zionist Congress in 1897, who, in 1952, was honored by the first Israeli Knesset with the title \"Father of the State of Israel\".\n\nBen-Zvi was active in the Jewish self-defense units organized in Ukraine to defend Jews during the pogroms of 1905, and joined the Poale Zion Zionist political party. He immigrated to Palestine in 1907, settling in Jaffa, and later the same year was a representative in the Zionist Congress at The Hague. It was there that he first met Israel Shochat. \"Bar-Giora\", the clandestine precursor to Hashomer, was created in his apartment in 1907. In 1909, he organized the Gymnasia Rehavia high school in the Bukharim quarter of Jerusalem together with Rachel Yanait.\n\nIn 1910 Yanait, Ben-Zvi and Ze'ev Ashur founded the \" Ahdut\", the first Hebrew socialist periodical.\nFollowing his studies at Galatasaray High School in Istanbul, from 1912 to 1914 Ben-Zvi studied law at Istanbul University, together with the future Israeli prime minister David Ben-Gurion. They returned to Palestine in August 1914, but were expelled by the Ottoman authorities in 1915. The two of them moved to New York City, where they engaged in Zionist activities and founded the HeHalutz (Pioneer) movement there. Together, they also wrote the Yiddish book \"The Land of Israel Past and Present\" to promote the Zionist cause among American Jewry.\n\nUpon returning to Palestine in 1918, Ben-Zvi married Yanait. They had two sons: Amram and Eli. Eli died in the Arab–Israeli War, defending his kibbutz, Beit Keshet.\n\nBen-Zvi served in the Jewish Legion (1st Judean battalion 'KADIMAH') together with Ben-Gurion. In 1919, he helped found the Ahdut HaAvoda party, and became increasingly active in the Haganah. He was later elected to the Jerusalem City Council and president of the National Council, the shadow government of the Jewish community in Mandatory Palestine.\n\nAccording to Avraham Tehomi, Ben-Zvi ordered the 1924 murder of Jacob Israël de Haan.\n\nDe Haan had come to Palestine as an ardent Zionist, but he had become increasingly critical of the Zionist organizations, preferring a negotiated solution to the armed struggle between the Jews and Arabs. In Tehomi's opinion: \"I have done what the Haganah decided had to be done. And nothing was done without the order of Yitzhak Ben-Zvi. I have no regrets because he [de Haan] wanted to destroy our whole idea of Zionism.\"\n\nWhen Israel gained its independence, Ben-Zvi was among the signers of its Declaration of Independence on 14 May 1948. He served in the First and Second Knesset for the Mapai party. He was elected President of Israel on 8 December 1952, assumed office on 16 December 1952, and continued to serve in the position until his death.\n\nBen-Zvi believed that the president should set an example for the public and his home should reflect the austerity of the times. For over 26 years, he and his family lived in a wooden hut in the Rehavia neighborhood of Jerusalem. The State of Israel took interest in the adjacent house, built and owned by Nissim and Esther Valero, and purchased it, after Nissim's death, to provide additional space for the President's residence. Two larger wooden structures in the yard were used for official receptions.\n\nIn 1948, Ben-Zvi headed the Institute for the Study of Oriental Jewish Communities in the Middle East, later named the Ben-Zvi Institute (Yad Ben-Zvi) in his honor. The Ben-Zvi Institute occupies Nissim Valero's house. His main field of research was the Jewish communities and sects of Asia and Africa, including the Samaritans and Karaites.\n\nIn 1953, Ben-Zvi was awarded the Bialik Prize for Jewish thought.\n\nBen-Zvi's photo appears on 100 NIS bills. Many streets and boulevards in Israel are named for him. In 2008, Ben-Zvi's wooden hut was moved to Kibbutz Beit Keshet, which his son helped to found, and the interior was restored with its original furnishings. The Valero house in Rehavia neighbourhood was designated an historic building protected by law under municipal plan 2007 for the preservation of historic sites.\n\nYitzhak Ben-Zvi's father, Zvi Shimshi (Shimshelevitch), was a leading Zionist activist in the 19th century. A member of the B'ne Moshe and Hoveve Zion movements in Ukraine, he was one of the organizers with Dr. Theodore Herzl of the first Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland in the fall of 1897. At this Congress, the World Zionist Organization was founded, and the intention to re-establish a Jewish state was announced. Shimshi was the only organizer of the first Zionist Congress to live to see the birth of the modern State of Israel in 1948. On 10 December 1952, Zvi Shimshi was honored by the first Israeli Knesset (parliament) with the title, \"Father of the State of Israel\".\n\nYitzhak Ben-Zvi's brother was the well known Jewish author, Aharon Reuveni, and his brother-in-law was the Israeli archaeologist, Prof. Benjamin Mazar.\n\n\n"}
