{"id": "14012039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14012039", "title": "1940 Constitution of Cuba", "text": "1940 Constitution of Cuba\n\nThe 1940 Constitution of Cuba was implemented during the presidency of Federico Laredo Brú and took effect on 10 October 1940. It was primarily influenced by the collectivist ideas that inspired the Cuban Revolution of 1933. Widely considered one of the most progressive constitutions at the time, it provided for land reform, public education, a minimum wage and other social programs. It had 286 articles in 19 sections.\n\nDespite the fact that some political parties had refused to participate in some elections in anticipation of fraud by the government in power, all parties presented candidates for the election of a Constitutional Assembly in November 1939. Beneath the variety of parties, the two national leaders who had dominated Cuban politics since the ouster of Gerardo Machado in 1933: former President Ramón Grau and Fulgencio Batista, a military leader who had dominated several recent presidents. Each maneuvered to form coalitions, but public interest was only sufficient to produce a turnout of 57% of the eligible voters. The 76 delegates from nine political parties first elected Grau chairman, but he was removed when the Conservative Party delegates, who had campaigned in opposition to Batista, switched sides and supported Batista's candidate for chairman, Carlos Márquez Sterling. The assembly debated publicly for six months and adopted the constitution at the Capitol in Havana. It was signed on 1 July 1940, in Guáimaro, Camagüey, as a tribute to the anti-colonial revolutionaries who signed a draft of a proposed Cuban constitution there in 1879. A later U.S. Ambassador to Cuba, Philip Bonsal assessed the outcome:\n\nFor example, the Constitution established as national policy restrictions on the size of land holdings and an end to common ownership of sugar plantations and sugar mills, but these principles were never translated into legislation.\n\nThe Constitution of 1940 (a) substantiated voting as a right, obligation and function of the people; (b) endorsed the previously established form of government, specifically republican, democratic and representative; (c) confirmed individual rights and privileges including private property rights; and (d) introduced the notion of collective rights.\n\nUnder the Constitution of 1940, the separation between the three branches of government remained, but with obvious distinctions: (a) the role of the prime minister was introduced; (b) the executive branch converted to semi-parliamentary form, where half of its ministers could also be congressmen; and (c) Congress’ form was changed to one member in the house for every 35,000 citizens or greater fraction of 17,500, and nine senators per province.\n\nThe Constitution of 1940 ratified the authority and independence of the judiciary. Specifically, the judicial branch remained autonomous and empowered to nominate judges and magistrates. Like the Constitution of 1901, and the U.S. Constitution, Supreme Court justices were appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate. In addition, the Constitution of 1940 instituted a Court of Constitutional and Social Guarantees, known as the Constitutional Court, under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court was empowered to hear labor and constitutional law disputes and to set remedies for violations.\n\nUnder the Constitution of 1940, provincial government was terminated. The provincial councils endured, but were now composed of the mayors of various municipalities incorporated into each province. The governor’s power to suspend mayors ceased, while the municipalities gained the right to impose local taxes. Public expenses and budgeting at all levels became subject to a ministerial officer under the auspices of a new Court of Public Administration. A Court of Public Works was instituted.\n\nThe constitutional amendment clause was strictly enforced in the Constitution of 1940. A constitutional convention was required to modify the language of the Constitution. Congress was authorized to make minor reforms to the document, provided that the following requirements were adhered to: (a) quorum (joint session); (b) two thirds vote of the total number of legislators; and (c) proposed amendments needed to be approved at two consecutive legislative sessions. The Constitution of 1940 could also be modified via referendum.\n\nThe most notable difference between the Constitution of 1901 and the Constitution of 1940 was the addition of constitutional protection for issues relating to family, culture, property and labor. Without constitutional antecedents and expertise in the area of protection of social rights, the drafters of the Constitution of 1940 used as models the Second Spanish Republic's Constitution of 1931 and Germany's Weimar Constitution.\n\nThe Constitution of 1940 was in effect for 12 years until, in 1952, following a coup d'état by Fulgencio Batista, parts of it were suspended.\n\nIn 1953, Fidel Castro's manifesto \"History Will Absolve Me\" declared the restoration of the 1940 Constitution one of the principal aims of his revolutionary movement. In 1957, he and two of his fellow revolutionaries in the \"Manifesto of Sierra Maestra\" announced their intention to restore the 1940 Constitution should they succeed in defeating the Batista dictatorship. They delayed doing so until, in 1976, a referendum approved the adoption of a new constitution, the 1976 Constitution of Cuba, which defined the country as a one-party state under the Communist Party of Cuba and replaced the office of Prime Minister of Cuba with an executive president.\n\nThe signers were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4212743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4212743", "title": "Audita querela", "text": "Audita querela\n\nAudita querela (Law Latin for \"[the] complaint [having been] heard\") is a writ, stemming from English common law, that serves to permit a defendant who has had a judgment rendered against him or her to seek relief of the consequences of such a judgment where there is some new evidence or legal defense that was not previously available. The writ is thus generally used to prevent a judgment from being executed where enforcement of that judgment would be \"contrary to justice\". At common law, the writ may be useful where a creditor engages in fraud before the judgment is rendered, or because the debt had been discharged, paid or otherwise satisfied after the judgment is rendered.\n\nThe writ has existed at various times in England, Canada and the United States, and possibly Scotland. In England, it fell out of use in favor of less expensive remedies, and was ultimately abolished in 1875. In Canada, the writ has either fallen into disuse or been abolished entirely. In United States federal civil law, it was abolished by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in 1948, but still exists in the civil procedure of some states. The writ has also been adopted to some specialized United States federal criminal practice, especially involving the effects of sentences on immigration law. As to Scotland, few records exist as to the writ, though equivalent actions exist.\n\nThe writ of \"audita querela defendentis\" (Law Latin for \"[the] complaint [of the] defendant [having been] heard\"), later shortened to \"audita querela\", (Law Latin for \"[the] complaint [having been] heard\") was first authorized by Parliament in 1336, during the reign of Edward III, and may have existed as early as 1282. The writ would issue from the Court of Chancery, directed towards either the King's Bench or the Court of Common Pleas, and would direct the court to hear the parties and \"do speedy justice to the debtor\". In the Middle Ages, the writ became a general remedy for victims of forgery and similar issues, which development led to the importation of the writ to the United States. The writ was used to vacate a judgment rendered against a debtor where that debtor had paid the debt or the debt had otherwise been discharged. This was to ensure that a creditor could not collect the same debt twice.\n\nA hearing on a writ of \"audita querela\" was a full trial on the merits of the case, rather than a simple procedural hearing, and could result in both equitable remedies as well as summary judgment. The expense of pursuing a full trial was one of the factors that led to the writ's decline by the late 1660s, particularly as many plaintiffs only sought summary judgment, and English courts became more willing to entertain much cheaper to pursue motions for summary judgment. Two English statutes in particular, in allowing relatively simple affidavits in \"ex parte\" proceedings to secure summary judgment, led to an increase in their use in place of \"audita querela\": the Charities Procedure Act 1812 and the Summary Procedure on Bills of Exchange Act 1855. The former granted several English courts greater liberty to review affidavits and award summary relief in cases involving charitable trusts. The latter permitted bearers of promissory notes and endorsed bills of exchange to pursue \"ex parte\" proceedings for summary judgment through the filing of an affidavit.\n\nThe writ of \"audita querela\" was abolished entirely by the Rules of the Supreme Court in 1875 by Order 42, r. 22.\n\nOne question that has persisted is whether \"audita querela\" functioned in equity or at common law. William Searle Holdsworth argued the former position, whereas Theodore Plucknett argued the latter. Holdsworth's \"History of English Law\" cites an early legal opinion by John Stonor as well as Blackstone's \"Commentaries\" for the proposition that the writ was of an equitable nature. Plucknett's \"A Concise History of the Common Law\" argues that the writ provided no greater relief than was traditionally available at common law for abuse of process. He also offers a different interpretation of Stonor's statement, arguing that it means the writ permitted a defendant to assert common law defenses where a statute's intent was to make such defenses inaccessible. As such, Plucknett argues that the circumstances under which the writ was available were few and circumscribed.\n\nBy 1878, the writ of \"audita querela\" had fallen into disuse in Canada, and was considered obsolete by 1940.\n\nThe writ may have been adopted in Scotland during the reign of Robert the Bruce under the name \"Breve de pauperibus quod dicitur Audita querela\" as a brieve, a Scots law writ issuing from chancery. The brieve may have involved a payment from the Exchequer, but did not appear to take root in Scots law. The text of the ancient brieve has been lost.\n\nPrior to the abolition of \"Audita querela\" in England, the equivalent action in Scots law was suspension to stay diligence. Subsequently, the English equivalent to the Scots action became stay of execution.\n\nIn United States jurisprudence, the writ of \"audita querela\" functioned as a common-law action, sounding in tort. As in England, the writ had to be brought in the trial court that rendered the original judgment. An essential element of bringing an action at \"audita querela\" was injury or danger thereof, and it had to be brought between the two parties of the earlier proceeding that rendered the judgment. It also required that, if there were multiple defendants subject to the original judgment, they all take part in the proceeding unless the defendant bringing the suit was the sole defendant subject to execution and only brought the suit to vacate the judgment.\n\nThe writ saw use in a great variety of circumstances and situations, but there were two primary uses. First, like in England, the writ could be used when a defense was not brought during the earlier trial because it was unavailable, or if the debt subject to the judgment had since been discharged. Second, the writ started to be extended to situations arising \"prior\" to judgment, such as where a creditor sought and obtained a judgment in an improper way that deprived the debtor of the chance to defend against the case in court.\n\n\"Audita querela\" was abolished in United States federal civil procedure in 1948 by Rule 60(b), which provides the procedure for relief from a final judgment through a motion. The specific language of Rule 60(b) that abolished the writ was moved to 60(e) in 2007. Some states have abolished the writ, and in those that have not, where a motion may be used to accomplish the same outcome, the use of the writ has been almost completely replaced by an equivalent motion. The writ has been explicitly abolished in the states of Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina and Washington. In Ohio, it is said that \"audita querela\" is not part of the law.\n\nIn federal criminal procedure, the writ may sometimes be used to contest a conviction on legal grounds where there is no other postconviction remedy available. In this sense, \"audita querela\", along with other common law remedies, serves to fill gaps in the system of postconviction remedies. A specific situation in which this has been used is to avoid the immigration consequences of a conviction. Another case in which it has been used has been to vacate a long-past conviction with a law which has since been judged unconstitutional. With respect to state criminal proceedings, while it has been said that the writ is inapplicable, there is authority to the contrary.\n\n\"Audita querela\" serves to permit a defendant who has had a judgment rendered against him or her to seek relief of the consequences of such a judgment where there is some new evidence or legal defense that was not previously available. The writ is thus generally used to prevent a judgment from being executed where enforcement of that judgment would be \"contrary to justice\". At common law, the writ may be useful where a creditor engages in fraud before the judgment is rendered, or because the debt had been discharged, paid or otherwise satisfied after the judgment is rendered.\n\nSpecific uses of the writ may include judgments that the debtor has paid, for debts that have been discharged in bankruptcy and that exceed the jurisdiction of the court. Default judgments rendered where there was no service of process may be set aside through the writ, as may writs of execution issued in an amount greater than the judgment and judgments for debts where the creditor has released his or her rights to the debtor. A judgment against a minor lacking a guardian \"ad litem\" or against someone mentally incompetent whose guardian has not been notified may also be voided by the writ.\n\nThe writ is distinguished from other remedies primarily in terms of the \"timing\" of the grounds for objecting to the judgment, rather than the actual nature of the grounds, such as whether they are purely equitable. It may be further distinguished from the writ of \"coram nobis\" in that the latter is used to vacate a judgment, rather than the consequences of a judgment. Thus, \"audita querela\" may issue against judgments that were valid when rendered, while \"coram nobis\" would be used against judgments that were never valid.\n\n"}
{"id": "4362540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362540", "title": "Australian Law Reports", "text": "Australian Law Reports\n\nThe Australian Law Reports are an unauthorised series of law reports which report cases from the High Court of Australia, Federal Court of Australia and the Supreme Courts of the states and territories exercising federal jurisdiction. After each authorised series they are the most often cited series of law reports in Australia. They were previously called the Australian Argus Law Reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "1028765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028765", "title": "Australian labour law", "text": "Australian labour law\n\nAustralian labour law concerns Commonwealth, state, and common law on rights and duties of workers, unions and employers in Australia. Sharing a heritage with laws across the Commonwealth of Nations, UK labour law and standards set by the International Labour Organization, the Australian legislature and courts have a built a comprehensive charter of rights at work. \n\n\nIn Australia, any field that the Constitution does not give the Commonwealth power to make laws about is assumed to be a field the states can make laws about. In labour law, the result is a dual structure, where some employment issues and relationships are governed by Commonwealth laws, and others are governed by state laws or the common law.\n\nIt was originally thought that the Commonwealth's power to make laws about labour law was extremely narrow, and only to be that power provided by section 51(xxxv) of the Constitution, which gives the Commonwealth power to make laws \"in relation to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one state\".\n\nBased on this constitutional power, the \"Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904\" sought to introduce the rule of law in industrial relations in Australia and, besides other things, established the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. Its functions were the hearing and the arbitration of industrial disputes, and to make awards. It also had the judicial functions of interpreting and enforcing awards and hearing other criminal and civil cases relating to industrial relations law.\n\nIn disputes involving a company in a single state either, a union or industrial organisation will rope them into a federal award by arguing that they are part of an industry in which a dispute extending beyond the limits of any one state exist. (This can be done by finding another company which did similar work and serving them with a log of claims concurrently or by virtue of a company's membership of a peak industry body.) Alternatively, if the company was not covered by a federal Award it would be covered by the various States' industrial relations systems, and disputes are conciliated or arbitrated by the state industrial relations commissions which would create an industry rule Award.\n\nHowever, since 1993, the Commonwealth government has used the corporations power in section 51(xx) of the Constitution to enact labour laws of much wider import. The corporations power gives the federal parliament power to make laws with respect to \"trading and financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth\", as well as 'foreign' corporations. \n\nIn 1996, the Howard Government passed the Workplace Relations Act 1996, which replaced the previous Labor Government's \"Industrial Relations Act 1988\", starting operation on 1 January 1997. The Act was substantially amended by the \"Workplace Relations Amendment Act 2005\", that came into effect on 27 March 2006, which brought in the \"WorkChoices\" changes to Australia's labour law. WorkChoices came into operation in 2006, it gave effective control of 85% of the Australian labour law system to the Federal Government. \n\nThe Howard Government announced plans in 2005 to use this power to override state systems and unify industrial relations systems under a federal umbrella. The changes also included the introduction of an independent Australian Fair Pay Commission to set wages, and enhanced powers for the Office of the Employment Advocate and a corresponding lesser role for the Australian Industrial Relations Commission. These changes became known as WorkChoices. The theory behind this move was that the corporations power could be used to make laws about employment relationships between corporations and their employees. In modern Australia, where the corporation is almost ubiquitous in business, that effectively meant the corporations power could be used to make laws about almost all employment relationships. \n\nThe constitutional validity of the WorkChoices legislation was challenged in the High Court of Australia in \"New South Wales & Ors v Commonwealth\". The Court decided by a majority of 5–2 in November 2006 that all the WorkChoices reforms were valid. This was a major moment in Australian constitutional law history and in the history of Australian federal-state relations, confirming that the Commonwealth's powers were much wider than anyone had previously thought in past decades, and that the corporations power in particular can be interpreted very widely to enable the Commonwealth to make laws about all sorts of topics never envisaged by those who had drafted the Constitution.\n\nA 2008 amendment to WorkChoices further expanded the federal government’s reach into employer-employee relations when it prohibited awards which were determined by reference to state or territory boundaries or did not have effect in each state and territory.\n\nThe Rudd Labor Government repealed the 2005 Act by the Fair Work Act 2009, which established Fair Work Australia\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25887328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887328", "title": "Australia–Solomon Islands Maritime Boundary Agreement", "text": "Australia–Solomon Islands Maritime Boundary Agreement\n\nThe Australia–Solomon Islands Maritime Boundary Agreement is a treaty between the governments of Australia and the Solomon Islands signed in Honiara on 13 September 1988 to delimit a maritime boundary in the ocean and the seabed.\n\nThe text of the treaty sets out a relatively short boundary composed of two straight-line maritime segments defined by three individual coordinate points. The boundary represents an approximate equidistant line between Australia and the Solomon Islands and defines the limit of Australian Fishing Zone and the Solomon Islands Exclusive Economic Zone.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of Solomon Islands establishing certain sea and seabed boundaries\". It entered into force on 14 April 1989 after it had been ratified by both countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8190590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8190590", "title": "Berkeley Journal of Employment &amp; Labor Law", "text": "Berkeley Journal of Employment &amp; Labor Law\n\nThe Berkeley Journal of Employment & Labor Law (\"BJELL\") is a law journal that publishes articles focusing on current developments in labor and employment law. It was founded in 1975 as the Industrial Relations Law Journal. It changed its name to the current title in 1993. Articles in the journal cover legal issues dealing with employment discrimination, \"traditional\" labor law, public sector employment, international and comparative labor law, employee benefits, and the evolution of the doctrine of wrongful termination. In addition to scholarly articles, the journal includes student-authored comments, book reviews and essays. It is published twice a year by Berkeley Law.\n\n\"BJELL\" is the most cited employment law journal in the world.\n\nIn order \"to bring attention to the study and practice of American labor law and to spur the academic exchange of ideas about its contemporary significance,\" \"BJELL\" holds the annual David E. Feller Memorial Labor Law Lecture.\n\nOn October 25, 2018, BJELL won Berkeley Law's annual Halloween journal office decorating competition with their theme \"The Red Scare.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15767036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15767036", "title": "Brasil para Todos", "text": "Brasil para Todos\n\nBrasil para Todos (Portuguese for \"Brasil for Everyone\") is a non-profit organization whose goal is the removal of religious symbols from government facilities. According to the organization, keeping such religious symbols violates the separation of church and state as established by the Constitution of Brazil.\n\nThe \"Brasil para Todos\" movement officially began on January 17, 2007. Many citizens, including politicians and legal experts, have protested against the display of religious symbols in Brazilian government facilities as early as 1891. In 2005, a legal action by judge Roberto Arriada Lorea, from Porto Alegre, received wider media coverage.\n\nThe movement suggests sympathizers act by leaving support messages on their website and filing legal complaints at the State and Federal attorney's Office. Such actions have resulted in relevant juridic and media response.\n\nThe movement has received support from representatives of many faiths, such as monk Coen, Iyalorisa Sandra M. Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization \"Respeito Brasil Yourubá\"), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R. Medran Moreira, president of the Pan-American Spiritism Confederation.\n\nMany legal experts, including judges and attorneys; artists such as cartoonist Laerte Coutinho; politicians such as city councilwoman Soninha Francine and even religious-oriented NGOs such as \"Católicas pelo Direito de Decidir\" have also manifested support for the initiative.\n\nIn an opinion piece for the \"O Estado de S. Paulo\" newspaper, journalist Gilberto de Mello Kujawski reasoned that \"Brazil is not a secular country. Brazil is, in fact, a majoritary catholic, apostolic, roman country, yes, sir. Secular is the State, not the Brazilian country, nation or society\".\n\nIn an article of his authorship published in the \"Jornal do Brasil\" newspaper, law professor Ives Gandra Martins cited the words \"under God's protection\", from the Brazilian Constitution's introduction, as possible justification for the argument that the movement's aim is unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22163364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163364", "title": "Civic lottery", "text": "Civic lottery\n\nA civic lottery, a popular term for the contemporary use of sortition or allotment, is a lottery-based method for selecting citizens for public service or office. It is based on the premise that citizens in a democracy have both a duty and the desire to serve their society by participating in its governance.\n\nToday, the most common use of the civic lottery process is found in many Anglo-Saxon judicial systems where citizen juries are summoned to hear and render verdicts in court cases. The term for this is popularly known as jury duty.\n\nCivic lotteries are increasingly popular in Canada, where provincial Citizens' Assemblies on Electoral Reform took place in British Columbia in 2004 and in Ontario in 2006. The membership of each Assembly was determined by a civic lottery which invited citizens to volunteer as candidates.\nIn British Columbia, the government sent 23,034 letters to randomly identified citizens throughout the province. 1,715 replied and volunteered to serve as members of the Assembly. In Ontario, 123,489 citizens were identified during a random electronic draw from the Permanent Register of Electors. Each citizen received a letter inviting him or her to apply and 7,033 volunteered as candidates. Ultimately, during a final selection process 158 names were drawn from among the candidates to participate as members of the BC Assembly. 103 were selected as members in Ontario.\n\nMASS LBP, a Canadian company inspired by the work of the Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform (Ontario) has developed an increasingly sophisticated system for running civic lotteries to randomly select citizens to participate on government advisory panels. The lotteries, which ask citizens to give up several consecutive weekends to participate on a panel, enjoy a strong positive response rate, typically exceeding five percent. This suggests that citizens are more interested public affairs than declining voter-turnout rates indicate.\n\nPanel members are randomly selected from among the pool of candidate-respondents to create a panel that roughly matches the demographic profile of the wider population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25767071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25767071", "title": "Code of Conduct for Clearing and Settlement", "text": "Code of Conduct for Clearing and Settlement\n\nThe European Code of Conduct for Clearing and Settlement (Code of Conduct) is an initiative of European securities exchanges, clearing houses and central securities depositories to set a uniform rules for trading, clearing, settlement and custody services for stocks. The Code of Conduct contains rules, which should enhance transparency for customers and improve services for cross-border transactions as well as harmonise the European capital market and revitalise the international securities traffic.\n\nThe Code of Conduct was agreed on 31 October 2006 by all members of the \"Federation of European Securities Exchanges\" (FESE), the \"European Association of Central Counterparty Clearing Houses\" (EACH) and the \"European Central Securities Depositories Association\" (ECSDA).\n\nThe Code of Conduct is not only meant to guarantee an increased transparency of prices and services in the cross-border securities business, but is also supposed to stimulate the international securities traffic. Due to technical interfaces built to ensure the interoperability of diverse platforms, segregated accounting as well as newly structured services the market participants will be enabled to order Clearing, Settlement and Safekeeping at different institutions.\n\nThe Code contains rules, which should lead to the improvement of price transparency, to facilitate and open access to cross-border services (trade, clearing and settlement) and finally to separate services relating to trade, clearing settlement, and custody services and to enable the separate billing of these services.\n\n"}
{"id": "991515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991515", "title": "Constitutional history of Canada", "text": "Constitutional history of Canada\n\nThe constitutional history of Canada begins with the 1763 Treaty of Paris, in which France ceded most of New France to Great Britain. Canada was the colony along the St Lawrence River, part of present-day Ontario and Quebec. Its government underwent many structural changes over the following century. In 1867 Canada became the name of the new federal Dominion extending ultimately from the Atlantic to the Pacific and the Arctic coasts. Canada obtained legislative autonomy from the United Kingdom in 1931, and had its constitution (including a new rights charter) patriated in 1982. Canada's constitution includes the amalgam of constitutional law spanning this history.\n\nOn February 10, 1763, France ceded most of New France to Great Britain. The 1763 Treaty of Paris confirmed the cession of Canada, including all its dependencies, Acadia (Nova Scotia) and Cape Breton Island to Great Britain. A year before, France had secretly signed a treaty ceding Louisiana to Spain to avoid losing it to the British.\n\nAt the time of the signing, the French colony of Canada was already under the control of the British army since the capitulation of the government of New France in 1760. (See the Articles of Capitulation of Montreal.)\n\nThe policy of Great Britain regarding its newly acquired colonies of America was revealed in a Royal Proclamation, issued on October 7, 1763. The proclamation renamed Canada \"The Province of Quebec\", redefined its borders and established a British-appointed colonial government. Although not an act of Parliament, the proclamation expressed the will of the British Crown to govern its new possessions. The proclamation was thus considered constitution of Quebec until the passing of the Quebec Act, by which the colony was granted a legislature. The new governor of the colony was given \"the power and direction to summon and call a general assembly of the people's representatives\" when the \"state and circumstances of the said Colonies will admit thereof\".\n\nThe governor was also given the mandate to \"make, constitute, and ordain Laws, Statutes, and Ordinances for the Public Peace, Welfare, and good Government of our said Colonies, and of the People and Inhabitants thereof\" with the consent of the British-appointed councils and representatives of the people. In the meantime, all British subjects in the colony were guaranteed of the protection of the law of England, and the governor was given the power to erect courts of judicature and public justice to hear all causes, civil or public.\n\nThe Royal Proclamation contained elements that conflicted with the \"Articles of Capitulation of Montreal\", which granted Canadians the privilege to maintain their civil laws and practise their religion. The application of British laws such as the penal Laws caused numerous administrative problems and legal irregularities. The requirements of the Test Act also effectively excluded Catholics from administrative positions in the British Empire.\n\nWhen James Murray was commissioned as captain general and governor in chief of the Province of Quebec, a four-year military rule ended, and the civil administration of the colony began. Judging the circumstances to be inappropriate to the establishment of British institutions in the colony, Murray was of the opinion that it would be more practical to keep the current civil institutions. He believed that, over time, the Canadians would recognize the superiority of British civilization and willingly adopt its language, its religion, and its customs. He officially recommended to retain French civil law and to dispense the Canadians from taking the Oath of Supremacy. Nevertheless, Murray followed his instructions and British institutions began to be established. On September 17, 1764, the Courts of the King's Bench and Common Pleas were constituted.\n\nTensions quickly developed between the British merchants or old subjects, newly established in the colony, and Governor Murray. They were very dissatisfied with the state of the country and demanded that British institutions be created immediately. They demanded that common law be enforced to protect their business interests and that a house of assembly be created for English-speaking Protestants alone. Murray did not think very highly of these tradesmen. In a letter to the British Lords of Trade, he referred to them as \"licentious fanatics\" who would not be satisfied but by \"the expulsion of the Canadians\".\n\nThe conciliatory approach of Murray in dealing with the demands of the Canadians was not well received by the merchants. In May 1764, they petitioned the king for Murray's removal, accusing him of betraying the interests of Great Britain by his defence of the Canadian people's interests. The merchants succeeded in having him recalled to London. He was vindicated, but did not return to the Province of Quebec. In 1768, he was replaced by Sir Guy Carleton, who would contribute to the drafting of the 1774 Quebec Act.\n\nMurray called in the representatives of the people in 1765; however, his attempt to constitute a representative assembly failed, as, according to historian Francois-Xavier Garneau, the Canadians were unwilling to renounce their Catholic faith and take the test oath required to hold office.\n\nOn October 29, 1764, 94 Canadian subjects submitted a petition demanding that the orders of the king be available in French and that they be allowed to participate in the government.\n\nIn December 1773, Canadian landlords submitted a petition and a memorandum in which they asked:\n\n\nThey expressed their opinion that the time was not right for a house of assembly because the colony could not afford it and suggested that a larger council, composed of both new and old subjects, would be a better choice.\n\nIn May 1774 the British merchants trading in Quebec responded by submitting their case to the king.\n\nAs early as 1765, British merchants established in Quebec City addressed a petition to the King to ask for \"the establishment of a house of representatives in this province as in all the other provinces\" of the continent. Indeed, all the other colonies of British America had parliamentary institutions, even Nova Scotia, which obtained its Parliament in 1758.\n\nThe movement for reform did not receive any support from the Canadians originally.\n\nThe Quebec Act granted many of the requests of the Canadians. Enacted on June 13, 1774, the act changed the following:\n\n\nNo assembly of representatives was created, which allowed the governor to keep ruling under the advice of his counsellors.\n\nThe British merchants of Quebec were not pleased by this new act, which ignored their most important demands. They continued to campaign to abolish the current civil code and establish a house of assembly excluding Catholics and French-speakers.\n\nThe Quebec Act was also very negatively received in the British colonies to the south. (See the Intolerable Acts.) This act was in force in the Province of Quebec when the American Revolutionary War broke out in April 1775.\n\nDuring the revolution, the Continental Congress attempted to rally the Canadian people to its cause. The delegates wrote three letters (Letters to the inhabitants of Canada) inviting them to join in the revolution. The letters circulated in Canada, mostly in the cities of Montreal and Quebec. The first letter was written on October 26, 1774, and signed by the president of the congress, Henry Middleton. It was translated into French by Fleury Mesplet, who printed it in Philadelphia and distributed the copies himself in Montreal.\n\nThe letter pleaded the cause of democratic government, the separation of powers, taxation power, habeas corpus, trial by jury, and freedom of the press.\n\nThe second letter was written on May 25, 1775. Shorter, it urged the inhabitants of Canada not to side against the revolutionary forces. (The congress was aware that the British colonial government had already asked the Canadians to resist the call of the revolutionaries.)\n\nOn May 22, 1775, Bishop of Quebec Jean-Olivier Briand sent out a \"mandement\" asking the Canadians to close their ears to the call of the \"rebels\" and defend their country and their king against the invasion.\n\nAlthough both the British and the revolutionaries succeeded at recruiting Canadian men for militia, the majority of the people chose not to get involved in the conflict.\n\nIn 1778, Frederick Haldimand became governor in replacement of Guy Carleton. (He served up until 1786, when Guy Carleton (now Lord Dorchester) returned as governor.)\n\nSoon after the war, which ended with the signing of the Treaty of Paris in 1783, the constitutional question resurfaced.\n\nIn July 1784, Pierre du Calvet, a rich French merchant established in Montreal, published a pamphlet entitled \"Appel à la justice de l'État\" (Call to the Justice of the State) in London. Printed in French, the document is the first plea in favour of a constitutional reform in Canada. Du Calvet, imprisoned at the same time and for the same reasons as Fleury Mesplet and Valentine Jautard, both suspected of sympathizing and collaborating with the American revolutionaries during the war, undertook to have the injustice committed towards him be publicly known by publishing \"The Case of Peter du Calvet\" and, a few months later, his \"Appel à la justice de l'État\".\n\nOn November 24, 1784, two petition for a house of assembly, one signed by 1436 \"New Subjects\" (Canadians) and another signed by 855 \"Old Subjects\" (British), were sent to the king of Great Britain. The first petition contained 14 demands. \"A Plan for a House of Assembly\" was also sketched in the same month of November. In December, \"An Address to His Majesty in opposition to the House of Assembly and a list of Objections\" were printed by the press of Fleury Mesplet in Montreal. The main objection to the house of assembly was that the colony was not, according to its signatories, in a position to be taxed.\n\nAt the time the November 24 petition was submitted to the king, numerous United Empire Loyalists were already seeking refuge in Quebec and Nova Scotia. In Quebec, the newly arrived settlers contributed to increase the number of people voicing for a rapid constitutional reform. In Nova Scotia, the immigrants demanded a separate colony.\n\nIn 1786, the British government appointed Guy Carleton, as \"governor-in-chief\" and also governor of Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and St. John's Island (present-day Prince Edward Island). Carleton, now Lord Dorchester, had been British commander in Canada and governor of Quebec during the American Revolutionary War. When he returned as governor, he was already informed that the arrival of the Loyalists would require changes.\n\nOn October 20, 1789, Home Secretary William Wyndham Grenville wrote a private and secret letter to Carleton, informing him of the plans of the king's counsellors to modify Canada's constitution. The letter leaves little doubt as to the influence that American independence and the taking of the Bastille (which had just occurred in July) had on the decision. In the first paragraph, Grenville writes: \"I am persuaded that it is a point of true Policy to make these Concessions at a time when they may be received as matter of favour, and when it is in Our own power to regulate and direct the manner of applying them, rather than to wait 'till they shall be extorted from Us by a necessity which shall neither leave Us any discretion in the form, nor any merit in the substance of what we give.\"\n\nGrenville prepared the constitution in August 1789. But he was appointed to the House of Lords before he could submit his project to the House of Commons. Thus, Prime Minister William Pitt did it in his place.\n\nBritish merchants established in Quebec sent Adam Lymburner to Britain to present their objections. They objected to the creation of two provinces, suggested an increase in the number of representatives, asked for elections every three years (instead of seven), and requested an electoral division which would have overrepresented the Old Subjects by granting more representatives to the populations of the cities.\n\nLymburner's revisions were opposed by Whigs such as Charles James Fox, and in the end only the suggestions related to the frequency of elections and the number of representatives were retained.\n\nOn June 10, 1791, the Constitutional Act was enacted in London and gave Canada its first parliamentary constitution. Containing 50 articles, the act brought the following changes:\n\n\nThis partition ensured that Loyalists would constitute a majority in Upper Canada and allow for the application of exclusively British laws in this province. As soon as the province was divided, a series of acts were passed to abolish the French civil code in Upper Canada. In Lower Canada, the coexistence of French civil law and English criminal law continued.\n\nAlthough it solved the immediate problems related to the settlement of the Loyalists in Canada, the new constitution brought a whole new set of political problems which were rooted in the constitution. Some of these problems were common to both provinces, while others were unique to Lower Canada or Upper Canada. The problems that eventually affected both provinces were:\n\n\nIn the two provinces, a movement for constitutional reform took shape within the majority party, the Parti canadien of Lower Canada and the Reformers of Upper Canada. Leader of the Parti Canadien, Pierre-Stanislas Bédard was the first politician of Lower Canada to formulate a project of reform to put an end to the opposition between the elected Legislative Assembly and the Governor and his Council which answered only the Colonial Office in London. Putting forward the idea of ministerial responsibility, he proposed that the members of the Legislative Council be appointed by the Governor on the recommendation of the elected House.\n\nIn 1822, the Secretary of Colonial Office Lord Bathurst and his under-secretary Robert John Wilmot-Horton secretly submitted a bill to British House of Commons which projected the legislative union of the two Canadian provinces. Two months after the adjournment of the discussions on the bill, the news arrived in Lower Canada and caused a sharp reaction.\n\nSupported by Governor Dalhousie, anglophone petitioners from the Eastern Townships, Quebec City and Kingston, the bill submitted in London provided, among other things, that each of the two sections of the new united province would have a maximum of 60 representatives, which would have put the French-speaking majority of Lower Canada in a position of minority in the new Parliament.\n\nThe mobilization of the citizens of Lower Canada and Upper Canada began in late summer and petitions in opposition to the project were prepared. The subject was discussed as soon as the session at the Parliament of Lower Canada opened on January 11, 1823. Ten days later, on January 21, the Legislative Assembly adopted a resolution authorizing a Lower Canadian delegation to go to London in order to officially present the quasi-unanimous opposition of the representatives of Lower Canada to the project of union. Exceptionally, even the Legislative Council gave its support to this resolution, with a majority of one vote. Having in their possession a petition of some 60 000 signatures, the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Louis-Joseph Papineau, as well as John Neilson, Member of Parliament, went to London to present the opinion of the majority of the population which they represented.\n\nFaced with the massive opposition of people most concerned with the bill, the British government finally gave up the union project submitted for adoption by its own Colonial Office.\n\nA Select Committee of the House of Commons on the Civil Government of Canada was appointed on May 2, 1828 \"to enquire into the state of the civil government of Canada, as established by the Act 31 Geo. III., chap. 31, and to report their observations and opinions thereupon to the house.\"\n\nIt reported on July 22 of the same year. It recommended against the union of Upper Canada and Lower Canada and in favour of constitutional and administrative reforms intended to prevent the recurrence of the abuses complained of in Lower Canada.\n\nThese constituted a sort of declaration of rights on the part of the patriote party. They were drafted by A. N. Morin, but were inspired by Louis-Joseph Papineau. They demanded the application of the elective principle to the political institutions of the province, after the American model; but did not advocate, in any explicit way, the introduction of responsible government. Lord Aylmer, the governor-general of Canada at that time, in an analysis of the resolutions, maintained that \"eleven of them represented the truth; six contained truth mixed with falsehood; sixteen were wholly false; seventeen were doubtful; twelve were ridiculous; seven repetitions; fourteen consisted of abuse; four were both false and seditious; and the remaining five were indifferent.\"\n\nFollowing the adoption of the Ninety-Two Resolutions, the Governor Gosford arrived in Lower Canada to replace governor Aylmer. Gosford set up royal commission of inquiry conducted by Charles E. Gray and George Gipps. The Royal Commission for the Investigation of all Grievances Affecting His Majesty's Subjects of Lower Canada reported on November 17, 1836 and the Ten resolutions of John Russel were mostly based on it.\n\nOn March 2, 1837, John Russell, the British Colonial Secretary, submitted ten resolutions to the Parliament in response to the ninety-two resolutions. The Parliament adopted the resolutions on March 6.\n\nMost of the recommendations brought forth by the elected assemblies were systematically ignored by the Executive Councils. This was particularly true in Lower Canada with an assembly consisting mostly of French-Canadian members of the Parti Patriote. This impasse created considerable tensions between the French-Canadian political class and the British government. In 1834 Louis-Joseph Papineau, a French-Canadian political leader, submitted a document entitled the Ninety-Two Resolutions to the Crown. The document requested vast democratic reforms such as the transfer of power to elected representatives. The reply came three years later in the form of the Russell Resolutions, which not only rejected the 92 Resolutions but also revoked one of the assembly's few real powers, the power to pass its own budget. This rebuff heightened tensions and escalated into armed rebellions in 1837 and 1838, known as the Lower Canada Rebellion. The uprisings were short-lived, however, as British troops quickly defeated the rebels and burned their villages in reprisal.\n\nThe rebellion was also contained by the Catholic clergy, which, by representing the only French-Canadian institution with independent authority, exercised a tremendous influence over its constituents. During and after the rebellions Catholic priests and the bishop of Montreal told their congregants that questioning established authority was a sin that would prevent them from receiving the sacraments. The Church refused to give Christian burials to supporters of the rebellion. With liberal and progressive forces suppressed in Lower Canada, the Catholic Church's influence dominated the French-speaking side of French Canadian/British relations from the 1840s until the Quiet Revolution secularized Quebec society in the 1960s.\n\nApproximately four months after having proclaimed martial law in the district of Montreal, Governor Gosford suspended, on March 27, 1838, the Constitutional Act of 1791 and set up a Special Council.\n\nFollowing the rebellions, in May 1838, the British government sent Governor General Lord Durham to Lower and Upper Canada in order to investigate the uprisings and to bring forth solutions. His recommendations were formulated in what is known as \"Lord Durham's Report\" and suggested the forced union of the Canadas with the expressed purpose of \"making [Lower Canada] an English Province [that] should never again be placed in any hands but those of an English population.\" Doing so, he claimed, would speed up the assimilation of the French-Canadian population, \"a people with no history, and no literature\" into a homogenized English population. This would prevent what he considered to be ethnic conflicts.\n\nFollowing the publication of the Report on the Affairs of British North America, the British Parliament adopted, in June 1840, the Act of Union. The new Act, which effected the legislative union of Upper Canada and Lower Canada to form a single province named the Province of Canada, implemented the principal recommendation of John George Lambton's report, but did not grant a \"responsible government\" to the new political entity. Entering into force as of February 1841, the 62 articles of the Act of Union brought about the following changes:\n\n\nAs a result, Lower Canada and Upper Canada, with its enormous debt, were united in 1840, and French was banned in the legislature for about eight years. Eight years later, an elected and responsible government was granted. By this time, the French-speaking majority of Lower Canada had become a political minority in a unified Canada. This, as Lord Durham had recommended in his report, resulted in English political control over the French-speaking part of Canada, and ensured the colony's loyalty to the British crown. On the other hand, continual legislative deadlock between English and French led to a movement to replace unitary government with a federal one. This movement culminated in Canadian Confederation.\n\nMinisterial responsibility, the principal object of parliamentary struggles conducted by the Parti Canadien in Lower Canada and the Reformers in Upper Canada, becomes a reality in 1848, when Governor Lord Elgin agreed to let the leaders of the majority parties in Canada-East and the Canada-West, Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine and Robert Baldwin, form their own Executive Council. The Province of Canada therefore had its first government made up of members taken in the elected House of Assembly. This important change occurred a few months after Governor of Nova Scotia, Sir John Harvey, let James Boyle Uniacke form his own government. Nova Scotia thus became the first colony of the British Empire to have a government comparable to that of Great Britain itself.\n\nIn 1858, Joseph-Charles Taché, doctor and journalist from Quebec City, published a detailed project of federation. It was the first time that a project of this type was presented publicly since the proposal that John A. Roebuck had made in the same direction to John George Lambton while he was a governor of the Canadas in 1838.\n\nThe same year, Alexander T. Galt, Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, agreed to become a Minister of Finance in the Macdonald-Cartier government provided that his own project of confederation is accepted.\n\nThe British North America Act 1867 was the act that established the Dominion of Canada, by the confederation of the North American British colonies of the Province of Canada, Province of New Brunswick, Province of Nova Scotia. The former subdivisions of Canada were renamed from Canada West and Canada East to the Province of Ontario and Province of Quebec, respectively. Quebec and Ontario were given equal footing with New Brunswick and Nova Scotia in the Parliament of Canada. This was done to counter the claims of manifest destiny made by the United States of America, for the defense of Britain's holdings. American claims are evinced by the invasions of the Canadas during the British-American War (1812) and the British-American War (1776).\n\nPrior to the BNA Act of 1867, the British colonies of the Province of New Brunswick, Province of Nova Scotia, and Province of Prince Edward Island, discussed the possibility of a fusion to counter the threat of American annexation, and to reduce the costs of governance. The Province of Canada entered these negotiations at the behest of the British government, and this led to the ambivalence of the Province of Prince Edward Island, which later joined the new Dominion. The constitutional conference, ironically, was held on Prince Edward Island, in Charlottetown. The colony of Newfoundland also participated (at the Quebec Conference) and likewise declined to join.\n\nOn May 12, 1870, the British Crown proclaimed the \"Manitoba Act\", enacted by the Parliament of Canada, effectively giving birth to the province of Manitoba. The 36 articles of the Act established the territorial limits, the subjects' right to vote, the representation in the Canadian House of Commons, the number of senators, the provincial legislature, permitted the use of English and French in the Parliament and in front of the courts and authorized the setting-up of a denominational education system.\n\nThe coexistence, on the territory of the province, of French-speaking and Catholic communities (the Métis) as well as English-speaking and Protestant communities (British and Anglo-Canadian immigrants) explains the institutional arrangement copied from that of Quebec.\n\nCanada and the other British dominions achieved full legislative sovereignty with the passage of the Statute of Westminster 1931, but prior to the Canada Act 1982 the British North America Acts were excluded from the operation of the Statute of Westminster and could only be amended by the British Parliament.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the Quiet Revolution, stemming from a new assertiveness and a heightened sense of national identity among Québécois, dramatically changed the face of Quebec's institutions. The new provincial government headed by Jean Lesage and operating under the slogans \"Il faut que ça change!\" and \"Maître chez nous\" (\"It must change!\", \"Masters in our own house\") secularized government institutions, nationalized electricity production and encouraged unionization. The reforms sought to redefine the relations between the vastly working-class francophone Québécois and the mostly anglophone business class. Thus passive Catholic nationalism stylized by Father Lionel Groulx gave way to a more active pursuit of independence, and in 1963 the first bombings by the Front de libération du Québec occurred. The FLQ's violent pursuit of a socialist and independent Quebec culminated in the 1970 kidnappings of British diplomat, James Cross and then the provincial minister of labour, Pierre Laporte in what is known as the October Crisis.\n\nThe Quiet Revolution also forced the evolution of several political parties, and so, in 1966, a reformed Union Nationale led by Daniel Johnson, Sr., returned to power under the slogan \"Equality or Independence\". The new premier of Quebec stated, \"As a basis for its nationhood, Quebec wants to be master of its own decision-making in what concerns the human growth of its citizens—that is to say education, social security and health in all their aspects—their economic affirmation—the power to set up economic and financial institutions they feel are required—their cultural development—not only the arts and letters, but also the French language—and the Quebec community's external development—its relations with certain countries and international bodies\".\n\nThe Fulton Formula was named for federal Minister of Justice E. Davie Fulton. It proposed an amending formula that included unanimous consent of Parliament and all provinces for select areas of jurisdiction, the consent of Parliament and of the provinces concerned for provisions affecting one or more, but not all of the provinces, the consent of Parliament and of all the provinces except Newfoundland in matters of education, and the consent of Parliament and of the legislature of Newfoundland in matters of education in that province. For all other amendments, consent of Parliament and of at least two-thirds of the provincial legislatures representing at least 50 per cent of the population of Canada would be required. Agreement amongst the provinces was not achieved and the proposal was not implemented, but it was revived again with the Fulton-Favreau Formula in 1964, and several components were included in the Constitution Act, 1982.\n\nFor the federal government this demand for an enormous shift in power to a province done under a threat of a possible unilateral declaration of independence, was cause for great alarm. In 1967, on the initiative of Premier John Robarts of Ontario, a provincial first ministers' conference was held in Toronto to discuss the Canadian confederation of the future. From this, a first round of what would become annual constitutional meetings of all provincial premiers and the prime minister of Canada, was held in February 1968. On the initiative of Prime Minister Lester Pearson the conference undertook to address the desires of Quebec. Amongst numerous initiatives, the conference members examined the recommendations of a Bilingualism and Biculturalism Commission, the question of a Charter of Rights, regional disparities, and the timelines of a general review of the constitution (the British North America Act).\n\nIn 1968, René Lévesque's Mouvement souveraineté-association joined forces with the Rassemblement pour l'indépendance nationale and the Ralliement national to create the Parti Québécois; Quebec's provincial political party that has since espoused the province's sovereignty. That same year, Pierre Trudeau became prime minister of Canada by winning the leadership race of the federal Liberal Party. He would undertake numerous legislative measures to enhance the status of Quebec within Canada, including the passage into law in 1969 of the Official Languages Act, which expanded upon the original official language status of both French and English from the 1867 British North America Act.\n\nThe Fulton-Favreau formula was a proposed formula of amendment of the Constitution of Canada developed by federal justice minister E. Davie Fulton and Quebec Liberal Guy Favreau in the 1960s and approved at a federal-provincial conference in 1965. The formula would have achieved the patriation of the Constitution. Under the formula, all provinces would have to approve amendments that would be relevant to provincial jurisdiction, including the use of the French and English languages, but only the relevant provinces would be needed to approve amendments concerned with a particular region of Canada. The provinces would have been given the right to enact laws amending their respective constitutions, except for provisions concerning the office of Lieutenant Governor. Two-thirds of the provinces representing half of the population, as well as the federal Parliament, would be needed for amendments regarding education. The formula officially died in 1965 when Quebec Premier Jean Lesage withdrew his support. Modified versions re-emerged in the Victoria Charter (1971) and in the Constitution Act, 1982.\n\nThe 1971 Victoria Conference, a meeting between the federal government and the provinces, brought about the Victoria Charter. This Charter sought to establish a formula for amending the Constitution without requiring the unanimous consent of the provinces. Notably, it would give a veto to any province having or having ever had 25 percent of the Canadian population, thus essentially giving Quebec and Ontario veto powers. The provinces were supposed to confirm their acceptance by June 28, 1971, but a change of premiers in Saskatchewan and the reluctance of the federal government to recommend the Charter to Quebec's legislature, due to deficiencies in the clauses dealing with income security, led to the failure of this initiative.\n\nBill C-60 was tabled in the House of Commons by the Prime Minister It contained a guarantee of \"the right of the individual to the use and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except in accordance with law.\" This language was contentious, especially in PEI. and as a result, Bill C-60 was referred to the Supreme Court of Canada, prior to passage. The reference contained questions on the Senate. The SCC ruled, in Re British North America Act and the Federal Senate (1979), 30 NR 271, that the federal government could act in matters related to section 91.1 of the British North America Act only with regards to matters of exclusive federal jurisdiction. The government chose to discontinue Bill C-60 as a result of this decision.\n\nIn 1976 the Parti Québécois won the provincial election in Quebec with a 41.4 per cent to 33.8 per cent margin over the Parti libéral du Québec, and in the 1980 Quebec referendum the Parti Québécois sought a mandate from the people of Quebec to negotiate new terms of association with the rest of Canada. With an 84-per-cent voter turnout, 60 per cent of Quebec voters rejected the proposal.\n\nAfter the 1980 referendum was defeated, the government of Quebec passed Resolution 176, which stated, \"A lasting solution to the constitutional issue presupposes recognition of the Quebec-Canada duality.\"\n\nMeeting in Ottawa on June 9, 1980, the newly re-appointed Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau and the provincial premiers set an agenda and gave their ministers responsibility for constitutional issues and a mandate to proceed with exploratory discussions to create a new Canadian constitution. However, given the separatist government of Quebec's position that there be two nations established first in accordance with Resolution 176, approval by Quebec of any changes to the BNA Act was impossible. This assertion of national duality was immediately followed with Resolution 177 that stated, \"Quebec will never agree, under the existing system, to the patriation of the Constitution and to an amending formula as long as the whole issue of the distribution of powers has not been settled and Quebec has not been guaranteed all the powers it needs for its development.\" As such, Quebec's government refused to approve the new Canadian constitution a year later. This failure to approve was a highly symbolic act, but one without direct legal consequence as no one questions the authority of the Canadian Constitution within Quebec.\n\nAfter losing the vote to secede from Canada, the government of Quebec made specific demands as minimum requirements for the Province of Quebec. These demands included control by the government of Quebec over:\n\nThe province of Quebec already had theoretically full control over education, health, mineral resources, supplemental taxation, social services, seniors' retirement pension funds, inter-provincial trade, and other areas affecting the daily lives of its citizens. Many Canadians viewed the additional demands as too greatly reducing the power of the federal government, assigning it the role of tax collector and manager of the national border with the United States. Others viewed these changes as desirable, concentrating power in the hands of Québécois politicians, who were more in tune with Québécois desires and interests.\n\nThough the Parti Québécois government said that the federal government of Canada would be responsible for international relations, Quebec proceeded to open its own representative offices in foreign countries around the world. These quasi-embassies were officially named \"Quebec Houses\". Today, the international affairs minister is responsible for the less-expensive Quebec delegation system.\n\nSubsequently, an agreement between the federal government and all provincial governments, except that of Quebec, agreed to Canada's assumption of full responsibility for its own constitution in 1982 (formerly the responsibility of the Parliament of the United Kingdom). The agreement was enacted as the Canada Act by the British Parliament, and was proclaimed into law by Queen Elizabeth II on April 17, 1982. In Canada, this was called the patriation of the Constitution.\n\nThis action (including the creation of a new Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms) came from an initiative by Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau to create a multicultural and bilingual society in all of Canada. Some Canadians saw Trudeau's actions as an attempt to \"shove French down their throats\" (a common phrase at the time). Many Québécois viewed his compromise as a sell-out and useless: Quebec already had a charter enacted in 1975 and was not interested in imposing French on other provinces; rather, it wished to safeguard it inside Quebec. Many Canadians recognize that the province of Quebec is distinct and unique but they do not conclude from this that Quebec merits a position of greater autonomy than the other provinces, which they feel would be the result of granting special powers that are unavailable to the other provinces.\n\nThe government of Quebec, in line with its policy of the duality of nations, objected to the new Canadian constitutional arrangement of 1982 (the patriation), because its formula for future constitutional amendments failed to give Quebec veto power over all constitutional changes.\n\nSome believe that the leaders of Quebec used their refusal to agree to the 1982 constitutional amendment as a bargaining tool to gain leverage in future negotiations, because the federal Canadian government desired (though it is not legally necessary) to include all the provinces willingly into the amended constitution. The National Assembly of Quebec rejected the repatriation unanimously. In spite of Quebec's lack of assent, the constitution still applies within Quebec and to all Quebec residents. Many in Quebec felt that the other provinces' adoption of the amendment without Quebec's assent was a betrayal of the central tenets of federalism. They referred to the decision as the \"Night of the Long Knives\". On the other hand, many federalists believe that Lévesque's goal at the constitutional conference was to sabotage it and prevent any agreement from being reached, so that he could hold it up as another failure of federalism. In this school of thought, patriation without Quebec's consent was the only option.\n\nSince Canada's constitution was patriated without Quebec's consent, later initiatives would seek to ameliorate the constitutional \"status quo\", with varying results. Two formal, and unsuccessful, attempts were made to reform the constitution. A subsequent sovereignty referendum in 1995 – only narrowly lost – shook Canada to its core, and would bring about the Clarity Act .\n\nIn 1987, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney attempted to address these concerns and bring the province into an amended constitution. Quebec's provincial government, then controlled by a party that advocated remaining in Canada on certain conditions (the Parti libéral du Québec), endorsed the accord (called the Meech Lake Accord). Premier Robert Bourassa of Quebec referred to it as the \"first step\" towards gaining new powers from the federal government. The accord failed, however, as the legislature in Manitoba deadlocked after Elijah Harper refused consent to speed up the process enough to pass the Accord, and Clyde Wells refused to grant a vote on the Accord in the Newfoundland House of Assembly.\n\nIn 1990, after the Meech Lake Accord had failed, several Quebec representatives of the ruling Progressive Conservative Party and some members of the Liberal Party of Canada formed the Bloc Québécois, a federal political party intent on defending Quebecers' interests while pursuing independence.\n\nThe federal government, the twelve provincial and territorial governments, and four first peoples' groups then negotiated a second proposed constitutional accord in 1992—the Charlottetown Accord. Despite near-unanimous support from the country's political leaders, this second effort at constitutional reform was rejected in a nationwide October 1992 referendum. Only 32 per cent of British Columbians supported the accord, because it was seen there and in other western provinces as blocking their hopes for future constitutional changes, such as Senate reform. In Quebec 57 per cent opposed the accord, seeing it as a step backwards compared to the Meech Lake Accord.\n\nIn the 1993 federal elections the Bloc Québécois became the official opposition. The following year, the provincial Parti Québécois, also separatist, was elected in Quebec. The two parties' popularity led to a second referendum on independence, the 1995 Quebec referendum.\n\nA referendum held in Quebec on October 30, 1995 resulted in a narrow 50.56%-to-49.44% decision against Quebec sovereignty, with a 93% voter turnout.\n\nCanadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien referred the matter over whether a province could unilaterally secede from the federation to the Supreme Court of Canada in December 1999. In its Quebec Secession Reference decision, the Court ruled that the Canadian constitution did not give provinces the power to unilaterally secede. However, it also ruled that, in the event that a clear majority of the population voted in favour of a clear referendum question on secession, the democratic principles of the constitution required political leaders to respond to that result in good faith. \n\nFollowing the Supreme Court's decision, the federal government introduced legislation known as the Clarity Act which set forth the guidelines for the federal government to recognize any future provincial referendum on secession. The Act set out that, after a such a referendum was held, the Parliament of Canada would determine whether the question was clear and whether a \"clear majority\" was attained. The legislation was supported by all members of the House of Commons, except for members of the Bloc Québécois. In response, the Quebec government passed Bill 99, asserting that the Quebec government had the right to submit referendum questions to voters, to determine the referendum question's wording, and to accept a 50%+1 vote as the required winning majority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38990978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38990978", "title": "Consumer Guarantees Act 1993", "text": "Consumer Guarantees Act 1993\n\nThe Consumer Guarantees Act (CGA) 1993 was a significant improvement of consumer protection in New Zealand over its predecessor The Sale of Goods Act 1908, and rectifies a lot of its shortcomings.\n\nOne of the CGA's biggest changes was that it now extended protection to consumers for the supply of services, and not just for purchases of goods under the old Act. Another change was that the CGA explicitly outlawed a merchant from contracting out of the CGA, such as having a \"no refunds\" or \"no returns\" displayed.\n\nThe CGA gives guarantees to free title, quality, fitness for purpose and price of consumer goods. The goods must also comply with description and with sample. If a good is faulty, the Act gives the retailer a reasonable time to either fix or replace the goods, otherwise the consumer has the right to reject the goods, cancel the contract, and obtain a full refund from the retailer. The legislation has now been amended to include online purchases, including auction websites as Trademe.\n\nThe CGA gives guarantees of reasonable care and skill, of fitness for purpose, of completion, and of price for consumer services supplied.\n\nWhile the CGA was a significant improvement over the SGA, the CGA does not apply to either commercial goods, or consumer good or services supplied for business purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4980483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4980483", "title": "Crossclaim", "text": "Crossclaim\n\nA crossclaim is a claim asserted between codefendants or coplaintiffs in a case and that relates to the subject of the original claim or counterclaim according to \"Black's Law Dictionary\". A cross claim is filed against someone who is a co-defendant or co-plaintiff to the party who originates the crossclaim. In common law, a crossclaim is a demand made in a pleading that is filed against a party which is on the \"same side\" of the lawsuit.\n\nIn the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure this is codified in Rule 13(g). In the federal rules, a crossclaim is proper if it relates to a matter of the original jurisdiction. Proper jurisdiction is determined by a finding of whether the suit that is being initiated arises from the same transaction or occurrence that is the subject matter of the suit.\n\nThe policy for allowing crossclaims is that they promote efficiency and consistency. Furthermore, the same underlying facts will be litigated on the main claim as well as on the crossclaim preserving efficiency in the judicial system by resolving multiple claims that might arise between the parties as opposed to courts trying each claim individually and re-litigating the same facts. Furthermore, this will prevent inconsistent verdicts that might harm the public perception of the judicial process. Finally, because crossclaims are not mandatory, they allow the moving party the opportunity to sue later. The plaintiff is the master of his complaint, and this also holds true in crossclaims.\n"}
{"id": "1805538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805538", "title": "Data cap", "text": "Data cap\n\nA data cap, often erroneously referred to as a bandwidth cap, is an artificial restriction imposed on the transfer of data over a network. In particular, it refers to policies imposed by an internet service provider in order to limit customers' usage of their services; typically, exceeding a data cap would require the subscriber to pay additional fees based on whether they have exceeded this limit. Implementation of a bandwidth cap is sometimes termed a fair access policy, fair usage policy, or usage-based billing.\n\nU.S. ISPs have asserted that bandwidth caps are required in order to provide a \"fair\" service to their respective subscribers. The use of bandwidth caps has been criticized for becoming increasingly unnecessary, as decreasing infrastructure costs have made it cheaper for ISPs to increase the capacity of their networks to keep up with the demands of their users, rather than place arbitrary limits on usage. It has also been asserted that bandwidth caps are meant to help protect pay television providers that may also be owned by an ISP from competition with over-the-top streaming services.\n\nAlthough often referred to as a \"bandwidth cap\", it is not the actual bandwidth (bits per second) that is limited, but the amount of data downloaded per month.\n\nGenerally, each user of a network is expected to use high speed transmission for a short time, for example to download a megabyte web page in less than a second. Continuous usage, such as when sharing files or streaming videos can seriously impair service for others. In DSL, where the core network is shared but the access network is not, this concept is less relevant. However, it becomes more relevant in cable internet, where both the core network and the access network are shared, and on wireless networks, where the total network bandwidth is also relatively narrow.\n\nIn 2016, U.S. provider Comcast offered a service plan with a data cap of 1 terabyte. At contemporary data consumption rates, each member of a family of four would need to separately watch 100 movies in a month to approach the cap. In that case, typical data usage habits would not exceed that cap.\n\n\"Unlimited data\" is a marketing promotion in which an Internet service provider offers access to Internet without cutting service at the data cap. However, after a user passes some data cap, the provider will begin bandwidth throttling to decrease the user's speed of access to data.\n\nAs of October 2015, there were 58 wired broadband providers in the US that used data caps, among them major wireless cell phone providers such as Verizon Wireless and AT&T.\n\nBefore 2010 there was a trend of providing unlimited data without bandwidth throttling. In the United States the Federal Communication Commission has fined service providers for offering unlimited data in a way that misled consumers. In June 2015, the FCC fined AT&T Mobility for misleading consumers. In October 2016 the FCC reached a settlement with T-Mobile in which they would pay for failing to disclose restrictions on their unlimited data plans.\n\nU.S. internet service providers have most recently asserted that data caps are needed in order to provide \"fair\", tiered services at different price points based on speed and usage.\n\nIn 2016, Sonic.net CEO Dane Jasper criticized the historical assertions that data caps are meant to conserve network capacity, arguing that the cost of actually delivering service had \"declined much faster than the increase in data traffic\". When it was first established in 2008, Sonic's infrastructure costs were equivalent to 20% of its revenue, but it had fell to only 1.5% by 2016 due to the lowering costs of equipment. Suddenlink CEO Jerry Kent made a similar assertion in an investor's call, stating that the \"days\" of having to make investments to keep up with customer demand were \"over\", and there would be \"significant free cash flow generated from the cable operators as our capital expenditures continue to come down.\"\n\nAs most major U.S. internet providers own television providers, it has also been suggested that data caps are intended to discourage users from dropping their pay television subscriptions by placing \"de facto\" restrictions on the use of competing streaming video services that are delivered over the internet, such as Netflix. The lobbying group Internet Association additionally argued that data caps are meant to create \"artificial scarcity\", especially in markets where there is limited competition in broadband, also pointing out that some providers offer their own streaming video services that are exempted from data cap policies, such as Comcast's Stream TV. Comcast defended the exemption by stating that the service is not delivered over the public internet; it can only be used while connected to the provider's home Wi-Fi router.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15462089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15462089", "title": "Digital Switchover (Disclosure of Information) Act 2007", "text": "Digital Switchover (Disclosure of Information) Act 2007\n\nThe Digital Switchover (Disclosure of Information) Act 2007 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that allows social security information to be passed to the BBC and related parties to help with the digital television switchover in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Digital Switchover Help Scheme was established and funded by the BBC to provide free advice to:\n\nThe intention of the Act was to help people receive assistance from the Scheme without having to go through a claims process. The UK switchover started in October 2007 in the town of Whitehaven and the Act came too late to adequately prepare the town. The BBC, through their consultants Capita, had to resort to writing to all the town's residents to invite them to apply under the Scheme. The Act was supported by Help the Aged, Age Concern, the National Consumer Council, Royal National Institute for the Blind, Royal National Institute for the Deaf and the National Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux.\n\nInformation on disability and age can only be disclosed for:\n\nFurther specification of the information that can be disclosed is given by Statutory Instrument.\n\nIt is a crime to disclose information received under the Act, other than in summary form. An offender can be sentenced on summary conviction to up to six months' imprisonment and a fine of up to £5,000. If convicted on indictment in the Crown Court and offender can be sentenced to up to two years' imprisonment and an unlimited fine.\n\nIf the offence is committed by a body corporate and with the consent or connivance of an officer, director or manager, that person is also guilty of an offence.\n\nThe Act purports to extend by an Order in Council to the Isle of Man. The Isle of Man is a Crown dependency and the power of the Parliament of the United Kingdom to legislate for the dependency is a confused and controversial matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2293988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293988", "title": "Digital evidence", "text": "Digital evidence\n\nDigital evidence or electronic evidence is any probative information stored or transmitted in digital form that a party to a court case may use at trial. Before accepting digital evidence a court will determine if the evidence is relevant, whether it is authentic, if it is hearsay and whether a copy is acceptable or the original is required.\n\nThe use of digital evidence has increased in the past few decades as courts have allowed the use of e-mails, digital photographs, ATM transaction logs, word processing documents, instant message histories, files saved from accounting programs, spreadsheets, internet browser histories, databases, the contents of computer memory, computer backups, computer printouts, Global Positioning System tracks, logs from a hotel’s electronic door locks, and digital video or audio files.\n\nMany courts in the United States have applied the Federal Rules of Evidence to digital evidence in a similar way to traditional documents, although important differences such as the lack of established standards and procedures have been noted. In addition, digital evidence tends to be more voluminous, more difficult to destroy, easily modified, easily duplicated, potentially more expressive, and more readily available. As such, some courts have sometimes treated digital evidence differently for purposes of authentication, hearsay, the best evidence rule, and privilege. In December 2006, strict new rules were enacted within the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure requiring the preservation and disclosure of electronically stored evidence. Digital evidence is often attacked for its authenticity due to the ease with which it can be modified, although courts are beginning to reject this argument without proof of tampering.\n\nDigital evidence is often ruled inadmissible by courts because it was obtained without authorization. In most jurisdictions a warrant is required to seize and investigate digital devices. In a digital investigation this can present problems where, for example, evidence of other crimes are identified while investigating another. During a 1999 investigation into online harassment by Keith Schroeder investigators found pornographic images of children on his computer. A second warrant had to be obtained before the evidence could be used to charge Schroeder.\n\nAs with any evidence, the proponent of digital evidence must lay the proper foundation. Courts largely concerned themselves with the reliability of such digital evidence. As such, early court decisions required that authentication called \"for a more comprehensive foundation.\" US v. Scholle, 553 F.2d 1109 (8th Cir. 1976). As courts became more familiar with digital documents, they backed away from the higher standard and have since held that \"computer data compilations… should be treated as any other record.\" US v. Vela, 673 F.2d 86, 90 (5th Cir. 1982).\n\nA common attack on digital evidence is that digital media can be easily altered. However, in 2002 a US court ruled that \"the fact that it is possible to alter data contained in a computer is plainly insufficient to establish untrustworthiness\" (US v. Bonallo, 858 F. 2d 1427 - 1988 - Court of Appeals, 9th).\n\nNevertheless, the \"more comprehensive\" foundation required by \"Scholle\" remains good practice. The American Law Reports lists a number of ways to establish the comprehensive foundation. It suggests that the proponent demonstrate \"the reliability of the computer equipment\", \"the manner in which the basic data was initially entered\", \"the measures taken to ensure the accuracy of the data as entered\", \"the method of storing the data and the precautions taken to prevent its loss\", \"the reliability of the computer programs used to process the data\", and \"the measures taken to verify the accuracy of the program\".\n\nIn its turn it gave rise to a breed of commercial software technology solutions designed to preserve digital evidence in its original form and to authenticate it for admissibility in disputes and in court.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, examiners usually follow guidelines issued by the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) for the authentication and integrity of evidence. They were updated to Version 5 in October 2011 when computer based evidence was replaced with digital evidence reflecting the development of investigating information security incidents in a wider context. The guidelines consist of four principles:\n\nPrinciple 1: No action taken by law enforcement agencies, persons employed within those agencies or their agents should change data which may subsequently be relied upon in court. \nPrinciple 2: In circumstances where a person finds it necessary to access original data, that person must be competent to do so and be able to give evidence explaining the relevance and the implications of their actions. \nPrinciple 3: An audit trail or other record of all processes applied to digital evidence should be created and preserved. An independent third party should be able to examine those processes and achieve the same result. \nPrinciple 4: The person in charge of the investigation has overall responsibility for ensuring that the law and these principles are adhered to.\n\nThese guidelines are widely accepted in courts of England and Scotland, but they do not constitute a legal requirement and their use is voluntary. It is arguable that whilst voluntary, non adherence is almost certain to lead to the exclusion of evidence that does not comply subject to the provisions of s 78 Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (Power to exclude evidence obtained unfairly)\n\nBuilding on the ACPO Guidelines with a more generic application outside of law enforcement, a doctoral thesis proposed the following overriding principles to be followed by digital forensic practitioners:\n\nDigital evidence is almost never in a format readable by humans, requiring additional steps to include digital documents as evidence (i.e. printing out the material). It has been argued that this change of format may mean digital evidence does not qualify under the \"best evidence rule\". However, the \"Federal Rules of Evidence\" rule 1001(3) states \"if data are stored in a computer…, any printout or other output readable by sight, shown to reflect the data accurately, is an ‘original.’\"\n\nCommonly courts do not bar printouts under the best evidence rule. In \"Aguimatang v. California State Lottery\", the court gave near \"per se\" treatment to the admissibility of digital evidence stating \"the computer printout does not violate the best evidence rule, because a computer printout is considered an ‘original.’\" 234 Cal. App. 3d 769, 798.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nEurope:\n\nAustralia:\n\nCanada:\n\nEngland and Wales:\n\nUnited States of America on discovery and evidence:\n\nUnited States of America on discovery:\n\nUnited States of America on visual evidence:\n\n"}
{"id": "25888814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25888814", "title": "Dominica–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement", "text": "Dominica–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement\n\nThe Dominica–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement is a 1987 treaty between Dominica and France which delimits the maritime boundary between Dominica and the French islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique. It was the first maritime boundary treaty in the Central America/Caribbean region to be based on the rules of the Convention on the Law of the Sea.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Paris on 7 September 1987. The text of the treaty sets out two boundaries. The first boundary separates Dominica from Guadeloupe to its north. The boundary is 298 nautical miles long and is a simplified equidistant line that runs through the Dominica Passage in roughly an east–west direction. It consists of seven straight-line maritime segments defined by eight individual coordinate points.\n\nThe more southern boundary separates Dominica from Martinique to its south. The boundary is 294 nautical miles long and is a simplified equidistant line that runs through the Martinique Passage in roughly an east–west direction and roughly parallel to the first boundary. It consists of five straight-line segments defined by six individual coordinate points.\n\nThe treaty came into force on 23 December 1988 after it had been ratified by both states. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement on Maritime Delimitation between the Government of French Republic and the Government of Dominica\". The treaty was signed by French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac and Dominica Prime Minister Eugenia Charles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30696983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30696983", "title": "Ellis Act", "text": "Ellis Act\n\nThe Ellis Act (California Government Code Chapter 12.75) is a 1985 California state law that allows landlords to evict residential tenants to \"go out of the rental business\" in spite of desires by local governments to compel them to continue providing housing.\n\nThe Ellis Act prohibits local entities, such as cities, from having rent control ordinances that prevent owners of housing from evicting tenants if the landlord is required to continue providing housing. The Act does not limit ordinances that control landlords who continue renting. For example, an ordinance may prevent a landlord from evicting a tenant and then renting to another tenant.\n\nTo take advantage of the Ellis Act, a landlord must terminate all residential tenancies and withdraw all \"accommodations,\" which roughly means all \"residential rental units.\" The landlord cannot, for instance, terminate the tenancies of rental units with lower, rent-controlled, rents and maintain market rate tenancies at the same time.\n\nLocal entities are permitted to place various restrictions on the landlord's ability to go out of business. For instance, cities may require landlords to file a \"notice of intent to withdraw,\" provide the city with information about the tenancy (such as names of tenants, dates of commencement, and rental rates). Cities may require the payment of relocation assistance \"to mitigate any adverse impact on persons displaced\" or an extension of the termination date of tenancies from the standard 120 days to a full year from the commencement of the withdrawal process if tenants claim to be at least 62 or disabled.\n\nThe city may also impose restrictions against the future rental use of the property. It may require that if the landlord offers the withdrawn units for lease within ten years of withdrawal, the unit must be offered to the displaced tenant(s), and that if the unit is offered within the first five years, it must be offered to the displaced tenant(s) at the former rental rate.\n\nImplementing statutes vary by city and so there are different requirements in each jurisdiction:\n\n\nIf withdrawn residential units can no longer be rented, property owners invoking the Ellis Act often sell apartments as individual tenancy-in-common (\"TIC\") units. Some cities, such as San Francisco, impose strict restrictions on withdrawn property (such as preventing condominium conversion or the adding of \"accessory dwelling units\"). However, a 2016 decision by the First District Court of Appeals upheld a challenge against San Francisco's ordinance preventing Ellis Act \"mergers\" of units and found that state law occupies the field of substantive eviction controls \"for owners attempting to withdraw units from the residential rental market\" and suggested that the Ellis Act may impose a limit on post-withdrawal \"penalties\" that seek to discourage the use of that right under state law.\n\nThe Ellis Act is named after Republican State Senator (1981-1988) James \"Jim\" L. Ellis, a former representative of San Diego.\n\n\"Nash v. City of Santa Monica\" (1984) 37 Cal. 3d 97 was a decision by the California Supreme Court that landlords may not evict tenants to stop being a landlord. The California legislature passed the Ellis Act in response. That case was \"Nash v. City of Santa Monica\" (1984) 37 Cal.3d 97.\n\nTenant groups in San Francisco and Los Angeles claim that California landlords commonly misuse the Ellis Act \"to bypass rent control\" and to cash in during peak housing market periods by managing rent-stabilized properties to vacancy, when they might demolish buildings to build pricey condominiums, retenant newly-vacated units at top-market rents, or resell buildings at much higher prices than they bought, once they are no longer value-encumbered by the presence of long-term, rent-stabilized tenants.\n\nThe Ellis Act has been the focus of many tenants rights groups other anti-eviction movements in San Francisco. On November 2014, Proposition G was proposed to add a tax on real estate speculation to slow down the number of no-fault evictions caused by the Ellis Act. Groups have argued that the rising number of evictions because of the Ellis Act is contributing to the gentrification of San Francisco.\n"}
{"id": "33020418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33020418", "title": "Enguerrand IV, Lord of Coucy", "text": "Enguerrand IV, Lord of Coucy\n\nEnguerrand IV, Lord of Coucy (c. 1236 – 1311) was the younger brother and successor of Raoul II, Lord of Coucy, serving as the powerful Sire de Coucy from his brother's death in 1250 until his own in 1311.\n\nEnguerrand IV succeeded to the large fief established by his father, Enguerrand the Great, due to his elder brother's death on Crusade. His rule was notable for his crimes and cruelty. Setting an important medieval legal precedent, King Louis IX refused to allow him trial by combat for the hanging of three Flemish squires found on his land, and imprisoned him instead. In the end, Enguerrand escaped with a fine, and through his wealth remained important to the King, lending him 15,000 livres in 1265 to purchase a piece of the True Cross. He was married twice, one wife being Jeanne of Flanders, daughter of Robert III, Count of Flanders. He had no children by either marriage and was succeeded by the second son of his sister, Alix, who became Enguerrand V.\n"}
{"id": "43359815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359815", "title": "Executive Order 13672", "text": "Executive Order 13672\n\nExecutive Order 13672, signed by U.S. President Barack Obama on July 21, 2014, amended two earlier executive orders to extend protection against discrimination in hiring and employment to additional classes. It prohibited discrimination in the civilian federal workforce on the basis of gender identity and in hiring by federal contractors on the basis of both sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThis executive order amended President Richard Nixon's Executive Order 11478 (1969), which originally prohibited discrimination in the competitive service of the federal civilian workforce on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, and age. It had been amended in 1998 by President Bill Clinton's Executive Order 13087 to include sexual orientation. Executive Order 13672 added \"gender identity\".\n\nThis executive order also amended President Lyndon B. Johnson's 1965 Executive Order 11246, which originally punished discrimination by federal government contractors and sub-contractors on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Executive Order 13672 added \"sexual orientation and gender identity\".\n\nThe section of this order that applies to the federal workforce is effective immediately. The changes that affect government contractors take effect once the Department of Labor provides regulations supporting them, which White House a spokesman said would occur early in 2015.\n\nWhile campaigning for the presidency in 2008, Obama had promised an executive order banning workplace discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. On the basis of his campaign statement's, LGBT activists had long expected President Obama to issue an executive order prohibiting government contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. In January 2012, a group of LGBT advocates made their case for an executive order to the staff of Representative Barney Frank, the principal sponsor of federal legislation, the proposed Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), that would ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in employment nationwide. It called an executive order an interim measure that would provide \"a strong precedent for congressional passage of ENDA.\" Their presentation included research from the Williams Institute at UCLA to show that many federal contractors' employees were already protected against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation by corporate policy, state statute, or local law. While LGBT advocates remained guarded about the possibility that an executive would be forthcoming, some were optimistic and one even said: \"I predict the president will sign the ENDA executive order during the next few months or, maybe, he will save it for pride month in June.\"\n\nIn March 2012, 72 Democratic members of Congress led by Representative Frank Pallone of New Jersey asked the president to issue an executive order. They noted that most of the federal government's 25 largest contractors already had such policies, including all of the top five: Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, and General Dynamics. Questioned about reports that President Obama was not about to release an executive order, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said on April 12 that the administration was supporting ENDA, \"a legislative solution to LGBT employment discrimination\", a strategy he compared to the president's earlier efforts to win repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act. He said:\n\nJoe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, called the president's position disappointing and said: \"Given the number of employees that would be covered by this executive order, it represents a critical step forward.\" \n\nHouse members reiterated their request in another letter in March 2013 with 110 signers. In April 2013, the Obama administration told LGBT advocacy groups that it was still supporting ENDA and cited growing support for the legislation in Congress. In late April 2014, Vice President Joseph Biden reiterated the administration position, but agreed there was \"no downside\" to issuing an executive order covering government contractors. A writer in \"U.S. News & World Report\" noted that the administration had made similar arguments about the need for Congress to legislate an increase in the minimum wage and then, in the absence of Congressional action, issued an executive order in January 2014 to raise the rate paid by government contractors. In a change of position, the White House announced on June 16, that the President planned to issue an executive order covering government contractors and that it would cover approximately 14 million workers. A columnist in \"Forbes\" wrote in response to the announcement that \"Discrimination is a nuanced issue, tough to completely clobber with one order from above. But banning it is smart business–and Obama’s leadership on this specific issue is certainly a step in the right direction.\"\n\nSome religious groups asked the President to add exemptions for religious groups that function as federal contractors and object to employing LGBT persons, while others opposed such exemptions, viewing them as \"a cover for overt discrimination\". On June 25, 160 leaders of churches, religious institutions, and organizations sent a letter to President Obama asking him to exempt them from the requirements of the anticipated executive order. Without \"a variety of views on the merits of such an executive order\", they suggested language to be included in the order to allow them to maintain \"staffing practices consistent with their deep religious convictions as they partner with the federal government via contracting or subcontracting\", specifically allow them \"religiously grounded employee belief and conduct requirements\" as allowed in other contexts under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Signers included Leith Anderson, President, National Association of Evangelicals; Nathan Diament, Executive Director for Public Policy, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America; Stephan Bauman, President/CEO, World Relief; John Ashmen, President, Association of Gospel Rescue Missions; and Rev. Glenn M. Coleman, Presbyterian Church USA. A similar group of 14, including some of his political supporters, wrote the President, on July 1. They reminded him that his earlier opposition to same-sex marriage was based on his religious beliefs and asked him to \"find a way to respect diversity of opinion ... in a way that respects the dignity of all parties\". Signers included Rev. Larry Snyders of Catholic Charities USA and Dr. Rick Warren of Saddleback Church. U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch, one of the few national political figures to comment in advance of the order's release, also called for the President to include the comprehensive exemption for religious groups included in the version of ENDA that the Senate passed in November 2013. Just as the date for the release of the executive order approached, and religious exemption issue attracted increasing attention and on July 8 many LGBT advocacy groups withdrew their support for ENDA because of the religious exemptions included in the Senate version of the legislation.\n\nOn July 15, a group of 69 civil rights organizations and religious groups urged the President to take a different course by not only providing no exemption for religious groups and also rescinding the exemptions for religious groups put in place by President George W. Bush in his Executive Order 13279 in 2002. It said:\n\nOrganizations signing the letter included the American Jewish Committee, B'nai B'rith International, Catholics for Choice, the Hindu American Foundation, Human Rights Campaign, the Methodist Federation for Social Action, the NAACP, the National Education Association, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the National Organization for Women, People For the American Way, and the Unitarian Universalist Association.\n\nWhen signing this order, Obama said \"America's federal contracts should not subsidize discrimination against the American people\". He called for Congressional action to extend similar protections to all workers, noting that more states recognize same-sex marriage than prohibit discrimination in hiring on the basis of sexual orientation. By amending earlier executive orders, Obama did not create the extensive exemptions some religious groups were demanding, but left in place a narrower exemption established with respect to federal contractors in 2002 by President Bush's Executive Order 13279. That order protected the right of religious organizations engaged in social service activities to \"the employment of individuals of a particular religion\". It allows religious organizations, even when financed by federal contracts, to use religious belief as the basis for hiring and employment decisions.\n\nThe White House signing ceremony was attended by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, Tico Almeida, president of Freedom to Work, Rabbi David Saperstein of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, Chad Griffin of the Human Rights Campaign, Winnie Stachelberg of the Center for American Progress, and U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin Jeff Merkley, the leading proponents of ENDA in the Senate.\n\nIn response, Roman Catholic officials expressed contrasting views. The chairs of two committees of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops said in a joint statement:\n\nThey objected in particular to the order's inclusion of gender identity, which they said \"is predicated on the false idea that 'gender' is nothing more than a social construct or psychological reality that can be chosen at variance from one's biological sex.\" They said its implementation would:\n\nFather Larry Snyder, president of Catholic Charities USA, said that the executive order \"upholds already existing religious exemptions that will allow us to maintain fidelity to our deeply held religious beliefs.\" He issued a statement that said:\n\nMichael Galligan-Stierle, president of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (ACCU) issued a statement that said his organization:\n\nDouglas Laycock, a professor of law and religious studies at the University of Virginia, noted that the order maintained pre-existing protections for religious organizations:\n\nJenny Yang, vice president of advocacy and policy for World Relief, which works under federal \"grants\" rather than \"contracts\", said she was pleased that the order was limited, but worried that it might be extended in the future:\n\nCommenting on behalf of the Family Research Council (FRC), Peter Sprigg called the order and example of \"rule by decree\" and said:\n\nFRC President Tony Perkins echoed Spriggs' language but emphasized the issue of gender identity. He wrote that the executive order required:\n\nRobert Jeffress, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, told Todd Starnes of Fox News that:\n\nStarnes concluded a column that discussed the executive order with \"The Obama administration seems hell-bent on forcing Christians to assimilate to the militant LGBT agenda. Resistance is futile.\"\n\nAndrea Lafferty of the Traditional Values Coalition wrote to supporters that Obama:\n\nFew Republican members of Congress commented on the President's action. House Speaker John Boehner, when asked if he had a reaction, said: \"Nope. The president signs a lot of executive orders.\" Questioned again, he said: \"Listen, the president is going to make his decisions. He can.\"\n\nA spokesman for Exxon Mobil, a large-scale government contractor that has long refused to add sexual orientation and gender identity protection to its corporate personnel policies, announced on July 22 that it planned to comply with the executive order. Dell Inc. issued a statement supporting the president's action.\n\nOn December 3, 2014, the Department of Labor announced the text of its rule for enforcing this executive order, which takes effect 120 days following its publication in the \"Federal Register\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "490060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490060", "title": "Flast v. Cohen", "text": "Flast v. Cohen\n\nFlast v. Cohen, 392 U.S. 83 (1968), was a United States Supreme Court case holding that a taxpayer has standing to sue the government to prevent an unconstitutional use of taxpayer funds.\n\nThe Supreme Court decided in \"Frothingham v. Mellon\" (1923), that a taxpayer did not have standing to sue the federal government to prevent expenditures if his only injury is an anticipated increase in taxes. \"Frothingham v. Mellon\" did not recognize a constitutional barrier against federal taxpayer lawsuits. Rather, it denied standing because the petitioner did not allege \"a breach by Congress of the specific constitutional limitations imposed upon an exercise of the taxing and spending power.\" Because the purpose of standing is to avoid burdening the court with situations in which there is no real controversy, standing is used to ensure that the parties in the suit are properly adversarial, \"not whether the issue itself is justiciable.\" \n\nIn 1968, Florance Flast joined several others in filing a lawsuit against Wilbur Cohen, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, contending that spending funds on religious schools violated the First Amendment's ban on the establishment of religion. The district court denied standing, and the Supreme Court heard the appeal.\n\nWriting for the majority, Chief Justice Earl Warren established a \"double nexus\" test which a taxpayer must satisfy in order to have standing. First, he must \"establish a logical link between [taxpayer] status and the type of legislative enactment attacked.\" Second, \"show that the challenged enactment exceeds specific constitutional limitations upon the exercise of the taxing and spending power and \"not\" simply that the enactment is generally beyond the powers delegated to Congress by Article I, Section 8.\" Only when both nexuses have been satisfied may the petitioner have standing to sue.\n\nThe Court developed a two-part test to determine whether the plaintiffs had standing to sue. First, because a taxpayer alleges injury only by virtue of his liability for taxes, the Court held that \"a taxpayer will be a proper party to allege the unconstitutionality only of exercises of congressional power under the taxing and spending clause of Art. I, § 8, of the Constitution.\" *479 Id., at 102, 88 S.Ct., at 1954. Second, the Court required the taxpayer to \"show that the challenged enactment exceeds specific constitutional limitations upon the exercise of the taxing and spending power and \"not\" simply that the enactment is generally beyond the powers delegated to Congress by Art. I, § 8.\" Id., at 102-103, 88 S.Ct., at 1954.\"\n\nThe Court ruled that petitioners had satisfied both nexuses and therefore had standing to sue as taxpayers. First, their Constitutional challenge concerned expenditures contained within a law passed pursuant to Congress's Article I, Section 8 power to spend for the general welfare. Second, the law at issue allocated funds to parochial schools and therefore violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The Court, however, expressed \"no view at all on the merits of appellants' claims in this case.\"\n\nJustice William O. Douglas advocated dealing with the seeming contradiction by overturning \"Frothingham\" completely.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2521686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2521686", "title": "Hague Service Convention", "text": "Hague Service Convention\n\nThe Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters, more commonly called the Hague Service Convention, is a multilateral treaty which was adopted in The Hague, The Netherlands, on 15 November 1965 by member states of the Hague Conference on Private International Law. It came into existence to give litigants a reliable and efficient means of serving the documents on parties living, operating or based in another country. The provisions of the convention apply to service of process in civil and commercial matters but not criminal matters. Also, Article 1 states that the Convention shall not apply if the address of the person to be served with the document is not known.\n\nFor states which are not party to the Hague Service Convention, diplomatic channels are generally used for the service of legal documents. It is generally effected by a letter rogatory, which is a formal request to issue a judicial order from a court in the state where proceedings are underway to a court in another state. This procedure generally requires transmission of the document to be served from the originating court to the foreign ministry in the state of origin. The foreign ministry in the state of origin forwards the request to the foreign ministry in the destination state. The foreign ministry then forwards the documents to the local court. The local court then makes an order to allow for the service. Once service is made, a certificate of service would then pass through the same channels in reverse. Under a somewhat more streamlined procedure, courts can sometimes forward service requests to the foreign ministry or the foreign court directly, cutting out one or more steps in the process.\n\nThe Hague Service Convention established a more simplified means for parties to effect service in other contracting states. Under the convention, each contracting state is required to designate a central authority to accept incoming requests for service. A judicial officer who is competent to serve process in the state of origin is permitted to send request for service directly to the central authority of the state where service is to be made. Upon receiving the request, the central authority in the receiving state arranges for service in a manner permitted within the receiving state, typically through a local court. Once service is effected, the central authority sends a certificate of service to the judicial officer who made the request. Parties are required to use three standardized forms: a request for service, a summary of the proceedings (similar to a summons), and a certificate of service.\n\nThe main benefits of the Hague Service Convention over letters rogatory is that it is faster (requests generally take two to four months rather than six months to one year), it uses standardized forms which should be recognized by authorities in other states, and it is cheaper (in most cases) because service can be effected by a local attorney without hiring a foreign attorney to advise on foreign service procedures.\n\nThe Hague Service Convention does not prohibit a receiving state from permitting international service by methods otherwise authorized by domestic law. For example, a state could allow for service directly by mail or by personal service. States which permit parties to use these alternative means of service make a separate designation in the documents they file upon ratifying or acceding to the Convention.\n\nThe Hague Convention provides various modes of process service of documents such as by postal channel or by diplomatic/consular agents, judicial officers, officials or other competent persons. These provisions are covered under Articles 8 to 10 and may or not be allowed by member countries as a valid mode of serving the documents in their territory. The method of serving the documents through the Central Agency (Article 5) is not optional but is binding on all the member countries. The services done by the Central Agency usually takes a long time: 4 to 12 months. The convention gives relief to the litigants if they have not received certificate of service or delivery from the Central Agency even after waiting for six months. In such cases, the Court may, if it considers that a reasonable time has elapsed, give its judgement. Also, in case of urgency, the court may issue a provisional order or protective measure even before six-month waiting period. \nAlthough the service is free, it may take 4 to 12 months for the Central Authority to process. The Central Authority decides which method is to be used. In many cases, a bailiff will be assigned by a local court to serve the documents and mail back the proof of service, but service by mail is also possible.\n\nService by mail is possible only in states that have not objected to that method under Article 10(a) of the convention and if the jurisdiction where the court case takes place allows it under its applicable law. It is therefore possible in France and the Netherlands but not in Germany, Switzerland, and South Korea, where incoming service to be effected exclusively through the state's central authority.\n\nIn the United States, the interpretation of a provision in Article 10(a) has long been controversial, as the judiciary in some of its jurisdictions contended that service by mail was impossible because the word \"send\" rather than \"serve\" was used in the English-language version of the convention. The matter was finally resolved in May 2017 by the US Supreme Court in \"Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon\", bringing the interpretation in line with parties in other US jurisdictions and the rest of the world.\n\nUnder the convention, states may conclude different agreements between them that take precedence over the convention. Thus, in the European Union (except for Denmark) other rules are applied instead of the Convention.\n\n, 73 states are contracting parties of the Hague Service Convention. They include 61 of the 82 Hague Conference on Private International Law member states in addition to 12 other states.\n\n"}
{"id": "123451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=123451", "title": "Homicide", "text": "Homicide\n\nHomicide is the act of one human killing another. A homicide requires only a volitional act by another person that results in death, and thus a homicide may result from accidental, reckless, or negligent acts even if there is no intent to cause harm. Homicides can be divided into many overlapping legal categories, including murder, manslaughter, justifiable homicide, killing in war (either following the laws of war or as a war crime), euthanasia, and capital punishment, depending on the circumstances of the death. These different types of homicides are often treated very differently in human societies; some are considered crimes, while others are permitted or even ordered by the legal system.\n\nCriminal homicide takes many forms including accidental killing or purposeful murder. Criminal homicide is divided into two broad categories, murder and manslaughter, based upon the state of mind and intent of the person who commits the homicide.\n\nMurder is the most serious crime that can be charged following a homicide. In many jurisdictions, homicide may be punished by life in prison or even capital punishment. Although categories of murder can vary by jurisdiction, murder charges fall under two broad categories:\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a homicide that occurs during the commission of a dangerous crime may constitute murder, regardless of the actor's intent to commit homicide. In the United States, this is known as the felony murder rule. In simple terms, under the felony murder rule a person who commits a felony may be guilty of murder if someone dies as a result of the commission of the crime, including the victim of the felony, a bystander or a co-felon, regardless their intent—or lack thereof—to kill, and even when the death results from the actions of a co-defendant or third party who is reacting to the crime.\n\nManslaughter is a form of homicide in which the person who commits the homicide either does not intend to kill the victim, or kills the victim as the result of circumstances that would cause a reasonable person to become emotionally or mentally disturbed to the point of potentially losing control of their actions. The distinction between murder and manslaughter is sometimes said to have first been made by the ancient Athenian lawmaker Draco in the 7th century BC. The penalty for manslaughter is normally less than the penalty for murder. The two broad categories of manslaughter are:\n\nAnother form of manslaughter in some jurisdictions is constructive manslaughter, which may be charged in the event that a person causes a death without intention, but as the result of violating an important safety law or regulation.\n\nNot all homicides are crimes, or subject to criminal prosecution. Some are legally privileged, meaning that they are not criminal acts at all. Others may occur under circumstances that provide the defendant with a full or partial defense to criminal prosecution. Common defenses include:\n\nif the defendant in a capital case is sufficiently mentally disabled in the United States they cannot be executed. Instead, the individual is placed under the category of \"insane\".\n\nThe availability of defenses to a criminal charge following a homicide may affect the homicide rate. For example, it has been suggested that the availability of \"stand your ground\" defense has resulted in an increase in the homicide rate in U.S. jurisdictions that recognize the defense, including Florida.\n\nKilling by governments and the agents thereof may be considered lawful or unlawful according to:\n\nTypes of state killings include:\n\nScholars study especially large homicide events (typically 50,000 deaths in five years or less) as mass killings. Some medium- and large-scale mass killings by state actors have been term massacres, though not all such killings have been so named. The term \"democide\" has been coined by Rudolph Rummel to describe \"murder by government\" in general, which includes both extrajudicial killings and widespread systematic homicide.\n\nKilling by government might be called \"murder\" or \"mass murder\" in general usage, especially if seen by the commentator as unethical, but the domestic legal definitions of murder, manslaughter, etc., usually exclude killings carried out by lawful government action.\n\nDeliberate massacres of captives or civilians during wartime or periods of civil unrest by the state's military forces, include those committed by Genghis Khan, the Golden Horde, the troops of Vlad the Impaler, the Empire of Japan, the Soviet Union, and Nazi Germany during the Second Sino-Japanese War and World War II, the Nanjing Massacre, the Katyn Forest Massacre of Polish citizens in 1940 and the massacres of political prisoners after the launch of Operation Barbarossa, the Three Alls Policy, the massacre of Soviet Jews at Babi Yar, the mass murder of the Hungarian, Serbian and German population in Vojvodina in the \"Vengeance of Bacska\", the murder of 24 unarmed villagers by British troops in the Batang Kali massacre during the Malayan Emergency, the mass killings in Indonesia during Suharto's rise to power, the murder of suspected leftists during Operation \"Condor\" in South America, the murder of Vietnamese civilians by American soldiers in the My Lai Massacre during the Vietnam War, the genocidal massacres of the Maya population during the Guatemalan Civil War, the massacre at El Mozote during the Salvadoran Civil War, and repeated attacks on civilians during the Syrian Civil War including the Al-Qubeir massacre.\n\nActions in which the state indirectly caused the death of large numbers of people include man-made disasters caused by the state, such as the famines in India during British rule, the Holodomor famine in the Soviet Union, the Khmer Rouge years in Cambodia, the famines and poverty caused by the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution in the People's Republic of China, and the famine in Yemen triggered by the U.S.–backed Saudi Arabian-led intervention and blockade.\n\nA 2011 study by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime brought together a wide variety of data sources to create a worldwide picture of trends and developments. Sources included multiple agencies and field offices of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and national and international sources from 207 countries.\n\nThe report estimated that in 2010, the total number of homicides globally was 468,000. More than a third (36%) occurred in Africa, 31 percent in the Americas, 27 percent in Asia, five percent in Europe and one percent in Oceania. Since 1995, the homicide rate has been falling in Europe, North America, and Asia, but has risen to a near “crisis point” in Central America and the Caribbean. Of all homicides worldwide, 82 percent of the victims were men, and 18 percent were women. On a per-capita scaled level, \"the homicide rate in Africa and the Americas (at 17 and 16 per 100,000 population, respectively) is more than double the global average (6.9 per 100,000), whereas in Asia, Europe and Oceania (between 3 and 4 per 100,000) it is roughly half\".\n\nUNODC, in its 2013 global report, estimated the total number of homicides worldwide dropped to 437,000 in 2012. Americas accounted for 36 percent of all homicides globally, Africa 21 percent, Asia 38 percent, Europe five percent and Oceania 0.3%. The world's average homicide rate stood at 6.2 per 100,000 population in 2012, but Southern Africa region and Central America have intentional homicide rates four times higher than the world average. They are the most violent regions globally, outside of regions experiencing wars and religious or sociopolitical terrorism. Asia exclusive of West Asia and Central Asia, Western Europe, Northern Europe, as well as Oceania had the lowest homicide rates in the world. About 41 percent of the homicides worldwide occurred in 2012 with the use of guns, 24 percent with sharp objects such as knife, and 35 percent by other means such as poison. The global conviction rate for the crime of intentional homicide in 2012 was 43 percent.\n\n"}
{"id": "49220175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49220175", "title": "Jharlangi", "text": "Jharlangi\n\nJharlangi was a practice of obligatory labour provided by the peasants in feudal Sikkim to the officials, state visitors. Jharlangi was a forced labour imposed by the Kazis and Thikadars of erstwhile Sikkim to the Sikkimese peasantry.\n"}
{"id": "42329421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42329421", "title": "Jonathan Mayer", "text": "Jonathan Mayer\n\nJonathan Mayer (born February 5, 1987) is an American computer scientist and lawyer. He is an Associate Professor of Computer Science and Public Affairs at Princeton University and was previously a PhD student in computer science at Stanford University and a fellow at the Center for Internet and Society and the Center for International Security and Cooperation. During his graduate studies he was a consultant at the California Department of Justice.\n\nMayer's research focuses on technology policy, especially concerning computer security and privacy. He was selected as one of \"Forbes\" 30 Under 30 in 2014 for his contributions to those areas.\n\nMayer is a Chicago, Illinois, United States, native and attended the Latin School of Chicago. He received his AB from Princeton University in 2009 through the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. During his undergraduate studies he was a member of the team competing in the 2007 DARPA Grand Challenge and Intelligent Ground Vehicle Competition.\n\nMayer began his graduate work at Stanford University in 2009, where he was its first student to pursue both a PhD through the computer science department and a JD at Stanford Law School. Mayer received his JD in 2013.\n\nMayer's research when at Princeton studied the feasibility of tracking web browsers with partial identifiers like display resolution and extensions. His advisor was Professor Edward William Felten. Mayer's research found that it was possible to fingerprint web browsers. The Electronic Frontier Foundation's subsequent study reached the same conclusions using a bigger data set. There are businesses now using browser fingerprints in products.\n\nIn mid-2010, Mayer and another Stanford researcher Arvind Narayanan argued for Do Not Track in HTTP headers. They built Do Not Track prototypes for clients and servers. Working with Mozilla, they wrote the influential Internet Engineering Task Force Internet Draft of Do Not Track.\n\nUltimately the World Wide Web Consortium has begun standardizing Do Not Track through the Tracking Protection Working Group. Mayer was an active and influential participant in this group and has been described as \"key spokesperson\" who had a \"more interesting and productive career as a student than most tenured faculty\".\n\nMayer's thoughts about Do Not Track have concerned online advertising businesses. Randall Rothenberg, CEO of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, called him a \"Bolshevik of the Internet world\" and \"anathema to anybody who's trying to earn any kind of living using the digital supply chain.\" At one point, the Senior Director of IAB tried to get Mayer kicked out of his studies at Stanford .\n\nOn July 30, 2013 Mayer resigned from his job with the W3C working group. His resignation letter faulted advertising members for impeding progress and W3C for bad leadership. Some working group members later tried to bring him back as a leader but this did not happen.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2012 Mayer posted on illegal web tracking businesses. His contributions include the following.\n\nThe California Online Privacy Protection Act requires websites to post privacy policies. Attorney General Kamala Harris argued that this law applies to mobile applications as well. Mayer was a consultant for implementing that law on mobile applications. That initiative produced a large settlement with all mobile platforms on February 22, 2012.\n\nIn December 2012, Mayer proposed that Mozilla Firefox use the same cookie blocking mechanism as Apple Safari. He wrote the code patch as a community contributor and Mozilla adopted it. Representatives from the online advertising business have objected and criticize both Mayer and Mozilla. Businesses also had Congress members write letters to Mozilla. It was expressing false concerns about abducted children and natural disasters. Mozilla has since changed from Safari's cookie blocking mechanism, instead joining up with Cookie Clearinghouse's privacy initiative. Mayer has said that he is disappointed in Mozilla's decision but remains involved on the advisory board for Cookie Clearinghouse.\n\nAfter Edward Snowden leaked documents in 2013, Mayer has researched National Security Agency laws.\n\nOne of Mayer's projects has focused on Internet surveillance with FISA Amendments Act. Mayer concludes that NSA's \"one-end foreign\" rules allow them to spy on American citizens. His conclusions are part of the Director of National Intelligence Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies reporting.\nAnother of Mayer's projects has looked at telephone metadata in conjunction with the Patriot Act. Working with another Stanford researcher, Patrick Mutchler, Mayer concludes that metadata is very sensitive.\n\n"}
{"id": "48703045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48703045", "title": "Justice Quarterly", "text": "Justice Quarterly\n\nJustice Quarterly is a quarterly academic journal covering criminology and criminal justice. It was established in 1982 and is published by Routledge on behalf of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences, of which it is an official journal. The editor-in-chief is Megan C. Kurlychek (University at Albany). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 3.072.\n"}
{"id": "3597409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3597409", "title": "Kirkbi AG v Ritvik Holdings Inc", "text": "Kirkbi AG v Ritvik Holdings Inc\n\nKirkbi AG v. Ritvik Holdings Inc., popularly known as the Lego Case, is a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. The Court upheld the constitutionality of section 7(b) of the \"Trade-marks Act\" which prohibits the use of confusing marks, as well, on a second issue it was held that the doctrine of functionality applied to unregistered trade-marks.\n\nWhile s. 91 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" gives the Parliament of Canada jurisdiction over copyright and patent matters, it is silent with respect to trademarks. However, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council and the Supreme Court of Canada have both suggested in their jurisprudence that the \"Trade-marks Act\" is a valid exercise of the federal trade and commerce power.\n\nKirkbi AG, a member of The Lego Group, previously held patents in the design and form of Lego blocks, which had expired in Canada and elsewhere. Ritvik produced the pieces known as Mega Bloks. Kirkbi attempted to register the design of their blocks as a trade-mark but was denied by the Registrar of Trade-marks. Kirkbi then asserted unregistered trade-mark rights against Ritvik through an unregistered trade-mark in the distinctive orthogonal pattern of raised studs distributed on the top of each toy-building brick, and claimed relief under s. 7(b) of the Act, as well as under the common law doctrine of passing off.\n\nRitvik denied any breach under the Act or at common law and counterclaimed, seeking a declaration that it was entitled to continue to make, offer for sale and sell in Canada its blocks and related parts.\n\nGibson J. dismissed Kirkbi's claim of based on trade-mark, finding that:\n\n\nKirkbi's appeal was dismissed. Writing for the majority, Sexton JA did not comment on the questions of confusion and the elements of the tort of passing off, but did find that the doctrine of functionality applied to trade-marks, whether registered or not.\n\nIn dissent, Pelletier JA, held:\n\nIn a unanimous judgment, the appeal was dismissed. In his reasons, LeBel J held that:\n\nIt was not until the case was at the Supreme Court that Ritvik challenged the constitutionality of s. 7(b) of the Trade-marks Act. LeBel J stated that it was constitutional, saying:\n\nCiting jurisprudence dating back to 1964, LeBel noted:\n\nThe Court noted that the \"Trade-marks Act\" specifically excluded protection from \"utilitarian features of a distinguishing guise\". It recognized that allowing the claim created a concern with \"overextending monopoly rights on the\nproducts themselves and impeding competition, in respect of wares sharing the same technical characteristics.\" The Court agreed with the Federal Court of Appeal ruling, which found no difference between the legal attributes held by registered and unregistered marks. It looked to the text and the legislative history of the act to determine that there was no intention to give unregistered marks more protection than registered marks.\n\nThough the Court disposed of the case in ruling there was no cause of action under trade-mark law, it nonetheless considered the common law tort of passing off. It found that three elements were required to establish the tort:\n\nIn this case, K’s claim was bound to fail because it would not have met the first condition of the action. The alleged distinctiveness of the product consisted precisely of the process and techniques which were now common to the trade.\n\nWhile deception had been proven, the SCC noted that the trial judge had interpreted it too narrowly. Misrepresentation may be wilful and may thus mean the same thing as deceit. But now the doctrine of passing off also covers negligent or careless misrepresentation by the trader. As there was no discussion in the present case as to the question of damages, no comment was made.\n\n\"Kirkbi\", together with \"General Motors of Canada Ltd. v. City National Leasing\", are leading cases on the scope of Parliament’s trade and commerce power, particularly with respect to the general branch of that power. It reflects the current view of the Court that favours interprovincial economic integration, especially with the respect to the views expressed by Peter Hogg and Warren Grover:\n\nOn the more specific questions of intellectual property law, \"Kirkbi\" can also be seen as encouraging manufacturers of products embodying functional modular designs to employ appropriately clever branding and marketing, so that such designs may be seen as a source of distinctiveness, and thus deserving of trademark protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46734895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46734895", "title": "Mason v Lewis", "text": "Mason v Lewis\n\nMason v Lewis is a Court of Appeal decision that held that the test for determining what reckless trading under section 135 of the Companies Act 1993 is an objective one. The decision also clarified that s 135 is concerned not with deterring mere risk but with prohibiting \"substantial risk of serious loss\".\n\nMr and Mrs Lewis were directors of their own printing business, set up in 1984, who invested in and became directors of a company called Global Print in 1999. Global Print was the idea of Mr Grant, who became its manager. In February 2000 Global Print lost its main contract, although the Lewises did not learn of this until April 2000. Until this point there were four other directors, three former colleagues of Mr Grant and his wife, Mrs Grant, but on 20 April 2000 the three former colleagues resigned as directors. The financial position of the company gradually worsened and in September 2001 Mrs Lewis resigned as a director. In February 2002 Global Print was placed into liquidation and a complaint was made to the Serious Fraud Office about Mr Grant, which resulted in him being convicted of five charges of fraud for arranging false invoices to Global Print which were factored to another company.\n\nThe liquidators went to the High Court alleging breaches by the Lewises of their duties under ss 135 and 300 of the Companies Act 1993. Section 135 states,\nA director of a company must not—\n(a) agree to the business of the company being carried on in a manner likely to create a substantial risk of serious loss to the company's creditors; or\n(b) cause or allow the business of the company to be carried on in a manner likely to create a substantial risk of serious loss to the company's creditors.\nSection 300 allows for the personal liability of directors if proper accounting records have not been kept.\n\nIn the High Court Justice Salmon held, \"that there must be a conscious decision to allow the business to be conducted in a way that creates a substantial risk of serious loss to the company's creditors or a wilful or grossly negligent turning of a blind eye to the particular situation; in other words, some element of subjectivity.\"\n\nThe liquidators appealed.\n\nJustice Hammond delivered the decision of the Court and overturned Justice Salmon's decision that in determining whether or not a breach of s 135 of the Companies Act had occurred a court should consider the director's subjective intentions.\n\nIn applying this test the Court observed, \"In our view, any reasonable and prudent director would have known by July 2000, or at the very latest by mid-August 2000, that the company was in deep trouble, that even radical surgery might not save it, and that the cessation of trading had to be contemplated. [...] This is a paradigm case of reckless trading under s 135 of the Companies Act.\"\n\nThe Court then stated, \"Directors must take reasonable steps to put themselves in a position not only to guide but to monitor the management of a company. The days of sleeping directors with merely an investment interest are long gone: the limitation of liability given by incorporation is conditional on proper compliance with the statute.\"\n"}
{"id": "56177283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56177283", "title": "Melbourne Beth Din", "text": "Melbourne Beth Din\n\nThe Melbourne Beth Din (MBD) is an Orthodox Jewish court in the city of Melbourne, Australia. It rules mostly on divorces and conversions although it has ruled on other matters at various times. While they like to claim a monopoly over their services in Victoria, a number of alternatives do exist.\n\nThe MBD has existed in various iterations. The first Beth Din was set up with the assistance of Moses Rintel, who later served as the head of the Beth Din. This was the first Beth Din in the British Empire outside of London.\n\nThere were a series of Melbourne rabbis who served on the Beth Din, including:\nFrom the 1960s the Beth Din had a series of long standing heads, beginning with Isaac Rapaport and Sholem Gutnick.\n\nSholom Gutnick was a particularly controversial person, and the Beth Din under his leadership was dissolved and closed for a few years following a forced retirement that was triggered by allegations of nepotism and serious irregularities including financial problems in what was described as a one-man show. Gutnick would appoint and fire judges at will without consulting the other rabbis in the community, and despite the protests of the communal rabbinate, they did nothing to remove him from this self-appointed role. As a result of this poor management the standing of the MBD was lowered and the Sydney Beth Din became the default for most communities around Australia.\n\nFollowing the tenure of Sholom Gutnick, the Beth Din was closed down and restructured under the joint control of the Rabbinical Council of Victoria (RCV) and the Council of Orthodox Synagogue of Victoria (COSV), and Gutnick's nephew, Mordechai Gutnick was given the role of senior judge.\n\nIn 2017 the MBD conducted a wide-ranging review of its procedures that included rabbis currently sitting on the Beth Din, other communal rabbis, and lay people.\n\nThere has been criticism of the selection of judges, because they are universally from the ultra-Orthodox Chabad sect.\n\nOne of the roles of the MBD is to oversee Orthodox conversions to Judaism. This process is often mired in controversy, with London at times overruling the decisions of the Australian Beth Din, and the topic causing tension between Joseph Abrahams and his community, forcing the rabbi to briefly resign his post. This difficulty in conversion in the early days of the settlement of Australia led to many Jews marrying non-Jews and assimilating into Australian culture. Today many of the conversions performed are done for marriage or due to Jewish ancestry.\n\nToday, the process of converting internationally is mired in controversy and politics especially in Israel. In this environment, the MBD is one of the few internationally recognised conversion programs. However, the program regularly takes several years, and requires extensive examinations before the Beth Din will consider a convert. However, in spite of this most Orthodox synagogues in Melbourne will direct conversion candidates to the MBD.\n\nSince the appointment of Mordechai Gutnick, the MBD still has significant procedural and cultural problems, a lack of transparency, an opaque appeals process that includes a loophole to avoid the appeals process if they so desired.\n\nIn recent years a number of conversion courts have been set up independently of the MBD. These have been run by rabbis Yaron Gottlieb, Meir Rabi, and the Ark Centre.\n\nThe conversions performed by the Ark Centre are particularly controversial since the MBD rejected all their conversions, and all their converts are therefore considered non-Jews by the MBD. This decision was a slap in the face of the well respected Rabbi Yisrael Rosen who oversaw the conversions from Israel, and in opposition to a direct Halacha, and the longstanding convention in Orthodoxy.\n\nThe other main focus of the MBD is in the area of divorces. In Jewish law a divorce can be vetoed by either side (but the consequences are more serious for the woman) there are a number of instances of both the man and the woman refusing to give the bill of divorce (gett). The MBD have a number of ways of dealing with this, including a pre-nuptial agreement, although this agreement in Australia is more of a guide and is not binding in any way on the two parties in the event of a divorce.\n\nThe MBD deal with about 40 divorces per annum, but it is the cases of agunah, or gett refusal that takes most of their time. In a landmark case, the Victorian Magistrates Court ruled that gett refusal constitutes psychological and emotional abuse, however there are limits on this and there is danger that any law to try and force one party to provide a gett could run foul of the Australian constitution.\n\nWhile the Beth Din have tried to ease the suffering, they are very conservative in their interpretation of Halacha, and their procedures can cause cases to extend a lot longer than necessary.\n\nThe MBD has made a number of rulings over the years. An earlier ruling was made by the Beth Din during the tenure of Rabbi Brodie against communally organised ball sports on Shabbat.\n\nMore recently the MBD has made strong statements against same sex marriage, and against the establishment of an eruv.\n\nThe Beth Din at times have attempted to establish a civil tribunal, but these attempts have thus far failed. Despite this the MBD have called for all Jews to approach them and have strongly discouraged people from going to the secular courts.\n\nThey are also attempting to create a register of who is a Jew for the purposes of marriage within the Orthodox community.\n\nThere are a number of religious courts that claim jurisdiction in Victoria besides the MBD. The Progressive movement and Conservative movement each maintain a Beth Din, as does the Haredi Adass Yisrael community.\n\nIn addition to these there are a number of ad hoc Orthodox conversion courts.\n"}
{"id": "57918348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57918348", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Papua New Guinea)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Papua New Guinea)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Papua New Guinea acts the principal advisor to the government and is responsible for all civil litigation matters by and against the state. The Minister of Justice (who serves simultaneously as the Attorney General) gives opinions on any questions relating to the interpretation or application of the laws of Papua New Guinea including the Constitution, Organic Laws, Acts of Parliament and all other sub ordinate legislation. The ministry oversees the following institutions: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39386052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39386052", "title": "Monsanto Technology LLC v Cefetra BV and Others", "text": "Monsanto Technology LLC v Cefetra BV and Others\n\nMonsanto Technology LLC v Cefetra BV and Others (2010) was a preliminary ruling by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) regarding the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. The case dealt with the interpretation of Article 9 of Directive 98/44/EC on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions, and it was the first ECJ interpretation of the 1998 directive.\n\nMonsanto holds a European patent, EP 0 546 090, for a variety of soybean containing genes inserted into the plants DNA. The inserted genes make the plant resistant to a particular type of herbicide known as Roundup. The resulting soybean plant is known as Roundup Ready (RR). The RR soybean plant remains unharmed by the application of herbicide while surrounding weeds die. The RR soybean plant is cultivated on a large scale in Argentina where there is no patent protection for the Monsanto invention at [18].\n\nIn July 2003 soy meal from Argentina was shipped to Amsterdam and the shipments were detained by customs. Monsanto tested the samples and determined that the soy meal originated from RR soybeans. Monsanto then applied for injunctions against the importers of the soy meal, Cefetra and Toepfer and the shipping company Vopak. The Dutch court then considered the issues under their local patent law and EU patent law. Acknowledging that Monsanto had established the presence of their patented genetic material in the soy meal, the court must decide if the presence alone of such genetic material is sufficient for infringement of Monsanto's patent at [25] and [26].\n\nThe courts analysis is primarily driven by the specific language regarding whether the genetic material is present, and if it performs its function therein. The court concludes that the genetic material present in the soy meal is dead material, and no longer performs its function. Therefore, in the courts interpretation Monsanto's patent is not infringed. Recognizing that there is profit being had by the soy producers in Argentina, without any reciprocal compensation to the patent holders, the court referred the following question to the ECJ:\n\n\nThe first question\n\nThe ECJ addressed the first question by stating, \"It follows from the foregoing that the protection provided for in Article 9 of the Directive is not available when the genetic information has ceased to perform the function it performed in the initial material from which the material in question is derived.\" at [38] at p. 540\n\nThe second question\n\nIn response to question two the ECJ states, \"Accordingly, in so far as the Directive does not accord protection to a patented DNA sequence which is not able to perform its function, the provision interpreted precludes the national legislature from granting absolute protection to a patented DNA sequence as such, regardless of whether it performs its function in the material containing it. The answer to the second question is therefore that Article 9 of the Directive effects an exhaustive harmonisation of the protection it confers, with the result that it precludes the national patent legislation from offering absolute protection to the patented product as such, regardless of whether it performs its function in the material containing it.\" at [62-63]\n\nThe third question\n\nThe ECJ responds to question three as follows, \"The answer to the third question is therefore that Article 9 of the Directive precludes the holder of a patent issued prior to the adoption of that directive from relying on the absolute protection for the patented product accorded to it under the national legislation then applicable.\" at [69]\n\nThe fourth question\n\nIn response to question four the ECJ states, \"The answer to the fourth question is therefore that Articles 27 and 30 of the TRIPS Agreement do not affect the interpretation given of Article 9 of the Directive.\" at [77]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47390203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47390203", "title": "Netzpolitik.org", "text": "Netzpolitik.org\n\nnetzpolitik.org is a German language blog on digital rights and digital culture. Among other topics, it covers mass surveillance, open source software, data protection and privacy and net neutrality. The blog was founded in 2002 by Markus Beckedahl, who still leads the project today, supported by more than 30 other contributors.\n\nIn Spring 2015, netzpolitik.org leaked internal government documents which detailed the proposed surveillance expansion of social networks by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, an intelligence agency, by producing two articles, first in February 2015 and then in April 2015.\n\nOn July 31, 2015, netzpolitik.org announced:Today, we received a letter from the Federal Attorney General of Germany confirming ongoing investigations against our reporters Markus Beckedahl, Andre Meister and an “unknown” source, suspecting us of treason according to the German Penal Code.Up until that point, they were known to have been witnesses in the case, but this letter confirmed that they would be investigated as \"joint principals\".\n\nThe last time such charges were brought against a journalist in Germany was in 1962 amid much uproar, when the editor-in-chief of Der Spiegel was accused of treason for publishing secret documents about the German defense forces, and spent 103 days in prison (see Spiegel scandal).\n\nIn the aftermath of the treason investigation, Federal Minister of Justice Heiko Maas forced Public Prosecutor General Harald Range into retirement for breach of public trust on 4 August 2015.\n\nThe bloggers describe themselves as a platform for digital freedoms, specifically fighting against mass surveillance. netzpolitik.org is extensively reporting on the ongoing intelligence scandals, consequently live-covering the German parliamentary investigation committee on NSA surveillance. Besides this live-blogging, there is a broad evaluation and commenting on the insights won in the committee. The bloggers have vigorously criticized surveillance laws and practices for many years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3908946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908946", "title": "Night Poaching Act 1828", "text": "Night Poaching Act 1828\n\nThe Night Poaching Act 1828 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (citation 9 Geo. IV c. 69) still in effect in the 21st century. It forbids night poaching, especially \"taking or destroying game on lands, etc., by night, or entering lands at night to take or destroy game.\nFor the purposes of this Act the word “game” shall be deemed to include hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, heath or moor game, black game, and bustards.\n\nThe Act — in particular, its original provisions for transportation to colonies such as Tasmania — made headlines in 2007, when two rabbit poachers were convicted and fined under it before magistrates at Hereford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41892096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41892096", "title": "Paul Henderson (photojournalist)", "text": "Paul Henderson (photojournalist)\n\nPaul Samuel Henderson (October 10, 1899 – May 24, 1988) was an African-American photojournalist for the \"Baltimore Afro-American\" newspaper from 1929 through circa 1960. He became well known for taking pictures of large groups and distant objects atop a ladder he carried. Henderson primarily photographed people, including church groups, politicians, graduations, local college and university groups, weddings, events during the Civil Rights Movement, and more. He was a member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, a vestryman at St. James Church, charter member of the Druid Hill Avenue Neighborhood Club, assistant treasurer of a local Frontiers International club, and supported The Salvation Army.\n\nPaul Samuel Henderson was born on October 10, 1899 in Springfield, Tennessee and was the youngest of four children born to Ike A. and Annie L. Henderson. At age 18 he registered for the World War I draft on September 12, 1918 while working as a bricklayer for a steel company in Gary, Indiana. In 1920 his profession changed to driver for a laundry in Gary. At some point during his residence in Gary, he attended the School for Professional Photography.\n\nAfter leaving Indiana, Henderson worked for a newspaper in Roanoke, Virginia. Henderson moved to Baltimore in 1929 and became what the \"Baltimore Afro-American\" newspaper called their first photographer. Henderson used a large format view camera to produce glass negatives, and eight by ten inch and four by five inch acetate negatives.\n\nHenderson documented racial segregation and early civil rights protests as well as community members of the Baltimore City's African-American population. Henderson photographed National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Baltimore Branch president Lillie Mae Carroll Jackson, Baltimore City Mayor and Maryland State Governor Theodore McKeldin, Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall when he was a lawyer for the NAACP, journalist and publisher Carl Murphy, businesses and people along Pennsylvania Avenue, which was once a main artery for black culture and life in Baltimore and much more.\n\nHenderson bequeathed his photograph and object collection to the Peale Museum. When the Peale closed its doors in 1997, the collection was transferred to the Maryland Historical Society.\n\nIn 1930, Henderson married schoolteacher and “prominent society girl” Elizabeth Johnson. Mrs. Henderson was a graduate of Douglass High School and Coppin Normal School for Teachers (now Coppin State University) in Baltimore whose career flourished in the Baltimore City Public School system. Paul and Elizabeth Henderson had no children.\n\nIn 1966 Henderson became so gravely ill that on January 22, the Baltimore Afro-American printed a premature obituary for him. However, in the same issue, the newspaper asks readers for prayers for Henderson who had been in Hopkins Hospital for the past week. In April 1966, the newspaper’s Bettye M. Moss updates readers in her column about Henderson’s condition, stating that he is able to be “up and about” at the Bolton Hill Nursing Home at Lafayette Avenue and John Street in Baltimore. By June the Afro-American reports that Henderson is back at home at 1925 Druid Hill Avenue in Baltimore.\n\nHenderson died on Tuesday, May 24, 1988, at Union Memorial Hospital after a reported battle with an illness. Services were held at St. James Episcopal Church at Lafayette and Arlington avenues. He had outlived his wife Elizabeth, who died in 1982. His obituary stated that he was survived by his brother, Willard Henderson, who lived in Tampa, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "521241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521241", "title": "Persona non grata", "text": "Persona non grata\n\nIn diplomacy, a (Latin: \"person not appreciated\", plural: \"\") is a foreign person whose entering or remaining in a particular country is prohibited by that country's government. Being so named is the most serious form of censure which a country can apply to foreign diplomats, who are otherwise protected by diplomatic immunity from arrest and other normal kinds of prosecution.\n\nUnder Article 9 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, a receiving state may \"at any time and without having to explain its decision\" declare any member of a diplomatic staff \"\". A person so declared is considered unacceptable and is usually recalled to his or her home nation. If not recalled, the receiving state \"may refuse to recognize the person concerned as a member of the mission\".\n\nWith the protection of mission staff from prosecution for violating civil and criminal laws, depending on rank, under Articles 41 and 42 of the Vienna Convention, they are bound to respect national laws and regulations. Breaches of these articles can lead to a \"\" declaration being used to punish erring staff. It is also used to expel diplomats suspected of espionage (described as \"activities incompatible with diplomatic status\") or any overt criminal act such as drug trafficking. The declaration may also be a symbolic indication of displeasure.\n\nSo-called \"tit for tat\" exchanges have occurred (whereby ambassadors of countries involved in a dispute each expel the ambassador of the other country), notably during the Cold War. A notable occurrence outside of the Cold War was an exchange between the United States and Ecuador in 2011: the Ecuadorian government expelled the United States ambassador, as a result of diplomatic cables leaking (WikiLeaks), the United States responded by expelling the Ecuadorian ambassador. \n\nIn non-diplomatic usage, referring to someone as \" is to say that the person is ostracized. The person then is, for all intents and purposes, culturally shunned and is figuratively nonexistent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33533205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33533205", "title": "R v Hutt", "text": "R v Hutt\n\nR v Hutt, [1978] 2 S.C.R. 476 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision. The Court held that for the activities of a prostitute or a customer to be of a criminal nature the conduct must conform with the ordinary dictionary meaning—i.e. The Oxford English Dictionary—since the word \"solicit\" was not defined in the Criminal Code.\n\nThe Court ruled that there must be “importuning”, or “pressing or persistent” conduct which must constitute more than a “mere” indication that the prostitute was willing to engage in an act of prostitution. In this case, an undercover Vancouver Police officer had permitted Hutt to enter his unmarked standard passenger vehicle whereupon Hutt proceeded to identify herself as a prostitute and to discuss the sexual service she would supply as well as the price for the service. On cross examination the police officer agreed that one of his duties was to make it appear as if he wanted a girl for sex and that the reason he immediately returned Hutt’s smile while she was standing outside his automobile was to encourage her to solicit him for the purpose of prostitution.\n\nThe Court ruled that the conduct displayed in this case was certainly not within the scope of a criminal provision intended by Parliament to prohibit acts “which would contribute to public inconvenience.” Further four Judges of the Court also indicated that, had the issue been pursued, they would not have considered the automobile to be a “public place” within the definition contained in the Criminal Code, and therefore would have ruled that the conduct would not have been within section 195.1 on this ground either. Hutt was defended by Anthony P. Serka, a criminal lawyer based in Vancouver.\n"}
{"id": "52720080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52720080", "title": "Radio Equipment Directive", "text": "Radio Equipment Directive\n\nThe Radio Equipment Directive (RED, EU directive 2014/53/EU) deals with the placing on the market of radio-electric equipment. All product in scope of this directive and placed on the EU market must be compliant with this directive from 13 June 2017.\n\nThis directive has been published in 16 April 2014 and abrogated the directive R&TTE 1999/5/EC since 13 June 2016. Equipment compliant with the former directive only won't be authorised to be placed on the market from 12 June 2017.\n\nThe delay on the publication and approbation of standards linked to this directive entails difficulties for economic operators to comply with this directive\n\nHarmonized standard defines the methods to follow to presume the conformity of the equipment to the essential requirement of the directive.\n\nThe list of harmonized standard is regularly published on the official journal of the European Union. Each harmonized standard covers one or some essential requirements. More than one harmonized standard can be needed to obtain a presumption of conformity to all the essential requirements of RED.\n\nThe European Commission delegated the writing of standard to ETSI and Cenelec.\n\nFor example, a Wi-Fi equipment will refer to the following harmonized standards: \n\nDelegated acts of the European Commission will be legal document that will define the different classes and categories of equipment for which specific essential requirements defined in article 3 paragraph 3 will apply.\n\nResearchers of the TU Darmstadt claim that the German draft law disallows operation of flashed devices, even if they date from before introduction of the new directive.\n\nThe economic operators are facing to difficulties to comply with this new directive. The list of harmonized standard is still incomplete. For example, the harmonised standard for protocol Wi-Fi 5 GHz, for FM receiver, and all standards dealing with EMC and safety are missing.\n\nThe European Commission should propose a pragmatic solution. Nevertheless, the industry associations highlight that it will be impossible for product to comply with new standards overnight, Especially since new technical requirements may lead to design modification on some categories of product.\n\nThe Free Software Foundation Europe calls the directive the Radio Lockdown Directive. The FSFE claims that the directive will make it harder for small businesses to develop routers, since they will be tivoised and therefore GPLv3 incompatible.\n\nThe FSFE furthermore argues that the tivoisation will disable the Freifunk project,\n\n"}
{"id": "3231324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3231324", "title": "SMS spoofing", "text": "SMS spoofing\n\nSMS spoofing is a technology which uses the short message service (SMS), available on most mobile phones and personal digital assistants, to set who the message appears to come from by replacing the originating mobile number (Sender ID) with alphanumeric text. Spoofing has both legitimate uses (setting the company name from which the message is being sent, setting your own mobile number, or a product name) and illegitimate uses (such as impersonating another person, company, product). This can also send \"mysterious\" messages that look like they are from legitimate numbers or contacts.\n\nSMS Spoofing occurs when a sender manipulates address information. Often it is done in order to impersonate a user that has roamed onto a foreign network and is submitting messages to the home network. Frequently, these messages are addressed to destinations outside the home network – with the home SMSC essentially being “hijacked” to send messages into other networks. In advanced cases they can even hijack existing contacts in a phone.\n\nThe impact of this activity is threefold:\n\n\nThe legitimate use cases for SMS spoofing include:\n\n\nAn SMS Spoofing attack is often first detected by an increase in the number of SMS errors encountered during a bill-run. These errors are caused by the spoofed subscriber identities. Operators can respond by blocking different source addresses in their Gateway-MSCs, but fraudsters can change addresses easily to by-pass these measures. If fraudsters move to using source addresses at a major interconnect partner, it may become unfeasible to block these addresses, due to the potential impact on normal interconnect services.\n\nIn 2007, The UK premium rate regulator, PhonepayPlus (formerly ICSTIS) concluded a public consultation on anonymous SMS, in which they stated they were not averse to the operation of such services. However, in 2008 PhonePayPlus introduced new regulation covering anonymous SMS, requiring anonymous SMS service providers to send a follow-up message to the recipient stating that a spoofed SMS has been sent to them, and operate a complaints helpline.\n\nIt is illegal to send anonymous SMS messages in Australia. \n\nIf a user can prove that their SMS sessions have been spoofed, they should contact both law enforcement and their cellular provider, who should be able to track where the SMS messages were actually sent from. A user may also modify the phone's settings so that only messages from authorized numbers are allowed. This is not always effective since hackers could be impersonating the user's friends as well.\n"}
{"id": "3088796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088796", "title": "Schloendorff v. Society of New York Hospital", "text": "Schloendorff v. Society of New York Hospital\n\nSchloendorff v. Society of New York Hospital, 105 N.E. 92 (N.Y. 1914), was a decision issued by the New York Court of Appeals in 1914 which established principles of respondeat superior in United States law.\n\nIn January 1908, Mary Schloendorff, also known as Mary Gamble—an elocutionist from San Francisco—was admitted to New York Hospital to evaluate and treat a stomach disorder. Some weeks into her stay at the hospital, the house physician diagnosed a fibroid tumor. The visiting physician recommended surgery, which Schloendorff adamantly declined. She consented to an examination under ether anesthesia. During the procedure, the doctors performed surgery to remove the tumor. Afterwards, Schloendorff developed gangrene in the left arm, ultimately leading to the amputation of some fingers. Schloendorff blamed the surgery, and filed suit.\n\nThe Court found that the operation to which the plaintiff did not consent constituted medical battery. Justice Benjamin Cardozo wrote in the Court's opinion:\n\nSchloendorff, however, had sued the hospital itself, not the physicians. For this reason, the Court found that a non-profit hospital could not be held liable for the actions of its employees, analogizing to the principle of charitable immunity.\n\nThe idea that a non-profit hospital could not be sued for actions of its employees became a principle that became known as the \"Schloendorff rule.\" The Court would later reject the \"Schloendorff rule\" in the 1957 decision of \"Bing v. Thunig\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573930", "title": "Sedition Act of 1918", "text": "Sedition Act of 1918\n\nThe Sedition Act of 1918 () was an Act of the United States Congress that extended the Espionage Act of 1917 to cover a broader range of offenses, notably speech and the expression of opinion that cast the government or the war effort in a negative light or interfered with the sale of government bonds.\n\nIt forbade the use of \"disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language\" about the United States government, its flag, or its armed forces or that caused others to view the American government or its institutions with contempt. Those convicted under the act generally received sentences of imprisonment for five to 20 years. The act also allowed the Postmaster General to refuse to deliver mail that met those same standards for punishable speech or opinion. It applied only to times \"when the United States is in war.\" The U.S. was in a declared state of war at the time of passage, the First World War. The law was repealed on December 13, 1920.\n\nThough the legislation enacted in 1918 is commonly called the Sedition Act, it was actually a set of amendments to the Espionage Act.\nTherefore, many studies of the Espionage Act and the Sedition Act find it difficult to report on the two \"acts\" separately. For example, one historian reports that \"some fifteen hundred prosecutions were carried out under the Espionage and Sedition Acts, resulting in more than a thousand convictions.\" Court decisions do not use the shorthand term Sedition Act, but the correct legal term for the law, the Espionage Act, whether as originally enacted or as amended in 1918.\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 made it a crime to interfere with the war effort, disrupt military recruitment, or to attempt to aid a nation at war with the U.S. Wartime violence on the part of local groups of citizens, sometimes mobs or vigilantes, persuaded some lawmakers that the law was inadequate. In their view the country was witnessing instances of public disorder that represented the public's own attempt to punish unpopular speech in light of the government's inability to do so. Amendments to enhance the government's authority under the Espionage Act would prevent mobs from doing what the government could not.\n\nWhile much of the debate focused on the law's precise language, there was considerable opposition in the Senate, almost entirely from Republicans like Henry Cabot Lodge and Hiram Johnson, the former speaking in defense of free speech and the latter assailing the administration for failing to use the laws already in place. Former President Theodore Roosevelt voiced opposition as well. President Wilson and his Attorney General Thomas Watt Gregory viewed the bill as a political compromise. They hoped to avoid hearings that would embarrass the administration for its failure to prosecute offensive speech. They also feared other proposals that would have withdrawn prosecutorial authority from the Justice Department and placed it in the War Department, creating a sort of civilian court-martial process of questionable constitutionality. The final vote for passage was 48 to 26 in the Senate and 293 to 1 in the House of Representatives, with the sole dissenting vote in the House cast by Meyer London of New York.\n\nOfficials in the Justice Department who had little enthusiasm for the law nevertheless hoped that even without generating many prosecutions it would help quiet public calls for more government action against those thought to be insufficiently patriotic.\n\nMost U.S. newspapers \"showed no antipathy toward the act\" and \"far from opposing the measure, the leading papers seemed actually to lead the movement in behalf of its speedy enactment.\"\n\nThe legislation came so late in the war, just a few months before Armistice Day, that prosecutions under the provisions of the Sedition Act were few. One notable case was that of Mollie Steimer, convicted under the Espionage Act as amended by the Sedition Act. U.S. Attorneys at first had considerable discretion in using these laws, until Gregory, a few weeks before the end of the war, instructed them not to act without his approval. Enforcement varied greatly from one jurisdiction to the next, with most activity in the Western states where the Industrial Workers of the World labor union was prevalent. For example, Marie Equi was arrested for giving a speech at the IWW hall in Portland, Oregon, and was convicted after the war was over.\n\nIn April 1918, the government arrested industrialist William Edenborn, a naturalized citizen from Germany, at his railroad business in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was accused of speaking \"disloyally\" when he allegedly belittled the threat of Germany to the security of the United States.\n\nIn June 1918, the Socialist Party figure Eugene V. Debs of Indiana was arrested for violating the Sedition Act by undermining the government's conscription efforts. He was sentenced to ten years in prison. He served his sentence in the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary from April 13, 1919, until December 1921, when President Harding commuted Debs' sentence to time served, effective on December 25, Christmas Day. In March 1919, President Wilson, at the suggestion of Attorney General Thomas Watt Gregory, released or reduced the sentences of some two hundred prisoners convicted under the Espionage Act or the Sedition Act.\n\nWith the act rendered inoperative by the end of hostilities, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer waged a public campaign, not unrelated to his own campaign for the Democratic nomination for president, in favor of a peacetime version of the Sedition Act. He sent a circular outlining his rationale to newspaper editors in January 1919, citing the dangerous foreign-language press and radical attempts to create unrest in African American communities. He testified in favor of such a law in early June 1920. At one point Congress had more than 70 versions of proposed language and amendments for such a bill, but it took no action on the controversial proposal during the campaign year of 1920. After a court decision later in June cited Palmer's anti-radical campaign for its abuse of power, the conservative \"Christian Science Monitor\" found itself unable to support him any more, writing on June 25, 1920: \"What appeared to be an excess of radicalism...was certainly met with...an excess of suppression.\" The Alien Registration Act of 1940 was the first American peacetime sedition act.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Sedition Act in \"Abrams v. United States\" (1919), although Oliver Wendell Holmes used his dissenting opinion to make a commentary on what has come to be known as \"the marketplace of ideas\". Subsequent Supreme Court decisions, such as \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" (1969), make it unlikely that similar legislation would be considered constitutional today.\n\nAs part of a sweeping repeal of wartime laws, Congress repealed the Sedition Act on December 13, 1920.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2226738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2226738", "title": "Semi-formal wear", "text": "Semi-formal wear\n\nIn Western clothing semi-formal is a grouping of dress codes indicating the sort of clothes worn to events with a level of protocol between informal (e.g., lounge suit) and formal. In the modern era, an evening dress or cocktail dress is customary for women.\n\nWhether one would choose to wear morning or evening semi-formal has traditionally been defined by whether the event will commence before or after 6:00 p.m.\nIn addition, equivalent versions may be permitted of semi-formally applicable ceremonial dresses (including court dresses, diplomatic uniforms and academic dresses), full dress uniforms, religious clothing, and national costumes, and military mess dresses.\n\nIn the daytime (before 6 p.m.), the semi-formal code requires for men a black tail-less lounge coat with vertical black and grey stripes or checked formal trousers, with a black waistcoat. This combination is a less formal version of morning dress, which features a longer, cutaway morning coat. This semi-formal ensemble is sometimes referred to as a \"stroller\" in North America, or a Marlborough suit in the United Kingdom. Because black was then reserved for formalwear, it was unknown as a color for lounge suits, so the term was unambiguous. In the U.K. this mode of dress is now extremely unusual, though some Masonic Lodges which meet during the day rather than (as is more common) in the evening do continue to specify it as their dress code. It also still is worn within the legal profession, especially by barristers. Indeed, the striped trousers are in some circles referred to as \"barrister trousers\". In German, a stroller is called a \"Stresemann\", after the German foreign secretary Gustav Stresemann. Stresemann, like other German politicians of his age, wore morning dress or a frock coat in the Reichstag or when making public appearances. However, Stresemann found the long coat impractical for daily work in the Chancellery. To avoid having to change completely, he began to wear the prototype of this jacket at his office, while switching to a morning coat when engaged on more formal business. The style quickly caught on as a more practical variation on morning dress. In Japan, it is known as a \"director's suit\", from the term \"inside director\".\n\nFor evening wear (after 6 p.m.), the corresponding code is black tie. In formal evening dress, or white tie dress, this practice of substituting colors in ties is much less common since men's fashion tends to follow tradition more deeply as it becomes more formal.\n\nThe origins of evening semi-formal attire date back to the later 19th century when Edward, Prince of Wales (subsequently Edward VII), wanted a more comfortable dinner attire than the swallowtail coat.\n\nIn the spring of 1886, the Prince invited James Potter, a rich New Yorker, and his wife Cora to Sandringham House, the Prince's hunting estate in Norfolk. When Potter asked for the Prince's dinner dress code, the Prince sent him to his tailor, Henry Poole & Co., in London, where he was given a suit made to the Prince's specifications with the dinner jacket.\n\nOn returning to Tuxedo Park, New York, in 1886, Potter's dinner suit proved popular at the Tuxedo Park Club. Not long afterward, when a group of men from the club chose to wear such suits to a dinner at Delmonico's Restaurant in New York City, other diners were surprised. They were told that such clothing was popular at Tuxedo Park, so the particular cut then became known as the \"tuxedo\".\n\nFrom its creation into the 1920s, this dinner jacket was considered appropriate dress for dining in one's home or club, while the tailcoat remained in place as appropriate for public appearance.\n\nEtiquette and clothing experts continue to discourage wearing of black tie as too informal for weddings, or indeed any event before 6 p.m., such as by Emily Post (1872-1960) and Amy Vanderbilt (1908-1974). The latter arguing that \"no man should ever be caught in a church in a tuxedo.\"\n"}
{"id": "24068142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068142", "title": "Super statute", "text": "Super statute\n\nThe phrase super statute was applied in 2001 by Professors William Eskridge, Jr. and John Ferejohn to characterize an ordinary statute whose effort \"to establish a new normative or institutional framework ... 'stick[s]' in the public culture\" and has \"a broad effect on the law\". As a result, it has a \"quasi-constitutional\" significance that exceeds its formal status as a statute.\n\nAccording to Eskridge and Ferejohn, previous legal commentators had used the term \"super-statute\" for other purposes. Some writers have used the term to describe a constitution, e.g., A. E. Dick Howard, \"The Road from Runnymede: Magna Carta and the Constitutionalism in America\" (1968, pg.122) (stating that American lawyers in the eighteenth century viewed the Magna Carta and the common law it was thought to embody \"as a kind of superstatute, a constitution placing fundamental liberties beyond the reach of Parliament\"). Other writers believe it's simply a big statute with no force outside its four corners, e.g., Bruce A. Ackerman, \"Constitutional Politics/Constitutional Law\", 99 \"Yale Law Journal\" 453, 522 (1989) (\"Superstatutes do not seek to revise any of the deeper principles organizing our higher law; instead, they content themselves with changing one or more rules without challenging basic premises.\").\n"}
{"id": "3512226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3512226", "title": "Sustainability reporting", "text": "Sustainability reporting\n\nA sustainability report is an organizational report that gives information about economic, environmental, social and governance performance.\n\nSustainability reporting is not just report generation from collected data; instead it is a method to internalize and improve an organization’s commitment to sustainable development in a way that can be demonstrated to both internal and external stakeholders.\n\nCorporate \"sustainability reporting\" has a history going back to environmental reporting. The first environmental reports were published in the late 1980s by companies in the chemical industry which had serious image problems. The other group of early reporters was a group of committed small and medium-sized businesses with very advanced environmental management systems. Additionally, the tobacco industry adopted such reporting much earlier than the rest of the corporate world, in an attempt to attract new investors at a time when ethical investing was becoming increasingly popular.\n\nNon-financial reporting, such as sustainability and CSR reporting, is a fairly recent trend which has expanded over the last twenty years. Many companies now produce an annual sustainability report and there are a wide array of ratings and standards around. There are a variety of reasons that companies choose to produce these reports, but at their core they are intended to be \"vessels of transparency and accountability\". Often they also intended to improve internal processes, engage stakeholders and persuade investors.\n\nOrganizations can improve their sustainability performance by measuring (EthicalQuote (CEQ)), monitoring and reporting on it, helping them have a positive impact on society, the economy, and a sustainable future. The key drivers for the quality of sustainability reports are the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), (ACCA) award schemes or rankings. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines enable all organizations worldwide to assess their sustainability performance and disclose the results in a similar way to financial reporting. The largest database of corporate sustainability reports can be found on the website of the United Nations Global Compact initiative.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29959216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29959216", "title": "Tavi", "text": "Tavi\n\nTavi (c. 1st century) was the slave of Gamaliel II. Although not fully Jewish himself, he was known for his acquaintance and adherence to Talmudic law and for his piety. \n\nTavi is mentioned in several instances in the Mishnah. During the Feast of Tabernacles, he used to sleep under the bed in the sukkah. In allusion to this habit Gamaliel observed, \"Tavi, my slave, is a scholar; he knows that the law of booths does not apply to slaves, and therefore he sleeps under the bed\". Yet Tavi used to wear Tefillin, a duty and privilege of free men; but, his piety being known, he was not interfered with. Wishing to free him, but unable to do so since it would be contrary to the Law, Gamaliel, ostensibly by accident, put out one of his slave's eyes; then, meeting R. Joshua, he expressed his great joy at having found occasion to free his slave. Joshua, however, told him that he was mistaken, since no witnesses had been present and since he had confessed to the act himself. When Tavi died, his master received condolences from his friends, a rare occurrence in the case of slaves. It is said in Menahem Azariah da Fano's \"Gilgule Neshamot\" that Gamaliel's soul emanated from that of Shem, while Tavi's soul emanated from that of Ham, who was, according to the Bible, destined to be a slave to his brother. Besides, according to the lesser numerical values of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet, the names of Ham and Tavi both have the same numerical value, namely, twelve.\n"}
{"id": "13332901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13332901", "title": "Terry Calvani", "text": "Terry Calvani\n\nTerry Calvani (born January 29, 1947) is a lawyer, former government official and university professor. Appointed by President Ronald Reagan, he served one term as Commissioner of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. He was also a Member (now \"Commissioner\") of the governing board of the Competition Authority of Ireland (now Competition and Consumer Protection Commission ), where he held the criminal investigations portfolio. He has taught antitrust law at Vanderbilt University School of Law, Duke University School of Law, the Harvard Law School, Trinity College Dublin, Cornell Law School, Columbia Law School]]. He currently practices antitrust law with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and teaches at University of California, Hastings College of Law.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Calvani practiced with the San Francisco firm of Pillsbury Madison & Sutro. From 1974 to 1983, Calvani was professor of law at Vanderbilt University School of Law, where he taught courses in antitrust law. In 1983, he was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to serve one term as commissioner of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission from 1983-1990. He returned to practicing law at Pillsbury Madison & Sutro from 1990 until 2002, during which time he also taught antitrust at the Harvard Law School, from 1998 to 2001 and also at Duke University School of Law, in 2000.\n\nFrom 2002 until 2005, he was a member of the governing board of the Competition Authority of Ireland, where he held the criminal investigations portfolio. Concurrently, he taught antitrust law at Trinity College Dublin, from 2004 to 2005,Cornell Law School in 2006 and 2016, Columbia Law School in 2017. He is currently of counsel to Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, resident in its Washington, D.C., office, and teaches at University of California, Hastings College of Law.\n\nCalvani is the co-editor of a book on antitrust economics and the author of numerous articles on antitrust law. He has lectured extensively on competition issues and has served as chairman of several American Bar Association antitrust committees and on the governing board of its Antitrust Section. He is a life member of the American Law Institute, the Judicial Conference for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and serves on the advisory boards of the Antitrust Bulletin, Oxford Journal of Antitrust Enforcement and Dublin University Law Journal, and has been a member of the Administrative Conference of the United States. Calvani has served as a Non-Governmental Advisor (NGA)for the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division and the United States Federal Trade Commission to the International Competition Network (ICN) since 2005, and has provided technical assistance to competition enforcement agencies in Africa, Asia and Latin America.\n\nCalvani was born and grew up in Carlsbad, New Mexico. He received a B.A. in history from the University of New Mexico in 1970 and a J.D. with distinction from the Cornell Law School in 1972. He is married to Sarah Sage Holter, and lives in Nashville, Tennessee, and Marin County, California. He was previously married to Mary Virginia Anderson of Mill Valley, California and Judith Tbompson of Birmingham, Alabama. He has two children, Dominic Mario Calvani and Torello Howard Calvani, two step-children, Benjamin Douglas Hill and Elizabeth Sage Hill, and four grandchildren. \n\n"}
{"id": "3199640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3199640", "title": "Tet Truce", "text": "Tet Truce\n\nThe Tết Truce was traditionally a time of ceasefire that occurred between North Vietnam and South Vietnam in honor of the Tết holiday. The truce was violated by North Vietnam in 1968 during the Tet Offensive.\n"}
{"id": "46414231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46414231", "title": "Trevor Ivory Ltd v Anderson", "text": "Trevor Ivory Ltd v Anderson\n\nTrevor Ivory Ltd v Anderson is one of the leading New Zealand cases regarding the personal liability of company directors. The case concerns the personal liability of a director of a one-man company for negligent misstatement and applied the principle of \"Tesco Supermarkets Ltd v Nattrass \"that where a director is the \"directing mind\" of a company, his actions are legally those of the company. The application of the case by New Zealand courts during the leaky homes crisis has been described as a \"barrier to litigants recovering from directors of these companies\". \n\nTrevor Ivory Ltd was a one-man company run by Trevor Ivory in the Nelson province and described as \"agricultural and horticultural supplies and advisory service\". In 1983, Trevor Ivory Limited entered into an oral contract with raspberry orchardists for the provision of consultancy services and the supply of sprays and fertilisers. The orchardists sought advice under the agreement about the spread of couch grass which was threatening their raspberry plantation and in March 1985 Mr Ivory recommended a trial spray of Roundup.\n\nThe trial spray had no immediate ill-effects and so Mr Ivory advised spraying all of the couch grass with Roundup. President Cooke described what happened thus,\n\nThe raspberry orchardists sued Trevor Ivory in negligence and Heron J in the Nelson High Court found in their favour and awarded damages of $145,332 plus interest. The award of damages was made on the basis that the company was liable for breach of contract and negligent misstatement and that Mr Ivory was also personally liable for negligent misstatement.\n\nMr Ivory and Trevor Ivory Ltd appealed the decision that he was personally liable for negligent misstatement; the judges alleged failure to consider contributory negligence; and the quantum of damages. The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal except on the question of personal liability.\n\nThe main point that the Court considered was whether Mr Ivory was personally liable for negligent advice given in the course of his company's operations. The unanimous decision of the Court was that Mr Ivory was not personally liable \nIn his judgement Cooke P restated the \"elementary\" law that \"an incorporated company and any shareholder are separate legal entities, no matter that the shareholder may have absolute control.\"\n\nCooke P then surveyed Commonwealth case law that showed that a company officer or agent may, in certain circumstances, \"come under a personal duty to a third party, breach of which ay entail personal liability\".\n\nExpanding on this point Cooke P noted,\n\nIn his own judgement Justice Hardie Boys discussed the central importance of a director assuming responsibility, either expressly or by imputation and, noted the current case was \"approaching the borderline\" and that, \"It may be that in the present case there would have been a sufficient assumption of responsibility had Mr Ivory undertaken to do the spraying himself, but it is not necessary to consider that possibility.\"\n\nHardie Boys J stated that one of the key hurdles in this area of law was establishing that a director owed a personal duty of care because his acts were his acts as the agent of the company and not of the company itself.\n\nThis could happen in certain situations, Hardie Boys J believed, \"Assumption of responsibility may well arise or be imputed where the director or employee exercises particular control or control over a particular operation or activity\".\n\nJustice McGechan concurred with the rest of the Court, expressly noting of the argument given by counsel for the raspberry orchardists, \"It may indeed be drawing the long bow to apply a Hedley Byrne approach so as to impose personal liability upon the managing director of a one-man company, in rural New Zealand\".\n\nThe case remains the benchmark in New Zealand law for establishing whether a director's action are those of the company or those of herself as an individual. However this area of law, which has received frequent attention due to the leaky homes crisis, remains unstable. The importance of the case has been eroded by the decision of the Court of Appeal in \"Body Corporate 202254 v Taylor\" [2009] 2 NZLR 17\".\" As two commercial law academics reported, \"New Zealand cases subsequent to \"Trevor Ivory\" have done little but create uncertainty for litigants. The courts’ approaches have varied widely with some judges applying \"Trevor Ivory\" and others making every effort to distinguish it.\"\n"}
{"id": "10539188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10539188", "title": "Wake Forest Intellectual Property Law Journal", "text": "Wake Forest Intellectual Property Law Journal\n\nThe Wake Forest Journal of Business and Intellectual Property Law is a student-run law journal produced by the Wake Forest University School of Law.\n\nThe Journal was founded in 2001 after years of lobbying and preparation by students, professors, and alumni active in the field of intellectual property law. The Journal is one of three publications produced by the Wake Forest University School of Law. The Journal is independent from the Intellectual Property Law Association of Wake Forest University School of Law, but coordinates with that student group to plan events and host speakers on campus. The Journal was recently ranked 6th nationally out of all intellectual property law journals in the \"2006 ExpressO Law Review Submissions Guide.\"\n\nMembership on the Journal is competitive among students at Wake Forest. Slightly less than half of each incoming staff is chosen based solely on grade point average. The remaining staff members are chosen during a summer \"write-on\" competition, organized in conjunction with the Wake Forest Law Review and the Wake Forest Journal of Law & Policy. Students draft a \"note\" from a closed-research problem book, generally pertaining to a pending case before the Supreme Court or a Circuit Court of Appeal. The Note submissions are graded by the editors of each publication. The Journal also has a procedure whereby students with extensive work experience in intellectual property, and a demonstrated commitment to future employment in the field of intellectual property law, can apply to join the Journal as a staff member.\n\nThe Journal has a staff of approximately 40 students, with 14 of those serving in an editorial capacity. Professor Simone Rose serves as the faculty advisor.\n\nDecisions to publish a given piece of scholarship in the Journal are made by the editorial staff in conjunction with the Board of Advisors. The Board consists of professors of intellectual property law and attorneys practicing within the field. In addition to reviewing articles and providing substantive editorial suggestions to authors, members of the Board of Advisors assist in providing guidance and advice to the Journal's editors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5671937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5671937", "title": "War Brides Act", "text": "War Brides Act\n\nThe War Brides Act was enacted (on December 28, 1945) to allow alien spouses, natural children, and adopted children of members of the United States Armed Forces, \"if admissible,\" to enter the U.S. as non-quota immigrants after World War II. More than 100,000 entered the United States under this Act and its extensions and amendments until it expired in December 1948.\n\nThe 1945 Act exempted only military spouses and dependents from the quotas established by the Immigration Act of 1924 and the mental and health standards otherwise in force. Because the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed by the Magnuson Act in 1943, Chinese were the Asian group that benefitted most from the law. Exclusion of Filipinos and Asian Indians was repealed in 1946. A 1947 amendment of the War Brides Act removed the term \"if admissible,\" making it possible for Japanese and Korean wives of American soldiers to immigrate. The Alien Fiancées and Fiancés Act of 1946 extended the privileges to fiancées and fiancés of war veterans.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court, in \"Lutwak v. United States\" (1953), considered the case of the fraudulent use of the War Brides Act. It upheld the convictions of parties to a conspiracy to arrange for the immigration of three Polish refugees. They claimed that the marriages celebrated in France were never consummated, nor did the parties to the marriages ever live together.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34241167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34241167", "title": "Winding-up and Restructuring Act", "text": "Winding-up and Restructuring Act\n\nThe \"Winding-up and Restructuring Ac\"t () (\"WURA\") (the \"Act\") is a statute of the Parliament of Canada that provides for the winding up of certain corporations and the restructuring of financial institutions. It was passed in 1985, and has been amended since. Predecessors of the act date back to 1882.\n\nFollowing the 1880 repeal of Canadian insolvency law at the federal level, the Parliament of Canada returned to the field in 1882, passing legislation \"for the purpose of winding-up insolvent banks, and insolvent trading companies,\" known as \"An Act respecting Insolvent Banks, Insurance Companies, Loan Companies, Building Societies and Trading Corporations\". Until the passage of the \"Bankruptcy Act\" in 1919, it was the only federal statute governing insolvency, and it only extended to corporations. The 1919 Act covered individuals and corporations, so corporations were given a choice as to how to proceed with the liquidation of their affairs.\n\nIn 1899, provision was made for compromises and arrangements to be made during winding-up proceedings, subject to the approval by the creditors and the court.\n\nIn 1966, bankruptcy proceedings were given precedence over winding-up proceedings, and any of the latter instituted prior to a bankruptcy petition or assignment coming into effect had to be abated forthwith.\n\nIn 1996, the Act was retitled as the \"Winding-up and Restructuring Act\", and provision was made for the restructuring of insurance companies.\n\nA company is deemed insolvent when:\n\n\nThe Act cannot be used when proceedings have already been instituted under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\", but it is the only route for insolvent financial institutions to take, as they are not covered by the \"BIA\".\n\nIt also offers a little-used route for corporations (other than those governed by the \"CBCA\", \"CCoopA\" or \"CNPCA\") to seek liquidation or winding-up that does not necessarily call for being insolvent (except for provincially incorporated companies, where the insolvency requirement is mandatory). Companies for which there is no provision for winding-up either within their native statutes or under applicable provincial legislation comprise those incorporated under:\n\nThe WURA contains several provisions that stand in contrast to the BIA:\n\n\nIn \"Coopérants, Mutual Life Insurance Society (Liquidator of) v Dubois\", the Supreme Court of Canada held that a liquidator appointed under the \"Act\" was conceptually distinct from a trustee in bankruptcy appointed under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\":\n\n\n"}
