{"id": "6183512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6183512", "title": "Acne Studios", "text": "Acne Studios\n\nAcne Studios is a multidisciplinary luxury fashion house based in Stockholm, Sweden. Founded in 1996 as part of the creative collective ACNE, an acronym for Associated Computer Nerd Enterprises that was later changed to Ambition to Create Novel Expressions, the fashion house specializes in men's and women's ready-to-wear fashion, footwear, accessories and denim. Founder and Creative Director Jonny Johannson's interest in photography, art, architecture and contemporary culture has helped Acne Studios to become a respected creator of clothing, publications, furniture, exhibitions and special collaborations.\n\nAcne Studios was founded in 1996 in Stockholm, Sweden as part of the creative collective ACNE that focused on graphic design, film, production and advertising. In 1997, cofounder Jonny Johansson created 100 pairs of raw denim jeans with red stitching and gave them away to friends and family. \"Wallpaper*\" and \"Vogue Paris\" quickly picked up on the popularity of the jeans and Acne Studios rapidly expanded their fashion offering outside of denim. In 2006, Acne Studios became a standalone company and separated from other entities within the collective ACNE such as Acne Film, Acne Advertising and Acne Digital, at the same time launching their e-commerce. Since launching, Acne Studios has grown into a global fashion house with retail stores around the world including Paris, London, New York, Los Angeles, Antwerp and Tokyo, offering women's and men's ready-to-wear collections, showing at Paris Fashion Week twice a year and turning over $215 million annually in 2016.\n\nAcne Studios design men's and women's ready-to-wear fashion, footwear, denim, and accessories including handbags, small leather goods, and eyewear.\n\nAcne Studios stages runway fashion shows for its women's Fall/Winter and Spring/Summer collections twice a year\n\nOn April 6, 2017, Acne Studios relaunched its denim collection under the name Acne Studios Blå Konst (meaning \"Blue Art\" in Swedish) at all of their retail locations and on Acnestudios.com. This launch consists of men's and women's ready-to-wear, jeans, and accessories. In addition, an Acne Studios Blå Konst pop-up shop located in Tokyo's Shibuya district was opened to showcase the launch, which it houses exclusively. Six new denim styles including the North, River, and Land for men and the Climb, South, and Log for women have replaced the range of existing denim products. While these jean styles are permanent, the Blå Konst ready-to-wear collection will be updated seasonally.\n\nOn August 17, 2017, Acne Studios launched its face motif collection, featuring patches of an emoticon face with two small circles and a long rectangle. Having first been introduced in their Autumn/Winter 2013 collection as a clutch, the face motif was featured in a unisex collection of ready-to-wear and accessories. \n\nAcne Studios avoids traditional forms of marketing and advertising, choosing instead to publish a biannual magazine called \"Acne Paper\". \"Acne Paper\" covers the disciplines of art, fashion, photography, design, architecture, academia, and culture. Each issue is based around a theme that is interpreted by selected contributors from their field of expertise. Contributors to \"Acne Paper\" have included Carine Roitfeld, Noam Chomsky, David Lynch, Lord Snowdon, Azzedine Alaïa, Mario Testino, Sarah Moon, Tilda Swinton and Paolo Roversi. The fifteenth and final issue was published in 2014; Acne Paper has since been discontinued.\n\nAcne Studios has retail locations around the world including Stockholm, Copenhagen, Berlin, New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Milan, Melbourne, Sydney, Antwerp, London, Paris, Oslo, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Seoul, Beijing, and Shanghai. Acne Studios' Stockholm flagship store on Norrmalmstorg was the location of the 1973 bank robbery and subsequent hostage situation that gave rise to the term Stockholm Syndrome for the psychological phenomenon in which hostages express empathy and sympathy toward their captors. Acne Studios' first location in Italy, Piazza del Carmine, opened in June 2017. Acne Studios San Francisco opened in July, marking its second location in California.\n\nIn September 2016, Acne Studios announced its Fall/Winter 2016 campaign, shot by British photographer David Sims. The series was photographed in three parts, and each was presented globally- from posters plastered on the walls during Paris Fashion Week and Hong Kong's Golden week, on streetcars in Milan, and to digital images at London's Harrods. \n\nFor the Spring/Summer 2017 campaign, Paolo Roversi shot a portrait series featuring creatives around the world, such as Golshifteh Farahani, Fatima Al Qadiri, and Hayv Kahraman. The photography series was exhibited outdoors in New York, Paris, Milan, and Hong Kong. \n\nFor the introduction of Acne Studios Blå Konst, Collier Schorr shot the campaign featured on the homepage of AcneStudios.com. These photographs launched online along with the new products on April 6, 2017.\n\nAcne Studios has collaborated widely with representatives from the creative industries to produce limited edition collections. Some examples include a range of bikes with the world’s oldest bike manufacturer Bianchi Bicycles, a furniture line of sofas based on Swedish designer Carl Malmsten’s sofa Nya Berlin, a capsule collection with couture house Lanvin, an art installation and a collection with artist Katerina Jebb, a cross-gender blouse collection with transsexual magazine \"Candy\", an art book and blue shirt line with Lord Snowdon, limited edition prints with William Wegman, a rodeo-themed book and capsule collection inspired by Bruce of Los Angeles, a collection based around artworks by abstract Swedish pioneer Hilma af Klint, and a capsule collection with Liberty London. \n\nMore recent collaborations include a limited-edition monograph and unisex silk pajama collection with American sculptor Peter Schlesinger, small leather goods monogrammed with Jack Pierson's custom lettering, and a custom rug collection for Acne Studios' Madison Ave. location designed by British designer Max Lamb and Swedish rug company Kasthall.\n\nIn 2012, Acne Studios and photographer Lord Snowdon collaborated to launch Acne Studios' first published book: \"Snowdon Blue\". The publication included Snowdon's portraits of David Bowie, Serge Gainsbourg, Monolo Blahnik and more, all dressed in blue shirts. A limited-edition collection of 8 styles of blue button-ups alluding to the book's visuals were also created and sold both in-store and online. Acne Studios' second photography book, \"Bruce of Los Angeles: Rodeo,\" presents photographer Bruce Bellas' shots of American cowboys. In addition, Jonny Johannson designed a collection of western-themed tops, jeans, and boots to embody the classic American theme. \"Peter Schlesinger Sculpture\" was released by Acne Studios in conjunction with a capsule collection of silk loungewear on April 29, 2015. The book features photos of over 150 of American sculptor Peter Schlesinger's works since the 1980s, and was shot by Eric Boman. The monograph's photos were accompanied by Swedish text and printed on Japanese paper.\n\nThe recent Spring/Summer 2017 campaign, shot by Paolo Roversi, was also released as a limited-edition publication and featured interviews of those photographed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2835162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835162", "title": "Ammanai", "text": "Ammanai\n\nAmmanai () is a type of Tamil poetry belonging to the family of \"Tharavu kochchaga kalippa\". This is a type of poetry associated with a game of the same name that was popular with teen girls. Ammanai will be in the form of questions and answers. Ammanai generally follows the rules of a venpa, but can occasionally have kalithalais and belongs to the kalippa family.\n\nThe earliest ammanai poetry was composed by Saint Manikkavasagar. There is an ammanai which is said to be sung by the poets Ottakuththar and Pugalzendhi. During later times, it became something like a historical ballad. Ramappaiyan Ammanai was composed to extol the wars fought by Dalavay Ramappaiyan who was the general of Tirumalai Nayakkar of Madurai.\n\nThe Sivagangai Seemai Kummi/Ammanai relates the final wars of the valiant Marudhu Brothers of Sivagangai.\n\nThe Palm-leaf manuscript's on Ariviyur Nagarathar Ammanai was also found in Sivagangai district which explains the history of the Nagarathar community.\n"}
{"id": "627262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627262", "title": "Antiphonary of St. Benigne", "text": "Antiphonary of St. Benigne\n\nThe Antiphonary tonary missal of St. Benigne (also called Antiphonarium Codex Montpellier or Tonary of Saint-Bénigne of Dijon) was supposed to be written in the last years of the 10th century, when the Abbot William of Volpiano at St. Benignus of Dijon reformed the liturgy of several monasteries in Burgundy. The chant manuscript records mainly Western plainchant of the Roman-Frankish proper mass and part of the chant sung during the matins (\"Gregorian chant\"), but unlike the common form of the Gradual and of the Antiphonary, William organized his manuscript according to the chant genre (antiphons with psalmody, alleluia verses, graduals, offertories, and proses for the missal part), and these sections were subdivided into eight parts according to the octoechos. This disposition followed the order of a tonary, but William of Volpiano wrote not only the incipits of the classified chant, he wrote the complete chant text with the music in central French neumes which were still written in \"campo aperto\", and added a second alphabetic notation of his own invention for the melodic structure of the codified chant.\n\nThis particular type of a fully notated tonary only appeared in Burgundy and Normandy. It can be regarded as a characteristic document of a certain school founded by William of Volpiano, who was reforming abbot at St. Benignus of Dijon since 989. In 1001 he followed a request by Duke Richard II and became first abbot at the Abbey of Fécamp which was a reforming centre of monasticism in Normandy.\n\nOnly this manuscript was written during the time of William by the same hand as several other manuscripts of the Library of the Medical Faculty of Montpellier (today \"Bibliothèque interuniversitaire de Médecin\") which all belong to St. Bénigne. It is not known, whether it was really written by William of Volpiano in person. The few things known about him can be read in a hagiographic source, the \"Vita domni Willelmi\" in fourteen chapters written by his disciple, the Burgundian monk Raoul Glaber in 1031, and revised probably by demand of the later Abbot John of Fécamp during the late 11th century. William was born as son of the Alemannic Duke Robert of Volpiano at the citadel of his family on the island S. Giulio of the Lake Orta in Piedmont. The legend said that Emperor Otto had conquered this island, while William was born, so the Emperor became his patron and he was educated as a monk and made his clerical career at Cluny Abbey during the reform of Abbot Majolus who continued the reform of his predecessor Odo and supported reforms connected with papal politics under influence of the Ottonic Emperors. Concerning liturgical reforms, Emperor Otto I already emphasized the need for a reform of monasticism in Southern Italy and to abandon local liturgies in favour of the Roman rite, a kind of second Carolingian reform, and he already wished to \"liberate\" Arab Sicily and to organize church provinces of the island which was mainly populated by Muslims and by a Greek Christians. His plan failed after the catastrophic defeat of his son Otto II near Reggio, but the role of Cluny as a centre for liturgical reforms had increased in Ottonic times.\n\nWilliam's reforms were not only concerned with liturgy and the new design of local chant books, but also with the construction of new churches and buildings for abandoned abbeys, with canon law, with the organization of grammar schools and even rural communities of Normandy. It was typical for a career at Cluny Abbey to get one of the most prestigious positions as a cantor and to continue as a reforming abbot in another Abbey, which was subjected to this powerful and ambitious Abbey. As Abbot of St. Benignus William reformed several monasteries of Burgundy, Lorraine and the Île-de-France. There are some testimonies like the \"Libellus de revelatione, edificatione et auctoritate Fiscannensis monasterii\", a chronicle of Fécamp, which reports certain ressentments against Norman culture and its local liturgical customs. William appeared as a Cluniac reformer, but studies of his liturgical reform especially of the Office chant for Fécamp did not confirm, that he just removed local in favour of Cluniac customs. Within the reform and the history of Norman monasticism, the reform of William of Volpiano was neither the beginning nor its climax, as a reformer he had to find a balance between local needs and problems and certain interests of the Cluniac Abbot, of the Pope, and of the Norman patrons, whose founding activities cultivated a new form of policy. William contributed to this history with the foundation of an own school.\n\nAccording to Véronique Gazeau he did not spend too much time in Normandy during the period about 30 years of his Norman activities, but nevertheless his school could be established, because he ordained his students as abbots. He was not only Abbot at Fécamp, but also at Jumièges between 1015 and 1017. He became first Abbot of Bernay, a foundation of Countess Judith, Richard II's wife, in 1025. By order of Duke Robert he left Fécamp for John of Ravenna in 1028, before 1027 he was assisted at the Abbey at Bernay by a \"custos\" Thierry, an elder and experienced monk and prior from Saint-Bénigne of Dijon. Before he followed Suppo as prior at Mont-Saint-Michel in 1023. These administrative changes were caused by the establishment of monastic centres during certain periods, in which some Abbeys were no longer guided by an abbot, but by a prior of the community who was often called \"custos\", and several new foundations did not always start as an Abbey, they were subordinated to older abbeys. These monastic centres which had the control over various monasteries including former abbeys, were used to control new foundations as well as to obey liturgical and administrative reforms. This practice was continued after William's death, Fécamp and Saint-Bénigne were controlled by one abbot between 1052 and 1054: Abbot John of Ravenna. When the new founded monasteries became abbeys, the abbots were usually chosen among the monks of Fécamp.\n\nOnly few writings by William have survived in the Abbey of Fécamp, but it is not always easy to decide, if the collection of Montpellier which belonged obviously to the library of the Abbey St. Benignus of Dijon, had this Abbey as destination. Michel Huglo remarked that the last part of the manuscript H.159, the real Antiphonary with antiphons and responsories for the Matins, was continued by the 13th-century copy of the Antiphonary of the Abbey of Fécamp (Rouen, Bibliothèque municipale, Ms. 254, olim A.190). So the destination of the Tonary of Saint-Bénigne is still a matter of discussion. On the other hand, customs of St. Bénigne like the liturgy for the patron can also be found in other Abbeys as Fécamp and Bernay, and the tonaries of Dijon (Montpellier, Ms. H159), of Fécamp (Rouen, Ms. 244, olim A.261), and of Jumièges (Rouen, Ms. 248, olim A.339) are so consistent that they can be regarded as documents of one school which can be ascribed to William of Volpiano.\n\nOne of William's innovations as a cantor and notator was an alphabetic pitch notation. Its point of reference was the Boethian diagramm, which displayed the double octave of the \"systema teleion\" in the diatonic (semitonium-tonus-tonus), the chromatic (semitonium-semitonium-trihemitonium), and the enharmonic tetrachord (diesis-diesis-ditonus). The different positions were represented by alphabetical letters, except the dieses which had special signs not unlike the tyronic letters used by Boethius:\n\nThis alphabetic pitch notation does not only offer insights into microtonal shifts used by the cantors of this local school, it also proves that the common projection of the piano keyboard on the medieval tone system is inadequate. Like many other letter systems used since the 8th century, also the system of William of Volpiano represented the positions of the Boethian diagramm, and the enharmonic signs used for the dieses represented not a change into another genus, but microtonal attractions within the diatonic melos of a certain mode.\n\nConcerning the diesis Guido of Arezzo wrote about 1026 in his treatise \"Micrologus\" that the diesis sharpens the usual tonus between re-mi (a-b; d-e; g-h or h-i) with the proportion 9:8 by a proportion of 7:6 (a-˫; d-˧; g-Γ or h-˥). Guido's explanation, how to find this intervall at the monochord, made it already evident that the diesis, taken from the \"enharmonic\" division of the tetrachord, was used here as a microtonal shift in different melodic modes of the diatonic genus.\n\nThe Tonary of Saint-Bénigne of Dijon is organized in a very rare form of a fully notated tonary, which serves like a fully notated music manuscript for mass (gradual) and office chant (antiphonary).\n\nThe first division of the chant book is between the book's gradual (ff. 13r-155v) and an antiphonary fragment (ff. 156r-162v) which has the Matins for Palm Sunday, St. Blasius and St. Hylarius in the conventional liturgical order, but with tonal rubrics. The last leaf was added from another book to use the blank versoside for additions on the last pages written by other hands, chant notated in adiastematic neumes but without alphabetic notation and even diastematic neumes with alphabetic notation (ff. 160r-163r).\n\nThe gradual itself with proper mass chant is divided into six parts: The first are antiphons (introits and communions) (ff. 13r-53r). The next three parts are chant genres which precedes lessons: alleluia verses for gospel readings (ff. 53v-69r), the benedictiones (hymnus trium puerorum) for prophetic readings (ff. 75r-76v), and the graduels for epistle readings (ff. 77r-98v). The last two parts are an \"offertorial\" (ff. 99r-151r) and a tractus collection (ff. 69r-74v; 151v-155v), dedicated to the genre which replace the alleluia verses during fasten time for all kinds of scriptural readings.\n\nThe third level of division are the eight parts according to the oktoechos in the order of autentus protus, plagi proti, autentus deuterus etc. In the first part, every tonal section has all introits according to the liturgical year cycle and then all communions according to the liturgical order. The whole disposition is not new, but it is identical with tonaries from different regions of the Cluniac Monastic Association. The only difference is, that every chant is not represented by an incipit, it is fully notated in neumes and in alphabetic notation as well. Thanks to this manuscript, even cantors who do not know the chant, can memorize the melody together with its tonus.\n\nAs an example might serve the Introitus \"Repleatur os meum\" used as a refrain for psalm 70 during the procession into the church, at the beginning of the morning mass on Saturday before Pentecost. The introit was written in the first part of the antiphons and is quite at the beginning of the deuterus section (written as heading on each page), hence an introit in the 3rd tone or \"autentus deuterus\":\n\nThe beginning with the psalm incipit and the ending of the psalmody, here called \"differentia\" no. \"ii\", follows the antiphon. The antiphons of the entrance (introits) have the gradual order of the mass as a rubric at the margin (on a verso page as here: left), i.e. the serial for the day with \"gradual\" (R), \"alleluia\" (All) or \"tractus\" (TR), \"offertorium\" (OF), and \"communio\" (CO). A conventional tonary with the list of \"differentiae\" was also attached to the beginning of the manuscript. It was used as an index to find the \"differentia\" no. ii or melodic ending used during the recitation of the psalm - here the incipit refers to psalm 70 of the Vulgata. This tonary is preceded by an alleluia collection written in central French neumes in campo aperto.\n\nThe style of William of Volpiano's tonary which follows, is unique, and Michel Huglo called it one of the finest tonaries which survived in the manuscript collections today. The scribe used red ink for the chant text and different colours to decorate its initials, while the neume and the alphabetic notation was written in black ink.\n\nWilliam of Volpiano's innovation of the notation system did not change the habits of central French neume notation, it just added an own alphabetic pitch notation. Often it was not clear how the letters refer to the neumes. Letter groups usually refer to the group of a ligature, but sometimes neumes were added as well to the letters to help the reading cantor for the coordination.\n\nAmong the monastic reforms of Normandy William of Volpiano was an important protagonist among the local abbots, but his alphabetic notation was only used over the following centuries in the Norman monasteries of his school, but never in the later Italo-Norman manuscripts which were rather influenced by the Aquitanian school (a few manuscripts used central French neumes, but without alphabetic notation). Within the Cluniac Monastic Association, the cantors of the following generation like Adémar de Chabannes who was taught by his uncle Roger at Saint-Martial Abbey of Limoges (Aquitaine), developed a new diastematic neume notation which allowed to indicate the ligatures, even if they were separated by the vertical disposition according to their pitch class. His innovation was imitated by Italian cantors, first in Northern Italy than in other reform centres of the 11th century like Benevento and Monte Cassino. During the 12th century one are two lines were added to help the scribe and the reader for a constant vertical orientation.\n\nAfter the first generation of fully notated neume manuscripts written since the early 10th century, the particular notation system represent a transition between the adiastematic and diastematic neumes. During the 11th century a lot of local traditions, different from the chant repertory of the Roman-Frankish reform, were codified the first time in diastematic neumes: Old Beneventan chant (Beneventan neumes without lines), Ravenna chant (Beneventan neumes), Old Roman chant (Roman neumes without lines), Ambrosian or Milanese chant (square neumes on a penta- or tetragramm).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3152306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152306", "title": "Bartending terminology", "text": "Bartending terminology\n\nVarious unique terminology is used in bartending.\n\nIn bartending, the term \"straight up\" (or \"up\") refers to an alcoholic drink that is shaken or stirred with ice and then strained and served without ice in a stemmed glass.\n\nThere is substantial confusion in the usage of \"neat\", or \"straight up\", \"straight\", and \"up\". In the context of describing ways of serving a drink, all of these mean \"served without ice\", but only \"neat\" implies serving the drink at room temperature. Some bar patrons and bartenders use the terms inconsistently. The terms \"straight\" and \"straight up\" can be ambiguous, as they are sometimes used to mean \"neat\"; \"neat\" and \"up\" are relatively unambiguous.\n\n\"Straight\" is often used interchangeably with \"neat\" (in the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States). However, \"straight\" is also often used to refer to a spirit that is in an unmixed state in general, in addition to being used to describe a way of serving it. For example, many bourbons are identified as \"Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey\" on their bottling labels, and U.S. Federal law contains a legal definition of the term \"straight whiskey\". So sometimes \"straight\" may be used to mean \"either\" \"straight up\" (as defined above) or \"neat\", and clarification may be needed to determine the exact manner for serving it.\n\nA drink served \"neat\" is a single, unmixed liquor served without being chilled and without any water, ice, or other mixer. Neat drinks are typically served in a rocks glass, shot glass, snifter, Glencairn glass, or copita.\n\n\"On the rocks\" refers to liquor poured over ice cubes, and a \"rocks drink\" is a drink served on the rocks. Rocks drinks are typically served in a rocks glass, highball glass, or Collins glass, all of which refer to a relatively straight-walled, flat-bottomed glass; the rocks glass is typically the shortest and widest, followed by the highball which is taller and often narrower, then the Collins which is taller and narrower still.\n\n\"With a twist\" signals the bartender to add a \"twist\" of the zest of a citrus fruit (bar choice, if unspecified) to the cocktail. Often, the bartender will hang the rind of the citrus on the glass as a garnish (see martini photo above).\n\nCocktails are generally served chilled, although some (e.g., margaritas) may be served either with or without ice, and this must be specified. Cocktails can be served \"frozen\" which is with crushed ice instead of cubes.\nUnmixed liquors may be served either neat, up, or on the rocks, with differing conventions. High quality whisky and other aged liquor is most often served neat, while lower quality whisky is usually served with a mixer or on the rocks. Vodka can be stored as a liquid well below the freezing point of water because of its high proof and low particulate content, and cocktails made with sub-freezing vodka are sometimes requested to minimize the amount of added water from melted ice during shaking.\n\nA shot of whisky, tequila, or vodka, when served neat in a shot glass, is often accompanied by a \"chaser\" (a mild drink consumed after a shot of hard liquor) or a \"water back\" (a separate glass of water). These terms commingle as well; it is common in many locales to hear a \"beer back\" ordered as the chaser to a shot. A drink may specifically be ordered \"no chaser\" as well.\n\nA \"chaser\" in the UK however usually refers to a shot taken after a pint of beer or similar.\n\nDrinks establishments will often have a lower-priced category of drinks, known as \"well drinks\" or \"rail drinks\", and a higher-priced category known as \"top-shelf\" or \"call\" drinks, and will use upselling by offering the higher-priced category when taking orders. The terms come from the relative positions of the bottles of spirit used for the drinks; the cheapest version of a spirit offered by a bar is typically stored in a long rail or \"well\" making it readily available to a busy bartender, while the more expensive, better-quality liqueurs and spirits are displayed on shelves behind the bar where they attract patrons to the available selection.\n\nA \"pony\" is slang for of spirit, while the standard-size \"shot\" of alcohol is a \"jigger\", with a \"double\" being .\n\nRather than use measuring equipment, professional bartenders usually use a pour spout inserted into the mouth of the bottle, which restricts the flow of liquid to a standard rate allowing reasonably accurate time-based pours. For instance, a \"6-count\" is a common analogue for a 1.5oz jigger, which can be trained to by having the bartender upend the bottle (with pour spout installed) and counting to 6 out loud as quickly as the words can be said clearly. This method breaks down into convenient sub-measures; each count is approximately one-quarter fluid ounce, making a \"pony\" 4 counts and a \"half-jigger\" 3 counts. This system is not perfect because liquids of different viscosities will pour at different rates through the same spout, but it does allow consistent pours from drink to drink for a consistent result from each bartender, while being much faster than using a thimble measure or similar spirit measure.\n\n"}
{"id": "43951800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43951800", "title": "Blindfolded tourism", "text": "Blindfolded tourism\n\nA blind tour (also blindfold/blindfolded tourism/sightseeing or cecitourism) is a contemporary concept in tourism. A form of experimental travel, it is a guided tour in which the tourist is blindfolded for the entire duration of the tour while being talked through the visited areas, as opposed to traditional sightseeing. A blind tour is a very different experience owing to the absence of one vital sense, sight, thereby stimulating the other relevant senses, namely hearing, feel and smell. The concept has been related to that of the \"dark restaurant\", where there is no light for diners to see what they eat.\n\nA \"blindfold tour\" to savour the smells of the City of London was proposed as far back as 1970. More recently, blindfolded tours have been offered in a range of mainly urban locations, including tours of Prague Castle, Tirana in Albania, Vancouver, and the Alfama quarter of Lisbon. The German artist Christian Jankowski has undertaken two blind tours: one in Dubai and one in Montevideo, where he led a group of blindfolded journalists. \n\nThe activity has been featured in a list of \"25 Craziest Things To Do Before You Die\".\n\nIn some cases a blind tour may involve offering the tourist a video of their tour following completion of the tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "10136349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10136349", "title": "Block booking", "text": "Block booking\n\nBlock booking is a system of selling multiple films to a theater as a unit. Block booking was the prevailing practice among Hollywood's major studios from the turn of the 1930s until it was outlawed by the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in \"United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.\" (1948). Under block booking, \"independent ('unaffiliated') theater owners were forced to take large numbers of [a] studio's pictures sight unseen. Those studios could then parcel out second-rate product along with A-class features and star vehicles, which made both production and distribution operations more economical.\" The element of the system involving the purchase of unseen pictures is known as blind bidding.\n\nParamount Pictures, under Adolph Zukor's leadership, was largely responsible for introducing the practice of block booking to Hollywood:\n\nAt a time when star prominence was the single most important factor determining a film's box-office success, Zukor had cornered the market. In a 1918 popularity poll...the six top stars on the list—Mary Pickford, Marguerite Clark, Douglas Fairbanks, Harold Lockwood, William S. Hart, and Wallace Reid—were all under contract to Zukor.\n<br><br>\nUsing this leverage, Paramount was able to insist that prospective exhibitors interested in, say, the Pickford films, acquire them in large blocks along with a quantity of less attractive titles. These block-booking arrangements typically included groups of from 13 to 52 or even 104 titles. Paramount salesmen offered a variety of different product lines, from the top-quality Artcraft releases of Pickford, Fairbanks, and Hart to the more modest Realart productions, in which stars such as Bebe Daniels were being developed. Because these films had not yet been produced, exhibitors were required to \"buy blind\" from a sketchy prospectus or campaign book.\n\nAll of the other major studios, with the exception of United Artists, ultimately copied these policies to varying degrees. For much of the 1920s, Paramount and growing Warner Bros., in particular, \"relied heavily on block booking and blind bidding.\" Already, in 1921 the Federal Trade Commission had launched an investigation of the studios' booking practices that would last for eleven years. A 1927 cease-and-desist order was disregarded by the majors. Smaller distributors such as Associated Exhibitors who attempted to retain open booking were eventually driven to accept the practice.\n\nWith Hollywood's conversion to sound film in the late 1920s, block booking increasingly became standard practice: in order to get access to a studio's attractive A pictures, many theaters were obliged to rent the company's entire output for a season. Paramount Pictures President Adolph Zukor obtained the Paramount-Publix chains of theaters that totaled in 1,200 screens, and insisted that the exhibitors and independent theaters sign a contract with their company if they wanted the exclusive, top-of-the-line Paramount productions. With a whole season's worth of films offered up on an all-or-nothing basis, theaters weren't just bidding on movies they hadn't seen, but on many movies not yet even made. This was also called \"blind-bidding\" because, other than knowing the genre, the actors and actresses, and a brief overview of the plot, the exhibitors knew nothing about the films they were acquiring. In one case, Zukor had pressured theater operators to buy a block of one hundred and four films each year and forced them to show two films per week, for fifty-two consecutive weeks. With the B movies—less expensively produced films intended to run as the lower half of double features—rented at a flat fee (rather than the box office percentage basis of A films), rates could be set that essentially guaranteed the profitability of every B movie. Block booking and blind bidding meant that the majors didn't have to worry over much about the quality of these B pictures:\nKnowing that even the poorest picture would find an outlet, the studios could operate at full capacity. In the process, the majors shifted the risks of production financing to the independent exhibitor. The long-term effects of the policy also stifled competition by foreclosing the market to independent producers and distributors. In short, block booking allowed the majors to wrest the greatest amount of profits from the marketplace.\n\nAlong with the blocks of features, exhibitors were required to take the major's shorts as well—a practice known as \"full-line forcing\". The smaller Hollywood studios—known collectively as Poverty Row—didn't have the big pictures with A-list stars that would have allowed them to compel theater owners to directly block book. Instead, they mostly sold exclusive regional distribution rights to so-called states' rights firms. These distributors in turn marketed blocks of movies to exhibitors, typically six or more pictures featuring the same star (given that the films' source was Poverty Row, a relatively minor star). In July 1938, the Justice Department's antitrust division filed a suit, \"United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc. et al.\", charging the eight major Hollywood studios with violating the Sherman Antitrust Act.\n\nThe Sherman Trust Act of 1890 controlled the interstate commerce with different trust-busting provisions and were brought to bear against studio system monopolistic activities. Block booking and blind bidding were at the heart of the practices charged as illegally monopolistic.\nThe Department of Justice filed suit against the distribution arms of Hollywood studios in the Famous Players-Lasky antitrust case of 1928. The Department of Justice charged the ten entities that controlled ninety eight percent of the domestic theatrical distribution. Appeals were filed and the studios were able to prevent charges from being followed through until 1929, due to the collapse of the stock market and the Great Depression happening at the same time, making this issue moot. The major studios controlled the programming of their theaters and also had negotiated wide-ranging distribution deals that constricted the financial state of independent theaters.\n\nOn October 29, 1940, the Big Five studios (Loews/MGM, Paramount, 20th Century-Fox, Warner Bros.-First National, and RKO—the majors that owned large theater chains) signed a consent decree in an attempt to settle the case. It provided, among other things, that \"block booking would continue, but in blocks no larger than five films; trade shows would be held regularly to provide exhibitors with advance screenings; [and] forcing of shorts and newsreels was banned.\" Because the decree was forged after the September 1 beginning of the 1940–41 exhibition season, the new blocks-of-five arrangement did not go into effect until the 1941–42 season. When the consent decree lapsed in 1942, most of the majors continued with blocks of five, though MGM went with blocks of twelve for two years. In contrast, Warner Bros. abandoned blocks altogether in 1943. The practice was entirely outlawed by the Supreme Court's 1948 decision, United States v. Paramount et al., against the studios in the \"Paramount\" antitrust case.\n\nIn concurrence with decisions held by the lower courts, the Supreme Court ruled that all of the major movie studios had prevented domestic and foreign competition through their control over theaters. In its 1948 decision, the Supreme Court ordered the elimination of block booking and demanded a separation of theater holdings from production and distribution. Without control over block booking, studios feared that they could no longer force theaters to buy up to 400 movies each year. In anticipation of mass profit-loss, studios cut production schedules and terminated contracts with actors, producers, directors and other staff. Newly unemployed artists began pursuing careers in television. As popular movie actors transitioned from the silver screen to the television screen, viewers followed their favorite artists to the new medium. In 1951, almost all cities with television stations saw a significant increase in movie theater closures corresponding with a simultaneous increase in television viewership. The substantial rise in television’s popularity during the 1950s can be largely attributed to the Supreme Court’s decision to outlaw block booking.\n\n"}
{"id": "375022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375022", "title": "Boogiepop series", "text": "Boogiepop series\n\nThe of Japanese light novels is written by Kouhei Kadono and illustrated by Kouji Ogata. It includes titles from different media, each connected by repeating characters and related plots. Presented in vignettes, each chapter presents the reader with only snapshots of what is happening, leaving them to find clues to understand the greater plot.\n\n\"Boogiepop\" is best characterized as young adult fiction and is credited with starting the light novel trend in Japan. By March 2000, two million copies of Kadono's Boogiepop light novels works were in print. The anime and live action film inspired by the original light novels have been released in English by The Right Stuf International, while Seven Seas Entertainment released four of the light novels and the manga.\n\nTo face the \"enemies of the world\", the \"shinigami\" Boogiepop automatically rises to the surface. In Boogiepop's world, the Towa Organization, a shadowy group seeking to control humanity, managed to capture an alien organism who had taken the form of a highly evolved human. By studying him, the Towa Organization was able to create synthetic humans, people who have been artificially enhanced with special abilities. The mission of the Towa Organization and its agents is to find and kill MPLS, people who are more evolved than others and possess special abilities. However, Boogiepop will not let the Towa Organization get its way and he is not alone in his efforts.\n\nThe Boogiepop series is very much about the characters: their relationships, their pasts, their memories. This is especially true for how their pasts molded them into the people they are today. It can also be seen through scenes being presented from the perspective of different characters, and how the individual casts a different \"feel\" by how they relate to events. Another important theme is change. How the world changes and our different perceptions of this change, especially how one's perception of things changes as they grow up. \"Boogiepop Phantom\" is also highly metaphorical, with a character or an image representing much more than face value. It is also \"a show about the inter-related nature of people's lives and the concept that they know of as time.\"\n\nKadono has published fourteen light novels and has serialized short stories in \"Dengegi HP\", many of which have been published as a four-volume series about Pete Beat, a member of the Towa Organization. Two manga serials have been drawn for this series, which were serialized in \"Dengeki Daioh\" and \"Dengeki Animation\". In 2000, the anime series \"Boogiepop Phantom\" aired on Japanese television; a drama CD, featuring Kaori Shimizu, was released to promote this series. Later that year, the movie \"Boogiepop and Others\" was released.\n\nEach Boogiepop title has its own cast of characters, and many of these characters will make appearances in more than one title, but there are only four central characters that are consistently at the center of the plot.\n\nThe shinigami whispered of among the female students of Shinyo Academy, few people know that Boogiepop actually exists. Normally dormant, Boogiepop rises to the surface when enemies of the world appear. Boogiepop's appearance and voice are ambiguous: they seem both masculine and feminine at the same time. However, hidden beneath his signature black cloak and black, pipe-shaped hat, little is ever seen of him. Straight-faced and to the point, Boogiepop acts as mechanical as he claims to be. Boogiepop speaks in an archaic manner, and seems fond of whistling the overture to Wagner's \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\".\n\nAn ordinary, happy school girl at Shinyo Academy, Miyashita is in love with her boyfriend, Keiji Takeda, and close friends with Suema. Not particularly good at school, she does not stand out in any way. Unknown to most, she was hospitalized as a child, and this saw her life change, though even Miyashita herself does not seem to know the truth of what happened, and was simply told that she had been possessed by a kitsune. Unknowingly, when the world is in trouble, she carries a Spalding sports bag containing the effects of Boogiepop, her alternate personality. She has no recollection of her time as Boogiepop, and alters her memories to explain the blanks.\n\nKnown as the Fire Witch to many, Kirima has made few friends due the way she distances herself from others: she knows that she is too dangerous for 'normal' people to associate with. She has a messianic complex, and seeks to save the world from whatever may threaten it. As such, whenever there are unusual happenings within the city, Kirima can be found investigating what has happened. In the past, she had spent a period of time in hospital. A combination of the events from that period of her life, as well as the death of her father, the famous writer Kirima Seiichi, brought her to follow this path in life. Extremely gifted both physically and intellectually, she has the basic tools she needs to carry out her self-appointed mission.\n\nAs a result of a childhood trauma, Suema has developed an unusual fascination with criminal and abnormal psychology, as well as the desire to not let anything occur around her without her knowing. As a result of this, she desperately seeks the truth about the unexplained events happening in her city, and meddles with forces best left untouched. Good friends with Miyashita Touka, Suema appreciates how she so open and unconditionally accepting of her, and looks out for her friend. She seeks to be closer with Kirima Nagi, who seems to know the answers to the questions that have haunted her all these years. Despite her involvement in several incidents, she has yet to see Boogiepop in action.\n\nThe Right Stuf International licensed \"Boogiepop Phantom\" for English release in 2001. They dubbed the series and have distributed it in the US in both VHS and DVD formats. The series is distributed in the UK by ADV Films and across Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment. \"Boogiepop Phantom\" has also been localised and released in Argentina, Brazil, France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands.\n\nIn 2004, The Right Stuf International acquired the film \"Boogiepop and Others\". It has been released on DVD in Japanese with English subtitles, and is distributed in both the US and Europe, along with a director's commentary and behind the scenes interviews with the cast.\n\nIn 2005, Seven Seas Entertainment announced they had acquired the rights to publish the Boogiepop novels and manga in English. Before 2018, they released the first three novels and the sixth, as well as the \"Boogiepop Doesn't Laugh\" and \"Boogiepop Dual\" manga. Seven Seas Entertainment has announced that they will re-release the novels in an omnibus format.\n\n\"Boogiepop and Others\" won the Fourth Dengeki Novel Prize in 1997 and was released in the Dengeki Book Collection in 1998 where it gained popularity. It is credited with popularizing light novels, as well as redefining young adult fiction in Japan. It was later adapted into a live action film by Ryu Kaneda, a two-volume manga by Kouji Ogata and served as the inspiration for a soundtrack composed by Yuki Kajiura. \"Boogiepop and Others\" also sets the scene for the anime, \"Boogiepop Phantom\", which has its backstory loosely based on the climax of the light novel. Having already gained a strong readership among High School and University age men, the release of \"\" was met with overwhelming support. By the time the \"Boogiepop and Others\" film was released, the Boogiepop series was a bestseller, with over two million copies in print.\n\nThe Boogiepop series has received high praise from critics. \"Boogiepop Phantom\" has received the most exposure, where it is often compared to \"Serial Experiments Lain\" and \"Paranoia Agent\". It has been noted that the series is \"not your average anime\", and one that \"demands your attention\". While the fine detail the animators went into with the visuals has received much praise, bland character designs have been noted as one of the series' flaws, though \"astute viewers may notice some rather interesting [...] differences between the various characters.\" The soundtrack has received much acclaim, not only for the background music and voice actor performances, but also the detail that went into the sound effects. The presentation of the storyline was well received, but it was acknowledged that not everyone would be interested in following the subtle clues in each episode and the \"artistically deliberate sense of confusion\". A common complaint, however, is that there are many loose ends, mainly relating to the backstory, leaving the series \"with more questions than answers\".\n\nFar less critiqued, the \"Boogiepop and Others\" film fares less well than its sequel. Whilst the characters and plot were well received, the special effects and costumes have been described as \"campy\", but \"par for the course of something of this level and budget\". The movie is, however, cited as being easier to watch, and is recommended to fans of the anime, so as to gain \"a complete understanding of the Boogiepop events\".\n\nThe \"Boogiepop and Others\" novel has received more favorable reviews, though these have mostly focused on the translation, which has been cited as \"a standard against which future Japanese novel translations are judged\". It has also received praise for ripping \"the rules of narrative wide open\", especially for how it allows the characters to grow on the reader. \"Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1\" continues receiving positive feedback for its easy-to-read style and excellent translation, as well as its use of atmosphere and characters. The main flaw, however, is the briefness of the title, which has clearly been used to set up the sequel.\n\n\"Boogiepop Doesn't Laugh\" has received generally favorable reviews, particularly for capturing some of the more complicated scenes better than the original light novel. This makes the plot easier to follow, and captures the urgency of the climactic battle. However, it has been noted that breaking the complicated plot of \"Boogiepop and Others\" into a multi-volume manga results in individually weak volumes. As with \"Boogiepop Phantom\", the character designs have been noted as \"lookalike and nondescript\", which can make some of the events difficult to follow. The art has also been described as \"washed out and dull\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5438720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438720", "title": "Brown Paper Bag Test", "text": "Brown Paper Bag Test\n\nThe Brown Paper Bag Test in African-American oral history was a form of racial discrimination practiced within the African-American community by comparing an individual's skin tone to the color of a brown paper bag. The test was allegedly used as a way to determine whether or not an individual could have certain privileges; only those with a skin color that matched or was lighter than a brown paper bag were allowed admission or membership privileges. The test was believed by many to be used in the 20th century by many African-American social institutions such as sororities, fraternities, and churches. The term is also used in reference to larger issues of class and social stratification within the African American population. Audrey Elisa Kerr has researched and documented the practice.\n\nPrivilege has long been associated with skin tone in the African-American community. \nThis is related to the enslavement of individuals based on race.\nMixed-race children of white fathers were sometimes given privileges ranging from more desirable work, apprenticeships or formal education, allocation of property, or even freedom from enslavement. African Americans \"contributed to colorism because they have benefited from the privilege of having a skin color closer to that of Whites and have embraced the notion that privilege comes with having light skin in America\". Lighter-skinned people of color were accorded certain social and economic advantages over darker-skinned people of color, even while suffering discrimination. According to Gordon, \"light-skinned blacks formed exclusive clubs\" after slavery was abolished in the United States. Some clubs were called \"Blue Vein Societies\", suggesting that if an individual's skin was light enough to show the blue cast of veins, they had more European ancestry (and, therefore, higher social standing.) Such discrimination was resented by African Americans with darker complexions. According to Henry Louis Gates Jr., in his book \"The Future of the Race\" (1996), the practice of the brown paper bag test may have originated in New Orleans, LA, where there was a substantial third class of free people of color dating from the French colonial era. The test was related to ideas of beauty, in which some people believed that lighter skin and more European features, in general, were more attractive.\n\nFrom 1900 until about 1950, \"paper bag parties\" are said to have taken place in neighborhoods of major American cities with a high concentration of African Americans. Many churches, fraternities, and nightclubs used the \"brown paper bag\" principle as a test for entrance. People at these organizations would take a brown paper bag and hold it against a person's skin. If a person was lighter than the bag, he or she was admitted. People whose skin was not lighter than a brown paper bag were denied entry.\n\nThere is, too, a curious color dynamic that persists in our culture. In fact, New Orleans invented the brown paper bag party — usually at a gathering in a home — where anyone darker than the bag attached to the door was denied entrance. The brown bag criterion survives as a metaphor for how the black cultural elite quite literally establishes caste along color lines within black life. On my many trips to New Orleans, whether to lecture at one of its universities or colleges, to preach from one of its pulpits, or to speak at an empowerment seminar during the annual Essence Music Festival, I have observed color politics at work among black folk. The cruel color code has to be defeated by our love for one another. —Michael Eric Dyson, excerpt from \"Come Hell or High Water\".\n\nHistorically black colleges and universities used the brown paper bag test as a way to critique candidates for admission. A person's skin tone could affect whether they were admitted to a top school. For instance, Audrey Elisa Kerr refers to colleges requiring applicants to send personal photos. Kerr mentioned how this practice took place at a popular HBCU, Howard University. Dr. Arnold relayed to Kerr a story concerning young women at Howard. Dr. Arnold had heard colorism was a factor when it came to admission to Howard. Discrimination was also practiced by fraternities and sororities, whose members self-selected others like themselves, generally those reflecting partial European ancestry. Multi-racial people who had been free before the American Civil War attempted to distinguish themselves from the mass of freedmen after the war, who appeared to be mostly of African descent and had been confined to slavery.\n\nThe offspring of African men and white women were often born into freedom, because of their mothers' legal status of slave vs. free, regardless of color. A law, established in Virginia and other colonies in the 17th century, dictated that the legal status of these children would be determined by that of their mothers, rather than by their father's, in opposition to the tradition of English common law. These free descendants became well-established, with descendants moving to frontier regions of Virginia, North Carolina and west as areas opened up. Some prominent Americans were descendants of these early free families, for instance, Ralph Bunche, who served as ambassador to the United Nations.\n\nAs early as the 18th century, travelers remarked on the variety of color and features seen in slaves in Virginia, as European ancestry was obvious. Light-skinned slaves, some of whom were descendants of masters and their sons, were sometimes given better treatment on plantations, with domestic jobs inside the master's house, including as companions or maids to his legal children. Some of them were educated, or at least allowed to learn to read. Occasionally the master may have arranged for an apprenticeship for a mixed-race son and freed him upon its completion, especially in the first two decades after the American Revolution, when numerous slaves were freed in the Upper South. In this region, from the Revolution to 1810, the percentage of people of color who were free increased from 1 to more than 10 percent. By 1810, 75% of blacks in Delaware were free.\n\nNewly imported Africans and African Americans with less visible European ancestry were used in hard field labor, and abuse was more frequent in the fields. As tensions concerning slave uprisings rose in the 19th century, slave states imposed more restrictions, including prohibitions on educating slaves and on slaves' movements. These slaves could be punished for trying to learn to read and write.\n\nIn Louisiana especially, Creoles of color had long comprised a third class during the years of slavery. They had achieved a high level of literacy and sophistication under the French and Spanish rule, becoming educated, taking the names of white fathers or lovers, and often receiving property from the white men involved with their families. Many became artisans, property owners, and sometimes slaveholders themselves. Unlike in the Upper South, where free African Americans varied widely in appearance, free people of color in New Orleans and the Deep South tended to be light-skinned due to generations of intermarriage with people of European ancestry. After the United States negotiated the Louisiana Purchase, more Americans settled in New Orleans, bringing with them their binary approach to society, in which each person was classified only as black or white. They began to curtail the privileges of Creoles of color.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16963069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16963069", "title": "Charlottenborg Palace", "text": "Charlottenborg Palace\n\nCharlottenborg Palace () is a large town mansion located on the corner of Kongens Nytorv and Nyhavn in Copenhagen, Denmark. Originally built as a residence for Ulrik Frederik Gyldenløve, it has served as the base of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts since its foundation in 1754. Today it also houses Kunsthal Charlottenborg, an institution for contemporary art, and Danmarks Kunstbibliotek, the Royal Art Library.\n\nThe site was donated by King Christian V to his half brother Ulrik Frederik Gyldenløve on 22 March 1669 in connection with the establishment of Kongens Nytorv. Gyldenløve built his new mansion from 1672 to 1683 as the first building on the new square.\n\nThe main wing and two lateral wings were built from 1672 to 1677, probably under the architect Ewert Janssen. In 1783 mansion was extended with a rear, fourth wing was designed by Lambert van Haven . The bricks used were brought from Kalø Castle in Jutland which Gyldenløve owned and had pulled down.\n\nIn his old age, the large mansion became too big for Gyldenløve who sold it to the dowager queen Charlotte Amalie in 1700, hence the name. Gyldenløve built a new, smaller mansion on the corner of Bredgade and Dronningens Tværgade which became known as \"Gyldenløve's little mansion\", now Moltke's Mansion, after a later owner, where he lived until his death in 1705.\n\nAfter King Christian V´s death in 1699 the Queen Mother, Charlotte Amalie, purchased the Palace for 50,000 Danish crowns and it was renamed Charlottenborg Palace. In 1714, when the Queen Downer died, the place was passed to King Christian VI. Renovations began in 1736-1737, and its use and users shifted for a period of time. A small theater was constructed and used for various concerts, operas and theatrical performances. The Palace Garden contained the Botanical Garden between 1778 - 1872.\n\nIn 1701, the old Academy of Arts began its activities in the Palace. The small school slowly grew and was finally formally inaugurated in the Charlottenborg Palace on March 31, 1754. In 1787, the ownership of the Palace was transferred to The Royal Danish Academy of Art. The Academy still occupies the Palace.\n\nCharlottenborg is a four-winged, three-storey building designed in the Dutch Baroque style but also with some Italian influence. The main wing towards the square has a central risalit flanked by two more pronounced, two-bay corner risalit. All three are topped by balustrades. The central risalit is decorated with Corinthian pilasters and a Tuscan/Doric portal with balcony The facade has sandstone decorations and window pediments.\n\nThe lower rear wing consists of three pavilions. The central pavilion has a Tuscan arcade below, niches with busts above, and a lantern on the copper-covered roof.\n\nThe floor plan is remniscient of French castles. It has a piano nobile with a banguet hall above the main entrance, with access to the balcony, a ground floor with lower ceilings, and a second floors for servants with even lower ones. Ths arrangement became characteristic of mansions and upper-class town houses in the entire 18th century.\n\nIn the rear wing, above the arcade, there is a well-preserved domed Baroque room with a splendid stucco ceiling.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55823239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55823239", "title": "Cinema of the Caribbean", "text": "Cinema of the Caribbean\n\nThe Cinema of the Caribbean refers to the film industry in the Caribbean. Compared to earlier times, a significant amount of filmmaking occurred in the Caribbean in the 1980s and onward. Prior to this time, filmmaking in the Caribbean was relatively minor. For example, in the 1970s, only a few films were made in Guadeloupe, Haiti and Jamaica. In the 1970s and prior to this time, the Caribbean generally lacked an infrastructure for filmmaking and film distribution.\n\nIn contemporary times, the cinema of the Caribbean has been described as an \"expanded and ever-expanding field.\" It has been suggested that it can be challenging to document all of the full-length, feature films that have been produced in the Caribbean, because each country has its own filmmaking industry that is separate from the other countries' industries.\n\n\"The Sweetest Mango\" is a 2001 film that was the first full-length feature film made in Antigua and Barbuda.\n\nCinema arrived in Cuba at the beginning of the 20th century. Before the Cuban Revolution of 1959, about 80 full-length films were produced in Cuba. Most of these films were melodramas.\n\n\"Blinded\" is a 2006 film that was the first full-length film entirely produced in Grenada.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2015, an average of six full length feature films were produced in Trinidad and Tobago. The Trinidad and Tobago Film Festival was founded in 2005 and occurs annually in the country. It focuses specifically upon Caribbean cinema, and also screens films from other areas of the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765652", "title": "Cloisonné", "text": "Cloisonné\n\nCloisonné () is an ancient technique for decorating metalwork objects. In recent centuries, vitreous enamel has been used, and inlays of cut gemstones, glass and other materials were also used during older periods. The resulting objects can also be called \"cloisonné\". The decoration is formed by first adding compartments (\"cloisons\" in French) to the metal object by soldering or affixing silver or gold wires or thin strips placed on their edges. These remain visible in the finished piece, separating the different compartments of the enamel or inlays, which are often of several colors. Cloisonné enamel objects are worked on with enamel powder made into a paste, which then needs to be fired in a kiln.\n\nIn antiquity, the cloisonné technique was mostly used for jewellery and small fittings for clothes, weapons or similar small objects decorated with geometric or schematic designs, with thick cloison walls. In the Byzantine Empire techniques using thinner wires were developed to allow more pictorial images to be produced, mostly used for religious images and jewellery, and by then always using enamel. By the 14th century this enamel technique had spread to China, where it was soon used for much larger vessels such as bowls and vases; the technique remains common in China to the present day, and cloisonné enamel objects using Chinese-derived styles were produced in the West from the 18th century.\n\nCloisonné first developed in the jewellery of the ancient Near East, typically in very small pieces such as rings, with thin wire forming the cloisons. In the jewellery of ancient Egypt, including the pectoral jewels of the Pharaohs, thicker strips form the cloisons, which remain small. In Egypt gemstones and enamel-like materials sometimes called \"glass-paste\" were both used. The Byzantines perfected a unique form of cloisonné icons. Byzantine enamel spread to surrounding cultures and a particular type, often known as garnet cloisonné is widely found in the Migration Period art of the \"barbarian\" peoples of Europe, who used gemstones, especially red garnets, as well as glass and enamel, with small thick-walled cloisons. Red garnets and gold made an attractive contrast of colours, and for Christians the garnet was a symbol of Christ. This type is now thought to have originated in the Late Antique Eastern Roman Empire and to have initially reached the Migration peoples as diplomatic gifts of objects probably made in Constantinople, then copied by their own goldsmiths. Glass-paste cloisonné was made in the same periods with similar results – compare the gold Anglo-Saxon fitting with garnets (right) and the Visigothic brooch with glass-paste in the gallery. Thick ribbons of gold were soldered to the base of the sunken area to be decorated to make the compartments, before adding the stones or paste. Sometimes compartments filled with the different materials of cut stones or glass and enamel are mixed to ornament the same object, as in the Sutton Hoo purse-lid. In the Byzantine world the technique was developed into the thin-wire style suitable only for enamel described below, which was imitated in Europe from about Carolingian period onwards.\n\nThe earliest surviving cloisonné pieces are rings in graves from 12th century BC Cyprus, using very thin wire. Subsequently, enamel was just one of the fillings used for the small, thick-walled cloisons of the Late Antique and Migration Period style described above. From about the 8th century, Byzantine art began again to use much thinner wire more freely to allow much more complex designs to be used, with larger and less geometric compartments, which was only possible using enamel. These were still on relatively small objects, although numbers of plaques could be set into larger objects, such as the Pala d'Oro, the altarpiece in Saint Mark's Cathedral, Venice. Some objects combined thick and thin cloisons for varied effect. The designs often (as at right) contained a generous background of plain gold, as in contemporary Byzantine mosaics. The area to be enamelled was stamped to create the main depression, pricked to help the enamel adhere, and the cloisons added.\n\nTwo different techniques in Byzantine and European cloisonné enamel are distinguished, for which the German names are still typically used in English. The earliest is the Vollschmelz (\"full\" enamel, literally \"full melt\") technique where the whole of a gold base plate is to be covered in enamel. The edges of the plate are turned up to form a reservoir, and gold wires are soldered in place to form the \"cloisons\". The enamel design therefore covers the whole plate. In the Senkschmelz (\"sunk\" enamel, literally \"sunk melt\") technique the parts of the base plate to hold the design are hammered down, leaving a surrounding gold background, as also seen in contemporary Byzantine icons and mosaics with gold glass backgrounds, and the saint illustrated here. The wires and enamels are then added as before. The outline of the design will be apparent on the reverse of the base plate. The transition between the two techniques occurs around 900 in Byzantine enamel, and 1000 in the West, though with important earlier examples. The plaques with apostles of around the latter date on the Holy Crown of Hungary show a unique transitional phase, where the base plaque has hammered recesses for the design, as in \"senkschmelz\" work, but the enamel covers the whole plaque except for thick outlines around the figures and inscriptions, as in the \"vollschmelz\" technique (see the gallery below for examples of this technique and \"vollschmelz\" work). Some 10th-century pieces achieve a \"senkschmelz\" effect by using two plates superimposed on each other, the upper one with the design outline cut out and the lower one left plain. \nFrom Byzantium or the Islamic world the technique reached China in the 13–14th centuries; the first written reference is in a book of 1388, where it is called \"Dashi ware\". No Chinese pieces clearly from the 14th century are known, the earliest datable pieces being from the reign of the Xuande Emperor (1425–35), which however show a full use of Chinese styles suggesting considerable experience in the technique. It was initially regarded with suspicion by Chinese connoisseurs, firstly as being foreign, and secondly as appealing to feminine taste. However, by the beginning of the 18th century the Kangxi Emperor had a cloisonné workshop among the many Imperial factories. The most elaborate and highly valued Chinese pieces are from the early Ming Dynasty, especially the reigns of the Xuande Emperor and Jingtai Emperor (1450–57), although 19th century or modern pieces are far more common. The Chinese industry seems to have benefited from a number of skilled Byzantine refugees fleeing the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, although based on the name alone, it is far more likely China obtained knowledge of the technique from the middle east. In much Chinese cloisonné blue is usually the predominant colour, and the Chinese name for the technique, \"jingtailan\" (\"Jingtai blue ware\"), refers to this, and the Jingtai Emperor. Quality began to decline in the 19th century. Initially heavy bronze or brass bodies were used, and the wires soldered, but later much lighter copper vessels were used, and the wire glued on before firing. The enamels compositions and the pigments change with time.\n\nIn Byzantine pieces, and even more in Chinese work, the wire by no means always encloses a separate color of enamel. Sometime a wire is used just for decorative effect, stopping in the middle of a field of enamel, and sometimes the boundary between two enamel colors is not marked by a wire. In the Byzantine plaque at right the first feature may be seen in the top wire on the saint's black sleeve, and the second in the white of his eyes and collar. Both are also seen in the Chinese bowl illustrated at top right.\n\nChinese cloisonné is amongst the best known enamel cloisonné in the world.\n\nThe Japanese also produced large quantities from the mid-19th century, of very high technical quality. In Japan cloisonné enamels are known as \"shippō-yaki\" (七宝焼). Early centres of cloisonné were Nagoya during the Owari Domain. Companies of renown were the Ando Cloisonné Company. Later centres of renown were Edo and Kyoto. In Kyoto Namikawa became one of the leading companies of Japanese cloisonné. The Namikawa Yasuyuki Cloisonné Museum is specifically dedicated to it.\n\nRussian cloisonné from the Tsarist era is also highly prized by collectors, especially from the House of Fabergé or Khlebnikov, and the French and other nations have produced small quantities. Chinese cloisonné is sometimes confused with Canton enamel, a similar type of enamel work that is painted on freehand and does not use partitions to hold the colors separate.\n\nIn medieval Western Europe cloisonné enamel technique was gradually overtaken by the rise of champlevé enamel, where the spaces for the enamel to fill are created by making recesses (using various methods) into the base object, rather than building up compartments from it, as in cloisonné. Later techniques were evolved that allowed the enamel to be painted onto a flat background without running. Plique-à-jour is a related enameling technique which uses clear enamels and no metal backplate, producing an object that has the appearance of a miniature stained glass object - in effect cloisonné with no backing. Plique-a'-jour is usually created on a base of mica or thin copper which is subsequently peeled off (mica) or etched away with acid (copper).\n\nOther ways of using the technique have been developed, but are of minor importance. In 19th century Japan it was used on pottery vessels with ceramic glazes, and it has been used with lacquer and modern acrylic fillings for the cloisons. A version of cloisonné technique is often used for lapel badges, logo badges for many objects such as cars, including BMW models, and other applications, though in these the metal base is normally cast with the compartments in place, so the use of the term cloisonne', though common, is questionable. That technique is correctly referred by goldsmiths, metalsmiths and enamellists as champlevé.\n\nA large collection of 150 Chinese cloisonné pieces is at the G.W. Vincent Smith Art Museum in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nFirst the object to be decorated is made or obtained; this will normally be made by different craftspeople. The metal usually used for making the body is copper, since it is cheap, light and easily hammered and stretched, but gold, silver or other metals may be used. Cloisonné wire is made from fine silver or fine gold and is usually about .010 x .040 inches in cross section. It is bent into shapes that define the colored areas. The bends are all done at right angles, so that the wire does not curve up. This is done with small pliers, tweezers, and custom-made jigs. The cloisonné wire pattern may consist of several intricately constructed wire patterns that fit together into a larger design. Solder can be used to join the wires, but this causes the enamel to discolour and form bubbles later on. Most existing Byzantine enamels have soldered cloisons, however the use of solder to adhere the cloison wires has fallen out of favor due to its difficulty, with the exception of some \"purist contemporary enamellists\" who create fine watch faces and high quality very expensive jewelry. Instead of soldering the cloisons to the base metal, the base metal is fired with a thin layer of clear enamel. The cloisonné wire is glued to the enamel surface with gum tragacanth. When the gum has dried, the piece is fired again to fuse the cloisonné wire to the clear enamel. The gum burns off, leaving no residue.\n\nVitreous enamels in the different colors are ground to fine powders in an agate or porcelain mortar and pestle, then washed to remove the impurities that would discolor the fired enamel. The enamel is made from silica, niter, and lead oxide to which metallic oxides are added for coloring. These ingredients are melted together, forming a glassy frit which is ground again before application. Each color of enamel is prepared this way before it is used and then mixed with a very dilute solution of gum tragacanth. Using fine spatulas, brushes or droppers, the enameler places the fine colored powder into each cloison. The piece is left to dry completely before firing, which is done by putting the article, with its enamel fillings, in a kiln. The enamel in the cloisons will sink down a lot after firing, due to melting and shrinkage of the granular nature of the glass powder, much as sugar melting in an oven. This process is repeated until all cloisons are filled to the top of the wire edge.\n\nThree styles of cloisonné are most often seen: concave, convex, and flat. The finishing method determines this final appearance. With concave cloisonné the cloisons are not completely filled. Capillary action causes the enamel surface to curve up against the cloisonné wire when the enamel is molten, producing a concave appearance. Convex cloissoné is produced by overfilling each cloison, at the last firing. This gives each color area the appearance of slightly rounded mounds. Flat cloisonné is the most common. After all the cloisons are filled the enamel is ground down to a smooth surface with lapidary equipment, using the same techniques as are used for polishing cabochon stones. The top of the cloisonné wire is polished so it is flush with the enamel and has a bright lustre. Some cloisonné wire is electroplated with a thin film of gold, which will not tarnish as silver does.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27458720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27458720", "title": "Collaborative consumption", "text": "Collaborative consumption\n\nCollaborative consumption encompasses the sharing economy. Collaborative consumption can be defined as the set of resource circulation systems, which enable consumers to both \"obtain\" and \"provide\", temporarily or permanently, valuable resources or services through direct interaction with other consumers or through a mediator. Collaborative consumption is not new; it has always existed (e.g. in the form of flea markets, swap meets, garage sales, car boot sales, and second-hand shops).\n\nThe first detailed explanation of collaborative consumption in the modern era was contained in a paper from Marcus Felson and Joe L. Spaeth in 1978 . It has regained a new impetus through information technology, especially Web 2.0, mobile technology and social media.\n\nCollaborative consumption stands in sharp contrast with the notion of conventional consumption. Conventional consumption involves passive consumers who cannot or are not given the capacity to provide any resource or service. In contrast, collaborative consumption involves not mere \"consumers\" but \"obtainers\", who do not only \"obtain\" but also \"provide\" resources to others (e.g. consumers, organizations, governments). Overall, consumers' capacity to switch roles from \"provider\" to \"obtainer\" and from \"obtainer\" to \"provider\", in a given resource distribution system, constitutes the key distinguishing criteria between conventional consumption and collaborative consumption.\n\nThe sharing economy is built on the sharing of underused assets, both tangible and intangible. If people start sharing these underused resources or services, this will decrease not only our physical waste, but also our waste of resources.\n\nThere are broadly two forms of collaborative consumption:\n(1) Mutualization or access systems: resource distribution systems in which individuals may provide and obtain temporary access to resources, either free or for a fee. Marketer-managed access schemes (e.g. Car2Go, Zipcar, Bixi) do not allow individuals to source resources, and are therefore not mutualization systems, whereas peer-to-peer renting sites or even toy-lending libraries, which allow consumers to provide resources, are.\n(2) Redistribution systems: resource distribution systems in which individuals may provide and obtain resources permanently, either free or for a fee.\nFocusing on redistribution systems only, the Canadian-based Kijiji Secondhand Economy Index of 2016, estimated that about 85% of consumers acquired or disposed of pre-owned goods through second-hand marketplaces (secondhand purchase and resale), donation, or barter, through either online or offline exchange channels. According to the Kijiji Secondhand Economy Index of 2015, the Canadian second-hand market, alone, was estimated at 230 billion dollars.\nBesides, for-profit mutualization platforms, commonly referred to as \"Commercial Peer-to-peer Mutualization Systems\" (CPMS) or, more colloquially, the sharing economy, represented a global market worth 15 billion dollars, in 2014; 29 billion dollars, in 2015; and are expected to reach 335 billion dollars by 2025.\n\nRachel Botsman, author of \"What's Mine Is Yours: The Rise of Collaborative Consumption\", and researcher of collaborative consumption defines collaborative consumption-also known as shared consumption-as \"traditional sharing, bartering, lending, trading, renting, gifting, and swapping redefined through technology and peer communities.\" She states that we are reinventing \"not just what we consume – but how we consume.\" Botsman uses the example of a power drill to make her case for collaborative consumption, stating how power drills are inherently underused since \"what [is needed] is the hole, not the drill\" and so instead we should share goods such as these. Cars cost at least 8000 dollars per year to run, even though they sit parked roughly 96 percent of the time.\n\nBotsman defines the three systems that make up collaborative consumption. The first is distribution markets where services are used to match haves and wants so that personal unused assets can be redistributed to places where they will be put to better use. Collaborative lifestyles allow people to share resources like money, skills, and time, this is best explained as the sharing of intangible resources. Product service systems provide the benefits of a product without having to own it outright, instead of buying products that are used to fulfill specific purposes, they can be shared. These different systems are bringing about change in society, by providing new employment opportunities, including ways for people to earn money peer-to-peer, and decreasing the ecological impact on the environment.\n\nCollaborative consumption is challenging to business scholars and practitioners alike because, as a concept, it induces a two-sided consumer role which goes beyond the classic notion of a buyer/consumer, who typically has no input in the production or distribution process. Companies have traditionally sold products and services to consumers, they now start pulling on their resources too through co-creation or prosumption. According to Scaraboto, this means that individuals are able to \"switch roles, engage in embedded entrepreneurship and collaborate to produce and access resources\". Collaborative consumption is characterized by consumers' capacity of being both \"providers\" and \"obtainers\" of resources, in a given \"resource circulation system\". A collaborative consumption systems means therefore a resource circulation system in which the individual is not only a mere \"consumer\" but also an obtainer who has the opportunity to endorse, if wanted or needed, a \"provider\" role (e.g. Kijiji, Craigslist, eBay), as follows:\n\n\nThrough CC, consumers invite themselves in the value creation process, not as formal workers, employees or suppliers, but as informal suppliers (i.e. providers), in order to successfully reconcile their personal interests. In the meantime, organizations tap into the sphere of private assets and skills, as formal organizations and not as family, friends, or acquaintances, to make profits or reach other objectives. The practices in which obtainers and providers may engage are therefore classified into:\n\n\nConsumers may exchange resources and services directly with or without the support of an \"intermediary\", which is an entity that facilitates the exchange between obtainer and provider (e.g. Kijiji, Freecycle, Yerdle). Consumers set the terms and conditions of the exchange, and this refers to pure collaboration. There are also other types of third-parties which are more heavily involved in the consumer-to-consumer relationship. These are called \"mediators\". They determine the terms and conditions of the exchange between consumers and may typically take a predetermined proportion of the amount of value being exchanged. Examples include second-hand stores to which consumers may donate or resell goods that are then subsequently resold to other consumers. Some platforms such as Uber, Airbnb, TaskRabbit or Lending Club are also included. The intervention of mediators in a peer-to-peer relationship signals sourcing collaboration and its corollary trading collaboration.\n\nCollaborative consumption can be best conceived in a perspective of \"resource circulation system\" incurring different levels of collaborative intensity, namely: (1) pure collaboration (C2C, or Consumer-to-Consumer); (2) sourcing collaboration (C2O, or Consumer-to-Organization); and (3) trading collaboration (O2C, or Organization-to-Consumer). The organization may be a for-profit or a not-for-profit:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41360561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41360561", "title": "Constantinian bronzes", "text": "Constantinian bronzes\n\nThe Constantinian bronzes were a series of bronze coins introduced in the Roman Empire in the middle of the 4th century. The specific denominations are unclear and debated by historians and numismatists. They are referred to as AE1, AE2, AE3, and AE4, with the former being the largest (near 27 mm) and the latter the smallest (averaging 15 mm) in diameter:\n\nIn November 2013, the largest hoard of Constantinian bronze coins was discovered in Devon, England. The Seaton Down Hoard consists of 22,000 coins, mostly Constantinian bronzes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322", "title": "Creation myth", "text": "Creation myth\n\nA creation myth (or cosmogonic myth) is a symbolic narrative of how the world began and how people first came to inhabit it. While in popular usage the term \"myth\" often refers to false or fanciful stories, members of cultures often ascribe varying degrees of truth to their creation myths. In the society in which it is told, a creation myth is usually regarded as conveying profound truths, metaphorically, symbolically and sometimes in a historical or literal sense. They are commonly, although not always, considered cosmogonical myths – that is, they describe the ordering of the cosmos from a state of chaos or amorphousness.\n\nCreation myths often share a number of features. They often are considered sacred accounts and can be found in nearly all known religious traditions. They are all stories with a plot and characters who are either deities, human-like figures, or animals, who often speak and transform easily. They are often set in a dim and nonspecific past that historian of religion Mircea Eliade termed \"in illo tempore\" (\"at that time\"). Creation myths address questions deeply meaningful to the society that shares them, revealing their central worldview and the framework for the self-identity of the culture and individual in a universal context.\n\nCreation myths develop in oral traditions and therefore typically have multiple versions; found throughout human culture, they are the most common form of myth.\n\nCreation myth definitions from modern references:\n\nReligion professor Mircea Eliade defined the word \"myth\" in terms of creation: \n\nMyth narrates a sacred history; it relates an event that took place in primordial Time, the fabled time of the \"beginnings.\" In other words, myth tells how, through the deeds of Supernatural Beings, a reality came into existence, be it the whole of reality, the Cosmos, or only a fragment of reality – an island, a species of plant, a particular kind of human behavior, an institution.\n\nAll creation myths are in one sense etiological because they attempt to explain how the world was formed and where humanity came from. Myths attempt to explain the unknown and sometimes teach a lesson.\n\nEthnologists and anthropologists who study these myths say that in the modern context theologians try to discern humanity's meaning from revealed truths and scientists investigate cosmology with the tools of empiricism and rationality, but creation myths define human reality in very different terms. In the past historians of religion and other students of myth thought of them as forms of primitive or early-stage science or religion and analyzed them in a literal or logical sense. Today, however, they are seen as symbolic narratives which must be understood in terms of their own cultural context. Charles Long writes, \"The beings referred to in the myth – gods, animals, plants – are forms of power grasped existentially. The myths should not be understood as attempts to work out a rational explanation of deity.\"\n\nWhile creation myths are not literal explications they do serve to define an orientation of humanity in the world in terms of a birth story. They are the basis of a worldview that reaffirms and guides how people relate to the natural world, to any assumed spiritual world, and to each other. The creation myth acts as a cornerstone for distinguishing primary reality from relative reality, the origin and nature of being from non-being. In this sense they serve as a philosophy of life but one expressed and conveyed through symbol rather than systematic reason. And in this sense they go beyond etiological myths which mean to explain specific features in religious rites, natural phenomena or cultural life. Creation myths also help to orient human beings in the world, giving them a sense of their place in the world and the regard that they must have for humans and nature.\n\nHistorian David Christian has summarised issues common to multiple creation myths:\n\nEach beginning seems to presuppose an earlier beginning. ... Instead of meeting a single starting point, we encounter an infinity of them, each of which poses the same problem. ... There are no entirely satisfactory solutions to this dilemma. What we have to find is not a solution but some way of dealing with the mystery ... And we have to do so using words. The words we reach for, from \"God\" to \"gravity\", are inadequate to the task. So we have to use language poetically or symbolically; and such language, whether used by a scientist, a poet, or a shaman, can easily be misunderstood.\nMythologists have applied various schemes to classify creation myths found throughout human cultures. Eliade and his colleague Charles Long developed a classification based on some common motifs that reappear in stories the world over. The classification identifies five basic types:\n\nMarta Weigle further developed and refined this typology to highlight nine themes, adding elements such as \"deus faber\", a creation crafted by a deity, creation from the work of two creators working together or against each other, creation from sacrifice and creation from division/conjugation, accretion/conjunction, or secretion.\n\nAn alternative system based on six recurring narrative themes was designed by Raymond Van Over:\n\nThe idea that God created the world out of nothing – \"ex nihilo\" – is central today to Judaism, Christianity and Islam, and the medieval Jewish philosopher Maimonides felt it was the only concept that the three religions shared. Nonetheless, the concept is not found in the entire Hebrew Bible. The authors of Genesis 1 were concerned not with the origins of matter (the material which God formed into the habitable cosmos), but with assigning roles so that the Cosmos should function. In the early 2nd century AD, early Christian scholars were beginning to see a tension between the idea of world-formation and the omnipotence of God, and by the beginning of the 3rd century creation \"ex nihilo\" had become a fundamental tenet of Christian theology.\n\n\"Ex nihilo\" creation is found in creation stories from ancient Egypt, the Rig Veda, and many animistic cultures in Africa, Asia, Oceania and North America. The Debate between sheep and grain is an example of an even earlier form of \"ex nihilo\" creation myth from ancient Sumer. In most of these stories the world is brought into being by the speech, dream, breath, or pure thought of a creator but creation ex nihilo may also take place through a creator's bodily secretions.\n\nThe literal translation of the phrase \"ex nihilo\" is \"from nothing\" but in many creation myths the line is blurred whether the creative act would be better classified as a creation \"ex nihilo\" or creation from chaos. In \"ex nihilo\" creation myths the potential and the substance of creation springs from within the creator. Such a creator may or may not be existing in physical surroundings such as darkness or water, but does not create the world from them, whereas in creation from chaos the substance used for creation is pre-existing within the unformed void.\n\nIn creation from chaos myth, initially there is nothing but a formless, shapeless expanse. In these stories the word \"chaos\" means \"disorder\", and this formless expanse, which is also sometimes called a void or an abyss, contains the material with which the created world will be made. Chaos may be described as having the consistency of vapor or water, dimensionless, and sometimes salty or muddy. These myths associate chaos with evil and oblivion, in contrast to \"order\" (\"cosmos\") which is the good. The act of creation is the bringing of order from disorder, and in many of these cultures it is believed that at some point the forces preserving order and form will weaken and the world will once again be engulfed into the abyss. One example is the Genesis creation myth from the first chapter of the Book of Genesis.\n\nThere are two types of world parent myths, both describing a separation or splitting of a primeval entity, the world parent or parents. One form describes the primeval state as an eternal union of two parents, and the creation takes place when the two are pulled apart. The two parents are commonly identified as Sky (usually male) and Earth (usually female) who in the primeval state were so tightly bound to each other that no offspring could emerge. These myths often depict creation as the result of a sexual union, and serve as genealogical record of the deities born from it.\n\nIn the second form of world parent myth, creation itself springs from dismembered parts of the body of the primeval being. Often in these stories the limbs, hair, blood, bones or organs of the primeval being are somehow severed or sacrificed to transform into sky, earth, animal or plant life, and other worldly features. These myths tend to emphasize creative forces as animistic in nature rather than sexual, and depict the sacred as the elemental and integral component of the natural world. One example of this is the Norse creation myth described in \"Gylfaginning\" exactly in the poem Völuspá.\n\nIn emergence myths humanity emerges from another world into the one they currently inhabit. The previous world is often considered the womb of the earth mother, and the process of emergence is likened to the act of giving birth. The role of midwife is usually played by a female deity, like the spider woman of several mythologies of Indigenous peoples in the Americas. Male characters rarely figure into these stories, and scholars often consider them in counterpoint to male-oriented creation myths, like those of the \"ex nihilo\" variety.\nEmergence myths commonly describe the creation of people and/or supernatural beings as a staged ascent or metamorphosis from nascent forms through a series of subterranean worlds to arrive at their current place and form. Often the passage from one world or stage to the next is impelled by inner forces, a process of germination or gestation from earlier, embryonic forms. The genre is most commonly found in Native American cultures where the myths frequently link the final emergence of people from a hole opening to the underworld to stories about their subsequent migrations and eventual settlement in their current homelands.\n\nThe earth-diver is a common character in various traditional creation myths. In these stories a supreme being usually sends an animal into the primal waters to find bits of sand or mud with which to build habitable land. Some scholars interpret these myths psychologically while others interpret them cosmogonically. In both cases emphasis is placed on beginnings emanating from the depths. Earth-diver myths are common in Native American folklore but can be found among the Chukchi and Yukaghir, the Tatars and many Finno-Ugrian traditions. The pattern of distribution of these stories suggest they have a common origin in the eastern Asiatic coastal region, spreading as peoples migrated west into Siberia and east to the North American continent.\n\nCharacteristic of many Native American myths, earth-diver creation stories begin as beings and potential forms linger asleep or suspended in the primordial realm. The earth-diver is among the first of them to awaken and lay the necessary groundwork by building suitable lands where the coming creation will be able to live. In many cases, these stories will describe a series of failed attempts to make land before the solution is found.\n\n"}
{"id": "49333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49333", "title": "Cultural bias", "text": "Cultural bias\n\nCultural bias is the phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture. The phenomenon is sometimes considered a problem central to social and human sciences, such as economics, psychology, anthropology, and sociology. Some practitioners of the aforementioned fields have attempted to develop methods and theories to compensate for or eliminate cultural bias.\n\nCultural bias occurs when people of a culture make assumptions about conventions, including conventions of language, notation, proof and evidence. They are then accused of mistaking these assumptions for laws of logic or nature. Numerous such biases exist, concerning cultural norms for color, mate selection, concepts of justice, linguistic and logical validity, the acceptability of evidence, and taboos.\n\nCultural bias has no a priori definition. Instead, its presence is inferred from differential performance of socioracial (e.g., Blacks, Whites), ethnic (e.g., Latinos/Latinas, Anglos), or national groups (e.g., U.S. Americans, Japanese) on measures of psychological constructs such as cognitive abilities, knowledge or skills (CAKS), or symptoms of psychopathology (e.g., depression). Historically, the term grew out of efforts to explain between‐group score differences on CAKS tests primarily of African American and Latino/Latina American test takers relative to their White American counterparts and concerns that test scores should not be interpreted in the same manner across these groups. Although the concept of cultural bias in testing and assessment also pertains to score differences and potential misdiagnoses with respect to a broader range of psychological concepts, particularly in applied psychology and other social and behavioral sciences, this aspect of cultural bias has received less attention in the relevant literature.\n\nCultural bias in psychological testing refers to the standardized psychological tests that are conducted to determine the level of intelligence among the test-takers. Limitations of such verbal or non-verbal intelligence tests have been observed since their introduction. However, the limitations they put forth, due to their particular culture-friendliness, has been realized much later. Many tests have been objected to, as they produced poor results for the ethnic or racial minorities (students), as compared to the racial majorities. The problem lies not with the test-taker, but with the test itself. As discussed above, the learning environment, the questions posed or situations given in the test may be familiar and strange at the same time to students from different backgrounds.\n\nCultural bias in economic exchange is often overlooked. A study done at the Northwestern University suggests that the cultural perception that two countries have of each other plays a large factor in the economic activity between them. This study suggests that low bilaterial trust between two countries will result in less trade, less portfolio investment, and less direct investment. This effect is amplified for goods, as they are more trust intensive.\n\nThe concept of culture theory in anthropology explains that cultural bias is a critical piece of human group formation.\n\nIt is thought that societies with conflicting beliefs will more likely have cultural bias as it is dependent on the group's standing in society, where the social constructions affect how a problem is produced. One example of cultural bias within the context of sociology can be seen in a study done at the University of California by Jane R. Mercer of how test \"validity\", \"bias\", and \"fairness\" in different cultural belief systems affect one's future in a pluralistic society. A definition of the cultural bias was given as \"the extent that the test contains cultural content that is generally peculiar to the members of one group but not to the members of another group\", which leads to a belief that \"the internal structure of the test will differ for different cultural groups\". In addition, the different types of errors made on culture-biased tests are dependent on different cultural groups. This idea progressed to the conclusion that a non-cultural-test will represent the ability of a population as intended and will not reflect the abilities of a group that is not represented.\n\nCultural bias may also arise in historical scholarship, when the standards, assumptions and conventions of the historian's own era are anachronistically used to report and assess events of the past. This tendency is sometimes known as presentism, and is regarded by many historians as a fault to be avoided. Arthur Marwick has argued that \"a grasp of the fact that past societies are very different from our own, and ... very difficult to get to know\" is an essential and fundamental skill of the professional historian; and that \"anachronism is still one of the most obvious faults when the unqualified (those expert in other disciplines, perhaps) attempt to do history\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12593785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12593785", "title": "Culture change", "text": "Culture change\n\nCulture change is a term used in public policy making that emphasizes the influence of cultural capital on individual and community behavior. It has been sometimes called repositioning of culture, which means the reconstruction of the cultural concept of a society. It places stress on the social and cultural capital determinants of decision making and the manner in which these interact with other factors like the availability of information or the financial incentives facing individuals to drive behavior.\n\nThese cultural capital influences include the role of parenting, families and close associates; organizations such as schools and workplaces; communities and neighborhoods; and wider social influences such as the media. It is argued that this cultural capital manifests into specific values, attitudes or social norms which in turn guide the behavioral \"intentions\" that individuals adopt in regard to particular decisions or courses of action. These behavioral intentions interact with other factors driving behavior such as financial incentives, regulation and legislation, or levels of information, to drive actual behavior and ultimately feed back into underlying cultural capital.\n\nIn general, cultural stereotypes present great resistance to change and to their own redefinition. Culture, often appears fixed to the observer at any one point in time because cultural mutations occur incrementally. Cultural change is a long-term process. Policymakers need to make a great effort to improve some basics aspects of a society’s cultural traits.\n\nThe term is used by Knott et al. of the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit in the publication: \"Achieving Culture Change: A Policy Framework\" (Knott et al., 2008). The paper sets out how public policy can achieve social and cultural change through 'downstream' interventions including fiscal incentives, legislation, regulation and information provision and also 'upstream' interventions such as parenting, peer and mentoring programs, or development of social and community networks.\n\nThe key concepts the paper is based on include:\n\n\nKnott et al. use examples from a range of policy areas to demonstrate how the culture change framework can be applied to policymaking. For example:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479983", "title": "Curriculum", "text": "Curriculum\n\nIn education, a curriculum (; plural: curricula or curriculums) is broadly defined as the totality of student experiences that occur in the educational process. The term often refers specifically to a planned sequence of instruction, or to a view of the student's experiences in terms of the educator's or school's instructional goals. In a 2003 study Reys, Reys, Lapan, Holliday and Wasman refer to curriculum as a set of learning goals articulated across grades that outline the intended mathematics content and process goals at particular points in time throughout the K–12 school program. Curriculum may incorporate the planned interaction of pupils with instructional content, materials, resources, and processes for evaluating the attainment of educational objectives. Curriculum is split into several categories, the explicit, the implicit (including the hidden), the excluded and the extra-curricular.\n\nCurricula may be tightly standardized, or may include a high level of instructor or learner autonomy. Many countries have national curricula in primary and secondary education, such as the United Kingdom's National Curriculum.\n\nUNESCO's International Bureau of Education has the primary mission of studying curricula and their implementation worldwide.\n\nThe word \"curriculum\" began as a Latin word which means \"a race\" or \"the course of a race\" (which in turn derives from the verb \"currere\" meaning \"to run/to proceed\"). The first known use in an educational context is in the \"Professio Regia\", a work by University of Paris professor Petrus Ramus published posthumously in 1576. The term subsequently appears in University of Leiden records in 1582. The word's origins appear closely linked to the Calvinist desire to bring greater order to education.\n\nBy the seventeenth century, the University of Glasgow also referred to its \"course\" of study as a \"curriculum\", producing the first known use of the term in English in 1633. By the nineteenth century, European universities routinely referred to their curriculum to describe both the complete course of study (as for a degree in surgery) and particular courses and their content.\n\nThere is no generally agreed upon definition of curriculum. Some influential definitions combine various elements to describe curriculum as follows:\nCurriculum can be ordered into a procedure:\n\nUnder some definitions, curriculum is prescriptive, and is based on a more general syllabus which merely specifies what topics must be understood and to what level to achieve a particular grade or standard. The word Syllabus originates from Greek. The Greek meaning of the word basically means a \"concise statement or table of the heads of a discourse, the contents of a treatise, the subjects of series of lectures.\n\n'Curriculum' has numerous definitions, which can be slightly confusing. In its broadest sense a curriculum may refer to all courses offered at a school, explicit. The intended curriculum, which the students learn through the culture of the school, implicit. The curriculum that is specifically excluded, like racism. Plus, the extra curricular activities like sports, and clubs. This is particularly true of schools at the university level, where the diversity of a curriculum might be an attractive point to a potential student.\n\nA curriculum may also refer to a defined and prescribed course of studies, which students must fulfill in order to pass a certain level of education. For example, an elementary school might discuss how its curriculum, or its entire sum of lessons and teachings, is designed to improve national testing scores or help students learn the basics. An individual teacher might also refer to his or her curriculum, meaning all the subjects that will be taught during a school year.\n\nOn the other hand, a high school might refer to a curriculum as the courses required in order to receive one’s diploma. They might also refer to curriculum in exactly the same way as the elementary school, and use curriculum to mean both individual courses needed to pass, and the overall offering of courses, which help prepare a student for life after high school.\n\nCurriculum can be envisaged from different perspectives. What societies envisage as important teaching and learning constitutes the \"intended\" curriculum. Since it is usually presented in official documents, it may be also called the \"written\" and/or \"official\" curriculum. However, at classroom level this intended curriculum may be altered through a range of complex classroom interactions, and what is actually delivered can be considered the \"implemented\" curriculum. What learners really learn (i.e. what can be assessed and can be demonstrated as learning outcomes/learner competencies) constitutes the \"achieved\" or \"learned\" curriculum. In addition, curriculum theory points to a \"hidden\" curriculum (i.e. the unintended development of personal values and beliefs of learners, teachers and communities; unexpected impact of a curriculum; unforeseen aspects of a learning process). Those who develop the intended curriculum should have all these different dimensions of the curriculum in view. While the \"written\" curriculum does not exhaust the meaning of curriculum, it is important because it represents the vision of the society. The \"written\" curriculum is usually expressed in comprehensive and user-friendly documents, such as curriculum frameworks; subject curricula/syllabuses, and in relevant and helpful learning materials, such as textbooks; teacher guides; assessment guides.\n\nIn some cases, people see the curriculum entirely in terms of the subjects that are taught, and as set out within the set of textbooks, and forget the wider goals of competencies and personal development. This is why a curriculum framework is important. It sets the subjects within this wider context, and shows how learning experiences within the subjects need to contribute to the attainment of the wider goals.\n\nThere are many common misconceptions of what curriculum is and one of the most common is that curriculum only entails a syllabus. Smith (1996,2000) says that, \"A syllabus will not generally indicate the relative importance of its topics or the order in which they are to be studied. Where people still equate curriculum with a syllabus they are likely to limit their planning to a consideration of the content or the body of knowledge that they wish to transmit\". \nRegardless of the definition of curriculum, one thing is certain. The quality of any educational experience will always depend to a large extent on the individual teacher responsible for it (Kelly, 2009).\n\nCurriculum is almost always defined with relation to schooling. According to some, it is the major division between formal and informal education. However, under some circumstances it may also be applied to informal education or free-choice learning settings. For instance, a science museum may have a \"curriculum\" of what topics or exhibits it wishes to cover. Many after-school programs in the US have tried to apply the concept; this typically has more success when not rigidly clinging to the definition of curriculum as a product or as a body of knowledge to be transferred. Rather, informal education and free-choice learning settings are more suited to the model of curriculum as practice or praxis.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century, the traditional concepts held of the \"curriculum is that it is a body of subjects or subject matter prepared by the teachers for the students to learn.\" It was synonymous to the \"course of study\" and \"syllabus\".\n\nIn \"The Curriculum\", the first textbook published on the subject, in 1918, John Franklin Bobbitt said that curriculum, as an idea, has its roots in the Latin word for \"race-course\", explaining the curriculum as the course of deeds and experiences through which children become the adults they should be, \"for success in adult society\". Furthermore, the curriculum encompasses the entire scope of formative deed and experience occurring in and out of school, and not only experiences occurring in school; experiences that are unplanned and undirected, and experiences intentionally directed for the purposeful formation of adult members of society. (cf. image at right.)\n\nTo Bobbitt, the curriculum is a social engineering arena. Per his cultural presumptions and social definitions, his curricular formulation has two notable features: (i) that scientific experts would best be qualified to and justified in designing curricula based upon their expert knowledge of what qualities are desirable in adult members of society, and which experiences would generate said qualities; and (ii) curriculum defined as the deeds-experiences the student \"ought to have\" to become the adult he or she \"ought to become\".\n\nHence, he defined the curriculum as an ideal, rather than as the concrete reality of the deeds and experiences that form who and what people become.\n\nContemporary views of curriculum reject these features of Bobbitt's postulates, but retain the basis of curriculum as the course of experience(s) that forms human beings into persons. Personal formation via curricula is studied both at the personal and group levels, i.e. cultures and societies (e.g. professional formation, academic discipline via historical experience). The formation of a group is reciprocal, with the formation of its individual participants.\n\nAlthough it formally appeared in Bobbitt's definition, curriculum as a course of formative experience also pervades John Dewey's work (who disagreed with Bobbitt on important matters). Although Bobbitt's and Dewey's idealistic understanding of \"curriculum\" is different from current, restricted uses of the word, curriculum writers and researchers generally share it as common, substantive understanding of curriculum. Development does not mean just getting something out of the mind. It is a development of experience and into experience that is really wanted.\n\nRobert M. Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, regarded curriculum as \"permanent studies\" where the rules of grammar, rhetoric and logic and mathematics for basic education are emphasized. Basic education should emphasize 3 Rs and college education should be grounded on liberal education. On the other hand, Arthur Bestor as an essentialist, believes that the mission of the school should be intellectual training, hence curriculum should focus on the fundamental intellectual disciplines of grammar, literature and writing. It should also include mathematics, science, history and foreign language.\n\nThis definition leads us to the view of Joseph Schwab that discipline is the sole source of curriculum. Thus in our education system, curriculum is divided into chunks of knowledge we call subject areas in basic education such as English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies and others. In college, discipline may include humanities, sciences, languages and many more. Curriculum should consist entirely of knowledge which comes from various disciplines.To learn the lesson is more interesting than to take a scolding, be held up to general ridicule, stay after school, receive degrading low marks, or fail to be promoted.\n\nThus, curriculum can be viewed as a field of study. It is made up of its foundations (philosophical, historical, psychological, and social foundations); domains of knowledge as well as its research theories and principles. Curriculum is taken as scholarly and theoretical. It is concerned with broad historical, philosophical and social issues and academics. Under a starting definition offered by John Kerr and taken up by Vic Kelly in his standard work on the curriculum, curriculum is “all the learning which is planned and guided by the school, whether it is carried on in groups or individually, inside or outside the school.\n\nFour ways of approaching curriculum theory and practice:\n\nIn recent years the field of education, and therefore curriculum, has expanded outside the walls of the classroom and into other settings such as museums. Within these settings curriculum is an even broader topic, including various teachers such as other visitors, inanimate objects such as audio tour devices, and even the learners themselves. As with the traditional idea of curriculum, curriculum in a free choice learning environment can consist of the explicit stated curriculum and the hidden curriculum, both of which contribute to the learner's experience and lessons from the experience. These elements are further compounded by the setting, cultural influences, and the state of mind of the learner. Museums and other similar settings are most commonly leveraged within traditional classroom settings as enhancements to the curriculum when educators develop curricula that encompass visits to museums, zoos, and aquariums.\n\nOn the other hand, to a progressivist, a listing of school subjects, syllabi, course of study, and list of courses of specific discipline do not make a curriculum. These can only be called curriculum if the written materials are actualized by the learner. Broadly speaking, curriculum is defined as the total learning experiences of the individual. This definition is anchored on John Dewey's definition of experience and education. He believed that reflective thinking is a means that unifies curricular elements. Thought is not derived from action but tested by application.\n\nCaswell and Campbell viewed curriculum as \"all experiences children have under the guidance of teachers.\" This definition is shared by Smith, Stanley and shores when they defined \"curriculum as a sequence of potential experiences set up in schools for the purpose of disciplining children and youth in group ways of thinking and acting.\"\n\nCurriculum as a process is when a teacher enters a particular schooling and situation with: an ability to think critically, in-action; an understanding of their role and the expectations others have of them; and a proposal for action which sets out essential principles and features of the educational encounter. Guided by these, they encourage conversations between, and with, people in the situation out of which may come a course of thinking and action. Plus, the teacher continually evaluates the process and what they can see of outcomes.\n\nMarsh and Willis on the other hand view curriculum as all the \"experiences in the classroom which are planned and enacted by teacher, and also learned by the students.\n\nAny definition of curriculum, if it is to be practically effective and productive, must offer much more than a statement about knowledge-content or merely the subjects which schooling is to teach or transmit or deliver. Some would argue of the course that the values implicit in the arrangements made by schools for their pupils are quite clearly in the consciousness of teachers and planners, again especially when the planners are politicians, and are equally clearly accepted by them as part of what pupils should learn in school, even though they are not overtly recognized by the pupils themselves. In other words, those who design curricula deliberately plan the schools’ ‘expressive culture’. If this is the case, then, the curriculum is ‘hidden’ only to or from the pupils, and the values to be learnt clearly from a part of what is planned for pupils. They must, therefore, be accepted as fully a part of the curriculum, and most especially as an important focus for the kind of study of curriculum with which we are concerned here, not least because important questions must be asked concerning the legitimacy of such practices.\n\nCurrently, a spiral curriculum is promoted as allowing students to revisit a subject matter's content at the different levels of development of the subject matter being studied. The constructivist approach proposes that children learn best via pro-active engagement with the educational environment, i.e. learning through discovery.\n\nA curriculum may be partly or entirely determined by an external, authoritative body (e.g., the National Curriculum for England in English schools).\n\nCrucial to the curriculum is the definition of the course objectives that usually are expressed as learning outcomes and normally include the program's assessment strategy. These outcomes and assessments are grouped as units (or modules), and, therefore, the curriculum comprises a collection of such units, each, in turn, comprising a specialised, specific part of the curriculum. So, a typical curriculum includes communications, numeracy, information technology, and social skills units, with specific, specialized teaching of each.\n\nCore curricula are often instituted, at the primary and secondary levels, by school boards, Departments of Education, or other administrative agencies charged with overseeing education. A core curriculum is a curriculum, or course of study, which is deemed central and usually made mandatory for all students of a school or school system. However, even when core requirements exist, they do not necessarily involve a requirement for students to engage in one particular class or activity. For example, a school might mandate a music appreciation class, but students may opt out if they take a performing musical class, such as orchestra, band, chorus, etc.\n\nIn Australia, the Australian Curriculum took effect nationwide in 2014, after a curriculum development process that began in 2010. Previously, each state's Education Department had traditionally established curricula. The Australian Curriculum consists of one curriculum covering eight subject areas through year 10, and another covering fifteen subjects for the senior secondary years.\n\nIn Canada each province and territory has the authority to create its own curriculum. However, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut both choose to use the Alberta Curriculum for select parts of their curriculum. The territories also use Alberta's standardized tests in some subjects.\n\nIn South Africa the Caps curriculum is used in Public schools. Private schools use IEB, Cambridge, etc.\n\nThe National Curriculum of Korea covers kindergarten, primary, and secondary education, as well as special education. The version currently in place is the 7th National Curriculum, which has been revised in 2007 and 2009. The curriculum provides a framework for a common set of subjects through 9th grade, and elective subjects in grades 10 through 12.\n\nThe curriculum in Japan is determined based on the guidelines for education and the guidelines for learning presented by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.When deciding on the curriculum for each school, the school's organizers will decide on the outline by referring to the manuals and explanations prepared by the Education, Science and Technology Ministry and other public offices, and the schools will decide on additional annual plans.\nThe Courses of Education and Courses of Study are fully revised every 10 years.\nBefore World War II, the curriculum was based on the school regulations corresponding to each school type.\nThe Dutch system is based on directives coming from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science (OCW). Primary and secondary education use key objectives to create curricula. For primary education the total number of objectives has been reduced from 122 (back in 1993) to 58 in 2006. Starting in 2009/2010 all key objectives are obligatory for primary education. The key objectives are oriented towards subject areas such as language, mathematics/arithmetic, orientation towards self and the world, art, and physical education. All of the objectives have accompanying concrete activities. Also final exams are determined by the OCW and required. Parts of those exams are taken in a national setting, created by a committee: Centrale examencommissie vaststelling opgaven. Furthermore, OCW will determine the number of hours to be spent per subject. Apart from these directives every school can determine its own curriculum.\n\nIn 2005, the Nigerian government adopted a national Basic Education Curriculum for grades 1 through 9. The policy was an outgrowth of the Universal Basic Education program announced in 1999, to provide free, compulsory, continuous public education for these years. In 2014, the government implemented a revised version of the national curriculum, reducing the number of subjects covered from 20 to 10.\n\nIn Sweden since 2011, the primary school curriculum is Lgr 11, while secondary schools use Lgy 11.\n\nIn Scotland, the Curriculum for Excellence (CfE) was introduced in August 2010 in all schools. The national qualifications were introduced in 2013 by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA). The national qualifications include:\nLife Skills Coursework (SFL),\nNational 3 (NAT3),\nNational 4 (NAT4),\nNational 5 (NAT5),\nHigher,\nAdvanced Higher.\n\nThe National Curriculum was introduced into England, Wales and Northern Ireland as a nationwide curriculum for primary and secondary state schools following the Education Reform Act 1988. Notwithstanding its name, it does not apply to independent schools, which may set their own curricula, but it ensures that state schools of all local education authorities have a common curriculum. Academies, while publicly funded, have a significant degree of autonomy in deviating from the National Curriculum.\n\nThe purpose of the National Curriculum was to standardise the content taught across schools to enable assessment, which in turn enabled the compilation of league tables detailing the assessment statistics for each school. These league tables, together with the provision to parents of some degree of choice in assignment of the school for their child (also legislated in the same act) were intended to encourage a 'free market' by allowing parents to choose schools based on their measured ability to teach the National Curriculum.\n\nIn the U.S., each state, with the individual school districts, establishes the curricula taught. Each state, however, builds its curriculum with great participation of national academic subject groups selected by the United States Department of Education, e.g. National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) nctm.org for mathematical instruction.\n\nThe Common Core State Standards Initiative (CCSSI) promulgates a core set of standards which are specific information and skills a student needs to know at each grade level in order to graduate. States may adopt these standards in part or whole and expand upon them. Schools and states (depending on how much control a state gives to its local schools) then develop their curriculum to meet each of these standards. This coordination is intended to make it possible to use more of the same textbooks across states, and to move toward a more uniform minimum level of education attainment.\n\nAccording to the CCSSI, “Decisions on how to implement the standards, including the right supports to put in place, are made at the state and local levels. As such, states and localities are taking different approaches to implementing the standards and providing their teachers with the supports they need to help students successfully reach the standards.”\n\nMany educational institutions are currently trying to balance two opposing forces. On the one hand, some believe students should have a common knowledge foundation, often in the form of a core curriculum; on the other hand, others want students to be able to pursue their own educational interests, often through early specialty in a major, however, other times through the free choice of courses. This tension has received a large amount of coverage due to Harvard University's reorganization of its core requirements.\n\nMany labor economics studies report that employment and earnings vary by college major and this appears to be \"caused\" by differences in the labor market value of the skills taught in different majors. Majors also have different labor market value even after students complete graduate degrees such as law degrees or business degrees.\n\nAn essential feature of curriculum design, seen in every college catalog and at every other level of schooling, is the identification of prerequisites for each course. These prerequisites can be satisfied by taking particular courses, and in some cases by examination, or by other means, such as work experience. In general, more advanced courses in any subject require some foundation in basic courses, but some coursework requires study in other departments, as in the sequence of math classes required for a physics major, or the language requirements for students preparing in literature, music, or scientific research. A more detailed curriculum design must deal with prerequisites within a course for each topic taken up. This in turn leads to the problems of course organization and scheduling once the dependencies between topics are known.\n\nCore curriculum has typically been highly emphasized in Soviet and Russian universities and technical institutes.\n\nAt the undergraduate level, individual college and university administrations and faculties sometimes mandate core curricula, especially in the liberal arts. But because of increasing specialization and depth in the student's major field of study, a typical core curriculum in higher education mandates a far smaller proportion of a student's course work than a high school or elementary school core curriculum prescribes.\n\nAmongst the best known and most expansive core curricula programs at leading American colleges and universities are that of Columbia University, as well as the University of Chicago's. Both can take up to two years to complete without advanced standing, and are designed to foster critical skills in a broad range of academic disciplines, including: the social sciences, humanities, physical and biological sciences, mathematics, writing and foreign languages.\n\nIn 1999, the University of Chicago announced plans to reduce and modify the content of its core curriculum, including lowering the number of required courses from 21 to 15 and offering a wider range of content. When \"The New York Times\", \"The Economist\", and other major news outlets picked up this story, the University became the focal point of a national debate on education. The National Association of Scholars released a statement saying, \"It is truly depressing to observe a steady abandonment of the University of Chicago's once imposing undergraduate core curriculum, which for so long stood as the benchmark of content and rigor among American academic institutions.\" Simultaneously, however, a set of university administrators, notably then-President Hugo Sonnenschein, argued that reducing the core curriculum had become both a financial and educational imperative, as the university was struggling to attract a commensurate volume of applicants to its undergraduate division compared to peer schools as a result of what was perceived by the pro-change camp as a reaction by “the average eighteen-year-old” to the expanse of the collegiate core.\n\nAs core curricula began to diminish over the course of the twentieth century at many American schools, some smaller institutions became famous for embracing a core curriculum that covers nearly the student’s entire undergraduate education, often utilizing classic texts of the western canon to teach all subjects including science. Four Great Books colleges in the United States follow this approach: St. John’s, Shimer, Thomas Aquinas, Gutenberg College and Thomas More.\n\nSome colleges opt for the middle ground of the continuum between specified and unspecified curricula by using a system of distribution requirements. In such a system, students are required to take courses in particular fields of learning, but are free to choose specific courses within those fields.\n\nOther institutions have largely done away with core requirements in their entirety. Brown University offers the \"New Curriculum,\" implemented after a student-led reform movement in 1969, which allows students to take courses without concern for any requirements except those in their chosen concentrations (majors), plus two writing courses. In this vein it is certainly possible for students to graduate without taking college-level science or math courses, or to take only science or math courses. Amherst College requires that students take one of a list of first-year seminars, but has no required classes or distribution requirements. Similarly, Grinnell College requires students to take a First-Year Tutorial in their first semester, and has no other class or distribution requirements. Others include Evergreen State College, Hamilton College, and Smith College.\n\nWesleyan University is another school that has not and does not require any set distribution of courses. However, Wesleyan does make clear \"General Education Expectations\" such that if a student does not meet these expectations, he/she would not be eligible for academic honors upon graduation.\n\nGender inequality in curricula shows how men and women are not treated equally in several types of curricula. More precisely, gender inequality is visible in the curriculum of both schools and Teacher Education Institutes (TEIs). Physical education (PE) is an example where gender equality issues are highlighted because of preconceived stereotyping of boys and girls. The general belief is that boys are better at physical activities than girls, and that girls are better at ‘home’ activities such as sewing and cooking. This is the case in many cultures around the world and is not specific to one culture only.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3782055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3782055", "title": "Dal bhat", "text": "Dal bhat\n\nDal bhat (, , , , \"dail bhat\" / ডালি ভাত \"dali bhat\") is a traditional meal from the Indian subcontinent, popular in many areas of Nepal, Bangladesh and India. It consists of steamed rice and a cooked lentil soup called \"dal\". It is a staple food in these countries. \"Bhat\" or \"Chawal\" means \"boiled rice\" in a number of Indo-Aryan languages.\n\nAt higher elevations in Nepal, above , where rice does not grow well, other grain such as maize, buckwheat, barley or millet may be substituted in a cooked preparation called Dhindo or \"atho\" in Nepal. Bhat may be supplemented with roti in Nepal (rounds of unleavened bread).\n\nDal may be cooked with onion, garlic, ginger, chili, tomatoes, or tamarind, in addition to lentils or beans. It always contains herbs and spices such as coriander, garam masala, cumin, and turmeric. Recipes vary by season, locality, ethnic group and family.\n\nDal bhat is often served with vegetable tarkari or torkari ( in Nepali) – a mix of available seasonal vegetables. It is also called Dal Bhat Tarkari (दाल भात तरकारी) in Nepali. There may also be dahi (yogurt) or curry made of chicken, goat meat or fish. A small portion of pickle (called \"achar\") is sometimes included.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4820592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4820592", "title": "Death and the Maiden (The Verlaines song)", "text": "Death and the Maiden (The Verlaines song)\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" is a song by New Zealand rock band The Verlaines. It was released as a single in 1983 and is arguably the most popular song in their discography.\nThe 'B' side of the record was \"CD, Jimmy Jazz & Me\".\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" later appeared on the 1987 album \"Juvenilia\", which was a collection of The Verlaines early singles and EP's.\n\nNew Zealand rock band Elemeno P released a cover version of this song on their 2005 album \"Trouble in Paradise\". Former Pavement frontman Stephen Malkmus also recorded a version for the Flying Nun tribute album \"Under the Influence - 21 Years of Flying Nun Records\" in 2002. Boston band Prickly covered the song on their 1997 LP \"Velleity.\"\n\n\"You'll only end up like Rimbaud\"<br>\"Get shot by Verlaine, Verlaine, Verlaine, Verlaine...\"<br>\nThe lyrics above refer to Paul Verlaine, a 19th-century French poet. After going into a drunken rage, Verlaine shot his lover – fellow poet Arthur Rimbaud in July 1873. The Verlaines took their name from the French poet.\n\n\"Shall we have our photo taken?\"<br>\"We'll look like Death and the Maiden\"<br> \nThis is a reference to a painting of the same name by Egon Schiele, which shows a woman embracing a skeleton. The image is reproduced on the label of Verlaines' side of the \"Dunedin Double\" EP, issued in 1982 (the year before the release of \"Death and the Maiden\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29915619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29915619", "title": "Educational data mining", "text": "Educational data mining\n\nEducational data mining (EDM) describes a research field concerned with the application of data mining, machine learning and statistics to information generated from educational settings (e.g., universities and intelligent tutoring systems). At a high level, the field seeks to develop and improve methods for exploring this data, which often has multiple levels of meaningful hierarchy, in order to discover new insights about how people learn in the context of such settings. In doing so, EDM has contributed to theories of learning investigated by researchers in educational psychology and the learning sciences. The field is closely tied to that of learning analytics, and the two have been compared and contrasted.\n\nEducational data mining refers to techniques, tools, and research designed for automatically extracting meaning from large repositories of data generated by or related to people's learning activities in educational settings. Quite often, this data is extensive, fine-grained, and precise. For example, several learning management systems (LMSs) track information such as when each student accessed each learning object, how many times they accessed it, and how many minutes the learning object was displayed on the user's computer screen. As another example, intelligent tutoring systems record data every time a learner submits a solution to a problem; they may collect the time of the submission, whether or not the solution matches the expected solution, the amount of time that has passed since the last submission, the order in which solution components were entered into the interface, etc. The precision of this data is such that even a fairly short session with a computer-based learning environment (\"e.g.\", 30 minutes) may produce a large amount of process data for analysis.\n\nIn other cases, the data is less fine-grained. For example, a student's university transcript may contain a temporally ordered list of courses taken by the student, the grade that the student earned in each course, and when the student selected or changed his or her academic major. EDM leverages both types of data to discover meaningful information about different types of learners and how they learn, the structure of domain knowledge, and the effect of instructional strategies embedded within various learning environments. These analyses provide new information that would be difficult to discern by looking at the raw data. For example, analyzing data from an LMS may reveal a relationship between the learning objects that a student accessed during the course and their final course grade. Similarly, analyzing student transcript data may reveal a relationship between a student's grade in a particular course and their decision to change their academic major. Such information provides insight into the design of learning environments, which allows students, teachers, school administrators, and educational policy makers to make informed decisions about how to interact with, provide, and manage educational resources.\n\nWhile the analysis of educational data is not itself a new practice, recent advances in educational technology, including the increase in computing power and the ability to log fine-grained data about students' use of a computer-based learning environment, have led to an increased interest in developing techniques for analyzing the large amounts of data generated in educational settings. This interest translated into a series of EDM workshops held from 2000 to 2007 as part of several international research conferences. In 2008, a group of researchers established what has become an annual international research conference on EDM, the first of which took place in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nAs interest in EDM continued to increase, EDM researchers established an academic journal in 2009, the \"Journal of Educational Data Mining\", for sharing and disseminating research results. In 2011, EDM researchers established the International Educational Data Mining Society to connect EDM researchers and continue to grow the field.\n\nWith the introduction of public educational data repositories in 2008, such as the Pittsburgh Science of Learning Centre's (PSLC) DataShop and the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), public data sets have made educational data mining more accessible and feasible, contributing to its growth.\n\nRyan S. Baker and Kalina Yacef identified the following four goals of EDM:\n\n\nThere are four main users and stakeholders involved with educational data mining. These include: \n\nAs research in the field of educational data mining has continued to grow, a myriad of data mining techniques have been applied to a variety of educational contexts. In each case, the goal is to translate raw data into meaningful information about the learning process in order to make better decisions about the design and trajectory of a learning environment. Thus, EDM generally consists of four phases:\nDuring phases 3 and 4, data is often visualized or in some other way distilled for human judgment. A large amount of research has been conducted in best practices for visualizing data.\n\nOf the general categories of methods mentioned, prediction, clustering and relationship mining are considered universal methods across all types of data mining; however, Discovery with Models and Distillation of Data for Human Judgment are considered more prominent approaches within educational data mining.\n\nIn the Discovery with Model method, a model is developed via prediction, clustering or by human reasoning knowledge engineering and then used as a component in another analysis, namely in prediction and relationship mining. In the prediction method use, the created model's predictions are used to predict a new variable. For the use of relationship mining, the created model enables the analysis between new predictions and additional variables in the study. In many cases, discovery with models uses validated prediction models that have proven generalizability across contexts.\n\nKey applications of this method include discovering relationships between student behaviors, characteristics and contextual variables in the learning environment. Further discovery of broad and specific research questions across a wide range of contexts can also be explored using this method.\n\nHumans can make inferences about data that may be beyond the scope in which an automated data mining method provides. For the use of education data mining, data is distilled for human judgment for two key purposes, identification and classification.\n\nFor the purpose of identification, data is distilled to enable humans to identify well-known patterns, which may otherwise be difficult to interpret. For example, the learning curve, classic to educational studies, is a pattern that clearly reflects the relationship between learning and experience over time.\n\nData is also distilled for the purposes of classifying features of data, which for educational data mining, is used to support the development of the prediction model. Classification helps expedite the development of the prediction model, tremendously.\n\nThe goal of this method is to summarize and present the information in a useful, interactive and visually appealing way in order to understand the large amounts of education data and to support decision making. In particular, this method is beneficial to educators in understanding usage information and effectiveness in course activities. Key applications for the distillation of data for human judgment include identifying patterns in student learning, behavior, opportunities for collaboration and labeling data for future uses in prediction models.\n\nA list of the primary applications of EDM is provided by Cristobal Romero and Sebastian Ventura. In their taxonomy, the areas of EDM application are:\n\nNew research on mobile learning environments also suggests that data mining can be useful. Data mining can be used to help provide personalized content to mobile users, despite the differences in managing content between mobile devices and standard PCs and web browsers.\n\nNew EDM applications will focus on allowing non-technical users use and engage in data mining tools and activities, making data collection and processing more accessible for all users of EDM. Examples include statistical and visualization tools that analyzes social networks and their influence on learning outcomes and productivity.\n\nIn October 2013, Coursera offered a free online course on \"Big Data in Education\" that taught how and when to use key methods for EDM. This course moved to edX in the summer of 2015, and has continued to run on edX annually since then. A course archive is now available online.\n\nTeachers College, Columbia University offers a MS in Learning Analytics.\n\nConsiderable amounts of EDM work are published at the peer-reviewed International Conference on Educational Data Mining, organized by the International Educational Data Mining Society.\n\nEDM papers are also published in the \"Journal of Educational Data Mining\" (JEDM).\n\nMany EDM papers are routinely published in related conferences, such as Artificial Intelligence and Education, Intelligent Tutoring Systems, and User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization.\n\nIn 2011, Chapman & Hall/CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group published the first Handbook of Educational Data Mining. This resource was created for those that are interested in participating in the educational data mining community.\n\nIn 2010, the Association for Computing Machinery's KDD Cup was conducted using data from an educational setting. The data set was provided by the Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center's DataShop, and it consisted of over 1,000,000 data points from students using a cognitive tutor. Six hundred teams competed for over 8,000 USD in prize money (which was donated by Facebook). The goal for contestants was to design an algorithm that, after learning from the provided data, would make the most accurate predictions from new data. The winners submitted an algorithm that utilized feature generation (a form of representation learning), random forests, and Bayesian networks.\n\nAlong with technological advancements are costs and challenges associated with implementing EDM applications. These include the costs to store logged data and the cost associated with hiring staff dedicated to managing data systems. Moreover, data systems may not always integrate seamlessly with one another and even with the support of statistical and visualization tools, creating one simplified version of the data can be difficult. Furthermore, choosing which data to mine and analyze can also be challenging, making the initial stages very time consuming and labor-intensive. From beginning to end, the EDM strategy and implementation requires one to uphold privacy and ethics for all stakeholders involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8738092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8738092", "title": "Galileo's Leaning Tower of Pisa experiment", "text": "Galileo's Leaning Tower of Pisa experiment\n\nBetween 1589–92, the Italian scientist Galileo Galilei (then professor of mathematics at the University of Pisa) is said to have dropped two spheres of different masses from the Leaning Tower of Pisa to demonstrate that their time of descent was independent of their mass, according to a biography by Galileo's pupil Vincenzo Viviani, composed in 1654 and published in 1717.\n\nAccording to the story, Galileo discovered through this experiment that the objects fell with the same acceleration, proving his prediction true, while at the same time disproving Aristotle's theory of gravity (which states that objects fall at speed proportional to their mass). Most historians consider it to have been a thought experiment rather than a physical test.\n\nAt the time when Viviani asserts that the experiment took place, Galileo had not yet formulated the final version of his law of free fall. He had, however, formulated an earlier version which predicted that bodies \"of the same material\" falling through the same medium would fall at the same speed. This was contrary to what Aristotle had taught: that heavy objects fall faster than lighter ones, in direct proportion to their weight. While this story has been retold in popular accounts, there is no account by Galileo himself of such an experiment, and it is accepted by most historians that it was a thought experiment which did not actually take place. An exception is Stillman Drake, who argues that it took place, more or less as Viviani described it, as a demonstration for students.\n\nGalileo set out his ideas about falling bodies, and about projectiles in general, in his book \"Two New Sciences\". The two were the science of motion, which became the foundation-stone of physics, and the science of materials and construction, an important contribution to engineering. Galileo arrived at his hypothesis by a famous thought experiment outlined in his book \"On Motion\". This experiment runs as follows: Imagine two objects, one light and one heavier than the other one, are connected to each other by a string. Drop this system of objects from the top of a tower. If we assume heavier objects do indeed fall faster than lighter ones (and conversely, lighter objects fall slower), the string will soon pull taut as the lighter object retards the fall of the heavier object. But the system considered as a whole is \"heavier\" than the heavy object alone, and therefore should fall \"faster\". This contradiction leads one to conclude the assumption is false.\n\nA similar experiment took place some years earlier in Delft in the Netherlands, when the mathematician and physicist Simon Stevin and Jan Cornets de Groot (the father of Hugo de Groot) conducted the experiment from the top of the Nieuwe Kerk. The experiment is described in Simon Stevin's book \"De Beghinselen der Weeghconst\" (The Principles of Statics), published in 1586 and a landmark book on statics:\n\n'Let us take (as the highly educated Jan Cornets de Groot, the diligent researcher of the mysteries of Nature, and I have done) two balls of lead, the one ten times bigger and heavier than the other, and let them drop together from 30 feet high, and it will show, that the lightest ball is not ten times longer under way than the heaviest, but they fall together at the same time on the ground. (...) This proves that Aristotle is wrong.' \nAstronaut David Scott performed a version of the experiment on the moon during the Apollo 15 mission in 1971, dropping a feather and a hammer from his hands. Because of the negligible lunar atmosphere, there was no drag on the feather, which hit the ground at the same time as the hammer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1644786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644786", "title": "Haunted (Palahniuk novel)", "text": "Haunted (Palahniuk novel)\n\nHaunted is a 2005 novel by Chuck Palahniuk. The plot is a frame story for a series of 23 short stories, most preceded by a free verse poem. Each story is followed by a chapter of the main narrative, is told by a character in main narrative, and ties back into the main story in some way. Typical of Palahniuk's work, the dominant motifs in \"Haunted\" are sexual deviance, sexual identity, homosexuality, desperation, social distastefulness, disease, murder, death, and existentialism.\n\nThe synopsis on the dustjacket describes \"Haunted\" as a satire of reality television, but according to Palahniuk, the novel is actually about \"the battle for credibility\" that has resulted from the ease with which one can publish through the use of modern technology.\n\nThe cover of the 2006 U.S. trade paperback reprint features a glow-in-the-dark image. \n\nEach of the book's chapters contains three sections: a story chapter, which acts as a framing device for the otherwise unconnected short stories; a poem about a particular writer on the tour, its author being unspecified; and the short story written by that writer.\n\nThe main story centers on a group of seventeen individuals (all of whom go by nicknames based on the story they tell) who have decided to participate in a secret writers' retreat, frequently compared by characters to the Villa Diodati retreat of 1816. After having noticed an invitation to the retreat posted on the bulletin board of a cafe in Oregon, the characters follow instructions on the invitation to meet Mr. Whittier, the retreat's organizer. Whittier tells them to each wait for a bus to pick them up the next morning and bring only what they can fit into one piece of luggage (in particular, only what they feel they need most).\n\nThe next day, the seventeen characters, Whittier, and his assistant Mrs. Clark are driven to an abandoned theatre. Whittier locks all of them inside the theatre, telling them they have three months to each write a magnum opus before he will allow them to leave. In the meantime, they will have enough food and water to survive, as well as heat, electricity, bedrooms, bathrooms, and a clothes washing and drying machine provided.\n\nThe characters live under harmless conditions at first. However, the group (not including Whittier or Clark) eventually decide that they could make a better story of their own suffering inside the theatre, and thereby become rich after the public discovers their fate. They then begin to individually sabotage the food and utilities provided to them, with each character trying to only destroy one food or utility to slightly increase the drama of their stay. Since the characters are not co-ordinating their plans, they end up destroying all their food and utilities, forcing all of them to struggle to survive starvation, cold, and darkness.\n\nWith Whittier accidentally dying from a stomach rupture, the writers find themselves trapped without him. Believing a great increase in their suffering will provide a better story for when they're rescued, several writers start to willingly engage in self-mutilation and cannibalism, doing so to give the pretense Whittier tortured them. With numerous characters committing suicide, killing one another, or succumbing to their ailments, they continue to formulate their story whilst the theatre somehow repairs its broken utilities.\n\nWith numerous people dead, Mrs. Clark included, the writers continue to sabotage themselves, such as destroying the lighting and wasting any additional food supplies they find. The eleven remaining writers eventually group in the main theatre, only for Whittier to appear and reveal he faked his death (with Clark's help) and has been observing the writers through hidden cameras. Informing the writers their three months have passed and that they are free to leave, Whittier notes that, by continuing to blame him for everything and playing the victim to extreme extents, they haven't acted any differently from the other groups. Whittier unlocks the exit and leaves with Miss Sneezy, choosing her as the person he saves and offering her a new life. Mother Nature, objecting that they need to wait a little longer for other writers to die and for someone to rescue them, stabs Miss Sneezy. To prevent Whittier from leaving with her, they drag Miss Sneezy back inside and break the lock, and continue to wait for rescue.\n\nThe following are the 19 characters in the main narrative, along with the stories they tell:\n\nThe book is best known for the short story \"Guts\", which had been published before the book in the March 2004 issue of \"Playboy\" magazine as well as on Palahniuk's website. It is a tale of violent accidents involving masturbation, in which the reader is instructed to hold his or her breath in the very first line.\n\nA New York City public school 11th grade teacher was suspended for letting his English class read \"Guts\".\n\n\"Guts\" begins with the narrator, aptly named \"Saint Gut-Free,\" telling the reader to hold his/her/their breath for the duration of the story.\n\nThe narrator then describes three stories of male masturbation gone horribly awry. In the first story, an adolescent boy inserts a Vaseline-lubricated carrot into his rectum to stimulate his prostate, then, in haste, stashes it in a pile of laundry when he is called to dinner. Later, his mother takes the laundry away and presumably discovers the used carrot, but never mentions the incident. Next, the narrator tells the tale of a young boy who, having heard that it enhances masturbatory pleasure, inserts a thin stick of candle wax into his urethra. The wax unexpectedly slips back into the boy's bladder, thereby blocking his urine flow and causing blood to seep from his penis. Because he requires expensive surgery, his parents are forced to pay to repair his bladder with the boy's college savings. Finally, the narrator explains how he himself suffered a sexual injury, when sitting on the water-intake valve at the bottom of his home swimming pool while masturbating. While swimming down to the bottom of the pool to stimulate his prostate before coming up for air—a repetitive process he refers to as \"Pearl diving\"—the suction from the valve causes his rectum and lower intestines to prolapse and become tangled in the filter. Ultimately, he finds himself stuck on the bottom of the pool and must gnaw through his own innards to free himself and avoid drowning. When Saint Gut-Free's sister later becomes pregnant, he falsely believes that he is the father of an incestuous child, since he thinks his sister has encountered the semen he leaves in their family swimming pool on that fateful day (she is actually pregnant by her boyfriend and decided to have an abortion).\n\nIn between the main stories, Saint Gut-Free muses over families who cover up their loved ones' accidental deaths by autoerotic asphyxiation. In doing so, he highlights the theme of sexual repression throughout the tale. For example, in all three cases of sexual trauma, the parents are aware of the erotic nature of their son's accidents, but never discuss them afterwards. As a result, their sons are forced figuratively to \"hold their breath\" in the silence that lingers. Saint Gut-Free refers to these moments of sexual repression as the \"invisible carrot,\" referring to both the mother in the first story and to the total denial of all the parents involved.\n\nPurportedly all three of these incidents are based on true stories. According to Palahniuk, the first two tales came from his friends' experiences and the third he heard while shadowing sexual addiction support groups as research for \"Choke\". In one of these groups, he met an extremely thin man. When Palahniuk asked him how he stayed so thin, he told him \"I had a massive bowel resectioning.\" When Palahniuk asked what he meant, he told him the story which was the basis for the third episode in \"Guts\".\n\nHaunted received mixed to favorable reviews from critics upon its release. \"Haunted\" received a negative review from The New York Times columnist Tom Shone who noted that despite being referred to as a horror novel it is \"...stubbornly unscary. It burps up its shock moments with so little ceremony that the Gothic virtue of stealthily sidewinding suspense -- the art of allowing a story to steal up on you before you even knew it was there -- is left whistling in the wind.\" Shone additionally noted the repetitive nature of many of the stories within the novel noting that every single story regardless of which character was narrating all utilized Palahniuk's distinctive style.\n\nTasha Robinson of the A.V. Club reviewed the novel soon after its release giving it a positive review, stating \"...Palahniuk is as unique and colorful as ever, with his predilection for odd factoids and weird twists. But none of this makes the arbitrary deaths, the ludicrous behavior, or the pages upon pages about corpse-rot and vivisection any easier to deal with. Like his characters, Palahniuk sometimes seems to be operating under the presumption that he can never sink too low, or vomit up too much. Here's hoping he's wrong, for everyone's sake.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31815564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31815564", "title": "Hidden Christian Sites in the Nagasaki Region", "text": "Hidden Christian Sites in the Nagasaki Region\n\nHidden Christian Sites in the Nagasaki Region () is a group of twelve sites in Nagasaki Prefecture and Kumamoto Prefecture relating to the history of Christianity in Japan. The Nagasaki churches are unique in the sense that each tells a story about the revival of Christianity after a long period of official suppression.\n\nProposed jointly in 2007 for inscription on the UNESCO World Heritage List under criteria ii, iii, iv, v, and vi, the submission named at the time Churches and Christian Sites in Nagasaki on the Tentative List, was recognized on January 30, 2018 as a World Heritage Site. \n\nThe initial nomination included 26 sites; however, after reconsideration the Nagasaki Prefecture reduced the monuments to 13 sites. Twelve sites were recognized. Controversies over the Hidden Christian Sites in the Nagasaki Region have been widely discussed in the academic literature.\n\nChristianity arrived in Japan in 1549 with the Jesuit missionary Francis Xavier. Fanning out from Nagasaki, the new faith won many converts, including a number of \"daimyōs\". Toyotomi Hideyoshi then Tokugawa Ieyasu persecuted those professing to be Christian. After the Shimabara Rebellion of 1637–1638, the official repression of Christian practices was combined with a policy of national seclusion that lasted over two centuries. With the advent of Western powers and reopening of Japan in the 1850s and the reforms of the Meiji Restoration, missionary activity was renewed and a number of Hidden Christians resurfaced. Ōura Cathedral of 1864 is the first of the churches built in subsequent years.\n\nThe list consists of sites previously nominated, but currently not in the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56243392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56243392", "title": "Hooch (application)", "text": "Hooch (application)\n\nHooch is a location-based subscription drinks mobile app that provides users one alcoholic beverage per day redeemable at a number of bars and lounges based off the user’s location. The app is most commonly used as a marketing tool but has branched out to provide data and events services to the restaurant and nightlife industry, making it more of a general social media application. Hooch app allows user authentication through Facebook profiles. \n\nHooch co-founder Aleksey Kernes conceived of the idea of Hooch while working as a doorman at Hotel Chantelle. Kernes wanted to reward loyal customers with drink tickets but found current systems burdensome and not scalable. Following an initial prototype of the Hooch app, Kernes recruited Lin Dai as CEO, who departed his post as Chief Marketing Officer at Keek, which had gone public on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Jared Christopherson joined as Chief Revenue Officer and cofounder after leaving social-media marketing firm Yellowhammer. The three bootstrapped the app’s build out from Dai’s apartment at Caledonia in New York. In an interview with Forbes, Dai explained that he decided to cofound Hooch just before his wedding and broke the news to his wife on their honeymoon.\n\nIn 2015, TimeOut New York uncovered Hooch’s app in beta phase and listed it as one of the five best drinking apps in New York City. 2016 the company raised a seed round of $1.25 million in funding led by Blue Scorpion Investments in early 2016. In October 2016 the company announced a larger seed round in the amount of $1.5 million that included celebrity investors Russell Simmons, Chris Burch, Shaun White, Leonard Blavatnick, Baron Davis, Emeka Okafor, Tyson Ritter and Maxwell.\n\nAs of 2017, Hotel Chantelle is one of over 500 venues where Hooch customers redeem a drink. Kernes remains its doorman. Actress Rosario Dawson joined Hooch’s list of celebrity investors in fall 2017.\n\nHooch markets itself as a cost-saving lifestyle app for consumers and a predictive-analytics and revenue tool to its clients, which range from alcohol brands to restaurants. As of 2017 Hooch is available at over 500 bars and lounges in New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Dallas, Austin, San Diego, Phoenix, San Francisco, and Hong Kong. The company claims over 140,000 app users.\n\nIn 2016 the New York Post reported that along with the redeemed drink through the Hooch app, the average user purchases $100 to $140 in other drinks and food at the participating restaurant.\nAdweek reported that Hooch’s data trove from its user base enables the company to identify local drink purchasing trends in real time. Specifically, the report said that Hooch “was able to predict that the Moscow Mule would dominate California before the trend was recognized in popular culture.”\n\nIn 2018 Hooch launched a subscription-only membership service under the \"Hooch Black\" label that includes discounts on hotel bookings purportedly at prices lower than Expedia and Travelocity. The Hooch Black network includes 100,000 hotels.\n\nIn 2018 Hooch announced a $5 million funding round led by Warner Music to build out blockchain technology, called Tap Coin, as its next product. Blockchain media publications reported that Tap Coin, a utility token used on the \"Tap Network,\" is a decentralized advertising network.\n\n"}
{"id": "18901060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18901060", "title": "Household plot", "text": "Household plot\n\nHousehold plot is a legally defined farm type in all former socialist countries in CIS and CEE. This is a small plot of land (typically less than 0.5 hectares) attached to a rural residence. The household plot is primarily cultivated for subsistence and its traditional purpose since the Soviet times has been to provide the family with food. Surplus products from the household plot are sold to neighbors, relatives, and often also in farmer markets in nearby towns. The household plot was the only form of private or family farming allowed during the Soviet era, when household plots of rural people coexisted in a symbiotic relationship with large collective and state farms. Since 1990, the household plots are classified as one of the two components of the individual farm sector, the other being peasant farms – independent family farms established for commercial production on much larger areas of agricultural land (typically 10-50 hectares). In terms of legal organization, household plots are natural (physical) persons, whereas peasant farms generally are legal (juridical) persons.\n\nHousehold plots are called in Russian subsidiary (or auxiliary) household plots – личные подсобные хозяйства, abbreviated in writing and in speech as ЛПХ (transliteration: LPKh). They are also often referred to (especially in official statistical publications) as хозяйства населения (), i.e., plots (or farms) of rural residents (where the term “rural residents” is used to distinguish them from peasant farmers). This Russian terminology was universally accepted in all former Soviet countries until the early 1990s, but a certain terminological divergence has since emerged in the newly independent states. For instance, in Uzbekistan the traditional household plots are now called dehkan farms and in Ukraine the Russian abbreviation ЛПХ has been replaced with OСГ (from Ukrainian: \"osobysti selyanski hospodarstva\").\n\nIn Czarist Russia, the plot (\"usad'ba\") was usually adjacent to the peasant's house. Here the peasants traditionally grew vegetables, hemp (a source of oil and livestock feed) and a little fruit. Gardens varied in size; they could be as much as a hectare, but most were smaller. The plot was normally in the hereditary tenure of the household, and not subject to repartition (unlike the peasants' holdings in the open fields).\n\nIn the later 19th century the growth of towns and cities in central Russia encouraged the development of market gardening and truck farming in this region. By the eve of the Revolution the garden economy was developing quickly. A further stimulus was provided in the first years of the Revolution by the Bolshevik policy of requisitioning peasant produce. Fruit and vegetables were exempt from this policy, and this resulted in a strong swing from grain farming to kitchen and market gardening. In the grain-producing regions (Black-Earth belt and North Caucasia) the garden economy increased its share of peasant commodity production from 3.3% in 1913 to 12.2% in 1920, while the field economy declined from 62.6% to 39.3% in the same period. Market gardening continued to develop during the 1920s.\n\nThe mass collectivization decree of January 1930 made no mention of garden plots, and in many areas the local Communist authorities abolished them. But in March 1930, after the chaos and peasant resistance engendered by the all-out drive, the right of the peasant to have a personal plot was recognised. No maximum size was agreed at this stage, however, and the garden plot remained in a legislative limbo until the kolkhoz model charter of February 1935.\n\nThis charter specified that plots could vary from one-quarter to one-half hectare, and up to 1 hectare in special districts. The legislation regarded individual peasants as the holders but in practice plots were still in household tenure. The private plots were responsible for a significant fraction of agricultural production, and provided the peasants with a large part of their food and income. In 1938 they accounted for 21.5% of agricultural produce. The average peasant household earned about twice as much from marketings from the private plot as from its work on collective land.\n\nBy the late 1930s market gardening, with the private plot as its base, was perhaps becoming the dominant part of agriculture in the Black-Sea hinterland and the truck-gardening areas around big cities like Moscow and Leningrad. The government, alarmed by this `resurgence of private capitalism', passed legislation to contain it in 1939, but it continued to play an important role in agriculture.\n\n"}
{"id": "19001725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19001725", "title": "I-message", "text": "I-message\n\nIn interpersonal communication, an I-message or I-statement is an assertion about the feelings, beliefs, values etc. of the person speaking, generally expressed as a sentence beginning with the word \"I\", and is contrasted with a \"you-message\" or \"you-statement\", which often begins with the word \"you\" and focuses on the person spoken to. Thomas Gordon coined the term \"I message\" in the 1960s while doing play therapy with children. He added the concept to his book for parents, \"P.E.T.: Parent Effectiveness Training\" (1970).\n\nI-messages are often used with the intent to be assertive without putting the listener on the defensive. They are also used to take ownership for one's feelings rather than implying that they are caused by another person. An example of this would be to say: \"I really am getting backed up on my work since I don't have the financial report yet\", rather than: \"you didn't finish the financial report on time!\" (The latter is an example of a \"you-statement\").\n\nI-messages or I-statements can also be used in constructive criticism. For instance, one might say, \"I had to read that section of your paper three times before I understood it\", rather than, \"This section is worded in a really confusing way\", or \"You need to learn how to word a paper more clearly.\" The former comment leaves open the possibility that the fault lies with the giver of the criticism. According to the Conflict Resolution Network, I-statements are a dispute resolution conversation opener that can be used to state how one sees things and how one would like things to be, without using inflaming language\n\nWhile the underlying rationale and approach to I-messages is similar in various systems, there are both three-part and four-part models for constructing I-messages. A three-part model is proposed by the University of Tennessee Family & Consumer Sciences for improving communication with children:\n\nAccording to Hope E. Morrow, a common pitfall in I-statement construction is using phrases like \"I feel that...\" or \"I like that...\" which typically express an opinion or judgment. Morrow favors following \"I feel...\" with a feeling such as \"sad\", \"angry\", etc. \n\nGordon advises that to use an I-message successfully, there should be congruence between the words one is using and one's affect, tone of voice, facial expression and body language. Gordon also describes a 3-part I-message, called a \"confrontive\" I-message, with the following parts:\nHe describes the I-message as an appeal for help from the other person, and states that the other person is more likely to respond positively when the message is presented in that way.\n\nIf an \"I\" message contains \"you-messages\", it can be problematic in conflict situations. For example: \"I feel..., when you..., and I want you to...\" This can put the receiver of the statement on the defensive. In a dispute, use of a phrase that begins with \"I want\" may encourage the parties to engage in positional problem solving. This may make conflicts more difficult to resolve. An \"interest-based\" approach to conflict resolution suggests using statements that reflect why the individual wants something.\n\nThe goals of an \"I\" message in an interest-based approach:\n\nThe Ohio Commission on Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management summarized this approach as follows: \"A sender of a message can use a statement that begins with 'I' and expresses the sender's feelings, identifies the unwanted behavior, and indicates a willingness to resolve the dispute, without using 'you' statements or engaging in positional problem solving.\n\nThe Commission proposed a four-part I-message:\n\nMarital stability and relationship analysis researcher John Gottman notes that although I-statements are less likely than You-statements to be critical and to make the listener defensive, \"you can also buck this general rule and come up with 'I' statements like 'I think you are selfish' that are hardly gentle. So the point is not to start talking to your spouse in some stilted psychobabble. Just keep in mind that if your words focus on how \"you're\" feeling rather than on accusing your spouse, your discussion will be far more successful.\"\n\nI-statements have been found to offer a tremendous benefit to clients – patients. I-statements encourage growth and maturation. They are beneficial when employed with an individual struggling with self-defeating thoughts and mindset.\n\nThe therapeutic model varies on its take on the use of I-statements. I-statements are designed to rid the myths from the reality of life. I-statements are further productive in challenging one's innermost feelings. Dr. Asa Don Brown, author with the Canadian Counseling and Psychotherapy Association stated that \"Self-talk reflects your innermost feelings.\" If they reflect your \"inner most\" feelings, then understanding those feelings are necessary in overcoming one's negative perceptions and worldviews, according to Dr. Brown.\n\nI-statements are capable of influencing one's path and design in life. According to Girlshealth.gov, \"An I-statement is a sentence that begins with the word \"I.\" It helps the... (individual) take responsibility for their feelings instead of saying they are caused by the other person. This can help keep relationships open and honest between people when there is a conflict.\" \n\nI statements are important for clarifying one's position, contribution, and desires around a situation, event, and/or life perspective. According to family psychology movement, I-statements are necessary for establishing a healthy relationship and an appropriate level of intimacy.\n\nI-statements help the individual avoid blame, turning blame into personal responsibility. Personal responsibility is key to learning to use I-statements. Without personal responsibility, I-statements are null in their intention.\n\nGordon states, \"Although I-messages are more likely to influence others to change than You-messages, still it is a fact that being confronted with the prospect of having to change is often disturbing to the changee.\" A quick shift by the sender of the I-message to an active listening posture can achieve several important functions in this situation, according to Gordon. He states that in Leader Effectiveness Training courses, this is called \"shifting gears\", and states that the person might shift back to an I-message later in the conversation.\n\nA book about mentoring states that communications specialists find that I-messages are a less threatening way to confront someone one wants to influence, and suggests a three-part I-message: a neutral description of planned behaviour, consequences of the behaviour, and the emotions of the speaker about the situation.\n\nA manual for health care workers calls I-messages an \"important skill\", but emphasizes that use of an I-message does not guarantee that the other person will respond in a helpful way. It presents an I-message as a way that one can take responsibility for one's own feelings and express them without blaming someone else. A manual for social workers presents I-messages as a technique with the purpose of improving the effectiveness of communication.\n\nA study in Hong Kong of children's reactions to messages from their mothers found that children are most receptive to I-messages that reveal distress, and most antagonistic towards critical you-messages. A study with university students as subjects did not find differences in emotional reactions to I-messages and you-messages for negative emotions, but did find differences in reactions for positive emotions.\n\nA study of self-reported emotional reactions to I-statements and you-statements by adolescents found that accusatory you-statements evoked greater anger and a greater inclination for antagonistic response than assertive I-statements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306576", "title": "Index of soil-related articles", "text": "Index of soil-related articles\n\nThis is an index of articles relating to soil.\n\nAcid sulfate soil\n- Acrisol\n- Active layer\n- Agricultural soil science\n- Akadama\n- Albeluvisols\n- Alfisols\n- Alkali soils\n- Andisols\n- Angle of repose\n- Antigo (soil)\n- Aridisols\n- Atriplex\n- Australian Society of Soil Science Incorporated\n\nBaer's law\n- Bama (soil)\n- Barren vegetation\n- Base-richness\n- Bay mud\n- Bearing capacity\n- Bentonite\n- Berkshire (soil)\n- Bevameter\n- Biochar\n- Biogeology\n- Blandford (soil)\n- Bog\n- Brickearth\n- Brown earth\n- Brown podzolic\n\nCalcareous grassland\n- Calcareous\n- Calciorthid\n- Calcisols\n- Cambisols\n- Canada Land Inventory\n- Capacitance probe\n- Carbon cycle re-balancing\n- Casa Grande (soil)\n- Cation-exchange capacity \n- Cellular confinement\n- Cecil (soil)\n- Characterisation of pore space in soil\n- Charlottetown (soil series)\n- Chernozem\n- Clay\n- Claypan\n- Cob (material)\n- Cohesion (geology)\n- Compressed earth block\n- Consolidation (soil)\n- Contour ploughing\n- Critical state soil mechanics\n\nDarcy (unit)\n- Darcy's law\n- Darcy–Weisbach equation\n- Dark earth\n- Dispersion (geology)\n- Downer (soil)\n- Downhill creep\n- Drainage research\n- Drilosphere\n- Drucker Prager yield criterion\n- Drummer (soil)\n- Dry quicksand\n- Dryland salinity\n- Duricrust\n- Durisols\n- Dynamic compaction\n\nEcological land classification\n- Ecosystem ecology\n- Edaphic\n- Edaphology\n- Effective stress\n- Eluvium\n- Entisol\n- Environmental impact of irrigation\n- Erosion\n- European Soil Bureau Network\n- European Soil Database\n- Expansive clay\n\nFactors affecting permeability of soils\n- Fech fech\n- Fen\n- Ferrallitisation\n- Fill dirt\n- Flatwood\n- Flownet\n- Fractal in soil mechanics\n- Frequency domain sensor\n- Fresno scraper\n- Frost heaving\n- Frost line\n- Fuller's earth\n\nGelisols\n- Geosmin\n- Geotechnical investigation\n- Gley soil\n- Gleysols\n- Gravitational erosion\n- Groundwater-related subsidence\n- Guelph soil\n- Gypcrust\n- Gypsisols\n\nHardpan\n- Headland (agriculture)\n- Hesco bastion\n- Hilo (soil)\n- History of soil science\n- Histosol\n- Houdek (soil)\n- Hume (soil)\n- Humin\n- Humus\n- Hydraulic conductivity\n- Hydric soil\n- Hydro axe mulching\n- Hydrological transport model\n- Hydropedology\n- Hydrophobic soil\n\nImmobilization (soil science)\n- Inceptisols\n- Infiltration capacity\n- International Humic Substances Society\n- International Soil Reference and Information Centre\n- International Union of Soil Sciences\n\nJory (soil)\n\nKalkaska sand\n- Kerogen\n\nLahar\n- Laimosphere\n- Land improvement\n- Lateral earth pressure\n- Leaching (agriculture)\n- Leaching (pedology)\n- Leaching model (soil)\n- Leptosols\n- Lessivage\n- Liming (soil)\n- Linear aeration\n- Lixisols\n- Loam\n- Loess\n- Lunar soil\n\nMiami (soil)\n- Multi-Scale Soil Information Systems\n- Mineralization (soil)\n- Mollisols\n- Mud\n- Muck (soil)\n- Multiscale European Soil Information System\n- Muskeg\n- Myakka (soil)\n\nNarragansett (soil)\n- Natchez silt loam\n- National Society of Consulting Soil Scientists\n- Natural organic matter\n- Newmark's influence chart\n- No till method\n\nOn-Grade Mat Foundation for Expansive Soils\n- OPAL Soil Centre\n- Orovada (soil)\n- Orthent\n- Overburden pressure\n- Oxisol\n\nPaleosol\n- Particle size (grain size)\n- Paxton (soil)\n- Peat\n- Pedalfer\n- Pedocal\n- Pedodiversity\n- Pedology (soil study)\n- Permeability (earth sciences)\n- Petrichor\n- Plaggen soil\n- Planosol\n- Plough pan\n- Podsol\n- Pore water pressure\n- Porosity\n- Port Silt Loam\n- Prime farmland\n- Psamment\n- Pygmy forest\n\nQuick clay\n- Quicksand\n\nRankers\n- Red Mediterranean soil\n- Regosols\n- Rendzina\n- Residual Sodium Carbonate Index\n- Reynolds' dilatancy\n- Rill\n- Rock flour\n\nSahysMod\n- Saline seep\n- Salinity in Australia\n- Salt marsh\n- Salting the earth\n- SaltMod\n- San Joaquin (soil)\n- Sand\n- Sand boil\n- Sandbag\n- Scobey (soil)\n- Seitz (soil)\n- Serpentine soil\n- Shear strength (soil)\n- Shear strength test\n- Shrub swamp\n- Silt\n- Slope stability\n- Slump\n- Sodium adsorption ratio\n- Soil\n- Soil alkalinity\n- Soil acidification\n- Soil amendment\n- Soil and water assessment tool\n- Soil Association\n- Soil biodiversity\n- Soil biology\n- Soil carbon\n- Soil cement\n- Soil chemistry\n- Soil classification\n- Soil compaction\n- Soil conditioner\n- Soil conservation\n- Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act\n- Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act of 1936\n- Soil contamination\n- Soil crust\n- Soil depletion\n- Soil ecology\n- Soil erosion\n- Soil fertility\n- Soil food web\n- Soil functions\n- Soil gradation\n- Soil guideline value\n- Soil health\n- Soil horizon\n- Soil inoculant\n- Soil life\n- Soil liquefaction\n- Soil management \n- Soil mechanics\n- Soil moisture\n- Soil moisture sensors\n- Soil nailing\n- Soil organic matter\n- Soil pH\n- Soil physics\n- Soil policy (Victoria, Australia)\n- Soil profile\n- Soil resilience\n- Soil respiration\n- Soil salination\n- Soil salinity\n- Soil salinity control\n- Soil science\n- Soil Science Society of America\n- Soil series\n- Soil solarization\n- Soil steam sterilization\n- Soil structure\n- Soil survey\n- Soil test\n- Soil texture\n- Soil type\n- Soil water (retention)\n- Soils retrogression and degradation\n- Solonchak\n- Solonetz\n- Specific storage\n- Specific weight\n- Spodic soils\n- Stagnosol\n- Strip farming\n- Stuttgart (soil)\n- Subaqueous soil\n- Subsidence\n- Subsoil\n- Suckiaug\n\nTalik\n- Tanana (soil)\n- Technosols\n- Tepetate\n- Terrace (agriculture)\n- Terracette\n- Terramechanics\n- Terra preta\n- Terra rosa (soil)\n- Terzaghi's Principle\n- Thaw depth\n- Thixotropy\n- Threebear (soil)\n- Throughflow\n- Tifton (soil)\n- Tillage\n- Topsoil\n- Tropical peat\n\nUmbric horizon\n- Ultisols\n- Umbrisols\n- Unified Soil Classification System\n- USDA soil taxonomy\n- Ustochrept\n\nVegetation and slope stability\n- Vertisol\n- Vibro stone column\n- Void ratio\n\nWater content\n- Weathering\n- Windsor (soil)\n- World Congress of Soil Science\n\nYedoma\n\n"}
{"id": "218406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218406", "title": "Intimate part", "text": "Intimate part\n\nAn intimate part, personal part or private part is a place on the human body which is customarily kept covered by clothing in public venues and conventional settings, as a matter of fashion and cultural norms. In several cultures, revealing these parts is seen as a religious offence.\n\nDefinitions vary, but usually they are primarily the parts involved in sexual arousal, procreation, and elimination of excreta and related matter, including:\n\nThe term \"intimate parts\" may be construed to mean only the external body parts that are visible when naked, rather than the body parts more commonly referred to. For example, when naked, a woman's pudendal cleft is predominantly visible rather than the vagina, and a man's scrotum is visible rather than the testes which are contained within.\n\nFemale breasts are considered as parts that would be covered in most contexts but with a degree of tolerance for toplessness varying in different regions and cultures. For example, Fischtein, Herold and Desmarais (2005) found that acceptance of toplessness in a sample of Canadians varied depending on both personal factors (such as the respondent's gender, age, and religion) and contextual factors (i.e. toplessness in streets, parks, or beaches).\n\nIn some periods of European history, female shoulders and legs may have been considered intimate parts. More conservative viewpoints in the West in some contexts still find it appropriate that females should cover their shoulders, particularly when entering a church or other sacred space.\n\nIn Islamic traditions, the definition of awrah is similar to the definition of intimate parts in Western culture. The extent of cover for the female body depends upon the situation, but may include the hair, shoulders, and neck in addition to the aforementioned \"intimate parts\". A majority of scholars agree that the entire body except the face and hands should be covered in public or in front of unrelated non-Muslim women and in front of unrelated men. The exceptions are the scholars from Hanafi school of thought, which has the largest number of followers, which agree that the feet are not part of the awrah and therefore may be revealed. For males, most scholars regard all parts of body from the navel to the knees as awrah.\n\nThe intentional exposure of one's intimate parts is a form of exhibitionism. Such exposure may be subject to strict social rules, social control and even criminal justice, if it is considered to be a form of indecent exposure. The unintentional exposure of intimate parts (as in the case of a \"wardrobe malfunction\") may be connected with feelings of shame.\n\nIntentionally touching the intimate parts of another person, even through clothing, is often associated with sexual intent. If this is done without legally valid consent of the person being touched, it is considered groping or in some cases sexual harassment or sexual assault.\n\nNaturism is a lifestyle choice that is characterized by the practice of nudity both alone and in groups. Some naturists hold that nakedness is not automatically a sexual state and that covering areas of the body is merely a social construct: they believe that the norms of society can be upheld even when all are nude.\n\n"}
{"id": "11728606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11728606", "title": "Ishida Eiichirō", "text": "Ishida Eiichirō\n\nAt the late age of 34, Ishida began following lectures there from March 1937. After Hitler's invasion and annexation of Austria, many of his teachers in ethnology, among them Father Wilhelm Schmidt, the world-famous linguist and anthropologist were forced into exile, and with the outbreak of World War II he himself was repatriated on the last available ship for Japanese nationals sailing from Bordeaux, the \"Kagoshima-maru\". \n\nHis expertise in ethnography was quickly turned to profitable uses on his return, and he finally received employment as member of a government organization interested in research on folk minorities in East Asia. In 1941, he surveyed the tribes of southern Sakhalin/Karafuto, such as the Gilyak (Nivkhs), the Ainu and the Oroks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4763849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4763849", "title": "List of Assyrian tribes", "text": "List of Assyrian tribes\n\nThis page features a list of Assyrian clans or tribes historically centered in the Hakkari, Sirnak and Mardin provinces in Turkey and West Azerbaijan Province in Iran, prior to 1915, or before Seyfo, when they were purely Assyrian settlements starting from around 3rd–4th century AD, before early 20th century resettlement in Northern Iraq (which simultaneously had Catholic-Assyrian tribes since the 1st millennium) and northwestern Syria (namely in Al-Hasakah) after they were displaced, slaughtered and driven out by Ottoman Turks in 1915 and in the early 1930s, respectively, during the Simele massacre where they endured a similar anguish and predicament.\n\nHaving lived in the ancient Assyrian cities of Nineveh, Assur, Nohadra, Arrapha and Arbela, which now lie in modern-day northern Iraq, before the common era (dating from around 2500 BC), they eventually settled, and found refuge, in the mountainous region that is now southeastern Turkey and northwestern Iran after the spread of Islam and their Christianization in post-classical history. The villages in southeastern Turkey are primarily centered in the modern-day towns of Yuksekova, Çukurca and Semdinli in Hakkâri (specifically the historical region of Hakkari), Uludere in Sirnak Province and Tur Abdin in Mardin Province.\n\nMost of the historical Assyrian tribes are located in the region stretching from Tur Abdin to Hakkari, in Upper Mesopotamia, which formed the Nairi lands, serving as the northern Assyrian frontier and border with their Urartian rivals. The Assyrians of this region were Nestorian Christians adhering to the Assyrian Church of the East and lived here until 1924, when the very last Assyrians who survived the Assyrian Genocide and massacres that occurred during 1918 were expelled. Most subsequently moved to the Nahla valley in northern Iraq or elsewhere.\n\nThe people of these tribes are an ancient people of Mesopotamia who speak Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, a modern Syriac language that's derived from old Aramaic and has influences of Akkadian. In the early-mid 20th century, most settled in Iraq, Jordan, Syria and Iran, where many eventually immigrated to the western world in recent years.\n\nFollowing the devastation of the urban centres of Mesopotamia at the hands of Timur, a Turkic military leader of the Mongol Empire subjugated Baghdad and the general area, destroying Tikrit, which effected the Syrian Orthodox Church which sheltered near Nineveh at Mar Mattai Monastery following the destruction of Christians in the region by Timur during the second part of the 14th century. The few survivors sought refuge among the Assyrians of Hakkari and the surrounding region, who have lived there since the Iron Age at time of the Neo-Assyrian Empire. This region also produced many bishops and patriarchs as hereditary succession was used to prevent a full ecclesiastical collapse of the church. By the 16th century, the Assyrians disappeared from many cities where they previously thrived, such as in Tabriz and Nisibis.\n\nBy now, the Assyrians were concentrated in a mountainous triangular region with its head at Lake Van and Lake Urmia and Mosul. The Church of the East lost some of its members in the few centuries following the Schism of 1552 to the Chaldean Catholic Church. The head of the Church of the East moved from Baghdad to Maragha in Urmia by 1553. Those living in Hakkari, however, were unaffected by the disputes and around 1600 the Chaldean Archbishop Shimun IX Dinkha broke away from Rome and moved to Qudshanis in Hakkari where he reintroduced the Shimun line hereditary patriarchy which continued until 1976. The Assyrians formed intricate alliances with neighbouring Kurdish tribes and their Ottoman lords, each tribe was led by a \"Malik\" () who also functioned as a military leader during wartime.\n\nIn the 19th century, several competing Kurdish centers began emerging in the region. Mir Muhammed, the Kurdish Emir of Soran based in Rawanduz was able to establish a powerful emirate and depose his rivals controlling a region stretching from Mardin to Persian Azerbaijan. He was however defeated in battle when he tried to subdue the Assyrians of Hakkari in 1838. The Ottomans, seeking to consolidate their control of the region, engaged him in a costly war which led eventually to the dissolution of his Emirate.\n\nAfter the fall of his main rival, Bedir Khan of Bohtan, Badr Khan sought to extend his dominion by annexing the Assyrian regions in Hakkari. He took advantage of a rift between the patriarch Shimun XVII Abraham and Nur Allah the Emir of Hakkari. Badr Khan allied with Nur Allah and attacked the Assyrians of Hakkari in the summer of 1843 massacring them and taking those who survived as slaves. Another massacre was inflicted in 1846 on the Assyrians of Tyari, also residing in Hakkari. The western powers, alarmed by the massacres pressured the Ottomans to intervene. Badr Khan was subsequently defeated and exiled to Crete in 1847.\n\nAlthough the region was nominally under Ottoman control since the 16th century, it was in reality administered by its Assyrian and Kurdish inhabitants and their lords. The situation changed after the Kurdish war as the Ottomans now were able to extend their full control unopposed, and in 1868 the Sandjaq of Hakkari was created.\n\nOn the eve of the First World War, patriarch Shimun XI Benyamin was promised preferential treatment in anticipation of the war. Shortly after the war began, however, Assyrian and Armenian settlements to the north of Hakkari were attacked and sacked by Kurdish irregulars allied with the Ottoman Army in the Assyrian Genocide. Others were forced into labour battalions and later executed.\n\nThe turning point was when the patriarch's brother was taken prisoner as he was studying in Constantinople. The Ottomans demanded Assyrian neutrality and executed him as a warning. In return, the patriarch declared war on the Ottomans on 10 April 1915.\n\nThe Assyrians were immediately attacked by Kurdish irregulars backed by the Ottomans, driving most of the Assyrians of Hakkari to the mountain tops, as those who stayed in their villages were killed. Shimun Benjamin was able to move unnoticed to Urmia, which at the time was under Russian control, and tried to persuade them to send a relief force to the besieged Assyrians. When the Russians replied that the request was unreasonable, he returned to Hakkari and led the surviving 50,000 Assyrians through the mountains to safety in Urmia. Thousands perished from cold and hunger during this march.\n\nDuring the peace conferences in Paris in 1919, the Assyrians asked for a state in Diyarbekir and northern Mesopotamia in Iraq; others requested a British protectorate in Upper Mesopotamia, northern Mosul, and Urmia. The Assyrians tried to retake the region, but the Turks and Kurds objected to the Nestorian Christians desire to retake their ancestral lands in Hakkari, and an attempt to occupy the region by Agha Petros failed. In 1924 Turkey formally occupied northern Hakkari and expelled the last Christian inhabitants who still remained in the region. However, Assyrians still live in the Southern Barwari region of the Hakkari mountains, and in the Sapna and Nahla valleys.\n\nQalanis is situated in the district of Albaq in Yüksekova, Hakkari province, Turkey. Prior to 1915 it was a purely Assyrian settlement, home to more than 25 households with three churches.\n\nLocated in Dilek, Oğul, Hakkari, the village of Be-Aziza was home to nearly 50 households prior to 1915, with two ancient churches. The largest and most important of these was dedicated to St. George. The village takes its name from the historic figure of King Aziz of Tal, who lived in the 4th-5th centuries AD and was the father of St. Talya (Mar Tlaye). In 1935, many Assyrians from Be-Aziza, who are called \"Aziznaye\", were resettled, with other Assyrians from Tal, in the village of Tell-Tal, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria.\n\nSituated to the northwest of Upper Tyari in Hakkari, Turkey, Upper Barwaris speak a dialect very similar to Jilu and Diz people – Rather distinct to those in the Lower Barwari in Northern Iraq, who speak more like those of the Lower Tyari tribes. \"Barwar\" is \"village\" in Kurdish. Furthermore, unlike those in the Lower Barwari, the tribes in the Upper Barwar area do not identify as \"Barwari\" but rather with the names of their own individual tribes listed below. \n\nLocated in Kolbaşı, Yüksekova, the village of Shwawuta (from the Assyrian word meaning \"neighborhood\") was one of the three centres of the Upper Barwar district in Hakkari. Prior to 1915 it was a purely Assyrian settlement, home to more than 20 households with two churches. A group of Assyrians from Upper Barwar settled in the village of Tell-Misas, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nThe village of Qudshanis, traditionally called \"Qodchanis\" (and also spelled \"Qudshanes\", \"Kotchanes\", \"Qochanis\" or \"Kocanis\"), located in Konak, Hakkari, was home to the family of the Catholicos-Patriarch of the Church of the East - the Shimun XIX Benyamin. Its main church of St. Shallita, built at the turn of the 17th century, therefore served as the patriarchal cathedral of the Church of the East from its founding in 1692 until 1918. The neighboring tribes were subservient to the Patriarch, based in Qochanis, and paid him taxes, with which the patriarch then gave to the Ottomans. The confederation was in effect almost like a vassal state ruled by the Ottoman Empire, and even then the Assyrians were not subservient to the Sultan, but rather the Patriarch. Hence why upon his declaration of war in 1915 the tribes of the region immediately went into open rebellion against the Turks before they were forced off of their ancestral lands in the Assyrian Genocide, never to return again.\n\nThe village was founded in 1672 by Chaldean Catholics from the city of Amida, who upon settling here broke off with the Catholic church and founded a new branch of the Assyrian Church of the East in 1692, ruled by the Shimun line. From that point on the village functioned as the de facto capital of the Assyrian tribes in the region. The Patriarch residing in the Church of Mār Shalīṭa enjoyed both spiritual and political power over his subjects. Since priests were required to remain celibates the patriarchy moved from uncle to nephew. This system came to be known as \"\" ( \"Guardian of the throne\"), and by the 19th century this system was applied to all dioceses of Hakkari. A group of Assyrians from Qudshanis settled in the villages of Tell-Hufyan and Tell-Damsheej, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. In Tell-Hufyan they built a new church dedicated to St. Shallita, and in Tell-Damsheej they built a new church dedicated to St. John.\n\nQotranis and Khardalanis, located in Ördekli ve Tepeli, Hakkari, had about 30 households with ancient churches dedicated to St. George and the Virgin Mary. Khardalanis was inhabited by roughly 20 households with an ancient church. In 1935, many Assyrians from Upper Barwar were resettled in the village of Tel Misas, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. A number of them also now live in Russia, in the cities of Moscow, St. Petersburg, Rostov-on-Don, as well as in the North Caucasus and Volga regions.\n\nLocated in Konak, Hakkari, the district of Baz was home to 6 villages, which were purely inhabited by Assyrians before 1915. Their population numbered over 500 households, and they had 12 churches. There was also one Kurdish village in a nearby valley, Towal (Tohumlu), which fell under the jurisdiction of the Assyrians of Baz. In 1922, the Assyrians of Baz were mostly settled in villages of Dohuk and Nineveh provinces in northern Iraq. A group of them settled in the villages of Tell-Rumman Fawqani and Tell-Baz, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\nBaz is to the east of Jilu and Gawar, respectively, and they have similar dialects.\n\nLocated in Ağaçsız, Oğul, Hakkari, the village of Be-Darayé was home to nearly 30 households, with two ancient churches. The largest and most essential of these was dedicated to Mammes of Caesarea, while the other was dedicated to Mar Qardagh. The village is named after the Aramaic word \"Darra\" (meaning battled, and could mean \"Place of the Battle\", or \"Home of the Warriors.\" In 1935, many Assyrians from Be-Darayé were resettled, with other Assyrians from Tal, in the village of Tell Tal, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. Others can now be found in Russia and other republics of the Former Soviet Union, as well as in the United States, Canada, Germany and Greece.\n\nLocated in Göze, Hakkari, it is also known as Be-Banaye (\"the place of the builders\"). The village had about 20 households with an ancient church dedicated to Mar Shim'on Bar-Sabba'e, a martyred 4th century Catholicos-Patriarch of the Church of the East. In 1935 the Assyrians of Be-Ikta were resettled along the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in the village of Tell-Tal.\n\nLocated in Gülyazı, Uludere, Şırnak Province, Bejo was a purely Assyrian settlement prior to 1925. In 1914 it was home to about 500 people and 100 families, with two ancient churches. Around the mid-19th century the Assyrians of Bejo converted from the Church of the East to Catholicism and came under the authority of the Chaldean Patriarchate of Babylon. Because of Bejo's location right on the Iraqi-Turkish border, the villagers were expelled by the Turkish military in 1925. After their final expulsion from Turkey, the Assyrians of Bejo (\"Bejwaye\") were resettled in a new village which they named Bejo (or Bajwa), near Zakho in north Iraq. This village had a population of 79 as per the 1957 Iraqi census. Its inhabitants were again moved out in 1976 by the Iraqi authorities and have not yet been able to return to their homes.\n\nLocated in around Cizre in Bohtan Plains in Sirnak province, the mountainous district of Barwar d-Bohtan (Pervari), straddles the Bohtan River (Botan Çayı), which is a tributary of the Tigris River. Prior to 1915, this area contained more than 20 Assyrian settlements, with about 30 churches and monasteries. Up to 6,000 Assyrians resided there, belonging mostly to the Chaldean Catholic Church and the Church of the East. The spiritual centre of the district was the village of Atel, which was the seat of an important bishopric. In the early 20th century, many Assyrian families escaped to Dawodiya in northern Iraq after the persecution of Ottoman authorities.\n\nLocated in Çukurca, within the ancient Tyari realm, in village of Be-Biyya, in the district of Chal, Chal was home to about 15 households with a church dedicated to St. George. The Assyrians of Be-Biyya were mostly resettled in the village of Tell-Breej, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. There they built a new church dedicated to St. George.\n\nDiz have a dialect similar to Jilu people where they shorten the vowels, but to a high extent (\"raba\" or plenty, is \"riba\"), drop the \"t\" in some words and/or use 'y\" instead (\"beta\" or \"house\" is \"biya\" and \"mata\" or \"village\" is \"ma\"). \"Ta\" (\"come\") in Standard Assyrian is \"hay\" in Diz. Like the Tyari people, they say \"hon lakha\" (\"I'm here\") as instead of \"don lakha\" in Standard Assyrian. \n\nPrior to the First World War, the small and stray village of Irk in the Upper Zab Valley, in Depin, Hakkari, was at times associated with the main town of Julamerk and at others with the Assyrian tribal district of Diz. Around that time, its population numbered approximately 30 households, with an ancient church dedicated to St. George. It is not known if the former Assyrian inhabitants of this village have any descendants anywhere in the world today.\n\nMar Quryaqus is located in Kırıkdağ, Hakkari. At that time it was home to about 5 households, with an ancient church dedicated to St. Cyriacus. The church was well known for its healing properties, and maniacal people would often be locked inside it overnight to be healed. In 1935, many Assyrians from Diz were settled in the villages of Tell-Balu'ah and Qabr-Shamiyah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. Others can now be found in Russia and other countries of the Assyrian diaspora.\n\nPrior to 1915, Kursin was a purely Assyrian settlement with 35 households and an ancient church dedicated to St. Sava. The Assyrians of Diz were largely resettled in the villages of Tell-Balu'ah and Qabr-Shamiyah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. It is located in Gümüşlü, Hakkari.\n\nLocated in Seravinis, Kırıkdağ, Saramus was home to about 20 households, with an ancient church dedicated to St. George. In 1935, many Assyrians from Diz were settled in the villages of Tell-Balu'ah and Qabr-Shamiyah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria.\n\nLocated in Diraşaban, Kırıkdağ, Rabban Dadishu was home to about 20 households, with a 4th-century ancient monastery dedicated to Rabban Dadishu (the monk, St. Dad-Isho'). In 1935, many Assyrians from Diz were settled in the villages of Tell-Balu'ah and Qabr-Shamiyah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. They can also be found in Moscow, Taganrog, Vladikavkaz and the North Caucasus region of Russia, as well as in Ukraine.\n\nLocated in Kırıkdağ, Hakkari, the village was home to more than 15 households, with an ancient church dedicated to the Virgin Mary. In 1935, many Assyrians from Diz were settled in the villages of Tell-Balu'ah and Qabr-Shamiyah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria.\n\nLocated in Ovası and Dereiçi in Yüksekova, the Gawar plain was home to over 35 Assyrian villages, 30 churches and about 1,000 households up until 1915. The district centre was the town of Dizza d-Gawar (modern-day Yüksekova). People of Jilu and Gawar were very consanguineous and had close ties with each other, and speak the same dialect of Neo Aramaic.However, Jilu is to the east while Gawar is more proximate to the Tkhuma or Baz. Urisha was a purely Assyrian settlement prior to 1915, with a population of more than 20 households. Its church was dedicated to St. Sava the Physician, and was a major centre of pilgrimage in the Gawar Plain. A group of Assyrians from Gawar and Urisha settled in the villages of Tell-Maghas and Tell-Jadaya, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. Others settled in Northern Iraq.\n\nLocated in Cevizağacı, Beytüşşebap, Şırnak Province, Gaznakh has always been a purely Assyrian settlement. Its modern Turkish name means \"walnut tree\", due to the predominance of walnut trees in the village. In the second half of the 19th century it was home to nearly 100 households. The many sacred sites around the village included the monastery of St. John, and churches dedicated to St. Isaiah, St. Gawsa, St. Shmuni and St. Gabriel. Originally, those in the village were adherents to the Church of the East. After the 1920s, though, with the rest of their community having been banished from Turkey, they turned to either the Chaldean Catholic and Syriac Orthodox Churches in order to be supplemented with the fundamental spiritual and sacramental necessities.\n\nThe Assyrians of Gaznakh were not forced out of their village in either 1915 or 1924/5, and remained there until the conflict between the Turkish military and rebels from the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) got worse in 1988. The district of Beytüşşebap, in which Gaznakh is located, remained part of Hakkari province until 1990, when it added to the newly-created province of Şırnak. At that time there were at least 300 Assyrians living in Gaznakh, but by 1995 all of them had left. By 2000 it was estimated that there were as many as 1,600 Gaznakh people dispersed in countries such as Turkey, Iraq, France, and Belgium.\n\nIn 2004, Assyrians began to return to Gaznakh, spearheading a movement in which another 3 Assyrian villages have also been resettled by their former inhabitants, in the same province. Currently, there are about 50 Assyrians who live in Gaznakh all year round, with many more returning to spend their holidays there in the summer months. The village has electricity, telephone lines, running water, and is accessible by way of an unsealed dirt road.\n\nLocated in Gövelek, Van Province, Harmanis was a mixed settlement in the Timar district of Van around Lake Ercheg. It was home to roughly 30 Assyrian households (150 people) with a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary. The village also had a population of 3 Armenian families (24 people) and 50 Kurds families (250 people). Some Assyrians from Harmanis were settled in the village of Umm al-Kayf, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nLocated in Kamber, Yüksekova, Iyil was housed 90 families with an ancient church dedicated to Rabban Mar Yonan (the saint and monk Jonah). Its name probably derives from the Aramaic phrase \"'Ayna d-El\", meaning God's spring. This was the birthplace of Mar Thoma Darmo, first Catholicos-Patriarch of the Ancient Church of the East, and many well-known Assyrians originate from here. A group of Assyrians from Iyil settled in the village of Tell-Jazirah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. There they built a new church dedicated to Rabban Mar Yonan. Significantly, the Rabban Mar Yonan church at Iyil is now the first Assyrian church in Hakkari province to undergo a major and official restoration project.\n\nLocated between the tribes of Baz and Gawar. The Tyari tribes are just to the west. Its speakers tend to have a distinct dialect, with shortened vowels, where /a/ turns into /e/ (e.g. \"raba\" or \"plenty\" is \"reba\"). They tend drop the \"t\" in some words and/or use 'y\" instead (\"kteta\" or \"\"chicken\" is \"kteya\" and \"khata\" or \"sister\"\" is \"kha\"). \"Ta\" in Standard Assyrian (meaning \"come\") is \"hiya\" in the Jilu dialect. Those of Baz and Gawar tribes may also have these features in their speech, but it's mostly Jilu people that have retained these conservative sounds in the modern era. \nLocated in Demirli, Yüksekova, Alsan was native to roughly 100 households with an ancient church dedicated to St. Michael. Nearby Meedi, was a mixed settlement of Assyrians and Kurds under the jurisdiction of Greater Jilu. Before 1915 there were about 10 Assyrian households in that village.\n\nLocated in Yeşiltaş, Yüksekova, the Ishtāzin valley was a sub-district of Jīlū. This long valley, which runs from northwest to southeast, near a tributary of the Great Zab. By the 1840s it was the only Kurdish-inhabited village in the Ishtāzin valley. In 1850 the Assyrian population of these villages was about 250 households, and by 1915 they would have increased to about 450 families. There were also five churches in the Ishtāzin valley, two of which were dedicated to St. George and St. Mary. The Assyrians of Ishtāzin were led by a Malik (chieftain), who resided in the village of Samsikké. After 1918, the Assyrians of Ishtāzin were dispersed. Many of them went on to form communities in Georgia, Iran, and also in Russia, Iraq and Syria.\n\nThe village of Mar Zay'a, in Çevrecik, Yüksekova, was a purely Assyrian settlement occupied by 70 households before 1915. Its ancient church was built by St. Zaya and his disciple St. Tavor in 427 AD. For centuries the village served as the seat of the Mar Sargis metropolitan bishops of Jilu, whose jurisdiction also extended as far as the districts of Baz, Tkhuma and Rekan. The church of Sts. Zay'a and Tavor served as their cathedral. The Assyrians of Mata d-Mar Zay'a were mostly settled in the village of Khirsheniya, in the Dohuk province of north Iraq, in 1922. Most of them, however, went on to create urban neighbourhoods, such as the Jilu Camp (Camp al-Sikak) in Baghdad, Jilo Mahallesi in Kirkuk and Sarbaz in Tehran.\n\nLocated in İkiyaka, Yüksekova, Sāt (also known as Sāten) was mixed Assyrian-Kurdish settlement. The Upper and Middle sections of the village were occupied by Kurds, the Lower part was populated solely by Assyrians. At that time, it was home to more than 300 people with an ancient church dedicated to St. Mārī the Apostle and Proselytiser of the East, and a village school run by the local Chaldean Catholic priest. The church was significant as being the only one in the Hakkâri highlands dedicated to that particular saint, and it was believed to have been built in the 3rd or 4th century AD. Also near the village was a mountain shrine called \"Mārī'm\", sacrosanct to both Christian Assyrians and Muslim Kurds alike.\n\nLocated in Mutluca, Beytüşşebap, Şırnak Province, the village of Kespiyanish is now a Kurdish settlement and it is not mentioned in any Syriac sources, manuscripts, or travelers' accounts from the 19th and 20th centuries. Its name though is similar to that of other known Assyrian villages, such as Minyanish, Sharanish, Alanish, Maranish, Azyanish, etc. Furthermore, author and scholar Gordon Taylor reported that, when he visited Kespiyanish in 1977, he was shown the intact structure of the village's old Assyrian church. It is not known if this structure still stands today.\n\nLocated in Geçitli Bucağı, Hakkari, the district of Lewin (Levin) is located in the northwest of Hakkari province and contained roughly 11 Assyrian settlements, with about 7 churches and monasteries before 1915. Up to 3,600 Assyrians (about 600 families) lived there, all of whom belonged to the Church of the East. The religious centre of the district was the village of Mata d-‘Umra d-Mar Giwargis d-Khargil which, in 1607, was the seat of a bishop named Mar Dinkha. In 1935, many Assyrians from Lewin were resettled in the village of Tell-Kayfchi, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. There they built a new church dedicated to St. George of Khargil.\n\nLocated in Sarıkaya, Yüksekova, on the Turkish-Iranian border, close to the tribes in Targavar Rural District in Iran, Mar b'Ishu was inhabited by roughly 350 menages. It was home to a 5th century monastery dedicated to St. Beh-Isho' of Kmol, which was destroyed in the war between the Turkish military and the PKK in the 1980s. At the end of the 19th century, the Kurds ravaged the villages in Mar Bisho with so many of the residents fleeing to Iran, where they founded seven villages in Bradost, eight in Margawar and seventeen in Tergawar. A group of Assyrians from Mar-Bhishu settled in the village of Tell-Shamiran, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. Others settled in the village of Qal'ah d-Qasha Avner, near Urmia in Iran. In both villages they built new churches in honor of St. Beh-Isho'.\n\nSituated in Yemişli, Uludere in the Şırnak Province, Marga was a purely Assyrian settlement prior to 1925. Its name in Syriac means a pasture or meadow. In 1914 it was home to about 800 people (150 families), with an ancient church dedicated to St. Abraham. Around the mid-19th century the Assyrians of Marga converted from the Church of the East to Catholicism and came under the authority of the Chaldean Patriarchate of Babylon. Because of Marga's location right on the Iraqi-Turkish border, the villagers were displaced by the Turkish military in 1925. After their final banishment from Turkey, the Assyrians of Marga were resettled in the villages of Levo, Navkandala and Pirakka, near Zakho in north Iraq. In Levo they built a new church dedicated to St. Abraham. The largest community of \"Margaye\" outside the Middle East is now in Melbourne, Australia. Margaye people are known to pronounce words that have a T sound with an S, so for instance \"beta\" ('house') will be \"besa\". This is a feature also present in the Senaya dialect, an Assyrian variety based in Iranian Kurdistan.\n\nLocated on the eastern periphery of Hakkari, on the Turkey-Iran border. The Nochiya dialect is the most similar to Urmian of the Hakkari varieties, where they pronounce words akin to those of Standard Assyrian or Iraqi Koine (\"beta\", \"kteta\", \"ta\", \"dooli\"). Unlike the Urmian dialect though, they lack Farsi influence, such as the use of [v] instead of [w], and they would use an [e] sound instead of [i] for \"ika\" (\"where\"), just like the other adjacent Hakkari dialects. Moreover, some varieties may say \"msawoteh\" (\"speaking\"), akin to the Tyari dialects, instead of \"hamzomeh\", which is in Urmian and Standard Assyrian.\n\nIn Targavar Rural District, there are 1,019 Assyrians in the purely Assyrian town of Mavana, along with a few thousand more in other villages throughout the district and in the Margavar Rural District to the south.\n\nLocated in Çubuklu, Şemdinli, Benture was home to more than 20 households with an ancient church. Its name may derive from the Syriac phrase \"Beth-Naturé\", which means \"Place of the Guards\", but most likely comes from the Syriac phrase \"Bayn-Turé\", meaning \"Between the Mountains\". The Kurdish name for the region around the village derives from the phrase \"Nav-Çiya\", which also has the same definition. In 1922 the Assyrians of Benturé were mostly relocated in villages of Iraq's Erbil province. Some were later resettled in the village of Fell-Faydhah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nBé-Dīwé, in Beyyurdu, Şemdinli, was home to upwards of 25 households with two ancient churches dedicated to St. John the Baptist and St. Cyriacus, as well as a shrine to St. 'Avdā. The name Bé-Dīwé is Assyrian, and derives from the Syriac or Aramaic phrase Beth-Dīvé, meaning, \"Home of the Wolves\". In 1922 the Assyrians of Bé-Dīwé (Bādūnāyé) were mostly resettled in villages of Iraq's Erbil governorate. Some of them were later resettled in the village of Fell-Faydhah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\nLocated in Soğuksu, Şemdinli was home to upwards of 30 homes. Nearby Tīs had the ancient monastery of Mār Dinkhā. The last bishop of this family was killed by invading Ottoman personnel outside the village of Charbash, near Urmia (Iran), in February 1915, during the Assyrian Genocide. The former Catholicos-Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East, Mar Dinkha IV, belongs to this family, and Tīs is his ancestral village. In 1922 the Assyrians of Tīs and 'Umra were mostly relocated in the village of Darbandoke in Iraq's Erbil province. Some of them were later resettled in the village of Fell-Faydhah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nLocated in Öveç, Şemdinli in Hakkari, Saranus was home to as much as 40 households with an ancient church ordained to the Virgin Mary, Mother of Christ. In 1922 the Assyrians of Sarunis were mostly resettled in the villages of Hinnare and Darbandoke in Iraq's Erbil province. Some of them were later relocated in the village of Fell-Faydhah, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nIn modern-day Şemdinli, Hakkari, the district of Nochiya (Navçiya, Dağ İçinde) was flecked with more than 30 Assyrian communities preceding 1915. At that time, over 700 Assyrian families dwelled there, and they had approximately 34 churches and monasteries. The name Shapatan goes back to ancient times, when it was a province of the Assyrian Empire. The Assyrians of Nochiya were mostly settled in villages of Erbil province in northern Iraq, such as Diyana, Hawdiyan, Harir, Batas and Darbandoke, in 1922. A few relocated in the village of Tell-Faydah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nSituated in Yaylak, Şemdinli, the village of Rustaqa was the spiritual capital of the Nochiya district's Assyrian Christians. Before 1915 it was a purely Assyrian settlement inhabited by 25 households, including that of the Matran family. It was both home to a 5th century monastery dedicated to St. Isho', as well as the seat of the Mar Khnanishu metropolitans of the Church of the East. Rustaqa was the birthplace of St. Mar Yosip Khnanishu. The Assyrians of Rustaqa were mostly settled in the village of Harir, in Erbil province of north Iraq, in 1922.\n\nJust to the east of Tyari and southwest of Jilu, they have a dialect similar to Tyari, except they say \"\"sha\" for \"ta\" ('come') whereas Tyari people say \"hayo\"\".\n\nLying in Kaynaklı, Çukurca, Berijaye contained three churches, the largest of which was dedicated to St. Cyriacus (Mar Quryaqus), located outside the village near a water-powered mill - called Dêra Laşawê by local Kurds today. The others were dedicated to St. George (Mar Gewargis) and St. Jonah. It was one of the last villages to capitulate on 15 September 1915, when the Assyrians were forced out of Hakkari by Ottoman troops and their Kurdish allies. The Assyrians of Berijaye were mostly settled in the hamlet of Tell-Mukhadah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. There they built a new church dedicated to St. Cyriacus.\n\nLocated in Çeltik, Çukurca, the village was the literal centre of the Tkhuma Assyrian tribal district. Prior to the First World War it was a purely Assyrian settlement, inhabited by 650 Assyrian families. It was also home to an ancient church dedicated to St. Shallita, and was the residence of the chieftains or maliks of Tkhuma. The Assyrians of Tkhuma Gawaya were mostly resettled in the villages of Tell-Hirmiz and Umm-Ghargan, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. In Tell-Hirmiz, they built a new church dedicated to St. Shallita.\n\nSituated in what's now Başak, Çukurca, to the west of Baz and Jelu and just east of Tyari, it was home to 350 families. Its ancient church was dedicated to St. Ananias of the Oaths (Beth-Khanya d-Momatha). Local Kurds now know the church as Derâ Miskin. This church was notable for a cross called the \"Oath Cross\". The belief was that if someone incorrectly swore an oath on this cross they would suddenly die. The Assyrians of Gundiktha speak a dialect similar to Tyari people. They mostly settled in the villages of Tell-Sakrah and Tell-Shamah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. In each village they built a church dedicated to St. Ananias.\n\nLocated in Yapraklı, Çukurca contained 75 families and featured an ancient church dedicated to the 4th century Martyr Saint and Catholicos Mar Shim'on Bar-Sabba'e. It was one of the last villages to surrender on 15 September 1915, when the Assyrians were forced out of Hakkari by Ottoman troops and their Kurdish allies. The Assyrians of Gissa were mostly settled in the village of Tell-Kharitah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nIn Manastırı, Çukurca, it was home to 300 families before Seyfo. Its Turkish name today is Yaylak. Its spiritual centre was the 4th century Monastery of Rabban Pithyon, which was also a highly regarded place of pilgrimage across the Hakkari highlands, famed for its golden cross. This monastery is located between Mazra'ya and nearby Tkhuma Gawaya, and is known to local Kurds as Derâ Berujî. It was established by the monk Rabban Pithyon, who was a nephew and disciple of St. Eugene. The Assyrians of Mazra'ya were mostly settled in the villages of Tell-Rumman Tahtani and Tell-Wardiyat, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nTyari lies on the western periphery of the Hakkari province, with some villages being just within the Sirnak province. Tyari (and incidentally, Barwari) people have a distinguishable dialect which features, and rather retains, the conservative voiceless \"th\" and voiced \"th\" sounds instead of dental stops, \"t\" and \"d\", which are used in many other Assyrian dialects. A distinctive feature among Tyari speakers is saying \"hayo\" for \"ta\" (\"come\") and \"hola\" for \"doola\" (\"there\"). Each Tyari village will have subtle dialect differences. Most of the Assyrians from Lower Tyari resettled in Northern Iraq.\n\nAn Assyrian tribe in Ortaköy, Uludere, just south of Geramon and Halmon. Located in Sirnak province, it closely borders the Hakkari province and also the Iraq border. The Sirnak portion is known as \"Ārosh Taxtayta\" (Lower Arosh) and the Hakkari part is called \"Ārosh Alayta\" (Upper Arosh), which is now designated as Yukariarus, a small hamlet. Due to the close proximity of the tribes, some Arosh people have mixed with those in Geramon, which lies a few kilometers north of the tribe, and they may be confused for them.\n\nLocated in Çığlı, Çukurca, Ashita was home to nearly 800 families with a church dedicated to St. George and a shrine to St. Abraham. The village was divided into the following quarters: Isroor, Meweetha, Matha d-'Umra (Khateebin), Chammaneh and Chammaneh Khtaitha. The name Ashitha comes from the Assyrian word meaning \"avalanche\", because a part of the village is prone to that natural phenomenon. Even the modern Turkish name of the village, Çığlı, comes from the Turkish word Çığ, meaning \"avalanche\". In 1922, the Assyrians of Ashitha were mostly resettled in villages of Nineveh Governorate and Dohuk provinces in northern Iraq, mainly in Sharafiya, Bakhetme and Sarsing. Furthermore, most Tyari Assyrians tend to be from Ashita (\"Ashetnaye\") and it is one of the most common Assyrian tribe.\n\nSituated in Taşlık, Çukurca, Belatha was home to 100 families, and was also the village where the chiefs of Lower Tyare resided. Belatha is held to be one of the four original villages of the Tyare districts. Many Assyrians from the districts of Upper Tyare and Tkhuma, as well as the Be-Nikho and Be-Majje clans of Ashitha, have their heritage here. Above the village was the ancient monastery of St. Babai, which still stands today. The name Belatha comes from the Syriac phrase \"Beth-'Allatha,\" meaning \"place of fruits\" or \"place of crops\". It may also derive from the Syriac phrase \"Beth-'Ilyatha,\" meaning \"place of the heights\". The Assyrian dance \"Belati\" originate from this village. After 1924, Assyrians from Belatha settled in several villages of north of Amadiya and in the Nahla valley in the district of 'Aqrah in Iraq. In the 1960s, the Assyrians of Chamme-Sineh were forced out by Kurds and eventually resettled in the nearby village of Kashkawa.\n\nLocated in Yarma, Uludere in Sirnak province, in the valleys (Galliyane) west of Tyare, Geramon was home to more than 80 households, containing a 6th-century church that was dedicated to St. John the Arab. From 1922 onward, the Assyrians of Geramon immigrated to Iraq. Its inhabitants are called \"Geresenayeh\". Due to its very close proximity to Halmon, the tribes share a cultural symbiosis and have an affinity towards each other. As such, many Assyrians from Iraq fallaciously consider \"Halmonaye\" as being \"Geresnaye\", whereas those from Syria, conversely, label people from Geramon as \"Halmonaye\". Moreover, \"Aroshnaye\" are a tribe within their vicinity who may also be confused for either of them.\n\nLocated in Andaç, Uludere, Halmon is around 500 meters away from Geramon (Yarma, which is now part of Andaç as well) and, as such, the two groups are affiliated with each other and have intermarried. The village consisted of over 60 households, with a 4th century church dedicated to St. Shmuni. The Assyrians of Halmon were eventually settled in the village of Cham-Suske, in the Dohuk province of northern Iraq, in 1922, after violence and persecution. Afterwards, some were resettled in the village of Tell-Jum'ah, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nThere are many Assyrian songs that have the word \"Halmon\" in their titles and lyrics. The songs are usually associated with the Assyrian folk dance. Adwar Mousa is a prominent Assyrian singer and lyricist from Halmon.\n\nUnlike other Assyrian tribes, Halmonites are the only speakers who have retained the classical Syriac diphthong in words like \"psheyna\" (\"greetings\") and \"kheyla\" (\"power\"), where in other dialects and also Standard Assyrian speech (or Iraqi Koine), the monophthong /ɛ/ is used instead. Nonetheless, in formal speech, hymns and some forms of nationalistic music, /ɛ/ may be diphthongized in Standard Assyrian as well.\n\nIn Köprülü, Çukurca, Lizan was contained 80 households with an ancient church dedicated to St. George. The Assyrians of Lizan were forced out of their village in 1915 and again in 1924. The village was known for its famous bridge, which spanned the Upper Zab River between Lizan and the Kurdish village of Geyman. As such, the contemporary Turkish name for the village means \"bridged\". Currently, the church of St. George in Lizan is being used as a barracks by the Turkish military, which supervises the nearby Kurdish village of Geyman, as well as the Iraqi border nearby. The Assyrians of Lizan originated from the village of Matha d-Qasra (Qasran, now known as Güllüce). After 1925 the Assyrians of Lizan were resettled in the districts of Barwari-Bala and Nahla in northern Iraq's Dohuk and Ninawa governorates.\n\nLocated in Güzeldere, Çukurca, Minyānish was one of the largest villages in Lower Tyāré inhabited by more than 100 menages. The four ancient churches of the village were dedicated to the Virgin Mary, St. Shmuni, Rabbān Yāqu and Rabbān Sāhdā. The Assyrians of Minyānish are believed to originate from the ancient village of Lagippā, also in Lower Tyāré, and they must have settled there sometime prior to the 10th century, over 1,000 years ago. After 1924, the Assyrians of Minyānish were settled in northern Iraq. Their most important settlement there, right now, is the village of Kashkāwā in the Nahlā Valley north of the town of 'Aqrah (Akre). Unlike the other Lower Tyari tribes, they use \"sh\" sound instead of \"th\" or \"t\" – So \"beta\" (\"house\") will be \"besha\".\n\nAn Assyrian settlement just to the south of Minyanish, in Cukurca.\n\nAn Assyrian village near Çukurca. Zawita in Northern Iraq was named after this village, after the Assyrians settled there.\n\nThe valley of Upper Tyare, in Hakkari, straddles the banks of the Upper Zab River. Up until 1915, this valley contained 20 purely Assyrian settlements (not including those in side valleys, such as Koh, Malota d-Malik, Mabbuwa, Rumta, Qallayatha, Sarspidho, etc.). At that time, these 20 settlements contained as much as 450 Assyrian families with 8 ancient churches. The dialects of the Assyrians in the Upper Tyari area, unlike those in Lower Tyari, generally use an \"sh\" sound instead of \"th\" for words like \"beta\" (\"besha\"), meaning \"house\"\n\nThe Assyrian settlements in the Upper Zab valley of Uper Tyare included: Zorawa, Chamba d-Badal, Dizza, Chamba Khadta (Chamba d-Mira), Darawa d-Walto, Chamba d-Hasso, Roma Smoqa, Be-Mariggo, Chamba d-Kurkhe, Dadosh, Chamba d-Tuwan, Be-Dalyatha, Chamba d-Malik, Be-Samano, Chamba d-Rora, Mazra d-Rumta, Chamba d-Be-Eliya, Chamba d-Qurdaye and \"Siyadhor.\n\nThe descendants of Assyrians from the Upper Tyare valley now live in the village of Kore-Gavana in northern Iraq's Dohuk province, as well as the villages of Tell-Tamr and Tell Tawil on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria.\n\nIn Kaynaklı, Hakkari, Mazra d-Rumta was a purely Assyrian settlement home to roughly 5 households. This was one of the more than 10 hamlets in the Rumta sub-district of Upper Tyare, known in Kurdish as Rumtik or Rindke. The village of Mazra d-Rumta was based around the 5th century Monastery of St. Sava, which was a major pilgrimage site and served as an abode for the patriarchs of the Church of the East, whenever they would visit the Upper Tyare valley. Most Assyrians from Rumta were resettled in the village of Tel-Taweel, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. Unlike the majority of Tyari tribes, they use \"sh\" sound instead of \"th\" or \"t\" – So \"beta\" (\"house\"), which is in standard Assyrian, will be \"besha\". \nLocated in Geçimli, Hakkari, Qalaytha (or Kelayta) was home to roughly 65 households. Their main church was built in 1818 and was dedicated to Christ's Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem (Qaddishta). Other shrines in the village were dedicated to St. John and St. Abba Macarius. Today the village, which has been repopulated by Kurds, mainly serves as the location of an important Turkish military base. The Assyrians of Qalayatha were largely resettled in Tell-Tamr, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935.\n\nSituated in the modern village of Olgunlar in Hakkari, the village was home to more than 60 households and was the residence of the Maliks of Upper Tyare. The ancient church in was dedicated to St. Sergius the Martyr (Mar Sargis). There was also a monastery near the village dedicated to St. Abraham, where the Chaldean Catholic bishop Mar Abraham d-Bet Mar Shimun died in 1915. In 1935, the Assyrians of Chamba d-Malik (\"Chammanaye\") were relocated in the village of Tell-Tamr, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. There they built a new church dedicated to St. Sergius and St. George, which belongs to the Ancient Church of the East.\n\nLocated in Ceylanlı, Hakkari, the villages of Khidhyana and Resha d-Nahra (\"Head of the River\") were purely Assyrian settlements. At that time, Khidhyana was had about 100 Assyrian households with an ancient church dedicated to St. John. Resha d-Nahra was inhabited by roughly 50 households and its church was dedicated to the Virgin Mary. In 1935, most of the Assyrians of Khidhyana and Resha d-Nahra were resettled in the village of Tell Nasri, on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria. There, with other Assyrians from the Walto valley, they built a new church dedicated to the Virgin Mary.\n\nLocated in Sütçüler, Hakkari, the village of Sirta was home to at least 80 households. It was situated in the district of Walto, and its church was dedicated to St. John. The Assyrians of Sirta were mostly resettled in the village of Tell-Nasri, along the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. There, they inhabit their own neighbourhood in a village populated only by other Assyrians from the Walto district.\n\nLocated in Derav, Hakkari, its Assyrian name means \"the end of the river\", since it was located at the concourse of the Walto River with the Upper Zab. Its more ancient name, found in Syriac manuscripts, is \"Tra'-Nahra\" (meaning the River's Gate). Prior to 1915, Ishta d-Nahra was home to more than 30 Assyrian households, with an ancient church dedicated to St. Eugene the Blessed (Mar Awgin, or Mar Marogen), who lived in the 4th century. The Assyrians of Ishta d-Nahra were mostly resettled in Tell-Tamer on the banks of the Khabur River in Syria, in 1935. They did not build a new church dedicated to St. Eugene, but still kept the cross from this church and celebrate his feast day every year.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1900, Assyrians numbered over 76,000 in northwestern Iran, constituting over a quarter of the West Azerbaijan Province's population and were the largest non-Muslim majority in Urmia. Of the 300 villages around Urmia, 60 were exclusively Assyrians and 60 were mixed villages with Assyrian, Armenian, and Azeri communities. Nevertheless, there were over 115 documented Assyrian villages to the west of Lake Urmia prior to 1918. The home of the Assyrians in Iran has traditionally been along the western shore of Lake Urmia from the Salmas area to the Urmia plain. \n\nAlthough similar to Iraq Koine, where Koine ultimately derives from it, the Urmian dialect of this region has Farsi influence (such as the use of [v] instead of [w]), where, for instance, \"warda\" (\"flower\") will pronounced as \"varda\". Furthermore, unlike many Iraqi Koine speakers, Urmians use /tʃ/ instead of /k/ and /dʒ/ instead of /g/ – So for example, words like \"kma\" (\"how much\") in Standard Assyrian (Iraqi Koine) will be \"chma\", and \"gana\" will be \"jana\" (\"self\"), respectively. Incidentally, /dʒ/ may also be used in some Tyari dialects as well. Furthermore, in many Urmian speakers, namely those who come from Iran, the long /a/ sound as heard in \"raba\" (\"plenty\") will be turned into an /ɒ/ sound, so the word may sound like \"robo\". \n\nThe Urmia dialect was the prestige dialect of Assyrian Neo-Aramaic in the 19th and early 20th century, when it was chosen by Justin Perkins, an American Presbyterian missionary, for the creation of a standard literary dialect of Assyrian, before ultimately a second standard dialect derived from \"General Urmian\" known as \"Iraqi Koine\" was developed in the 20th century.\n\n\n\n\nMost traditional Assyrian settlements in Iraq, which were once ancient cities home to Assyrians from around 1500 BC-2000 BC, are now towns or small cities in Iraqi Kurdistan and Iraq that are largely populated by Kurds and Arabs, with Assyrians being a significant minority. Such townships include Alqosh, Tel Keppe, Bartella and Tel Esqof (which are historical Chaldo-Assyrian tribes) in Nineveh Governorate and Nineveh plains, and the Kurdish-populated cities of Dohuk and Zakho (another Chaldo-Assyrian tribe) in Dohuk Governorate. Batnaya, in the Tel Keppe District in Nineveh Governorate, is a Chaldo-Assyrian tribe that is currently uninhabited due to Islamic terrorism.\n\nThe Assyrians inhabiting Nineveh Province are mostly adherents of the Chaldean Catholic Church, whilst those in Dohuk adhere to the Assyrian Church of the East and Ancient Church of the East. Many Assyrians native to southeastern Turkey have settled in Northern Iraq from the 1920s and 1930s after torment, genocidal violence and discrimination, whilst some immigrated to Syria and the Caucasus. The nearby ancient Assyrian cities of Assur and Nineveh scarcely have Assyrians, if any, due to Iraq War and spread of ISIS.\n\nLocated in what is now Northern Iraq, Lower Barwari is the only region in Iraq that is native to Nestorian Assyrians (as other Assyrian natives in Northern Iraq are predominantly Chaldean Catholics) and one of the few historical Assyrian regions to still have an Assyrian presence in the modern era. The Assyrians indigenous to this territory speak a dialect that is virtually homogeneous to those of the Lower Tyari region in southeastern Turkey, and unlike those in the Upper Barwari region. Akin to the speakers of Lower Tyari, \"beta\" in Standard Assyrian will be \"betha\". Ancient villages of this region includes Dooreh, Dehi, Bebadi, Jelek and Betanure. The mountainous region was part of the diocese of Beth Nuhadra (current day Dohuk) since antiquities and have seen a mass migration of Nestorians after the fall of Baghdad in 1258 and Timurlane's invasion from central Iraq.\n\nIts Christian inhabitants were little affected by the Ottoman conquests, however starting from the 19th century Kurdish Emirs sought to expand their territories at their expense. In the 1830s Muhammad Rawanduzi, the Emir of Soran, tried to forcibly add the region to his dominion pillaging many Assyrian villages. Bedr Khan Beg of Bohtan renewed attacks on the region in the 1840s, killing tens of thousands of Assyrians in Barwari and Hakkari before being ultimately defeated by the Ottomans. Many Assyrians who survived later suffered in the Assyrian Genocide by the Ottoman Army during the First World War; others took refuge in Urmia led by their patriarch, Mar Shimun XIX Benyamin. Later attempts for their resettlement in Barwar were largely successful however, and Assyrians still live in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1967286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967286", "title": "List of cultural references in the Divine Comedy", "text": "List of cultural references in the Divine Comedy\n\nThe Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri is a long allegorical poem in three parts (or canticas): the \"Inferno\" (Hell), \"Purgatorio\" (Purgatory), and \"Paradiso\" (Paradise), and 100 cantos, with the Inferno having 34, Purgatorio having 33, and Paradiso having 33 cantos. Set at Easter 1300, the poem describes the living poet's journey through hell, purgatory, and paradise.\n\nThroughout the poem, Dante refers to people and events from Classical and Biblical history and mythology, the history of Christianity, and the Europe of the Medieval period up to and including his own day. A knowledge of at least the most important of these references can aid in understanding the poem fully.\n\nFor ease of reference, the cantica names are abbreviated to Inf., Purg., and Par. Roman numerals are used to identify cantos and Arabic numerals to identify lines. This means that Inf. X, 123 refers to line 123 in Canto X (or 10) of the Inferno and Par. XXV, 27 refers to line 27 in Canto XXV (or 25) of the Paradiso. The line numbers refer to the original Italian text.\n\nBoldface links indicate that the word or phrase has an entry in the list. Following that link will present that entry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53985060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53985060", "title": "Model Car Hall of Fame", "text": "Model Car Hall of Fame\n\nThe Model Car Hall of Fame is an annual awards ceremony for the die-cast toy, scale model and slot car industries.\n\nFounded in 2009, initially as the Diecast Hall of Fame, the Model Car Hall of Fame is an annual award event held in Las Vegas with a number of different awards. The Hall is supported by 77 clubs, forums and blogs from 18 countries . The 2017 Award Ceremony was held on November 2nd with the 2017 class being announced: Tim Allen as Automotive Legend, Paul G. Lang, Minichamps as Diecast Entrepreneur, Tony Karamitsos, Round2 (the company that makes Auto World, Johnny Lightning and Racing Champions) as Diecast Designer, Joe Alvarado as Diecast Customizer, Robert Fellows as Diecast Historian and Woody Itson as Collector of the Year.\n\nThe more than 170 inductees include\n\n\n, "}
{"id": "4804623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804623", "title": "Mythical origins of language", "text": "Mythical origins of language\n\nThere have been many accounts of the origin of language in the world's mythologies and other stories pertaining to the origin of language, the development of language and the reasons behind the diversity in languages today.\n\nThese myths have similarities, recurring themes, and differences, having been passed down through oral tradition. Some myths go further than just storytelling and are religious, with some even having a literal interpretation even today. Recurring themes in the myths of language dispersal are floods and catastrophes. Many stories tell of a great deluge or flood which caused the peoples of the Earth to scatter over the face of the planet. Punishment by a god or gods for perceived wrongdoing on the part of man is another recurring theme.\n\nMyths regarding the origins of language and languages are generally subsumed or footnoted into larger creation myths, although there are differences. Some tales say a creator endowed language from the beginning, others count language among later gifts, or curses.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible attributes the origin of language per se to humans, with Adam being asked to name the creatures that God had created.\n\nOne of the most well known examples in the West is the Tower of Babel passage from Genesis. \nIt tells of God punishing humanity for arrogance and disobedience by means of the confusion of tongues.\n\nThis became the standard account in the European Middle Ages, reflected in medieval literature such as the tale of Fénius Farsaid.\n\nVāc is the Hindu goddess of speech, or \"speech personified\". As \"brahman\" \"sacred utterance\", she has a cosmological role as the \"Mother of the Vedas\".\nShe is presented as the consort of Prajapati, who is likewise presented as the origin of the Veda.\nShe became conflated with Sarasvati in later Hindu mythology.\n\nIn common with the mythology of many other civilizations and cultures which tell of a Great Flood, certain Native American tribes tell of a deluge which came over the Earth. After the water subsides, various explanations are given for the new diversity in speech.\n\nThe Aztecs' story maintains that only a man, Coxcox, and a woman, Xochiquetzal, survive, having floated on a piece of bark. They found themselves on land and begot many children who were at first born unable to speak, but subsequently, upon the arrival of a dove were endowed with language, although each one was given a different speech such that they could not understand one another.\n\nA similar flood is described by the Kaska people from North America, however, like with the story of Babel, the people were now \"widely scattered over the world\". The narrator of the story adds that this explains the many different centres of population, the many tribes and the many languages, \"Before the flood, there was but one centre; for all the people lived together in one country, and spoke one language.\"\n\nAn Iroquois story tells of the god Taryenyawagon (\"Holder of the Heavens\") guiding his people on a journey and directing them to settle in different places whence their languages changed.\n\nA Salishan myth tells how an argument led to the divergence of languages. Two people were arguing whether the high-pitched humming noise that accompanies ducks in flight is from air passing through the beak or from the flapping of wings. The argument is not settled by the chief, who then calls a council of all the leading people from nearby villages. This council breaks down in argument when nobody can agree, and eventually the dispute leads to a split where some people move far away. Over time they slowly began to speak differently, and eventually other languages were formed.\n\nIn the mythology of the Yuki, indigenous people of California, a creator, accompanied by Coyote creates language as he creates the tribes in various localities. He lays sticks which will transform into people upon daybreak.\n\nThe Ticuna people of the Upper Amazon tell that all the peoples were once a single tribe, speaking the same language until two hummingbird eggs were eaten, it is not told by whom. Subsequently the tribe split into groups and dispersed far and wide.\n\nIn Ancient Greece there was a myth which told that for ages men had lived without law under the rule of Zeus and speaking one language, gifted to them by the god and goddess of ingenuity, Philarios and Philarion. The god Hermes brought diversity in speech and along with it separation into nations and discord ensued. Zeus then resigned his position, yielding it to the first king of men, Phoroneus.\n\nIn Norse mythology, the faculty of speech is a gift from the third son of Borr, Vé, who gave also hearing and sight.\n\nThe Wa-Sania, a Bantu people of East African origin have a tale that in the beginning, the peoples of the earth knew only one language, but during a severe famine, a madness struck the people, causing them to wander in all directions, jabbering strange words, and this is how different languages came about.\n\nA god who speaks all languages is a theme in African mythology, two examples being Eshu of the Yoruba, a trickster who is a messenger of the gods. Eshu has a parallel in Legba from the Fon people of Benin. Another Yoruba god who speaks all the languages of the world is Orunmila, the god of divination.\n\nA group of people on the island of Hao in Polynesia tell a very similar story to the Tower of Babel, speaking of a God who, \"in anger chased the builders away, broke down the building, and changed their language, so that they spoke diverse tongues\".\n\nIn South Australia, a people of Encounter Bay tell a story of how diversity in language came about from cannibalism:\n\nAnother group of Australian Aboriginal people, the Gunwinggu, tell of a goddess in dreamtime giving each of her children a language of their own to play with.\n\nThe traditional beliefs of the indigenous inhabitants of the Andaman Islands in the Bay of Bengal describe language as being given by the god Pūluga to the first man and woman at their union following a great deluge. The language given was called \"bojig-yâb-\", which is the language spoken to this day, according to their belief, by the tribe inhabiting the south and south-eastern portion of middle Andaman. This language is described by the inhabitants as the \"mother tongue\" from which all other dialects have been made.\n\nTheir beliefs hold that even before the death of the first man,\n\nThus explaining the diversity of language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39390691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39390691", "title": "Neofeminism", "text": "Neofeminism\n\nNeofeminism describes an emerging view of women as becoming empowered through the celebration of attributes perceived to be conventionally feminine, that is, it glorifies a womanly essence over claims to equality with men. It is a term that has come into use in the early 21st century to refer to a popular culture trend, what critics see as a type of \"lipstick feminism\" that confines women to stereotypical roles, while it erodes cultural freedoms women gained through the second-wave feminism of the 1960s and 1970s in particular. \n\nThe term has been used since the beginning of second-wave feminism to refer broadly to any recent manifestation of feminist activism, mainly to distinguish it from the First-wave feminism of the suffragettes. It was used in the title of a best-selling 1982 book by Jacques J. Zephire about French feminist Simone de Beauvoir, \"Le Neo-Feminisme de Simone de Beauvoir\" (Paris: Denoel/Gonthier 9782282202945). Zephir used the term to differentiate de Beauvoir's views from writers described as \"Neofeminist\", such as literary theorist Luce Irigaray, who indicated in her own writing that women had an essentialist femininity that could express itself in \"écriture féminine\" (feminine writing/language), among other ways. Céline T. Léon has written, \"one can only identify the existentialist's [de Beauvoir's] glorification of transcendence with the type of feminism that Luce Irigaray denounces in \"Ce sexe qui n'en est pas un\": \"Woman simply equal to men would be like them and therefore not women\".\"\n\nde Beauvoir's views were quite the opposite: \n\nLater writers and popular culture commentators appear to have continued this use of the term to describe essentialist feminism. It has been used by sociologists to describe a new popular culture movement that \"celebrates both the feminine body and women's political achievements\": \n\nThe term has also been equated with the New feminism described by Pope John Paul II. Feminist film scholar, Hilary Radner has used the term neo-feminism to characterized the iteration of feminism advocated by Hollywood's spate of romantic comedies inaugurated by \"Pretty Woman\" (Gary Marshall, 1990) often described as postfeminist. Radner argues that the origins of neo-feminism can be traced back to figures such as Helen Gurley Brown writing in the 1960s, meaning that the term postfeminism (suggesting that these ideas emerged after second wave feminism) is potentially misleading . \n\n"}
{"id": "39262097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39262097", "title": "Ngesh", "text": "Ngesh\n\nIn the Kuba region of the Democratic Republic of Congo, the belief in nature spirits, called \"ngesh\" or \"mingeh\", is widespread. Ngesh are believed to possess human characteristics, live near water sources in forests or villages, and may be encountered at any time. Community residents know the name of local \"ngesh\" and their offspring. \"Ngesh\" impose themselves on various human affairs, including the control of harvest and the fertility of women.\n\nEach \"ngesh \"is named and distinguished from one another; the Kuba invest each \"ngesh\" with its own particular temperament, the likes and dislikes of which set off its volatile nature. The \"ngesh \"have their own individual character.\n\nOrigin stories for some Kuba masquerade traditions describe how the mask's creator first encountered an \"ngesh\" in the forest and, after a period of disorientation, returns home to carve a likeness of the \"ngesh\". While \"ngesh \"are rarely represented by figurative sculpture, they are thought to be personified in masquerade figures, which are in turn empowered by these nature spirits.\n\nThe potential for masked performers to become aggressive is a fundamental part of Kuba masquerade,and it is a reflection of the influence of the unpredictable nature of ngesh on Kuba masked dancers. The association between \"ngesh\" and masquerade is also underscored by the strict rule that forbid spectators from touching the masks or coming to close to a masked dancer.\n"}
{"id": "56774382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56774382", "title": "Nordic Association for American Studies", "text": "Nordic Association for American Studies\n\nThe Nordic Association for American Studies (NAAS) is a scholarly society founded in 1959 which aims to promote the study of the United States in the five Nordic countries and to facilitate communication between scholars interested in this field. Membership is open to individuals who live in or have a scholarly connection to Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland or Iceland. The organization has five sub-organizations for each country and is, taken as a whole, a constituent member of The European Association for American Studies. It publishes the journal \"American Studies in Scandinavia\" and holds a conference every two years. It has so far arranged 25 conferences.\n"}
{"id": "440533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440533", "title": "Obbligato", "text": "Obbligato\n\nIn Western classical music, obbligato (, also spelled obligato) usually describes a musical line that is in some way indispensable in performance. Its opposite is the marking \"ad libitum\". It can also be used, more specifically, to indicate that a passage of music was to be played exactly as written, or only by the specified instrument, without changes or omissions. The word is borrowed from Italian (an adjective meaning \"fixed\"; from Latin \"obligatus\" p.p. of \"obligare\", to oblige); the spelling \"obligato\" is not acceptable in British English, but it is often used as an alternative spelling in the US. The word can stand on its own, in English, as a noun, or appear as a modifier in a noun phrase (e.g. \"organ obbligato\").\n\n\"Obbligato\" includes the idea of independence, as in C.P.E. Bach's 1780 Symphonies \"mit zwölf obligaten Stimmen\" (\"with twelve \"obbligato\" parts\") by which Bach was referring to the independent woodwind parts he was using for the first time. These parts were also \"obbligato\" in the sense of being indispensable.\n\nIn connection with a keyboard part in the baroque period, \"obbligato\" has a very specific meaning: it describes a functional change from a \"basso continuo\" part (in which the player decided how to fill in the harmonies unobtrusively) to a fully written part of equal importance to the main melody part.\n\nA later use has the contradictory meaning of \"optional\", indicating that a part was not obligatory. A difficult passage in a concerto might be furnished by the editor with an easier alternative called the \"obbligato\"; or a work may have a part for one or more solo instruments, marked \"obbligato\" (but more commonly and correctly termed an \"ossia\"), that is decorative rather than essential; the piece is complete and can be performed without the added part. The traditional term for such a part is \"ad libitum\", or \"ad lib.\", or simply \"optional\", since \"ad lib.\" may have a wide variety of interpretations.\n\nIn classical music the term has fallen out of use by modern-day practitioners, as composers, performers and audiences alike have come to see the musical text as paramount in decisions of musical execution. As a result, everything is now seen as \"obbligato\" unless explicitly specified otherwise in the score. It is still used to denote an orchestral piece with an instrumental solo part that stands out, but is not as prominent as in a solo concerto, as in Bloch's Concerto Grosso mentioned below. The term is now used mainly to discuss music of the past. One contemporary usage, however, is that by Erik Satie in the third movement of \"Embryons desséchés\" (\"Desiccated Embryos\"), where the \"obbligato\" consists of around twenty F-major chords played at \"fortissimo\" (this is satirising Beethoven's symphonic style).\n\nThe term is also used with an entirely different meaning, signifying a countermelody.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53692", "title": "Payola", "text": "Payola\n\nPayola, in the music industry, is the illegal practice of payment or other inducement by record companies for the broadcast of recordings on commercial radio in which the song is presented as being part of the normal day's broadcast, without announcing that there has been consideration paid in cash or in kind for its airplay adjacent to the recording's broadcast. Under US law, a radio station can play a specific song in exchange for money, but this must be disclosed on the air as being sponsored airtime.\n\nThe term has come to refer to any undisclosed payment made to cast a product in a favorable light (such as obtaining positive reviews). Some radio stations report spins of the newest and most popular songs to industry publications. The number of times the songs are played can influence the perceived popularity of a song.\n\nThe term \"payola\" is a combination of \"pay\" and \"ola\", a common suffix of product names in the early 20th century, such as Pianola, Victrola, Amberola, Crayola, Rock-Ola, Shinola, or brands such as the radio equipment manufacturer Motorola. Payola has come to mean the payment of a bribe in commerce and in law to say or do a certain thing against the rules of law, but more specifically a commercial bribe. The FCC defines \"payola\" as a violation of the sponsorship identification rule that in 2005-06 resulted in tens of millions of dollars in illegal fines to cable corporations in New York. \n\nIn earlier eras there was not much public scrutiny of the reasons songs became hits. The ad agencies which had sponsored NBC's radio/TV show \"Your Hit Parade\" for 20 years refused to reveal the specific methods that were used to determine top hits, only stating generally that they were based on \"readings of radio requests, sheet music sales, dance hall favorites and jukebox tabulations\". Attempts to create a code to stop payola were met with mainly lukewarm silence by publishers.\n\nProsecution for payola in the 1950s was in part a reaction of the traditional music establishment against newcomers. Hit radio was a threat to the wages of song-pluggers. Radio hits also threatened old revenue streams; for example, by the middle of the 1940s, three-quarters of the records produced in the USA went into jukeboxes. Still, in the 1950s, independent record companies or music publishers frequently used payola to promote rock and roll on American radio; it promoted cultural diversity and disc jockeys were less inclined to indulge their own personal and racial biases.\n\nAlan Freed, a disc jockey and early supporter of rock and roll (and also widely credited for actually coining the term), had his career and reputation greatly harmed by a payola scandal. Dick Clark's early career was nearly derailed by a payola scandal, but he avoided trouble by selling his stake in a record company and cooperating with authorities. Attempts were made to link all payola with rock and roll music. In 1976, inner-city urban soul DJ Frankie Crocker was indicted in a payola scandal, causing him to leave NY radio, where his influence was greatest. The charges were later dropped and he returned to NY, hosting MTV's video jukebox.\n\nThe amount of money involved is largely unpublished; however, one DJ, Phil Lind of Chicago's WAIT, disclosed in Congressional hearings that he had taken $22,000 to play a record.\n\nThe issue was featured in a 1978 episode of \"WKRP in Cincinnati\", where Johnny Fever's morning show replacement (when Johnny left to take a new job in Los Angeles) was caught taking cocaine as a bribe to play certain records from a label that he was associated.\n\nPayola to DJs is less of a concern today because they rarely are involved in choosing the songs. Modern radio is widely based on company-delivered playlists, often scheduling every song, commercial break, and DJ talk time, and most shows are pre-recorded well in advance of their broadcasts. Especially with shows that are voicetracked from elsewhere where an off-air assistant may choose the playlists rather than the DJs themselves, local radio staff have little to no input on a playlist outside of special but rare segments where a local artist might be spotlighted, or contests where local artists are offered the opportunity to open a station-sponsored concert or music festival for more well-known acts.\n\nThe Congressional Payola Investigations occurred in 1959, after the United States Senate began investigating the payola scandal. Among those thought to have been involved were DJ Alan Freed and television personality and host Dick Clark.\n\nThe term Congressional Payola Investigations refers to investigations by the House Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight into payola, the practice of record promoters paying DJs or radio programmers to play their labels' songs. Payola can refer to monetary rewards or other types of reimbursement, and is a tool record labels use to promote certain artists. Other forms of payola include making arrangements to purchase certain amounts of advertising in exchange for staying on a station's playlist, forcing bands to play station-sponsored concerts for little or no money in order to stay in a station's good graces, and paying for stations to hold \"meet the band\" contests, in exchange for air time for one of the label's newer, lesser-known bands.\n\nThe first major payola investigation occurred in the early 1960s. DJ Alan Freed, who was uncooperative in committee hearings, was fired as a result. Dick Clark also testified before the committee, but survived, partially due to the fact that he had divested himself of ownership interest in all of his music-industry holdings.\n\nAfter the initial investigation, radio DJs were stripped of the authority to make programming decisions, and payola became a misdemeanor offense. Programming decisions became the responsibility of station program directors. As a result, the process of persuading stations to play certain songs was simplified. Instead of reaching numerous DJs, record labels only had to connect with one station program director.\n\nLabels turned to independent promoters to circumvent allegations of payola. This practice grew more and more widespread until a 1986 NBC News investigation called \"The New Payola\" instigated another round of Congressional investigations.\n\nWith the creation of Napster and other now illegal music sharing websites, the power of the independent promoters began to decline. Labels once more began dealing with stations directly.\n\nIn 2002, investigations by the office of then-New York District Attorney Eliot Spitzer uncovered evidence that executives at Sony BMG music labels had made deals with several large commercial radio chains. In July 2005, the company acknowledged their improper promotional practices and agreed to pay a $10 million fine.\n\nA different form of payola has been used by the record industry through the loophole of being able to pay a third party or independent record promoters (\"indies\"; not to be confused with independent record labels), who will then go and \"promote\" those songs to radio stations. Offering the radio stations \"promotion payments\", the independents get the songs that their clients, record companies, want on the playlists of radio stations around the country.\n\nThis newer type of payola was an attempt to sidestep FCC regulations. Since the independent intermediaries were the ones actually paying the stations, it was thought that their inducements did not fall under the \"payola\" rules, so a radio station need not report them as paid promotions.\n\nFormer New York State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer prosecuted payola-related crimes in his jurisdiction. His office settled out of court with Sony BMG Music Entertainment in July 2005, Warner Music Group in November 2005 and Universal Music Group in May 2006. The three conglomerates agreed to pay $10 million, $5 million, and $12 million respectively to New York State non-profit organizations that will fund music education and appreciation programs. EMI remains under investigation.\n\nConcern about contemporary forms of payola prompted an investigation during which the FCC established firmly that the \"loophole\" was still a violation of the law. In 2007, four companies (CBS Radio, Citadel, Clear Channel, and Entercom) settled on paying $12.5 million in fines and accepting tougher restrictions than the legal requirements for three years, although no company admitted any wrongdoing. Because of the increased legal scrutiny, some larger radio companies (including industry giant Clear Channel) now flatly refuse to have any contact with independent promoters.\n\nClear Channel Radio through iHeartRadio launched a program called \"On the Verge\" that required the stations to play a given song at least 150 times in order to give a new artist exposure. Brand managers at the top of the Clear Channel chain, after listening to hundreds of songs and filtering them down to about five or six favorites from various formats, send those selections to program directors across the country. These program directors vote on which ones they think radio listeners will like the most. One of the songs that benefited with the exposure was Iggy Azalea's \"Fancy\". Tinashe's \"2 On\", Anthony Lewis' \"Candy Rain\", and Jhené Aiko's \"The Worst\", among others, have been featured on the program, however, those failed to duplicate Azalea's chart hit. Tom Poleman, president of national programming platforms for the company, stated that the acts selected are based solely on the quality of their music and not on label pressure.\n\nOn Spotify, labels can pay for tracks to appear in user play-lists as \"Sponsored Songs\". It is possible to opt out of it using a setting.\n\nIn Mexico, South America and some regions of the U.S. southern border, it is common to hear the sudden appearance of \"new artists\", mainly in folk radio stations, who are not known in the music industry, have no previous career and with no explanation of where they come from. These music groups and singers start to appear consistently on radio, television and public broadcasts with a strong promotion of their concerts. This happens for a fixed amount of time, and in the same sudden way they appear, they stop their promotion and disappear from the music scene, or change their stage name. Such artists are commonly manufactured by producers of dubious origin, who pay payola and do events in order to launder money from drug trafficking, prostitution or other illegal operations.\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Communications Act of 1934 both have strict requirements and rules regarding the issue of payola. Both the FCC and the Act demand that \"employees of broadcast stations, program producers, program suppliers and others who, in exchange for airing material, have accepted or agreed to receive payments, services or other valuable consideration must disclose this fact. Disclosure of compensation provides broadcasters the information they need to let their audiences know if material was paid for, and by whom.\" But even with these requirements in place, big-time record companies have found loopholes to continue the practice legally.\n\nThe reason why record companies have managed to find relatively big loopholes in an otherwise complex and strict document is because of the wording. According to the current regulations in place, it is still considered legal to pay to play a particular song on the radio. The only hitch is that the broadcaster has to reveal who paid. In addition, the disclosures must be from DJ to station manager to program director and upwards. The loose wording has created a loophole that makes it easier for wealthy record company officials to pay the DJs large sums of money to play certain songs a certain number of times at a given time during the day. The loophole has created a \"grey market, one in which shady, quasi-legal deals take place, and independent artists lose out more often than not.\"\n\nThe loophole has made it sure that independent artists will be isolated from mainstream media. And a current example of this is the lengths Macklemore and Ryan Lewis went to get their music heard. Because Lewis and Macklemore belonged to an independent label, they feared payola laws would interfere with their airtime. So they “hired an independent arm of Warner Music Group, the Alternative Distribution Alliance, which helps independent acts get their stuff on radio. Zach Quillen, manager of Macklemore and Ryan Lewis, discussed how \"they paid the alliance a flat monthly fee to help promote the album.\"\n\nOne side effect of the vagueness of the law and the creation of the loophole is the expansion of the concept at the hands of online music sharing websites. In 2009, the website Jango created a plan to do payola legally by saying they have been paid to play the songs. \"For as little as $30, a band can buy 1,000 plays on the music-streaming service, slotted in between established artists The artists themselves choose what other music they'd like to be played next to.\"\n\nAnother side effect with payola is that it is not just limited to the music industry anymore. The TV industry has engaged in a form of payola with interviews. Networks deny paying for interviews, but are willing to pay large sums of money in cases that garner a lot of attention. An example is the Casey Anthony case in 2011. It was reported that ABC News paid Anthony around $200,000 for personal photographs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6412503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6412503", "title": "Peter and the Shadow Thieves", "text": "Peter and the Shadow Thieves\n\nPeter and the Shadow Thieves is a children's novel that was published by Hyperion Books, a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, in 2006. Written by humorist Dave Barry and novelist Ridley Pearson, the book is a sequel to their book \"Peter and the Starcatchers\", continuing the story of the orphan Peter and his latest adventures with the Starcatchers. Another book, \"Peter and the Secret of Rundoon\", continues the \"Starcatchers\" series, which serve as a prequel to J.M. Barrie's classic novel \"Peter and Wendy\". It was illustrated by artist Greg Call. Hyperion has also begun a series of chapter books by these creators, which spin off from the series, called the Never Land Books. In May 2008 the writers announced a fourth book: \"Peter and the Sword of Mercy\".\n\nThe book starts three months after the end of \"Peter and the Starcatchers\". Slank returns to the island with more of the Others, including a certain Lord Ombra, to reclaim the trunk of starstuff lost in the previous book. When they learn that the Starcatchers have taken the trunk back to England, they set sail for London. Peter follows, fearing for Molly's safety, and with Tinker Bell's help conceals himself on their ship.\n\nOnce in London, Peter does not know where to find Molly. After unpleasant encounters with beggars, traders and the police, Peter finally gets directions from J. M. Barrie to Lord Aster's house, and rescues Molly from Lord Ombra in the nick of time. However, Louise Aster (Molly's mother) has been kidnapped by the Others, and the children must find Lord Aster who is guarding the starstuff.\n\nMeanwhile, back on the island, the pirates are hunting the Lost Boys. They capture the boys to use as bait for Peter, not knowing he is not on the island.\n\nAfter Molly and Peter's escape, Molly takes Peter to her old best friend's house, where she introduces Peter to George, who soon become acquaintances. They begin to search for the site of which the \"Return\", a mystical taking a starstuff, occurs. Molly, Peter and George eventually go by themselves due to Aster's cautions, and are all nearly killed. In the end, Louise is rescued and the Return takes place, and Peter inadvertently destroys Ombra in the process. He eventually returns to his island and rescues the Lost Boys from Hook's capture.\n\nMany of the characters from \"Peter and the Starcatchers\" are back for this sequel. However, a few characters are also mentioned in \"Peter Pan and Wendy\", and some were created exclusively for \"Peter and the Shadow Thieves\".\n\n\nThere is one point in the book where the authors introduce J.M. Barrie. He gives Peter directions to Molly's house by saying \"…it's the second path to the right and straight on until you hit the white house with two towers.\" It plays on the directions to Never Land in \"Peter and Wendy\", \"…the second star to the right and straight on till morning.\"\n\nOmbra is actually derived from the Latin word \"umbra\", meaning shadow or ghost.\n"}
{"id": "43368484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43368484", "title": "Proto-Algic language", "text": "Proto-Algic language\n\nProto-Algic (sometimes abbreviated PAc) is the proto-language from which the Algic languages (Wiyot language, Yurok language, and Proto-Algonquian) are descended. It is estimated to have been spoken about 7,000 years ago somewhere in the American Northwest, possibly around the Columbia Plateau. It is an example of a second-level proto-language (a proto-language whose reconstruction depends on data from another proto-language, namely its daughter language Proto-Algonquian) which is widely agreed to have existed. Its chief researcher was Paul Proulx.\n\nProto-Algic had four basic vowels, which could be either long or short:\n\nProto-Algic had the following consonants:\n\nIt is unclear if \"č\" /tʃ/ was an independent phoneme or only an allophone of \"c\" and/or \"t\" in Proto-Algic (as in Proto-Algonquian). In 1992, Paul Proulx theorized that Proto-Algic also possessed a phoneme \"gʷ\", which became *\"w\" in Proto-Algonquian and \"g\" in Wiyot and Yurok.\n\nAll stops and affricates in the above chart have aspirated counterparts, and all consonants, except fricatives, have glottalized ones. Proto-Algonquian significantly reduced this system by eliminating all glottalized and aspirated phonemes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24488669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488669", "title": "Sabai", "text": "Sabai\n\nSabai or sbai (; , , ; ), or phaa biang (; , ) is shawl-like garment, or breast cloth worn in mainland Southeast Asia. The term \"Sabai\" is used for a woman's silk breast wrapper in Cambodia, central Thailand, southern Thailand, northern Thailand, Isan, and Laos while in coastal Sumatra it is described as a shoulder cloth. A Sabai can also be worn by men in Lao weddings or when attending religious ceremonies. The type of Sabai typically worn by Lao men often has checkered patterns. Sabai also well known as a long piece of silk, about a foot wide, draped diagonally over the chest covering one shoulder with one end dropping behind the back.\"\n\nAlong with the shoulder sash, \"selendang\" of Malay and Sabai of Cambodia and Thailand may have been derived from the Indian garment called a sari, the end of which is worn over one shoulder, as most Southeast Asia countries were ruled by Indianized kingdoms.\n\nThere are related mythologies in the Khmer culture concerning the history of Sabai, which was likely invented during the Funan era in Cambodia's history, in the 1st century AD. The Sabai is mentioned in Preah Thaong and Neang Neak, a legend with the founders of the Kingdom of Funan as the two main characters. In one scene, Preah Thong clings to a piece of cloth known worn on the Nagini in order to make the journey to the Nāga's kingdom; that piece of cloth is a Sabai. In that tale, Sabai is symbolic of Neang Neak, the Naga princess's tail. For instance, there is an important little rite within the marriage ceremony called Preah Thong Taong Sbai Neang Neak, a symbolic representation of the legend as the groom must to hang on to the bride's Sabai as they go to their room for the honeymoon.\n\nHowever, according to illustrations in temples since the beginning of Khmer Empire rule, most Apsara seemed to have left the upper body nude, wearing only Khmer traditional sarong kor and their style of Sampot. Sabai may reflect the clothing of Buddhist monks whose robes also have one end hanging over a shoulder. Beginning from Ponhea Yat of the Chatomok era, the court lady is known to have worn the Sabai.. The Sabai is Cambodia's national costume together with the ancient sampot and chang kben.\n\nArchaeological evidence from a Mon Dvaravati site depicts five ladies playing instruments and wearing what seems to be a piece of fabric hanging from their shoulder which is quite similar to Sabai. Mon Dvaravati culture practices Theravada Buddhism which later influenced the Tai in the 13th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "44147061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44147061", "title": "Santiniketan: The Making of a Contextual Modernism", "text": "Santiniketan: The Making of a Contextual Modernism\n\nSantiniketan: The Making of a Contextual Modernism was an exhibition curated by R. Siva Kumar at the National Gallery of Modern Art in 1997, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of India's Independence.\n\nThe exhibition, through bringing about a hundred works each of four modern Indian artists, namely Nandalal Bose, Rabindranath Tagore, Ram Kinker Baij and Benode Behari Mukherjee on the centre stage, put the Santiniketan art movement into focus.\n\nKumar argues that the \"Santiniketan artists did not believe that to be indigenous one has to be historicist either in theme or in style, and similarly to be modern one has to adopt a particular trans-national formal language or technique. Modernism was to them neither a style nor a form of internationalism. It was critical re-engagement with the foundational aspects of art necessitated by changes in one’s unique historical position\".\n\nThe year 1997 bore witness to two parallel gestures of canon formation. On the one hand, the Baroda Group, a coalition whose original members included Vivan Sundaram, Ghulam Mohammed Sheikh, Bhupen Khakhar, and Nalini Malani—and which had left its mark on history in the form of the 1981 exhibition \"Place for People\"—was definitively historicized in 1997 with the publication of Contemporary Art in Baroda, an anthology of essays edited by Sheikh. On the other hand, the art historian Kumar’s exhibition and related publication, \"A Contextual Modernism\", focused on the Santiniketan artists Rabindranath Tagore, Nandalal Bose, Benode Behari Mukherjee, and Ramkinkar Baij. Of the Santiniketan artists, Kumar observed that they \"reviewed traditional antecedents in relation to the new avenues opened up by cross-cultural contacts. They also saw it as a historical imperative. Cultural insularity, they realized, had to give way to eclecticism and cultural impurity.\"\n\nAccording to Kumar \"The Santiniketan artists were one of the first who consciously challenged this idea of modernism by opting out of both internationalist modernism and historicist indigenousness and tried to create a context sensitive modernism.\"\n\nThe literary critic Ranjit Hoskote while reviewing the works of contemporary artist Atul Dodiya writes, \"The exposure to Santinketan, through a literary detour, opened Dodiya’s eyes to the historical circumstances of what Kumar has called a “contextual modernism” developed in eastern India in the 1930s and ’40s during the turbulent decades of the global Depression, the Gandhian liberation struggle, the Tagorean cultural renaissance and World War II.\"\n\nKumar had been studying the work of the Santiniketan masters and thinking about their approach to art since the early 1980s. The practice of subsuming Nandalal Bose, Rabindranath Tagore, Ram Kinker Baij and Benode Behari Mukherjee under the Bengal School of Art was misleading. According to Kumar, \"this happened because early writers were guided by genealogies of apprenticeship rather than their styles, worldviews, and perspectives on art practice\".\n\nKumar draws distinction between \"Santiniketan the art movement\" and \"Santiniketan the School\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8324223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8324223", "title": "South End Lower Roxbury Open Space Land Trust", "text": "South End Lower Roxbury Open Space Land Trust\n\nThe South End Lower Roxbury Open Space Land Trust is a membership-supported, non-profit organization that owns, protects, and manages 16 community gardens and pocket parks in the South End and Lower Roxbury neighborhoods of Boston, in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It is a member of the American Community Gardening Association, the Boston Natural Areas Network, the Land Trust Alliance, and a partnering grantee of the New England Grassroots Environment Fund.\n\nIn July 2012, SELROSLT officially voted to merge with, and was absorbed by Boston Natural Areas Network.\n\nThe South End Lower Roxbury Open Space Land Trust works to acquire, own, improve, and maintain open space for community gardening and pocket parks in the South End and Lower Roxbury neighborhoods of Boston for the public benefit in perpetuity.\n\nThe Land Trust was established in 1991 with the intent to incorporate and protect eight established community gardens. The existing gardens were owned by a variety of institutions, none of them with long term legal protection. The legal incorporation as a non-profit organization with an elected board composed of neighbors created an entity that was able to partner with The Trust for Public Land to purchase the range of properties from a variety of owners, and set in place a process to use and care for the gardens in perpetuity. Many of the original eight gardens were primarily food producing, helping to augment the budgets of low and moderate-income urban families. Land Trust gardens continue to be places of food production, as well as gardeners growing ornamental plants.\n\nheld and operated sixteen community gardens, gardened by approximately 600 gardeners, and accessible to their adjacent neighborhoods. Individual gardens have received awards from the Massachusetts Horticultural Society, the City of Boston, and \"Horticulture\" magazine. Three community gardens have been the subject of the nationally distributed WGBH-produced program The Victory Garden.\n\nIn July 2012, after a year of joint planning, voted to merge into Boston Natural Areas Network (BNAN). The time had come for to move from an all volunteer organization to an organization that provided full-time staff and greater resources. The merger gives the community gardens access the resources of BNAN, and their affiliate The Trustees of Reservations. The deeds for all community spaces were all transferred to BNAN, ensuring the protection of community gardens and open spaces in perpetuity.\n\nMembership is open to individuals and families interested in urban gardening. Each community garden maintains a waiting list. Most individual community gardens have a membership committee which manages the waiting list, works with the garden's leadership committee, and helps orient new gardeners to the garden. Waiting periods vary by garden and there are no statistics available on wait time. Members pay an annual plot fee, and an additional Land Trust membership fee. Costs are moderate, and payable on a sliding fee. Members may vote at an annual meeting, participate on committees, and are required to maintain their plot in a clean and productive state.\n\nPlot sizes vary from to . Gardening members come from the immediately adjoining neighborhoods. Individual gardens vary greatly in what is grown and harvested. Located in two diverse urban neighborhoods, a wide variety of food, flowers and plant material is grown based somewhat on ethnicity, ancestry, or if a gardener is a recent immigrant, their home country. Land Trust rules allow individual garderns to grow whatever they choose in their plot as long as it is not grown for commercial sale. Most garderners grow a mix of vegetables and ornamentals. A few of the gardens operate a composting system to convert discarded plant material to soil and fertilizer. Roughly half of the gardens have perimeter borders termed community borders, which are planted with ornamental plants, flowers and small shrubs.\n\nThe Land Trust operates with funds raised through garden plot fees, fundraising activities including the annual South End Garden Tour, and varied other events. Additional funds from private and public sources, via direct grants, have contributed over $1,000,000. Funds have been used to provide water systems, decontaminate soils, to install consistent iron fencing and granite curbing, and to build gazebo community spaces in the local gardens.\n\nEach of the community gardens elects or appoints a representative to the board. The board elects a president from membership. The president is a volunteer position, focused on day-to-day operations of the gardens, coordination with the City of Boston and membership. The individual community gardens send plot fees to the Land Trust to pay liability insurance and water service. Individual gardens are intended to be democratically self-governing, and the form of governance varies from garden to garden. Some gardens elect a coordinator, or two coordinators; others elect a leadership committee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32934529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32934529", "title": "Tagu", "text": "Tagu\n\nTagu (; ) is the first month of the traditional Burmese calendar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33782106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33782106", "title": "Takalo", "text": "Takalo\n\nTakalo is the performing of a traditional Niue war dance by an individual warrior or group of warriors prior to engaging the enemy in warfare between warriors using traditional war clubs. In modern times, the takalo is often performed prior to a rugby game or winning a game of some sport code. The takalo is also performed to welcome dignitaries as soon as they land in Niue, persons of high status like prime ministers, presidents and governors general – it signifies that the dignitaries' arrival is for the purpose of peace and harmony.\n\n"}
{"id": "8740521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8740521", "title": "The Ascent of F6", "text": "The Ascent of F6\n\nThe Ascent of F6: A Tragedy in Two Acts, by W. H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood, was the second and most successful play in the Auden-Isherwood collaboration, first published in 1936. It was a major contribution to English poetic drama in the 1930s. It has been seen as a parable about will, leadership and the nature of power: matters of increasing concern in Europe as that decade progressed.\n\nThe play tells the story of Michael Ransom, a climber, who, against his better judgement, accepts the offer of the British press and government to sponsor an expedition to the peak of F6, a mountain on the border of a British colony and a colony of the fictional country of Ostnia. Ransom is destroyed by his haste to complete the expedition ahead of the Ostnian climbers.\n\nThe play is widely regarded as an allegory of Auden's own temptation to be a public figure; this interpretation was first offered by R. G. Collingwood in \"The Principles of Art\" (1938).\n\nThe play was published in three slightly different versions: the first English edition in 1936, the American edition in 1937, and a second English edition in 1937.\n\nThe play is dedicated to Auden's geologist brother John Bicknell Auden who had taken part in an expedition near the Himalayan mountain K2.\n\nAuden personally invited Benjamin Britten to write the incidental music for the play. Britten composed the music in February 1937, the month of the play's first production, including a choral setting of \"Stop all the clocks\" (titled \"Funeral Blues\").\n\nThe play was first produced at the Mercury Theatre, London on 26 February 1937, with incidental music by Benjamin Britten conducted from the piano by Brian Easdale. Directed by Rupert Doone, the cast included William Devlin as Michael Ransom, Dorothy Holmes-Gore as Mrs Ransom, and Hedli Anderson as the Singer. After its initial run, \"The Ascent of F6\" received 17 performances over the next two years. It was broadcast live by the BBC on the 31st May 1937 in the early days of television with William Devlin again playing Michael Ransom.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "52224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52224", "title": "The Diamond Age", "text": "The Diamond Age\n\nThe Diamond Age: Or, A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer is a science fiction novel by American writer Neal Stephenson. It is to some extent a bildungsroman or coming-of-age story, focused on a young girl named Nell, set in a future world in which nanotechnology affects all aspects of life. The novel deals with themes of education, social class, ethnicity, and the nature of artificial intelligence. \"The Diamond Age\" was first published in 1995 by Bantam Books, as a Bantam Spectra hardcover edition. In 1996, it won both the Hugo and Locus Awards, and was shortlisted for the Nebula and other awards. In 2009, a six-hour miniseries adapted from the novel was slated for development for the Syfy Channel,\nalthough the adaptation did not ultimately emerge.\n\n\"The Diamond Age\" depicts a near-future world revolutionised by advances in nanotechnology, much as Eric Drexler envisioned it in his nonfiction book \"Engines of Creation\" (1986). Molecular nanotechnology is omni-present in the novel's world, generally in the form of Matter Compilers and the products that come out of them. The book explicitly recognizes the achievements of several existing nanotechnology researchers: Feynman, Drexler and Merkle are seen among characters of the fresco in Merkle-Hall, where new nanotechnological items are designed and constructed.\n\nThe book contains descriptions of various exotic technologies, such as the \"chevaline\" (a mechanical horse that can fold up and is light enough to be carried one-handed), and forecasts the use of technologies that are in development today, such as smart paper that can show personalized news headlines. Major cities have immune systems made up of aerostatic defensive micromachines, and public matter compilers provide basic food, blankets, and water for free to anyone who requests them.\n\nMatter compilers receive their raw materials from the Feed, a system analogous to the electrical grid of modern society. The Feed carries streams of both energy and basic molecules, which are rapidly assembled into usable goods by matter compilers. The Source, where the Feed's stream of matter originates, is controlled by the Victorian phyle (though smaller, independent Feeds are possible). The hierarchic nature of the Feed and an alternative, anarchic developing technology, known as the Seed, mirror the cultural conflict between East and West that is depicted in the book. This conflict has an economic element as well, with the Feed representing a centrally-controlled distribution mechanism, while the Seed represents a more flexible, open-ended, decentralized method of creation and organization.\n\nSociety in \"The Diamond Age\" is dominated by a number of \"phyles,\" also sometimes called \"tribes.\" Phyles are groups of people often distinguished by shared values, similar ethnic heritage, a common religion, or other cultural similarities. In the extremely globalized future depicted in the novel, these cultural divisions have largely supplanted the system of nation-states that divides the world today. Cities in \"The Diamond Age\" appear divided into sovereign enclaves affiliated or belonging to different phyles within a single metropolis. Most phyles depicted in the novel have a global scope of sovereignty, and maintain segregated enclaves in or near many cities throughout the world.\n\nThe phyles coexist much like historical nation-states under a system of justice and mutual protection, known as the Common Economic Protocol (CEP). The rules of the CEP are intended to provide for the co-existence of, and peaceful economic activity between, phyles with potentially very different values. The CEP is concerned particularly with upholding rights to personal property, being shown to provide particularly harsh punishment for harming the economic capability of another person. The role of the CEP in the world of the novel could be seen in comparison with the roles of real-life international organizations such as the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund.\n\n\"Thetes\" are individuals who are not members of any phyle and are often socially disadvantaged and economically poor, being similar to second-class citizens under the CEP. In the novel, the material needs of nearly all thetes are satisfied by freely-available food and clothing, albeit of low quality; thetes without the political connections of a phyle are entitled to similarly low-quality \"free justice.\"\n\nThe book distinguishes three Great Phyles: the Han (consisting of Han Chinese), the Neo-Victorian New Atlantis (consisting largely of Anglo-Saxons, but also accepting Indians, Africans and other members of the Anglosphere who identify with the culture) and Nippon (consisting of Japanese). The novel raises the question as to whether Hindustan (consisting of Hindu Indians) is a fourth Great Phyle, or a \"riotously diverse collection of microtribes sintered together according to some formula we don't get.\"\n\nInternally, the New Atlantis phyle is a corporate oligarchy whose \"equity lords\" rule the organization and its bylaws under allegiance to the vestigial British monarchy. Other phyles are less defined – some intentionally, as with the CryptNet group or the mysterious hive-mind Drummers. Over the course of the story, the Common Economic Protocol sponsors the investigation of clandestine Seed technologies in order to preserve the established order from subversion, using the justification that unrestricted access to Sources would lead to the proliferation of high tech weapons and result in anarchy. It is also hinted that property rights are so expansive that the Protocol recognizes children as the economic assets of their parents.\n\nThe protagonist in the story is Nell, a \"thete\" (or person without a tribe; equivalent to the lowest working class) living in the Leased Territories, a lowland slum built on the artificial, diamondoid island of New Chusan, located offshore from the mouth of the Yangtze River, northwest of Shanghai. At the age of four, Nell receives a stolen copy of an interactive book, \"Young Lady's Illustrated Primer: a Propædeutic Enchiridion, in which is told the tale of Princess Nell and her various friends, kin, associates, &c.\", originally intended for the wealthy Neo-Victorian \"Equity Lord\" Alexander Chung-Sik Finkle-McGraw's granddaughter. The story follows Nell's development under the tutelage of the Primer, and to a lesser degree, the lives of Elizabeth and Fiona, girls who receive similar books. The Primer is intended to steer its reader intellectually toward a more \"interesting life,\" as defined by \"Equity Lord\" Alexander Chung-Sik Finkle-McGraw, and growing up to be an effective member of society. The most important quality to achieving an \"interesting life\" is deemed to be a subversive attitude towards the status quo. The Primer is designed to react to its owner's environment and teach them what they need to know to survive and develop.\n\n\"The Diamond Age\" is characterized by two intersecting, almost equally-developed story lines: Nell's education through her independent work with the Primer, and the social downfall of engineer and designer of the Primer, John Percival Hackworth, who has made two illegal copies of the Primer for his own young daughter, Fiona. (One copy is stolen by Nell's brother.) His crime becomes known both to Lord Finkle-McGraw and to Dr. X, the black market engineer whose compiler Hackworth used to create the copy of the Primer, and each man attempts to exploit Hackworth to advance the opposing goals of their tribes. A third storyline follows an actress, Miranda, who plays the voice of Nell's Primer and has almost become Nell's surrogate mother, in her attempts to find Nell. Later Miranda's storyline is taken over by Miranda's associate Carl Hollywood after Miranda disappears.\n\n\"Diamond Age\" also includes fully narrated educational tales from the Primer that map Nell's individual experience (e.g. her four toy friends) onto archetypal folk tales stored in the primer's database. Although \"The Diamond Age\" explores the role of technology and personal relationships in child development, its deeper and darker themes also probe the relative values of cultures (which Stephenson explores in his other novels as well) and the shortcomings in communication between them.\n\n\"Diamond Age\" is an extension of labels for archeological time periods that take central technological materials to define an entire era of human history, such as the Stone Age, the Bronze Age or the Iron Age. Technological visionaries such as Eric Drexler and Ralph Merkle, both of whom receive an honorary mention in \"The Diamond Age\", have argued that if nanotechnology develops the ability to manipulate individual atoms at will, it will become possible to simply assemble diamond structures from carbon atoms, materials also known as diamondoids. Merkle states: \"In diamond, then, a dense network of strong bonds creates a strong, light, and stiff material. Indeed, just as we named the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, and the Steel Age after the materials that humans could make, we might call the new technological epoch we are entering the Diamond Age\". In the novel, a near future vision of our world, nanotechnology has developed precisely to this point, which enables the cheap production of diamond structures.\n\n\nThe novel's neo-Victorian setting, as well as its narrative form, particularly the chapter headings, suggest a relation to the work of Charles Dickens. The protagonist's name points directly to Little Nell from Dickens' 1840 novel \"The Old Curiosity Shop\".\n\nThe novel's character Judge Fang is based on a creative extension of Robert van Gulik's Judge Dee mystery series, which is based around a Confucian judge in ancient China who usually solves three cases simultaneously. The Judge Dee stories are based on the tradition of Chinese mysteries, transposing key elements into Western detective fiction.\n\nNell's father, Bud, is presented as an archetypal cyberpunk character. He is a career criminal (though not a particularly skilled or high-ranking one) with various surgically implanted devices to aid him in his 'work'. Stephenson attempts to establish \"The Diamond Age\" as a \"postcyberpunk\" book by killing this character early on, while acknowledging the influence of the cyberpunk genre.\n\nWhen Nell enters the castle of King Coyote in the Primer's final challenge for her, she encounters an enormous computer apparently designed to think and placed in charge of the kingdom. The computer is named \"Wizard 0.2\", a typographical allusion to \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\". In that book, the Wizard puts on a grand appearance but is later revealed to be merely a man hiding behind a curtain. In similar fashion, Wizard 0.2 creates an impressive light show as it apparently processes data, but it is then revealed that the computer's decisions are in fact made by King Coyote himself.\n\n\"The Diamond Age\" can be seen as a sequel to \"Snow Crash\", set many years later. This reading is based on a connection between Y.T., a major character in \"Snow Crash\", and the aged neo-Victorian Miss Matheson in \"The Diamond Age\", who drops oblique references to her past as a hard-edged skateboarder. This would set \"The Diamond Age\" some 80–100 years after \"Snow Crash\".\n\nFurther supporting evidence to connect these two novels include:\n\n\"The Great Simoleon Caper\" depicts a United States in which rising inflation encourages people to use an untraceable relay system that makes it impossible to enforce taxes on online transactions (which was later used as a plot element in another of Stephenson's works, the 1999 novel \"Cryptonomicon\"). By the setting of \"Snow Crash\" the United States and most other nation-states have collapsed because of hyperinflation; in \"The Diamond Age\", one character tells Miranda that they collapsed from the lack of tax revenue. Small, voluntary governments like the burbclaves depicted in \"Snow Crash\" replaced nation-states.\n\nBoth novels deal with an almost \"primitive tech\" replacing a current, worldwide use technology, in the sense of the reprogramming of the mind through ancient Sumerian chanting in \"Snow Crash\" (which also uses allusions to Babylonian prostitutes passing an information virus like a sexually transmitted disease), and the idea of nanotechnology propagating and communicating through sexual intercourse, passing from body to body like a virus. Both novels use an ancient, almost primitive threat to modern, \"Western\" technology and ideology (The Raft in \"Snow Crash\" and The Fists of Righteous Harmony in \"The Diamond Age\"). Stephenson explores the idea of the tech divide and its social and economic ramifications to the extreme using these violent, but not surprising, social revolutions.\n\nIn January 2007, the Sci-Fi Channel announced that it would be making a six-hour miniseries based on \"The Diamond Age.\" According to a June 2009 report in \"Variety\", Zoë Green had been hired to write the series, with George Clooney and Grant Heslov of Smokehouse Productions as executive producers on the project.\nHowever, , no further news on the project has emerged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5028461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5028461", "title": "The Thorn", "text": "The Thorn\n\nThe Thorn is a comic, religious satire movie released on May 24, 1974, as The Divine Mr. J. It was first shown as The Greatest Story Overtold at the Detroit Institute of Art in 1971. It was released on video in the early 1980s as \"The Thorn\". It was written, directed and produced by Peter Alexander. Its release was legally challenged on grounds that its title and advertising deceptively exploited the fame of its co-star, Bette Midler.\n\n\"The Thorn\" starred John Hassberger as Jesus Christ with supporting roles of Bette Midler as the Virgin Mary; James Harrison as Joseph; John Greenburg as John the Baptist; Fred LaBour as the Angel Fred; Richard Pollard as Rabbi Gabriel; Diana David as Salome; and Jack Castor and Chi Chi as queens.\n\nAll of these actors were unknown and had no other film credits, with the exception of Bette Midler who was just beginning to build her singing career, had acted in a Broadway musical, and had briefly played a lead role in the off-Broadway musical \"Salvation\" in 1969. Midler had a brief appearance as a boat passenger in the 1966 film \"Hawaii\".\n\nOriginally conceived as \"The Greatest Story Overtold\", an irreverent spoof of the 1965 movie \"The Greatest Story Ever Told\", the film was influenced by the increase in popularity and profitability of Christian evangelism. Peter McWilliams wrote, produced, directed and edited the film under the pseudonym Peter Alexander. He went on to write a broad range of mostly self-published, popular books.\n\nFilmed in 16mm on a shoestring budget, the crew included Paul Josephson on camera and lighting, Craig Reynolds and Jay Cassidy on camera, and Jon Duff on sound recording. It was filmed mostly in a suburb of Detroit, Michigan from 1970 to 1971.\n\nAfter its premiere showing in Detroit, the film remained underground until it was released by National Entertainment Corp. as \"The Divine Mr. J\" a few years later, to capitalize on Midler's growing fame as \"The Divine Miss M.\" Its premiere showing under the new title at the Festival Theater in New York City on May 24, 1974, was picketed by Midler's agent, who also challenged the film's title and marketing in court. The film received very poor reviews and soon closed.\n\n\"The Divine Mr. J\" was re-released by Rochelle Films, Inc. in 1980 after Bette Midler's starring role in \"The Rose\". It was blocked from opening in the U.S., but it did show overseas in the early 1980s. It received poor reviews.\n\nThe film reappeared as \"The Thorn\" on a Magnum Entertainment VHS video release around 1984. It was again blocked by the courts and returned underground.\n\n"}
{"id": "36809795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36809795", "title": "Viva Mars Vegas", "text": "Viva Mars Vegas\n\n\"Viva Mars Vegas\" is the twelfth episode of the seventh season of the animated sitcom \"Futurama\". It originally aired on Comedy Central on August 22, 2012.\n\nThe episode was written by Josh Weinstein and directed by Frank Marino. Its opening sequence is constructed from plastic, cardboard, and model ships that \"fly\" on wires and rods.\n\nThe Robot Mafia holds up an armored car in space and steals $8 million in cash, but jettisons it into a dumpster on Earth when the police give chase. Meanwhile, the Planet Express crew takes a vacation to Mars, planning to stay at Leo and Inez Wong's hotel and casino. Amy suggests that Doctor Zoidberg stay behind, given how poor he is. Disappointed, Zoidberg climbs into a dumpster, only to have the robbery money fall into his lap.\n\nOn Mars, Amy explains that her parents built their fortune thanks to her ancestor, Sir Reginald Wong, who swindled the native Martians out of their land. The Native Martians now work in the casino. She takes them on a tour of the high-security money room and its vault, patrolled by a blind Martian security guard named Blind Joe whose keen sense of smell alerts him to Bender's attempt to steal some cash. Zoidberg arrives, surprising the crew, and quickly turns his $8 million into more than $10 billion at the roulette tables. His next bet loses, costing him everything, but he tells the shocked crew that he has enjoyed himself and helped everyone else have a little fun as well.\n\nReturning to the dumpster on Earth, he is confronted by the Robot Mafia, who threaten to kill him unless he returns the money. He escapes by squirting cephalopod ink on them and himself and running away. At Planet Express, as the crew recovers from a severe hangover, Professor Farnsworth uses a laser to make the ink in Fry's new facial tattoo invisible. A misfire hits Zoidberg, turning him invisible because of the ink covering his body. On Mars, the Robot Mafia forcibly takes over all of the Wongs' properties, leaving the family broke and homeless. Amy realizes that Zoidberg's invisibility gives them a chance to rob the casino and return it to its rightful owners.\n\nThe crew sneaks Zoidberg into the vault, using a batch of spoiled shrimp from the casino buffet to cover his natural body odor and foil Blind Joe. Zoidberg quickly swallows all the cash he can grab, along with a small box that, according to Amy, is \"the most valuable thing of all.\" The crew hurries to get him out as he starts to belch up the cash, but they are caught at the door by Blind Joe. Amy retrieves the box and opens it to reveal a document signed by Sir Reginald, which returns the land to its rightful owners (the Martians) after 100 years. Because that time has long since passed, Blind Joe and the Martians take ownership of the casino and throw the Robot Mafia out. In gratitude, they give the Wongs' ranch and a second casino back to them.\n\nThe A.V. Club gave the episode a B, preferring the four previous episodes over it.\n\n\"Viva Mars Vegas\" had 1.071 million viewers and a 0.6 rating in the (18-49) demo. It was the highest-rated show on Comedy Central that night.\n\n"}
{"id": "3176264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176264", "title": "Youth mentoring", "text": "Youth mentoring\n\nYouth mentoring is the process of matching mentors with young people who need or want a caring, responsible adult in their lives. Adult mentors are usually unrelated to the child or teen and work as volunteers through a community-, school-, or church-based social service program. The goal of youth mentoring programs is to improve the well-being of the child by providing a role model that can support the child academically, socially and/or personally. This goal can be accomplished through school work, communication, and/or activities. Goals and settings within a mentoring program vary by country because of cultural values.\n\nAlthough informal mentoring relationships exist, formal, high-quality mentoring matches made through local or state mentoring organizations are often the most effective.\n\nAccording to \"The Encyclopedia of Informal Education\":\n\"The classic definition of mentoring is of an older experienced guide who is acceptable to the young person and who can help ease the transition to adulthood by a mix of support and challenge. In this sense it is a developmental relationship in which the young person is inducted into the world of adulthood.\"\n\nResearch on Mentoring Effects\n\nMuch research has been conducted on youth mentoring with the intent of determining whether or not there are positive benefits for youth and, if so, under what conditions the positive effects are most likely to occur. The evidence is somewhat mixed, however. According to some studies, not all mentoring programs are found to have positive effects. Furthermore, some studies that demonstrated positive outcomes for youth suggested that benefits from mentoring do not always last for an extended period of time after the intervention has ended.\n\nMeta-Analysis\n\nOne method of determining how effective mentoring relationships have become is with the use of meta-analysis. Meta-analysis allows a researcher to synthesize several studies and has been said to provide an unbiased, objective, and quantifiable method to test for significant differences in the results found across studies. Two studies utilizing this method are presented below.\n\nIn a meta-analysis of 55 studies on mentoring programs, the overall effectiveness of mentoring as well as the factors relating to variation in mentoring effects were studied. In this study, articles found on popular databases as well as possible search engines (such as Yahoo, etc.) that were published between 1970 and 1998 were selected and evaluated. Findings from this meta-analysis indicated that there was an overall positive, though modest, effect from mentoring. The effect appeared to be especially beneficial for youth classified as “at risk” (see at-risk students) or “disadvantaged”. Further findings indicated that effect size may be increased with the use of specific strategies and practices, such as providing continual support and structure to the mentor and relationship. It is important to note, however, that this study cannot imply causality and further research is recommended to explore this relationship.\n\nIn another meta-analysis, 39 articles published between 1970 and 2005 were analyzed. Articles were required to measure a quantifiable effect on either delinquency, aggression, substance use, or academic achievement. The overall effects were found to be positive with delinquency as well as with the other outcomes studied. Effects were stronger with the delinquent and aggressive outcomes, while still remaining moderate with the group measuring substance use and academic achievement. This suggests that mentoring programs are especially effective with delinquent behavior.\n\nUse of Best Practices\n\nResearch indicates that the use of specific best practices can be used to improve the mentoring experience.\n\nIn the meta-analysis listed above, several best practices were found to increase effect sizes in mentoring programs:\n\n\nIn addition, there are several mentor websites that suggest the inclusion of similar best practices with the hopes of created greater outcomes for youth.\n\nResearch on Informal VS Formal Mentoring\n\nIn the research, there is a distinction between a naturally occurring adult-youth relationship (referred to as informal mentoring) and a structured adult-youth relationship where the mentor is assigned or matched (referred to as formal mentoring). There is less research available for informal mentor relationships than there is for formal, but the research indicates that benefits exist for both the mentor and mentee. Research is also available that suggests no effect or negative effects from mentoring, especially if the relationship with the adult fails. Formal mentoring has been better studied in the research and, therefore, more findings are available on this topic. In a review of literature, it was suggested that an emphasis in quality of mentoring relationship and programming has been steadily increasing in the research and a shift in outcome measures is apparent, with most studies measuring general youth development as opposed to reductions in particular deviant behaviors. In another review of literature, 10 studies were analyzed and found a moderate positive effect on mentee grades, reduction of substance use, reduction of some delinquent behaviors, but not with youth self-esteem.\n\nThese studies suggest that, although research is conflicting, there is typically an overall positive effect as a result of a mentoring relationship. This positive effect is more likely with the use of established best practices and within the population of youth classified as delinquent or \"at risk\". Most research agrees, however, that further research is necessary and that research with more rigorous methods would be beneficial to the field.\n\nThe mentoring program for youngsters was mentioned as having significant benefits such as lower dropout rates in high school and subsequently increased graduation rates also at the secondary level. Students adopt a more positive attitude towards formal classroom learning with more formidable relationships between students, teachers, and parents. Youngsters also acquire more self-confidence and better behavior at home and school. At the same time, there is reduced risk of students making the first move towards alcohol and substance abuse. For teachers, mentoring means enhanced skills in supervision and better patience, sense of fulfilment, and increased self-esteem.\n\nOne prevalent method is referred to as the \"School-Based\" approach. The mentor meets with the youth in an academic setting and facilitates school work while acting as a supportive role-model.They may also play games, do crafts or partake in non-academic activities. This approach is practiced by organizations such as Big Brothers Big Sisters which is located in eleven countries including Ireland, the United States, Israel, and Bulgaria. As of 2005, there was an estimated 870,000 adults mentoring youth in a school-based program throughout The United States alone. Canada has developed an in-school program in which elderly Aboriginal mentors are paired with both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal children to raise self-esteem, teach about native cultures, and provide support to youth in school.\n\nStatistics prove that school-based mentoring will increase academic student involvement. The school-based approach revealed improvement in the classroom and socially. Mentors are matched with a student and they work one on one with the student throughout the school year. Focusing on schoolwork, the student’s interest, and other activities. As a mentor the expectation is to be a positive role model that is supportive and encouraging. This relationship will help motivate the student to be successful in school, reducing school infractions and truancy.\n\n\"Community Based\" is another approach to mentoring. In this setting, a mentor meets youth in the community such as a church, community facility, or by taking the child to community events. Both approaches can be done in a one-on-one or group setting. Individual vs. community based mentoring may be culturally specific, such as in India where youth are less in need of individual attention and thrive in a group setting, according to \"The International Journal of Social Work\".\n\nCommunity engagement statistics states that mentees after mentoring programs are 55% more likely to enroll in college, 78% more likely to volunteer regularly, 90% are interested in becoming a mentor, and 130% more likely to hold leadership positions. \n\nIndividual mentoring, or a one on one setting is where there is one mentor who repeatedly meets with the same mentee for the duration of their program. These partnerships can be found in both community and school-based One on one mentoring is seen in programs such as Big Brothers, Big Sisters in The United States, as well as Mentor Me India in India. Individual mentor relationships or mixed with some group meetings were found to be more effective than solely group mentoring, found in a study in The New Zealand Journal of Psychology.\n\nSmall group mentoring can be beneficial in places where there is a shortage of mentors, or youth are able to learn collectively in a group setting. This works with career oriented mentoring, when the focus is to encourage future success of the individual by bringing in successful professionals as mentors. This has found to be a successful approach in The Roma Mentor Project throughout Europe; it is able to build self-confidence, and social skills while also teaching the importance of Romani culture.\n\nResearch shows that youth mentorship relationships have the highest impact for \"at-risk students” or “disadvantaged” students. Mentoring has shown to have great academic gains for these populations that have higher risk of school failure and dropping out. Although there have been many studies that look at the impact of mentorship and the importance of the length of the mentorship relationship, there has not been many studies that look at the impact of gender in a mentoring relationship. The research that has been done on gender matching in mentoring relationships has resulted in conflicting findings. For example, in a dissertation study the researcher looked at the impact that a male role model may have on “successful” African American middle school males. The study found that the gender of the role model is not the most important factor, the most important factor was that the role model is someone that has certain qualities such as leadership, accomplishments, work ethic, and creates a caring environment. On the other hand, another study looked at the differences between the mentoring relationships that men and women mentors have with their mentees and found that men and women mentor differently. They found that women mentors give more psychosocial mentoring, where as male mentors give more career mentoring. Yet another study found that natural male mentors had a significant impact on African American youth in regards to their future economic benefits. The study found that African American fatherless youth benefited the most when they had a male mentor compared to a female mentor or no mentor at all. Because of these conflicting findings on the impact of gender matching in mentorship relationships, further research needs to be done on this topic.\n\nYouth mentoring takes place around the world, and countries take varying approaches to the concept based off values and needs of that country's youth. There are organizations such as Big Brothers Big Sisters International that have locations worldwide, as well as country specific organizations, such as Mentor Me India. \n\nAustralia has a large number of mentoring program operating across the country utilising a number of mentoring practices - in school mentoring, one on one mentoring, e-mentoring are some common example. Australia also has a peak body representing the youth mentoring sector known as the Australian Youth Mentoring Network - or the AYMN. The AYMN works with interested youth mentoring organisations and practitioners to foster the growth and development of high quality mentoring programs for young people in Australia by providing a national base of collaboration, support, guidance and expertise. It has played a major role in building stronger mentoring practice, and performance in the field. One of the Network’s key achievements includes the creation of the National Youth Mentoring Benchmarks, where over 500 individuals from the mentoring sector contributed to the consultation process and the final product.\n\nThe Romani population is about 1.9% of the total population in Hungary, according to the 2001 census. There are 12 Million Romani across Europe, and they account for one of Europe's most vulnerable populations. Within the Romani population, there is a lack of education amongst youth accompanied by large numbers of illiteracy. Because of this trend, there was the creation of The Roma Mentor Project, which provides successful Romani adults to be role models of Romani youth. The program started in 2006, and by 2011, it spread to four other European countries with 1,400 participants. The program matches professionals in many different fields, such as government officials, professors, musicians, and media figures. These adults meets with groups of youth for two to three hours, twice a month, to influence their future decisions on education and career development. Already the program has found a shift in attitudes toward education and improvement in grades.\n\nMentoring programs in the south of India have begun to rise in rural settings. Mentoring in India can be found in both a one-to-one setting as well as group settings. Mentor Me India is a specific program within urban India and is a program that executes one-to-one mentoring within the community. These mentorships have a focus on girls for aged 10 to 12 for the pilot phase, providing them female professional mentors. Another mentoring program that is starting in rural India implemented by United States researches as well as Indian community members. The purpose was to help with the impoverished youth who do not have access to the same resources as youth in an urban setting. When creating the program, Indian cultural norms and limited resource access were taken into account. The focus of this mentorship program is to develop leadership, academic achievement, and spiritual development while having a community service portion among the youth. According to The Journal of International Social Work, one-on-one mentorships are not as fitting in rural India as they be elsewhere due to a lack of mentors as well as the desire to building peer relationships.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, after high rates of youth incarceration due to apartheid, non-governmental agencies decided there was need to advocate for the youth. The purpose of these organizations is to have an alternative to the formal justice setting, which kept around 30,000 youth per year out of criminal trial. One of the programs, Diversion into Music Education (DIME), has incorporated a mentor base approach through music appreciation. The program does not require any previous music capabilities and focuses on the student, not on the performance. The program is also located in Tampa, Florida, United States and allows for an intercultural exchange of staff members and video between organizations. The mentor's role in this organization is to help youth set and achieve goals and assist in personal growth of the individual. Results from the program have shown positive outcomes on family relationships.\n\nThe largest mentoring program in the United States is Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, a program for youth from ages 6–18. The organization implements both community-based as well as school-based mentoring, and is typically a one-on-one mentorship. There are also programs that are for specific groups of youth such as The National CARES Mentoring Movement, which was created in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The program provides strong black leaders to empower black youth in America for a better future. At the start of the program, 86 percent of black fourth graders were reading below grade level, and 1,000 black children a day were being arrested. After joining the mentoring movement, 98 percent of participants stayed in school as well as avoided gang activity, and teen pregnancy, while 85 percent of youth in the program did not use drugs. Since starting in 2005, the program has influenced over 125,000 black youths. The mentoring typically takes place in the community in a group setting to create positive relations amongst the youth. In 2002, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences published a major report examining after-school and other community programs designed to foster positive youth development. The report concluded that very few after-school programs “have received the kind of comprehensive experimental evaluation necessary to make a firm recommendation about replicating the program in its entirety across the country.” However, the report singled out mentoring programs modeled after the Big Brothers Big Sisters mentoring program as a rare exception, and recommended its widespread replication.\n\n\n"}
