{"id": "10276462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10276462", "title": "Above and Beyond: The Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences", "text": "Above and Beyond: The Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences\n\nAbove and Beyond: The Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences was the first-ever attempt at creating an encyclopedia of all matters related to the history, technology and aims of the aerospace industry as it existed in the late 1960s. Published in 1967 by New Horizons Publishers, Inc., of Chicago, this fourteen-volume collection was aimed primarily at teens and young adults.\n"}
{"id": "18456436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18456436", "title": "Alan Grant bibliography", "text": "Alan Grant bibliography\n\nThis is a list of works by Scottish author Alan Grant.\n\nNovels include\n\nWriting in \"2000 AD\" include:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs well as adaptations of his work, both official (\"Bogie Man\") and unofficial (\"The Lobo Paramilitary Christmas Special\") he has also written directly for film and television:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4051786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4051786", "title": "Anglophone pronunciation of foreign languages", "text": "Anglophone pronunciation of foreign languages\n\nThe following is a list of common non-native pronunciations that English speakers make when trying to speak foreign languages. Many of these are due to transfer of phonological rules from English to the new language as well as differences in grammar and syntax that they encounter.\n\nThis article uses International Phonetic Alphabet pronunciation. See and IPA chart for English for an introduction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49451", "title": "Bayeux Tapestry", "text": "Bayeux Tapestry\n\nThe Bayeux Tapestry (, ; or ; ) is an embroidered cloth nearly long and tall, which depicts the events leading up to the Norman conquest of England concerning William, Duke of Normandy, and Harold, Earl of Wessex, later King of England, and culminating in the Battle of Hastings. It is thought to date to the 11th century, within a few years after the battle. It tells the story from the point of view of the conquering Normans, but is now agreed to have been made in England.\n\nAccording to Sylvette Lemagnen, conservator of the tapestry, in her 2005 book \"La Tapisserie de Bayeux\":\n\nThe cloth consists of some fifty scenes with Latin \"tituli\", embroidered on linen with coloured woollen yarns. It is likely that it was commissioned by Bishop Odo, William's half-brother, and made in England—not Bayeux—in the 1070s. In 1729 the hanging was rediscovered by scholars at a time when it was being displayed annually in Bayeux Cathedral. The tapestry is now exhibited at the Musée de la Tapisserie de Bayeux in Bayeux, Normandy, France \n\nThe designs on the Bayeux Tapestry are embroidered rather than woven, so that it is not technically a tapestry. Nevertheless, it has always been referred to as a tapestry until recent years when the name \"Bayeux Embroidery\" has gained ground among certain art historians. It can be seen as a rare example of secular Romanesque art. Tapestries adorned both churches and wealthy houses in Medieval Western Europe, though at 0.5 by 68.38 metres (1.6 by 224.3 ft, and apparently incomplete) the Bayeux Tapestry is exceptionally large. Only the figures and decoration are embroidered, on a background left plain, which shows the subject very clearly and was necessary to cover large areas.\n\nOn 18 January 2018, French President Emmanuel Macron announced that the Bayeux Tapestry would be loaned to Britain for public display. It is expected to be exhibited at the British Museum in London from 2022. It will be the first time that it has left France in 950 years.\n\nThe earliest known written reference to the tapestry is a 1476 inventory of Bayeux Cathedral, but its origins have been the subject of much speculation and controversy.\n\nFrench legend maintained the tapestry was commissioned and created by Queen Matilda, William the Conqueror's wife, and her ladies-in-waiting. Indeed, in France, it is occasionally known as \"La Tapisserie de la Reine Mathilde\" (Tapestry of Queen Matilda). However, scholarly analysis in the 20th century concluded it was probably commissioned by William's half-brother, Bishop Odo, who, after the Conquest, became Earl of Kent and, when William was absent in Normandy, regent of England.\n\nThe reasons for the Odo commission theory include: 1) three of the bishop's followers mentioned in the \"Domesday Book\" appear on the tapestry; 2) it was found in Bayeux Cathedral, built by Odo; and 3) it may have been commissioned at the same time as the cathedral's construction in the 1070s, possibly completed by 1077 in time for display on the cathedral's dedication.\n\nAssuming Odo commissioned the tapestry, it was probably designed and constructed in England by Anglo-Saxon artists (Odo's main power base being by then in Kent); the Latin text contains hints of Anglo-Saxon; other embroideries originate from England at this time; and the vegetable dyes can be found in cloth traditionally woven there. Howard B. Clarke has proposed that the designer of the tapestry was Scolland, the abbot of St Augustine's Abbey in Canterbury, because of his previous position as head of the scriptorium at Mont Saint-Michel (famed for its illumination), his travels to Trajan's Column, and his connections to Wadard and Vital, two individuals identified in the tapestry. The actual physical work of stitching was most likely undertaken by female needleworkers. Anglo-Saxon needlework of the more detailed type known as Opus Anglicanum was famous across Europe. It was perhaps commissioned for display in the hall of his palace and then bequeathed to the cathedral he built, following the pattern of the documented but lost hanging of Byrhtnoth.\n\nAlternative theories exist. Carola Hicks has suggested it could possibly have been commissioned by Edith of Wessex. Wolfgang Grape has challenged the consensus that the embroidery is Anglo-Saxon, distinguishing between Anglo-Saxon and other Northern European techniques; Medieval material authority Elizabeth Coatsworth contradicted this: \"The attempt to distinguish Anglo-Saxon from other Northern European embroideries before 1100 on the grounds of technique cannot be upheld on the basis of present knowledge.\" George Beech suggests the tapestry was executed at the Abbey of St. Florent in the Loire Valley, and says the detailed depiction of the Breton campaign argues for additional sources in France. Andrew Bridgeford has suggested that the tapestry was actually of English design and encoded with secret messages meant to undermine Norman rule.\n\nIn common with other embroidered hangings of the early medieval period, this piece is conventionally referred to as a \"tapestry\", although it is not a true tapestry in which the design is woven into the cloth; it is in fact an embroidery.\n\nThe Bayeux tapestry is embroidered in crewel (wool yarn) on a tabby-woven linen ground 68.38 metres long and 0.5 metres wide () and using two methods of stitching: outline or stem stitch for lettering and the outlines of figures, and couching or laid work for filling in figures. Nine linen panels, between fourteen and three metres in length, were sewn together after each was embroidered and the joins were disguised with subsequent embroidery. At the first join (start of scene 14) the borders do not line up properly but the technique was improved so that the later joins are practically invisible. The design involved a broad central zone with narrow decorative borders top and bottom. By inspecting the woollen threads behind the linen it is apparent all these aspects were embroidered together at a session and the awkward placing of the \"tituli\" is not due to them being added later. Later generations have patched the hanging in numerous places and some of the embroidery (especially in the final scene) has been reworked. The tapestry may well have maintained much of its original appearance—it now compares closely with a careful drawing made in 1730.\n\nThe main yarn colours are terracotta or russet, blue-green, dull gold, olive green, and blue, with small amounts of dark blue or black and sage green. Later repairs are worked in light yellow, orange, and light greens. Laid yarns are couched in place with yarn of the same or contrasting colour.\n\nThe tapestry's central zone contains most of the action, which sometimes overflows into the borders either for dramatic effect or because depictions would otherwise be very cramped (for example at Edward's death scene). Events take place in a long series of scenes which are generally separated by highly stylised trees. However, the trees are not placed consistently and the greatest scene shift, between Harold's audience with Edward after his return to England and Edward's burial scene, is not marked in any way at all.\n\nThe \"tituli\" are normally in the central zone but occasionally use the top border. The borders are otherwise mostly purely decorative and only sometimes does the decoration complement the action in the central zone. The decoration consists of birds, beasts, fish and scenes from fables, agriculture, and hunting. There are frequent oblique bands separating the vignettes. There are nude figures, some of corpses from battle, others of a ribald nature. A harrow, a newly invented implement, is depicted (scene 10) and this is the earliest known depiction. The picture of Halley's Comet, which appears in the upper border (scene 32), is the first known picture of this comet.\n\nThe end of the tapestry has been missing from time immemorial and the final \"titulus\" \"Et fuga verterunt Angli\" (\"and the English left fleeing\") is said to be \"entirely spurious\", added shortly before 1814 at a time of anti-English sentiment. Musset speculates the hanging was originally about 1.5 metres longer. At the last section still remaining the embroidery has been almost completely restored but this seems to have been done with at least some regard to the original stitching. The stylised tree is quite unlike any other tree in the tapestry. The start of the tapestry has also been restored but to a much lesser extent.\n\nIn 1724 a linen backing cloth was sewn on comparatively crudely and, in around the year 1800, large ink numerals were written on the backing which broadly enumerate each scene and which are still commonly used for reference.\n\nIn a series of pictures supported by a written commentary the tapestry tells the story of the events of 1064–1066 culminating in the Battle of Hastings. The two main protagonists are Harold Godwinson, recently crowned King of England, leading the Anglo-Saxon English, and William, Duke of Normandy, leading a mainly Norman army, sometimes called the companions of William the Conqueror.\n\nWilliam was the illegitimate son of Robert the Magnificent, Duke of Normandy, and Herleva (or Arlette), a tanner's daughter. William became Duke of Normandy at the age of seven and was in control of Normandy by the age of nineteen. His half-brother was Bishop Odo of Bayeux.\n\nKing Edward the Confessor, king of England and about sixty years old at the time the tapestry starts its narration, had no children or any clear successor. Edward's mother, Emma of Normandy, was William's great aunt. At that time succession to the English throne was not by primogeniture but was decided jointly by the king and by an assembly of nobility, the Witenagemot.\n\nHarold Godwinson, Earl of Wessex and the most powerful noble in England, was Edward's brother-in-law. The Norman chronicler William of Poitiers reported that Edward had previously determined that William would succeed him on the throne, and Harold had sworn to honour this, and yet later that Harold had claimed Edward, on his deathbed, had made him heir over William. However, other sources, such as Eadmer dispute this claim.\n\nThe tapestry begins with a panel of Edward the Confessor sending Harold to Normandy. Later Norman sources say that the mission was for Harold to pledge loyalty to William but the tapestry does not suggest any specific purpose. By mischance, Harold arrives at the wrong location in France and is taken prisoner by Guy, Count of Ponthieu. After exchanges of messages borne by mounted messengers, Harold is released to William who then invites Harold to accompany him on a campaign against Conan II, Duke of Brittany. On the way, just outside the monastery of Mont Saint-Michel, the army become mired in quicksand and Harold saves two Norman soldiers. William's army chases Conan from Dol de Bretagne to Rennes, and Conan finally surrenders at Dinan. William gives Harold arms and armour (possibly knighting him) and Harold takes an oath on saintly relics. Although the writing on the tapestry explicitly states an oath is taken there is no clue as to what is being promised.\n\nHarold leaves for home and meets again with the old king Edward, who appears to be remonstrating with him. Harold is in a somewhat submissive posture and seems to be in disgrace. However, possibly deliberately, the king's intentions are not made clear. The scene then shifts by about one year to when Edward has become mortally ill and the tapestry strongly suggests that, on his deathbed, he bequeaths the crown to Harold. What is probably the coronation ceremony is attended by Stigand, whose position as Archbishop of Canterbury was controversial. Stigand is performing a liturgical function, possibly not the crowning itself. The tapestry labels the celebrant as \"Stigant Archieps\" (Stigand the archbishop) although by that time he had been excommunicated by the papacy who considered his appointment unlawful.\nA star with a streaming tail, probably Halley's Comet, then appears. At this point, the lower border of the tapestry shows a fleet of ghost-like ships thus hinting at a future invasion. The news of Harold's coronation is taken to Normandy, whereupon we are told that William is ordering a fleet of ships to be built although it is Bishop Odo shown issuing the instructions. The invaders reach England, and land unopposed. William orders his men to find food, and a meal is cooked. A house is burnt by two soldiers, which may indicate some ravaging of the local countryside on the part of the invaders, and underneath, on a smaller scale than the arsonists, a woman holds her boy's hand as she asks for humanity. News is brought to William. The Normans build a motte and bailey at Hastings to defend their position. Messengers are sent between the two armies, and William makes a speech to prepare his army for battle.\nThe Battle of Hastings was fought on 14 October 1066 less than three weeks after the Battle of Stamford Bridge but the tapestry does not provide this context. The English fight on foot behind a shield wall, whilst the Normans are on horses. Two fallen knights are named as Leofwine and Gyrth, Harold's brothers, but both armies are shown fighting bravely. Bishop Odo brandishes his baton or mace and rallies the Norman troops in battle. To reassure his knights that he is still alive and well, William raises his helmet to show his face. The battle becomes very bloody with troops being slaughtered and dismembered corpses littering the ground. King Harold is killed. This scene can be interpreted in different ways, as the name \"Harold\" appears above a number of knights, making it difficult to identify which character is Harold, since one character appears with an arrow shot in his head under the name \"Harold\" while another character is slain by a sword underneath the words \"he is slain\". The final remaining scene shows unarmoured English troops fleeing the battlefield. The last part of the tapestry is missing but it is thought that the story contained only one additional scene.\n\n\"Tituli\" are included in many scenes to point out names of people and places or to explain briefly the event being depicted. The text is in Latin but at times the style of words and spelling shows an English influence. A dark blue wool, almost black, is mostly used but towards the end of the tapestry other colours are used, sometimes for each word and other times for each letter. The complete text and English translation are displayed beside images of each scene at Bayeux Tapestry tituli.\n\nThe first reference to the tapestry is from 1476 when it was listed in an inventory of the treasures of Bayeux Cathedral. It survived the sack of Bayeux by the Huguenots in 1562; and the next certain reference is from 1724. Antoine Lancelot sent a report to the \"Académie Royale des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres\" concerning a sketch he had received about a work concerning William the Conqueror. He had no idea where or what the original was, although he suggested it could have been a tapestry. Despite further enquiries he discovered no more.\n\nThe Benedictine scholar Bernard de Montfaucon made more successful investigations and found that the sketch was of a small portion of a tapestry preserved at Bayeux Cathedral. In 1729 and 1730 he published drawings and a detailed description of the complete work in the first two volumes of his \"Les Monuments de la Monarchie française\". The drawings were by Antoine Benoît, one of the ablest draughtsmen of that time.\n\nThe tapestry was first briefly noted in English in 1743 by William Stukeley, in his \"Palaeographia Britannica\". The first detailed account in English was written by Smart Lethieullier, who was living in Paris in 1732–3, and was acquainted with Lancelot and de Montfaucon: it was not published, however, until 1767, as an appendix to Andrew Ducarel's \"Anglo-Norman Antiquities\".\n\nDuring the French Revolution, in 1792, the tapestry was confiscated as public property to be used for covering military wagons. It was rescued from a wagon by a local lawyer who stored it in his house until the troubles were over, whereupon he sent it to the city administrators for safekeeping. After the Terror the Fine Arts Commission, set up to safeguard national treasures in 1803, required it to be removed to Paris for display at the Musée Napoléon. When Napoleon abandoned his planned invasion of Britain the tapestry's propaganda value was lost and it was returned to Bayeux where the council displayed it on a winding apparatus of two cylinders. Despite scholars' concern that the tapestry was becoming damaged the council refused to return it to the Cathedral.\n\nIn 1816 the Society of Antiquaries of London commissioned its historical draughtsman, Charles Stothard, to visit Bayeux to make an accurate hand-coloured facsimile of the tapestry. His drawings were subsequently engraved by James Basire jr. and published by the Society in 1819–23. Stothard's images are still of value as a record of the tapestry as it was before 19th-century restoration.\n\nBy 1842 the tapestry was displayed in a special-purpose room in the Bibliothèque Publique. It required special storage in 1870 with the threatened invasion of Normandy in the Franco-Prussian War and again in 1939–1944 by the Ahnenerbe during the German Occupation of France and the Normandy landings. On 27 June 1944 the Gestapo took the tapestry to the Louvre and on 18 August, three days before the Wehrmacht withdrew from Paris, Himmler sent a message (intercepted by Bletchley Park) ordering it to be taken to \"a place of safety\", thought to be Berlin. It was only on 22 August that the SS attempted to take possession of the tapestry by which time the Louvre was again in French hands. After the liberation of Paris, on 25 August, the tapestry was again put on public display in the Louvre, and in 1945 it was returned to Bayeux where it is exhibited at the Musée de la Tapisserie de Bayeux.\n\nThe inventory listing of 1476 shows that the tapestry was being hung annually in Bayeux Cathedral for the week of the Feast of St. John the Baptist; and this was still the case in 1728, although by that time the purpose was merely to air the hanging, which was otherwise stored in a chest. Clearly, the work was being well cared for. In the eighteenth century, the artistry was regarded as crude or even barbarous—red and yellow multi-coloured horses upset some critics. It was thought to be unfinished because the linen was not covered with embroidery. However, its exhibition in the Louvre in 1797 caused a sensation, with \"Le Moniteur\", which normally dealt with foreign affairs, reporting on it on its first two pages. It inspired a popular musical, \"La Tapisserie de la Reine Mathilde\". It was because the tapestry was regarded as an antiquity rather than a work of art that in 1804 it was returned to Bayeux, wherein 1823 one commentator, A. L. Léchaudé d'Anisy, reported that \"there is a sort of purity in its primitive forms, especially considering the state of the arts in the eleventh century\".\n\nThe tapestry was becoming a tourist attraction, with Robert Southey complaining of the need to queue to see the work. In the 1843 \"Hand-book for Travellers in France\" by John Murray III, a visit was included on \"Recommended Route 26 (Caen to Cherbourg via Bayeux)\", and this guidebook led John Ruskin to go there; he would describe the tapestry as \"the most interesting thing in its way conceivable\". Charles Dickens, however, was not impressed: \"It is certainly the work of amateurs; very feeble amateurs at the beginning and very heedless some of them too.\"\n\nDuring the Second World War Heinrich Himmler coveted the work, regarding it as \"important for our glorious and cultured Germanic history\".\n\nThe depiction of events on the tapestry raises several mysteries:\n\nThe Bayeux Tapestry was probably commissioned by the House of Normandy and essentially depicts a Norman viewpoint. However, Harold is shown as brave, and his soldiers are not belittled. Throughout, William is described as \"dux\" (\"duke\"), whereas Harold, also called \"dux\" up to his coronation, is subsequently called \"rex\" (\"king\"). The fact that the narrative extensively covers Harold's activities in Normandy (in 1064) indicates that the intention was to show a strong relationship between that expedition and the Norman Conquest starting two years later. It is for this reason that the tapestry is generally seen by modern scholars as an apologia for the Norman Conquest.\nThe tapestry's narration seems to place stress on Harold's oath to William, although its rationale is not made clear. Norman sources claim that the English succession was being pledged to William, but English sources give varied accounts. Today it is thought that the Norman sources are to be preferred. Both the tapestry and Norman sources name Stigand, the excommunicated archbishop of Canterbury, as the man who crowned Harold, possibly to discredit Harold's kingship; one English source suggests that he was crowned by Ealdred, archbishop of York, and favoured by the papacy, making Harold's position as legitimate king more secure. Contemporary scholarship has not decided the matter, although it is generally thought that Ealdred performed the coronation.\n\nAlthough political propaganda or personal emphasis may have somewhat distorted the historical accuracy of the story, the Bayeux Tapestry constitutes a visual record of medieval arms, apparel, and other objects unlike any other artifact surviving from this period. There is no attempt at continuity between scenes, either in individuals' appearance or clothing. The knights carry shields, but show no system of hereditary coats of arms—the beginnings of modern heraldic structure were in place, but would not become standard until the middle of the 12th century. It has been noted that the warriors are depicted fighting with bare hands, while other sources indicate the general use of gloves in battle and hunt.\n\nTapestry fragments have been found in Scandinavia dating from the ninth century and it is thought that Norman and Anglo-Saxon embroidery developed from this sort of work. Examples are to be found in the grave goods of the Oseberg ship and the Överhogdal tapestries.\n\nA monastic text from Ely, the \"Liber Eliensis\", mentions a woven narrative wall-hanging commemorating the deeds of Byrhtnoth, killed in 991. Wall-hangings were common by the tenth century with English and Norman texts particularly commending the skill of Anglo-Saxon seamstresses. Mural paintings imitating draperies still exist in France and Italy and there are twelfth-century mentions of other wall-hangings in Normandy and France. A poem by Baldric of Dol might even describe the Bayeux Tapestry itself. The Bayeux Tapestry was therefore not unique at the time it was created: rather it is remarkable for being the sole surviving example of medieval narrative needlework.\n\nA number of replicas of the Bayeux Tapestry have been created. Through the collaboration of William Morris with textile manufacturer Thomas Wardle, Wardle's wife Elizabeth, who was an accomplished seamstress, embarked on creating a reproduction in 1885. She organised some 37 women in her \"Leek School of Art Embroidery\" to collaborate working from a full-scale water-colour facsimile drawing provided by the South Kensington Museum. The full-size replica was finished in 1886 and is now exhibited in Reading Museum in Reading, Berkshire, England. The naked figure in the original tapestry (in the border below the Ælfgyva figure) is depicted wearing a brief garment because the drawing which was worked from was similarly bowdlerised.\n\nRay Dugan of University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, completed a stitched replica in 1996. Since its completion, it has been displayed in various museums and galleries in Canada and the United States.\n\nIn 2000, the Danish-based Bayeux Group, part of the Viking Group Lindholm Høje, began making an accurate replica of the Bayeux Tapestry, using the original sewing techniques. The replica was completed in June 2014 and went on permanent exhibition at Børglum Abbey in May 2015.\n\nDr. E. D. Wheeler, former judge and former dean at Oglethorpe University, commissioned a hand-painted, full-size replica of the Bayeux Tapestry and donated it to the University of West Georgia in Carrollton in 1994. In 2014, the replica was acquired by the University of North Georgia in Dahlonega.\nAn approximately half scale mosaic version of the Bayeux Tapestry was formerly on display at Geraldine, New Zealand. It was made up of 1.5 million 7 mm pieces of spring steel – off-cuts from patterning disks of knitting machines – and was created by Michael Linton over a period of twenty years from 1979. The work was in 32 sections, and included a hypothetical reconstruction of the missing final section leading up to William the Conqueror's coronation at Westminster Abbey on Christmas Day, 1066.\n\nJason Welch, a woodcarver from North Creake, Norfolk, England, created a replica of the Tapestry between 2011 and 2014 in carved and painted wooden relief on 25 five-foot planks. He undertook the project to help cope with the grief of losing his 16-year-old son.\n\nOther modern artists have attempted to complete the work by creating panels depicting subsequent events up to William's coronation, though the actual content of the missing panels is unknown. In 1997, the embroidery artist Jan Messent completed a reconstruction showing William accepting the surrender of English nobles at Berkhamsted (\"Beorcham\"), Hertfordshire, and his coronation. In early 2013, 416 residents of Alderney in the Channel Islands finished a continuation including William's coronation and the building of the Tower of London.\n\nBecause it resembles a modern comic strip or movie storyboard, is widely recognised, and is so distinctive in its artistic style, the Bayeux Tapestry has frequently been used or reimagined in a variety of different popular culture contexts. George Wingfield Digby wrote in 1957:\nIt has been cited by Scott McCloud in \"Understanding Comics\" as an example of early sequential-narrative art; and Bryan Talbot, a British comic book artist, has called it \"the first known British comic strip\".\n\nIt has inspired many modern political and other cartoons, including:\n\nThe tapestry has also inspired modern embroideries, notably:\n\nA number of films have used sections of the tapestry in their opening credits or closing titles, including Disney's \"Bedknobs and Broomsticks\", Anthony Mann's \"El Cid\", Franco Zeffirelli's \"Hamlet\", Frank Cassenti's \"La Chanson de Roland\", Kevin Reynolds' \"\", and Richard Fleischer's \"The Vikings\".\n\nThe design and embroidery of the tapestry form one of the narrative strands of Marta Morazzoni's 1988 novella \"The Invention of Truth\".\n\nThe tapestry is referred to in Tony Kushner's play \"\". The apocryphal account of Queen Matilda's creation of the tapestry is used, perhaps in order to demonstrate that Louis, one of the main characters, holds himself to mythological standards.\n\nThe Ulster Museum in Northern Ireland currently hosts a \"Game of Thrones\" tapestry inspired by the Bayeux tapestry, depicting the events of the television show.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3691969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691969", "title": "Benjamin Ives Gilman", "text": "Benjamin Ives Gilman\n\nBenjamin Ives Gilman (1852–1933) was the Secretary of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts from 1893 to 1925.\n\nBenjamin Ives Gilman was born in New York in 1852, the son of Winthrop Sargent Gilman and the former Abia Swift Lippincott. He attended Williams College (class of 1872) but did not graduate on account of health problems. He then joined his family’s banking business. In 1880 he received a Masters from Williams and the next year he entered the Ph.D. program at Johns Hopkins University as a philosophy student, focusing on mathematics and logic. He studied with Charles Sanders Peirce, one of the founders of modern mathematical logic. As \"B.I. Gilman\" he authored a paper published in Peirce's 1883 \"Studies in Logic\".\n\nGilman left Johns Hopkins after one year to study in Germany, and did not return, citing health reasons. He became a student of William James at the Philosophy Department of Harvard University, enrolling there 1883-1885, and specializing in aesthetics, and especially the aesthetics of music. Between 1890 and 1892, he taught courses in the psychology of music at Colorado College, Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia. He undertook experimental research on expressiveness in music and studied \"primitive music,\" making some of the first recordings and analyses of recordings of Native American music. He also wrote on Chinese music, visiting New York's Chinatown to make recordings. His recordings of music from Fijian, Samoan, Uvean, Javanese, Turkish and other performers at the Columbian Exposition are at the Library of Congress. In 1892 Gilman became an instructor in psychology at Clark University. There he taught a course on the Psychology of Pain and Pleasure.\n\nIn 1893 Gilman was hired as Curator and Librarian at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where he would work for his entire career. He held a variety of titles, including curator (1893-1894?); Librarian (1893-1904); Assistant Director, 1901-1903); and Temporary Director (1907); but for almost the entire time he had the title Secretary (1894-1925), with responsibility for publications and advising the Director and the Board. In his remarks to the board and in his publications he would urge art museums to display masterpieces of art, not reproductions, and make it easy for the visitor to engage with them; to consider the visitor's comfort (he coined the term \"museum fatigue\"); and to focus on aesthetics, not on art history. He also introduced docents to the museum, coining that word. His major publication \"Museum Ideals of Purpose and Method\" (1918) is an extended argument for this idea of the museum.\n\nHe was the author of:\n\nas well as many other articles on a wide range of philosophical, mathematical, political, and museological topics.\n\nNew York State Comptroller Theodore P. Gilman was his brother.\n"}
{"id": "8629620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629620", "title": "Best current practice", "text": "Best current practice\n\nA Best Current Practice (BCP) is a \"de facto\" level of performance in engineering and information technology. It is more flexible than a standard, since techniques and tools are continually evolving.\n\nThe Internet Engineering Task Force publishes Best Current Practice documents in a numbered document series. Each document in this series is paired with the currently valid Request for Comments (RFC) document. BCP was introduced in RFC-1818.\n\nBCPs are document guidelines, processes, methods, and other matters not suitable for standardization. The Internet standards process itself is defined in a series of BCPs, as is the formal organizational structure of the IETF, Internet Engineering Steering Group, Internet Architecture Board, and other groups involved in that process. \n\nIETF's separate Standard Track (STD) document series defines the fully standardized network protocols of the Internet, such as the Internet Protocol, the Transmission Control Protocol, and the Domain Name System.\n\nEach RFC number refers to a specific version of a document Standard Track, but the BCP number refers to the most recent revision of the document. Thus, citations often reference both the BCP number and the RFC number.\n\nExample citations for BCPs are: BCP 38, RFC 2827.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3877787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3877787", "title": "Bibliotheca Corviniana", "text": "Bibliotheca Corviniana\n\nBibliotheca Corviniana was one of the most renowned libraries of the Renaissance world, established by Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, in Buda Castle between 1458 and 1490. It was destroyed after the Hungarian defeat by the Ottomans in the Battle of Mohács in 1526.\n\nMatthias, one of the most powerful rulers of the age, started to collect the books from about 1460. At the king's death in 1490, the library consisted of about 3,000 codices or \"Corvinae\" which included about four to five thousand various works, many of classical Greek and Latin authors. It represented the literary production and reflected the state of knowledge and arts of the Renaissance and included works of philosophy, theology, history, law, literature, geography, natural sciences, medicine, architecture, and many others. The Turkish invasion of Hungary in the 16th century destroyed the codices. Only about 216 Corvinae survived, today preserved in several libraries in Hungary and Europe.\n\nNorth of the Alps, Matthias' library was the largest in Europe, and its vast contents was only second to the Vatican Library in the whole of Europe, according to contemporary accounts. It was the greatest collection of science writings in its time. In 1489, Bartolomeo della Fonte of Florence wrote that Lorenzo de Medici founded his own Greek-Latin library encouraged by the example of the Hungarian king.\n\nNearly two thirds of the surviving volumes had not been printed before the king's death. Some of them contained the sole copy of the works in them, like the book of Constantine Porphyrogennetos on the habits in the court of the Byzantine emperor, or the church history of Nikephoros Kallistos. Some lost Corvinae works are also known, with which the only copy of ancient books perished, including the full works of Hypereides, and writings by Flavius Cresconius Corippus, Cuspinianus and Procopius.\n\nHungary's National Széchényi Library is working on projects to restore the Corvina library in digital form.\n\nItems from the Bibliotheca Corviniana were inscribed on UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register in 2005 in recognition of their historical significance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28361417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28361417", "title": "Báb", "text": "Báb\n\nThe Báb, born Siyyid `Alí Muhammad Shírází (; ; October 20, 1819 – July 9, 1850) was the founder of Bábism, and one of the central figures of the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nThe Báb was a merchant from Shiraz in Qajar Iran who in 1844, at the age of twenty-four, claimed to be a messenger of God. He took on the title of the \"Báb\" (; ), meaning \"Gate\" or \"Door\", a reference associated with the promised Twelver Mahdi or al-Qá'im. He faced opposition from the Persian government, which eventually executed him and thousands of his followers, who were known as Bábís.\n\nThe Báb composed numerous letters and books in which he stated his claims and defined his teachings. He introduced the idea of He whom God shall make manifest, a messianic figure who would bring a greater message than his own.\n\nTo Bahá'ís, the Báb fills a similar role as Elijah or John the Baptist; a predecessor or forerunner who paved the way for their own religion. Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, was a follower of the Báb and claimed in 1863 to be the fulfillment of the Báb's prophecy, 13 years after the former's death.\n\nThe Bab was born on October 20, 1819 (1 Muharram 1235 AH) in Shiraz to a middle-class merchant of the city and given the name Ali Muhammad. His father was Muhammad Ridá, and his mother was Fátimih (1800–1881), a daughter of a prominent merchant in Shiraz. She later became a Bahá'í. He was orphaned when his father died while he was quite young and his maternal uncle Hájí Mírzá Siyyid `Alí, a merchant, raised him. A descendant from Muhammad, a sayyid, through Husayn ibn Ali through both his parents. In Shiraz his uncle sent him to maktab, primary school, and stayed for six or seven years. Sometime between 15 and 20 he joined his uncle in the family business, a trading house, and became a merchant in the city of Bushehr, Iran, near the Persian Gulf. Some of his earlier writings suggest that he did not enjoy the business and instead applied himself to the study of religious literature. One of his contemporary followers described him as \"very taciturn, and [he] would never utter a word unless it was absolutely necessary. He did not even answer our questions. He was constantly absorbed in his own thoughts, and was preoccupied with repetition of his prayers and verses. He is described as a handsome man with a thin beard, dressed in clean clothes, wearing a green shawl and a black turban.\"\n\nAn English physician described the young man by saying: \"He was a very mild and delicate-looking man, rather small in stature and very fair for a Persian, with a melodious soft voice, which struck me much\".\n\nIn 1842 he married Khadíjih-Bagum (1822–1882); he was 23 and she was 20. She was the daughter of a prominent merchant in Shíráz. The marriage proved a happy one, and they had one child, a boy named Ahmad who died the year he was born - 1843. The pregnancy jeopardized Khadijih's life and she never conceived again. The young couple occupied a modest house in Shiraz along with the Báb's mother. Later, Khadijih became a Bahá'í.\n\nIn the 1790s in Persia, Shaykh Ahmad (1753–1826) began a religious movement within Twelver Shia Islam. His followers, who became known as Shaykhis, were expecting the imminent appearance of the \"al-Qa'im\" of the Ahl al-Bayt also called \"the Mahdi\". After the death of Shaykh Ahmad, leadership was passed on to Kazim Rashti (1793–1843).\n\nIn 1841 the Báb went on pilgrimage to Iraq, and for seven months stayed mostly in and around Karbala. There he may have met Kazim Rashti, who showed a high regard for him. He is believed to have attended some of Kazim Rashti's lectures; however, this period is almost entirely undocumented.\n\nAs of his death in December 1843, Kazim Rashti counselled his followers to leave their homes to seek the Mahdi, who, according to his prophecies, would soon appear. One of these followers, Mullá Husayn, after keeping vigil for forty days in a mosque, travelled to Shiraz, where he met the Báb.\n\nThe Báb's first religious inspiration experience claimed, and witnessed by his wife, is dated to about the evening of 3 April 1844. The Báb's first public connection with his sense of a mission came with the arrival of Mullá Husayn in Shiraz. On the night of 22 May Mullá Husayn was invited by the Báb to his home where Mullá Husayn told him of his search for the possible successor to Kazim Rashti, the Promised One. The Báb claimed this, and the bearer of divine knowledge. Mullá Husayn became the first to accept the Báb's claims to be an inspired figure and a likely successor to Kazim Rashti. The Báb had replied satisfactorily to all of Mullá Husayn's questions and had written in his presence, with extreme rapidity, a long tafsir, commentary, on surah \"Yusuf\", known as the Qayyúmu'l-Asmá' and considered the Báb's first revealed work.\n\nMullá Husayn became the Báb's first disciple. Within five months, seventeen other disciples of Kazim Rashti recognized the Báb as a Manifestation of God. Among them, one woman, Fátimih Zarrín Táj Baragháni, a poet, who later received the name of Táhirih, the Pure. These 18 disciples later became known as the Letters of the Living (each soul containing one letter of the Spirit of God, which combine to form the Word) and given the task of spreading the new faith (understood as the return or continuation of the one Faith of Abraham) across Iran and Iraq. The Báb emphasized the spiritual station of these 18 individuals, who, along with himself, made the first \"Unity\" of his religion according to the Arabic term \"wāhid\", unity, that has a numerical value of 19 using abjad numerals. The Báb's book, the \"Persian Bayán\", gives the metaphorical identity of the Letters of the Living as the Fourteen Infallibles of Twelver Shi'i Islam: Muhammad, the Twelve Imams, and Fatimah, and the four archangels. Paralleling the first followers of Christ.\n\nIn his early writings, the Báb appears to identify himself as the gate (\"báb\") to the Hidden Twelfth Imam, and later begins explicitly to proclaim his station as that of the Hidden Imam and a new messenger from God. Rather than being a discontinued or evolving consciousness, Saiedi states that the works of the Báb are unitary throughout, and that the gradual disclosure of the Báb's identity is defined by the principle of unity in diversity.\nIn the Báb's early writings, the exalted identity he was claiming was unmistakable, but because of the reception of the people, his writings appear to convey the impression that he is only the gate to the Hidden Twelfth Imam. To his circle of early believers, the Báb was equivocal about his exact status, gradually confiding in them as not merely a gate to the Hidden Imam, but the Manifestation of the Hidden Imam and the Qa'im himself. During his early meetings with Mullá Husayn, the Báb described himself as the Master and the Promised One. He did not consider himself as simply Kazim Rashti's successor, but claimed a prophetic status, a kind of deputy, delegated not just by the Hidden Imam but through Divine authority. His early texts such as the \"Commentary on the Surih of Joseph\" used Quranic language that implied divine authority and identified himself effectively with the Imam. When Mullá `Alí Basṭámí, the second Letter of the Living, was put on trial in Baghdad for preaching about the Báb, clerics studied the \"Commentary on the Surih of Joseph,\" recognized in it a claim to divine revelation, and quoted from it in opposition to prove he had done so.\n\nHowever, in the early phase of his declaration to the public, the title \"báb\" was emphasized as that of the gate leading to the Hidden Imam, as the Báb had told his early believers not to fully disclose his claims or reveal his name. The approach of laying claim to a lower position was intended to create a sense of anticipation for the appearance of the Hidden Imam, as well to avoid persecution and imprisonment, because a public proclamation of mahdi status could bring a swift penalty of death. After a couple of months, as the Báb observed further acceptance and readiness among his believers and the public, he gradually shifted his public claim to that of the Hidden Imam. Then in his final years he publicly announced his station as a Manifestation of God. In his trial, he boldly proclaimed himself, in the presence of the Heir to the Throne of Persia and other notables, the Promised One. Finally, in his last authored work, the Haykal al-din, he claimed the \"essence of God\", dhātu’llāh. In the early months of his public declarations, the adoption of a cautious policy had essentially achieved maximum attention with minimum controversy.\n\nHowever, the gradual unfolding of his claims caused some confusion, both among the public and for some of his believers. A number of his early followers had instantly recognized his station as a messenger from God with divine authority, and this resulted in disagreement within the Bábi community. Even though the Báb had intended to convey his message with discretion, many of his followers such as Táhirih openly declared the coming of the promised Hidden Imam and Mahdi.\n\nAfter the eighteen Letters of the Living recognized him, the Báb and the eighteenth Letter of the Living, Quddús, left on a pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina, the sacred cities of Islam. At the Kaaba in Mecca, the Báb publicly claimed the Qa'im., and wrote to the Sharif of Mecca, the Custodian of the Kaaba, proclaiming his mission. After their pilgrimage, the Báb and Quddús returned to Bushehr, Iran.\n\nAfter some time, preaching by the Letters of the Living led to opposition by the Islamic clergy, prompting the Governor of Shiraz to order the Báb's arrest. The Báb, upon hearing of the arrest order, left Bushehr for Shiraz in June 1845 and presented himself to the authorities and placed under house arrest at the home of his uncle until a cholera epidemic broke out in the city in September 1846. Once released he departed for Isfahan. There, many came to see him at the house of the \"imam jum'a\", head of the local clergy, who became sympathetic. After an informal gathering where the Báb debated the local clergy and displayed his speed in producing instantaneous verses, his popularity soared. After the death of the governor of Isfahan, Manouchehr Khan Gorji, his supporter, pressure from the clergy of the province led to Mohammad Shah Qajar ordering the Báb to Tehran in January 1847. After spending several months in a camp outside Tehran, and before the Báb could meet the Shah, the Prime Minister sent the Báb to Tabriz in the northwestern corner of the country, to his confinement.\nAfter forty days in Tabriz, the Báb transferred to the fortress of Maku, Iran in the province of Azerbaijian close to the Turkish border. During his incarceration there, the Báb began his most important work, the \"Persian Bayán\", that he never finished. Because of the Báb's growing popularity in Maku, even the governor of Maku converting, the prime minister transferred him to the fortress of Chehriq in April 1848. There too the Báb's popularity grew and his jailors relaxed restrictions on him. It was at this time that Áqa Bálá Big Shíshvání Naqshbandí painted the portrait of the Báb. Then the Prime Minister ordered the Báb back to Tabriz, where the government called on religious authorities to put the Báb on trial for blasphemy and apostasy.\n\nThe trial, attended by the Crown Prince, occurred in July 1848 and involved numerous local clergy. They questioned the Báb about the nature of his claims, his teachings, and demanded that he produce miracles to prove his divine authority. They admonished him to recant his claims. There are nine extant eyewitness reports of the trial, of which several may originate from an earlier source. Six of the reports are from Muslim accounts, and portray the Báb in an unfavourable light. There are 62 questions found in the nine sources, however eighteen occur in one source, fifteen in two, eight in three, five in four, thirteen in five, and three in six. Not including \"yes\" and \"he did not answer\", only thirty-five answers remain, of which ten occur in one source, eight in two, six in three, three in four, two in five, five in six. Only one answer is found in all nine eyewitness sources, where the Báb states that \"I am that person you have been awaiting for one thousand years.\"\n\nThe trial did not bring a decisive result. Some clergy called for capital punishment, but the government pressured them to issue a lenient judgement because the Báb was popular. The government asked medical experts to declare the Báb insane in order to prevent his execution. To appease the religious clergy, the government may have spread rumours that the Báb recanted.\n\nThe Shaykh al-Islām, a champion of the anti-Bábist campaign, not at the Báb's trial, issued a conditional death sentence if the Báb was found to be sane. A fatwa was issued establishing the Báb's apostasy and stated \"The repentance of an incorrigible apostate is not accepted, and the only thing which has caused the postponement of thy execution is a doubt as to thy sanity of mind.\"\n\nThe crown prince's physician, William Cormick, examined the Báb and complied with the government's request to find grounds for clemency. The physician's opinion saved the Báb from execution for a time, but the clergy insisted that he face corporal punishment instead, so the Báb suffered foot whipping - twenty lashes to the bottoms of his feet.\n\nThe unsigned and undated official government report states that because of his harsh beating, the Báb orally and in writing recanted, apologized, and stated that he would not continue to advance claims of divinity. The document of his alleged recantation was written shortly after his trial in Tabriz.\nSome authors theorise that the assertions were made to embarrass the Báb and undermine his credibility with the public and that the language of this document is very different from the Báb's usual style, and so prepared by the authorities.\n\nOrientalist Edward Granville Browne received copies of the trial documents from , the first French Baha'i. A facsimile of the recantation is published in Browne's \"Materials for the Study of the Babi Religion\", where he states, \"[The document], unsigned and undated, was claimed to be in the Báb's handwriting and consists of a complete recantation and renunciation of any superhuman claim which he may have advanced or have appeared to advance. There is nothing to show to whom it is addressed, or whether it is the recantation referred to in the last paragraph of the [government report] or another. The handwriting, though graceful, is not easily legible...\" This is a translation of the relevant section of the document:\nAfter the trial, the Báb was ordered back to the fortress of Chehríq.\n\nIn mid-1850 a new prime-minister, Amir Kabir, ordered the execution of the Báb, probably because various Bábí insurrections' defeats and the movement's popularity appeared waning. The Báb was brought back to Tabriz from Chehriq for an execution by firing squad. The night before his execution, while being conducted to his cell, a young Bábí, Muhammad-Ali \"Anis\" from Zonuz, threw himself at the feet of the Báb and begged martyrdom with him, then was immediately arrested and placed in the same cell as the Báb.\n\nOn the morning of July 9, 1850 (28 Sha'ban 1266 AH), taken to the courtyard of the barracks where held, there appeared thousands of people gathered to watch his execution. The Báb and Anís were suspended on a wall and a large firing squad of Christian soldiers prepared to shoot. Numerous eye-witness reports, including those of Western diplomats, recount the result. The order was given to fire and the barracks square filled with musket smoke. When it cleared, the Báb was no longer in the courtyard and his companion stood there unharmed; the bullets apparently had not harmed either man, but had cut the rope suspending them from the wall. There was a great commotion, many in the crowd believing the Báb had ascended to heaven or simply disappeared. But the soldiers subsequently found the Báb in another part of the barracks, completely unharmed, giving his final instructions to his secretary. He and Anis were tied up for execution a second time, and a second firing squad of Muslim soldiers ranged in front of them. A second order to fire was given. This time the Báb and his companion were killed. In Bábí and Bahá'í tradition, the failure of the first firing to kill the Báb is believed a miracle. Their remains were dumped outside the gates of the town to be eaten by animals.\n\nHowever, their remains were clandestinely rescued by a handful of Bábis and then hidden. Over time the remains secretly transported according to the instructions of Bahá'u'lláh and then `Abdu'l-Bahá by way of Isfahan, Kirmanshah, Baghdad, Damascus, Beirut, and then by sea to Acre on the plain below Mount Carmel in 1899. On March 21, 1909, the remains were interred in a special tomb, the Shrine of the Báb, erected for this purpose by `Abdu'l-Bahá, on Mount Carmel in present-day Haifa, Israel. In its vicinity, the Bahá'í World Centre welcomes visitors to tour the gardens.\n\nIn most of his prominent writings, the Báb alluded to a Promised One, most commonly referred to as \"man yazhiruhu'lláh\", \"Him Whom God shall make manifest\", and that he himself was \"but a ring upon the hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest.\" Within 20 years of the Báb's death, over 25 people claimed to be the Promised One, most significantly Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nBefore the Báb's death, he sent a letter to Mírzá Yahyá, Subh-i-Azal, that some consider a will and testament. This recognized the appointing of Subh-i-Azal as the leader of the Bábí community after the death of the Báb, and ordered to obey the Promised One when he appears. At the time Subh-i-Azal, still a teenager, had never demonstrated leadership in the Bábí movement, and was still living in the house of his older brother, Bahá'u'lláh. All of this lends credence to the Bahá'í claim that the Báb appointed Subh-i-Azal the head of the Bábí Faith so as to divert attention away from Bahá'u'lláh, while allowing Bábís to visit Bahá'u'lláh and consult with him freely, and allowing Bahá'u'lláh to write to Bábís easily and freely. Shia Islam includes a vast history of hidden leaders, and their deputies wielding the true power. The first examples of this are the four bábs as is Ali-Muhammad's choice of the title \"the Báb\".\n\nIn 1852 Bahá'u'lláh, while a prisoner in Tehran, was visited by a \"Maid of Heaven\", that symbolically marked the beginning of his mission as a Messenger of God. Eleven years later in Baghdad, he made his first public declaration and eventually was recognized by the vast majority of Bábís as \"He Whom God shall make manifest\". His followers began calling themselves Bahá'ís.\n\nSubh-i-Azal continued to live with or close to Bahá'u'lláh throughout the latter's exiles from Iran to Baghdad and then to Istanbul and Edirne, though Bahá'u'lláh's claim as a Manifestation of God in 1863 theoretically rendered moot Subh-i-Azal's authority as the head of the Bábí community. In September 1867, in Edirne, the rival claims to authority came to a head. Subh-i-Azal challenged Bahá'u'lláh to a test of the divine will in a local mosque in Edirne such that \"God would strike down the impostor\". Bahá'u'lláh agreed and went to the Yavuz Selim Mosque at the appointed time, but Subh-i-Azal failed to show up.\n\nSubh-i-Azal's followers became known as Azalis or Azali Bábís. For the Bábís who did not recognize Bahá'u'lláh, Subh-i-Azal remained their leader until his death in 1912, and Azali successorship remains disputed. Bahá'í sources report that 11 of the 18 \"witnesses\" appointed by Subh-i-Azal to oversee the Bábí community became Bahá'ís, as his son did. The man allegedly appointed by Subh-i-Azal to succeed him, Hadíy-i-Dawlat-Abádí, later publicly recanted his faith in the Báb and Subh-i-Azal.\n\nBahá'u'llah emerged more successful and nearly all of the Báb's followers abandoned Subh-i-Azal and became Bahá'ís. Today Bahá'ís have several million followers, while estimates of the number of Azalís are generally around one thousand in Iran.\n\nThe Báb's teachings have three broad stages, each with a dominant thematic focus. His earliest teachings are primarily defined by his interpretation of the Quran and hadith. This interpretive mode continues throughout all three stages of his teachings, but a shift takes place where his emphasis moves to philosophical elucidation, and finally to legislative pronouncements. In the second philosophical stage, the Báb gives an explanation of the metaphysics of being and creation, and in the third legislative stage his mystical and historical principles unite. An analysis of the Báb's writings throughout these stages show his teachings were animated by a common principle with multiple dimensions and forms.\n\nMost of the writings of the Báb have been lost. The Báb himself stated they exceeded five hundred thousand verses in length; the Qur'an, in contrast, is 6300 verses in length. If one assumes 25 verses per page, that would equal 20,000 pages of text. Nabíl-i-Zarandí, in \"The Dawn-breakers\", mentions nine complete commentaries on the Qur'an, revealed during the Báb's imprisonment at Maku, which have been lost without a trace. Establishing the true text of the works that are still extant, as already noted, is not always easy, and some texts will require considerable work. Others, however, are in good shape; several of the Báb's major works are available in the handwriting of his trusted secretaries.\n\nMost works were revealed in response to specific questions by Bábís. This is not unusual; the genre of the letter has been a venerable medium for composing authoritative texts as far back as Paul the Apostle. Three quarters of the chapters of the New Testament are letters, were composed to imitate letters, or contain letters within them. Sometimes the Báb revealed works very rapidly by chanting them in the presence of a secretary and eyewitnesses.\n\nThe Archives Department at the Bahá'í World Centre currently holds about 190 Tablets of the Báb. Excerpts from several principal works have been published in the only English-language compilation of the Báb's writings: \"Selections from the Writings of the Báb\". Denis MacEoin, in his \"Sources for Early Bābī Doctrine and History\", gives a description of many works; much of the following summary is derived from that source. In addition to major works, the Báb revealed numerous letters to his wife and followers, many prayers for various purposes, numerous commentaries on verses or chapters of the Qur'an, and many \"khutbihs\" or sermons (most of which were never delivered). Many of these have been lost; others have survived in compilations.\n\nThe Báb has been criticized for his inconsistent use of correct and incorrect Arabic grammar in his religious works, though in his Arabic letters made very few mistakes. A reason for this inconsistency could be to distinguish those who could not see past the outer form of the words from those that could understand the deeper meaning of his message.\n\nTodd Lawson noted this in his doctoral dissertation about the Báb's \"Tafsir on Surah al-Baqara\". This tafsir was started by the Báb in November or December 1843, some six months before declaring his mission. The first half was completed by February or March 1844; the second half was revealed after the Báb's declaration. It is the only work of the Báb's revealed before his declaration that has survived intact. It also sheds light on the Báb's attitude toward Twelver beliefs. His wife also refers to important episodes before his declaration.\n\n\nDuring his -month pilgrimage to Mecca, the Báb composed many works:\n\n\nThe Báb was in Bushehr March through June 1845, then in Shiraz.\n\n\n\nThe Báb left Isfahan in March 1847, sojourned outside Tehran several months, then was sent to a fortress at Maku, Iran, close to the Turkish border. It witnessed the composition of some of the Báb's most important works.\n\n\nThe Báb spent two years in Chehriq, except for his brief visit to Tabriz for his trial. The works he produced there were more esoteric or mystical and less thematically organized. Two major books were produced, in addition to many minor works:\n\n\nIn the Bahá'í calendar the events of the birth, declaration and death of the Báb are commemorated by Bahá'í communities on a yearly basis. At the centennial of the declaration of the Báb to Mulla Husayn in May, 1944, the Bahá'ís had a viewing of the portrait of the Báb during the celebrations held at the Bahá'í House of Worship (Wilmette, Illinois). Speaking at the event were Dorothy Beecher Baker, Horace Holley, and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3983634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983634", "title": "Community Boards", "text": "Community Boards\n\nCommunity Boards is a community based mediation program, established in 1976, in San Francisco, California, United States by Raymond Shonholtz. The program utilizes volunteers from the neighbourhoods of the city, who work with people involved in disagreements toward the end of resolving the dispute, repairing the relationship, and healing or preventing rifts in the community.\n\nThe Community Boards program promotes a model of mediation that emphasizes the collective involvement of members of the community, recruiting mediators who are representative of their neighbourhoods—with direct awareness of local needs and concerns. The program utilizes a form of case management in which \"case developers\" make in–person contact with potential parties in order to encourage participation. Once the parties involved have consented to participate, they are assisted by a panel (usually 3) of mediators.\n\nThe program is among the most distant approach to formal legal process among the various models of community mediation. The most dramatic example of this viewpoint is the contention by the program's mediators that any agreement reached should be enforceable only by the good will and voluntary compliance of the parties. Proponents have asserted that the program's impact is much broader than the resolution of individual disputes—reaching into issues of tolerance, acceptance and social justice.\n\nCommunity Boards has also been active in the promotion of K-12 school-based peer mediation programs since 1982.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1540801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540801", "title": "Comparison of DOS operating systems", "text": "Comparison of DOS operating systems\n\nThis article details various versions of DOS-compatible operating systems.\n\nOriginally MS-DOS was designed to be an operating system that could run on \"any\" computer with a 8086-family microprocessor. It competed with other operating systems written for such computers, such as CP/M-86 and UCSD Pascal. Each computer would have its own distinct hardware and its own version of MS-DOS, a situation similar to the one that existed for CP/M, with MS-DOS emulating the same solution as CP/M to adapt for different hardware platforms. So there were many different original equipment manufacturer (OEM) versions of \"MS-DOS\" for different hardware. But the greater speed attainable by direct control of hardware was of particular importance, especially when running computer games. So very soon an IBM-compatible architecture became the goal, and before long all 8086-family computers closely emulated IBM hardware, and only a single version of MS-DOS for a fixed hardware platform was all that was needed for the market. This specific version of MS-DOS is the version that is discussed here, as all other versions of MS-DOS died out with their respective systems. One version of such a \"generic MS-DOS\" (Z-DOS) is mentioned here, but there were dozens more. All these were for personal computers that used an 8086-family microprocessor, but which were not fully IBM PC compatible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23503284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23503284", "title": "Comparison of OpenXPS and PDF", "text": "Comparison of OpenXPS and PDF\n\nThis is a comparison of the OpenXPS document file format with the PDF file format. Both file format standards are essentially containers for representing digital content in a paper-like fashion.\n\nNote that OpenXPS is incompatible with .xps files generated by Windows 7 and Vista. Windows versions from Windows 8 onward generate .oxps, OpenXPS compliant files (see Open XML Paper Specification).\n\nThe differences between Open XML Paper Specification (OpenXPS) and the Portable Document Format (PDF) can be traced to their heritage and the manner of their development, as they have different design goals and different groups providing input.\n\nThe different goals in the development of OpenXPS and PDF resulted in different principles and design tradeoffs between the file formats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18702884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18702884", "title": "Comparison of photo stitching software", "text": "Comparison of photo stitching software\n\nPhoto stitching software produce panoramic pictures and VR photographs. The other method involves using panoramic cameras or panoramic mirror lenses (i.e. \"one-shot lenses\").\n\n(<nowiki>*</nowiki>) Export to HTML 5 usually means WebGL based viewer application.\n"}
{"id": "6782479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782479", "title": "Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium", "text": "Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium\n\nThe Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium is an important multilingual collection of Eastern Christian texts with over 600 volumes published since its foundation in 1903 by Louvain Catholic University in Belgium and The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.. The present Secretary General is Andrea Schmidt of Louvain University (French Section in Louvain-la-Neuve).\n\n240 volumes are devoted to Syriac writers. There are also sections for works in Arabic, Coptic, Ethiopic, Armenian and Georgian. The total number of publications also includes just over a hundred monographs.\n\nThe series is characterized by publications presenting a critical edition of the original texts in one volume and a translation in a second volume (there are some exceptions though).\n\nThe series was originally printed by different printing offices, each specialized in representing ancient characters in print. Today, only one of these specialized printers is responsible for the production and publication of the volumes. Peeters (formerly known as 'Orientaliste'), who established also an international academic publishing house in the 20th century, is responsible for the distribution of the books. All volumes of the series are still in print.\n\n"}
{"id": "26732944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26732944", "title": "CycleStreets", "text": "CycleStreets\n\nCycleStreets is not-for-profit United Kingdom organisation that provides a free-to-use national cycle journey planner for the United Kingdom. The planner uses OpenStreetMap data for routing, Shuttle Radar Topography Mission for height data and official postcode data. It was launched in March 2009 and by January 2010 had planned 100,000 journeys. As of August 2015, the site has planned over 45 million itineraries. It was 'Highly Commended' at the 2009 ACT Travelwise awards. It provides worldwide routing using OpenStreetMap data.\n\nCycleStreets is a development of the Cambridge Cycle Campaign Journey Planner, which was launched in 2006. CycleStreets itself was launched on 20 March 2009; which was by co-incidence the same day that it was announced that the Transport Direct Portal was about to introduce cycle routing for a small number of trial locations including Manchester. In June 2009, a feature to plan circular routes was added and the project was featured in \"The Guardian\" newspaper. In August 2009 functionality was added to export routes for use in GPS device and the ability to route via ferry services and then in October 2009 the project released elevation profiles and 'Balanced routes'.\n\nIn December 2009, CycleStreets was 'Highly Commended' in the ACT Travelwise annual awards.\n\nIn February 2010, the ability to share short video clips was added and then in March 2010 CycleStreets added Google Streetview images to the route description pages and a post code look-up function. They reported their 100,000th journey plan itinerary the same month.\n\nIn 2007, during the development of CycleStreets, Simon Nuttall and Martin Lucas-Smith advised Transport Direct on the CycleNetXChange data exchange standard for cycle route data which was later used in the Transport Direct Portal cycle journey planner.\n\nIn July 2009, CycleStreets was presented at the OpenStreetMap annual 'State of the Map' Conference In September 2009, Martin Lucas Smith of CycleStreets presented the project at the School of Cartography Summer School.\n\nThe project held its first 'Developer Day' in March 2010, where technical issues relating to the project were discussed and there was a session on cycle routing at WhereCampEU.\n\nCycleStreets is a not-for-profit project and has been largely self-funded. It has received grants from the following organisations (in chronological order):\n\n\nIt has also applied for funding through the following channels:\n\n\nThe project has also benefited from a number of donations in kind not least of which has been the voluntarily donated geographic information in OpenStreetMap.\n\n"}
{"id": "220595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220595", "title": "Dionysius Lardner", "text": "Dionysius Lardner\n\nProfessor Dionysius Lardner FRS FRSE (3 April 179329 April 1859) was an Irish scientific writer who popularised science and technology, and edited the 133-volume \"Cabinet Cyclopædia\".\n\nHe was born in Dublin on 3 April 1793 the son of William Lardner, a solicitor in Dublin, who wished his son to follow the same calling. After some years of uncongenial desk work, Lardner entered Trinity College, Dublin, in 1812, and obtained a B.A. in 1817 and an M.A. in 1819, winning many prizes. He married Cecilia Flood on 19 December 1815, but they separated in 1820 and were divorced in 1835. About the time of the separation, he began a relationship with a married woman, Anne Maria Darley Boursiquot, the wife of a Dublin wine merchant. It is believed that he fathered her son, Dion Boucicault, the actor and dramatist. Lardner provided him with financial support until 1840. Whilst in Dublin, Lardner began to write and lecture on scientific and mathematical matters, and to contribute articles for publication by the Irish Academy.\n\nIn 1828 Lardner was elected professor of natural philosophy and astronomy at University College, London, a position he held until he resigned his professorship in 1831.\n\nLardner showed himself to be a successful populariser of science, giving talks on contemporary topics such as Babbage's Difference Engine (1834). He was the author of numerous mathematical and physical treatises on such subjects as algebraic geometry (1823), the differential and integral calculus (1825), and the steam engine (1828). He also wrote hand-books on various departments of natural philosophy (1854–1856); but it is as the editor of Lardner's \"Cabinet Cyclopædia\" (1830–1844) that he is best remembered.\n\nThe \"Cabinet Cyclopædia\" eventually comprised 133 volumes, and many of the ablest savants of the day contributed to it. Sir Walter Scott contributed a history of Scotland and Thomas Moore contributed a history of Ireland. Connop Thirlwall provided a history of Ancient Greece, whilst Robert Southey provided a section on naval history. Many eminent scientists contributed as well. Lardner himself was the author of the treatises on arithmetic, geometry, heat, hydrostatics and pneumatics, mechanics (in conjunction with Henry Kater) and electricity (in conjunction with C.V. Walker).\n\nThe \"Cabinet Library\" (12 vols., 1830–1832) and the \"Museum of Science and Art\" (12 vols., 1854–1856) were his other chief undertakings. A few original papers appear in the Royal Irish Academy's \"Transactions\" (1824), in the Royal Society's \"Proceedings\" (1831–1836) and in the Astronomical Society's \"Monthly Notices\" (1852–1853); and two \"Reports\" to the British Association on railway constants (1838, 1841) are from his pen.\n\nIn 1840 Lardner's career received a major setback as a result of his involvement with Mary Spicer Heaviside, the wife of Captain Richard Heaviside, of the Dragoon Guards. He had previously been married to Cecilia Flood in 1815, but had separated in 1820. Lardner ran off to Paris with Mrs Heaviside, pursued by her husband. When he caught up with them, Heaviside subjected Lardner to a flogging; he was unable to persuade his wife to return with him. Later that year he successfully sued Lardner for \"criminal conversation\" (adultery) and received a judgment of £8,000. The Heavisides were divorced in 1845, and in 1846 Lardner was able to marry Mary Heaviside. The scandal caused by his affair with a married woman effectively ended his career in England, so Lardner and his wife remained in Paris until shortly before his death in 1859. He was able to maintain his career by lecturing in the United States between 1841 and 1844, which proved financially rewarding, realising £40,000.\n\nHe died in Naples, Italy, and is buried in the Cimitero degli Inglesi there.\n\nLardner became involved in a number of ill-advised public disagreements with Isambard Kingdom Brunel regarding technical matters, in which he came off the worse.\n\nDuring the 1833 Parliamentary hearings discussing the proposal of the Great Western Railway, Lardner criticised Brunel's design of the Box Tunnel. The tunnel had a 1-in-100 gradient from the east end to the west end. Lardner asserted that if a train's brakes were to fail in the tunnel, it would accelerate to over , at which speed the train would break up and kill the passengers. Brunel pointed out that Lardner's calculations totally disregarded air-resistance and friction, a basic error.\n\nIn 1836, when Brunel was proposing to build \"SS Great Western\" for the transatlantic passage to New York, at a meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Lardner stated that: As the project of making the voyage directly from New York to Liverpool, it was perfectly chimerical, and they might as well talk of making the voyage from New York to the moon... is the longest run that a steamer could encounter – at the end of that distance she would require a relay of coals. \nAgain, Brunel was able to show that Lardner's calculations were too simplistic. The principle that Brunel understood, which Lardner did not, was that the carrying capacity of a ship increases as the cube of its dimensions, whilst the water-resistance only increases as the square of its dimensions. This meant that large ships were more fuel efficient, and could carry sufficient coal for the long voyage across the Atlantic. Brunel was proved right when the \"Great Western\" steamed into New York harbour with of coal to spare.\n\nIn 1838 while Brunel was building the broad-gauge Great Western Railway, Lardner carried out some experiments with the company's flagship locomotive, \"North Star\". He asserted that, whilst the engine was capable of hauling at , it was only capable of hauling at . He also recorded excessive fuel consumption at higher speeds. Lardner attributed this to the greater wind resistance of broad-gauge engines. Brunel and his assistant Daniel Gooch carried out their own experiments on the same locomotive and found that the only problem was that the blast pipe was too small. This was easily rectified and the North Star's performance immediately improved. At the next meeting of the company's directors, Brunel triumphantly dismissed Lardner's evidence.\n\nLardner is mentioned in Karl Marx's \"Das Kapital\" and was well respected as an economist. He mixed with the rich and famous. He was involved in the founding of the University of London and the first person to hold the post of Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy there. He was influential in publicising Charles Babbage's Difference Engine.\n\nWhilst lecturing in America Lardner was paid by Norris Brothers, the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near Philadelphia, where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train. Lardner pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that Norris brothers were not personally liable for the accident. A committee of the Franklin Institute pointed out that there was no lightning present at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron. The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by Lardner that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53272696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53272696", "title": "Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia", "text": "Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia\n\nThe Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia was a medical guide consisting of recipes and methods for making medicine. It was first published by the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh in 1699 as the Pharmacopoea Collegii Regii Medicorum Edimburgensium. The Edinburgh Pharmacopeia merged with the London and Dublin Pharmacopoeia's in 1864 creating the British Pharmacopoeia.\n\nThe precedence for creating a pharmacopoeia went back to 1618 when the College of Physicians of London created their own London Pharmacopoeia to regulate the manufacture of medicine. The first edition of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia was created in a period of tension between physicians and surgeons and the College of Physicians in Edinburgh sought to regulate the practice of medicine by providing standardized recipes. The first item in the College of Physician's minutes in 1682 note the need for a committee for creating a pharmacopoeia.\n\nThe committee for the creation of the pharmacopoeia struggled for the next seventeen years, finally agreeing upon a text and publishing the first edition of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia in 1699. The first edition was rife with dispute amongst the College of Physicians. Robert Sibbald was a main figure in its eventual publication, however the College divided into two camps; the 'new science' and Sibbald's dated faction. Members of the College not only disagreed on content of the pharmacopoeia, but style and structure as well.\n\nUnlike the London Pharmacopoeia, the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia went through many editions and revisions. In the 142 years from initial publication to the merging into the British Pharmacopoeia, the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia had twelve acknowledged editions, the last two in English. Opposition to revision argued that it made the pharmacopoeia appear unstable but proponents argued it kept the pharmacopoeia relevant with scientific and medical developments. The last two editions were published in English under the title \"The Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh\". From 1864, the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia combined with the London and Dublin editions to create the British Pharmacopoeia, which is still in circulation today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6773367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6773367", "title": "Encyclopedia of Appalachia", "text": "Encyclopedia of Appalachia\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Appalachia is the first encyclopedia dedicated to the region, people, culture, history, and geography of Appalachia. Appalachia is a region of the United States named for the significant mountain system which stretches through fourteen states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia. The encyclopedia is 1,864 pages long and contains over 2,000 entries. Produced by the Center for Appalachian Studies and Services at East Tennessee State University, Rudy Abramson and Dr. Jean Haskell, are the two main editors of the encyclopedia. It was published in March 2006 by the University of Tennessee Press.\n\nAn online edition was initiated in 2011. As of August 2011, only the Music section is online. The online edition includes videos in addition to text and images. Access to the online edition is free.\n\nThe print version of the encyclopedia has 1864 pages. It is organized into the following five main sections with respective subsections:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3227590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3227590", "title": "Feuilleton", "text": "Feuilleton\n\nA feuilleton (; a diminutive of , the leaf of a book) was originally a kind of supplement attached to the political portion of French newspapers, consisting chiefly of non-political news and gossip, literature and art criticism, a chronicle of the latest fashions, and epigrams, charades and other literary trifles. The term \"feuilleton\" was invented by the editors of the French \"Journal des débats\"; Julien Louis Geoffroy and Bertin the Elder, in 1800. The feuilleton has been described as a \"talk of the town\",\nand a contemporary English-language example of the form is the \"Talk of the Town\" section of \"The New Yorker.\"\n\nIn English newspapers, the term instead came to refer to an installment of a serial story printed in one part of a newspaper. The genre of the feuilleton in its French sense was eventually included in English newspapers, but was not referred to as a feuilleton.\n\nIn contemporary French, \"feuilleton\" has taken on the meaning \"soap opera\".\n\nGerman and Polish newspapers still use the term for their literary and arts sections.\n\nA supplement called \"Feuilleton\" appeared for the first time of 28 January 1800 in the \"Journal des Debats\" magazine. The word \"feuilleton\" meant \"a leaf\", or, in this sense, \"a scrap of paper\". Soon the supplement became the regular column devoted to entertainment and cultural issues. It is important to note that the English term \"column\" means both a part of a paper and the kind of press genre.\n\nThe original \"feuilletons\" were not usually printed on a separate sheet, but merely separated from the political part of the newspaper by a line, and printed in smaller type. The slot was therefore nicknamed, throughout the 19th century in France, as the \"ground floor\".\n\nIn 1836 the Paris newspaper \"La Presse\" first began to circulate a separate sheet from the paper entitled \"Feuilleton\" in which cultural items were included. This French development of the idea was then subsequently taken up by the Director of \"Die Presse\" of Vienna and the \"Feuilleton\" soon became commonly used in several other newspapers in Vienna.\n\nAt the turn of 19th and 20th century the traditional connection between the name \"feuilleton\" and the specific place in the magazine became weaker. From that point the term \"feuilleton\" has been associated only with the textual properties of the publication.\n\nThe changes in the functioning of the term \"feuilleton\" did not have much influence on the traditional features of the genre. Newspapers, for their part, have preserved its cyclical nature and the mark of it is the publication of a series of articles always in the same part of a magazine with additional use of different ways of signaling its cyclical nature (\"e.g.\", permanent vignettes, titles of columns, established forms of typesetting, etc.).\n\nProminent exterior features are an additional way for readers to identify the \"feuilleton\" as a particular genre, even when its structural features seem to be insufficient to defining it as such.\n\nThe radio equivalent of a \"feuilleton\" is a fixed position of a slot in the time layout of the transmitted programme and the use of different kinds of conventionalized signals, like the author’s own voice, the same title of a slot, etc.\n\nThe French form remains quite popular in Continental Europe, as witness the works of many popular Czech authors, such as Jan Neruda, Karel Čapek and Ludvík Vaculík.\n\nBesides France, Russia in particular cultivated the \"feuilleton\" genre since the 19th century, and the word \"фельетон\" acquired the general meaning of satirical piece in the Russian language.\n\nIn Polish press terminology the term \"feuilleton\" (Polish: \"felieton\") meant a regular, permanent column in a magazine where episodes of novels, serial press publications (e.g., \"Chronicles\" by Boleslaw Prus in \"Kurier Warszawski\") and other items on entertainment and cultural issues were published.\n\nSuch a definition and use of a column still function in German and French press terminology.\n\nIn Yiddish a \"feuilleton\" was generally humorous and informal in tone. Two famous writers of Yiddish feuilletons were Sholem Aleichem and the Tunkeler, Yosef Tunkel.\n\nThe \"feuilleton\" is a writing genre that allows for much journalistic freedom as far as its content, composition and style are concerned; the text is hybrid which means that it makes use of different genre structures, both journalistic and literary. The characteristic of a column is also the lack of the group of fixed features in strong structural relation.\n\nThematic domain of a \"feuilleton\" column tends to be always up-to-date, focusing specifically on cultural, social and moral issues. An accented and active role by the columnist as the subject of the narration is also very important characteristic of this genre. The tone of its writing is usually reflexive, humorous, ironic and above all very subjective in drawing conclusions, assessments and comments on a particular subject.\n\nUnlike other common journalistic genres, the \"feuilleton\" style is very close to literary. Its characteristic feature is lightness and wit evidenced by wordplay, parody, paradox and humorous hyperboles. The vocabulary is usually not neutral, and strongly emotionally loaded words and phrases prevail.\n\nA contemporary example of the form can be found at the online literary magazine PANK, in their column \"A Forsley Feuilleton\".\n\nIn the novel \"The Glass Bead Game\" (1943), by Nobel Prize-winning novelist Hermann Hesse, the current era is characterised and described as \"The Age of the Feuilleton\". In Hesse's novel, this so-called age of the feuilleton, viewed retrospectively from a future scholarly society called Castalia, is generally but not simply portrayed as having an overweening, trivializing or obfuscating character such as is associated with the arbitrary and primitive nature of social production prior to the historical denouement that resulted in the creation of Castalia. The bourgeois feuilleton of the Belle Époque, especially in France during the period of the Dreyfus affair, as well as those of Fascist Germany, served to effect \"Kulturpolitik\"; they established norms and tastes, contributed to the formation of social identity, and often expressed an underlying antisemitism. \"Glasperlenspiel\" was written during World War II, and Hesse would have been reacting in part to these real historical developments.\nIn Maxim Gorky's novel \"Foma Gordeev\" the character Ezhóff is described as a feuilleton writer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27330189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27330189", "title": "Greenfield Village station", "text": "Greenfield Village station\n\nGreenfield Village was an Amtrak station in Dearborn, Michigan served by the \"Wolverine\". It closed to regular seasonal service in 2006 and to all service in 2014. The station had a single side platform serving one of the two tracks of the Michigan Line. A pedestrian crossing from the platform led to the The Henry Ford at Smiths Creek Depot on the parallel Weiser Railroad.\n\nPrior to 2006, the station was a regular, but seasonal stop (summer only). After 2006, the station was only used for reserved tour groups of 20 or more people, similar to Colonel Allensworth State Historic Park station in California.\n\nAmtrak's main station in Dearborn, opened in 1978, was located well east of the downtown area, thus requiring a separate stop to serve The Henry Ford. Dearborn station and Greenfield Village station were replaced by the new John D. Dingell Transit Center, located to the west of Greenfield Village station at a different entrance to The Henry Ford. The new station opened on December 10, 2014, and Greenfield Village station was closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "38153037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38153037", "title": "Guajona", "text": "Guajona\n\nThe Guajona (; ) or Lumia is a blood-sucking creature of Cantabrian legends, resembling a disfigured human female, resembling to an extent the witches and hags of medieval European folklore, with features specific to her feeding habits. \nShe is covered from head to toe in an old thin black cloak, her hands and feet are gnarled bird legs, her face is yellow with consumed, rough and hairy warts, her eyes are tiny and bright as stars, aquiline nose and mouth provided with a single black razor sharp tooth that is so long it reach down to her under chin and used to suck blood. Only comes out at night and hides in the shadows but it is unknown where she sleeps during the day although it is suspected to be hiding underground. Guajona come in homes without getting noticed and walks silently toward healthy young children to suck their blood in their sleep by sticking her tooth into their veins. She does not kill them, instead leaves them almost bloodless so when they wake up in the morning they will be tired, pale and discolored. Guajona also attacks adults. This is one of the few myths or legends about vampires that exist in Spain, next to the Conde Estruch.\n\nGuajona is an augmentative of Guaja, present also in the neighbour Asturian mythology as Guaxa. The origin of Guaja or Guaxa could be in classical Arabic وحش \"wahsh\", meaning \"beast\".\n\nHas indicated in the legend Manuel Llano bible (Obras Completas, 1968, vol. II, p. 477). It is also quoted by Miguel de Unamuno.\n\n"}
{"id": "20080713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080713", "title": "Guide Mayer", "text": "Guide Mayer\n\nMayer International Auction Records aka Guide Mayer is listing international art auctions results as a dictionary for both fine art amateurs and collectors as well as art market professionals like galleries and auctioneers. 800 auction houses from 40 countries contributed information to the publication. The dictionary was first published in 1962 by Enrique Mayer up until 1982 when Enrique Mayer sold the publication to the Migros Group in Switzerland. In 1986 Migros sold the Mayer dictionary to Acatos Editions in Lausanne, which published the book until 2001. In 1993 Editions Acatos sold an electronic publishing licence to Digital Media Resources Ltd. from London for the duration of 10 years. The Mayer International Auction Records database was first published on CD-ROM by Digital Media Resources in 1994 and the database was first published online on the internet in 1996 on artlibrary.com. In 1997 David Dehaeck purchased the name and the totality of the publishing rights from Silvio Acatos, publisher and principal owner of Edition Acatos. In 2000 David Dehaeck sold the title and the publishing rights to iCollector.com from London that soon after became part of LiveAuction Group from Canada.\n\nListing by artists as a dictionary, the book was split into categories such as\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3525423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3525423", "title": "Henry Bradshaw Society", "text": "Henry Bradshaw Society\n\nThe Henry Bradshaw Society is a British-based text publication society founded in 1890 for the scholarly editing and publication of rare liturgical texts.\n\nAn initial meeting to plan the Henry Bradshaw Society took place in London on 3 July 1890, after which provisional subscriptions were solicited. The general meeting to inaugurate the Society took place on 25 November 1890 in the Jerusalem Chamber at Westminster Abbey. A committee was finalised and a programme of publications worked out.\n\nOne of the models for the society was the Durham-based Surtees Society, formed in 1834, which in turn received assistance from officers of the Bannatyne Club. The foundation of the new society was also linked, more by overlapping interests than organizational models, to the body then known as the St Paul's Ecclesiological Society. John Wickham Legg, who had played a significant role in the re-establishment of that society in 1879 after a decade or so of limbo, also became an important founding member of the Henry Bradshaw Society.\n\nThe Society was named after Henry Bradshaw (1831–1886), Librarian of the Cambridge University Library, who had been interested in early printing and in bibliographic description. This latter passion led to his becoming familiar with many European libraries, where he also became aware of holdings of early English liturgical manuscripts.\n\nThe promised subscribers including many Anglican bishops and other dignitaries, but also Léopold Delisle of the Bibliothèque nationale, Paris, Antonio Maria Ceriani of the Ambrosian Library, Milan and others Catholics such as W.H. James Weale, Edmund Bishop, Dom Aidan Gasquet, the abbé Louis Duchesne, and Dom Hildebrand de Hemptinne, abbot of Maredsous. The first volumes were to be printed in 500 copies and at the next meeting the Council fixed the individual subscription rate as 12 guineas (£12 12s).\n\nBy the end of the 19th century some 19 volumes had been issued, three of which contained an edition of the \"Westminster Missal\", given to the abbey by Abbot Nicholas Lytlington, abbot 1362-1386, and builder of the Jerusalem Chamber, where the Society was publicly launched.\n\nOther early editions were of the coronation rites of King Charles I (1892), the \"Martiloge in Englysshe\" (1893), the \"Antiphonary of Bangor\" (1893–6; from the Ambrosian Library), the \"Tracts of Clement Maydeston\" (1894), the \"Winchester Troper\", the \"Martyrology of Gorman\" (1895; from the Royal Library, Brussels), the \"Missal of Robert of Jumièges\" (1896; from Rouen public library), the \"Irish Liber Hymnorum\" (1898; from Trinity College Library, Dublin), the \"Rosslyn Missal\" (1899; from the Advocates Library, Edinburgh), the \"Coronation Book of Charles V of France\" (1899; British Library, Cotton Tiberius MS B.VIII), the \"Missale Romanum\", printed in Milan in 1474 (1899–1907) and the fifteenth-century \"Processional of the Nuns of Chester\" (1899).\n\nAlthough the Society fell into something of a slump after the Second World War, it was revived with some vigour in the 1980s. The latest volume to be published, in 2013, is numbered 120.\n\nThe Society's principal honorary officers currently include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57512854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57512854", "title": "Henry Wellesley (1794–1866)", "text": "Henry Wellesley (1794–1866)\n\nHenry Wellesley was a British scholar, who held senior positions at Oxford University, and who is remembered for authoring several books.\nHe was the fifth and last child of Richard Wellesley, 1st Marquess Wellesley and Hyacinthe-Gabrielle Roland. His parents married, but after all their children were born, so Wellesley's sons could not inherit his titles.\n\nWellesley was Principal of Oxford University's New Inn Hall, curator of the Bodleian Library, curator of Ashmolean Museum and Taylor Institute.\n\nTwo of the books he is known for are \"Anthologica Polyglotta\" (1849) and \"Stray Notes of Shakespeare\" (1865).\n"}
{"id": "21288194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21288194", "title": "HighBeam Research", "text": "HighBeam Research\n\nHighBeam Research is a paid search engine and full text online archive owned by Gale, a subsidiary of Cengage, for thousands of newspapers, magazines, academic journals, newswires, trade magazines, and encyclopedias in English. It is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe company was established in August 2002 after Patrick Spain, who had just sold Hoover's, which he had co-founded, bought eLibrary and Encyclopedia.com from Tucows. The new company was called Alacritude, LLC (a combination of Alacrity and Attitude). ELibrary had a library of 1,200 newspaper, magazine and radio/TV transcript archives that were generally not freely available.\n\nOriginal investors included Prism Opportunity Fund of Chicago and 1 to 1 Ventures of Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nSpain stated, \"There was a glaring gap between free search like Google and high-end offerings like LexisNexis and Factiva.\"\n\nLater in 2002, it bought Researchville.com. By 2003, it had increased its archive base to articles from 2,600 publishers. In 2004, it was renamed HighBeam Research. In 2005, it increased its publisher base to 3,500 publishers. In 2006, Oxford University Press, Knight Ridder and \"The Washington Post\" archives were added. In 2008, it was purchased by Gale, a subsidiary of Cengage. Highbeam features many articles by the UK based Trinity Mirror Group. \n\nHighbeam Research is a partner in the Womensforum network and a major content provider for the \"WomensForum\" women's issues research website.\n\n"}
{"id": "15422988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15422988", "title": "Holinshed's Chronicles", "text": "Holinshed's Chronicles\n\nHolinshed's Chronicles, also known as Holinshed's Chronicles of England, Scotland, and Ireland, is a collaborative work published in several volumes and two editions, the first in 1577, and the second in 1587. It was a large, comprehensive description of British history. \n\nThe \"Chronicles\" are a source of interest to many because of their extensive links to Shakespeare's plays.\n\nIn 1548, Reginald Wolfe, a London printer, conceived the idea of creating a \"Universal Cosmography of the whole world, and therewith also certain particular histories of every known nation\". He wanted the work to be printed in English and he wanted maps and illustrations in the book as well. Wolfe acquired many of John Leland's works, and with these he constructed chronologies and drew maps that were up-to-date. When Wolfe realised he could not complete this project on his own, he hired Raphael Holinshed and William Harrison to assist him.\nWolfe died with the work still uncompleted in 1573, and the project—changed to a work specifically about the British Isles—was run by a consortium of three members of the London stationers. They retained Holinshed, who employed Harrison, Richard Stanyhurst, Edmund Campion and John Hooker. In 1577, the work was published in two volumes after some censorship by the Privy Council of some of Stanyhurst's contribution on Ireland.\n\nShakespeare is widely believed to have used the revised second edition of the \"Chronicles\" (published in 1587) as the source for most of his history plays, the plot of \"Macbeth\", and for portions of \"King Lear\" and \"Cymbeline\".\n\nSeveral other playwrights, such as Christopher Marlowe, used the \"Chronicles\" as a source.\n\nShakespeare used Holinshed's work extensively in \"Macbeth\", but in modified form. An instance is the Three Witches, whom Holinshed describes as \"creatures of the elderwood ... nymphs or fairies\". Nymphs and fairies are generally viewed as beautiful and youthful, but Shakespeare's three witches in \"Macbeth\" are ugly, dark, and bizarre. It is believed that he made the change to heighten the suspense and darkness of the play. However, the \"Chronicles\" lacked any description of Macbeth's character, so Shakespeare improvised on several points. The characters Banquo and Fleance were also taken from Holinshed’s works, but they are now considered to be inventions of the 16th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223168", "title": "ISO 3166-1 alpha-3", "text": "ISO 3166-1 alpha-3\n\nISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes are three-letter country codes defined in ISO 3166-1, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), to represent countries, dependent territories, and special areas of geographical interest. They allow a better visual association between the codes and the country names than the two-letter alpha-2 codes (the third set of codes is numeric and hence offers no visual association). They were first included as part of the ISO 3166 standard in its first edition in 1974.\n\nThe ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes are used most prominently in ISO/IEC 7501-1 for machine-readable passports, as standardized by the International Civil Aviation Organization, with a number of additional codes for special passports; some of these codes are currently reserved and not used at the present stage in ISO 3166-1.\n\nThe United Nations uses a combination of ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and alpha-3 codes, along with codes that pre-date the creation of ISO 3166, for international vehicle registration codes, which are codes used to identify the issuing country of a vehicle registration plate; some of these codes are currently indeterminately reserved in ISO 3166-1.\n\nThe following is a complete list of the current officially assigned ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes, using a title case version of the English short names officially defined by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA):\n\n\nUser-assigned code elements are codes at the disposal of users who need to add further names of countries, territories, or other geographical entities to their in-house application of ISO 3166-1, and the ISO 3166/MA will never use these codes in the updating process of the standard. The following alpha-3 codes can be user-assigned: to , to , to , and to .\n\nThe following codes are used in ISO/IEC 7501-1 for special machine-readable passports:\n\n\nNATO STANAG 1059 INT is built upon ISO alpha-3 codes, but also defines alpha-2 codes incompatible with ISO 3166-1. It introduces several private use codes for fictional countries and organizational entities:\n\n\nNATO also continues to use reserved codes for continents:\n\n\nThere are also three differences:\n\nReserved code elements are codes which have become obsolete, or are required in order to enable a particular user application of the standard but do not qualify for inclusion in ISO 3166-1. To avoid transitional application problems and to aid users who require specific additional code elements for the functioning of their coding systems, the ISO 3166/MA, when justified, reserves these codes which it undertakes not to use for other than specified purposes during a limited or indeterminate period of time. The reserved alpha-3 codes can be divided into the following four categories: exceptional reservations, transitional reservations, indeterminate reservations, and codes currently agreed not to use.\n\nExceptionally reserved code elements are codes reserved at the request of national ISO member bodies, governments and international organizations, which are required in order to support a particular application, as specified by the requesting body and limited to such use; any further use of such code elements is subject to approval by the ISO 3166/MA. The following alpha-3 codes are currently exceptionally reserved:\n\n\nThe following alpha-3 codes were previously exceptionally reserved, but are now officially assigned:\n\n\nTransitional reserved code elements are codes reserved after their deletion from ISO 3166-1. These codes may be used only during a transitional period of at least five years while new code elements that may have replaced them are taken into use. These codes may be reassigned by the ISO 3166/MA after the expiration of the transitional period. The following alpha-3 codes are currently transitionally reserved:\n\n\nIndeterminately reserved code elements are codes used to designate road vehicles under the 1949 and 1968 United Nations Conventions on Road Traffic but differing from those contained in ISO 3166-1. These code elements are expected eventually to be either eliminated or replaced by code elements within ISO 3166-1. In the meantime, the ISO 3166/MA has reserved such code elements for an indeterminate period. Any use beyond the application of the two Conventions is discouraged and will not be approved by the ISO 3166/MA. Moreover, these codes may be reassigned by the ISO 3166/MA at any time. The following alpha-3 codes are currently indeterminately reserved:\n\n\nThe following alpha-3 code was previously indeterminately reserved, but has been reassigned to another country as its official code:\n\n\nIn addition, the ISO 3166/MA will not use the following alpha-3 codes at the present stage, as they are used in ISO/IEC 7501-1 for special machine-readable passports:\n\n\nBesides the codes currently transitionally reserved and two other codes currently exceptionally reserved ( for France, Metropolitan and for USSR), the following alpha-3 codes have also been deleted from ISO 3166-1:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32603170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32603170", "title": "Infinity (de Rivera)", "text": "Infinity (de Rivera)\n\nInfinity is an abstract sculpture designed by Jose de Rivera and created by Roy Gussow. It is located at the south entrance of the National Museum of American History, at Madison Drive and 12th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C.\n\nIt was dedicated on March 28, 1967. It cost $104,520. It slowly rotates on its base.\nRivera created a similar sister sculpture that was installed at Rochester Institute of Technology one year later. \n\n\nhttp://www.aaa.si.edu/collections/interviews/oral-history-interview-jos-de-rivera-12594\n"}
{"id": "3222873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3222873", "title": "John Pintard", "text": "John Pintard\n\nJohn Pintard, Jr. (May 18, 1759 – June 21, 1844) was an American merchant and philanthropist.\n\nHe was a descendant of Antoine Pintard, a Huguenot from La Rochelle, France. He was orphaned when his mother died when he was \"a fortnight old\" and his father died when he was about eighteen months old. His father, John, was a seagoing merchant, and his mother was Mary Cannon. He was raised by his uncle, Lewis Pintard, and attended grammar school under the Reverend Leonard Cutting at Hempstead, New York.\n\nHe attended the College at New Jersey (which later became Princeton University), but left school to join the patriot forces when the British arrived at New York. He went on various expeditions to harass the enemy. He returned to school briefly and received the degree of A.B. in 1776. He served as deputy commissary of prisoners at New York under his uncle Lewis. His duties were to examine and relieve the wants of the prisoners. On November 12, 1784, he married Elizabeth Brashear, daughter of Colonel Abraham Brashear of Paramus, New Jersey.\n\nPintard had inherited a legacy from his maternal grandfather, John Cannon, and this allowed him to go into the China and East India trade. Like his father and his grandfather before him, John served as an alderman to the City of New York. He was rated as one of New York's most successful and prosperous merchants when in 1792 he lost his fortune by engaging with William Duer in Alexander Hamilton’s scheme to fund the national debt. He had personally endorsed notes for over a million dollars and was imprisoned for the debt. John Pintard resided in Newark, New Jersey for eight years and declared bankruptcy in New York. He never recovered his old fortune, but his position and respect in the community enabled him to contribute generously to the projects he sponsored.\n\nIn 1803, John Pintard went to New Orleans to seek his fortune but decided not to settle there. He filed a very favorable report of the French colony to Albert Gallatin, secretary of the treasury, and minister to France James Monroe, a relative by marriage to his wife's aunt. Pintard's report was instrumental in convincing Thomas Jefferson to purchase the Louisiana Territory. He served as first city inspector of New York City for many years after 1804, and was authorized by the corporation of New York to issue fractional notes during the War of 1812.\n\nJohn was secretary of the Mutual Assurance Company from 1809 to 1829. From 1819 to 1829 he served as secretary of the New York Chamber of Commerce. He served as treasurer of the Sailor's Snug Harbor from 1819 to 1823 and was instrumental in the purchase of the property on Staten Island where the home is now located. He also was a founder of the New York Historical Society and the Massachusetts Historical Society. John Pintard served as manager of the state lotteries and was first sagamore of the Tammany Society. He was also elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1814.\n\nIn 1832 he was in New York City during the second cholera pandemic.\n\nOn February 19, 1805 he began the efforts which became the present free school system in New York. He was also active in the movement that resulted in the building and completion of the Erie Canal. John Pintard surveyed the plans for the streets and avenues in upper New York City. A deeply religious man, he was one of the chief supporters of the General Theological Seminary and helped found the American Bible Society, which he always called his \"brat.\" He was vestryman for the Huguenot Church of New York City for thirty-four years and his translation of the \"Book of Common Prayer\" from English to French is still used today. In 1822, the degree of LL.D. was conferred on him by Allegheny College.\n\nPintard was an active Freemason, serving as Master for his Lodge in New York.\n\nPerhaps his greatest contribution to American society, however, was his role in establishing the modern popular conception of Santa Claus based upon the Dutch legend of Sinterklaas. His papers demonstrate that he personally observed the feast of St. Nicholas in an era when such remembrances were still frequently considered \"hagiolatry\" in America and when almanacs of the day omitted reference to such a feast day. His publication in 1810 of a pamphlet proposing St. Nicholas as the patron saint of New York City, and Patron Saint of his newly established New York Historical Society became a theme just following his friend Washington Irving publishing The History of Old New York in 1809, (itself coming from Irving's January 25, 1808 article in Salmagundi magazine). Irving's publication being the first widely published record of Santa Claus as St. Nicholas in New Amsterdam (old New York City), and Pintard lending gravitas to the cause of St. Nicholas for many years to follow.\n\nAccording to Dr. Niels Henry Sonne, former director of the library, John Pintard also was a patron of the library of the General Theological Seminary in New York, and helped establish their first collection of books.\n\nBlind in his later years, he died at the home of his daughter, Louise, in New York on June 21, 1844.\n\nGuide to the John Pintard Papers, 1750-1925\n\n"}
{"id": "28957375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28957375", "title": "John Wilmerding", "text": "John Wilmerding\n\nJohn Currie Wilmerding Jr. (born April 28, 1938), is an American professor of art, collector, and curator, and is best known as a prolific author of books on American art.\n\nWilmerding was born in Boston, Massachusetts on April 28, 1938 and is descended from prominent families in old New York City social circles. His parents were John Currie Wilmerding Sr. (1911–1965), a vice president in the personal trust division of Bankers Trust Company, and Lila Vanderbilt (née Webb) Wilmerding (1913–1961). He had two siblings, James Wilmerding and Lila Wilmerding. After his mother's death, his father remarried to Katharine (née Salvage) Polk (1914–2003), the daughter of Samuel Agar Salvage and widow of Frank Lyon Polk Jr.\n\nHis maternal grandparents were James Watson Webb (1884–1960) and Electra Havemeyer Webb (1888–1960), the co-founders of the Shelburne Museum, which showcases the family's \"collection of collections\" of early American homes and public buildings, including a general store, meeting house, log cabin, and a steamship. His great-grandfather, Henry Osborne Havemeyer and his wife, Louisine Waldron Havemeyer, were also art collectors who bequeathed a large group of their European and Oriental artworks to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nWilmerding was educated at St. Paul's School in New Hampshire and at Harvard University, where he received his A. B. in 1960, his masters in 1961, and his Ph.D. in 1965.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard, he taught art history at Dartmouth College until 1977. From 1977 to 1983 he served as senior curator at the National Gallery of Art, in Washington, DC, and as its Deputy Director under J. Carter Brown from 1983 to 1988. He served as Christopher Binyon Sarofim Professor of American Art at Princeton.\n\nIn 2016, the Walton Family Foundation and Alice Walton granted $10 million to the National Gallery of Art to establish the John Wilmerding Fund for Education in honor of Wilmerding's contribution to the Gallery and art history.\n\nWilmerding began collecting art while still a student at Harvard, purchasing the 1857 painting \"Stage Rocks and Western Shore of Gloucester Outer Harbor\" by Fitz Hugh Lane during his senior year for $3,500. His second purchase was the 1850 painting \"Mississippi Boatman\" by George Caleb Bingham \"which shows a pipe-smoking boatman sitting on top of a crate,\" followed by \"The Newbury Marshes\" by Martin Johnson Heade, circa 1890, which were all donated by Wilmerding to the National Gallery of Art. By 2004, he built a collection of 51 paintings and drawings by acknowledged masters.\n\nAt the May 2004 opening of the National Gallery of Art's exhibit \"American Masters From Bingham to Eakins: The John Wilmerding Collection,\" Wilmerding announced that his entire collection would remain at the Gallery in perpetuity, including works by such artists as Martin Johnson Heade, Fitz Henry Lane, John F. Peto, Joseph Decker, Winslow Homer, Thomas Eakins, Frederic Edwin Church, George Caleb Bingham, and John F. Kensett, and featuring certain of his favorite works by artists who visited and painted Maine's Mount Desert Island in Acadia National Park, where he has summered for many years. His contribution broadened the Gallery's holdings by adding many examples of types of works that the Gallery had not yet managed to acquire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20194781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194781", "title": "Kaii-Yōkai Denshō Database", "text": "Kaii-Yōkai Denshō Database\n\nThe is a database of \"yōkai\" and mystery stories which have been collected from Japanese folklore. The database is published by International Research Center for Japanese Studies. The prototype was created on March 19, 2002, and the first live version was released on June 20, 2002. the project supervisor is Kazuhiko Komatsu (), a Japanese folklorist who is a professor of the study of \"yōkai\".\n\nThe database includes verbal information, without visual information. Data are collected from:\n\nFor each item, in the database has an abstract of around 100 characters. The full text is searchable, and the database can be searched by name or the region where the item was found.\n\n"}
{"id": "68137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68137", "title": "List of abbreviations for medical organisations and personnel", "text": "List of abbreviations for medical organisations and personnel\n"}
{"id": "11448056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11448056", "title": "List of airline codes (Y)", "text": "List of airline codes (Y)\n"}
{"id": "1616707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616707", "title": "List of reporting marks: C", "text": "List of reporting marks: C\n\n"}
{"id": "5348445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5348445", "title": "Livonian Rhymed Chronicle", "text": "Livonian Rhymed Chronicle\n\nThe Livonian Rhymed Chronicle () is a chronicle written in Middle High German by an anonymous author. It covers the period 1180 – 1343 and contains a wealth of detail about Livonia — modern South Estonia and Latvia.\n\nThe \"Rhymed Chronicle\" was composed to be read to the crusading knights of the Livonian Order during their meals. Its primary function was to inspire the knights and legitimise the Northern crusades. As such, it is infused with elements of romance and exaggerated for the purpose of drama. However, this is debated by A. Murray. He suggests that during mealtimes the knights were read sections of the bible or the word of God, so that they could 'receive spiritual as well as corporal nourishment'. There was little of this in the \"Chronicle\". There is also the fact that the \"Chronicle\" is written in high German, and the majority of the knights who were in Livonia at that time would have spoken low German. This would mean that they would have struggled to have understood what was being read to them anyway. Murray argues that due to its imagery used to describe the battles and its focus on military expeditions it is more likely to have served a purpose to appeal to the mentality of those who may have volunteered for service with the Sword Brothers and Teutonic Knights to encourage them to join the orders. \n\nA second rhyme chronicle, known as the \"Younger Livonian Rhymed Chronicle\", was written in Low German by Bartholomäus Hoeneke, chaplain of the Master of the Livonian Order, around the end of the 1340s. It is this chronicle that narrates how Estonians slaughtered their own nobility and called the Livonian Order to Estonia, which, in turn, butchered them, on 1343. The original is lost but prose paraphrases survive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2282527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282527", "title": "Lord Alfred Hayes", "text": "Lord Alfred Hayes\n\nAlfred George James Hayes (8 August 1928 – 21 July 2005) was an English professional wrestler, manager and commentator, best known for his appearances in the United States with the World Wrestling Federation between 1982 and 1995 where he was known as Lord Alfred Hayes. Hayes was distinguished by his \"Masterpiece Theatre diction\" and \"Oxford accent\".\n\nBorn in London, Hayes attended the North-Western Polytechnic, which was evacuated to Luton Modern School during World War II. He attained a black belt in judo before training as a wrestler under Sir Atholl Oakley, Bt. Wrestling as \"Judo\" Al Hayes, he appeared on the British circuit from the late 1950s to the late 1960s, when he left the United Kingdom and travelled to the United States. He was a blue-eye who battled all of the heavyweight heels of his time, and held the Southern Area Heavyweight Championship for a number of years. He traded heavily on his judo background, and specialised with judo chops and nerve holds. His most famous period was when he fought for Paul Lincoln Promotions as The White Angel, with a massive feud against Dr Death. Death eventually won, and unmasked Hayes.\n\nHayes later went to wrestle in America. In 1972, he defeated Dory Funk Jr. for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship but the decision was changed when Funk's father Dory Funk Sr attacked the referee after the match. In a fit of anger, the official disqualified Funk Jr, thus inadvertently returning the title to the champion. Hayes also wrestled in brief stints for his future employer the WWWF, battling Bruno Sammartino for the World Heavyweight Championship on occasion.\n\nWhile wrestling for Sam Muchnick in St. Louis during the mid 1970s, Hayes turned heel and adopted the gimmick of the aristocratic \"Lord Alfred\" Hayes. Hayes adopted the role as a manager after he had decided wrestling was taking a toll on his knees. As this character, Hayes later became a manager in the AWA, Florida and later Montreal, managing fellow Brit Billy Robinson, Baron von Raschke, Jimmy Valiant (whom he rebranded as \"King James\" Valiant) and the Super Destroyers. He became notorious for delivering TV interviews in a sneering aristocratic English accent, often sipping cups of tea and wearing a bow tie and frilly shirt.\n\nDuring this period, Hayes also made a homecoming tour of the United Kingdom, including televised matches. During these bouts, he remained a heel and fought his way through most of his former tag partners. It was explained that Hayes had inherited the dreaded \"American style\" in his adopted country.\n\nHayes reverted to babyface and began a feud with fellow manager Bobby Heenan after an incident in November 1979 where Super Destroyer II fired Hayes and replaced him with Heenan. In other territories however, Hayes remained a heel. In Florida in 1980, Hayes began managing Bobby Jaggers while his regular manager Oliver Humperdink was busy acting as Dusty Rhodes' servant for thirty days (after another protege of his, Ivan Koloff lost a match to Rhodes with that stipulation.) When \"Rooster\" Humperdink, who had become a figure of sympathy during his thirty days servitude, returned to management and attempted to claim back Jaggers, Hayes and another protege Nikolai Volkoff brutally beat on Humperdink, thus starting a feud with Humperdink and Rhodes.\n\nHayes later worked again as a heel manager for Robinson in Lutte Internationale in the early 1980s during Robinson's reign with the Canadian International Heavyweight Championship. Hayes also managed Masked Superstar, around this time.\n\nHayes joined the World Wrestling Federation in 1982. Hayes started as a road agent but then started doing television for McMahon as well, starting work as an interviewer during the December 26, 1983 edition of wrestling at Madison Square Garden. He was a sidekick to Vince McMahon on \"Tuesday Night Titans\", a WWF-style talk show from 1984 to 1986. Hayes became familiar to WWF viewers as a light-spoken Englishman (using a softer accent than during his period as a heel manager) with an uproarious laugh. On \"TNT\", Hayes usually was the victim of several slapsticks; some instances included getting a face-full of powder, being slopped with pumpkin-innards by \"Captain\" Lou Albano, drinking one of Hulk Hogan's diet shakes, then promptly vomiting, being nearly bitten by one of Hillbilly Jim's goats, and getting slapped in the face by \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper. He would later become the introductory announcer on \"Prime Time Wrestling\", on which he would give rousing and complimentary introductions to the face hosts and slightly less flattering but coolly worded intros to Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan. He was once \"taken hostage\" from the show by Sgt. Slaughter and his \"Iraqi\" allies.\n\nHayes appeared at WrestleMania in 1985 where he was the backstage commentator introducing matches and pre-recorded comments by the wrestlers. As Hayes was announcing the upcoming WWF Women's Championship match to the TV audience, he was affectionately kissed on the cheek by his real life friend The Fabulous Moolah as she and her charge, WWF Women's Champion Leilani Kai walked to the ring for Kai's title defence against Wendi Richter (Kai also kissed a visibly blushing Hayes). Moolah would also kiss Hayes full on the lips during an episode of \"Tuesday Night Titans\". At WrestleMania 2, he served as commentator alongside Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura and the \"Mistress of the Dark\" Elvira for the Los Angeles portion of the event. This was the only WWF pay-per-view on which Hayes commentated on the main event (Hulk Hogan vs King Kong Bundy in a steel cage for Hogan's WWF World Heavyweight Championship belt). For the Coliseum Video release of WrestleMania III, Hayes briefly appeared alongside Gorilla Monsoon hyping the event.\n\nAs the WWF's video library began to expand, Hayes became a mainstay in many of the releases; such as \"Etiquette With Lord Alfred Hayes\", a short segment on the WWF World Tour 1991 tape, where he attempted to teach table manners to Sensational Sherri and The Brooklyn Brawler. Another great segment on the tape collections took place on the \"Supertape\" series when Lord Alfred Hayes would voice \"The Call of the Action\" in which a match or two would be slowed down and each manoeuvre named and explained (for instance, the audience could learn what a reverse crescent kick was, long before it became more famously known as \"Sweet Chin Music\"). It was also an example of how as late as 1990 or so, professional wrestling was still presented with \"Kayfabe\", the veneer of reality. He later appeared on the video releases of WrestleMania VII where he had a corny \"Love Story\"-like part regarding the reunion of \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage and his former manager Miss Elizabeth following Savage's career-ending loss to The Ultimate Warrior, WrestleMania VIII, and Royal Rumble 1993 where he famously asked to watch Sensational Sherri put on her stockings while interviewing her in her dressing room, prompting Sherri to mockingly call him a \"dirty old man\". He also appeared on some early episodes of \"Monday Night RAW\"). Wrestlemania VII also saw the last Wrestlemania match called by Hayes when he joined Monsoon in calling the Intercontinental Championship match between champion Mr Perfect and challenger the Big Boss Man. This was due to Monsoon's co-commentator for the event Bobby Heenan being Perfect's manager at the time and he was required to be at ringside.\n\nLord Alfred also appeared on many episodes of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", often performing silly recorded acts with fellow WWF commentator/interviewer \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund. One skit involved Hayes and Okerlund (referred to as \"Jim\" by Hayes despite Okerlund protesting his name was \"Gene\") taking a safari through Africa, encountering many strange sights along the way (Akeem \"The African Dream\" and his manager Slick, Koko B. Ware and his parrot \"Frankie\", The Bushwhackers, and Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts and his pet python \"Damien\").\n\nHayes is known for having spoken the phrase \"Promotional consideration paid for by the following\", which was heard at the end of \"Superstars of Wrestling\" and \"Wrestling Challenge\" syndicated shows. At WrestleMania fan access, fans would ask him to repeat his line.\n\nAs a commentator, Hayes maintained his reserved mannerisms; though not specifically a heel, he would be quicker to give praise to heelish characters, though disapproving of underhanded methods (in one match, after being told by Gorilla Monsoon that the Hart Foundation had \"broken every rule in the book,\" he replied with a conceding \"yes, they've done that\"). He was jokingly referred to by Hulk Hogan as \"Awful Alfred\" during interviews. It was during this time that his hearty uproarious laugh would become his trademark, bursting into laughter after a witty comment by his regular broadcast partner Gorilla Monsoon. He would quietly absorb criticism and insults from heel commentators such as Heenan and The Honky Tonk Man. However, toward the end of his WWF run he quietly shifted to a more heelish style, where he would be quicker to take the sides of heels (such as Owen Hart after he turned on Bret) and quicker to insult the faces (calling Paul Bearer a \"little toad\"). His final famous WWF promo took place in November 1994, when the Headshrinkers did a promo for \"Left Guard Sport stick (a parody of Right Guard Sport Stick)\" and Fatu and Sione (The Headshrinkers) ate the deodorant causing Alfred to keep telling them to stop.\n\nHayes' various roles for the WWF included co-hosting \"All American Wrestling\" with Gene Okerlund and doing commentary for shows at Madison Square Garden with Gorilla Monsoon sporadically from 1984–1990. Hayes' most common broadcast partner was Sean Mooney, whom was paired with Hayes on \"Prime Time Wrestling\", \"WWF Mania\", as well as most all releases for Coliseum Video starting in 1989 until 1993. Hayes and Mooney often participated in comedic skits together, including a \"Star Trek\" parody. Hayes was also the announcer for Bobby Heenan's \"The Bobby Heenan Show\", which aired briefly in the Summer of 1989.\n\nAt one point, he also assisted Edouard Carpentier, Raymond Rougeau and Guy Hauray as a commentator on the French-language broadcasts of the WWF on RDS (Réseau des Sports) in the province of Québec and throughout Canada.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Hayes would later appear as a full-on heel commentator alongside Mick Karch, calling the action in 1996 for the short-lived American Wrestling Federation.\n\nHayes retired from the WWF in 1995 after enduring a series of pay cuts. McMahon and the rest of the office were reportedly very upset at the news as Hayes was someone that they didn't want to lose. Around this time he was also involved in a serious car accident. As a result of the accident he suffered gangrene and part of a leg had to be amputated. Hayes was a wheelchair user for the remainder of his life. He spent the last few years of his life in a retirement home, only venturing out of the home to make appearances at wrestling conventions sporadically. He later suffered a series of strokes and died on 21 July 2005 at his home in Texas. On the first episode of \"Monday Night RAW\" to air after his death, WWE paid tribute to Hayes with a ten-bell salute and a video memorial. On 15 November 2010 \"Old School\" edition of \"Raw\", his voice-over was a part of the broadcast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2338358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338358", "title": "New International Encyclopedia", "text": "New International Encyclopedia\n\nThe New International Encyclopedia was an American encyclopedia first published in 1902 by Dodd, Mead and Company. It descended from the \"International Cyclopaedia\" (1884) and was updated in 1906, 1914 and 1926.\n\nThe \"New International Encyclopedia\" was the successor of the \"International Cyclopaedia\" (1884). Initially, the \"International Cyclopaedia\" was largely a reprint of Alden's \"Library of Universal Knowledge\", which was a reprint of the British \"Chambers's Encyclopaedia\". The title was changed to \"New International Encyclopedia\" in 1902, with editors Harry Thurston Peck, Daniel Coit Gilman, and Frank Moore Colby.\n\nThe encyclopedia was popular and reprints were made in 1904, 1905, 1907 (corrected and expanded to 20 volumes), 1909 and 1911. The 2nd edition appeared from 1914 to 1917 in 24 volumes. With Peck and Gilman deceased, Colby was joined by a new editor, Talcott Williams. This edition was set up from new type and thoroughly revised. It was very strong in biography.\n\nA third edition was published in 1923, however this was mostly a reprint with the addition of a history of the First World War in Vol. 24, which had previously been a reading and study guide. A two volume supplement was published in 1925, and this was incorporated into the 1927 reprint, which had 25 vols. A further 2 vol. supplement in 1930 along with another reprint.\n\nThe final edition was published in 1935, now under the Funk and Wagnall's label. This edition included another updating supplement, authored by Herbert Treadwell Wade. Some material from the \"New International\" would be incorporated into future books published by Funk and Wagnall's books such as \"Funk & Wagnalls Standard Reference Encyclopaedia\".\n\nThe 1926 material was printed in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by Yale University Press. Boston Bookbinding Company of Cambridge produced the covers. Thirteen books enclosing twenty-three volumes comprise the encyclopedia, which includes a supplement after Volume 23. Each book contains about 1600 pages.\n\nLike other encyclopedias of the time, \"New International\" had a yearly supplement, the \"New International Yearbook\", beginning in 1908. Like the encyclopedia itself, this publication was sold to Funk and Wagnalls in 1931. It was edited by Frank Moore Colby until his death in 1925, and then by Wade. In 1937 Frank Horace Vizetelly became editor. The yearbook outlasted the parent encyclopedia, running to 1966.\n\nMore than 500 men, and some women, submitted and composed the information contained in the \"New International Encyclopedia\".\n\nEditors of the First Edition\n\nEditors of the Second Edition\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27730220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27730220", "title": "Oxford Dictionary of English", "text": "Oxford Dictionary of English\n\nThe Oxford Dictionary of English (ODE) is a single-volume English dictionary published by Oxford University Press, first published in 1998 as The New Oxford Dictionary of English (NODE). The word \"new\" was dropped from the title with the Second Edition in 2003. This dictionary is not based on the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and should not be mistaken for a new or updated version of the OED. It is a completely new dictionary which strives to represent as faithfully as possible the current usage of English words.\n\nThe Revised Second Edition contains 355,000 words, phrases, and definitions, including biographical references and thousands of encyclopaedic entries. The Third Edition was published in August 2010, with some new words, including \"vuvuzela\".\n\nIt is currently the largest single-volume English-language dictionary published by Oxford University Press.\n\nThe first editor, Judy Pearsall, wrote in the introduction that it is based on a modern understanding of language and is derived from a corpus of contemporary English usage. For example, the editors did not discourage split infinitives, but instead justified their use in some contexts. The first edition was based on bodies of texts such as the British National Corpus and the citation database of the Oxford Reading Programme.\n\nThe dictionary \"views the language from the perspective that English is a world language\". A network of consultants provide extensive coverage of English usage from the United States to the Caribbean and New Zealand.\n\nA more unusual decision was to omit pronunciations of common, everyday words, contrary to the practice of most large dictionaries. The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is used to present pronunciations, which are in turn based on the Received Pronunciation.\n\nThe Second Edition added over 3,000 new words, senses and phrases drawn from the Oxford English Corpus.\n\nThe \"New Oxford American Dictionary\" is the American version of the \"Oxford Dictionary of English\", with substantial editing and uses a diacritical respelling scheme rather than the IPA system.\n\n\n\n\nIt is a compilation that includes \"Oxford Dictionaries of English and Concise Oxford Thesaurus\".\n\nIt is a dictionary app based on contents from \"Oxford Dictionary of English\" and \"New Oxford American Dictionary\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46236750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46236750", "title": "Prague City Archives", "text": "Prague City Archives\n\nThe Prague City Archives () is one of the departments of the Prague City Hall. It collects, preserves, processes and makes available archival materials documenting the historical development of Prague since the Middle Ages up to the present. Together with the National Archives of the Czech Republic the Prague City Archives is one of the largest and most important archives in Bohemia. \n\nThe Prague City Archives was founded as an independent specialized institution in 1851. Since that time it was located on the ground floor of the Old Town Hall. During the fire of the Old Town Hall on 8 May 1945 a part of the archive funds were destroyed, but fortunately the majority of the historical documents were evacuated outside Prague. After the end of the war the archives was housed in the Clam-Gallas Palace in the Old Town of Prague. The palace was soon unable to accommodate the wealth of material, therefore the archives were housed in eight different buildings, some of them were located outside Prague. The new archive building was built in 1997 in the Prague district of Chodov. The Clam-Gallas Palace serves today as venue for cultural event and conferences organized by the Prague City Archives.\n\nThe archives currently administers 19,000 meters in length of archive material and 3,000 meters of books, newspapers and magazines. The collection of manuscripts contains 8,427 official books relating to the four medieval Prague towns and several hundred literary, religious and scientific or academic manuscripts. It has a collection of over 200,000 parchments and paper documents. The archives has also a large library containing over 150,000 oriented chiefly towards the history of Prague and its present-day life.\n\nThe oldest document kept in the archives is the so-called \"Bohnice Authentica\" from 1158.\n\n"}
{"id": "29051386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29051386", "title": "Reference implementation", "text": "Reference implementation\n\nIn the software development process, a reference implementation (or, less frequently, sample implementation or model implementation) is the standard from which all other implementations and corresponding customizations are derived. An improvement to a reference implementation reflects an unchanging specification. Conversely, a failed attempt at an implementation may prove that the specification is not suitable and needs improvement itself. Testing the implementation-vs.-specification relationship further enhances the production's inter-process efficiencies:\n\nReference implementations of algorithms, for instance cryptographic algorithms, are often the result or the input of standardization processes. In this function they are often dedicated to the public domain with their source code as public domain software. Examples are the first CERN's httpd, Serpent cipher, base64 variants, and SHA-3. The Openwall Project maintains a list of several algorithms with their reference source code in the public domain.\n\nA reference implementation may or may not be production quality. For example, the Fraunhofer reference implementation of the MP3 standard usually does not compare favorably to other common implementations, such as LAME, in listening tests that determine sound quality. In contrast, CPython, the reference implementation of the Python programming language, is also the implementation most widely used in production.\n"}
{"id": "7478869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7478869", "title": "Rose Seidler House", "text": "Rose Seidler House\n\nRose Seidler House is a heritage-listed former residence and now house museum located at 69-71 Clissold Road in the Sydney suburb of Wahroonga in the Ku-ring-gai Council local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was designed by Harry Seidler and built from 1948 to 1950 by Bret R. Lake. It is also known as In neighbourhood precinct with Marcus Seidler House and Teplitzky House or Rose House. The property is owned by the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage, an agency of the Government of New South Wales. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe Bauhaus-styled house was designed for both of Seidler's parents – Rose and Max Seidler, however since Rose Seidler was the person who initiated and drove the commission, making all the main client decisions, the house is named after only her.\n\nIn 1855 to 1856 the NSW Lands Department put up for Crown land auction a large area from St Ives Public School to the present Clissold road, Wahroonga that included the Rose Seidler House site. For twenty years not one lot was sold and in 1877 the whole area was bought by William Billyard. After passing through several hands undeveloped, the mortgagee, The Sydney Land Bank and Financial Agency Co came into possession of it and subdivided the whole area into 38 allotments of in 1893 and was called the \"Pymble View Estate.\"\n\nDuring the turn of the century the more accessible areas attracted the attention of the developing middle class who were seeking property suitable for large houses and generous gardens in bushland settings. In the more inaccessible pockets such as Clissold Road, tradespeople and gardeners established market and flower gardens, orchards, dairies and poultry frams with an array of homebuilt shacks and sheds.\n\nThe gazettal of the Cumberland County Plan in 1951 led to the promoting of neighbourhood areas whilst retaining open space and green belts. This planning scheme led to a new wave of developers and middle class professionals who were attracted to the bushland settings and vistas for architect-designed homes.\n\nIn 1948 Harry Seidler arrived in Sydney to build a house for his parents and decided upon Clissold Road. The Seidler family purchased for A£500. Seidler had envisaged a family estate. He strategically sited three houses which were flanked by an S shaped driveway. There was provision for a swimming pool and communal areas in the centre of the triangle formed by the houses. The communal housing estate was surrounded by vegetable gardens and indigenous bush.\n\nRose Seidler house was built between 1948 and 1950. By 1952 the had been divided into three lots and by 1956 Marcus Seidler House and Rose House had been completed. The Seidler family lived here for the next twenty years. During this time subdivisions occurred and in the late 1960s Harry Seidlers parents passed away. Rose Seidler House was leased out until 1980. In 1981 Harry Seidler renovated the interior and exterior of the house.\n\nIn 1988 Harry Seidler officially handed over Rose Seidler House to the Minister Administering the Heritage Act. The property was leased to the Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales (now called Sydney Living Museums) for use as a public house museum. The museum is open to the public each Sunday since 1991.\n\nRose Seidler House is part of Harry Seidler's conceptual planning of a family compound of three modernist houses, inspired by north-east American prototypes. The relationship of architecture with landscape, the house in a cleared space with few, deliberately-retained eucalypts, demonstrates one of the principal tenets of modernism - the contrast between man-made object and nature (order/disorder) - the built form set against space and time.\n\nHowever the garden that evolved around one of Australia's iconic prototypal modernist houes became an expression of the recent immigrant Rose Seidler's personal creativity. It was both typically suburban in the choice of planting and idiosyncrathic in the integration of terraced citrus orchard with ornamental plants. Mrs Seidler particularly delighted in growing plants that she could not possibly have grown in Vienna or in England: frangipani (\"Plumeria rubra\"), oranges, port wine magnolia (\"Michelia figo\") and Queensland firewheel tree (\"Stenocarpus sinuatus\"). The story of the garden adds a layer of richness to the interpretation of the house.\n\nThree garden characteristics are present on the site. There is indigenous bushland still covering large sections of the site. But modern landscaping of the driveway and the immediate area around the house, rough stone retaining walls and ramp. The resident gardening of Rose Seidler permeates the site and subtlety infiltrates both the native bushland and the modern landscaping.\n\nRose Seidler House is a modern two-storey, 12 room house sited on of suburban bushland with intact gardens. The house is constructed of four basic materials; natural bush stone, reinforced concrete, timber and glass.\n\nBuilt in 1949-1950 in the International modernist style, it was futuristic and modern for Australia at that time, and is an outstanding example of mid-century-modern domestic architecture. In 1991, Harry Seidler described the house's spatial design which was characteristic of his approach in the rest of his life's work: \nFollowing the example of the houses he had worked on in Breuer's office in 1946-48 which were located on compounds next to a public nature reserve in North-East USA, Seidler picked the site for the house because it was next to Ku-Ring-Gai Chase reserve. In 1948, the site had been used to mine pottery clay, and was considered very remote - being at the end of a dirt road through market gardens. It was long after the house was finished that the surrounding streets were paved and developed as a residential suburb.\n\nThe ground floor is elevated to the north and east sides. The stone foundations provide three walls of the double garage. A large recreation area on the north side is partially sheltered by the ramp and sundeck of the first floor. The two storey open well filters light through to this area. A caretaker's flat is located at the end of the recreation area.\n\nThe main entrance door is via a small foyer. Stairs lead up to the first floor and the comforts of a fireplace and a magnificent vista of the Ku-ring-gai bushland through a wall of glass. There are four inter-related features of the interior planning scheme.\n\nEach room except the main bathroom has a full view, bringing the outside, inside. There are full glass walls in the living, dining, playroom and 3 bedrooms; above waist height windows in the kitchen, laundry and main bedroom and above shoulder height in the en-suite bathroom. Direct or close contact to related outdoor areas is available for each room.\n\nThe bi-nuclear plan clearly separates living areas from sleeping and bathrooms. These are connected by the flexible transitional zones of the playroom and deck.\n\nSpatial freedom and flexibility of spaces is maximised and achieved by the arrangement of functional and temporary dividers that redefine spaces according to their use.\n\nThe minimal interiors aim to produce visual tension or counterpoint through \"tensional opposition\" of recurrent elements, forms, planes, colours, and materials. The smooth neutral plaster walls counterpoint the rough texture of the sandstone.\n\nAs at 24 September 1997, the physical condition was excellent. Archaeological potential is low.\n\nIn 1948 structural plans were completed and construction commenced. Completed in 1950. First major renovations were undertaken in 1971 including recarpeting, repainting and some new electrical and bathroom fittings. A second major renovation was undertaken in 1981 which included exterior maintenance and interior redecorating. The third major renovation was undertaken in 1988.\n\nAs at 8 December 2008, Rose Seidler House is historically significant as a resource to demonstrate the many features of Modernist art, architecture and design theory and practice. It is one of the finest and purest examples of mid-century modern domestic architecture in Australia as designed by the second generation of twentieth century Modern architects. It also contains intact contents of late 1940s furniture by such renown designers as Eames, Saarinen and Hardoy. Rose Seidler House is socially significant because of its influence on the character of domestic architecture in New South Wales, not only by direct imitators in the 1950s but on the thinking of architects and architectural practice in subsequent decades. It is technically significant for its design detailing and choice of construction methods and materials which highlight aspects of postwar housing construction in a period of conservative building regulations, scarcity of materials, skills and industrial processes. The house incorporates many examples of modern domestic technology and commercial products which were introduced into Australia at this time. These include electric appliances, labour saving devices, materials, fittings and storage systems.\n\nFor more information see .\n\nRose Seidler House was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nRose Seidler House is historically significant as a resource to demonstrate the many features of Modernist art, architecture and design theory and practice.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nRose Seidler House is one of the finest and purest examples of mid-century modern domestic architecture in Australia. A product of the second generation of twentieth century Modern architects. Rose Seidler House contains intact contents of the late 1940s furniture by such renown designers as Eames, Saarin and Hardoy.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nRose Seidler House is socially significant because of its influence on the character of domestic architecture in New South Wales, not only in direct imitators in the 1950s but on the thinking of acrhitects and architectural practice in subsequent decades.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nRose Seidler House is technically significant for its design detailing and choice of construction methods and materials highlighting aspects of postwar housing construction in a period of conservative building regulations, scarcity of materials, skills and industrial process. The house incorporates many examples of modern domestic technology and commercail products that demonstrate the introduction of electric appliances, labour saving devices, materials, fittings and storage systems into Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16431518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16431518", "title": "Russian State Archive of Literature and Art", "text": "Russian State Archive of Literature and Art\n\n"}
{"id": "284170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284170", "title": "Table of contents", "text": "Table of contents\n\nA table of contents, usually headed simply Contents and abbreviated informally as TOC, is a list, usually found on a page before the start of a written work, of its chapter or section titles or brief descriptions with their commencing page numbers.\n\nPliny the Elder credits Quintus Valerius Soranus (d. 82 B.C.) as the first author to provide a table of contents to help readers navigate a lengthy work. Pliny's own table of contents for his encyclopedic \"Historia naturalis\" (\"Natural History\") may be viewed online in Latin and in English (following dedication).\n\nA table of contents usually includes the titles or descriptions of first-level headings (\"chapters\" in longer works), and often includes second-level headings (\"sections\" or \"A-heads\") within the chapters as well, and occasionally even includes third-level headings (\"subsections\" or \"B-heads\") within the sections as well. The depth of detail in tables of contents depends on the length of the work, with longer works having less. Formal reports (ten or more pages and being too long to put into a memo or letter) also have a table of contents. Within an English-language book, the table of contents usually appears after the title page, copyright notices, and, in technical journals, the abstract; and before any lists of tables or figures, the foreword, and the preface.\n\nPrinted tables of contents indicate page numbers where each part starts, while digital ones offer links to go to each part. The format and location of the page numbers is a matter of style for the publisher. If the page numbers appear after the heading text, they might be preceded by characters called \"leaders\", usually dots or periods, that run from the chapter or section titles on the opposite side of the page, or the page numbers might remain closer to the titles. In some cases, the page number appears before the text.\n\nIf a book or document contains chapters, articles, or stories by different authors, their names usually appear in the table of contents.\n\nMatter preceding the table of contents is generally not listed there. However, all pages except the outside cover are counted, and the table of contents is often numbered with a lowercase Roman numeral page number. Many popular word processors, such as Microsoft Word, WordPerfect, and StarWriter are capable of automatically generating a table of contents if the author of the text uses specific styles for chapters, sections, subsections, etc.\n\nExample with leaders:\n\nExample without leaders:\n\nExample with authors:\n\nExample with descriptive text:\n\n"}
{"id": "18007037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18007037", "title": "The YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe", "text": "The YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe\n\nThe YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe is a two-volume, English-language reference work on the history and culture of Eastern Europe Jewry in this region, prepared by the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research and published by Yale University Press in 2008.\n\nThe Encyclopedia, 2,400 pages in length, contains over 1,800 alphabetical entries written by 450 contributors, and features over 1,000 illustrations and 55 maps.\n\nThe online version of the Encyclopedia was officially launched June 10, 2010. It's free to access online.\n\n\nEditor-in-Chief: Gershon David Hundert, McGill University <br>\nEditorial Board:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7187385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7187385", "title": "Theorizing about Myth", "text": "Theorizing about Myth\n\nTheorizing about Myth is a 1999 book by the University of Aberdeen religious studies scholar Robert A. Segal that offers an alternative interpretation of the Adonis myth. In Chapter VII, \"Adonis: A Greek Eternal Child\", he puts forth his theory of Adonis, not as a vegetation god but as an archetype of the eternal child, the Jungian puer. \n\nIn Segal's interpretation, based on the work of Carl Jung, Adonis lives as \"a psychological infant, ultimately, as a fetus\". He lives under the spell of the Great Mother archetype and can only live through her. His ego is weak and he seeks to remain surrendered to her.\n\nHe can put down no roots of his own. He is unable to take on the institutions of work and family which connects one to the community because he is retarded psychologically. He is childlike and a childish puer won't be tied down. He avoids commitment and craves excitement. He is sexually promiscuous because he can never find his fantasy mate. Ultimately he is attached to the archetype of The Great Mother. All women are either manifestations of the mother or unworthy and inferior. \n\nSegal mentions Elvis Presley as the \"consummate mamma's boy who lived the last twenty years as a recluse in a womblike, infantile world in which all of his wishes were immediately satisfied yet who deemed himself entirely normal, in fact 'all-American'\".\n\nIn Segal's view, the puer is the opposite archetype of the hero: the hero succeeds where the puer fails, finds a wife and a job, takes risks for those things to which he is committed. The puer commits to nothing so he risks nothing. He has no independent ego so he cannot lose it.\n\nTurning to the myth itself, Segal notes that immediately after his birth when Adonis emerges from the tree, Aphrodite puts him into a chest thereby undoing his birth so that she can possess him. Next, Persephone opens the chest, sees him and wants him for herself. Each gets him for four months of the year Zeus grants him freedom for the remaining four months. However, Adonis immediately gives up his freedom to Aphrodite, placing himself in the custody of the mother archetypes.\n\nSegal says that a Jungian interpretation of the myth could face the same difficulty as the Frazerian interpretation which is that it must take into account the fact that he eventually dies permanently. Says Segal, \"Where a normal child needs to be born only once to liberate himself from the mother, Adonis, as puer, continually returns to the mother and so must be born again and again. His final death is simply his permanent rather temporary return to her\".\n\nSegal goes on to explain how Adonis speaks of a distinctively Greek society in which the goal of young men was to become active, participating citizens. Adonis is the archetype of what not to become. \n"}
{"id": "45283567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45283567", "title": "Uniacke Estate Museum Park", "text": "Uniacke Estate Museum Park\n\nUniacke Estate Museum Park in centred on the home of Richard John Uniacke at Mount Uniacke (c.1813). The Uniacke house is a member institution of the Nova Scotia Museum.\n\nThe museum houses portraits which belonged in the Uniacke family by the leading American artists of the era:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45014270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45014270", "title": "Wrightson Ltd MREINZ v Clapham", "text": "Wrightson Ltd MREINZ v Clapham\n\nWrightson Ltd MREINZ v Clapham is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the common law remedy of rectification.\n"}
{"id": "48956309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48956309", "title": "Zilin", "text": "Zilin\n\nThe Zilin (; c. 350) or Forest of Characters was a Chinese dictionary compiled by the Jin dynasty (265–420) lexicographer Lü Chen (呂忱). It contained 12,824 character head entries, organized by the 540-radical system of the \"Shuowen Jiezi\". In the history of Chinese lexicography, the \"Zilin\" followed the \"Shuowen Jiezi\" (121; with 9,353 character entries) and preceded the \"Yupian\" (c. 543; with 12,158 entries).\n\nLü Chen compiled the \"Zilin\" to supplement the \"Shuowen jiezi\", and included more the 3,000 uncommon and variant Chinese characters. Yong and Peng (2008: 186) describe the \"Zilin\" as a \"more influential character dictionary\" than the \"Shuowen jiezi\".\nLü Chen's younger brother Lü Jing (呂靜) was also a lexicographer, who compiled the \"Yunji\" (韻集; \"Assembly of Rimes\"; c. 280). Other than their dictionaries, little is known about either brother.\n\nThe title \"Zilin\", translated as \"Forest of Characters\" (Zhou and Zhang 2003: 72) or \"The Character Forest\" (Yong and Peng 2008), combines \"zì\" 字 \"character; script; writing; graph\" and \"lín\" 林 \"forest; woods; grove; group; collection of literary works; many; numerous\". Titles of several Japanese dictionaries adapted this \"rin\" 林 \"forest\" metaphor, such as \"Daijirin\" (大辞林; \"Great Forest of Words\", 1988) and \"Dai Kangorin\" (大漢語林; \"Great Forest of Chinese\"; 1992).\n\nThe \"Zilin\" was popular in the Northern and Southern dynasties period (420–589), when \"lexicography in China entered the stage of exploration and development. There were more new dictionary types coming into being and discoveries were waiting to be made in format and style, in mode of definition, and in phonetic notation.\" (Yong and Peng 2008: 275).\n\nDuring the Liu Song dynasty (420-479), Wu Gongceng (吳恭曾) from Yang Province compiled the first commentary to the \"Zilin\", the \"Zilin yinyi\" (字林音義; \"Pronunciations and Meanings in the \"Zilin\"\") in 5 volumes. \n\nJiang Shi (江式) was a renowned calligrapher and epigraphist during the Northern Wei (386–535) dynasty. His biography in the \"Book of Wei\" (554) history included the \"Lunshu biao\" (論書表; \"Memorial on Calligraphy\"; 514), in which Jiang Shi described the \"Zilin\". When Prince of Yiyang (r. 349-350) was enfeoffed at Rencheng (任城) commandery (present-day Yanzhou District), Lü Chen presented the \"Zilin\" in 6 volumes. \nIt generally follows the example of the [\"Shuowen jiezi\"]. It cites extensively and identifies and differentiates ancient characters, characters of the \"zhou\" style, odd characters, and characters easily confusable. Its writing style is the standardized official script of the Han Dynasty. It has, to a large extent, captured the essence of \"xiaozhuan\". (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 186) \n\"Zhòuwén\" (籀文; \"Large Seal Script\") and \"xiǎozhuàn\" (小篆; \"Small Seal Script\") were archaic forms of Chinese calligraphy. Thus, the \"Zilin\" followed the \"Shuowen jiezi\" format of giving the head character entry in Small Seal Script and the definition in clerical script.\n\nThe Northern Qi dynasty (550-577) scholar Yan Zhitui's (581) \"Yanshi jiaxun\" (顏氏家訓; \"Family Instructions of the Yan Clan\") referred to the usefulness of consulting the \"Zilin\". After accompanying the Emperor on a tour, Yan Zhitui wanted to look up the origins and archaic pronunciations of two obscure place names, but could not find the answers in any books, until he checked the \"Zilin\" and \"Yunji\" character dictionaries (Yong and Peng 2008: 186). Yan Zhitui also referred to Lü Chen (without the \"Zilin\" title) in stressing the importance of character dictionaries (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 186-187). \"Words and characters are fundamental. For students nowadays, they rarely have a better knowledge of characters: when they read the Five Classics\" they follow the civil official Xu Miao rather than the lexicographer Xu Shen, \"and when they practice writing \"fu\"-poems,\" they believed in the \"Chuci\" poet Qu Yuan's interpretations but neglected Lü Chen's. \n\nThe \"Book of Sui\" (636), the official Sui dynasty (581–618) history, \"Biography of Pan Hui\" (潘徽) criticized the \"Cangjiepian\" and \"Jijiupian\" character primers and \"Shuowen jiezi\" and \"Zilin\" character dictionaries and praised the \"Shenglei\" and \"Yunji\" rime dictionaries.\nPrevious works like \"Three Cang Primer\" [三蒼] and \"The Instant Primer\" [急就] have merely retained some texts and quotations; those like \"An Explanatory Dictionary of Chinese Characters\" [說文] and \"The Character Forest\" [字林] only focus on differentiating the form and structure of characters. As for the study of speech sounds and rhymes, there is much doubt and confusion. Either through speculation on ancient characters or interpretation of contemporary ones, the investigations have mostly missed the target. It is in \"The Dictionary of Initial Consonants\" [聲類] and \"The Collection of Rhymes\" [韻集] that the voiceless is differentiated from the voiced and the tones are demarcated in five scales [始判清濁才分宮羽]. (76, tr. Yong and Feng 2008: 161) \nThe \"Book of Sui\" \"Bibliography\" section includes Lü Chen's \"Zilin\" in 7 volumes and Wu Gongceng's \"Zilin yinyi\" (字林音義) in 5 volumes.\n\nUp through the Tang dynasty (618–907), the \"Zilin\" \"was considered as important as the \"Shuowen jiezi\", but it was later lost (McNair 1995: 264). Yan Yuansun (顏元孫; d. 732), the Tang author of \"Ganlu Zishu\" \"Lexicon for Seeking a Salary\", used the \"Zilin\" as a source for determining the \"zheng\" 正 \"correct\" (suitable for government examinations) forms of characters.\n\nThe \"Fengshi wenjianji\" (封氏聞見記; \"Master Feng's Record of Knowledge\"; c. 770), written by the Tang dynasty scholar Feng Yan (封演), described the \"Zilin\" in a list of early Chinese dictionaries (, cf. Yong and Feng 2008: 244). During the Jin dynasty, Lü Chen sought out unusual characters and compiled the \"Zilin\" in 7 volumes, following the [\"Shuowen jiezi\" system of] 540 radicals, it included 12,824 characters. Among all the \"Shuowen jiezi\"-based dictionaries, Lü Chen's was the most beneficial.\n\nThe last remaining copies of the \"Zilin\" were lost before the Song dynasty (960-1279). The \"Book of Song\" (1493) only mentions this dictionary once. A discussion of different vehicle types (18, 禮五) quotes the \"Zilin\" that a \"píngchē\" (軿車; \"curtained carriage\") had cloth curtains but no rear \"yuán\" (轅; \"(cart/carriage) shaft\"), while a \"zīchē\" (輜車; \"ancient covered wagon\") had a rear shaft.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty (1644-1911), scholars collected surviving fragments of the \"Zilin\" and quotations in other books. For example, the \"Kangxi Dictionary\" (1716) quotes its definitions and pronunciations over 180 times. Ren Dazhuang (任大樁；1738-1789) compiled the 8-volume \"Zilin kaoyi\" (字林考逸; \"Examining the Lost \"Zilin\"\") in, and Tao Fangqi (陶方琦; 1845-1884) compiled the \"Zilin kaoyi buben\" (字林考逸補本; \"Supplement to Examining the Lost \"Zilin\"\").\n\n\n"}
